                                         ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to fibronectin-based scaffold domain proteins that bind to
myostatin. The invention also relates to the use of these proteins in therapeutic applications
to treat muscular dystrophy, cachexia, sarcopenia, osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, diabetes,
obesity, COPD, chronic kidney disease, heart failure, myocardial infarction, and fibrosis.
The invention further relates to cells comprising such proteins, polynucleotides encoding
such proteins or fragments thereof, and to vectors comprising the polynucleotides encoding
the proteins.
                                               172

                       FIBRONECTIN BASED SCAFFOLD DOMAIN
                          PROTEINS THAT BIND TO MYOSTATIN
                        REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
This application claims priority to United States Provisional Application No. 61/700,697
entitled "Fibronectin based scaffold domain proteins that bind to myostatin" filed on
September 13, 2012, and United States Provisional Application No. 61/780,005 entitled
"Fibronectin based scaffold domain proteins that bind to myostatin" filed March 13, 2013,
the entirety of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application 2013315482 filed
12 September 2013.
                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to fibronectin-based scaffold domain proteins that bind
myostatin. The invention also relates to the use of the innovative proteins in therapeutic
applications to treat muscle-wasting diseases and metabolic disorders. The invention further
relates to cells comprising such proteins, polynucleotides encoding such proteins or
fragments thereof, and to vectors comprising the polynucleotides encoding the innovative
proteins.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Myostatin, also known as growth and differentiation factor-8 (GDF-8), is a member of the
transforming growth factor-p (TGF-p) superfamily of secreted growth factors. Myostatin has
all of the structural features common to the TGF-p family proteins: a hydrophobic amino
terminus that acts as a secretory signal, nine invariant cysteine residues, and an "RXXR"
furin-type proteolytic processing site. Proteolytic cleavage of the protein gives rise to a C
terminal domain which forms a homodimer that is the biologically active form of myostatin
(Thies et al., Growth Factors2001;18(4):251-9). Alignments of the C-terminal fragment of
myostatin amino acid sequences from multiple vertebrate species reveal that the protein is
                                                 1

highly conserved (100% identity) between human, monkey, cow, dog, mouse, rat, turkey and
chicken (McPherron, et al. PNAS, 94:12457-61, 1997).
Myostatin expression is limited primarily to skeletal muscle and adipose tissue, where it has
been shown to be a negative regulator of skeletal muscle development (Lee LS, Immunol
EndocrMetabAgents Med Chem. 2010;10:183-194).              In mammals, skeletal muscle appears
to be the principal target tissue of myostatin, where it binds to cell-surface receptors, leading
to muscle loss. Mice and cattle with genetic deficiencies in myostatin exhibit dramatic
increases in skeletal muscle mass, i.e., the "double muscling" phenotype, therefore supporting
the role of myostatin in suppressing muscle growth (McPherron and Lee, Proc Natl Acad Sci
USA. 2003 Dec 23;100(26):15842-6). Muscle hypertrophy in Belgian Blue and
Piedmontese cattle breeds is due to a missense mutation within the third exon of the bovine
myostatin gene (Bass et. al., Domest Anim Endocrinol. 1999;17(2-3):191-7). Transgenic
overexpression of myostatin inhibitors also results in hyper-muscularity. Enhanced muscle
growth in these animals is due to an increase in both cell number, or hyperplastic growth, and
cell size, or hypertrophic growth, which results in larger and heavier myofibers. Increased
skeletal muscle mass due to a myostatin mutation has also been reported in humans.
Myostatin inhibition effectively increases skeletal muscle mass and strength, both in the
postnatal period and in adults.
Increases in skeletal muscle mass and strength are also associated with metabolic adaptations
which positively affect body composition, energy expenditure, glucose homeostasis and
insulin requirements. Both genetic and pharmacological findings indicate that myostatin
regulates energy metabolism and that its inhibition can significantly attenuate the progression
of metabolic diseases, including obesity and diabetes. For example, myostatin null mice
exhibit decreased body fat accumulation (McPherron & Lee, J. JCI 109:595, 2002) when
compared with wild type mice of the same age. This reduction in body fat is a manifestation
of reduced adipocyte number and size, implicating a significant role of myostatin in
adipogenesis as well as in myogenesis.
Accordingly, myostatin is a desirable target for therapeutic or prophylactic intervention for
the treatment of disorders or conditions which would benefit from an increase in muscle
mass, muscle strength and/or metabolism (e.g., muscular dystrophy, frailty, disuse atrophy
and cachexia), disorders associated with muscle wasting (e.g., renal disease, cardiac failure or
disease, and liver disease), and metabolic disorders (e.g., Type II diabetes, metabolic
syndrome, obesity and osteoarthritis).
                                                 2

Accordingly, it would be advantageous to obtain improved fibronectin domain scaffold
proteins that bind myostatin for the therapeutic treatment of, e.g., metabolic disorders, muscle
wasting disorders, and muscle loss due to inactivity.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present invention is based, at least in part, on the discovery of Adnectins that bind to and
antagonize myostatin. Specifically, the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the present invention
inhibit myostatin activity, thereby affecting downstream SMAD signaling. One mechanism
accounting for altered SMAD signaling of some of the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the
invention involves the inhibition of Alk4 recruitment to the myostatin-ActRIlb complex, the
physiological consequences of which are increased muscle volume and body weight.
In one aspect, the invention provides a polypeptide comprising a fibronectin tenth type III
domain (10Fn3) wherein the 10Fn3 has at least one loop selected from loop BC, DE, and FG
with an altered amino acid sequence relative to the sequence of the corresponding loop of the
human 10Fn3 domain, and wherein the polypeptide binds myostatin. In certain embodiments,
the polypeptide binds myostatin with a KD of less than 500 nM.
In some embodiments, the BC loop of the polypeptide of the invention comprises an amino
acid sequence according to the formula X 1-L-P-X 2-X 3-X 4-X5 -X6 -X 7, wherein (a) Xi is
selected from the group consisting of S, T and Y; (b) X2 is selected from the group consisting
of H, Y, N, R, F, G, S and T; (c) X 3 is selected from the group consisting of A, P, Q, S, F, H,
N and R; (d) X4 is selected from the group consisting of G and A; (e) X5 is selected from the
group consisting of H, L, R, V, N, D, F, I and K; (f) X6 is selected from the group consisting
of A, L, G, M, F, I and V; and (g) X7 is selected from the group consisting of H and N. In
certain embodiments, X1 is S, and/or X2 is H or Y, and/or X3 is A or P, and/or X4 is G, and/or
X5 is H, L or R, and/or X6 is A or L., and/or X7 is H.
In other embodiments, the BC loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the
formula X 19-X 20-P-X 2 1-G-X 22 -A, wherein (a) X19 is selected from the group consisting of D,
E, V and W; (b) X20 is selected from the group consisting of A, S and V; (c) X21 is selected
from the group consisting of R, A, G, K and L; and (d) X22 is selected from the group
consisting of L and R. In certain embodiments, X19 is D, and/or X20 is A, S or V, and/or X22
is L.
                                                  3

In some embodiments, the DE loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the
formula G-R-G-X 8 , wherein Xs is V or L.
In some embodiments, the DE loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the
formula X 2 3 -G-R-G-X 2 4 , wherein (a) X 2 3 is selected from the group consisting of V, P, F, I
and L; and (b) X2 4 is selected from the group consisting of S, N and T.
In some embodiments, the FG loop of the polypeptide of the invention comprises an amino
acid sequence according to the formula X9-Xio-XII-XI2-X3-X14-X5-X6-X17-X8, wherein (a)
X9 is selected from the group consisting of L, V and I; (b) X1o is selected from the group
consisting of T and S; (c) X1 I is selected from the group consisting of K, R, A, G, S, D, H, N,
T and P; (d) X12 is selected from the group consisting of S, T, A, E, H, K and N; (e) X 13 is
selected from the group consisting of K, G, Q, D, E, N, T and S; (f) X 14 is selected from the
group consisting of V, I, F, L, M, P, T and Y; (g) X 15 is selected from the group consisting of
I, L and Y; (h) X 16 is selected from the group consisting of H, I, V, K, L, R, F, G, S and T; (i)
X17 is selected from the group consisting of Y and H; and () Xis is selected from the group
consisting of K, M, L, R and V.
In certain embodiments, X9 is L or V, and/or Xio is T, Xii is K or R, and/or X12 is S or T,
and/or X13 is K, G or Q, and/or X 14 is V or I, and/or X15 is I, and/or X16 is H, I or V, and/or
X17 is Y and/or Xis is K or M.
In other embodiments, the FG loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the
formula X 25 -X 2 6-R-X 2 7 -G-X 2 8 -X 29 -X 30 -X 3 1-X 32 , wherein (a) X 25 is selected from the group
consisting of I and V; (b) X26 is selected from the group consisting of F, D and Y; (c) X 2 7 is
selected from the group consisting of D and T; (d) X28 is selected from the group consisting
of P, M, V and T; (e) X 29 is selected from the group consisting of V, L, N, R and S; (f) X 30 is
selected from the group consisting of H, T, L, N,               Q and S; (g) X 3 1 is selected from the group
consisting of F, W, Y, H and L; and (h) X32 is selected from the group consisting of D, A and
G.
In certain embodiments, X 25 is 1, and/or X 26 is F, and/or X27 is D, and/or X 28 is P, and/or X 29
is V, and/or X30 is H or T, and/or X 3 1 is F or W, and/or X 3 2 is D.
In some embodiments, the polypeptide comprises a BC loop and a DE loop, or a BC loop and
FG loop, or a DE loop and an FG loop, or a BC loop, a DE loop and an FG loop.
In some embodiments, the BC loop of the polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence
selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 7-38. In other embodiments, the DE loop
                                                           4

comprises an amino acid selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 39-45. In yet
other embodiments, the FG loop comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group
consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 46-79. In some embodiments, the BC, DE, or FG loop amino
acid sequence is at least 80% identical to any one of SEQ ID NOs: 7-38, 39-45, and 46-79,
respectively. In other embodiments, the polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence that
is at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, or 99% identical to any one of SEQ ID NOs: 80-123,
228-239, and 252-273. In yet other embodiments, the polypeptide comprises an amino acid
sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 80-123, 228-239, and 252-273.
In some embodiments, the polypeptides comprise the BC, DE, and FG loop combinations as
shown in Table 1. In one embodiment, the polypeptide has the BC, DE, and FG loops as set
forth in SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively.
In some embodiments, the polypeptide comprises the BC, DE, and FG loops as set forth in
SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, wherein the BC loop has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 amino
acid substitutions, such as conservative amino acid substitutions. In some embodiments, the
BC loop has an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 33-L-P-X 3 4-X 35-X 36-X 3 7-X 3 8
X 39, wherein X 3 3 is T or Y; X 34 is Y, N, R, F, G, S, or T; X 35 is A, P, S, F, H, N, or R; X 36 is
A; X37 is H, L, R, V, N, D, F, or 1; X3 8 is L, G, M, F, I, or V; and X 3 9 is H.
In some embodiments, the polypeptide comprises the BC, DE, and FG loops as set forth in
SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, wherein the DE loop has I amino acid
substitution, such as a conservative amino acid substitution. In some embodiments, the DE
loop has an amino acid sequence according to the formula G-R-G-X 40 , wherein X40 is L.
In some embodiments, the polypeptide comprises the BC, DE, and FG loops as set forth in
SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, wherein the FG loop has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8
amino acid substitutions, such as conservative amino acid substitutions. In some
embodiments, the FG loop has an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 41-X 42
X 43-X 44-X 45 -X 46-X 4 7-X 4 8-X 49-X 50 , wherein X 4 1 is L or 1; X 42 is S; X 43 is K, R, A, G, S, H, N,
T, or P; X4 4 is S, A, E, H, K, or N; X 4 5 is K, Q, D, E, N, T, or S; X 4 6 is V, I, F, L, M, P, or T;
X 4 7 is I or Y; X 4 8 is H, I, V, L, R, F, G, S, or T; X4 9 is H; and X5 0 is M, L, R, or V.
In some embodiments, the polypeptide comprises the BC, DE, and FG loops as set forth in
SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, wherein the BC loop has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 amino
acid substitutions, such as conservative amino acid substitutions, and the DE loop has I
amino acid substitution, such as a conservative amino acid substitution. In some
                                                         5

embodiments, the BC loop has an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 33 -L-P
X34-X3 5-X36-X37-X38-X39, wherein X33 is T or Y; X34 is Y, N, R, F, G, S, or T; X35 is A, P, S,
F, H, N, or R; X 36 is A; X 3 7 is H, L, R, V, N, D, F, or I; X3 8 is L, G, M, F, I, or V; and X 3 9 is
H, and the DE loop has an amino acid sequence according to the formula G-R-G-X 40,
wherein X4 0 is L.
In some embodiments, the polypeptide comprises the BC, DE, and FG loops as set forth in
SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, wherein the BC loop has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 amino
acid substitutions, such as conservative amino acid substitutions, and the FG loop has 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 amino acid substitutions, such as conservative amino acid substitutions. In
some embodiments, the BC loop has an amino acid sequence according to the formula X33
L-P-X34-X35-X36-X37-X38-X39, wherein X 33 is T or Y; X 34 is Y, N, R, F, G, S, or T; X 35 is A,
P, S, F, H, N, or R; X 36 is A; X3 7 is H, L, R, V, N, D, F, or I; X 3 8 is L, G, M, F, I, or V; and
X3 9 is H, and the FG loop has an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 4 1-X 4 2 -X 4 3
X 44-X 45-X 46 -X 47-X 4 8-X 49-Xso, wherein X 4 1 is L or I; X 42 is S; X 43 is K, R, A, G, S, H, N, T, or
P; X 44 is S, A, E, H, K, or N; X4 5 is K, Q, D, E, N, T, or S; X 46 is V, I, F, L, M, P, or T; X 47 is
I or Y; X 4 8 is H, I, V, L, R, F, G, S, or T; X 4 9 is H; and Xso is M, L, R, or V.
In some embodiments, the polypeptide comprises the BC, DE, and FG loops as set forth in
SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, wherein and the DE loop has I amino acid
substitution, such as a conservative amino acid substitution, and the FG loop has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, or 8 amino acid substitutions, such as conservative amino acid substitutions. In some
embodiments, the DE loop has an amino acid sequence according to the formula G-R-G-X 40 ,
wherein X40 is L, and the FG loop has an amino acid sequence according to the formula X41
X 42-X  43 -X 44 -X 45 -X 4 6 -X 47 -X 48 -X 49 -Xso, wherein X 41 is L or I; X 42 is S; X 43 is K, R, A, G, S, H,
N, T, or P; X 4 4 is S, A, E, H, K, or N; X 4 5 is K, Q, D, E, N, T, or S; X 46 is V, I, F, L, M, P, or
T; X 4 7 is I or Y; X 4 8 is H, I, V, L, R, F, G, S, or T; X 4 9 is H; and Xso is M, L, R, or V.
In some embodiments, the polypeptide comprises the BC, DE, and FG loops as set forth in
SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, wherein the BC loop has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 amino
acid substitutions, such as conservative amino acid substitutions, and the DE loop has 1
amino acid substitution, such as a conservative amino acid substitution, and the FG loop has
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 amino acid substitutions, such as conservative amino acid substitutions.
In some embodiments, the BC loop has an amino acid sequence according to the formula
X 33 -L-P-X 34 -X 3 5 -X 3 6-X 37 -X 3 8-X 39 , wherein X 33 is T or Y; X 34 is Y, N, R, F, G,     S, or T; X 35 is
A, P, S, F, H, N, or R; X 36 is A; X 3 7 is H, L, R, V, N, D, F, or I; X 3 8 is L, G, M, F, I, or V; and
                                                             6

X-, is H; the DE loop has an amino acid sequence according to the formula G-R-G-X 40 ,
wherein X40 is L; and the FG loop has an amino acid sequence according to the formula X41
X 42-X 43-X 44 -X 45-X 4 6-X 4 7-X 48-X 49-X5 0 , wherein X 41 is L or 1; X 42 is S; X 43 is K, R, A, G,  S, H,
N, T, or P; X 4 4 is S, A, E, H, K, or N; X 4 5 is K, Q, D, E, N, T, or S; X 4 6 is V, I, F, L, M, P, or
T; X 4 7 is I or Y; X 48 is H, I, V, L, R, F, G, S, or T; X 4 9 is H; and X50 is M, L, R, or V.
In some embodiments, the polypeptide comprises the BC, DE, and FG loops as set forth in
SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, and has amino acid substitutions in the BC, DE,
and FG loops which allow the polypeptide to maintain binding to myostatin. Such amino
acid substitutions can be determined by, e.g., deep mutational scanning as described in
Example 8. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the polypeptide has a BC loop comprising
an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 51-X 52-X 53-X 54 -X 5 5-X56-X 57-X 58 -X 59,
wherein: X 5 1 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, F, H, 1, K, L, N,             Q, R, S,  T, V,
W, and Y; X52 is selected from the group consisting of L, M, and V; X 53 is selected from the
group consisting of A, C, D, E, I, K, L, M, N, P,          Q, R, S, T, V, and     Y; X5 4 is selected from
the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,            Q, R,  S, T, V, W, and Y; X55 is
selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M, N, P,               Q, R, S, T, V,  W,
and Y; X56 is selected from the group consisting of G and S; X57 is selected from the group
consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,          Q, R, S,  T, V, W, and Y; X5 8 is selected from
the group consisting of A, C, G, L, M, S, and T; and X59 is selected from the group consisting
of A, C, F, H, N, P,     Q, R,   S, and Y. In a preferred embodiment, X 5 1 is selected from the
group consisting of C, F, 1, S, V, W, and Y; X52 is selected from the group consisting of L;
X 53 is selected from the group consisting of P; X 5 4 is selected from the group consisting of C,
D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,        Q, R,  S, T, V, W, and Y; X55 is selected from the group
consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,          Q, R,  S, T, V, W, and Y; X56 is selected
from the group consisting of G; X 57 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, G, H, I, K,
L, M, N, Q, R, S, V, W, and Y; X58 is selected from the group consisting of A, G, L, M, and
S; and X59 is selected from the group consisting of C, H, N, Q, S, and Y. In a more preferred
embodiment, X51 is selected from the group consisting of F, S, and W; X52 is selected from
the group consisting of L; X 53 is selected from the group consisting of P; X 5 4 is selected from
the group consisting of C, F, G, I, K, L, M, N, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X5 1 is selected from the
group consisting of A, C, E, F, H, I, K, L, M, P,          Q, R,  S, T, V, and Y; X 56 is selected from the
group consisting of G; X 57 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, H, K, L, M, N, R, V,
W, and Y; X5 8 is selected from the group consisting of A, G, and L; and X 59 is selected from
                                                         7

the group consisting of H, N, and     Q.  In a specific embodiment, X51 S; X5 2 is L; X 53 is P; X5 4
is H; X55 is Q; X 56 is G; X5 7 is K; X 58 is A; X 59 is N.
In some embodiments, the polypeptide comprises a DE loop comprising an amino acid
sequence according to the formula G-R-G-X 60 , wherein X60 is A, C, D, E, F, I, K, L, M, N,              Q,
S, T, and V. In a preferred embodiment, X60 is C, E, I, L, M,     Q, T, and     V. In a more
preferred embodiment, X 60 is C, E, I, L, M, and V. In a specific embodiment, X6 o is V.
In some embodiments, the polypeptide comprises an FG loop comprising an amino acid
sequence according to the formula X 6 1-X 62-X63 -X 64 -X 65-X66 -X 67 -X 68 -X 6 9 -X 7 0, wherein X6 1 is
selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, I, L, M,     Q, T, V, W, and Y; X 62 is selected
from the group consisting of A, C, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,     Q, R, S, T, V,      W, and Y; X6 3 is
selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,          Q, R, S, T, V,   W,
and Y; X6 4 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,          Q,
R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X65 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K,
L, M, N,  Q, R, S, T,   V, W, and Y; X6 6 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, H, I,
L, M, N, P, S, T, V, W, and Y; X67 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, E, F, H, I,
K, L, M, N,   Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X6 8 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E,
F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X69 is selected from the group consisting
of F, W, and Y; and X7o is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L,
M, N, P,  Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y.     In a preferred embodiment, X61 is selected from the group
consisting of A, C, I, L, M, and V; X62 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, H, 1, L,
M,  Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X63 is selected     from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H,
1, L, M, N, P, Q, S, T, V, W, and Y; X64 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E,
F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,   Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X6 5 is selected from the group consisting of
A, D, E, F,  G, H, I, L, M, N, Q, S, T, V, W, and Y; X66 is selected from the group consisting
of C, F, I, L, M, P, T, V, W, and Y; X67 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, H, I, K,
L, M, N,  Q, R, T, V, W, and Y; X68 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, E, F, G, I,
K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X69 is selected from the group consisting of W and
Y; and X70 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, G, H, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, S,
T, and V. In a more preferred embodiment, X61 is selected from the group consisting of I and
V; X62 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, I, L, M, T, V, W, and Y; X 63 is selected
from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, L, M, N, Q, S, T, and V; X6 4 is selected
from the group consisting of A, C, D, F, G, I, L, M, N,     Q, S, T, V,  W, and Y; X6 5 is selected
from the group consisting of A, G, S, T, and W; X66 is selected from the group consisting of
                                                    8

F, I, V, W, and Y; X 67 is selected from the group consisting of F, H, I, L, M, V, W, and Y;
X68 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, G, I, K, L, M, T, V, and W; X69 is
selected from the group consisting of W and Y; and X70 is selected from the group consisting
of A, G, K, L, M, P,           Q, and R.        In a specific embodiment, X6 1 is V; X 62 is T; X63 is D; X6 4 is
T; X6 5 is G; X66 is Y; X 67 is L; X68 is K; X 69 is Y; and X 70 is K.
In some embodiments, the polypeptide of the invention comprises BC, DE, and FG loops,
wherein the BC loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 5 1-X 52
X 53 -X54 -X55 -X56-X 57 -X 5 8-X 59, wherein, X51 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D,
F, H, I, K, L, N,        Q, R, S, T, V,        W, and Y; Xs2 is selected from the group consisting of L, M,
and V; X53 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, I, K, L, M, N, P,                     Q, R, S,  T, V,
and Y; X5 4 is A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,                  Q, R, S,  T, V, W, and Y; X55 is selected
from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,                     Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y;
X 56 is selected from the group consisting of G and S; X 57 is A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M,
N,   Q, R, S, T,     V, W, and Y; X58 is A, C, G, L, M, S, and T; and X 59 is A, C, F, H, N, P,                Q, R,
S, and Y; the DE loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula G-R-G
X 60 , wherein X6o is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, I, K, L, M, N,                   Q, S,
T, and V; and the FG loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 61
X 6 2-X 6 3-X 6 4 -X 6 5-X 6 6 -X 6 7 -X 6 8 -X 6 9-X 70 , wherein X 61 is selected from the group consisting of
A, C, F, I, L, M,        Q, T,   V, W, and Y; X 6 2 is A, C, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,          Q, R, S, T, V, W, and
Y; X 63 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,                    Q, R, S,
T, V, W, and Y; X6 4 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M,
N, P,   Q, R,    S, T, V, W, and Y; X6 5 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G,
H, I, K, L, M, N,         Q, R, S, T, V,         W, and Y; X 6 6 is selected from the group consisting of A, C,
F, H, I, L, M, N, P, S, T, V, W, and Y; X 67 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, E,
F, H, I, K, L, M, N,          Q, R, S, T,       V, W, and Y; X68 is selected from the group consisting of A,
C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,                 Q, R, S,  T, V, W, and Y; X 69 is selected from the group
consisting of F, W, and Y; and X 70 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G,
H, I, K, L, M, N, P,          Q, R, S, T,       V, W, and Y.
In a preferred embodiment, the polypeptide of the invention comprises BC, DE, and FG
loops, wherein the BC loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula X5 i
X52-X53-X54-X55-X56-X57-X58-X59, wherein, X 5 1 is selected from the group consisting of C, F,
1, S, V, W, and Y; X 52 is L; X 53 is P; X5 4 is selected from the group consisting of C, D, E, F,
G, H, I, K, L, M, N,          Q, R, S, T, V,        W, and Y; X5 5 is selected from the group consisting of A,
                                                                  9

C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,       Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X56 is G; X5 7 is selected from the
group consisting of A, C, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,        Q, R, S, V,    W, and Y; X 5s is selected from the
group consisting of A, G, L, M, and S; and X 59 is selected from the group consisting of C, H,
N,  Q, S, and Y; the DE loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula G
R-G-X 60 , wherein X60 is selected from the group consisting of C, E, I, L, M,          Q, T,  and V; and
the FG loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 6 1-X62-X 63-X 64
X 65-X 66-X 67 -X 68-X 6 9-X70, wherein X6 1 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, I, L, M,
and V; X62 is C, F, H, I, L, M,      Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X63 is selected from the group
consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, L, M, N, P,        Q, S, T, V, W, and Y; X 64 is selected from
the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,          Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X65 is
selected from the group consisting of A, D, E, F, G,          H, I, L, M, N, Q, S, T, V, W, and Y; X6 6
is selected from the group consisting of C, F, I, L, M, P, T, V, W, and Y; X6 7 is selected from
the group consisting of C, F, H, I, K, L, M, N, Q, R, T, V, W, and Y; X68 is selected from the
group consisting of A, C, E, F, G, I, K, L, M, N, P,         Q, R, S,  T, V, W, and Y; X 69 is selected
from the group consisting of W and Y; and X70 is selected from the group consisting of A, C,
D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,      Q, R, S,  T, V, W, and Y.
In a more preferred embodiment, the polypeptide of the invention comprises BC, DE, and FG
loops, wherein the BC loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 5 1
X 52-X 53-X 54 -X 55-X 56-X 5 7-X58-X  9, wherein, X 5 1 is selected from the group consisting of F, S,
and W; X 52 is L; X53 is P; X5 4 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, G, I, K, L, M, N,
R, S, T, V, W, and Y; Xss is selected from the group consisting of A, C, E, F, H, I, K, L, M,
P, Q, R, S, T,   V, and Y; X5 6 is G; X 57 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, H, K, L,
M, N, R, V, W, and Y; X58 is selected from the group consisting of A, G, and L; and X 59 is
selected from the group consisting of H, N, and          Q; the DE loop comprises     an amino acid
sequence according to the formula G-R-G-X 6 0 , wherein X60 is selected from the group
consisting of C, E, 1, L, M, and V; and the FG loop comprises an amino acid sequence
according to the formula X 6 1-X 62 -X 63-X 64 -X 65-X 66-X67 -X 68-X 6 9-X 70, wherein X 6 1 is selected
from the group consisting of I and V; X62 is C, F, I, L, M, T, V, W, and Y; X 63 is selected
from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, L, M, N,           Q, S, T, and V; X 64 is selected
from the group consisting of A, C, D, F, G, 1, L, M, N,          Q, S,  T, V, W, and Y; X65 is selected
from the group consisting of A, G, S, T, and W; X66 is selected from the group consisting of
F, I, V, W, and Y; X 67 is selected from the group consisting of F, H, I, L, M, V, W, and Y;
X 68 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, G, I, K, L, M, T, V, and W; X6 9 is
                                                      10

selected from the group consisting of W and Y; and X7 0 is selected from the group consisting
of A, G, K, L, M, P,      Q, and R.
In a specific embodiment, the polypeptide of the invention comprises BC, DE, and FG loops,
wherein the BC loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the fonnula X51-X52
X5 3-X 5 4-X5 5 -X56 -X5 7-X5 s-X5 9, wherein, X5 1 is S; X 52 is L; X 5 3 is P; X5 4 is H; X5 5 is Q; X56 is
G; X 57 is K; X5 s is A; X 59 is N; the DE loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to
the formula G-R-G-X 60 , wherein X60 is V; and the FG loop comprises an amino acid
sequence according to the formula X 6 1 -X 62 -X 63 -X 64 -X 65 -X 66 -X 67 -X 68 -X69 -X 70 , wherein X6 1 is
V; X 62 is T; X63 is D; X6 4 is T; X65 is G; X66 is Y; X 67 is L; X68 is K; X 69 is Y; and X 7 0 is K.
In another embodiment, the polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence at least 80%,
85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to the amino acid sequence set
forth in SEQ ID NO: 273 [PRD-1474], SEQ ID NO: 118 [3116 A06], SEQ ID NO: 281 [core
Adnectin sequence of PRD-1474 and 3116_A06 preceded by N-terminal extension sequence
(GVSDVPRDL) and followed by a C-terminal tail (El)] or SEQ ID NO: 331 [core Adnectin
sequence of PRD-1474 and 3116_A06 without an N-terminal leader sequence or C-terminal
tail]. In yet another embodiment, the polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence at least
80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to the non-BC, DE, and FG loop regions
of SEQ ID NO: 118, 273, 281, or 331.
In another aspect, the invention provides for polypeptides which bind to a discontinuous
Adnectin binding site on myostatin. In some embodiments, the polypeptides bind a region
within amino acids 55-66 of myostatin (SEQ ID NO: 3). In some embodiments, the
polypeptides bind a region within amino acids 85-101 of myostatin (SEQ ID NO: 3). In yet
other embodiments, the polypeptides binds within two regions, amino acids 85-101 and 55
66, of myostatin (SEQ ID NO: 3).
In some embodiments, the polypeptides of the invention do not compete for binding to
myostatin with ActRIIB. In some embodiments, the polypeptides of the invention compete
for binding to myostatin with ALK4 and/or ALK5.
In some embodiments, the polypeptides described above may comprise one or more
pharmacokinetic (PK) moieties such as polyethylene glycol, sialic acid, Fc, Fc fragment,
transferrin, serum albumin, a serum albumin binding protein, and a serum immunoglobulin
binding protein. In one embodiment, the PK moiety is a serum albumin binding protein that
comprises an      10Fn3  domain which binds to, for example, HSA. In another embodiment, the
                                                       II

PK moiety is Fe and can be on either the N- or C-terminus of the polypeptide, and optionally
form a dimer. In yet other embodiments, the PK moiety is polyethylene glycol. In some
embodiments, the PK moiety and polypeptide are linked via at least one disulfide bond, a
peptide bond, a polypeptide, a polymeric sugar or a polyethylene glycol moiety.
In another aspect, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
polypeptide described above, which is optionally endotoxin-free.
In another aspect, the invention provides an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a
polypeptide described above, an expression vector comprising a nucleotide sequence, and a
cell comprising the nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide. In another aspect, the invention
provides a method of producing the anti-myostatin polypeptide by culturing the cell.
In another aspect, the invention provides a method of attenuating or inhibiting a myostatin
related disease or disorder in a subject by administering an effective amount of the
polypeptide or composition comprising a polypeptide described above. In some
embodiments, the disease to be treated is muscular dystrophy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis,
inclusion body myositis (IBM), congestive obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic heart
failure, cancer, AIDs, renal failure, chronic kidney disease, uremia, rheumatoid arthritis,
sarcopenia, muscle wasting due to prolonged bedrest, spinal cord injury, stroke, bone
fracture, aging, diabetes, obesity, hyperglycemia, cachexia, osteoarthritis, osteoporosis,
myocardial infarction, or fibrosis.
In another aspect, the invention provides a method of attenuating or inhibiting a disorder
associated with degeneration or wasting of muscle in a subject.
In another aspect, the invention provides a method of administering the polypeptide to
increase muscle mass, increase the number of muscle cells, increase the size of muscle cells,
increase muscle strength, physical performance and/or endurance in the subject.
In another aspect, the invention provides a method of attenuating or inhibiting a metabolic
disorder in a subject. In some embodiments, the metabolic disorder is diabetes (e.g., type II
diabetes), hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinaemia, hyperlipidaemia, insulin resistance, impaired
glucose metabolism, lipodystrophy, obesity, or metabolic syndrome. In some embodiments,
a second therapeutic composition can be administered. In other embodiments, administration
of the polypeptide results in increased insulin sensitivity, increased glucose uptake by cells,
decreased blood glucose levels, and/or decreased body fat.
                                                12

In another aspect, the invention provides a method for enhancing lean muscle mass in a
subject comprising administering an effective amount of a polypeptide or composition
described above.
In another aspect, the invention provides a method for increasing the ratio of lean muscle
mass to fat in a subject comprising administering an effective amount of a polypeptide or
composition described above.
In another aspect, the invention provides kits comprising a polypeptide or composition
described above, and instructions for use.
In another aspect, the invention provides methods of detecting or measuring myostatin in a
sample comprising contacting the sample with a polypeptide described above, and detecting
or measuring binding of the polypeptide to myostatin.
In another aspect, the invention relates to anti-myostatin binding Adnectins for use in
attenuating or inhibiting a myostatin-related disease or disorder, attenuating or inhibiting a
disorder associated with degeneration or wasting of muscle, increasing muscle mass,
increasing the number of muscle cells, increasing the size of muscle cells, increasing muscle
strength, physical performance and/or endurance, attenuating or inhibiting a metabolic
disorder, enhancing lean muscle mass, and/or increasing the ratio of lean muscle mass to fat,
in a subject. In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectins are those described herein,
e.g., the anti-myostatin Adnectins set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 80-123, 228-239, and 252-273.
In another aspect, the invention relates to the use of the anti-myostatin binding Adnectins for
preparing a medicament for attenuating or inhibiting a myostatin-related disease or disorder,
attenuating or inhibiting a disorder associated with degeneration or wasting of muscle,
increasing muscle mass, increasing the number of muscle cells, increasing the size of muscle
cells, increasing muscle strength, physical performance and/or endurance, attenuating or
inhibiting a metabolic disorder, enhancing lean muscle mass, and/or increasing the ratio of
lean muscle mass to fat, in a subject. In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectins are
those described herein, e.g., the anti-myostatin Adnectins set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 80-123,
228-239, and 252-273.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
                                                 13

Figure 1 shows an alignment of exemplary anti-myostatin Adnectin amino acid sequences.
The BC, DE, and FG loop amino acid sequences are identified by underlining,
italics/underlining or bold/underlining, respectively.
Figure 2 depicts a WebLogo-based analysis of the varied residues of the BC loop of the
1979_B06 family of anti-myostatin Adnectins. Indicated is the frequency of amino acids in
each position of the BC loop that were varied during PROfusion. The image was created
using WebLogo (Crooks GE, Hon G, Chandonia JM, Brenner SE. WebLogo: A sequence
logo generator. Genome Research 2004;14:1188-1190).
Figure 3 depicts a WebLogo-based analysis of the varied residues of the DE loop of the
1979_B06 family of anti-myostatin Adnectins. Indicated is the frequency of amino acids in
each position of the DE loop that were varied during PROfusion.
Figure 4 depicts a WebLogo-based analysis of the varied residues of the FG loop of the
1979_B06 family of anti-myostatin Adnectins. Indicated is the frequency of amino acids in
each position of the FG loop that were varied during PROfusion.
Figure 5 depicts a WebLogo-based analysis of the varied residues of the BC loop of the
2062_G02 family of anti-myostatin Adnectins. Indicated is the frequency of amino acids in
each position of the BC loop that were varied during PROfusion.
Figure 6 depicts a WebLogo-based analysis of the varied residues of the DE loop of the
2062_G02 family of anti-myostatin Adnectins. Indicated is the frequency of amino acids in
each position of the DE loop that were varied during PROfusion.
Figure 7 depicts a WebLogo-based analysis of the varied residues of the FG loop of the
2062_G02 family of anti-myostatin Adnectins. Indicated is the frequency of amino acids in
each position of the FG loop that were varied during PROfusion.
Figure 8 depicts a graph showing the correlation of biochemical and cell-based data for
discrete alanine mutant proteins of Adnectin 3116_A06, with their relative fitness in deep
mutational scanning according to sequence position.
Figure 9 depicts a graph showing the correlation of ER""" from NGS deep mutational
scanning of alanine mutations of Adnectin 3116_A06 with the IC50 measured by HTRF.
Bins for preferable, more preferable, and most preferable single site mutations for binding to
myostatin are indicated.
                                                14

Figure 10 depicts a graph of a competitive binding assay (competitive ELISA) showing that
Adnectins PRD-1285, PRD-1286, and PRD-1288 do not block myostatin binding to ActRIlb
Fc. Indicated is the % competition of ActRIIb-Fc binding to myostatin. As expected, the
positive control ActRIIb-Fc construct competed with ActRIIb-Fc binding to myostatin.
Figure 11 depicts a graph showing the effects of various concentrations of Adnectins PRD
1285, PRD-1286, and PRD-1288 on myostatin activity in an ARE-luciferase assay.
Experimental conditions are as described in Example 3. Each of PRD-1285, PRD-1286, and
PRD-1288 inhibited 100% of the myostatin-induced ARE-luciferase activity.
Figure 12 is a schematic depicting the mechanism of action by which the Adnectins of the
present invention inhibit myostatin activity. The native signaling complex is shown in Fig.
12A. Specifically, binding of myostatin to ActRIIb is followed by recruitment of activin
receptor-like kinase 4 (ALK4) or ALK5, and ActRIIb and ALK4/5 bind to distinct regions of
myostatin. The Adnectins of the present invention prevent the binding of ALK4/5, but not
ActRIlb, to myostatin (Fig. 12B).
Figure 13 shows a computational model depicting the complex of 3116_A06 and myostatin.
Fig. 13A shows the structure of myostatin alone (grey), with the ALK4 binding sites and
ActRIIB binding sites indicated. The regions where 3116_A06 binds to myostatin (i.e.,
Regions 1 and 2) are indicated in black, as determined from experiments described in
Example 11. Fig. 13B shows a preferred complex of 3116_A06 (black) and myostatin (grey)
derived from a docking protocol as described in Example 12. Myostatin regions 1 and 2 as
identified by HDX-MS (Example 11) are represented in space-fill on one side of the molecule
only, and the BC, DE, and FG loops of 3116_A06 are represented in stick rendering.
Although this figure shows one Adnectin bound to one of the two Adnectin binding sites, it
should be noted that either individual Adnectin binding site, or both Adnectin binding sites,
could be occupied.
Figure 14 depicts a bar graph showing percent increases in body weight at day 15 in mice
treated with the indicated anti-myostatin Adnectins compared to control mice. B6 SCID mice
were treated either biweekly or weekly with subcutaneous injections of anti-myostatin
Adnectins for 14 days, as described in Example 13. Body weights were measured throughout
the treatment period; calculated percentage change values for day 15 are depicted. (*
indicates statistical differences from respective control group; p < 0.01 t-test).
                                                 15

Figure 15 depicts a bar graph showing increases in leg muscle volume (in cm 3 ) at day 15 in
mice treated with the indicated anti-myostatin Adnectins compared to control mice. B6 SCID
mice were treated either biweekly or weekly with subcutaneous injections of anti-myostatin
Adnectins for 14 days as described in Example 13. (*= indicates statistical differences from
respective control group; p < 0.05 t-test).
Figure 16 depicts a bar graph showing increases in leg muscle volume (in cm 3) at day 28 in
mice treated with the various indicated doses of PRD-1474. B6 SCID mice were treated
either biweekly or weekly with subcutaneous injections of PRD-1474 for 28 days as
described in Example 14. (*p< 0.0001; # not significant between groups).
                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
Definitions
Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meaning as commonly understood by the skilled artisan. Although any methods and
compositions similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in practice or testing
of the present invention, the preferred methods and compositions are described herein.
"Full-length myostatin" as used herein refers to the full length polypeptide sequence
described in McPherron et al. (1997), supra, as well as related full-length polypeptides
including allelic variants and interspecies homologs. The term "myostatin" or "mature
myostatin" refers to fragments of the biologically active mature myostatin, as well as related
polypeptides including allelic variants, splice variants, and fusion peptides and polypeptides.
The mature C-terminal protein has been reported to have 100% sequence identity among
many species including human, mouse, chicken, porcine, turkey, and rat (Lee et al., PNAS
2001;98:9306). The sequence for human prepromyostatin is:
MQKLQLCVYIYLFMLIVAGPVDLNENSEQKENVEKEGLCNACTWRQNTKSSRIEAIK
IQILSKLRLETAPNISKDVIRQLLPKAPPLRELIDQYDVQRDDSSDGSLEDDDYHATTE
TIITMPTESDFLMQVDGKPKCCFFKFSSKIQYNKVVKAQLWIYLRPVETPTTVFVQIL
RLIKPMKDGTRYTGIRSLKLDMNPGTGIWQSIDVKTVLQNWLKQPESNLGIEIKALDE
NGHDLAVTFPGPGEDGLNPFLEVKVTDTPKRSRRDFGLDCDEHSTESRCCRYPLTVD
FEAFGWDWIIAPKRYKANYCSGECEFVFLQKYPHTHLVHQANPRGSAGPCCTPTKM
SPINMLYFNGKEQIIYGKIPAMVVDRCGCS (SEQ ID NO: 1)
                                                16

The sequence for human pro-myostatin is:
NENSEQKENVEKEGLCNACTWRQNTKSSRIEAIKIQILSKLRLETAPNISKDVIRQLLP
KAPPLRELIDQYDVQRDDSSDGSLEDDDYHAT TETIITMPTESDFLMQVDGKPKCCFF
KFSSKIQYNKVVKAQLWIYLRPVETPTTVFVQILRLIKPMKDGTRYTGIRSLKLDMNP
GTGIWQSIDVKTVLQNWLKQPESNLGIEIKALDENGHDLAVTFPGPGEDGLNPFLEV
KVTDTPKRSRRDFGLDCDEHSTESRCCRYPLTVDFEAFGWDWIIAPKRYKANYCSGE
CEFVFLQKYPHTHLVHQANPRGSAGPCCTPTKMSPINMLYFNGKEQIIYGKIPAMVV
DRCGCS (SEQ ID NO: 2)
The sequence for mature myostatin (conserved in human, murine, rat, chicken, turkey, dog,
horse, and pig) is:
DFGLDCDEHSTESRCCRYPLTVDFEAFGWDWIIAPKRYKANYCSGECEFVFLQKYPH
THLVHQANPRGSAGPCCTPTKMSPINMLYFNGKEQIIYGKIPAMVVDRCGCS                                      (SEQ
ID NO: 3).
"Polypeptide" as used herein refers to any sequence of two or more amino acids, regardless of
length, post-translation modification, or function. "Polypeptide," "peptide," and "protein" are
used interchangeably herein. Polypeptides can include natural amino acids and non-natural
amino acids such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,559,126, incorporated herein by
reference. Polypeptides can also be modified in any of a variety of standard chemical ways
(e.g., an amino acid can be modified with a protecting group; the carboxy-terminal amino
acid can be made into a terminal amide group; the amino-terminal residue can be modified
with groups to, e.g., enhance lipophilicity; or the polypeptide can be chemically glycosylated
or otherwise modified to increase stability or in vivo half-life). Polypeptide modifications can
include the attachment of another structure such as a cyclic compound or other molecule to
the polypeptide and can also include polypeptides that contain one or more amino acids in an
altered configuration (i.e., R or S; or, L or D). The peptides of the invention are proteins
derived from the tenth type III domain of fibronectin that have been modified to bind to
myostatin and are referred to herein as, "anti-myostatin Adnectin" or "myostatin Adnectin."
A "polypeptide chain", as used herein, refers to a polypeptide wherein each of the domains
thereof is joined to other domain(s) by peptide bond(s), as opposed to non-covalent
interactions or disulfide bonds.
An "isolated" polypeptide is one that has been identified and separated and/or recovered from
a component of its natural environment. Contaminant components of its natural environment
                                                  17

are materials that would interfere with diagnostic or therapeutic uses for the polypeptide, and
may include enzymes, hormones, and other proteinaceous or nonproteinaceous solutes. In
preferred embodiments, the polypeptide will be purified (1) to greater than 95% by weight of
polypeptide as determined by the Lowry method, and most preferably more than 99% by
weight, (2) to a degree sufficient to obtain at least residues of N-terminal or internal amino
acid sequence by use of a spinning cup sequenator, or (3) to homogeneity by SDS-PAGE
under reducing or nonreducing condition using Coomassie blue or, preferably, silver stain.
Isolated polypeptide includes the polypeptide in situ within recombinant cells since at least
one component of the polypeptide's natural environment will not be present. Ordinarily,
however, isolated polypeptide will be prepared by at least one purification step.
"Percent (%) amino acid sequence identity" herein is defined as the percentage of amino acid
residues in a candidate sequence that are identical with the amino acid residues in a selected
sequence, after aligning the sequences and introducing gaps, if necessary, to achieve the
maximum percent sequence identity, and not considering any conservative substitutions as
part of the sequence identity. Alignment for purposes of determining percent amino acid
sequence identity can be achieved in various ways that are within the skill in the art, for
instance, using publicly available computer software such as BLAST, BLAST-2, ALIGN,
ALIGN-2 or Megalign (DNASTAR TM) software. Those skilled in the art can readily
determine appropriate parameters for measuring alignment, including any algorithms needed
to achieve maximal alignment over the full-length of the sequences being compared. For
example, the % amino acid sequence identity of a given amino acid sequence A to, with, or
against a given amino acid sequence B (which can alternatively be phrased as a given amino
acid sequence A that has or comprises a certain % amino acid sequence identity to, with, or
against a given amino acid sequence B) is calculated as follows: 100 times the fraction X/Y
where X is the number of amino acid residues scored as identical matches by the sequence
alignment program ALIGN-2 in that program's alignment of A and B, and where Y is the
total number of amino acid residues in B. It will be appreciated that where the length of
amino acid sequence A is not equal to the length of amino acid sequence B, the % amino acid
sequence identity of A to B will not equal the % amino acid sequence identity of B to A.
As used herein, "conservative substitution" denotes the replacement of an amino acid residue
by another, without altering the overall conformation and function of the peptide, including,
but not limited to, replacement of an amino acid with one having similar properties (such as,
for example, polarity, hydrogen bonding potential, acidic, basic, shape, hydrophobic,
                                                 18

aromatic, and the like). Amino acids with similar properties are well known in the art. For
example, arginine, histidine and lysine are hydrophilic-basic amino acids and may be
interchangeable. Similarly, isoleucine, a hydrophobic amino acid, may be replaced with
leucine, methionine or valine. Neutral hydrophilic amino acids, which can be substituted for
one another, include asparagine, glutamine, serine and threonine. By "substituted"' or
"modified" the present invention includes those amino acids that have been altered or
modified from naturally occurring amino acids. As such it should be understood that in the
context of the present invention a conservative substitution is recognized in the art as a
substitution of one amino acid for another amino acid that has similar properties.
As used herein, the term "Adnectin binding site" refers to the site or portion of a protein (e.g.,
myostatin) that interacts or binds to a particular Adnectin (e.g., as an epitope is recognized by
an antibody). Adnectin binding sites can be formed from contiguous amino acids or
noncontiguous amino acids juxtaposed by tertiary folding of a protein. Adnectin binding
sites formed by contiguous amino acids are typically retained on exposure to denaturing
solvents, whereas Adnectin binding sites formed by tertiary folding are typically lost on
treatment of denaturing solvents.
An Adnectin binding site for an anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention may be determined
by application of standard techniques typically used for epitope mapping of antibodies
including, but not limited to protease mapping and mutational analysis. Alternatively, an
Adnectin binding site can be determined by competition assay using a reference Adnectin or
antibody which binds to the same polypeptide, e.g., myostatin (as further described infra in
the section "Cross-Competing Adnectins and/or Adnectins that Bind to the Same Adnectin
Binding Site." If the test Adnectin and reference molecule (e.g., another Adnectin or
antibody) compete, then they bind to the same Adnectin binding site or to Adnectin binding
sites sufficiently proximal such that binding of one molecule interferes with the other.
The terms "specifically binds," "specific binding," "selective binding," and "selectively
binds," as used interchangeably herein refers to an Adnectin that exhibits affinity for a
myostatin, but does not significantly bind (e.g., less than about 10% binding) to a different
polypeptide as measured by a technique available in the art such as, but not limited to,
Scatchard analysis and/or competitive binding assays (e.g., competition ELISA, BIACORE
assay). The term is also applicable where e.g., a binding domain of an Adnectin of the
invention is specific for myostatin.
                                                 19

The term "preferentially binds" as used herein refers to the situation in which an Adnectin of
the invention binds myostatin at least about 20% greater than it binds a different polypeptide
as measured by a technique available in the art such as, but not limited to, Scatchard analysis
and/or competitive binding assays (e.g., competition ELISA, BIACORE assay).
As used herein, the term "cross-reactivity" refers to an Adnectin which binds to more than
one distinct protein having identical or very similar Adnectin binding sites.
The term "KD," as used herein, is intended to refer to the dissociation equilibrium constant of
a particular Adnectin-protein (e.g., myostatin) interaction or the affinity of an Adnectin for a
protein (e.g., myostatin), as measured using a surface plasmon resonance assay or a cell
binding assay. A "desired KD," as used herein, refers to a     KD  of an Adnectin that is sufficient
for the purposes contemplated. For example, a desired       KD   may refer to the KD  of an
Adnectin required to elicit a functional effect in an in vitro assay, e.g., a cell-based luciferase
assay.
The term "kass", as used herein, is intended to refer to the association rate constant for the
association of an Adnectin into the Adnectin/protein complex.
The term "kaiss", as used herein, is intended to refer to the dissociation rate constant for the
dissociation of an Adnectin from the Adnectin/protein complex.
The term "IC 5 o", as used herein, refers to the concentration of an Adnectin that inhibits a
response, either in an in vitro or an in vivo assay, to a level that is 50% of the maximal
inhibitory response, i.e., halfway between the maximal inhibitory response and the untreated
response.
The term "myostatin activity" as used herein refers to one or more of growth-regulatoiy or
morphogenetic activities associated with the binding of active myostatin protein to ActRIIb
and the subsequent recruitment of Alk4 or Alk5. For example, active myostatin is a negative
regulator of skeletal muscle mass. Active myostatin can also modulate the production of
muscle-specific enzymes (e.g., creatine kinase), stimulate myoblast proliferation, and
modulate preadipocyte differentiation to adipocytes. Myostatin activity can be determined
using art-recognized methods, such as those described herein.
The phrases "inhibit myostatin activity" or "antagonize myostatin activity" or "antagonize
myostatin" are used interchangeably to refer to the ability of the anti-myostatin Adnectins of
the present invention to neutralize or antagonize an activity of myostatin in vivo or in vitro.
The terms "inhibit" or "neutralize" as used herein with respect to an activity of an Adnectin of
                                                  20

the invention means the ability to substantially antagonize, prohibit, prevent, restrain, slow,
disrupt, eliminate, stop, reduce or reverse e.g., progression or severity of that which is being
inhibited including, but not limited to, a biological activity or property, a disease or a
condition. The inhibition or neutralization is preferably at least about 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%,
50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95% or higher.
For example, an anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention may reduce circulating levels of
biologically active myostatin normally found in a vertebrate subject, or a reduction of
circulating levels of biologically active myostatin in subjects with disorders that result in
elevated circulating levels of myostatin. A reduction of myostatin activity may be
determined using in vitro assays, e.g., binding assays, as described herein. Alternatively, a
reduction in myostatin activity may result in an increase in body weight, enhanced muscle
mass, increased muscle strength, an alteration in the ratio of muscle to fat, an increase in fat
free muscle mass, an increase in the size and/or number of muscle cells, and/or a reduction in
body fat content.
The term "PK" is an acronym for "pharmacokinetic" and encompasses properties of a
compound including, by way of example, absorption, distribution, metabolism, and
elimination by a subject. A "PK modulation protein" or "PK moiety" as used herein refers to
any protein, peptide, or moiety that affects the pharmacokinetic properties of a biologically
active molecule when fused to or administered together with the biologically active molecule.
Examples of a PK modulation protein or PK moiety include PEG, human serum albumin
(HSA) binders (as disclosed in U.S. Publication Nos. 2005/0287153 and 2007/0003549, PCT
Publication Nos. WO 2009/083804 and WO 2009/133208), human serum albumin, Fc or Fc
fragments and variants thereof, and sugars (e.g., sialic acid).
The "half-life" of an amino acid sequence or compound can generally be defined as the time
taken for the serum concentration of the polypeptide to be reduced by 50%, in vivo, for
example due to degradation of the sequence or compound and/or clearance or sequestration
of the sequence or compound by natural mechanisms. The half-life can be determined in any
manner known per se, such as by pharmacokinetic analysis. Suitable techniques will be clear
to the person skilled in the art, and may for example generally involve the steps of suitably
administering to a subject a suitable dose of the amino acid sequence or compound of the
invention; collecting blood samples or other samples from the subject at regular intervals;
determining the level or concentration of the amino acid sequence or compound of the
invention in said blood sample; and calculating, from (a plot of) the data thus obtained, the
                                                 21

time until the level or concentration of the amino acid sequence or compound of the invention
has been reduced by 50% compared to the initial level upon dosing. Reference is, for
example, made to the standard handbooks, such as Kenneth, A. et al., Chemical Stability of
Pharmaceuticals: A Handbook for Pharmacists and in Peters et al., Pharmacokinete Analysis:
A Practical Approach (1996). Reference is also made to Gibaldi, M. et al., Pharmacokinetics,
2nd Rev. Edition, Marcel Dekker (1982).
Half-life can be expressed using parameters such as the t1/2-alpha, tl'2-beta, HLLambda_z,
and the area under the curve (AUC). In the present specification, an "increase in half-life"
refers to an increase in any one of these parameters, any two of these parameters, any three of
these parameters or all four of these parameters. An "increase in half-life" in particular refers
to an increase in the t1/2-beta, and/or HLLambda z, either with or without an increase in the
tlv2-alpha and/or the AUC or both.
The notations "mpk", "mg/kg", or "mg per kg" refer to milligrams per kilogram. All notations
are used interchangeably throughout the present disclosure.
The terms "individual," "subject," and "patient," used interchangeably herein, refer to an
animal, preferably a mammalian (including a nonprimate and a primate) or avian species,
including, but not limited to, murines, simians, humans, mammalian farm animals (e.g.,
bovine, porcine, ovine), mammalian sport animals (e.g., equine), and mammalian pets (e.g.,
canine and feline); preferably the term refers to humans. The term also refers to avian
species, including, but not limited to, chickens and turkeys. In a certain embodiment, the
subject, preferably a mammal, preferably a human, is further characterized with a disease or
disorder or condition that would benefit from a decreased level or decreased bioactivity of
myostatin. In another embodiment the subject, preferably a mammal, preferably a human, is
further characterized as being at risk of developing a disorder, disease or condition that would
benefit from a decreased level of myostatin or a decreased bioactivity of myostatin.
The term "therapeutically effective amount" refers to at least the minimal dose, but less than a
toxic dose, of an agent which is necessary to impart a therapeutic benefit to a subject. For
example, a therapeutically effective amount of an anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention is
an amount which in mammals, preferably humans, results in one or more of the following: an
increase in muscle volume and/or muscle strength, a decrease in body fat, an increase in
insulin sensitivity, or the treatment of conditions wherein the presence of myostatin causes or
                                                 22

contributes to an undesirable pathological effect or a decrease in myostatin levels results in a
beneficial therapeutic effect.
The term "frail" or "frailty" as used herein refers to a condition that can be characterized by
two or more symptoms from weakness, weight loss, slowed mobility, fatigue, low activity
levels, poor endurance, and impaired behavioral response to sensory cues. One hallmark of
frailty is "sarcopenia," or the age-related loss of muscle mass.
The term "cachexia" as used herein refers to the condition of accelerated muscle wasting and
loss of lean body mass that can result from various diseases.
Overview
The present invention provides novel polypeptides that bind to and antagonize myostatin
(herein referred to as "anti-myostatin Adnectins"). In order to identify myostatin antagonists,
myostatin was presented to large synthetic libraries of Adnectins. Adnectins that bound to
myostatin were screened for myostatin binding, for biophysical properties, and for myostatin
inhibitory activity. The anti-myostatin Adnectins were mutated and subjected to further
selective pressure by lowering the target concentration and selecting for anti-myostatin
Adnectins with slow off-rates. From this optimization process, a family of Adnectins was
identified as myostatin specific inhibitors with favorable biochemical and biophysical
activity. The anti-myostatin Adnectins disclosed in the present application are useful for the
treatment of disorders, diseases, and conditions for which inhibition of myostatin activity is
known to be beneficial, including, but not limited to, the treatment of muscle wasting
diseases, metabolic disorders, and muscle atrophy due to inactivity.
As disclosed in Rebbapragada et al. (MCB 2003;23:7230-42), the myostatin signaling
pathway involves binding of myostatin to ActRIlb, followed by recruitment of activin
receptor-like kinase 4 (ALK4) or ALK5. Binding to the ALKs induces Smad2/Smad3
phosphorylation, followed by activation of the TGFp-like signaling pathway (see, e.g.,
Rebbapragada et al., MCB 2003;23:7230-42).
1.       Fibronectin Based Scaffolds
One aspect of the application provides anti-myostatin Adnectins comprising an Fn3 domain
in which one or more of the solvent accessible loops has been randomized or mutated. In
some embodiments, the Fn3 domain is an Fn3 domain derived from the wild-type tenth
module of the human fibronectin type III domain (10Fn3):
                                                 23

VSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLISWDAPAVTVRYYRITYGETGGNSPVQEFTVPGSKSTAT
ISGLKPGVDYTITVYAVTGRGDSPASSKPISNYRT (SEQ ID NO: 4) (BC, DE, and FG
loops are underlined).
In other embodiments, the non-ligand binding sequences of 10Fn3, i.e., the "10Fn3 scaffold",
may be altered provided that the      10Fn3  retains ligand binding function and/or structural
stability. A variety of mutant 10(Fn3 scaffolds have been reported. In one aspect, one or more
of Asp 7, Glu 9, and Asp 23 is replaced by another amino acid, such as, for example, a non
negatively charged amino acid residue (e.g., Asn, Lys, etc.). These mutations have been
reported to have the effect of promoting greater stability of the mutant        10Fn3 at neutral pH as
compared to the wild-type form (see, e.g., PCT Publication No. WO 02/04523). A variety of
additional alterations in the   10Fn3   scaffold that are either beneficial or neutral have been
disclosed. See, for example, Batori et al., Protein Eng., 15(12):1015-1020 (December 2002);
Koide et al., Biochemistry, 40(34):10326-10333 (Aug. 28, 2001).
Both variant and wild-type     10Fn3   proteins are characterized by the same structure, namely
seven beta-strand domain sequences designated A through G and six loop regions (AB loop,
BC loop, CD loop, DE loop, EF loop, and FG loop) which connect the seven beta-strand
domain sequences. The beta strands positioned closest to the N- and C-termini may adopt a
beta-like conformation in solution. In SEQ ID NO:4, the AB loop corresponds to residues 15
 16, the BC loop corresponds to residues 21-30, the CD loop corresponds to residues 39-45,
the DE loop corresponds to residues 51-56, the EF loop corresponds to residues 60-66, and
the FG loop corresponds to residues 76-87 (Xu et al., Chemistry & Biology, 9:933-942,
2002).
Accordingly, in some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin is an             10Fn3 polypeptide that
is at least 40%, 50%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, or 90% identical to the human 10Fn3
domain, shown in SEQ ID NO:4. Much of the variability will generally occur in one or more
of the loops. Each of the beta or beta-like strands of a      10Fn3 polypeptide may consist
essentially of an amino acid sequence that is at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or 100% identical
to the sequence of a corresponding beta or beta-like strand of SEQ ID NO:4, provided that
such variation does not disrupt the stability of the polypeptide in physiological conditions.
In some embodiments, the invention provides an anti-myostatin Adnectin comprising a tenth
fibronectin type III ( 10 Fn3) domain, wherein the 10Fn3 domain comprises a loop, AB; a loop,
BC; a loop, CD; a loop, DE; a loop EF; and a loop FG; and has at least one loop selected
                                                     24

from loop BC, DE, and FG with an altered amino acid sequence relative to the sequence of
the corresponding loop of the human        10Fn3  domain. In some embodiments, the anti
myostatin Adnectins of the present invention comprise an        10Fn3 domain comprising an amino
acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to the non-loop
regions of SEQ ID NO:4, wherein at least one loop selected from BC, DE, and FG is altered.
In some embodiments, the BC and FG loops are altered, and in some embodiments, the BC,
DE, and FG loops are altered, i.e., the     10Fn3  domains comprise non-naturally occurring loops.
In some embodiments, the AB, CD and/or the EF loops are altered. By "altered" is meant one
or more amino acid sequence alterations relative to a template sequence (corresponding
human fibronectin domain) and includes amino acid additions, deletions, substitutions or a
combination thereof. Altering an amino acid sequence may be accomplished through
intentional, blind, or spontaneous sequence variation, generally of a nucleic acid coding
sequence, and may occur by any technique, for example, PCR, error-prone PCR, or chemical
DNA synthesis.
In some embodiments, one or more loops selected from BC, DE, and FG may be extended or
shortened in length relative to the corresponding human fibronectin loop. In some
embodiments, the length of the loop may be extended by 2-25 amino acids. In some
embodiments, the length of the loop may be decreased by 1-11 amino acids. To optimize
antigen binding, therefore, the length of a loop of 10Fn3 may be altered in length as well as in
sequence to obtain the greatest possible flexibility and affinity in antigen binding.
In some embodiments, the polypeptide comprises a Fn3 domain that comprises an amino acid
sequence at least 80, 85, 90, 95, 98, 99, or 100% identical to the non-loop regions of SEQ ID
NO: 4, wherein at least one loop selected from BC, DE, and FG is altered. In some
embodiments, the altered BC loop has up to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 amino acid
substitutions, up to 1, 2, 3, or 4 amino acid deletions, up to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 amino
acid insertions, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the altered DE loop has up
to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 amino acid substitutions, up to 1, 2, 3, or 4 amino acid deletions, up to 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, or 13 amino acid insertions, or a combination thereof. In
some embodiments, the FG loop has up to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 amino acid
substitutions, up to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or 11 amino acid deletions, up to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 ,17 ,18 ,19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, or 25 amino acid insertions,
or a combination thereof.
                                                    25

The anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention are based on an "0 Fn3 scaffold and are defined
generally by the following sequence:
EVVAAT(Z)aSLLI(Z)xYYRITYGE(Z)bQEFTV(Z)yATI(Z)cDYTITVYAV(Z)zIS1NYRT
(SEQ ID NO: 5),
wherein the AB loop is represented by (Z)a, the CD loop is represented by (Z)b, the EF loop
is represented by(Z)e, the BC loop is represented by (Z)x, the DE loop is represented by (Z)y,
and the FG loop is represented by (Z)z. Z represents any amino acid and the subscript
following the Z represents an integer of the number of amino acids. In particular, a may be
anywhere from 1-15, 2-15, 1-10, 2-10, 1-8, 2-8, 1-5, 2-5, 1-4, 2-4, 1-3, 2-3, or 1-2 amino
acids; and b, c, x, y and z may each independently be anywhere from 2-20, 2-15, 2-10, 2-8, 5
20, 5-15, 5-10, 5-8, 6-20, 6-15, 6-10, 6-8, 2-7, 5-7, or 6-7 amino acids. In preferred
embodiments, a is 2 amino acids, b is 7 amino acids, c is 7 amino acids, x is 11 amino acids,
y is 6 amino acids, and z is 12 amino acids. The sequences of the beta strands may have
anywhere from 0 to 10, from 0 to 8, from 0 to 6, from 0 to 5, from 0 to 4, from 0 to 3, from 0
to 2, or from 0 to I substitutions, deletions or additions across all 7 scaffold regions relative
to the corresponding amino acids shown in SEQ ID NO: 4. In certain embodiments, the
sequences of the beta strands may have anywhere from 0 to 10, from 0 to 8, from 0 to 6, from
0 to 5, from 0 to 4, from 0 to 3, from 0 to 2, or from 0 to I conservative substitutions across
all 7 scaffold regions relative to the corresponding amino acids shown in SEQ ID NO: 4. In
certain embodiments, the core amino acid residues are fixed and any substitutions,
conservative substitutions, deletions or additions occur at residues other than the core amino
acid residues.
Alternatively, the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention are based on an      10Fn3 scaffold
and are defined generally by the sequence:
EVVAATPTSLLI(Z)xYYRITYGETGGNSPVQEFTV(Z)yATISGLKPGVDYTITVYAV(Z)
ISINYRT (SEQ ID NO: 6)
wherein the BC loop is represented by (Z)x, the DE loop is represented by (Z)y, and the FG
loop is represented by (Z)z. Z represents any amino acid and the subscript following the Z
represents an integer of the number of amino acids. In particular, x, y and z may each
independently be anywhere from 2-20, 2-15, 2-10, 2-8, 5-20, 5-15, 5-10, 5-8, 6-20, 6-15, 6
10, 6-8, 2-7, 5-7, or 6-7 amino acids. In preferred embodiments, x is 11 amino acids, y is 6
amino acids, and z is 12 amino acids. The sequences of the beta strands may have anywhere
                                                 26

from 0 to 10, from 0 to 8, from 0 to 6, from 0 to 5, from 0 to 4, from 0 to 3, from 0 to 2, or
from 0 to I substitutions, deletions or additions across all 7 scaffold regions relative to the
corresponding amino acids shown in SEQ ID NO: 1. In certain embodiments, the sequences
of the beta strands may have anywhere from 0 to 10, from 0 to 8, from 0 to 6, from 0 to 5,
from 0 to 4, from 0 to 3, from 0 to 2, or from 0 to 1 conservative substitutions across all 7
scaffold regions relative to the corresponding amino acids shown in SEQ ID NO: 4. In certain
embodiments, the core amino acid residues are fixed and any substitutions, conservative
substitutions, deletions or additions occur at residues other than the core amino acid residues.
In certain embodiments, an anti-myostatin Adnectin described herein may comprise the
sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 5 or 6, wherein at least one of BC, DE, and FG loops as
represented by (Z)x, (Z)y, and (Z)z, respectively, are altered. As described above, amino acid
residues corresponding to residues 21-30, 51-56, and 76-87 of SEQ ID NO: 4 define the BC,
DE, and FG loops, respectively. However, it should be understood that not every residue
within the loop region needs to be modified in order to achieve a    10Fn3 binder having strong
affinity for a desired target (e.g., myostatin).
For example, residues 21 (S) and 22 (W) of the BC loop as shown in SEQ ID NO: I do not
need to be modified for binding to myostatin. That is,    10Fn3 domains with high affinity
binding to myostatin may be obtained by modifying only residues 23-3 0 of loop BC as shown
in SEQ ID NO: 4. This is demonstrated in the BC loops exemplified in Table 1, which
indicates that only the underlined positions are modified.
Similarly, positions 51 (P) and 56 (T) of loop DE as shown in SEQ ID NO: 4 do not need to
be modified for binding myostatin. That is,    10Fn3 domains with high affinity binding to
myostatin may be obtained by modifying only residues 52-55 of loop DE as shown in SEQ
ID NO: 4. This is demonstrated in the DE loops exemplified in Table 1, which indicates that
only resides spanning the underlined positions were altered.
Likewise, positions 76 (T) and 87 (P) of the FG loop as shown in SEQ ID NO: I do not need
to be modified for binding myostatin. That is,    10Fn3 domains with high affinity binding to
myostatin may be obtained by modifying only residues 77-86 of loop FG as shown in SEQ
ID NO: 4. This is demonstrated in the FG loops exemplified in Table 1, which indicates that
only the residues spanning the underlined positions were altered.
Accordingly, in some embodiments, the BC, DE, and FG loop regions of the anti-myostatin
Adnectins of the invention can be described according to consensus sequences. These
                                                 27

consensus sequences are exemplified by the BC, DE, and FG loops shown in Table 1, and as
determined by WebLogo analysis (Figs. 2-7) (Crooks GE, Hon G, Chandonia JM, Brenner
SE. WebLogo: A sequence logo generator. Genome Research 2004;14:1188-1190, herein
incorporated by reference in its entirety). WebLogo analysis generates an amino acid
signature reflecting the frequency of amino acids in each altered position of the BC, DE, or
FG loop.
For example, in some embodiments, the BC loop, (Z)x, is defined by the consensus sequence
X 1-L-P-X 2 -X 3-X 4 -Xs-X 6 -X 7 , wherein, Xi is S, T or Y; X2 is H, Y, N, R, F, G, S or T; X3 is A,
P,  Q, S, F,    H, N or R; X4 is G or A; X5 H, L, R, V, N, D, F, I or K; X6 is A, L, G, M, F, I or
V; and X7 is H or N. In certain preferred embodiments, the BC loop comprises an amino acid
sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 7, 11-21, 23-31, 34, and 36-38. In one embodiment,
the BC loop comprises the amino acid set forth in SEQ ID NO. 34.
In some embodiments, the DE loop, (Z)y, is defined by the consensus sequence G-R-G-X8 ,
wherein X8 is V or L. In certain preferred embodiments, the DE loop comprises an amino
acid selected from SEQ ID NOs: 39 and 42. In one embodiment, the DE loop comprises the
amino acid set forth in SEQ ID NO. 39.
In some embodiments, the FG loop, (Z)z, is defined by consensus sequence X9 -X 10 -X11 -X 12
X13-X    1 4-X 15 -X 16-X17 -X18, wherein X9 is L, V or I; Xio is T or S; Xii is K, R, A, G, S, D, H,
N, T or P; X12 is S, T, A, E, H, K or N; X 1 3 is K, G, Q, D, E, N, T or S; X14 is V, I, F, L, M, P,
T or Y; X1 5 is I, L or Y; X 16 is H, I, V, K, L, R, F, G, S or T; X 17 is Y or H; and Xis is K, M,
L, R or V. In certain preferred embodiments, the FG loop comprises an amino acid sequence
selected from SEQ ID NOs: 46, 50-62, 64-72, 75-77, and 79. In one embodiment, the FG
loop comprises the amino acid set forth in SEQ ID NO. 75.
In other embodiments, the BC loop, (Z)x, is defined by the consensus sequence X 1 9 -X 2 0 -P
X 2 i-G-X 22 -A, wherein X 19 is D, E, V or W; X 2 0 is A, S or V; X 2 1 is R, A, G, K or L; and X22
is L or R. In certain preferred embodiments, the BC loop comprises an amino acid sequence
selected from SEQ ID NOs: 8-10, 22, 32, 33, and 35.
In other embodiments, the DE loop, (Z)y, is defined by the consensus sequence X 23-G-R-G
X 2 4 , wherein X2 3 is V, P, F, I or L; and X 2 4 is S, N or T. In certain preferred embodiments, the
DE loop comprises and amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 40, 41, and 43-45.
In other embodiments, the FG loop, (Z)z, is defined by the consensus sequence X 25-X 26 -R
X27-G-X28-X29-X30-X31-X32, wherein X 25 is I or V; X26 is F, D or Y; X 27 is D or T; X 28 is P,
                                                      28

M, V or T; X 2 9 is V, L, N, R or S; X 30 is H, T, L, N, Q or S; X 3 1 is F, W, Y, H or L; and X3 2 is
D, A or G. In certain preferred embodiments the FG loop comprises an amino acid sequence
selected from SEQ ID NOs: 47-49, 63, 73, 74, and 78.
Accordingly, in certain embodiments the invention provides an anti-myostatin Adnectin
comprising a BC loop, (Z)x, having the sequence XI-L-P-X 2 -X 3 -X 4 -X-X6-X7 and a DE loop,
(Z)y, having the sequence G-R-G-X 8 , as defined above. In certain embodiments, the BC
loop comprises an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 7, 11-21, 23-31, 34, and
36-38, and the DE loop comprises an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 39
and 42. In one embodiment, the BC and DE loops comprise the amino acid sequences set
forth in SEQ ID NOs: 34 and 39, respectively.
In certain embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin comprises a BC loop, (Z)x, having the
sequence X 1-L-P-X 2 -X 3 -X 4 -X5 -X6 -X 7 and an FG loop, (Z)z, having the sequence X9-Xio-Xii
X 12 -X13 -X 14 -X 15 -X 1 6-X17 -X 1 8 , as defined above. In certain embodiments, the BC loop
comprises an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 7, 11-21, 23-31, 34, and 36
38, and the FG loop comprises an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 46, 50
62, 64-72, 75-77, and 79. In one embodiment, the BC and FG loops comprise the amino acid
sequences set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 34 and 75, respectively.
In certain embodiments the anti-myostatin Adnectin comprises a DE loop, (Z)), having the
sequence G-R-G-X 8 and an FG loop, (Z)z, having the sequence X 9 -X 1 0-X 11-X 12 -X 13 -X14-X 1 5
X 16-X 1 7 -X 18 , as defined above. In certain embodiments, the DE loop comprises an amino
acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 39 and 42, and the FG loop comprises an amino
acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 46, 50-62, 64-72, 75-77, and 79. In one
embodiment, the DE and FG loops comprise the amino acid sequences set forth in SEQ ID
NOs: 39 and 75, respectively.
In certain embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin comprises a BC loop, (Z)x, having the
sequence Xi-L-P-X2-X3-X4-X 5 -X6 -X 7, a DE loop, (Z)y, having the sequence G-R-G-Xs and
an FG loop, (Z)z, having the sequence X9-Xio-XII-X12-X13-X14-X15-Xi6-X17-X8, as defined
above. In certain embodiments, the BC loop comprises an amino acid sequence selected from
SEQ ID NOs: 7, 11-21, 23-31, 34, and 36-38, the DE loop comprises an amino acid sequence
selected from SEQ ID NOs: 39 and 42, and the FG loop comprises an amino acid sequence
selected from SEQ ID NOs: 46, 50-62, 64-72, 75-77, and 79. In one embodiment, the BC,
                                                         29

DE, and FG loops comprise the amino acid sequences set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and
75, respectively.
In other embodiments, the invention provides an anti-myostatin Adnectin comprising a BC
loop, (Z)x, having the sequence X 19 -X 2 0-P-X 2 1-G-X     22 -A and a DE loop, (Z)y, having the
sequence X 23-G-R-G-X 24, as defined above. In certain embodiments, the BC loop comprises
an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 8-10, 22, 32, 33, and 35 and the DE loop
comprises an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 40, 41, and 43-45.
In other embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin comprises a BC loop, (Z)x, having the
sequence X 19 -X 2 0-P-X 2 1-G-X 2 2 -A and an FG loop, (Z)z, having the sequence X 2 5-X 2 6-R-X 27
G-X  2 8 -X 2 9-X30-X3 0 -X32,  as defined above. In certain embodiments, the BC loop comprises an
amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 8-10, 22, 32, 33, and 35 and the FG loop
comprises an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 47-49, 63, 73, 74, and 78.
In other embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin comprises a DE loop, (Z)y, having the
sequence X23-G-R-G-X24 and an FG loop, (Z)z, having the sequence X25-X26-R-X27-G-X2 8
X 29-X   30-X 30-X 32, as defined above. In certain embodiments, the DE loop comprises an amino
acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 40, 41, and 43-45 and the FG loop comprises an
amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 47-49, 63, 73, 74, and 78.
In other embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin comprises a BC loop, (Z)x, having the
sequence X 19-X20-P-X       2 1-G-X22-A,   comprises a DE loop, (Z)y, having the sequence X23-G-R
G-X 24 and an FG loop, (Z)z, having the sequence X25-X26-R-X27-G-X28-X29-X30-X30-X32, as
defined above. In certain embodiments, the BC loop comprises an amino acid sequence
selected from SEQ ID NOs: 8-10, 22, 32, 33, and 35, the DE loop comprises an amino acid
sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 40, 41, and 43-45, and the FG loop comprises an
amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 47-49, 63, 73, 74, and 78.
In certain preferred embodiments, an anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises the
sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 5 or 6, wherein BC, DE and FG loops as represented by
(Z)x, (Z)y, and (Z)z, respectively, are replaced with a respective set of BC, DE, and FG loops
having the consensus sequences of SEQ ID NOs: 7-38, 39-45, and 46-79, respectively.
In other preferred embodiments, an anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises the
sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 5 or 6, wherein BC, DE and FG loops as represented by
(Z)x, (Z)y, and (Z)z, respectively, are replaced with a respective set of BC, DE, and FG loops
                                                     30

having sequences at least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, or 99% identical to the BC,
DE or FG loop sequences of the clones listed in Table 1.
In exemplary embodiments, an anti-myostatin Adnectin as described herein is defined by
SEQ ID NO: 5 and has a respective set of BC, DE and FG loop sequences from any of the
clones listed in Table 1. For example, clone 1979_B06 in Table I comprises BC, DE, and FG
loops as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 7, 39, and 46, respectively. Therefore, an anti-myostatin
Adnectin based on these loops may comprise SEQ ID NO: 5 or 6, wherein (Z)x comprises
SEQ ID NO: 7, (Z), comprises SEQ ID NO: 39, and (Z)z comprises SEQ ID NO: 46. Similar
constructs are contemplated utilizing the set of BC, DE and FG loops from the other clones in
Table 1, or the consensus sequences of SEQ ID NOs: 7-38, 39-45, and 46-79, respectively.
The scaffold regions of such anti-myostatin Adnectins may comprise anywhere from 0 to 20,
from 0 to 15, from 0 to 10, from 0 to 8, from 0 to 6, from 0 to 5, from 0 to 4, from 0 to 3,
from 0 to 2, or from 0 to 1 substitutions, conservative substitutions, deletions or additions
relative to the scaffold amino acids residues of SEQ ID NO: 4. Such scaffold modifications
may be made, so long as the anti-myostatin Adnectin is capable of binding myostatin with a
desired KD.
In preferred embodiments, the BC loop of the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention
comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of: SWSLPIAGHVN
(SEQ ID NO: 7), SWVSPRGRAR (SEQ ID NO: 8), SWEVPRGLAR (SEQ ID NO: 9),
SWWAPLGLAR (SEQ ID NO: 10), SWTLPHAGLAH (SEQ ID NO: 11),
SWYLPYPAHMN (SEQ ID NO: 12), SWSLPFAGHLN (SEQ ID NO: 13),
SWSLPYSGLAN (SEQ ID NO: 14), SWSLPHAGHAH (SEQ ID NO: 15), SWTLPNFGLIN
(SEQ ID NO: 16), SWTLPHAGRAH (SEQ ID NO: 17), SWSLPYAGHLN (SEQ ID NO:
18), SWSLPYAAHMN (SEQ ID NO: 19), SWSLPYPGHLN (SEQ ID NO: 20),
SWSLPYAGHAH (SEQ ID NO: 21), SWDAPGGLAR (SEQ ID NO: 22), SWSLPTPGLAH
(SEQ ID NO: 23), SWSLPHRGVAN (SEQ ID NO: 24), SWSLPSSGVAH (SEQ ID NO:
25), SWSLPHHGFGH (SEQ ID NO: 26), SWSLPHAGDAH (SEQ ID NO: 27),
SWSLPHNGVAH (SEQ ID NO: 28), SWSLPRQGLAN (SEQ ID NO: 29),
SWSLPGPGHFH (SEQ ID NO: 30), SWSLPHPGLGH (SEQ ID NO: 31), SWDAPRGLAR
(SEQ ID NO: 32), SWDAPAGLAR (SEQ ID NO: 33), SWSLPHQGKAN (SEQ ID NO: 34),
SWDAPKGLAR (SEQ ID NO: 35), SWSLPNPGIAH (SEQ ID NO: 36), SWSLPRPGNAH
(SEQ ID NO: 37), and SWSLPNPGNAH (SEQ ID NO: 38).
                                                31

 In some embodiments, the BC loop of the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention
comprises the underlined portion of any one of SEQ ID NOs: 7-38, as shown in Table 1. In
one embodiment, the BC loop comprises the underlined portion of SEQ ID NO: 34.
In some embodiments, the DE loop of the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises
an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of: PGRGVT (SEQ ID NO: 39),
PGRGST (SEQ ID NO: 40), LGRGST (SEQ ID NO: 41), PGRGLT (SEQ ID NO: 42),
IGRGST (SEQ ID NO: 43), FGRGTT (SEQ ID NO: 44), and VGRGNT (SEQ ID NO: 45).
In some embodiments, the DE loop of the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises
the underlined portion of any one of SEQ ID NOs: 39-45, as shown in Table 1. In one
embodiment, the DE loop comprises the underlined portion of SEQ ID NO: 39.
In some embodiments, the FG loop of the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises
an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of: TLTKSQMIHYMP (SEQ ID
NO: 46), TIYRDGMSHHDP (SEQ ID NO: 47), TVYRDGPLLLAP (SEQ ID NO: 48),
TIFRTGMVQYDP (SEQ ID NO: 49), TLTNSEIILYKP (SEQ ID NO: 50),
TLTKSQILHHRP (SEQ ID NO: 51), TLTRSKIIHYMP (SEQ ID NO: 52), TLTHSNIIRYVP
(SEQ ID NO: 53), TVSSTKVIVYLP (SEQ ID NO: 54), TITKSTIIIYKP (SEQ ID NO: 55),
TVTTTSVILYKP (SEQ ID NO: 56), TLTKSQLIHYMP (SEQ ID NO: 57),
TLTRSQVIHYMP (SEQ ID NO: 58), TLTKSKIIHYMP (SEQ ID NO: 59),
TVSSTKVIHYKP (SEQ ID NO: 60), TLTKSKVIHYMP (SEQ ID NO: 61),
TVTTTKVIHYKP (SEQ ID NO: 62), TIDRDGVNHFAP (SEQ ID NO: 63),
TVTHHGVIGYKP (SEQ ID NO: 64), TLTGANVIIYKP (SEQ ID NO: 35),
TVTNTGVIIYKP (SEQ ID NO: 66), TVTATGIIIYKP (SEQ ID NO: 67),
TVTRAGFYRYKP (SEQ ID NO: 68), TVTREEVISYKP (SEQ ID NO: 69),
TVTAAGVIIYKP (SEQ ID NO: 70), TVTANQPIIYKP (SEQ ID NO: 71), TITPETIIVYKP
(SEQ ID NO: 72), TIDRDGTRSFDP (SEQ ID NO: 73), TIFRDGPVTWDP (SEQ ID NO:
74), TVTDTGYLKYKP (SEQ ID NO: 75), TLTGSDTIFYKP (SEQ ID NO: 76),
TVTGKDVIKYKP (SEQ ID NO: 77), TIFRDGVVNYGP (SEQ ID NO: 78), and
TVTDTGFITYKP (SEQ ID NO: 79).
In some embodiments, the FG loop of the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises
the underlined portion of any one of SEQ ID NOs: 46-79, as shown in Table 1. In one
embodiment, the FG loop comprises the underlined portion of SEQ ID NO: 75.
                                             32

In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises one BC loop
sequence selected from the BC loop sequences having SEQ ID NOs: 7-38, or the underlined
portion of any one of SEQ ID NOs: 7-38, as shown in Table 1; one DE loop sequence
selected from the DE loop sequences having SEQ ID NOs: 39-45, or the underlined portion
of any one of SEQ ID NOs: 39-45 as shown in Table 1; and one FG loop sequence selected
from the FG loop sequences having SEQ ID NOS: 46-79, or the underlined portion of any
one of SEQ ID NOS: 46-79 as shown in Table 1. In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin
Adnectin of the invention comprises a BC, DE and FG loop amino acid sequence at least
70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to of any one of SEQ ID
NOs: 7-38, 39-45, and 46-79, respectively. In other embodiments, the anti-myostatin
Adnectin of the invention comprises a BC, DE and FG loop amino acid sequence at least
70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to the underlined portion of
any one of SEQ ID NOS: 7-38, 39-45, and 46-79, respectively, as shown in Table 1.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin comprises the amino acid sequence of
any one of SEQ ID NOs: 80-123, 228-239, and 252-273 (full length sequences from Tables 2,
5, and 6). In one embodiment, the anti-myostatin Adnectin comprises the amino acid
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 273.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin comprises an amino acid sequence at
least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to any one of SEQ ID
NOS: 80-123, 228-239, and 252-273. In other embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin
comprise an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical
to the non-BC, DE, and FG loop regions of SEQ ID NOs: 80-123, 228-239, and 252-273.
In one embodiment, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises the BC, DE, and
FG loops as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively. In another embodiment,
the anti-myostatin Adnectin comprises an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%,   9 0 %,
95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ
ID NO: 273 [PRD-1474], SEQ ID NO: 118 [3116_A06], SEQ ID NO: 281 [core Adnectin
sequence shared by PRD-1474 and 3116_A06, preceded by a N-terminal extension sequence
(GVSDVPRDL) and followed by a C-terminal tail (El)] or SEQ ID NO: 331 [core Adnectin
sequence of PRD-1474 and 3116_A06 without an N-terminal leader sequence or C-terminal
tail]. The core Adnectin sequence of PRD-1474 and 3116_A06 is set forth below:
                                              33

EVVAATPTSLLISWSLPHQGKANYYRITYGETGGNSPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG
VDYTITVYAVTVTDTGYLKYKPISNYRT (SEQ ID NO: 331)
In yet another embodiment, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the present invention comprises
an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to the
non-BC, DE, and FG loop regions of SEQ ID NO: 118, 273, 281, or 331.
In one embodiment, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention and disclosed herein can be
described in relation to the anti-myostatin Adnectin comprising BC, DE, and FG loops as set
forth in SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75.
Accordingly, in some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises
the BC, DE, and FG loops as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, wherein
the BC loop comprises 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 amino acid substitutions, such as conservative amino
acid substitutions. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the BC loop is defined by the
consensus sequence X 33-L-P-X34 -X 35-X36-X37-X                  38 -X 3 9 , wherein X 33 is T or Y; X 3 4 is Y, N,
R, F, G, S, or T; X15 is A, P, S, F, H, N, or R; X36 is A; X37 is H, L, R, V, N, D, F, or I; X38 is
L, G, M, F, I, or V; and X 3 9 is H.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises the BC, DE,
and FG loops as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, wherein the DE loop
comprises 1 amino acid substitution, such as a conservative amino acid substitution.
Accordingly, in some embodiments, the DE loop is defined by the consensus sequence G-R
G-X 40 , wherein X 4o is L.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises the BC, DE,
and FG loops as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively wherein the FG loop
comprises 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 amino acid substitutions, such as conservative amino acid
substitutions. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the FG loop is defined by the consensus
sequence X 4 1-X 4 2 -X 43 -X 44 -X 45 -X 4 6 -X 47 -X 48 -X 49 -X50, wherein X 4 1 is L or 1; X 4 2 is S; X43 is K,
R, A, G, S, H, N, T, or P; X44 is S, A, E, H, K, or N; X45 is K, Q, D, E, N, T, or S; X46 is V, I,
F, L, M, P, or T; X 4 7 is I or Y; X4 8 is H, 1, V, L, R, F, G, S, or T; X4 9 is H; and X5 0 is M, L, R,
or V.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises the BC, DE,
and FG loops as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, wherein the BC loop
has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 amino acid substitutions, such as conservative amino acid substitutions,
and the DE loop has I amino acid substitution, such as a conservative amino acid
                                                            34

substitution. In some embodiments, the BC loop has an amino acid sequence according to
the formula X33-L-P-X34-X35-X36 -X37-X38-X 39, wherein X33 is T or Y; X34 is Y, N, R, F, G,
S, or T; X3 5 is A, P, S, F, H, N, or R; X 36 is A; X 3 7 is H, L, R, V, N, D, F, or I; X3 8 is L, G, M,
F, I, or V; and X3 9 is H, and the DE loop has an amino acid sequence according to the
formula G-R-G-X 40 , wherein X4 0 is L.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises the BC, DE,
and FG loops as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, wherein the BC loop
has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 amino acid substitutions, such as conservative amino acid substitutions,
and the FG loop has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 amino acid substitutions, such as conservative
amino acid substitutions. In some embodiments, the BC loop comprises an amino acid
sequence according to the formula X 33-L-P-X         4 -X 35 -X 3 6 -X 37 -X 38 -X 3 9, wherein X33 is T or Y;
X 34 is Y, N, R, F, G, S, or T; X 3 5 is A, P, S, F, H, N, or R; X 36 is A; X37 is H, L, R, V, N, D,
F, or 1; X3 8 is L, G, M, F, I, or V; and X39 is H, and the FG loop comprises an amino acid
sequence according to the formula X 4 1-X42-X43-X44-X4 5-X46 -X47 -X48-X49-X 5 0, wherein X41 is
L or I; X4 2 is S; X4 3 is K, R, A, G, S, H, N, T, or P; X 4 4 is S, A, E, H, K, or N; X 4 5 is K, Q, D,
E, N, T, or S; X 46 is V, 1, F, L, M, P, or T; X47 is I or Y; X 48 is H, I, V, L, R, F, G, S, or T; X 4 9
is H; and X50 is M, L, R, or V.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises the BC, DE,
and FG loops as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, wherein and the DE
loop has 1 amino acid substitution, such as a conservative amino acid substitution, and the
FG loop has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 amino acid substitutions, such as conservative amino acid
substitutions. In some embodiments, the DE loop comprises an amino acid sequence
according to the formula G-R-G-X 40 , wherein X40 is L, and the FG loop has an amino acid
sequence according to the formula X 4 1-X 4 2 -X 43 -X 4 4 -X 4 5 -X 4 6-X 4 7-X 4 8 -X 49 -X5 0 , wherein X 4 1 is
L or I; X4 2 is S; X4 3 is K, R, A, G, S, H, N, T, or P; X 4 4 is S, A, E, H, K, or N; X 4 5 is K, Q, D,
E, N, T, or S; X46 is V, 1, F, L, M, P, or T; X47 is I or Y; X48 is H, I, V, L, R, F, G, S, or T; X49
is H; and X5 0 is M, L, R, or V.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises the BC, DE,
and FG loops as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, wherein the BC loop
has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 amino acid substitutions, such as conservative amino acid substitutions,
and the DE loop has I amino acid substitution, such as a conservative amino acid
substitution, and the FG loop has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 amino acid substitutions, such as
conservative amino acid substitutions. In some embodiments, the BC loop comprises an
                                                    35

amino acid sequence according to the formula X 3 3 -L-P-X 3 4 -X 35-X 3 6 -X 37-X            38  -X 39 , wherein
X33 is T or Y; X 3 4 is Y, N, R, F, G, S, or T; X35 is A, P, S, F, H, N, or R; X36 is A; X37 is H, L,
R, V, N, D, F, or I; X38 is L, G, M, F, I, or V; and X39 is H; the DE loop comprises an amino
acid sequence according to the formula G-R-G-X 40 , wherein X40 is L; and the FG loop has an
amino acid sequence according to the formula X 4 1-X         42 -X 4 3 -X 4 4 -X 4 5-X4 6 -X 4 7 -X 4 8-X49-Xso,
wherein X4 1 is L or I; X 4 2 is S; X 4 3 is K, R, A, G, S, H, N, T, or P; X 4 4 is S, A, E, H, K, or N;
X 4 5 is K, Q, D, E, N, T, or S; X 4 6 is V, I, F, L, M, P, or T; X 4 7 is I or Y; X 4 8 is H, I, V, L, R,
F, G, S, or T; X4 9 is H; and X50 is M, L, R, or V.
In one embodiment, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises the BC, DE, and
FG loops as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 34, 39, and 75, respectively, and has amino acid
substitutions in the BC, DE, and FG loops which allow the anti-myostatin Adnectin to
maintain binding to myostatin. Such amino acid substitutions can be determined by, e.g.,
deep mutational scanning, as described in Example 8.
Accordingly, in some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises a
BC loop comprising an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 51-X 52-X 53 -X 54-X55
X56 -X5 7 -X 58-X 59, wherein: X51 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, F, H, I, K, L,
N,  Q, R, S, T,  V, W, and Y; X 52 is selected from the group consisting of L, M, and V; X 53 is
selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, 1, K, L, M, N, P,              Q, R, S, T, V, and Y; X5 4
is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F,       G, H, I, K, L, M, N, Q, R, S, T, V, W,
and Y; X55 is selected from the group consisting of A,        C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P, Q,
R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X 56 is selected from the group consisting of G and S; X5 7 is selected
from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,               Q, R, S, T,    V, W, and Y; X5 8
is selected from the group consisting of A, C, G, L, M, S, and T; and X59 is selected from the
group consisting of A, C, F, H, N, P, Q, R, S, and Y. In a preferred embodiment, X5 1 is
selected from the group consisting of C, F, I, S, V, W, and Y; X 2 is selected from the group
consisting of L; X 53 is selected from the group consisting of P; X5 4 is selected from the group
consisting of C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,       Q, R, S, T, V,     W, and Y; X55 is selected from
the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X56 is
selected from the group consisting of G; X57 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, G,
H, I, K, L, M, N,    Q, R, S, V, W,   and Y; Xss is selected from the group consisting of A, G, L,
M, and S; and X59 is selected from the group consisting of C, H, N,                 Q, S, and     Y. In a more
preferred embodiment, Xsi is selected from the group consisting of F, S, and W; X52 is
selected from the group consisting of L; X 53 is selected from the group consisting of P; X5 4 is
                                                     36

selected from the group consisting of C, F, G, I, K, L, M, N, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X55 is
selected from the group consisting of A, C, E, F, H, I, K, L, M, P,          Q, R, S, T, V, and Y; X5 6 is
selected from the group consisting of G; X 57 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, H,
K, L, M, N, R, V, W, and Y; X5 8 is selected from the group consisting of A, G, and L; and
X 59 is selected from the group consisting of H, N, and         Q.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises a DE loop
comprising an amino acid sequence according to the formula G-R-G-Xo, wherein X60 is A,
C, D, E, F, I, K, L, M, N,       Q, S, T, and V. In a preferred embodiment, X60 is C, E, I, L, M,     Q,
T, and V. In a more preferred embodiment, X6 o is C, E, I, L, M, and V.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises an FG loop
comprising an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 6 1-X62 -X 63-X 64 -X 6 5-X 66-X 67
X 68 -X 69 -X 7 0 , wherein X6 1 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, I, L, M, Q, T, V,
W, and Y; X6 2 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,           Q, R, S,
T, V, W, and Y; X 63 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M,
N, P,  Q, R,     S, T, V, W, and Y; X6 4 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G,
H, I, K, L, M, N, P,      Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X6 5 is selected from the group consisting of A,
C, D, E, F,     G, H, I, K, L, M, N, Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X 66 is selected from the group
consisting of A, C, F, H, I, L, M, N, P, S, T, V, W, and Y; X67 is selected from the group
consisting of A, C, E, F, H, I, K, L, M, N,        Q, R, S, T,  V, W, and Y; X6 8 is selected from the
group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,         Q, R,  S, T, V, W, and Y; X 69 is
selected from the group consisting of F, W, and Y; and X 7 0 is selected from the group
consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,       Q, R,   S, T, V, W, and Y. In a preferred
embodiment, X 6 1 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, I, L, M, and V; X 62 is selected
from the group consisting of C, F, H, I, L, M,        Q, R, S, T, V, W,   and Y; X 63 is selected from
the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, L, M, N, P,         Q, S, T, V,  W, and Y; X64 is
selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,          Q, R,  S, T, V, W,
and Y; X65 is selected from the group consisting of A, D, E, F, G, H, I, L, M, N,           Q, S, T, V,
W, and Y; X6 6 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, I, L, M, P, T, V, W, and Y; X 67
is selected from the group consisting of C, F, H, 1, K, L, M, N,          Q, R, T, V, W, and Y; X 6 8 is
selected from the group consisting of A, C, E, F, G,         I, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, S, T, V, W, and
Y; X 6 9 is selected from the group consisting of W and Y; and X 70 is selected from the group
consisting of A, C, D, E, G, H, K, L, M, N, P,        Q, R, S, T,   and V. In a more preferred
embodiment, X 6 1 is selected from the group consisting of I and V; X 62 is selected from the
                                                      37

group consisting of C, F, I, L, M, T, V, W, and Y; X 63 is selected from the group consisting
of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, L, M, N,         Q, S,  T, and V; X6 4 is selected from the group consisting of
A, C, D, F, G, I, L, M, N,       Q, S,   T, V, W, and Y; X65 is selected from the group consisting of
A, G, S, T, and W; X6 6 is selected from the group consisting of F, 1, V, W, and Y; X 67 is
selected from the group consisting of F, H, I, L, M, V, W, and Y; X68 is selected from the
group consisting of A, C, F, G, I, K, L, M, T, V, and W; X 69 is selected from the group
consisting of W and Y; and X 70 is selected from the group consisting of A, G, K, L, M, P, Q,
and R.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises BC, DE, and
FG loops, wherein the BC loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula
X 5 1-X 52 -X53 -X54-X 55-X56-X    57 -X58-X59 ,  wherein, X5 1 is selected from the group consisting of
A, C, D, F, H, I, K, L, N,       Q, R,   S, T, V, W, and Y; X52 is selected from the group consisting
of L, M, and V; X 53 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, I, K, L, M, N, P,              Q,
R, S, T, V, and Y; X5 4 is A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,            Q, R, S,  T, V, W, and Y; X5 5 is
selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,              Q, R, S, T, V, W,
and Y; X56 is selected from the group consisting of G and S; X5 7 is A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K,
L, M, N,    Q, R, S,   T, V, W, and Y; X58 is A, C, G, L, M, S, and T; and X 59 is A, C, F, H, N, P,
Q, R,   S, and Y; the DE loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula G
R-G-X 60 , wherein X60 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, I, K, L, M, N,               Q,
S, T, and V; and the FG loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula
X 6 1-X 62-X 63 -X 64-X 6 5-X 66-X 67-X 68-X 69 -X 70 , wherein X 6 1 is selected from the group consisting
of A, C, F, I, L, M,     Q, T,   V, W, and Y; X 62 is A, C, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,       Q, R, S, T, V, W,
and Y; X63 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,               Q,
R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X64 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K,
L, M, N, P,    Q, R,   S, T, V, W, and Y; X65 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E,
F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,       Q, R,   S, T, V, W, and Y; X6 6 is selected from the group consisting of
A, C, F, H, I, L, M, N, P, S, T, V, W, and Y; X 6 7 is selected from the group consisting of A,
C, E, F, H, I, K, L, M, N,       Q, R, S,   T, v, W, and Y; X68 is selected from the group consisting
of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,          Q, R, S, T, V,   W, and Y; X 69 is selected from the
group consisting of F, W, and Y; and X70 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E,
F, G, H, 1, K, L, M, N, P,       Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y.
In a preferred embodiment, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises BC, DE,
and FG loops, wherein the BC loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the
                                                          38

formula X51-X52 -X53 -X 54 -X 55 -X56 -X 7 -X 58 -X 59, wherein, X5 1 is selected from the group
consisting of C, F, I, S, V, W, and Y;      X 52 is L; X 5 3 is P; X5 4 is selected from the group
consisting of C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,       Q, R, S,    T, V, W, and Y; X55 is selected from
the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M, N, P,            Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X56 is
G; X 57 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,            Q, R,  S, V, W, and
Y; X s is selected from the group consisting of A, G, L, M, and S; and X 59 is selected from
the group consisting of C, H, N,     Q, S, and    Y; the DE loop comprises an amino acid sequence
according to the formula G-R-G-X 60 , wherein X60 is selected from the group consisting of C,
E, 1, L, M,  Q, T, and V; and the FG loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the
formula X 61-X 62-X 6 3-X64-X 65-X66 -X67-X68-X69-X70, wherein X 6 1 is selected from the group
consisting of A, C, I, L, M, and V; X62 is C, F, H, I, L, M,          Q, R, S, T, V,  W, and Y; X63 is
selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, L, M, N, P,             Q, S, T, V, W, and
Y; X 64 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,             Q, R, S, T,
V, W, and Y; X65 is selected from the group consisting of A, D, E, F,              G, H, 1, L, M, N, Q, S,
T, V, W, and Y; X 66 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, I, L, M, P, T, V, W, and Y;
X 67 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, H, I, K, L, M, N,            Q, R, T, V,  W, and Y;
X 68 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, E, F, G, I, K, L, M, N, P,           Q, R,  S, T, V, W,
and Y; X69 is selected from the group consisting of W and Y; and X 7o is selected from the
group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,           Q, R,  S, T, V, W, and Y.
In a more preferred embodiment, the anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention comprises BC,
DE, and FG loops, wherein the BC loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the
formula X 51-X 52-X 53-X 54-X 5 5-X 56-X 5 7-X58-X 59, wherein, X5 1 is selected from the group
consisting of F, S, and W; X 52 is L; X 53 is P; X 5 4 is selected from the group consisting of C, F,
G, I, K, L, M, N, R, S, T, V, W, and Y; X55 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, E,
F, H, I, K, L, M, P,  Q, R, S, T, V, and     Y; X-6 is G; X57 is selected from the group consisting
of A, C, H, K, L, M, N, R, V, W, and Y; X58 is selected from the group consisting of A, G,
and L; and X59 is selected from the group consisting of H, N, and Q; the DE loop comprises
an amino acid sequence according to the formula G-R-G-X60 , wherein X60 is selected from
the group consisting of C, E, I, L, M, and V; and the FG loop comprises an amino acid
sequence according to the formula X61-X62-X 6 3-X64-X65-X66-X67 -X68-X69-X70, wherein X61 is
selected from the group consisting of I and V; X 62 is C, F, I, L, M, T, V, W, and Y; X 63 is
selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, L, M, N,             Q, S, T, and V; X6 4 is
selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, F, G, 1, L, M, N,            Q, S,  T, V, W, and Y; X6 5 is
                                                      39

selected from the group consisting of A, G, S, T, and W; X6 6 is selected from the group
consisting of F, 1, V, W, and Y; X6 7 is selected from the group consisting of F, H, I, L, M, V,
W, and Y; X6 8 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, G, I, K, L, M, T, V, and W;
X 69 is selected from the group consisting of W and Y; and X 70 is selected from the group
consisting of A, G, K, L, M, P,   Q, and R.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin is encoded by a nucleic acid sequence as
set forth in any one of SEQ ID NOs: 124-167, 240-25 1, and 284-305 (full length sequences
from Tables 2, 5, and 6). In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin is encoded by a
nucleic acid sequence that is at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100%
identical to any one of SEQ ID NOS: 124-167, 240-25 1, and 284-305.
Fibronectin naturally binds certain types of integrins through its integrin-binding motif,
"arginine-glycine-aspartic acid" (RGD). In some embodiments, the polypeptide comprises a
10Fn3   domain that lacks the (RGD) integrin binding motif. The integrin binding domain may
be removed by altering the RGD sequence by amino acid substitution, deletion or insertion.
In some embodiments, BC, DE and/or FG loop amino acid sequences identical to the
underlined portion of any one of SEQ ID NOS: 7-38, 39-45, and 46-79, respectively, as
shown in Table 1, are grafted into non- 10 Fn3 domain protein scaffolds. For instance, one or
more loop amino acid sequences is exchanged for or inserted into one or more CDR loops of
an antibody heavy or light chain or fragment thereof In other embodiments, the protein
domain into which one or more amino acid loop sequences are exchanged or inserted
includes, but is not limited to, consensus Fn3 domains (Centocor ,US), ankyrin repeat
proteins (Molecular Partners AG, Zurich Switzerland), domain antibodies (Domantis, Ltd,
Cambridge, MA), single domain camelid nanobodies (Ablynx, Belgium), Lipocalins (e.g.,
anticalins; Pieris Proteolab AG, Freising, Germany), Avimers (Amgen, CA), affibodies
(Affibody AG, Sweden), ubiquitin (e.g., affilins; Scil Proteins GmbH, Halle, Germany),
protein epitope mimetics (Polyphor Ltd, Allschwil, Switzerland), helical bundle scaffolds
(e.g. alphabodies, Complix, Belgium), Fyn SH3 domains (Covagen AG, Switzerland), or
atrimers (Anaphor, Inc., CA).
The SEQ ID NOs of the BC, DE and FG loops of the exemplary anti-myostatin Adnectins of
the invention are presented in Table 1.
Table 1
                             Anti-Myostatin Adnectin BC, DE, and FG Loops
                                                   Loop Sequences
                                                 40

Clone        BC Loop SEQ ID   DE Loop SEQ ID      FG Loop  SEQ ID
                        NO:             NO:                  NO:
1979_B06 SWSLPHAGHVN 7      PGRGVT    39     TLTKSQMIHYMP 46
2062_G02 SWVSPRGRAR  8      PGRGST    40     TIYRDGMSHHDP 47
2522_C09 SWEVPRGLAR  9      LGRGST    41     TVYRDGPLLLAP 48
2523_G06 SWWAPLGLAR  10     PGRGST    40     TIFRTGMVQYDP 49
2524_C1I SWTLPHAGLAH 11     PGRGVT    39     TLTNSEIILYKP 50
2524_D09 SWYLIYPAHMN 12     PGRGLT    42     TLTKSOILHHRP 51
2524_E1O SWSLPFAGHLN 13     PGRGVT    39     TLTRSKIIHYMP 52
2524_H05 SWSLPYSGLAN 14     PGRGVT    39     TLTHSNIIRYVP 53
2524_HI1 SWSLPHAGHAH 15     PGRGVT    39     TVSSTKVIVYLP 54
2525_BO  SWTLPNFGLIN 16     PGRGVT    39     TITKSTIIIYKP 55
2525_D02 SWTLPHAGRAH 17     PGRGVT    39     TVTTTSVILYKP 56
2525_DO5 SWSLPYAGHLN 18     PGRGVT    39     TLTKSQLIHYMP 57
2525 F07 SWSLPYAAHMN 19     PGRGVT    39     TLTRSQVIHYMP 58
2987_A06 SWSLPHAGHAH 15     PGRGVT    39     TLTKSKIIHYMP 59
2987_B04 SWSLPYPGHLN 20     PGRGVT    39     TLTKSKIIHYMP 59
2987_B09 SWTLPHAGRAH 17     PGRGVT    39     TLTRSKIIHYMP 52
2987_C02 SWSLPYAGHAH 21     PGRGVT    39     TLTKSKIIHYMP 59
2987_DO5 SWSLPHAGHAH 15     PGRGVT    39     TLTRSKIIHYMP 52
2987_E03 SWSLPYPGHLN 20     PGRGVT    39     TLTRSKIIHYMP 52
2987_E08 SWTLPHAGRAH 17     PGRGVT    39     TVSSTKVIHYKP 60
2987_FO  SWSLPYAGHAH 21     PGRGVT    39     TLTRSKIIHYMP 52
2987_F06 SWSLPHAGHAH 15     PGRGVT    39     TLTKSKVIHYMP 61
2987_G04 SWSLPYPGHLN 20     PGRGVT    39     TLTKSKVIHYMP 61
2987_G09 SWTLPHAGRAH 17     PGRGVT    39     TVSSTKVIVYLP 54
2987_H02 SWSLPYAGHAH 21     PGRGVT    39     TLTKSKVIHYMP 61
2987_H07 SWTLPHAGRAH 17     PGRGVT    39     TVTTTKVIHYKP 62
3006_AlO SWDAPGGLAR  22     IGRGST    43     TIDRDGVNHFAP 63
3007_B08 SWSLPTPGLAH 23     PGRGVT    39     TVTHHGVIGYKP 64
3007_C09 SWSLPHRGVAN 24     PGRGVT    39     TLTGANVIIYKP 65
3007_C1O SWSLPSSGVAH 25     PGRGVT    39     TVTNTGVIIYKP 66
3008_A03 SWSLPHHGFGH 26     PGRGVT    39     TVTATGIIIYKP 67
3008_B08 SWSLPHAGDAH 27     PGRGVT    39     TVTRAGFYRYKP 68
3008_D04 SWSLPHNGVAH 28     PGRGVT    39     TVTREEVISYKP 69
3008_FO1 SWSLPRQGLAN 29     PGRGVT    39     TVTAAGVIIYKP 70
3008_G01 SWSLPGPGHFH 30     PGRGVT    39     TVTANOPIIYKP 71
3008_G03 SWSLPHPGLGH 31     PGRGVT    39     TITPETIIVYKP 72
3115_D04 SWDAPRGLAR  32     FGRGTT    44     TIDRDGTRSFDP 73
3115_E06 SWDAPAGLAR  33     VGRGNT    45     TIFRDGPVTWDP 74
3116_A06 SWSLPHOGKAN 34     PGRGVT    39     TVTDTGYLKYKP 75
3116_A07 SWDAPKGLAR  35     VGRGNT    45     TIFRDGPVTWDP 74
3116_COI SWSLPNPGIAH 36     PGRGVT    39     TLTGSDTIFYKP 76
3116_C06 SWSLPRPGNAH 37     PGRGVT    39     TVTGKDVIKYKP 77
3116_H06 SWDAPAGLAR  33     VGRGNT    45     TIFRDGVVNYGP 78
3146_A08 SWSLPNPGNAH 38     PGRGVT    39     TVTDTGFITYKP 79
                               41

The SEQ ID NOs of exemplary anti-myostatin monoAdnectins of the invention are presented
in Table 2.
Table 2
                                    Anti-Myostatin MonoAdnectins
                                                         Sequence
                            Amino Acid Sequence                   Nucleic Acid Sequence
1979_B06 also         MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS            ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
referred to herein as WSLPHAGHVNYYRITYGETGGN             GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
ATI- 1133             SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG            TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGCATGCT
                      VDYTITVYAVTLTKSQMIHYMPI            GGTCATGTGAACTATTACCGCATCACTTA
(Adnectin core 1      SINYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
sequence having       ID NO: 80)                         CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
AdNT1 (underlined)                                       TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
and AdCT1 (italics)                                      GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
terminal sequence                                        GTCACTCTGACTAAATCTCAGATGATCCA
with His6 tag)                                           TTACATGCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCAC
                                                         AGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATC
                                                         ACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 124)
2062_G02 also         MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS            ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
referred to herein as WVSPRGRARYYRITYGETGGNS             GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
ATI-1134              PVQEFTVPGRGSTATISGLKPGV            TGCTGATCAGCTGGGTTTCTCCGCGTGGT
                      DYTITVYAVTIYRDGMSHHDPISI CGTGCTCGATATTACCGCATCACTTACGG
(Adnectin core 2      NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ             CGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCAG
sequence having       ID NO: 81)                         GAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTTCTAC
AdNT1 (underlined)                                       AGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCG
and AdCT1 (italics)                                      TTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGTCA
terminal sequence                                        CTATCTACCGTGACGGTATGTCTCATCAT
with His6 tag)                                           GACCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACAGA
                                                         AATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCACC
                                                         ACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 125)
2522_C09              MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS            ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                      WEVPRGLARYYRITYGETGGNS             GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 3      PVQEFTVLGRGSTATISGLKPGV            TGCTGATCAGCTGGGAAGTGCCGCGTGGC
sequence having       DYTITVYAVTVYRDGPLLLAPISI           CTAGCTCGATATTACCGCATCACTTACGG
AdNT1 (underlined)    NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ             CGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCAG
and AdCTI (italics)   ID NO: 82)                         GAGTTCACTGTGCTTGGTCGTGGTTCTAC
terminal sequence                                        AGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCG
with His6 tag)                                           TTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGTCA
                                                         CTGTGTACCGTGACGGGCCGTTGCTTCTT
                                                         GCCCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACAGA
                                                         AATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCACC
                                                       I ACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 126)
                                                 42

                                  Anti-Mvostatin MonoAdnectins
                                                      Sequence
                          Amino Acid Sequence                  Nucleic Acid Sequence
2523_G06            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WWAPLGLARYYRITYGETGGNS            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 4    PVQEFTVPGRGSTATISGLKPGV           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTGGGCCCCGCTGGGT
sequence having     DYTITVYAVTIFRTGMVQYDPISI          CTTGCTCGATATTACCGCATCACTTACGG
AdNT1 (underlined)  NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ            CGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCAG
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 83)                        GAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGGGGCTCTAC
terminal sequence                                     AGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCG
with His6 tag)                                        TTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGTCA
                                                      CTATCTTCCGTACGGGCATGGTTCAATAT
                                                      GACCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACAGA
                                                      AATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCACC
                                                      ACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 127)
2524_CIl            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WTLPHAGLAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 5    SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGACTCTGCCGCATGCT
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTNSEIILYKPISI         GGTCTTGCGCACTATTACCGCATCACTTA
AdNT 1 (underlined) NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ            CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 84)                        CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
terminal sequence                                     TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                      GTCACTCTGACTAATTCTGAGATTATCCTT
                                                      TACAAGCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCAC
                                                      AGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATC
                                                      ACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 128)
2524_DO9            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WYLPYPAHMNYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 6    SPVQEFTVPGRGLTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTACCTCCCGTATCCT
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTKSQILHHRPIS          GCGCATATGAACTATTACCGCATCACTTA
AdNT1 (underlined)  INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 85)                        CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGGCGGGGTCT
terminal sequence                                     GACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                      GTCACTCTGACAAAATCTCAGATTCTCCA
                                                      TCATAGGCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                      CAGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCAT
                                                      CACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 129)
2524_E10            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPFAGHLNYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 7    SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCATTGCCGTTTGCTG
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTRSKIIHYMPIS          GTCATTTGAACTATTACCGCATCACTTAC
AdNTI (underlined)  INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           GGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCC
and AdCTl (italics) ID NO: 86)                        AGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGTT
terminal sequence                                     ACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGG
with His6 tag)                                        CGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGT
                                                      CACTCTGACTCGCTCTAAGATTATTCATTA
                                                      TATGCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACAG
                                                      AAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCAC
                                                      CACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 130)
                                               43

                                  Anti-Mvostatin MonoAdnectins
                                                      Sequence
                          Amino Acid Sequence                  Nucleic Acid Sequence
2524_H05            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPYSGLANYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 8    SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCTTATTCTG
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTHSNIIRYVPISI         GCCT'TGCGAACTATTACCGCATCACTTAC
AdNT1 (underlined)  NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ            GGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 87)                        AGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGGGTT
terminal sequence                                     ACAGCTACTATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGG
with His6 tag)                                        CGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGT
                                                      CACTCTGACTCACTCTAATATAAT TCGAT
                                                      ACGTGCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACA
                                                      GAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCA
                                                      CCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 131)
2524_H 1            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPHAGHAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 9    SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCCCTACCGCATGCG
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTVSSTKVIVYLPIS          GGTCATGCGCACTATTACCGCATCACT TA
AdNT1 (underlined)  INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 88)                        CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGAGT
terminal sequence                                     TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCT'TAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                      GTCACTGTGTCTAGTACAAAGGTGATAGT
                                                      TTACCTGCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCAC
                                                      AGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATC
                                                      ACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 132)
2525_BO1            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WTLPNFGLINYYRITYGETGGNS           GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 10   PVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPGV           TGCTGATCAGCTGGACTTTGCCGAATTTC
sequence having     DYTITVYAVTITKSTIIIYKPISINY        GGTCTTATTAATTATTACCGCATCACTTAC
AdNT 1 (underlined) RTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ ID           GGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCC
and AdCT1 (italics) NO: 89)                           AGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGTT
terminal sequence                                     ACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGG
with His6 tag)                                        CGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGT
                                                      CACTATCACCAAATCTACTATCATCATTTA
                                                      CAAGCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACAG
                                                      AAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCAC
                                                      CACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 133)
2525_D02            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WTLPHAGRAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 11   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGACTTTGCCGCATGCT
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTVTTTSVILYKPIS          GGTCGTGCGCACTATTACCGCATCACTTA
AdNT 1 (underlined) INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 90)                        CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGGCGGGGTGT
terminal sequence                                     TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                      GTCACTGTGACGACAACTTCGGTGATCCT
                                                      TTACAAGCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                      CAGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCAT
                                                      CACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 134)
                                               44

                                  Anti-Mvostatin MonoAdnectins
                                                      Sequence
                          Amino Acid Sequence                  Nucleic Acid Sequence
2525_D05            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPYAGHLNYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 12   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTTCCTTATGCTG
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTKSQLIHYMPI           GTCATCTAAACTATTACCGCATCACTTAC
AdNT1 (underlined)  SINYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ          GGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 91)                        AGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGTG
terminal sequence                                     ACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGG
with His6 tag)                                        CGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGT
                                                      CACTCTGACTAAGTCTCAGCTGATACATT
                                                      ACATGCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACA
                                                      GAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCA
                                                      CCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 135)
2525_F07            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPYAAHMNYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 13   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGTATGCT
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTRSQVIHYMPI           GCTCACATGAACTATTACCGCATCACT TA
AdNT1 (underlined)  SINYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ          CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 92)                        CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
terminal sequence                                     TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCT TAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                      GTCACTTTGACTAGATCACAGGTGATTCA
                                                      TTACATGCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCAC
                                                      AGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATC
                                                      ACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 136)
2987_A06            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
                    WSLPHAGHAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTTGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 14   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATTAGCTGGTCACTGCCGCATGCA
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTKSKIIHYMPIS          GGTCATGCACATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
AdNT 1 (underlined) INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 93)                        GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
terminal sequence                                     CCGCAACCATTAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
with His6 tag)                                        GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
                                                      ACCCTGACCAAAAGCAAAATTATTCATTA
                                                      TATGCCGATTAGCATTAATTATCGCACCG
                                                      AAATTGATAAACCGAGCCAGCATCATCAT
                                                      CACCATCAT (SEQ ID NO: 137)
2987_B04            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
                    WSLPYPGHLNYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTTGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 15   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATTAGCTGGTCACTGCCGTATCCG
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTKSKIIHYMPIS          GGTCATCTGAATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
AdNT 1 (underlined) INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 94)                        GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
terminal sequence                                     CCGCAACCAT TAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
with His6 tag)                                        GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
                                                      ACCCTGACCAAAAGCAAAATTATTCATTA
                                                      TATGCCGATTAGCATTAATTATCGCACCG
                                                      AAATTGATAAACCGAGCCAGCATCATCAT
                                                      CACCATCAT (SEQ ID NO: 138)
                                               45

                                  Anti-Mvostatin MonoAdnectins
                                                      Sequence
                          Amino Acid Sequence                  Nucleic Acid Sequence
2987_B09            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
                    WTLPHAGRAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTTGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 16   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATTAGCTGGACCCTGCCGCATGCA
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTRSKIIHYMPIS          GGTCGTGCACATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
AdNT1 (underlined)  INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
and AdCTl (italics) ID NO: 95)                        GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
terminal sequence                                     CCGCAACCATTAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
with His6 tag)                                        GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
                                                      ACCCTGACCCGCAGCAAAATTATTCATTA
                                                      TATGCCGATTAGCATTAATTATCGCACCG
                                                      AAATTGATAAACCGAGCCAGCATCATCAT
                                                      CACCATCAT (SEQ ID NO: 139)
2987_C02            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
                    WSLPYAGHAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTTGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 17   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATTAGCTGGTCACTGCCGTATGCA
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTKSKIIHYMPIS          GGTCATGCACATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
AdNT1 (underlined)  INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 96)                        GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
terminal sequence                                     CCGCAACCATTAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
with His6 tag)                                        GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
                                                      ACCCTGACCAAAAGCAAAATTATTCATTA
                                                      TATGCCGATTAGCATTAATTATCGCACCG
                                                      AAATTGATAAACCGAGCCAGCATCATCAT
                                                      CACCATCAT (SEQ ID NO: 140)
2987_DO5            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
                    WSLPHAGHAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTTGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 18   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATTAGCTGGTCACTGCCGCATGCA
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTRSKIIHYMPIS          GGTCATGCACATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
AdNT 1 (underlined) INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
and AdCTl (italics) ID NO: 97)                        GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
terminal sequence                                     CCGCAACCATTAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
with His6 tag)                                        GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
                                                      ACCCTGACCCGCAGCAAAATTATTCAT TA
                                                      TATGCCGATTAGCATTAATTATCGCACCG
                                                      AAATTGATAAACCGAGCCAGCATCATCAT
                                                      CACCATCAT (SEQ ID NO: 141)
2987_E03            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
                    WSLPYPGHLNYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTTGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 19   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATTAGCTGGTCACTGCCGTATCCG
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTRSKIIHYMPIS          GGTCATCTGAATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
AdNT 1 (underlined) INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 98)                        GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
terminal sequence                                     CCGCAACCAT TAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
with His6 tag)                                        GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
                                                      ACCCTGACCCGCAGCAAAATTATTCATTA
                                                      TATGCCGATTAGCATTAATTATCGCACCG
                                                      AAATTGATAAACCGAGCCAGCATCATCAT
                                                      CACCATCAT (SEQ ID NO: 142)
                                               46

                                  Anti-Mvostatin MonoAdnectins
                                                      Sequence
                          Amino Acid Sequence                  Nucleic Acid Sequence
2987_E08            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
                    WTLPHAGRAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTTGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 20   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATTAGCTGGACCCTGCCGCATGCA
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTVSSTKVIHYKPIS GGTCGTGCACATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
AdNT1 (underlined)  INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
and AdCTl (italics) ID NO: 99)                        GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
terminal sequence                                     CCGCAACCATTAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
with His6 tag)                                        GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
                                                      ACCGTTAGCAGCACCAAAGTGATTCATTA
                                                      TAAACCGATTAGCATTAATTATCGCACCG
                                                      AAATTGATAAACCGAGCCAGCATCATCAT
                                                      CACCATCAT (SEQ ID NO: 143)
2987_F01            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
                    WSLPYAGHAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTTGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 21   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATTAGCTGGTCACTGCCGTATGCA
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTRSKIIHYMPIS          GGTCATGCACATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
AdNT1 (underlined)  INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 100)                       GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
terminal sequence                                     CCGCAACCATTAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
with His6 tag)                                        GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
                                                      ACCCTGACCCGCAGCAAAATTATTCATTA
                                                      TATGCCGATTAGCATTAATTATCGCACCG
                                                      AAATTGATAAACCGAGCCAGCATCATCAT
                                                      CACCATCAT (SEQ ID NO: 144)
2987_F06            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
                    WSLPHAGHAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTTGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 22   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATTAGCTGGTCACTGCCGCATGCA
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTKSKVIHYMPI           GGTCATGCACATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
AdNT 1 (underlined) SINYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ          GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 101)                       GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
terminal sequence                                     CCGCAACCATTAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
with His6 tag)                                        GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
                                                      ACCCTGACCAAAAGCAAAGTGATTCATTA
                                                      TATGCCGATTAGCATTAATTATCGCACCG
                                                      AAATTGATAAACCGAGCCAGCATCATCAT
                                                      CACCATCAT (SEQ ID NO: 145)
2987_G04            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
                    WSLPYPGHLNYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTTGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 23   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATTAGCTGGTCACTGCCGTATCCG
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTKSKVIHYMPI           GGTCATCTGAATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
AdNT 1 (underlined) SINYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ          GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 102)                       GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
terminal sequence                                     CCGCAACCAT TAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
with His6 tag)                                        GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
                                                      ACCCTGACCAAAAGCAAAGTGATTCATTA
                                                      TATGCCGATTAGCATTAATTATCGCACCG
                                                      AAATTGATAAACCGAGCCAGCATCATCAT
                                                      CACCATCAT (SEQ ID NO: 146)
                                               47

                                  Anti-Mvostatin MonoAdnectins
                                                      Sequence
                          Amino Acid Sequence                  Nucleic Acid Sequence
2987_G09            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
                    WTLPHAGRAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTTGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 24   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATTAGCTGGACCCTGCCGCATGCA
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTVSSTKVIVYLPIS          GGTCGTGCACATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
AdNT1 (underlined)  INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 103)                       GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
terminal sequence                                     CCGCAACCATTAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
with His6 tag)                                        GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
                                                      ACCGTTAGCAGCACCAAAGTTATTGTTTA
                                                      TCTGCCGAT TAGCATTAATTATCGCACCG
                                                      AAATTGATAAACCGAGCCAGCATCATCAT
                                                      CACCATCAT (SEQ ID NO: 147)
2987_H02            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
                    WSLPYAGHAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTTGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 25   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATTAGCTGGTCACTGCCGTATGCA
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTKSKVIHYMPI           GGTCATGCACATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
AdNT1 (underlined)  SINYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ          GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 104)                       GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
terminal sequence                                     CCGCAACCATTAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
with His6 tag)                                        GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
                                                      ACCCTGACCAAAAGCAAAGTGATTCATTA
                                                      TATGCCGATTAGCATTAATTATCGCACCG
                                                      AAATTGATAAACCGAGCCAGCATCATCAT
                                                      CACCATCAT (SEQ ID NO: 148)
2987_H07            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
                    WTLPHAGRAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTTGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 26   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATTAGCTGGACCCTGCCGCATGCA
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTVTTTKVIHYKPI           GGTCGTGCACATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
AdNT 1 (underlined) SINYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ          GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 105)                       GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
terminal sequence                                     CCGCAACCATTAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
with His6 tag)                                        GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
                                                      ACCGTTACCACCACCAAAGTGATTCATTA
                                                      TAAACCGATTAGCATTAATTATCGCACCG
                                                      AAATTGATAAACCGAGCCAGCATCATCAT
                                                      CACCATCAT (SEQ ID NO: 149)
3006_A10            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WDAPGGLARYYRITYGETGGNS            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 27   PVQEFTVIGRGSTATISGLKPGVD TGCTGATCAGCTGGGACGCTCCGGGTGGT
sequence having     YTITVYAVTIDRDGVNHFAPISIN          CTGGCTCGATATTACCGCATCACTTACGG
AdNT 1 (underlined) YRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ ID          CGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCAG
and AdCT1 (italics) NO: 106                           GAGTTCACTGTGATCGGTCGTGGTAGCAC
terminal sequence                                     AGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCG
with His6 tag)                                        TTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGTCA
                                                      CTATCGACCGTGACGGTGTCAACCACT TC
                                                      GCCCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACAGA
                                                      AATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCACC
                                                      ACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 150)
                                               48

                                  Anti-Mvostatin MonoAdnectins
                                                      Sequence
                          Amino Acid Sequence                  Nucleic Acid Sequence
3007_B08            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPTPGLAHYYRITYGETGGNS           GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 28   PVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPGV           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGACTCCA
sequence having     DYTITVYAVTVTHHGVIGYKPISI          GGTCTCGCCCATTATTACCGCATCACTTAC
AdNT1 (underlined)  NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ            GGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 107)                       AGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGTT
terminal sequence                                     ACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGG
with His6 tag)                                        CGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGT
                                                      CACTGTCACTCATCACGGCGTCATCGGCT
                                                      ACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACA
                                                      GAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCA
                                                      CCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 151)
3007_C09            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPHRGVANYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 29   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGCACCGT
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTLTGANVIIYKPIS          GGTGTCGCCAATTAT TACCGCATCACTTA
AdNT1 (underlined)  INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 108)                       CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
terminal sequence                                     TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCT TAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                      GTCACTCTCACTGGAGCGAACGTCATCAT
                                                      CTACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                      CAGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCAT
                                                      CACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 152)
3007_C10            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPSSGVAHYYRITYGETGGNS           GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 30   PVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPGV           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGAGCAGC
sequence having     DYTITVYAVTVTNTGVIIYKPISI          GGTGTCGCCCATTATTACCGCATCACTTA
AdNT 1 (underlined) NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ            CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 109)                       CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
terminal sequence                                     TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                      GTCACTGTCACTAACACTGGTGTCATCAT
                                                      CTACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                      CAGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCAT
                                                      CACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 153)
3008_A03            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPHHGFGHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 31   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGCATCAC
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTVTATGIIIYKPISI         GGTTTCGGCCATTATTACCGCATCACTTAC
AdNT 1 (underlined) NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ            GGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 110)                       AGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGTT
terminal sequence                                     ACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCT'TAAACCTGG
with His6 tag)                                        CGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGT
                                                      CACTGTCACTGCTACGGGGATCATCATCT
                                                      ACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACA
                                                      GAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCA
                                                      CCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 154)
                                               49

                                  Anti-Mvostatin MonoAdnectins
                                                      Sequence
                          Amino Acid Sequence                  Nucleic Acid Sequence
3008_B08            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPHAGDAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 32   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGCACGCC
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTVTRAGFYRYKPI           GGTGACGCCCATTATTACCGCATCACTTA
AdNT1 (underlined)  SINYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ          CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 111)                       CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
terminal sequence                                     TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                      GTCACTGTTACTAGAGCGGGTTTCTACCG
                                                      CTACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                      CAGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCAT
                                                      CACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 155)
3008_D04            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPHNGVAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 33   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGCATAAT
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTVTREEVISYKPIS          GGTGTCGCCCATTATTACCGCATCACTTA
AdNT1 (underlined)  INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 112)                       CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
terminal sequence                                     TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCT TAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                      GTCACTGTCACTCGGGAGGAAGTCATCAG
                                                      CTACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                      CAGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCAT
                                                      CACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 156)
3008_FO1            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPRQGLANYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 34   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGCGTCAG
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTVTAAGVIIYKPIS          GGTCTCGCCAATTATTACCGCATCACTTA
AdNT 1 (underlined) INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 113)                       CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
terminal sequence                                     TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                      GTCACTGTCACTGCTGCTGGGGTCATCAT
                                                      CTACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                      CAGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCAT
                                                      CACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 157)
3008_GOI            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPGPGHFHYYRITYGETGGNS           GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 35   PVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPGV           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGGGACCG
sequence having     DYTITVYAVTVTANQPIIYKPISI          GGTCACTTCCATTATTACCGCATCACTTAC
AdNT 1 (underlined) NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ            GGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 114)                       AGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGTT
terminal sequence                                     ACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCT'TAAACCTGG
with His6 tag)                                        CGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGT
                                                      CACTGTCACTGCTAACCAGCCCATCATCT
                                                      ACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACA
                                                      GAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCA
                                                      CCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 158)
                                               50

                                  Anti-Mvostatin MonoAdnectins
                                                      Sequence
                          Amino Acid Sequence                  Nucleic Acid Sequence
3008_G03            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPHPGLGHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 36   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGCACCCC
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTITPETIIVYKPISI         GGTCTCGGCCATTATTACCGCATCACTTA
AdNT1 (underlined)  NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ            CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 115)                       CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
terminal sequence                                     TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                      GTCACTATCACTCCGGAAACGATCATCGT
                                                      CTACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                      CAGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCAT
                                                      CACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 159)
3115_D04            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WDAPRGLARYYRITYGETGGNS            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 37   PVQEFTVFGRGTTATISGLKPGV           TGCTGATCAGCTGGGACGCTCCGAGAGGT
sequence having     DYTITVYAVTIDRDGTRSFDPISI          CTGGCTCGATATTACCGCATCACTTACGG
AdNT1 (underlined)  NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ            CGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCAG
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 116)                       GAGTTCACTGTGTTCGGTCGTGGTACCAC
terminal sequence                                     AGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCG
with His6 tag)                                        TTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGTCA
                                                      CTATCGACCGTGACGGTACCCGCAGCTTC
                                                      GACCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACAGA
                                                      AATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCACC
                                                      ACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 160)
3115_E06            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WDAPAGLARYYRITYGETGGNS            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 38   PVQEFTVVGRGNTATISGLKPGV           TGCTGATCAGCTGGGACGCTCCGGCTGGT
sequence having     DYTITVYAVTIFRDGPVTWDPISI          CTGGCTCGATATTACCGCATCACTTACGG
AdNT 1 (underlined) NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ            CGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCAG
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 117)                       GAGTTCACTGTGGTCGGTCGTGGTAACAC
terminal sequence                                     AGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCG
with His6 tag)                                        TTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGTCA
                                                      CTATCTTCCGTGACGGTCCCGTCACCTGG
                                                      GACCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACAGA
                                                      AATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCACC
                                                      ACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 161)
3116_A06            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPHQGKANYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 39   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGCACCAA
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTVTDTGYLKYKPI           GGTAAAGCCAATTATTACCGCATCACTTA
AdNT 1 (underlined) SINYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ          CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 118)                       CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
terminal sequence                                     TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                      GTCACTGTTACTGATACAGGGTACCTCAA
                                                      GTACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                      CAGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCAT
                                                      CACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 162)
                                               51

                                  Anti-Mvostatin MonoAdnectins
                                                      Sequence
                          Amino Acid Sequence                  Nucleic Acid Sequence
3116_A07            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WDAPKGLARYYRITYGETGGN S GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 40   PVQEFTVVGRGNTATISGLKPGV           TGCTGATCAGCTGGGACGCTCCGAAGGGT
sequence having     DYTITVYAVTIFRDGPVTWDPISI          CTGGCTCGATATTACCGCATCACTTACGG
AdNT1 (underlined)  NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ            CGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCAG
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 119)                       GAGTTCACTGTGGTCGGTCGTGGTAACAC
terminal sequence                                     AGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCG
with His6 tag)                                        TTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGTCA
                                                      CTATCTTCCGTGACGGTCCCGTCACCTGG
                                                      GACCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACAGA
                                                      AATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCACC
                                                      ACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 163)
3116_COI            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPNPGIAHYYRITYGEIGGNS           GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 41   PVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPGV           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGAATCCC
sequence having     DYTITVYAVTLTGSDTIFYKPISI          GGTATCGCCCATTATTACCGCATCACTTA
AdNT1 (underlined)  NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ            CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 120)                       CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
terminal sequence                                     TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCT TAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                      GTCACTCTCACTGGCAGTGACACCATCTT
                                                      CTACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                      CAGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCAT
                                                      CACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 164)
3116_C06            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WSLPRPGNAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 42   SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGCGGCCG
sequence having     VDYTITVYAVTVTGKDVIKYKPI           GGTAACGCCCATTATTACCGCATCACTTA
AdNT 1 (underlined) SINYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ          CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 121)                       CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
terminal sequence                                     TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                      GTCACTGTTACTGGCAAAGATGTCATCAA
                                                      GTACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                      CAGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCAT
                                                      CACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 165)
3116_H06            MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                    WDAPAGLARYYRITYGETGGNS            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 43   PVQEFTVVGRGNTATISGLKPGV           TGCTGATCAGCTGGGACGCTCCGGCTGGT
sequence having     DYTITVYAVTIFRDGVVNYGPISI          CTGGCTCGATATTACCGCATCACTTACGG
AdNT 1 (underlined) NYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ            CGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCAG
and AdCT1 (italics) ID NO: 122)                       GAGTTCACTGTGGTCGGTCGTGGTAACAC
terminal sequence                                     AGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCG
with His6 tag)                                        TTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGTCA
                                                      CTATCTTCCGTGACGGTGTCGTCAACTAC
                                                      GGCCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACAGA
                                                      AATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCATCACC
                                                      ACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 166)
                                               52

                                   Anti-Mvostatin MonoAdnectins
                                                       Sequence
                           Amino Acid Sequence                     Nucleic Acid Sequence
3146_A08             MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS           ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                     WSLPNPGNAHYYRITYGETGGN            GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
(Adnectin core 44    SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG           TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGAATCCG
sequence having      VDYTITVYAVTVTDTGFITYKPIS          GGTAACGCCCATTATTACCGCATCACTTA
AdNT1 (underlined)   INYRTEIDKPSQHHHHHH (SEQ           CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
and AdCT1 (italics)  ID NO: 123)                       CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
terminal sequence                                      TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
with His6 tag)                                         GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                       GTCACTGTTACTGACACAGG TTTCATCAC
                                                       GTACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                       CAGAAATTGACAAACCATCCCAGCACCAT
                                                       CACCACCACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 167)
Cross-Competing Adnectins and/or Adnectins that Bind to the Same Adnectin Binding Site
In one embodiment, Adnectins of the invention compete (e.g., cross-compete) for binding to
myostatin with the particular anti-myostatin Adnectins described herein. Such competing
Adnectins can be identified based on their ability to competitively inhibit binding to
myostatin of Adnectins described herein in standard myostatin binding assays. For example,
standard ELISA assays can be used in which a recombinant myostatin protein is immobilized
on the plate, one of the Adnectins is fluorescently labeled and the ability of non-labeled
Adnectins to compete off the binding of the labeled Adnectin is evaluated.
In one embodiment, a competitive ELISA format can be performed to determine whether two
anti-myostatin Adnectins bind overlapping Adnectin binding sites on myostatin. In one
format, Adnectin #1 is coated on a plate, which is then blocked and washed. To this plate is
added either myostatin alone, or myostatin pre-incubated with a saturating concentration of
Adnectin #2. After a suitable incubation period, the plate is washed and probed with a
polyclonal anti-myostatin antibody, such as a biotinylated goat anti-myostatin polyclonal
antibody (R&D Systems), followed by detection with streptavidin-HRP conjugate and
standard tetramethylbenzidine development procedures. If the OD signal is the same with or
without preincubation with Adnectin #2, then the two Adnectins bind independently of one
another, and their Adnectin binding sites do not overlap. If, however, the OD signal for wells
that received myostatin/Adnectin#2 mixtures is lower than for those that received myostatin
alone, then binding of Adnectin #2 is confirmed to block binding of Adnectin #1 to
myostatin.
Alternatively, a similar experiment is conducted by surface plasmon resonance (SPR, e.g.,
BlAcore). Adnectin #1 is immobilized on an SPR chip surface, followed by injections of
                                                53

either myostatin alone or myostatin pre-incubated with a saturating concentration of Adnectin
#2. If the binding signal for myostatin/Adnectin#2 mixtures is the same or higher than that of
myostatin alone, then the two Adnectins bind independently of one another, and their
Adnectin binding sites do not overlap. If, however, the binding signal for
myostatin/Adnectin#2 mixtures is lower than the binding signal for myostatin alone, then
binding of Adnectin #2 is confirmed to block binding of Adnectin #1 to myostatin. A feature
of these experiments is the use of saturating concentrations of Adnectin #2. If myostatin is
not saturated with Adnectin #2, then the conclusions above do not hold. Similar experiments
can be used to determine if any two myostatin binding proteins bind to overlapping Adnectin
binding sites.
Both assays exemplified above may also be performed in the reverse order where Adnectin#2
is immobilized and myostatin -Adnectin#1 are added to the plate. Alternatively, Adnectin #1
and/or #2 can be replaced with a monoclonal antibody and/or soluble receptor-Fc fusion
protein.
In another embodiment, competition can be determined using a HTRF sandwich assay, as
described in Example 4.
In other embodiments, the competing Adnectin is an Adnectin that binds to the same
Adnectin binding site on myostatin as a particular anti-myostatin Adnectin described herein.
Standard mapping techniques, such as protease mapping, mutational analysis, x-ray
crystallography and 2-dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance, can be used to determine
whether an Adnectin binds to the same Adnectin binding site as a reference Adnectin (see,
e.g., Epitope Mapping Protocolsin Methods in Molecular Biology, Vol. 66, G. E. Morris, Ed.
(1996)).
Candidate competing anti-myostatin Adnectins can inhibit the binding of anti-myostatin
Adnectins of the invention to myostatin by at least 50%, at least 55%, at least 60%, at least
65%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least
97%, at least 98%, or at least 99%. The % competition can be determined using the methods
described above.
In some embodiments, molecules that compete with the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the
invention need not be an Adnectin, but can be any type of molecule that binds to myostatin,
such as, but not limited to, an antibody, a small molecule, a peptide, and the like.
                                                54

In some embodiments, Adnectins of the invention bind to a discontinuous Adnectin binding
site on myostatin. In some embodiments, the polypeptides bind a region within amino acids
55-66 of myostatin (SEQ ID NO: 3). In some embodiments, the polypeptides bind a region
within amino acids 85-101 of myostatin (SEQ ID NO: 3). In yet other embodiments, the
polypeptides bind within two regions, amino acids 85-101 and 55-66, of myostatin (SEQ ID
NO: 3).
In some embodiments, the polypeptides of the invention do not compete for binding to
myostatin with ActRIIB. In some embodiments, the polypeptides of the invention compete
for binding to myostatin with ALK4 and/or ALK5.
H1.      Extension Sequences
In certain embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin molecules of the present invention may
be modified to comprise an N-terminal extension sequence and/or a C-terminal extension.
For example, an MG sequence may be placed at the N-terminus of the       10Fn3 defined by SEQ
ID NO: 4. The M will usually be cleaved off, leaving a G at the N-terminus. Alternatively,
the first 10 amino acids of the anti-myostatin Adnectins shown in Table 2 may be replaced
with an alternative N-terminal sequence, referred to herein as N-terminal extensions, as
shown in Table 7. In addition, an M, G or MG may also be placed N-terminal to any of the
N-terminal extensions shown in Table 7. The anti-myostatin Adnectins described herein may
also comprise alternative C-terminal tail sequences, referred to herein as C-terminal extension
sequences. For example, the anti-myostatin Adnectin sequences shown in Table 2 may be
truncated at the threonine corresponding to T94 of SEQ ID NO: 4 (i.e., truncated after
INYRT (SEQ ID NO: 168) portion of the sequence). Such truncated version may be used as
therapeutic molecules in the truncated form, or alternative C-terminal extensions may be
added after the threonine residue. Exemplary C-terminal extension sequences are shown in
Table 7. Exemplary anti-myostatin Adnectins comprising C-terminal extension sequences are
shown in Table 2 as SEQ ID NOs: 80-123. For example, SEQ ID NO: 80 (clone 1979_B06)
comprises the naturally occurring C-terminal extension EIDKPSQ (SEQ ID NO: 211)
followed by a His6 tag (SEQ ID NO: 328). However, it should be understood that the His6
tag is completely optional.
In certain embodiments, the C-terminal extension sequences (also called "tails"), comprise E
and D residues, and may be between 8 and 50, 10 and 30, 10 and 20, 5 and 10, and 2 and 4
amino acids in length. In some embodiments, tail sequences include ED-based linkers in
                                               55

which the sequence comprises tandem repeats of ED. In exemplary embodiments, the tail
sequence comprises 2-10, 2-7, 2-5, 3-10, 3-7, 3-5, 3, 4 or 5 ED repeats. In certain
embodiments, the ED-based tail sequences may also include additional amino acid residues,
such as, for example: El, EID, ES, EC, EGS, and EGC. Such sequences are based, in part, on
known Adnectin tail sequences, such as EIDKPSQ (SEQ ID NO: 211), in which residues D
and K have been removed. In exemplary embodiments, the ED-based tail comprises an E, I or
El residues before the ED repeats.
In other embodiments, the N- or C-terminal sequences may be combined with known linker
sequences (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 181-227 in Table 4) as necessary when designing an anti
myostatin Adnectin fusion molecule. In some embodiments, sequences may be placed at the
C-terminus of the   10Fn3 domain to facilitate attachment of a pharmacokinetic moiety. For
example, a cysteine containing linker such as GSGC (SEQ ID NO: 189) may be added to the
C-terminus to facilitate site directed PEGylation on the cysteine residue. Exemplary anti
myostatin Adnectins comprising a cysteine containing linker are shown in Table 5 as SEQ ID
NOs: 228-239.
111.    Pharmacokinetic Moieties
In one aspect, the application provides for anti-myostatin Adnectins further comprising a
pharmacokinetic (PK) moiety. Improved pharmacokinetics may be assessed according to the
perceived therapeutic need. Often it is desirable to increase bioavailability and/or increase the
time between doses, possibly by increasing the time that a protein remains available in the
serum after dosing. In some instances, it is desirable to improve the continuity of the serum
concentration of the protein over time (e.g., decrease the difference in serum concentration of
the protein shortly after administration and shortly before the next administration). The anti
myostatin Adnectin may be attached to a moiety that reduces the clearance rate of the
polypeptide in a mammal (e.g., mouse, rat, or human) by greater than two-fold, greater than
three-fold, greater than four-fold or greater than five-fold relative to the unmodified anti
myostatin Adnectin. Other measures of improved pharmacokinetics may include serum half
life, which is often divided into an alpha phase and a beta phase. Either or both phases may
be improved significantly by addition of an appropriate moiety. For example, the PK moiety
may increase the serum half-life of the polypeptide by more than 5, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70,
80, 90, 100, 120, 150, 200, 400, 600, 800, 1000% or more relative to the Fn3 domain alone.
                                                 56

Moieties that slow clearance of a protein from the blood, herein referred to as "PK moieties",
include polyoxyalkylene moieties (e.g., polyethylene glycol), sugars (e.g., sialic acid), and
well-tolerated protein moieties (e.g., Fc and fragments and variants thereof, transferrin, or
serum albumin). The anti-myostatin Adnectin may also be fused to albumin or a fragment
(portion) or variant of albumin as described in U.S. Publication No. 2007/0048282, or may be
fused to one or more serum albumin binding Adnectin, as described herein.
Other PK moieties that can be used in the invention include those described in Kontermann et
al., (Current Opinion in Biotechnology 2011;22:868-76), herein incorporated by reference.
Such PK moieties include, but are not limited to, human serum albumin fusions, human
serum albumin conjugates, human serum albumin binders (e.g., Adnectin PKE, AlbudAb,
ABD), XTEN fusions, PAS fusions (i.e., recombinant PEG mimetics based on the three
amino acids proline, alanine, and serine), carbohydrate conjugates (e.g., hydroxyethyl starch
(HES)), glycosylation, polysialic acid conjugates, and fatty acid conjugates.
Accordingly, in some embodiments the invention provides an anti-myostatin Adnectin fused
to a PK moiety that is a polymeric sugar. In some embodiments, the PK moiety is a
polyethylene glycol moiety or an Fc region. In some embodiments the PK moiety is a serum
albumin binding protein such as those described in U.S. Publication Nos. 2007/0178082 and
2007/0269422. In some embodiments the PK moiety is human serum albumin. In some
embodiments, the PK moiety is transferrin.
Polyethylene glycol
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin comprises polyethylene glycol (PEG).
PEG is a well-known, water soluble polymer that is commercially available or can be
prepared by ring-opening polymerization of ethylene glycol according to methods well
known in the art (Sandler and Karo, Polymer Synthesis, Academic Press, New York, Vol. 3,
pages 138-161). The term "PEG" is used broadly to encompass any polyethylene glycol
molecule, without regard to size or to modification at an end of the PEG, and can be
represented by the formula: X-O(CH 2CH 2O),.1CH 2CH 2OH, where n is 20 to 2300 and X is
H or a terminal modification, e.g., a C14 alkyl. PEG can contain further chemical groups
which are necessary for binding reactions, which result from the chemical synthesis of the
molecule; or which act as a spacer for optimal distance of parts of the molecule. In addition,
such a PEG can consist of one or more PEG side-chains which are linked together. PEGs
with more than one PEG chain are called multiarmed or branched PEGs. Branched PEGs are
                                                57

described in, for example, European Published Application No. 473084A and U.S. Pat. No.
5,932,462.
One or more PEG molecules may be attached at different positions on the protein, and such
attachment may be achieved by reaction with amines, thiols or other suitable reactive groups.
The amine moiety may be, for example, a primary amine found at the N-terminus of a
polypeptide or an amine group present in an amino acid, such as lysine or arginine. In some
embodiments, the PEG moiety is attached at a position on the polypeptide selected from the
group consisting of: a) the N-terminus; b) between the N-terminus and the most N-terminal
beta strand or beta-like strand; c) a loop positioned on a face of the polypeptide opposite the
target-binding site; d) between the C-terminus and the most C-terminal beta strand or beta
like strand; and e) at the C-terminus.
PEGylation may be achieved by site-directed PEGylation, wherein a suitable reactive group
is introduced into the protein to create a site where PEGylation preferentially occurs. In some
embodiments, the protein is modified to introduce a cysteine residue at a desired position,
permitting site-directed PEGylation on the cysteine. Mutations may be introduced into a
protein coding sequence to generate cysteine residues. This might be achieved, for example,
by mutating one or more amino acid residues to cysteine. Preferred amino acids for mutating
to a cysteine residue include serine, threonine, alanine and other hydrophilic residues.
Preferably, the residue to be mutated to cysteine is a surface-exposed residue. Algorithms are
well-known in the art for predicting surface accessibility of residues based on primary
sequence or a protein. Alternatively, surface residues may be predicted by comparing the
amino acid sequences of binding polypeptides, given that the crystal structure of the
framework, based on which binding polypeptides are designed and evolved, has been solved
(see Himanen et al., Nature 2001;414:933-8) and thus the surface-exposed residues
identified. PEGylation of cysteine residues may be carried out using, for example, PEG
maleimide, PEG-vinylsulfone, PEG-iodoacetamide, or PEG-orthopyridyl disulfide.
The PEG is typically activated with a suitable activating group appropriate for coupling to a
desired site on the polypeptide. PEGylation methods are well-known in the art and further
described in Zalipsky, S., et al., "Use of Functionalized Poly(Ethylene Glycols) for
Modification of Polypeptides" in Polyethylene Glycol Chemistry: Biotechnical and
Biomedical Applications, J. M. Harris, Plenus Press, New York (1992), and in Zalipsky
(1995) Advanced DrugReviews 16: 157-182.
                                                 58

PEG may vary widely in molecular weight and may be branched or linear. Typically, the
weight-average molecular weight of PEG is from about 100 Daltons to about 150,000
Daltons. Exemplary weight-average molecular weights for PEG include about 20,000
Daltons, about 40,000 Daltons, about 60,000 Daltons and about 80,000 Daltons. In certain
embodiments, the molecular weight of PEG is 40,000 Daltons. Branched versions of PEG
having a total molecular weight of any of the foregoing can also be used. In some
embodiments, the PEG has two branches. In other embodiments, the PEG has four branches.
In another embodiment, the PEG is a bis-PEG (NOF Corporation, DE-200MA), in which two
Adnectins are conjugated (see, e.g., Example 1 and ATI-1341 of Table 5).
Conventional separation and purification techniques known in the art can be used to purify
PEGylated anti-myostatin Adnectins, such as size exclusion (e.g., gel filtration) and ion
exchange chromatography. Products may also be separated using SDS-PAGE. Products that
may be separated include mono-, di-, tri-, poly- and un-PEGylated Adnectins, as well as free
PEG. The percentage of mono-PEG conjugates can be controlled by pooling broader
fractions around the elution peak to increase the percentage of mono-PEG in the composition.
About 90% mono-PEG conjugates represent a good balance of yield and activity.
In some embodiments, the PEGylated anti-myostatin Adnectins will preferably retain at least
about 25%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or 100% of the biological activity
associated with the unmodified anti-myostatin Adnectin. In some embodiments, biological
activity refers to its ability to bind to myostatin, as assessed by KD, kon, or koff. In some
embodiments, the PEGylated anti-myostatin Adnectin shows an increase in binding to
myostatin relative to unPEGylated anti-myostatin Adnectin.
Exemplary PEG-modified anti-myostatin Adnectins are shown in Table 5.
Immunoglobulin Fc domain (andfragments)
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin is fused to an immunoglobulin Fc
domain, or a fragment or variant thereof As used herein, a "functional Fc region" is an Fc
domain or fragment thereof which retains the ability to bind FcRn. In some embodiments, a
functional Fc region binds to FcRn, bud does not possess effector function. The ability of the
Fc region or fragment thereof to bind to FcRn can be determined by standard binding assays
known in the art. In other embodiments, the Fc region or fragment thereof binds to FcRn and
possesses at least one "effector function" of a native Fc region. Exemplary "effector
functions" include Clq binding; complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC); Fc receptor
                                                  59

binding; antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC); phagocytosis; down
regulation of cell surface receptors (e.g., B cell receptor; BCR), etc. Such effector functions
generally require the Fc region to be combined with a binding domain (e.g., an anti-myostatin
Adnectin) and can be assessed using various assays known in the art for evaluating such
antibody effector functions.
A "native sequence Fc region" comprises an amino acid sequence identical to the amino acid
sequence of an Fc region found in nature. A "variant Fec region" comprises an amino acid
sequence which differs from that of a native sequence Fc region by virtue of at least one
amino acid modification. Preferably, the variant Fc region has at least one amino acid
substitution compared to a native sequence Fc region or to the Fc region of a parent
polypeptide, e.g., from about one to about ten amino acid substitutions, and preferably from
about one to about five amino acid substitutions in a native sequence Fc region or in the Fc
region of the parent polypeptide. The variant Fc region herein will preferably possess at least
about 80% sequence identity with a native sequence Fc region and/or with an Fc region of a
parent polypeptide, and most preferably at least about 90% sequence identity therewith, more
preferably at least about 95% sequence identity therewith.
In an exemplary embodiment, the Fc domain is derived from an IgGI subclass, however,
other subclasses (e.g., IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4) may also be used. Shown below is the sequence
of a human IgGI immunoglobulin Fc domain:
DKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWY
VDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIE
KTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENN
YKT TPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPG
K (SEQ ID NO: 169)
The core hinge sequence is underlined, and the CH2 and CH3 regions are in regular text. It
should be understood that the C-terminal lysine is optional.
The fusion may be formed by attaching an anti-myostatin Adnectin to either end of the Fc
molecule, i.e., Fc-anti-myostatin Adnectin or anti-myostatin Adnectin-Fc arrangements. In
certain embodiments, the Fc and anti-myostatin Adnectin are fused via a linker. Exemplary
linker sequences include GAGGGGSG (SEQ ID NO: 181), EPKSSD (SEQ ID NO: 182), D,
ESPKAQASSVPTAQPQAEGLA (SEQ ID NO: 183), ELQLEESAAEAQDGELD (SEQ ID
NO: 184), GQPDEPGGS (SEQ ID NO: 185), GGSGSGSGSGSGS (SEQ ID NO: 186),
                                                 60

ELQLEESAAEAQEGELE (SEQ ID NO: 187), GSGSG (SEQ ID NO: 188), GSGC (SEQ ID
NO: 189), AGGGGSG (SEQ ID NO: 190), GSGS (SEQ ID NO: 191), QPDEPGGS (SEQ ID
NO: 192), GSGSGS (SEQ ID NO: 193), TVAAPS (SEQ ID NO: 194), KAGGGGSG (SEQ
ID NO: 195), KGSGSGSGSGSGS (SEQ ID NO: 196), KQPDEPGGS (SEQ ID NO: 197),
KELQLEESAAEAQDGELD (SEQ ID NO: 198), KTVAAPS (SEQ ID NO: 199),
KAGGGGSGG (SEQ ID NO: 200), KGSGSGSGSGSGSG (SEQ ID NO: 201),
KQPDEPGGSG (SEQ ID NO: 202), KELQLEESAAEAQDGELDG (SEQ ID NO: 203),
KTVAAPSG (SEQ ID NO: 204) AGGGGSGG (SEQ ID NO: 205), AGGGGSG (SEQ ID
NO: 206), GSGSGSGSGSGSG (SEQ ID NO: 207), QPDEPGGSG (SEQ ID NO: 208), and
TVAAPSG (SEQ ID NO: 209).
In some embodiments, the Fc region used in the anti-myostatin Adnectin fusion comprises
the hinge region of an Fc molecule. As used herein, the "hinge" region comprises the core
hinge residues spanning positions 1-16 of SEQ ID NO: 169 (DKTHTCPPCPAPELLG; SEQ
ID NO: 170) of the IgGI Fc region. In certain embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectin-Fc
fusion adopts a multimeric structure (e.g., dimer) owing, in part, to the cysteine residues at
positions 6 and 9 of SEQ ID NO: 169 within the hinge region. In other embodiments, the
hinge region as used herein, may further include residues derived from the CHI and CH2
regions that flank the core hinge sequence, as shown in SEQ ID NO: 169. In yet other
embodiments, the hinge sequence is GSTHTCPPCPAPELLG (i.e., hinge sequence for PRD
932; SEQ ID NO: 180).
In some embodiments, the hinge sequence, may include substitutions that confer desirable
pharmacokinetic, biophysical, and/or biological properties. Some exemplary hinge sequences
include EPKSSDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPS (SEQ ID NO: 171; core hinge region
underlined), EPKSSDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGSS (SEQ ID NO 172; core hinge region
underlined), EPKSSGSTHTCPPCPAPELLGGSS (SEQ ID NO: 173; core hinge region
underlined), DKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPS (SEQ ID NO: 174; core hinge region underlined),
and DKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGSS (SEQ ID NO: 175; core hinge region underlined). In one
embodiment, the residue P at position 18 of SEQ ID NO: 169 has been replaced with S to
ablate Fc effector function; this replacement is exemplified in hinges having any one of SEQ
ID NOs: 172, 173, and 175. In another embodiment, the residues DK at positions 1-2 of SEQ
ID NO: 169 have been replaced with GS to remove a potential clip site; this replacement is
exemplified in SEQ ID NO: 173. In another embodiment, the C at position 103 of SEQ ID
NO: 176, which corresponds to the heavy chain constant region of human IgGI (i.e., domains
                                               61

CH1-CH3), has been replaced with S to prevent improper cysteine bond formation in the
absence of a light chain; this replacement is exemplified in SEQ ID NOs: 171-173.
ASTKGPSVFPLAPSSKSTSGGTAALGCLVKDYFPEPVTVSWNSGALTSGVHTFPAVL
QSSGLYSLSSVVTVPSSSLGTQTYICNVNHKPSNTKVDKKVEPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAP
ELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKT
KPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREP
QVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGS
FFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK                               (SEQ ID NO: 176)
In certain embodiments, an anti-myostatin Adnectin-Fc fusion may have the following
configurations: 1) anti-myostatin Adnectin-hinge-Fc or 2) hinge-Fc-anti-myostatin Adnectin.
Therefore, any anti-myostatin Adnectin of the present invention can be fused to an Fec region
comprising a hinge sequence according to these configurations. In some embodiments, a
linker may be used to join the anti-myostatin Adnectin to the hinge-Fc moiety, for example,
an exemplary fusion protein may have the configuration anti-myostatin Adnectin-linker
hinge-Fc or hinge-Fc-linker-anti-myostatin Adnectin. Additionally, depending on the system
in which the fusion polypeptide is produced, a leader sequence may placed at the N-terminus
of the fusion polypeptide. For example, if the fusion is produced in a mammalian system, a
leader sequence such as METDTLLLWVLLLWVPGSTG (SEQ ID NO: 177) may be added
to the N-terminus of the fusion molecule. If the fusion is produced in E. coli, the fusion
sequence will be preceded by a methionine.
The following sequence exemplifies an anti-myostatin Adnectin-hinge-Fc construct:
GVSDVPRDLEVVAA TPTSLLISWTLPHA GRAHYYRITYGETGGNSP VQEFTVPGRGVTA TI
SGLKPG VD YTITVYA VTVTTTKVIHYKPISINYRTEIEPKS SDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPS VF
LFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYN
STYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPS
RDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLT
VDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK                           (PRD-1171; SEQ ID NO: 253).
The leader sequence is in bold, the anti-myostatin Adnectin sequence is in italics, and the
hinge region is underlined. It should be understood that the C-terminal lysine is optional.
Here, the Fc domain comprises the human IgG1 CH2 and CH3 regions as follows:
VFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQ
YNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLP
                                               62

PSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKL
TVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK                           (SEQ ID NO: 178) and the
hinge sequence DKTHTCPPCPAPELLG (SEQ ID NO: 170).
The following sequence exemplifies an Fc-anti-myostatin Adnectin construct:
DKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWY
VDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIE
KTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENN
YKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPEL
QLEESAAEAQEGELEGVSDVPRDLEVVAA                    TPTSLLISWSLPHQGKANYYRITYGETGGNS
PVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPGVDYTITVYAVTVTDTGYLKYKPISINYRTEI                          (PRD-1474;
SEQ ID NO: 273). The hinge region is underlined, the leader sequence is in bold, and the
anti-myostatin Adnectin sequence is in italics.
Here, the Fec domain comprises the human IgGI CH2 and CH-3 regions as follows:
VFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQ
YNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLP
PSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKL
TVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSP                          (SEQ ID NO: 179) and the hinge
sequence DKTHTCPPCPAPELLG (SEQ ID NO: 170).
Exemplary anti-myostatin Adnectin-Fc fusions and Fc-anti-myostatin Adnectin fusions are
shown in Table 6 (SEQ ID NOs: 252-273). All sequences may begin with a methionine or a
mammalian leader sequence (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 177).
Adnectins
In some embodiments the PK moiety is another Adnectin specific, for example, to a serum
protein (e.g., human serum albumin), as described in US 2012/0094909, herein incorporated
by reference in its entirety. Other PK moieties that may be used with the Adnectins of the
invention are disclosed in Kontermann et al. (Current Opinion in Biotechnology
2011;22:868-76), as discussed supra. By way of example, such Adnectin based PK moieties
may be directly or indirectly linked to an anti-myostatin Adnectin via a polypeptide linker.
Suitable linkers for joining Fn3 domains are those which allow the separate domains to fold
independently of each other and form a three dimensional structure that permits high affinity
binding to a target molecule. Exemplary polypeptide linkers include PSTSTST (SEQ ID NO:
210), EIDKPSQ (SEQ ID NO: 211), and GS linkers, such as GSGSGSGSGS (SEQ ID NO:
                                                63

213) and multimers thereof. In some embodiments, the linker is a glycine-serine based
linker. These linkers comprise glycine and serine residues and may be between 8 and 50, 10
and 30, and 10 and 20 amino acids in length. Examples include linkers having an amino acid
sequence (GS)7 (SEQ ID NO: 215), G(GS)6 (SEQ ID NO: 216), and G(GS)7G (SEQ ID NO:
217). Other linkers contain glutamic acid, and include, for example, (GSE) 5 (SEQ ID NO:
218) and GGSEGGSE (SEQ ID NO: 219). Other exemplary glycine-serine linkers include
(GS)4 (SEQ ID NO: 212), (GGGGS) 7 (SEQ ID NO: 220), (GGGGS)5 (SEQ ID NO: 221), and
(GGGGS) 3G (SEQ ID NO: 222). In some embodiments, the linker is a glycine-proline based
linker. These linkers comprise glycine and proline residues and may be between 3 and 30, 10
and 30, and 3 and 20 amino acids in length. Examples include linkers having an amino acid
sequence (GP)3 G (SEQ ID NO: 223), (GP) 5 G (SEQ ID NO: 224), and GPG. In other
embodiments, the linker may be a proline-alanine based linker having between 3 and 30, 10
and 30, and 3 and 20 amino acids in length. Examples of proline alanine based linkers
include, for example, (PA) 3 (SEQ ID NO: 225), (PA) 6 (SEQ ID NO: 226) and (PA) 9 (SEQ ID
NO: 227). Optimal linker length and amino acid composition may be determined by routine
experimentation in view of the teachings provided herein. In some embodiments, an anti
myostatin Adnectin is linked, for example, to an anti-HSA Adnectin via a polypeptide linker
having a protease site that is cleavable by a protease in the blood or target tissue. Such
embodiments can be used to release an anti-myostatin Adnectin for better delivery or
therapeutic properties or more efficient production.
Additional linkers or spacers, may be introduced at the N-terminus or C-terminus of a Fn3
domain between the Fn3 domain and the polypeptide linker.
In some embodiments, an anti-myostatin Adnectin may be directly or indirectly linked for
example, to an anti-HSA Adnectin via a polymeric linker. Polymeric linkers can be used to
optimally vary the distance between each component of the fusion to create a protein fusion
with one or more of the following characteristics: 1) reduced or increased steric hindrance of
binding of one or more protein domains when binding to a protein of interest, 2) increased
protein stability or solubility, 3) decreased protein aggregation, and 4) increased overall
avidity or affinity of the protein.
In some embodiments, an anti-myostatin Adnectin is linked, for example, to an anti-HSA
Adnectin, via a biocompatible polymer such as a polymeric sugar. The polymeric sugar can
include an enzymatic cleavage site that is cleavable by an enzyme in the blood or target
                                                 64

tissue. Such embodiments can be used to release an anti-myostatin Adnectin for better
delivery or therapeutic properties or more efficient production.
A summary of monoAdnectins and their corresponding PK moiety modified forms (e.g.,
PEGylated and Fc fusions) are presented in Table 3.
Table 3
       Mono-       Cysteine mutant Imodification]b         X-linker-Fec    Fc-linker-X
    Adnectin   a
      1979_B06     ATI-1 107 (SEQ ID NO: 229) [40k 2-br]
    (SEQ ID NO:
         80)
      2062 G02     ATI-1 106 (SEQ ID NO: 228) [40k 2-br]
    (SEQ ID NO:
         81)
      2522_C09
    (SEQ ID NO:
         82)
      2523 G06
    (SEQ ID NO:
         83)
      2524_Ci1
    (SEQ ID NO:
         84)
      2524_D09      ATI-1275 (SEQ ID NO: 231) [NEM];
    (SEQ ID NO:    ATI-1276 (SEQ ID NO: 231) [40k 2-br]
         85)
      2524_ElO
    (SEQ ID NO:
         86)
      2524_H05
    (SEQ ID NO:
         87)
      2524_Hil
    (SEQ ID NO:
         88)
      2525_BO
    (SEQ ID NO:
         89)
      2525_D02      ATI-1267 (SEQ ID NO: 230) [NEM];
    (SEQ ID NO:    ATI-1266 (SEQ ID NO: 230) [40k 2-br]
         90)
      2525_D05      ATI-1277 (SEQ ID NO: 232) [NEM];                       PRD-932 [LI]
    (SEQ ID NO:    ATI-1278 (SEQ ID NO: 232) [40k 2-br]                  (SEQ ID NO: 252)
         91)
      2525_F07
    (SEQ ID NO:
         92)
      2987_A06
    (SEQ ID NO:
         93)
      2987_B04
    (SEQ ID NO:
         94)
      2987_B09
                                                65

   Mono-      Cysteine mutant Imodificationb         X-linker-Fc        Fc-linker-Xd
Adnectin   a
(SEQ ID NO:
     95)
  2987_C02
(SEQ ID NO:
     96)
  2987_D05
(SEQ ID NO:
     97)
  2987_E03
(SEQ ID NO:
     98)
  2987_E08
(SEQ ID NO:
     99)
  2987_FO
(SEQ ID NO:
     100)
  2987_F06
(SEQ ID NO:
     101)
  2987_G04
(SEQ ID NO:
     102)
  2987_G09
(SEQ ID NO:
     103)
  2987_H02
(SEQ ID NO:
     104)
  2987 H07     ATI-1310 (SEQ ID NO: 233) [none];      PRD-1 171 [L2]    PRD- 1175[L1]
(SEQ ID NO:    ATI-1340 (SEQ ID NO: 233) [NEM];        (SEQ ID NO:    (SEQ ID NO: 256);
     105)     ATI-1338 (SEQ ID NO: 233) [40k 2-br];     253); PRD-      PRD-1177[L5]
             ATI-1359 (SEQ ID NO: 233) [no His, 40k 1173 [L3] (SEQ ID (SEQ ID NO: 257);
                             2-br]:                  NO: 254); PRD-     PRD-1178[L6]
              ATI-1339 (SEQ ID NO: 233) [40k 4-br]; 1174[L4] (SEQ ID  (SEQ ID NO: 258);
               ATI-1341 (SEQ ID NO: 233) [20k bis-       NO: 255)       PRD-1180[L7]
                             PEG]                                     (SEQ ID NO: 259);
                                                                        PRD-1471[L8]
                                                                      (SEQ ID NO: 270)
  3006_A10
(SEQ ID NO:
     106)
  3007_B08
(SEQ ID NO:
     107)
  3007_C09
(SEQ ID NO:
     108)
  3007_ClO
(SEQ ID NO:
     109)
  3008_A03
(SEQ ID NO:
     110)
  3008_B08
(SEQ ID NO:
     111)
                                           66

       Mono-        Cysteine mutant Imodificationji            X-linker-Fec      Fc-linker-Xd
    Adnectin   a
      3008_D04
    (SEQ ID NO:
         112)
      3008_FO1
    (SEQ ID NO:
         113)
      3008_GOl
    (SEQ ID NO:
         114)
      3008_G03
    (SEQ ID NO:
         115)
      3115_D04      ATI-1375 (SEQ ID NO: 235) [40k 2-br]       PRD-1301[L2]      PRD-1284[L5]
    (SEQ ID NO:                                              (SEQ ID NO: 265)  (SEQ ID NO: 260)
         116)
      3115_E06      ATI-1376 (SEQ ID NO: 236) [40k 2-br]       PRD-1302[L2]      PRD-1285[L5]
    (SEQ ID NO:                                              (SEQ ID NO: 266)  (SEQ ID NO: 261);
         117)                                                                    PRD-1472[L8]
                                                                               (SEQ ID NO: 271)
      3116_A06      ATI-1379 (SEQ ID NO: 239) [40k 2-br];      PRD-1305[L2]      PRD-1288[L5]
    (SEQ ID NO:      ATI-1523 (SEQ ID NO: 239) [NEM]         (SEQ ID NO: 269)  (SEQ ID NO: 264);
         118)                                                                    PRD-1474[L8]
                                                                               (SEQ ID NO: 273)
      3116_A07      ATI-1377 (SEQ ID NO: 237) [40k  2-br]      PRD-1303[L2]      PRD-1286[L5]
    (SEQ ID NO:                                              (SEQ ID NO: 267)  (SEQ ID NO: 262);
         119)                                                                    PRD-1473[L8]
                                                                               (SEQ ID NO: 272)
      3116_COl
    (SEQ ID NO:
         120)
      3116_C06
    (SEQ ID NO:
         121)
      3116_H06
    (SEQ ID NO:
         122)
      3146_A08      ATI-1378 (SEQ ID NO: 238) [40k 2-br]       PRD-1304[L2]      PRD-1287[L5]
    (SEQ ID NO:                                              (SEQ ID NO: 268)  (SEQ ID NO: 263)
         123)
a Unmodified   monoAdnectins have a core Adnectin sequence preceded by a N-terminal extension
sequence (MGVSDVPRDL; SEQ ID NO: 306) and followed by a C-terminal tail
(EIDKPSQHHHHHH; SEQ ID NO: 325), as shown in Table 2. The core Adnectin sequence
corresponds to the monoAdnectin sequence lacking the N-terminal extension and C-terminal tail
sequences.
bAdnectins with cysteine mutants have the core Adnectin sequence of the monoAdnectin in the first
column, and are preceded by a N-terminal extension sequence (MGVSDVPRDL; SEQ ID NO: 306)
and followed by a C-terminal tail (GSGC[Modification]HHHHHH; SEQ ID NO: 326 or
EGSGC[Modification]HHHHHH; SEQ ID NO: 327), as shown in Table 5.
cAdnectins with an Fe moiety on the C-terminus have the core Adnectin sequence of the
monoAdnectin in the first column, which is preceded by a N-terminal extension sequence
(GVSDVPRDL; SEQ ID NO: 307) and followed by a C-terminal tail (El), which is followed by a
linker sequence (Table 4) and the Fc region sequence, as described in Table 6.
dAdnectins with an Fc moiety on the N-terminus have an Fc region sequence which is preceded by a
N-terminal hinge sequence and followed by a linker (Table 4) and the core Adnectin sequence of the
                                                 67

monoAdnectin in the first column, which itself is preceded by a N-terminal extension sequence
(GVSDVPRDL; SEQ ID NO: 307) and followed by a C-terminal tail (EI), as shown in Table 6.
The SEQ ID NOs of exemplary linkers of the invention are presented in Table 4.
Table 4
         IDN         LINKER                               SEQUENCE
          181           LI         GAGGGGSG
          182           L2         EPKSSD
          ---           L3         D
          183           L4         ESPKAQASSVPTAQPQAEGLA
          184           L5         ELQLEESAAEAQDGELD
          185           L6         GQPDEPGGS
          186           L7         GGSGSGSGSGSGS
          187           L8         ELQLEESAAEAQEGELE
                              ADDITIONAL EXEMPLARY LINKERS
          188           L9         GSGSG
          189          L1O         GSGC
          190          LII         AGGGGSG
          191          L12         GSGS
          192          L13         QPDEPGGS
          193          L14         GSGSGS
          194          L15         TVAAPS
          195          L16         KAGGGGSG
          196          L17         KGSGSGSGSGSGS
          197          L18         KQPDEPGGS
          198          L19         KELQLEESAAEAQDGELD
          199          L20         KTVAAPS
         200           L21         KAGGGGSGG
         201           L22         KGSGSGSGSGSGSG
         202           L23         KQPDEPGGSG
         203           L24         KELQLEESAAEAQDGELDG
         204           L25         KTVAAPSG
         205           L26         AGGGGSGG
         206           L27         AGGGGSG
         207           L28         GSGSGSGSGSGSG
         208           L29         QPDEPGGSG
         209           L30         TVAAPSG
         210           L31         PSTSTST
         211           L32         EIDKPSQ
         212           L33         GSGSGSGS
         213           L34         GSGSGSGSGS
         214           L35         GSGSGSGSGSGS
         215           L36         GSGSGSGSGSGSGS
         216           L37         GGSGSGSGSGSGS
         217           L38         GGSGSGSGSGSGSGSG
         218           L39         GSEGSEGSEGSEGSE
         219           L40         GGSEGGSE
         220           L41         GGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGS
         221           L42         GGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGS
         222           L43         GGGGSGGGGSGGGGSG
         223           L44         GPGPGPG
         224           L45         GPGPGPGPGPG
          ---          L46         GPG
                                                  68

           ID NO.    LINKER                            SEQUENCE
             225       L47       PAPAPA
             226       L48       PAPAPAPAPAPA
             227       L49       PAPAPAPAPAPAPAPAPA
The SEQ ID NOs of exemplary PEGylated anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention are
presented in Table 5.
Table 5
                                PEGylated Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                                        Sequence
Clone                      Amino Acid Sequence                     Nucleic Acid Sequence
ATI-1 106 [40K 2-   MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS             ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
branch PEG]         WVSPRGRARYYRITYGETGGNS              GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
                    PVQEFTVPGRGSTATISGLKPGV             TGCTGATCAGCTGGGTTTCTCCGCGTGGT
                    DYTITVYAVTIYRDGMSHHDPISI CGTGCTCGATATTACCGCATCACTTACGG
                    NYRTGSGC [Modification]HHHHH        CGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCAG
                    H (SEQ ID NO: 228)                  GAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTTCTAC
                                                        AGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCG
                                                        TTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGTCA
                                                        CTATCTACCGTGACGGTATGTCTCATCAT
                                                        GACCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACAGG
                                                        TAGCGGTTGCCACCATCACCACCATCAC
                                                        (SEQ ID NO: 240)
ATI-1 107 [40K 2-   MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS             ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
branch PEG]         WSLPHAGHVNYYRITYGETGGN              GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
                    SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG             TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGCATGCT
                    VDYTITVYAVTLTKSQMIHYMPI             GGTCATGTGAACTATTACCGCATCACTTA
                    SINYRTGSGC[Modification] HHHH       CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
                    HH (SEQ ID NO: 229)                 CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
                                                        TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
                                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                        GTCACTCTGACTAAATCTCAGATGATCCA
                                                        TTACATGCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCAC
                                                        AGGTAGCGGTTGCCACCATCACCACCATC
                                                        AC (SEQ ID NO: 241)
ATI- 1266 [40K 2-   MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS             ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
branch PEG]         WTLPHAGRAHYYRITYGETGGN              GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
ATI-1267 [N-        SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG             TGCTGATCAGCTGGACTTTGCCGCATGCT
ethylmaleimide]     VDYTITVYAVTVTTTSVILYKPIS            GGTCGTGCGCACTATTACCGCATCACTTA
                    INYRTEGSGC[Modification]HHHH        CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
                    HH (SEQ ID NO: 230)                 CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGGCGGGGTGT
                                                        TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
                                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                        GTCACTGTGACGACAACTTCGGTGATCCT
                                                        T TACAAGCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                        CAGAAGGTAGCGGTTGCCACCATCACCAC
                                                        CATCAC (SEQ ID NO: 242)
                                               69

                                PEGylated Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                                        Sequence
Clone                      Amino Acid Sequence                     Nucleic Acid Sequence
ATI-1275 [N-         MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS            ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
ethylmaleimide]      WYLPYPAHMNYYRITYGETGGN             GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
ATI- 1276 [40K 2-    SPVQEFTVPGRGLTATISGLKPG            TGCTGATCAGCTGGTACCTCCCGTATCCT
branch PEG]          VDYTITVYAVTLTKSQILHHRPIS           GCGCATATGAACTATTACCGCATCACT TA
                     INYRTEGSGC [Modification]HHHH      CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
                     HH (SEQ ID NO: 231)                CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGGCGGGGTCT
                                                        GACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCT'TAAACCTG
                                                        GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                        GTCACTCTGACAAAATCTCAGATTCTCCA
                                                        TCATAGGCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                        CAGAAGGTAGCGGTTGCCACCATCACCAC
                                                        CATCAC (SEQ ID NO: 243)
ATI-1277 [N-         MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS            ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
ethylmaleimide]      WSLPYAGHLNYYRITYGETGGN             GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
ATI-1278 [40K 2-     SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG            TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTTCCT TATGCTG
branch PEG]          VDYTITVYAVTLTKSQLIHYMPI            GTCATCTAAACTATTACCGCATCACTTAC
                     SINYRTEGSGC[Modification]HHH       GGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCC
                     HHH (SEQ ID NO: 232)               AGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGTG
                                                        ACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGG
                                                        CGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGT
                                                        CACTCTGACTAAGTCTCAGCTGATACATT
                                                        ACATGCCAAT TTCCATTAATTACCGCACA
                                                        GAAGGTAGCGGTTGCCACCATCACCACCA
                                                        TCAC (SEQ ID NO: 244)
ATI- 1310 [free Cys] MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS            ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
ATI-1338 [40K 2-     WTLPHAGRAHYYRITYGETGGN             GGAAGT TGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
branch PEG]          SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG            TGCTGATTAGCTGGACCCTGCCGCATGCA
ATI- 1339 [40K 4-    VDYTITVYAVTVTTTKVIHYKPI            GGTCGTGCACATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
branch PEG]          SINYRTEGSGC[Modification]HHH       GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
ATI-1340 [N-         HHH (SEQ ID NO: 233)               GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
ethylmaleimide]                                         CCGCAACCATTAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
ATI-1341 [2 0K Bis-                                     GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
PEG]                                                    ACCGTTACCACCACCAAAGTGATTCATTA
                                                        TAAACCGATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACAG
                                                        AAGGTAGCGGTTGCCACCATCACCACCAT
                                                        CAC (SEQ ID NO: 245)
ATI-1359 [40K 2-     MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS            ATGGGTGTTAGTGATGTTCCGCGTGATCT
branch PEG]          WTLPHAGRAHYYRITYGETGGN             GGAAGTTGTTGCAGCAACCCCGACCAGCC
                     SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG            TGCTGATTAGCTGGACCCTGCCGCATGCA
                     VDYTITVYAVTVTTTKVIHYKPI            GGTCGTGCACATTATTATCGTATTACCTAT
                     SINYRTEGSGC [Modification]HHH      GGTGAAACCGGTGGTAATAGTCCGGTTCA
                     HHH (SEQ ID NO: 234)               GGAATTCACCGTTCCGGGTCGTGGTGTTA
                                                        CCGCAACCATTAGCGGTCTGAAACCGGGT
                                                        GTTGATTACACCATTACCGTTTATGCAGTT
                                                        ACCGTTACCACCACCAAAGTGATTCATTA
                                                        TAAACCGATTTCCAT TAATTACCGAACAG
                                                        AAGGTAGCGGTTGC (SEQ ID NO: 246)
                                               70

                             PEGylated Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                                     Sequence
Clone                   Amino Acid Sequence                     Nucleic Acid Sequence
ATI-1375 [40K 2-  MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS            ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
branch PEG]       WDAPRGLARYYRITYGETGGNS             GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
                  PVQEFTVFGRGTTATISGLKPGV            TGCTGATCAGCTGGGACGCTCCGAGAGGT
                  DYTITVYAVTIDRDGTRSFDPISI           CTGGCTCGATATTACCGCATCACTTACGG
                  NYRTEGSGC[Modification]HHHH        CGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCAG
                  HH (SEQ ID NO: 235)                GAGTTCACTGTGTTCGGTCGTGGTACCAC
                                                     AGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCG
                                                     TTGAT TATACCATCACTGTGTATGC TGTCA
                                                     CTATCGACCGTGACGGTACCCGCAGCTTC
                                                     GACCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACAGA
                                                     AGGTAGCGGTTGCCACCATCACCACCATC
                                                     AC (SEQ ID NO: 247)
ATI- 1376 [40K 2- MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS            ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
branch PEG]       WDAPAGLARYYRITYGETGGNS             GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
                  PVQEFTVVGRGNTATISGLKPGV            TGCTGATCAGCTGGGACGCTCCGGCTGGT
                  DYTITVYAVTIFRDGPVTWDPISI           CTGGCTCGATATTACCGCATCACTTACGG
                  NYRTEGSGC[Modification]HHHH        CGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCAG
                  HH (SEQ ID NO: 236)                GAGTTCACTGTGGTCGGTCGTGGTAACAC
                                                     AGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCG
                                                     TTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGTCA
                                                     CTATCTTCCGTGACGGTCCCGTCACCTGG
                                                     GACCCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCACAGA
                                                     AGGTAGCGGTTGCCACCATCACCACCATC
                                                     AC (SEQ ID NO: 248)
ATI- 1377 [40K 2- MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS            ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
branch PEG]       WDAPKGLARYYRITYGETGGNS             GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
                  PVQEFTVVGRGNTATISGLKPGV            TGCTGATCAGCTGGGACGCTCCGAAGGGT
                  DYTITVYAVTIFRDGPVTWDPISI           CTGGCTCGATATTACCGCATCACTTACGG
                  NYRTEGSGC[Modification]HHHH        CGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCAG
                  HH (SEQ ID NO: 237)                GAGTTCACTGTGGTCGGTCGTGGTAACAC
                                                     AGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCG
                                                     TTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCTGTCA
                                                     CTATCTTCCGTGACGGTCCCGTCACCTGG
                                                     GACCCAATTTCCATTAAT'TACCGCACAGA
                                                     AGGTAGCGGTTGCCACCATCACCACCATC
                                                     AC (SEQ ID NO: 249)
ATI- 1378 [40K 2- MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS            ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
branch PEG]       WSLPNPGNAHYYRITYGETGGN             GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
                  SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG            TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGAATCCG
                  VDYTITVYAVTVTDTGFITYKPIS           GGTAACGCCCATTATTACCGCATCACTTA
                  INYRTEGSGC[Modification]HHHH       CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
                  HH (SEQ ID NO: 238)                CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
                                                     TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
                                                     GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                     GTCACTGTTACTGACACAGGTTTCATCAC
                                                     GTACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                     CAGAAGGTAGCGGTTGCCACCATCACCAC
                                                     CATCAC (SEQ ID NO: 250)
                                            71

                                    PEGylated Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                                            Sequence
 Clone                        Amino Acid Sequence                       Nucleic Acid Sequence
 ATI-1379 [40K 2-       MGVSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLIS             ATGGGAGTTTCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
 branch PEG]            WSLPHQGKANYYRITYGETGGN              GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCCCCACCAGCC
 ATI-1523 [N-           SPVQEFTVPGRGVTATISGLKPG             TGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGCACCAA
 ethylmaleimide]        VDYTITVYAVTVTDTGYLKYKPI             GGTAAAGCCAATTATTACCGCATCACTTA
                        SINYRTEGSGC[Modification]HHH        CGGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTC
                        HHH (SEQ ID NO: 239)                CAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTGGTGT
                                                            TACAGCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTG
                                                            GCGTTGATTATACCATCACTGTGTATGCT
                                                            GTCACTGTTACTGATACAGGGTACCTCAA
                                                            GTACAAACCAATTTCCATTAATTACCGCA
                                                            CAGAAGGTAGCGGTTGCCACCATCACCAC
                                                            CATCAC (SEQ ID NO: 251)
 The SEQ ID NOs of exemplary Fc-fused anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention are
 presented in Table 6.
 Table 6
                                    Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                                      Sequence
Clone        Amino Acid       N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal        Nucleic Acid Sequence
               Sequence         domain                           domain
PRD-932     EPKSSGSTHTC     EPKSSGSTHTCP     GAGGGGSG       GVSDVPRDLEVVA       GAGCCCAAATCTAGCGGGTC
            PPCPAPELLGG     PCPAPELLGGSS      (SEQ ID       ATPTSLLISWSLP       GACTCACACATGCCCACCGT
            SSVFLFPPKPK     VFLFPPKPKDTL     NO: 181)       YAGHLNYYRITYG       GCCCAGCACCTGAACTCCTG
            DTLMISRTPEV     MISRTPEVTCVV                    ETGGNSPVQEFTV       GGGGGAAGCTCAGTCTTCCT
            TCVVVDVSHED     VDVSHEDPEVKF                    PGRGVTATISGLK       CTTCCCCCCAAAACCCAAGG
            PEVKFNWYVDG     NWYVDGVEVHNA                    PGVDYTITVYAVT       ACACCCTCATGATCTCCCGG
            VEVHNAKTKPR     KTKPREEQYNST                    LTKSQLIHYMPIS       ACCCCTGAGGTCACATGCGT
            EEQYNSTYRVV     YRVVSVLTVLHQ                    INYRTEI    (SEQ     GGTGGTGGACGTGAGCCACG
            SVLTVLHQDWL     DWLNGKEYKCKV                    ID NO: 282)         AAGACCCTGAGGTCAAGTTC
            NGKEYKCKVSN     SNKALPAPIEKT                                        AACTGGTACGTGGACGGCGT
            KALPAPIEKTI     ISKAKGQPREPQ                                        GGAGGTGCATAATGCCAAGA
            SKAKGQPREPQ     VYTLPPSRDELT                                        CAAAGCCGCGGGAGGAGCAG
            VYTLPPSRDEL     KNQVSLTCLVKG                                        TACAACAGCACGTACCGTGT
            TKNQVSLTCLV     FYPSDIAVEWES                                        GGTCAGCGTCCTCACCGTCC
            KGFYPSDIAVE     NGQPENNYKTTP                                        TGCACCAGGACTGGCTGAAT
            WESNGQPENNY     PVLDSDGSFFLY                                        GGCAAGGAGTACAAGTGCAA
            KTTPPVLDSDG     SKLTVDKSRWQQ                                        GGTCTCCAACAAAGCCCTCC
            SFFLYSKLTVD     GNVFSCSVMHEA                                        CAGCCCCCATCGAGAAAACC
            KSRWQQGNVFS     LHNHYTQKSLSL                                        ATCTCCAAAGCCAAAGGGCA
            CSVMHEALHNH     SP (SEQ ID                                          GCCCCGAGAACCACAGGTGT
            YTQKSLSLSPG     NO: 274)                                            ACACCCTGCCCCCATCCCGG
            AGGGGSGGVSD                                                         GATGAGCTGACCAAGAACCA
            VPRDLEVVAAT                                                         GGTCAGCCTGACCTGCCTGG
            PTSLLISWSLP                                                         TCAAAGGCTTCTATCCCAGC
            YAGHLNYYRIT                                                         GACATCGCCGTGGAGTGGGA
            YGETGGNSPVQ                                                         GAGCAATGGGCAGCCGGAGA
            EFTVPGRGVTA                                                         ACAACTACAAGACCACGCCT
            TISGLKPGVDY                                                         CCCGTGCTGGACTCCGACGG
            TITVYAVTLTK                                                         CTCCTTCTTCCTCTACAGCA
            SQLIHYMPISI                                                         AGCTCACCGTGGACAAGAGC
            NYRTEI                                                              AGGTGGCAGCAGGGGAACGT
            (SEQ ID NO:                                                         CTTCTCATGCTCCGTGATGC
            252)                                                                ATGAGGCTCTGCACAACCAC
                                                                                TACACGCAGAAGAGCCTCTC
                                                                                CCTGTCTCCCGGCGCCGGAG
                                                                                GCGGCGGATCCGGTGGAGTT
                                                                                TCTGATGTGCCGCGCGACCT
                                                                                GGAAGTGGTTGCTGCCACCC
                                                   72

                            Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                               Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid     N-terminal         Linker         C-terminal   Nucleic Acid Sequence
         Sequence      domain                            domain
                                                                   CCACCAGCCTGCTGATCAGC
                                                                   TGGTCTCTTCCTTATGCTGG
                                                                   TCATCTAAACTATTACCGCA
                                                                   TCACTTACGGCGAAACAGGA
                                                                   GGCAATAGCCCTGTCCAGGA
                                                                   GTTCACTGTGCCTGGTCGTG
                                                                   GTGTGACAGCTACCATCAGC
                                                                   GGCCTTAAACCTGGCGTTGA
                                                                   TTATACCATCACTGTGTATG
                                                                   CTGTCACTCTGACTAAGTCT
                                                                   CAGCTGATACATTACATGCC
                                                                   AATTTCCATTAATTACCGGA
                                                                   CCGAAATC     (SEQ ID
                                                                   NO: 284)
PRD-  GVSDVPRDLEV  GVSDVPRDLEVV      EPKSSD          KTHTCPPCPAPEL GGCGTGAGCGACGTGCCCCG
1171  VAATPTSLLIS  AATPTSLLISWT       (SEQ ID        LGGPSVFLFPPKP GGATCTAGAAGTGGTGGCTG
      WTLPHAGRAHY  LPHAGRAHYYRI      NO: 182)        KDTLMISRTPEVT CTACCCCCACAAGCTTGCTG
      YRITYGETGGN  TYGETGGNSPVQ                      CVVVDVSHEDPEV ATCTCCTGGACACTGCCTCA
      SPVQEFTVPGR  EFTVPGRGVTAT                      KFNWYVDGVEVHN CGCTGGCCGGGCTCATTACT
      GVTATISGLKP  ISGLKPGVDYTI                      AKTKPREEQYNST ATAGAATTACCTACGGGGAG
      GVDYTITVYAV  TVYAVTVTTTKV                      YRVVSVLTVLHQD ACAGGCGGGAACTCTCCCGT
      TVTTTKVIHYK  IHYKPISINYRT                      WLNGKEYKCKVSN GCAGGAATTCACCGTGCCTG
      PISINYRTEIE  El    (SEQ ID                     KALPAPIEKTISK GAAGGGGCGTGACTGCCACC
      PKSSDKTHTCP  NO: 275)                          AKGQPREPQVYTL ATCAGTGGGCTGAAGCCAGG
      PCPAPELLGGP                                    PPSRDELTKNQVS AGTGGACTACACAATTACCG
      SVFLFPPKPKD                                    LTCLVKGFYPSDI TGTACGCTGTGACTGTGACC
      TLMISRTPEVT                                    AVEWESNGQPENN ACAACTAAAGTGATCCACTA
      CVVVDVSHEDP                                    YKTTPPVLDSDGS CAAACCCATCTCTATTAATT
      EVKFNWYVDGV                                    FFLYSKLTVDKSR ATCGGACCGAAATTGAGCCT
      EVHNAKTKPRE                                    WQQGNVFSCSVMH AAGAGCTCCGACAAAACCCA
      EQYNSTYRVVS                                    EALHNHYTQKSLS CACATGCCCACCTTGTCCAG
      VLTVLHQDWLN                                    LSPGK    (SEQ CCCCCGAACTGCTGGGCGGC
      GKEYKCKVSNK                                    ID NO: 283)   CCTTCAGTCTTCCTCTTCCC
      ALPAPIEKTIS                                                  CCCAAAACCCAAGGACACCC
      KAKGQPREPQV                                                  TCATGATCTCCCGGACCCCT
      YTLPPSRDELT                                                  GAGGTCACATGCGTGGTGGT
      KNQVSLTCLVK                                                  GGACGTGAGCCACGAAGACC
      GFYPSDIAVEW                                                  CTGAGGTCAAGTTCAACTGG
      ESNGQPENNYK                                                  TACGTGGACGGCGTGGAGGT
      TTPPVLDSDGS                                                  GCATAATGCCAAGACAAAGC
      FFLYSKLTVDK                                                  CGCGGGAGGAGCAGTACAAC
      SRWQQGNVFSC                                                  AGCACGTACCGTGTGGTCAG
      SVMHEALHNHY                                                  CGTCCTCACCGTCCTGCACC
      TQKSLSLSPGK                                                  AGGACTGGCTGAATGGCAAG
      (SEQ  ID NO:                                                 GAGTACAAGTGCAAGGTCTC
      253)                                                         CAACAAAGCCCTCCCAGCCC
                                                                   CCATCGAGAAAACCATCTCC
                                                                   AAAGCCAAAGGGCAGCCCCG
                                                                   AGAACCACAGGTGTACACCC
                                                                   TGCCCCCATCCCGGGATGAG
                                                                   CTGACCAAGAACCAGGTCAG
                                                                   CCTGACCTGCCTGGTCAAAG
                                                                   GCTTCTATCCCAGCGACATC
                                                                   GCCGTGGAGTGGGAGAGCAA
                                                                   TGGGCAGCCGGAGAACAACT
                                                                   ACAAGACCACGCCTCCCGTG
                                                                   TTGGACTCCGACGGCTCCTT
                                                                   CTTCCTCTACAGCAAGCTCA
                                                                   CCGTGGACAAGAGCAGGTGG
                                                                   CAGCAGGGGAACGTCTTCTC
                                                                   ATGCTCCGTGATGCATGAGG
                                                                   CTCTGCACAACCACTACACG
                                            73

                           Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                             Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid    N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal    Nucleic Acid Sequence
        Sequence      domain                            domain
                                                                  CAGAAGAGCCTCTCCCTGTC
                                                                  TCCCGGGAAA      (SEQ ID
                                                                  NO: 285)
PRD-  GVSDVPRDLEV GVSDVPRDLEVV      D              KTHTCPPCPAPEL  GGCGTGAGCGACGTGCCCCG
1173  VAATPTSLLIS AATPTSLLISWT                     LGGPSVFLFPPKP  GGATCTAGAAGTGGTGGCTG
      WTLPHAGRAHY LPHAGRAHYYRI                     KDTLMISRTPEVT  CTACCCCCACAAGCTTGCTG
      YRITYGETGGN TYGETGGNSPVQ                     CVVVDVSHEDPEV  ATCTCCTGGACACTGCCTCA
      SPVQEFTVPGR EFTVPGRGVTAT                     KFNWYVDGVEVHN  CGCTGGCCGGGCTCATTACT
      GVTATISGLKP ISGLKPGVDYTI                     AKTKPREEQYNST  ATAGAATTACCTACGGGGAG
      GVDYTITVYAV TVYAVTVTTTKV                     YRVVSVLTVLHQD  ACAGGCGGGAACTCTCCCGT
      TVTTTKVIHYK IHYKPISINYRT                     WLNGKEYKCKVSN  GCAGGAATTCACCGTGCCTG
      PISINYRTEID El    (SEQ ID                    KALPAPIEKTISK  GAAGGGGCGTGACTGCCACC
      KTHTCPPCPAP NO: 275)                         AKGQPREPQVYTL  ATCAGTGGGCTGAAGCCAGG
      ELLGGPSVFLF                                  PPSRDELTKNQVS  AGTGGACTACACAATTACCG
      PPKPKDTLMIS                                  LTCLVKGFYPSDI  TGTACGCTGTGACTGTGACC
      RTPEVTCVVVD                                  AVEWESNGQPENN  ACAACTAAAGTGATCCACTA
      VSHEDPEVKFN                                  YKTTPPVLDSDGS  CAAACCCATCTCTATTAATT
      WYVDGVEVHNA                                  FFLYSKLTVDKSR  ATCGGACCGAAATTGACAAG
      KTKPREEQYNS                                  WQQGNVFSCSVMH  ACCCACACATGCCCACCTTG
      TYRVVSVLTVL                                  EALHNHYTQKSLS  TCCAGCCCCCGAGCTGCTGG
      HQDWLNGKEYK                                  LSPGK     (SEQ GCGGCCCTTCAGTCTTCCTC
      CKVSNKALPAP                                  ID NO: 283)    TTCCCCCCAAAACCCAAGGA
      IEKTISKAKGQ                                                 CACCCTCATGATCTCCCGGA
      PREPQVYTLPP                                                 CCCCTGAGGTCACATGCGTG
      SRDELTKNQVS                                                 GTGGTGGACGTGAGCCACGA
      LTCLVKGFYPS                                                 AGACCCTGAGGTCAAGTTCA
      DIAVEWESNGQ                                                 ACTGGTACGTGGACGGCGTG
      PENNYKTTPPV                                                 GAGGTGCATAATGCCAAGAC
      LDSDGSFFLYS                                                 AAAGCCGCGGGAGGAGCAGT
      KLTVDKSRWQQ                                                 ACAACAGCACGTACCGTGTG
      GNVFSCSVMHE                                                 GTCAGCGTCCTCACCGTCCT
      ALHNHYTQKSL                                                 GCACCAGGACTGGCTGAATG
      SLSPGK                                                      GCAAGGAGTACAAGTGCAAG
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                 GTCTCCAACAAAGCCCTCCC
      254)                                                        AGCCCCCATCGAGAAAACCA
                                                                  TCTCCAAAGCCAAAGGGCAG
                                                                  CCCCGAGAACCACAGGTGTA
                                                                  CACCCTGCCCCCATCCCGGG
                                                                  ATGAGCTGACCAAGAACCAG
                                                                  GTCAGCCTGACCTGCCTGGT
                                                                  CAAAGGCTTCTATCCCAGCG
                                                                  ACATCGCCGTGGAGTGGGAG
                                                                  AGCAATGGGCAGCCGGAGAA
                                                                  CAACTACAAGACCACGCCTC
                                                                  CCGTGTTGGACTCCGACGGC
                                                                  TCCTTCTTCCTCTACAGCAA
                                                                  GCTCACCGTGGACAAGAGCA
                                                                  GGTGGCAGCAGGGGAACGTC
                                                                  TTCTCATGCTCCGTGATGCA
                                                                  TGAGGCTCTGCACAACCACT
                                                                  ACACGCAGAAGAGCCTCTCC
                                                                  CTGTCTCCCGGGAAA
                                                                  (SEQ ID NO: 286)
                                          74

                           Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                             Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid    N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal     Nucleic Acid Sequence
        Sequence      domain                            domain
PRD-  GVSDVPRDLEV GVSDVPRDLEVV      ESPKAQASS      KTHTCPPCPAPEL    GGCGTGAGCGACGTGCCCCG
1174  VAATPTSLLIS AATPTSLLISWT      VPTAQPQAE      LGGPSVFLFPPKP    GGATCTAGAAGTGGTGGCTG
      WTLPHAGRAHY LPHAGRAHYYRI      GLA    (SEQ    KDTLMISRTPEVT    CTACCCCCACAAGCTTGCTG
      YRITYGETGGN TYGETGGNSPVQ      ID NO:         CVVVDVSHEDPEV    ATCTCCTGGACACTGCCTCA
      SPVQEFTVPGR EFTVPGRGVTAT      183)           KFNWYVDGVEVHN    CGCTGGCCGGGCTCATTACT
      GVTATISGLKP ISGLKPGVDYTI                     AKTKPREEQYNST    ATAGAATTACCTACGGGGAG
      GVDYTITVYAV TVYAVTVTTTKV                     YRVVSVLTVLHQD    ACAGGCGGGAACTCTCCCGT
      TVTTTKVIHYK IHYKPISINYRT                     WLNGKEYKCKVSN    GCAGGAATTCACCGTGCCTG
      PISINYRTEIE El    (SEQ ID                    KALPAPIEKTISK    GAAGGGGCGTGACTGCCACC
      SPKAQASSVPT NO: 275)                         AKGQPREPQVYTL    ATCAGTGGGCTGAAGCCAGG
      AQPQAEGLAKT                                  PPSRDELTKNQVS    AGTGGACTACACAATTACCG
      HTCPPCPAPEL                                  LTCLVKGFYPSDI    TGTACGCTGTGACTGTGACC
      LGGPSVFLFPP                                  AVEWESNGQPENN    ACAACTAAAGTGATCCACTA
      KPKDTLMISRT                                  YKTTPPVLDSDGS    CAAACCCATCTCTATTAATT
      PEVTCVVVDVS                                  FFLYSKLTVDKSR    ATCGGACCGAAATTGAGTCT
      HEDPEVKFNWY                                  WQQGNVFSCSVMH    CCAAAGGCTCAGGCCAGCTC
      VDGVEVHNAKT                                  EALHNHYTQKSLS    CGTGCCTACCGCTCAGCCAC
      KPREEQYNSTY                                  LSPGK     (SEQ   AGGCTGAGGGCCTGGCTAAG
      RVVSVLTVLHQ                                  ID NO: 283)      ACCCACACATGCCCCCCTTG
      DWLNGKEYKCK                                                   TCCAGCTCCCGAACTGCTGG
      VSNKALPAPIE                                                   GCGGGCCTTCAGTCTTCCTC
      KTISKAKGQPR                                                   TTCCCCCCAAAACCCAAGGA
      EPQVYTLPPSR                                                   CACCCTCATGATCTCCCGGA
      DELTKNQVSLT                                                   CCCCTGAGGTCACATGCGTG
      CLVKGFYPSDI                                                   GTGGTGGACGTGAGCCACGA
      AVEWESNGQPE                                                   AGACCCTGAGGTCAAGTTCA
      NNYKTTPPVLD                                                   ACTGGTACGTGGACGGCGTG
      SDGSFFLYSKL                                                   GAGGTGCATAATGCCAAGAC
      TVDKSRWQQGN                                                   AAAGCCGCGGGAGGAGCAGT
      VFSCSVMHEAL                                                   ACAACAGCACGTACCGTGTG
      HNHYTQKSLSL                                                   GTCAGCGTCCTCACCGTCCT
      SPGK   (SEQ                                                   GCACCAGGACTGGCTGAATG
      ID NO: 255)                                                   GCAAGGAGTACAAGTGCAAG
                                                                    GTCTCCAACAAAGCCCTCCC
                                                                    AGCCCCCATCGAGAAAACCA
                                                                    TCTCCAAAGCCAAAGGGCAG
                                                                    CCCCGAGAACCACAGGTGTA
                                                                    CACCCTGCCCCCATCCCGGG
                                                                    ATGAGCTGACCAAGAACCAG
                                                                    GTCAGCCTGACCTGCCTGGT
                                                                    CAAAGGCTTCTATCCCAGCG
                                                                    ACATCGCCGTGGAGTGGGAG
                                                                    AGCAATGGGCAGCCGGAGAA
                                                                    CAACTACAAGACCACGCCTC
                                                                    CCGTGCTGGACTCCGACGGC
                                                                    TCCTTCTTCCTCTACAGCAA
                                                                    GCTCACCGTGGACAAGAGCA
                                                                    GGTGGCAGCAGGGGAACGTC
                                                                    TTCTCATGCTCCGTGATGCA
                                                                    TGAGGCTCTGCACAACCACT
                                                                    ACACGCAGAAGAGCCTCTCC
                                                                    CTGTCTCCCGGGAAA
                                                                    (SEQ ID NO: 287)
PRD-  DKTHTCPPCPA DKTHTCPPCPAP      GAGGGGSG       GVSDVPRDLEVVA    GACAAAACTCACACATGCCC
1175  PELLGGPSVFL ELLGGPSVFLFP       (SEQ ID       ATPTSLLISWTLP    ACCGTGCCCAGCACCTGAAC
      FPPKPKDTLMI PKPKDTLMISRT      NO: 181)       HAGRAHYYRITYG    TCCTGGGGGGACCGTCAGTC
      SRTPEVTCVVV PEVTCVVVDVSH                     ETGGNSPVQEFTV    TTCCTCTTCCCCCCAAAACC
      DVSHEDPEVKF EDPEVKFNWYVD                     PGRGVTATISGLK    CAAGGACACCCTCATGATCT
      NWYVDGVEVHN GVEVHNAKTKPR                     PGVDYTITVYAVT    CCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACA
      AKTKPREEQYN EEQYNSTYRVVS                     VTTTKVIHYKPIS    TGCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGAG
      STYRVVSVLTV VLTVLHQDWLNG                     INYRTEI     (SEQ CCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCA
      LHQDWLNGKEY KEYKCKVSNKAL                     ID NO: 275)      AGTTCAACTGGTACGTGGAC
                                          75

                           Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                             Sequence
Clone   Amino Acid   N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal     Nucleic Acid Sequence
         Sequence       domain                          domain
      KCKVSNKALPA  PAPIEKTISKAK                                    GGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGC
      PIEKTISKAKG  GQPREPQVYTLP                                    CAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGG
      QPREPQVYTLP  PSRDELTKNQVS                                    AGCAGTACAACAGCACGTAC
      PSRDELTKNQV  LTCLVKGFYPSD                                    CGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCAC
      SLTCLVKGFYP  IAVEWESNGQPE                                    CGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGC
      SDIAVEWESNG  NNYKTTPPVLDS                                    TGAATGGCAAGGAGTACAAG
      QPENNYKTTPP  DGSFFLYSKLTV                                    TGCAAGGTCTCCAACAAAGC
      VLDSDGSFFLY  DKSRWQQGNVFS                                    CCTCCCAGCCCCCATCGAGA
      SKLTVDKSRWQ  CSVMHEALHNHY                                    AAACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAA
      QGNVFSCSVMH  TQKSLSLSP                                       GGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACA
      EALHNHYTQKS  (SEQ ID NO:                                     GGTGTACACCCTGCCCCCAT
      LSLSPGAGGGG  276)                                            CCCGGGATGAGCTGACCAAG
      SGGVSDVPRDL                                                  AACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTG
      EVVAATPTSLL                                                  CCTGGTCAAAGGCTTCTATC
      ISWTLPHAGRA                                                  CCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAG
      HYYRITYGETG                                                  TGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCC
      GNSPVQEFTVP                                                  GGAGAACAACTACAAGACCA
      GRGVTATISGL                                                  CGCCTCCCGTGTTGGACTCC
      KPGVDYTITVY                                                  GACGGCTCCTTCTTCCTCTA
      AVTVTTTKVIH                                                  CAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACA
      YKPISINYRTE                                                  AGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGG
      I   (SEQ ID                                                  AACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGT
      NO: 256)                                                     GATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACA
                                                                   ACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGC
                                                                   CTCTCCCTGTCTCCCGGCGC
                                                                   CGGAGGCGGCGGATCCGGTG
                                                                   GCGTGTCCGACGTGCCCCGG
                                                                   GATCTAGAAGTGGTGGCTGC
                                                                   TACCCCCACAAGCTTGCTGA
                                                                   TCTCCTGGACACTGCCTCAC
                                                                   GCTGGCCGGGCTCATTACTA
                                                                   TAGAATTACCTACGGGGAGA
                                                                   CAGGCGGGAACTCTCCCGTG
                                                                   CAGGAATTCACCGTGCCTGG
                                                                   AAGGGGCGTGACTGCCACCA
                                                                   TCAGTGGGCTGAAGCCAGGA
                                                                   GTGGACTACACAATTACCGT
                                                                   GTACGCTGTGACTGTGACCA
                                                                   CAACTAAAGTGATCCACTAC
                                                                   AAACCCATCTCTATTAATTA
                                                                   TCGGACCGAAATC      (SEQ
                                                                   ID NO: 288)
PRD-  DKTHTCPPCPA  DKTHTCPPCPAP     ELQLEESAA      GVSDVPRDLEVVA   GACAAAACTCACACATGCCC
1177  PELLGGPSVFL  ELLGGPSVFLFP     EAQDGELD       ATPTSLLISWTLP   ACCGTGCCCAGCACCTGAAC
      FPPKPKDTLMI  PKPKDTLMISRT      (SEQ ID       HAGRAHYYRITYG   TCCTGGGGGGACCGTCAGTC
      SRTPEVTCVVV  PEVTCVVVDVSH     NO: 184)       ETGGNSPVQEFTV   TTCCTCTTCCCCCCAAAACC
      DVSHEDPEVKF  EDPEVKFNWYVD                    PGRGVTATISGLK   CAAGGACACCCTCATGATCT
      NWYVDGVEVHN  GVEVHNAKTKPR                    PGVDYTITVYAVT   CCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACA
      AKTKPREEQYN  EEQYNSTYRVVS                    VTTTKVIHYKPIS   TGCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGAG
      STYRVVSVLTV  VLTVLHQDWLNG                    INYRTEI    (SEQ CCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCA
      LHQDWLNGKEY  KEYKCKVSNKAL                    ID NO: 275)     AGTTCAACTGGTACGTGGAC
      KCKVSNKALPA  PAPIEKTISKAK                                    GGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGC
      PIEKTISKAKG  GQPREPQVYTLP                                    CAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGG
      QPREPQVYTLP  PSRDELTKNQVS                                    AGCAGTACAACAGCACGTAC
      PSRDELTKNQV  LTCLVKGFYPSD                                    CGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCAC
      SLTCLVKGFYP  IAVEWESNGQPE                                    CGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGC
      SDIAVEWESNG  NNYKTTPPVLDS                                    TGAATGGCAAGGAGTACAAG
      QPENNYKTTPP  DGSFFLYSKLTV                                    TGCAAGGTCTCCAACAAAGC
      VLDSDGSFFLY  DKSRWQQGNVFS                                    CCTCCCAGCCCCCATCGAGA
      SKLTVDKSRWQ  CSVMHEALHNHY                                    AAACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAA
      QGNVFSCSVMH  TQKSLSLSP                                       GGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACA
      EALHNHYTQKS  (SEQ ID NO:                                     GGTGTACACCCTGCCCCCAT
                                          76

                            Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                              Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid     N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal    Nucleic Acid Sequence
         Sequence        domain                          domain
      LSLSPELQLEE   276)                                            CCCGGGATGAGCTGACCAAG
      SAAEAQDGELD                                                   AACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTG
      GVSDVPRDLEV                                                   CCTGGTCAAAGGCTTCTATC
      VAATPTSLLIS                                                   CCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAG
      WTLPHAGRAHY                                                   TGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCC
      YRITYGETGGN                                                   GGAGAACAACTACAAGACCA
      SPVQEFTVPGR                                                   CGCCTCCCGTGCTGGACTCC
      GVTATISGLKP                                                   GACGGCTCCTTCTTCCTCTA
      GVDYTITVYAV                                                   CAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACA
      TVTTTKVIHYK                                                   AGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGG
      PISINYRTEI                                                    AACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGT
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                   GATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACA
      257)                                                          ACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGC
                                                                    CTCTCCCTGTCTCCCGAGCT
                                                                    GCAGCTGGAGGAAAGCGCCG
                                                                    CTGAGGCTCAGGACGGAGAA
                                                                    CTGGATGGCGTGAGCGACGT
                                                                    GCCACGGGATCTAGAAGTGG
                                                                    TGGCTGCTACCCCCACAAGC
                                                                    TTGCTGATCTCCTGGACACT
                                                                    GCCTCACGCTGGCCGGGCTC
                                                                    ATTACTATAGAATTACCTAC
                                                                    GGGGAGACAGGCGGGAACTC
                                                                    TCCCGTGCAGGAATTCACCG
                                                                    TGCCTGGAAGGGGCGTGACT
                                                                    GCCACCATCAGTGGGCTGAA
                                                                    GCCAGGAGTGGACTACACAA
                                                                    TTACCGTGTACGCTGTGACT
                                                                    GTGACCACAACTAAAGTGAT
                                                                    CCACTACAAACCCATCTCTA
                                                                    TTAATTATCGGACCGAAATT
                                                                    (SEQ ID NO:   289)
PRD-  DKTHTCPPCPA   DKTHTCPPCPAP     GQPDEPGGS      GVSDVPRDLEVVA   GACAAAACTCACACATGCCC
1178  PELLGGPSVFL   ELLGGPSVFLFP      (SEQ ID       ATPTSLLISWTLP   ACCGTGCCCAGCACCTGAAC
      FPPKPKDTLMI   PKPKDTLMISRT     NO: 185)       HAGRAHYYRITYG   TCCTGGGGGGACCGTCAGTC
      SRTPEVTCVVV   PEVTCVVVDVSH                    ETGGNSPVQEFTV   TTCCTCTTCCCCCCAAAACC
      DVSHEDPEVKF   EDPEVKFNWYVD                    PGRGVTATISGLK   CAAGGACACCCTCATGATCT
      NWYVDGVEVHN   GVEVHNAKTKPR                    PGVDYTITVYAVT   CCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACA
      AKTKPREEQYN   EEQYNSTYRVVS                    VTTTKVIHYKPIS   TGCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGAG
      STYRVVSVLTV   VLTVLHQDWLNG                    INYRTEI    (SEQ CCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCA
      LHQDWLNGKEY   KEYKCKVSNKAL                    ID NO: 275)     AGTTCAACTGGTACGTGGAC
      KCKVSNKALPA   PAPIEKTISKAK                                    GGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGC
      PIEKTISKAKG   GQPREPQVYTLP                                    CAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGG
      QPREPQVYTLP   PSRDELTKNQVS                                    AGCAGTACAACAGCACGTAC
      PSRDELTKNQV   LTCLVKGFYPSD                                    CGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCAC
      SLTCLVKGFYP   IAVEWESNGQPE                                    CGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGC
      SDIAVEWESNG   NNYKTTPPVLDS                                    TGAATGGCAAGGAGTACAAG
      QPENNYKTTPP   DGSFFLYSKLTV                                    TGCAAGGTCTCCAACAAAGC
      VLDSDGSFFLY   DKSRWQQGNVFS                                    CCTCCCAGCCCCCATCGAGA
      SKLTVDKSRWQ   CSVMHEALHNHY                                    AAACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAA
      QGNVFSCSVMH   TQKSLSLSP                                       GGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACA
      EALHNHYTQKS   (SEQ ID NO:                                     GGTGTACACCCTGCCCCCAT
      LSLSPGQPDEP   276)                                            CCCGGGATGAGCTGACCAAG
      GGSGVSDVPRD                                                   AACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTG
      LEVVAATPTSL                                                   CCTGGTCAAAGGCTTCTATC
      LISWTLPHAGR                                                   CCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAG
      AHYYRITYGET                                                   TGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCC
      GGNSPVQEFTV                                                   GGAGAACAACTACAAGACCA
      PGRGVTATISG                                                   CGCCTCCCGTGCTGGACTCC
      LKPGVDYTITV                                                   GACGGCTCCTTCTTCCTCTA
      YAVTVTTTKVI                                                   CAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACA
      HYKPISINYRT                                                   AGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGG
      El    (SEQ ID                                                 AACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGT
                                           77

                          Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                            Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid   N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal    Nucleic Acid Sequence
         Sequence      domain                          domain
      NO:  258)                                                   GATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACA
                                                                  ACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGC
                                                                  CTCTCCCTGTCTCCCGGCCA
                                                                  GCCCGACGAGCCTGGCGGGA
                                                                  GCGGCGTGAGCGACGTGCCA
                                                                  CGGGATCTAGAAGTGGTGGC
                                                                  TGCTACCCCCACAAGCTTGC
                                                                  TGATCTCCTGGACACTGCCT
                                                                  CACGCTGGCCGGGCTCATTA
                                                                  CTATAGAATTACCTACGGGG
                                                                  AGACAGGCGGGAACTCTCCC
                                                                  GTGCAGGAATTCACCGTGCC
                                                                  TGGAAGGGGCGTGACTGCCA
                                                                  CCATCAGTGGGCTGAAGCCA
                                                                  GGAGTGGACTACACAATTAC
                                                                  CGTGTACGCTGTGACTGTGA
                                                                  CCACAACTAAAGTGATCCAC
                                                                  TACAAACCCATCTCTATTAA
                                                                  TTATCGGACCGAAATT
                                                                  (SEQ ID NO: 290)
PRD-  DKTHTCPPCPA DKTHTCPPCPAP     GGSGSGSGS      GVSDVPRDLEVVA   GACAAAACTCACACATGCCC
1180  PELLGGPSVFL ELLGGPSVFLFP     GSGS           ATPTSLLISWTLP   ACCGTGCCCAGCACCTGAAC
      FPPKPKDTLMI PKPKDTLMISRT      (SEQ ID       HAGRAHYYRITYG   TCCTGGGGGGACCGTCAGTC
      SRTPEVTCVVV PEVTCVVVDVSH     NO: 186)       ETGGNSPVQEFTV   TTCCTCTTCCCCCCAAAACC
      DVSHEDPEVKF EDPEVKFNWYVD                    PGRGVTATISGLK   CAAGGACACCCTCATGATCT
      NWYVDGVEVHN GVEVHNAKTKPR                    PGVDYTITVYAVT   CCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACA
      AKTKPREEQYN EEQYNSTYRVVS                    VTTTKVIHYKPIS   TGCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGAG
      STYRVVSVLTV VLTVLHQDWLNG                    INYRTEI    (SEQ CCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCA
      LHQDWLNGKEY KEYKCKVSNKAL                    ID NO: 275)     AGTTCAACTGGTACGTGGAC
      KCKVSNKALPA PAPIEKTISKAK                                    GGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGC
      PIEKTISKAKG GQPREPQVYTLP                                    CAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGG
      QPREPQVYTLP PSRDELTKNQVS                                    AGCAGTACAACAGCACGTAC
      PSRDELTKNQV LTCLVKGFYPSD                                    CGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCAC
      SLTCLVKGFYP IAVEWESNGQPE                                    CGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGC
      SDIAVEWESNG NNYKTTPPVLDS                                    TGAATGGCAAGGAGTACAAG
      QPENNYKTTPP DGSFFLYSKLTV                                    TGCAAGGTCTCCAACAAAGC
      VLDSDGSFFLY DKSRWQQGNVFS                                    CCTCCCAGCCCCCATCGAGA
      SKLTVDKSRWQ CSVMHEALHNHY                                    AAACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAA
      QGNVFSCSVMH TQKSLSLSP                                       GGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACA
      EALHNHYTQKS (SEQ ID NO:                                     GGTGTACACCCTGCCCCCAT
      LSLSPGGSGSG 276)                                            CCCGGGATGAGCTGACCAAG
      SGSGSGSGVSD                                                 AACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTG
      VPRDLEVVAAT                                                 CCTGGTCAAAGGCTTCTATC
      PTSLLISWTLP                                                 CCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAG
      HAGRAHYYRIT                                                 TGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCC
      YGETGGNSPVQ                                                 GGAGAACAACTACAAGACCA
      EFTVPGRGVTA                                                 CGCCTCCCGTGCTGGACTCC
      TISGLKPGVDY                                                 GACGGCTCCTTCTTCCTCTA
      TITVYAVTVTT                                                 CAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACA
      TKVIHYKPISI                                                 AGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGG
      NYRTEI                                                      AACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGT
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                 GATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACA
      259)                                                        ACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGC
                                                                  CTCTCCCTGTCTCCCGGCGG
                                                                  CAGCGGGTCTGGATCTGGCA
                                                                  GTGGGAGCGGCTCTGGCGTG
                                                                  AGCGACGTGCCACGGGATCT
                                                                  AGAAGTGGTGGCTGCTACCC
                                                                  CCACAAGCTTGCTGATCTCC
                                                                  TGGACACTGCCTCACGCTGG
                                                                  CCGGGCTCATTACTATAGAA
                                                                  TTACCTACGGGGAGACAGGC
                                         78

                          Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                            Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid   N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal    Nucleic Acid Sequence
        Sequence       domain                          domain
                                                                 GGGAACTCTCCCGTGCAGGA
                                                                 ATTCACCGTGCCTGGAAGGG
                                                                 GCGTGACTGCCACCATCAGT
                                                                 GGGCTGAAGCCAGGAGTGGA
                                                                 CTACACAATTACCGTGTACG
                                                                 CTGTGACTGTGACCACAACT
                                                                 AAAGTGATCCACTACAAACC
                                                                 CATCTCTATTAATTATCGGA
                                                                 CCGAAATT     (SEQ ID
                                                                 NO: 291)
PRD-  DKTHTCPPCPA DKTHTCPPCPAP     ELQLEESAA      GVSDVPRDLEVVA  GACAAAACTCACACATGCCC
1284  PELLGGPSVFL ELLGGPSVFLFP     EAQDGELD       ATPTSLLISWDAP  ACCGTGCCCAGCACCTGAAC
      FPPKPKDTLMI PKPKDTLMISRT      (SEQ ID       RGLARYYRITYGE  TCCTGGGGGGACCGTCAGTC
      SRTPEVTCVVV PEVTCVVVDVSH     NO: 184)       TGGNSPVQEFTVF  TTCCTCTTCCCCCCAAAACC
      DVSHEDPEVKF EDPEVKFNWYVD                    GRGTTATISGLKP  CAAGGACACCCTCATGATCT
      NWYVDGVEVHN GVEVHNAKTKPR                    GVDYTITVYAVTI  CCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACA
      AKTKPREEQYN EEQYNSTYRVVS                    DRDGTRSFDPISI  TGCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGAG
      STYRVVSVLTV VLTVLHQDWLNG                    NYRTEI    (SEQ CCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCA
      LHQDWLNGKEY KEYKCKVSNKAL                    ID NO: 277)    AGTTCAACTGGTACGTGGAC
      KCKVSNKALPA PAPIEKTISKAK                                   GGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGC
      PIEKTISKAKG GQPREPQVYTLP                                   CAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGG
      QPREPQVYTLP PSRDELTKNQVS                                   AGCAGTACAACAGCACGTAC
      PSRDELTKNQV LTCLVKGFYPSD                                   CGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCAC
      SLTCLVKGFYP IAVEWESNGQPE                                   CGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGC
      SDIAVEWESNG NNYKTTPPVLDS                                   TGAATGGCAAGGAGTACAAG
      QPENNYKTTPP DGSFFLYSKLTV                                   TGCAAGGTCTCCAACAAAGC
      VLDSDGSFFLY DKSRWQQGNVFS                                   CCTCCCAGCCCCCATCGAGA
      SKLTVDKSRWQ CSVMHEALHNHY                                   AAACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAA
      QGNVFSCSVMH TQKSLSLSP                                      GGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACA
      EALHNHYTQKS (SEQ ID NO:                                    GGTGTACACCCTGCCCCCAT
      LSLSPELQLEE 276)                                           CCCGGGATGAGCTGACCAAG
      SAAEAQDGELD                                                AACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTG
      GVSDVPRDLEV                                                CCTGGTCAAAGGCTTCTATC
      VAATPTSLLIS                                                CCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAG
      WDAPRGLARYY                                                TGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCC
      RITYGETGGNS                                                GGAGAACAACTACAAGACCA
      PVQEFTVFGRG                                                CGCCTCCCGTGCTGGACTCC
      TTATISGLKPG                                                GACGGCTCCTTCTTCCTCTA
      VDYTITVYAVT                                                CAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACA
      IDRDGTRSFDP                                                AGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGG
      ISINYRTEI                                                  AACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGT
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                GATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACA
      260)                                                       ACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGC
                                                                 CTCTCCCTGTCTCCCGAGCT
                                                                 GCAGCTGGAGGAAAGCGCCG
                                                                 CTGAGGCTCAGGACGGAGAA
                                                                 CTGGATGGCGTGAGCGACGT
                                                                 GCCACGGGATCTAGAAGTGG
                                                                 TGGCTGCTACCCCCACAAGC
                                                                 TTGCTGATCAGCTGGGACGC
                                                                 TCCGAGAGGTCTGGCTCGAT
                                                                 ATTACCGCATCACTTACGGC
                                                                 GAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCC
                                                                 TGTCCAGGAGTTCACTGTGT
                                                                 TCGGTCGTGGTACCACAGCT
                                                                 ACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACC
                                                                 TGGCGTTGATTATACCATCA
                                                                 CTGTGTATGCTGTCACTATC
                                                                 GACCGTGACGGTACCCGCAG
                                                                 CTTCGACCCAATTTCCATTA
                                                                 ATTACCGGACCGAAATT
                                                                 (SEQ ID NO: 292)
                                         79

                          Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                            Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid   N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal   Nucleic Acid Sequence
        Sequence       domain                          domain
PRD-  DKTHTCPPCPA DKTHTCPPCPAP     ELQLEESAA      GVSDVPRDLEVVA  GACAAAACTCACACATGCCC
1285  PELLGGPSVFL ELLGGPSVFLFP     EAQDGELD       ATPTSLLISWDAP  ACCGTGCCCAGCACCTGAAC
      FPPKPKDTLMI PKPKDTLMISRT      (SEQ ID       AGLARYYRITYGE  TCCTGGGGGGACCGTCAGTC
      SRTPEVTCVVV PEVTCVVVDVSH     NO: 184)       TGGNSPVQEFTVV  TTCCTCTTCCCCCCAAAACC
      DVSHEDPEVKF EDPEVKFNWYVD                    GRGNTATISGLKP  CAAGGACACCCTCATGATCT
      NWYVDGVEVHN GVEVHNAKTKPR                    GVDYTITVYAVTI  CCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACA
      AKTKPREEQYN EEQYNSTYRVVS                    FRDGPVTWDPISI  TGCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGAG
      STYRVVSVLTV VLTVLHQDWLNG                    NYRTEI    (SEQ CCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCA
      LHQDWLNGKEY KEYKCKVSNKAL                    ID NO: 278)    AGTTCAACTGGTACGTGGAC
      KCKVSNKALPA PAPIEKTISKAK                                   GGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGC
      PIEKTISKAKG GQPREPQVYTLP                                   CAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGG
      QPREPQVYTLP PSRDELTKNQVS                                   AGCAGTACAACAGCACGTAC
      PSRDELTKNQV LTCLVKGFYPSD                                   CGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCAC
      SLTCLVKGFYP IAVEWESNGQPE                                   CGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGC
      SDIAVEWESNG NNYKTTPPVLDS                                   TGAATGGCAAGGAGTACAAG
      QPENNYKTTPP DGSFFLYSKLTV                                   TGCAAGGTCTCCAACAAAGC
      VLDSDGSFFLY DKSRWQQGNVFS                                   CCTCCCAGCCCCCATCGAGA
      SKLTVDKSRWQ CSVMHEALHNHY                                   AAACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAA
      QGNVFSCSVMH TQKSLSLSP                                      GGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACA
      EALHNHYTQKS (SEQ ID NO:                                    GGTGTACACCCTGCCCCCAT
      LSLSPELQLEE 276)                                           CCCGGGATGAGCTGACCAAG
      SAAEAQDGELD                                                AACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTG
      GVSDVPRDLEV                                                CCTGGTCAAAGGCTTCTATC
      VAATPTSLLIS                                                CCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAG
      WDAPAGLARYY                                                TGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCC
      RITYGETGGNS                                                GGAGAACAACTACAAGACCA
      PVQEFTVVGRG                                                CGCCTCCCGTGCTGGACTCC
      NTATISGLKPG                                                GACGGCTCCTTCTTCCTCTA
      VDYTITVYAVT                                                CAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACA
      IFRDGPVTWDP                                                AGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGG
      ISINYRTEI                                                  AACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGT
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                GATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACA
      261)                                                       ACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGC
                                                                 CTCTCCCTGTCTCCCGAGCT
                                                                 GCAGCTGGAGGAAAGCGCCG
                                                                 CTGAGGCTCAGGACGGAGAA
                                                                 CTGGATGGCGTGAGCGACGT
                                                                 GCCACGGGATCTAGAAGTGG
                                                                 TGGCTGCTACCCCCACAAGC
                                                                 TTGCTGATCAGCTGGGACGC
                                                                 TCCGGCTGGTCTGGCTCGAT
                                                                 ATTACCGCATCACTTACGGC
                                                                 GAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCC
                                                                 TGTCCAGGAGTTCACTGTGG
                                                                 TCGGTCGTGGTAACACAGCT
                                                                 ACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACC
                                                                 TGGCGTTGATTATACCATCA
                                                                 CTGTGTATGCTGTCACTATC
                                                                 TTCCGTGACGGTCCCGTCAC
                                                                 CTGGGACCCAATTTCCATTA
                                                                 ATTACCGGACCGAAATT
                                                                 (SEQ ID NO: 293)
PRD-  DKTHTCPPCPA DKTHTCPPCPAP     ELQLEESAA      GVSDVPRDLEVVA  GACAAAACTCACACATGCCC
1286  PELLGGPSVFL ELLGGPSVFLFP     EAQDGELD       ATPTSLLISWDAP  ACCGTGCCCAGCACCTGAAC
      FPPKPKDTLMI PKPKDTLMISRT      (SEQ ID       KGLARYYRITYGE  TCCTGGGGGGACCGTCAGTC
      SRTPEVTCVVV PEVTCVVVDVSH     NO: 184)       TGGNSPVQEFTVV  TTCCTCTTCCCCCCAAAACC
      DVSHEDPEVKF EDPEVKFNWYVD                    GRGNTATISGLKP  CAAGGACACCCTCATGATCT
      NWYVDGVEVHN GVEVHNAKTKPR                    GVDYTITVYAVTI  CCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACA
      AKTKPREEQYN EEQYNSTYRVVS                    FRDGPVTWDPISI  TGCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGAG
      STYRVVSVLTV VLTVLHQDWLNG                    NYRTEI    (SEQ CCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCA
      LHQDWLNGKEY KEYKCKVSNKAL                    ID NO: 279)    AGTTCAACTGGTACGTGGAC
      KCKVSNKALPA PAPIEKTISKAK                                   GGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGC
                                         80

                          Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                            Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid   N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal    Nucleic Acid Sequence
        Sequence       domain                          domain
      PIEKTISKAKG GQPREPQVYTLP                                    CAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGG
      QPREPQVYTLP PSRDELTKNQVS                                    AGCAGTACAACAGCACGTAC
      PSRDELTKNQV LTCLVKGFYPSD                                    CGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCAC
      SLTCLVKGFYP IAVEWESNGQPE                                    CGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGC
      SDIAVEWESNG NNYKTTPPVLDS                                    TGAATGGCAAGGAGTACAAG
      QPENNYKTTPP DGSFFLYSKLTV                                    TGCAAGGTCTCCAACAAAGC
      VLDSDGSFFLY DKSRWQQGNVFS                                    CCTCCCAGCCCCCATCGAGA
      SKLTVDKSRWQ CSVMHEALHNHY                                    AAACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAA
      QGNVFSCSVMH TQKSLSLSP                                       GGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACA
      EALHNHYTQKS (SEQ ID NO:                                     GGTGTACACCCTGCCCCCAT
      LSLSPELQLEE 276)                                            CCCGGGATGAGCTGACCAAG
      SAAEAQDGELD                                                 AACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTG
      GVSDVPRDLEV                                                 CCTGGTCAAAGGCTTCTATC
      VAATPTSLLIS                                                 CCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAG
      WDAPKGLARYY                                                 TGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCC
      RITYGETGGNS                                                 GGAGAACAACTACAAGACCA
      PVQEFTVVGRG                                                 CGCCTCCCGTGCTGGACTCC
      NTATISGLKPG                                                 GACGGCTCCTTCTTCCTCTA
      VDYTITVYAVT                                                 CAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACA
      IFRDGPVTWDP                                                 AGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGG
      ISINYRTEI                                                   AACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGT
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                 GATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACA
      262)                                                        ACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGC
                                                                  CTCTCCCTGTCTCCCGAGCT
                                                                  GCAGCTGGAGGAAAGCGCCG
                                                                  CTGAGGCTCAGGACGGAGAA
                                                                  CTGGATGGCGTGAGCGACGT
                                                                  GCCACGGGATCTAGAAGTGG
                                                                  TGGCTGCTACCCCCACAAGC
                                                                  TTGCTGATCAGCTGGGACGC
                                                                  TCCGAAGGGTCTGGCTCGAT
                                                                  ATTACCGCATCACTTACGGC
                                                                  GAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCC
                                                                  TGTCCAGGAGTTCACTGTGG
                                                                  TCGGTCGTGGTAACACAGCT
                                                                  ACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACC
                                                                  TGGCGTTGATTATACCATCA
                                                                  CTGTGTATGCTGTCACTATC
                                                                  TTCCGTGACGGTCCCGTCAC
                                                                  CTGGGACCCAATTTCCATTA
                                                                  ATTACCGGACCGAAATT
                                                                  (SEQ ID NO: 294)
PRD-  DKTHTCPPCPA DKTHTCPPCPAP     ELQLEESAA      GVSDVPRDLEVVA   GACAAAACTCACACATGCCC
1287  PELLGGPSVFL ELLGGPSVFLFP     EAQDGELD       ATPTSLLISWSLP   ACCGTGCCCAGCACCTGAAC
      FPPKPKDTLMI PKPKDTLMISRT      (SEQ ID       NPGNAHYYRITYG   TCCTGGGGGGACCGTCAGTC
      SRTPEVTCVVV PEVTCVVVDVSH     NO: 184)       ETGGNSPVQEFTV   TTCCTCTTCCCCCCAAAACC
      DVSHEDPEVKF EDPEVKFNWYVD                    PGRGVTATISGLK   CAAGGACACCCTCATGATCT
      NWYVDGVEVHN GVEVHNAKTKPR                    PGVDYTITVYAVT   CCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACA
      AKTKPREEQYN EEQYNSTYRVVS                    VTDTGFITYKPIS   TGCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGAG
      STYRVVSVLTV VLTVLHQDWLNG                    INYRTEI    (SEQ CCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCA
      LHQDWLNGKEY KEYKCKVSNKAL                    ID NO: 280)     AGTTCAACTGGTACGTGGAC
      KCKVSNKALPA PAPIEKTISKAK                                    GGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGC
      PIEKTISKAKG GQPREPQVYTLP                                    CAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGG
      QPREPQVYTLP PSRDELTKNQVS                                    AGCAGTACAACAGCACGTAC
      PSRDELTKNQV LTCLVKGFYPSD                                    CGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCAC
      SLTCLVKGFYP IAVEWESNGQPE                                    CGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGC
      SDIAVEWESNG NNYKTTPPVLDS                                    TGAATGGCAAGGAGTACAAG
      QPENNYKTTPP DGSFFLYSKLTV                                    TGCAAGGTCTCCAACAAAGC
      VLDSDGSFFLY DKSRWQQGNVFS                                    CCTCCCAGCCCCCATCGAGA
      SKLTVDKSRWQ CSVMHEALHNHY                                    AAACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAA
      QGNVFSCSVMH TQKSLSLSP                                       GGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACA
      EALHNHYTQKS (SEQ ID NO:                                     GGTGTACACCCTGCCCCCAT
                                         81

                          Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                            Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid   N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal    Nucleic Acid Sequence
        Sequence       domain                          domain
      LSLSPELQLEE 276)                                            CCCGGGATGAGCTGACCAAG
      SAAEAQDGELD                                                 AACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTG
      GVSDVPRDLEV                                                 CCTGGTCAAAGGCTTCTATC
      VAATPTSLLIS                                                 CCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAG
      WSLPNPGNAHY                                                 TGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCC
      YRITYGETGGN                                                 GGAGAACAACTACAAGACCA
      SPVQEFTVPGR                                                 CGCCTCCCGTGCTGGACTCC
      GVTATISGLKP                                                 GACGGCTCCTTCTTCCTCTA
      GVDYTITVYAV                                                 CAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACA
      TVTDTGFITYK                                                 AGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGG
      PISINYRTEI                                                  AACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGT
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                 GATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACA
      263)                                                        ACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGC
                                                                  CTCTCCCTGTCTCCCGAGCT
                                                                  GCAGCTGGAGGAAAGCGCCG
                                                                  CTGAGGCTCAGGACGGAGAA
                                                                  CTGGATGGCGTGAGCGACGT
                                                                  GCCACGGGATCTAGAAGTGG
                                                                  TGGCTGCTACCCCCACAAGC
                                                                  TTGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCT
                                                                  GCCGAATCCGGGTAACGCCC
                                                                  ATTATTACCGCATCACTTAC
                                                                  GGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAG
                                                                  CCCTGTCCAGGAGTTCACTG
                                                                  TGCCTGGTCGTGGTGTTACA
                                                                  GCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAA
                                                                  ACCTGGCGTTGATTATACCA
                                                                  TCACTGTGTATGCTGTCACT
                                                                  GTTACTGACACAGGTTTCAT
                                                                  CACGTACAAACCAATTTCCA
                                                                  TTAATTACCGGACCGAAATT
                                                                  (SEQ ID NO:   295)
PRD-  DKTHTCPPCPA DKTHTCPPCPAP     ELQLEESAA      GVSDVPRDLEVVA   GACAAAACTCACACATGCCC
1288  PELLGGPSVFL ELLGGPSVFLFP     EAQDGELD       ATPTSLLISWSLP   ACCGTGCCCAGCACCTGAAC
      FPPKPKDTLMI PKPKDTLMISRT      (SEQ ID       HQGKANYYRITYG   TCCTGGGGGGACCGTCAGTC
      SRTPEVTCVVV PEVTCVVVDVSH     NO: 184)       ETGGNSPVQEFTV   TTCCTCTTCCCCCCAAAACC
      DVSHEDPEVKF EDPEVKFNWYVD                    PGRGVTATISGLK   CAAGGACACCCTCATGATCT
      NWYVDGVEVHN GVEVHNAKTKPR                    PGVDYTITVYAVT   CCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACA
      AKTKPREEQYN EEQYNSTYRVVS                    VTDTGYLKYKPIS   TGCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGAG
      STYRVVSVLTV VLTVLHQDWLNG                    INYRTEI    (SEQ CCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCA
      LHQDWLNGKEY KEYKCKVSNKAL                    ID NO: 281)     AGTTCAACTGGTACGTGGAC
      KCKVSNKALPA PAPIEKTISKAK                                    GGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGC
      PIEKTISKAKG GQPREPQVYTLP                                    CAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGG
      QPREPQVYTLP PSRDELTKNQVS                                    AGCAGTACAACAGCACGTAC
      PSRDELTKNQV LTCLVKGFYPSD                                    CGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCAC
      SLTCLVKGFYP IAVEWESNGQPE                                    CGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGC
      SDIAVEWESNG NNYKTTPPVLDS                                    TGAATGGCAAGGAGTACAAG
      QPENNYKTTPP DGSFFLYSKLTV                                    TGCAAGGTCTCCAACAAAGC
      VLDSDGSFFLY DKSRWQQGNVFS                                    CCTCCCAGCCCCCATCGAGA
      SKLTVDKSRWQ CSVMHEALHNHY                                    AAACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAA
      QGNVFSCSVMH TQKSLSLSP                                       GGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACA
      EALHNHYTQKS (SEQ ID NO:                                     GGTGTACACCCTGCCCCCAT
      LSLSPELQLEE 276)                                            CCCGGGATGAGCTGACCAAG
      SAAEAQDGELD                                                 AACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTG
      GVSDVPRDLEV                                                 CCTGGTCAAAGGCTTCTATC
      VAATPTSLLIS                                                 CCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAG
      WSLPHQGKANY                                                 TGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCC
      YRITYGETGGN                                                 GGAGAACAACTACAAGACCA
      SPVQEFTVPGR                                                 CGCCTCCCGTGCTGGACTCC
      GVTATISGLKP                                                 GACGGCTCCTTCTTCCTCTA
      GVDYTITVYAV                                                 CAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACA
      TVTDTGYLKYK                                                 AGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGG
                                         82

                          Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                            Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid   N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal   Nucleic Acid Sequence
         Sequence     domain                           domain
      PISINYRTEI                                                 AACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGT
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                GATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACA
      264)                                                       ACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGC
                                                                 CTCTCCCTGTCTCCCGAGCT
                                                                 GCAGCTGGAGGAAAGCGCCG
                                                                 CTGAGGCTCAGGACGGAGAA
                                                                 CTGGATGGCGTGAGCGACGT
                                                                 GCCACGGGATCTAGAAGTGG
                                                                 TGGCTGCTACCCCCACAAGC
                                                                 TTGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCT
                                                                 GCCGCACCAAGGTAAAGCCA
                                                                 ATTATTACCGCATCACTTAC
                                                                 GGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAG
                                                                 CCCTGTCCAGGAGTTCACTG
                                                                 TGCCTGGTCGTGGTGTTACA
                                                                 GCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAA
                                                                 ACCTGGCGTTGATTATACCA
                                                                 TCACTGTGTATGCTGTCACT
                                                                 GTTACTGATACAGGGTACCT
                                                                 CAAGTACAAACCAATTTCCA
                                                                 TTAATTACCGGACCGAAATT
                                                                 (SEQ ID NO:   296)
PRD-  GVSDVPRDLEV GVSDVPRDLEVV     EPKSSD         KTHTCPPCPAPEL  GGCGTGAGCGACGTGCCCCG
1301  VAATPTSLLIS AATPTSLLISWD      (SEQ ID       LGGPSVFLFPPKP  GGATCTAGAAGTGGTGGCTG
      WDAPRGLARYY APRGLARYYRIT     NO: 182)       KDTLMISRTPEVT  CTACCCCCACAAGCTTGCTG
      RITYGETGGNS YGETGGNSPVQE                    CVVVDVSHEDPEV  ATCAGCTGGGACGCTCCGAG
      PVQEFTVFGRG FTVFGRGTTATI                    KFNWYVDGVEVHN  AGGTCTGGCTCGATATTACC
      TTATISGLKPG SGLKPGVDYTIT                    AKTKPREEQYNST  GCATCACTTACGGCGAAACA
      VDYTITVYAVT VYAVTIDRDGTR                    YRVVSVLTVLHQD  GGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCA
      IDRDGTRSFDP SFDPISINYRTE                    WLNGKEYKCKVSN  GGAGTTCACTGTGTTCGGTC
      ISINYRTEIEP I   (SEQ ID                     KALPAPIEKTISK  GTGGTACCACAGCTACCATC
      KSSDKTHTCPP NO: 277)                        AKGQPREPQVYTL  AGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCGT
      CPAPELLGGPS                                 PPSRDELTKNQVS  TGATTATACCATCACTGTGT
      VFLFPPKPKDT                                 LTCLVKGFYPSDI  ATGCTGTCACTATCGACCGT
      LMISRTPEVTC                                 AVEWESNGQPENN  GACGGTACCCGCAGCTTCGA
      VVVDVSHEDPE                                 YKTTPPVLDSDGS  CCCAATTTCCATTAATTACC
      VKFNWYVDGVE                                 FFLYSKLTVDKSR  GGACCGAAATTGAGCCTAAG
      VHNAKTKPREE                                 WQQGNVFSCSVMH  AGCTCCGACAAAACCCACAC
      QYNSTYRVVSV                                 EALHNHYTQKSLS  ATGCCCACCTTGTCCAGCCC
      LTVLHQDWLNG                                 LSPGK     (SEQ CCGAACTGCTGGGCGGCCCT
      KEYKCKVSNKA                                 ID NO: 283)    TCAGTCTTCCTCTTCCCCCC
      LPAPIEKTISK                                                AAAACCCAAGGACACCCTCA
      AKGQPREPQVY                                                TGATCTCCCGGACCCCTGAG
      TLPPSRDELTK                                                GTCACATGCGTGGTGGTGGA
      NQVSLTCLVKG                                                CGTGAGCCACGAAGACCCTG
      FYPSDIAVEWE                                                AGGTCAAGTTCAACTGGTAC
      SNGQPENNYKT                                                GTGGACGGCGTGGAGGTGCA
      TPPVLDSDGSF                                                TAATGCCAAGACAAAGCCGC
      FLYSKLTVDKS                                                GGGAGGAGCAGTACAACAGC
      RWQQGNVFSCS                                                ACGTACCGTGTGGTCAGCGT
      VMHEALHNHYT                                                CCTCACCGTCCTGCACCAGG
      QKSLSLSPGK                                                 ACTGGCTGAATGGCAAGGAG
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                TACAAGTGCAAGGTCTCCAA
      265)                                                       CAAAGCCCTCCCAGCCCCCA
                                                                 TCGAGAAAACCATCTCCAAA
                                                                 GCCAAAGGGCAGCCCCGAGA
                                                                 ACCACAGGTGTACACCCTGC
                                                                 CCCCATCCCGGGATGAGCTG
                                                                 ACCAAGAACCAGGTCAGCCT
                                                                 GACCTGCCTGGTCAAAGGCT
                                                                 TCTATCCCAGCGACATCGCC
                                                                 GTGGAGTGGGAGAGCAATGG
                                         83

                          Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                             Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid   N-terminal         Linker         C-terminal   Nucleic Acid Sequence
        Sequence      domain                           domain
                                                                 GCAGCCGGAGAACAACTACA
                                                                 AGACCACGCCTCCCGTGTTG
                                                                 GACTCCGACGGCTCCTTCTT
                                                                 CCTCTACAGCAAGCTCACCG
                                                                 TGGACAAGAGCAGGTGGCAG
                                                                 CAGGGGAACGTCTTCTCATG
                                                                 CTCCGTGATGCATGAGGCTC
                                                                 TGCACAACCACTACACGCAG
                                                                 AAGAGCCTCTCCCTGTCTCC
                                                                 CGGGAAA     (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                 297)
PRD-  GVSDVPRDLEV GVSDVPRDLEVV     EPKSSD          KTHTCPPCPAPEL GGCGTGAGCGACGTGCCCCG
1302  VAATPTSLLIS AATPTSLLISWD      (SEQ ID        LGGPSVFLFPPKP GGATCTAGAAGTGGTGGCTG
      WDAPAGLARYY APAGLARYYRIT     NO: 182)        KDTLMISRTPEVT CTACCCCCACAAGCTTGCTG
      RITYGETGGNS YGETGGNSPVQE                     CVVVDVSHEDPEV ATCAGCTGGGACGCTCCGGC
      PVQEFTVVGRG FTVVGRGNTATI                     KFNWYVDGVEVHN TGGTCTGGCTCGATATTACC
      NTATISGLKPG SGLKPGVDYTIT                     AKTKPREEQYNST GCATCACTTACGGCGAAACA
      VDYTITVYAVT VYAVTIFRDGPV                     YRVVSVLTVLHQD GGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCA
      IFRDGPVTWDP TWDPISINYRTE                     WLNGKEYKCKVSN GGAGTTCACTGTGGTCGGTC
      ISINYRTEIEP I   (SEQ ID                      KALPAPIEKTISK GTGGTAACACAGCTACCATC
      KSSDKTHTCPP NO: 278)                         AKGQPREPQVYTL AGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCGT
      CPAPELLGGPS                                  PPSRDELTKNQVS TGATTATACCATCACTGTGT
      VFLFPPKPKDT                                  LTCLVKGFYPSDI ATGCTGTCACTATCTTCCGT
      LMISRTPEVTC                                  AVEWESNGQPENN GACGGTCCCGTCACCTGGGA
      VVVDVSHEDPE                                  YKTTPPVLDSDGS CCCAATTTCCATTAATTACC
      VKFNWYVDGVE                                  FFLYSKLTVDKSR GGACCGAAATTGAGCCTAAG
      VHNAKTKPREE                                  WQQGNVFSCSVMH AGCTCCGACAAAACCCACAC
      QYNSTYRVVSV                                  EALHNHYTQKSLS ATGCCCACCTTGTCCAGCCC
      LTVLHQDWLNG                                  LSPGK    (SEQ CCGAACTGCTGGGCGGCCCT
      KEYKCKVSNKA                                  ID NO:   283) TCAGTCTTCCTCTTCCCCCC
      LPAPIEKTISK                                                AAAACCCAAGGACACCCTCA
      AKGQPREPQVY                                                TGATCTCCCGGACCCCTGAG
      TLPPSRDELTK                                                GTCACATGCGTGGTGGTGGA
      NQVSLTCLVKG                                                CGTGAGCCACGAAGACCCTG
      FYPSDIAVEWE                                                AGGTCAAGTTCAACTGGTAC
      SNGQPENNYKT                                                GTGGACGGCGTGGAGGTGCA
      TPPVLDSDGSF                                                TAATGCCAAGACAAAGCCGC
      FLYSKLTVDKS                                                GGGAGGAGCAGTACAACAGC
      RWQQGNVFSCS                                                ACGTACCGTGTGGTCAGCGT
      VMHEALHNHYT                                                CCTCACCGTCCTGCACCAGG
      QKSLSLSPGK                                                 ACTGGCTGAATGGCAAGGAG
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                TACAAGTGCAAGGTCTCCAA
      266)                                                       CAAAGCCCTCCCAGCCCCCA
                                                                 TCGAGAAAACCATCTCCAAA
                                                                 GCCAAAGGGCAGCCCCGAGA
                                                                 ACCACAGGTGTACACCCTGC
                                                                 CCCCATCCCGGGATGAGCTG
                                                                 ACCAAGAACCAGGTCAGCCT
                                                                 GACCTGCCTGGTCAAAGGCT
                                                                 TCTATCCCAGCGACATCGCC
                                                                 GTGGAGTGGGAGAGCAATGG
                                                                 GCAGCCGGAGAACAACTACA
                                                                 AGACCACGCCTCCCGTGTTG
                                                                 GACTCCGACGGCTCCTTCTT
                                                                 CCTCTACAGCAAGCTCACCG
                                                                 TGGACAAGAGCAGGTGGCAG
                                                                 CAGGGGAACGTCTTCTCATG
                                                                 CTCCGTGATGCATGAGGCTC
                                                                 TGCACAACCACTACACGCAG
                                                                 AAGAGCCTCTCCCTGTCTCC
                                                                 CGGGAAA     (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                 298)
                                          84

                          Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                            Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid   N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal    Nucleic Acid Sequence
        Sequence      domain                           domain
PRD-  GVSDVPRDLEV GVSDVPRDLEVV     EPKSSD         KTHTCPPCPAPEL  GGCGTGAGCGACGTGCCCCG
1303  VAATPTSLLIS AATPTSLLISWD      (SEQ ID       LGGPSVFLFPPKP  GGATCTAGAAGTGGTGGCTG
      WDAPKGLARYY APKGLARYYRIT     NO: 182)       KDTLMISRTPEVT  CTACCCCCACAAGCTTGCTG
      RITYGETGGNS YGETGGNSPVQE                    CVVVDVSHEDPEV  ATCAGCTGGGACGCTCCGAA
      PVQEFTVVGRG FTVVGRGNTATI                    KFNWYVDGVEVHN  GGGTCTGGCTCGATATTACC
      NTATISGLKPG SGLKPGVDYTIT                    AKTKPREEQYNST  GCATCACTTACGGCGAAACA
      VDYTITVYAVT VYAVTIFRDGPV                    YRVVSVLTVLHQD  GGAGGCAATAGCCCTGTCCA
      IFRDGPVTWDP TWDPISINYRTE                    WLNGKEYKCKVSN  GGAGTTCACTGTGGTCGGTC
      ISINYRTEIEP I   (SEQ ID                     KALPAPIEKTISK  GTGGTAACACAGCTACCATC
      KSSDKTHTCPP NO: 279)                        AKGQPREPQVYTL  AGCGGCCTTAAACCTGGCGT
      CPAPELLGGPS                                 PPSRDELTKNQVS  TGATTATACCATCACTGTGT
      VFLFPPKPKDT                                 LTCLVKGFYPSDI  ATGCTGTCACTATCTTCCGT
      LMISRTPEVTC                                 AVEWESNGQPENN  GACGGTCCCGTCACCTGGGA
      VVVDVSHEDPE                                 YKTTPPVLDSDGS  CCCAATTTCCATTAATTACC
      VKFNWYVDGVE                                 FFLYSKLTVDKSR  GGACCGAAATTGAGCCTAAG
      VHNAKTKPREE                                 WQQGNVFSCSVMH  AGCTCCGACAAAACCCACAC
      QYNSTYRVVSV                                 EALHNHYTQKSLS  ATGCCCACCTTGTCCAGCCC
      LTVLHQDWLNG                                 LSPGK     (SEQ CCGAACTGCTGGGCGGCCCT
      KEYKCKVSNKA                                 ID NO: 283)    TCAGTCTTCCTCTTCCCCCC
      LPAPIEKTISK                                                AAAACCCAAGGACACCCTCA
      AKGQPREPQVY                                                TGATCTCCCGGACCCCTGAG
      TLPPSRDELTK                                                GTCACATGCGTGGTGGTGGA
      NQVSLTCLVKG                                                CGTGAGCCACGAAGACCCTG
      FYPSDIAVEWE                                                AGGTCAAGTTCAACTGGTAC
      SNGQPENNYKT                                                GTGGACGGCGTGGAGGTGCA
      TPPVLDSDGSF                                                TAATGCCAAGACAAAGCCGC
      FLYSKLTVDKS                                                GGGAGGAGCAGTACAACAGC
      RWQQGNVFSCS                                                ACGTACCGTGTGGTCAGCGT
      VMHEALHNHYT                                                CCTCACCGTCCTGCACCAGG
      QKSLSLSPGK                                                 ACTGGCTGAATGGCAAGGAG
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                TACAAGTGCAAGGTCTCCAA
      267)                                                       CAAAGCCCTCCCAGCCCCCA
                                                                 TCGAGAAAACCATCTCCAAA
                                                                 GCCAAAGGGCAGCCCCGAGA
                                                                 ACCACAGGTGTACACCCTGC
                                                                 CCCCATCCCGGGATGAGCTG
                                                                 ACCAAGAACCAGGTCAGCCT
                                                                 GACCTGCCTGGTCAAAGGCT
                                                                 TCTATCCCAGCGACATCGCC
                                                                 GTGGAGTGGGAGAGCAATGG
                                                                 GCAGCCGGAGAACAACTACA
                                                                 AGACCACGCCTCCCGTGTTG
                                                                 GACTCCGACGGCTCCTTCTT
                                                                 CCTCTACAGCAAGCTCACCG
                                                                 TGGACAAGAGCAGGTGGCAG
                                                                 CAGGGGAACGTCTTCTCATG
                                                                 CTCCGTGATGCATGAGGCTC
                                                                 TGCACAACCACTACACGCAG
                                                                 AAGAGCCTCTCCCTGTCTCC
                                                                 CGGGAAA     (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                 299)
                                         85

                           Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                              Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid    N-terminal         Linker         C-terminal   Nucleic Acid Sequence
        Sequence      domain                            domain
PRD-  GVSDVPRDLEV GVSDVPRDLEVV      EPKSSD          KTHTCPPCPAPEL GGCGTGAGCGACGTGCCCCG
1304  VAATPTSLLIS AATPTSLLISWS       (SEQ ID        LGGPSVFLFPPKP GGATCTAGAAGTGGTGGCTG
      WSLPNPGNAHY LPNPGNAHYYRI      NO: 182)        KDTLMISRTPEVT CTACCCCCACAAGCTTGCTG
      YRITYGETGGN TYGETGGNSPVQ                      CVVVDVSHEDPEV ATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGAA
      SPVQEFTVPGR EFTVPGRGVTAT                      KFNWYVDGVEVHN TCCGGGTAACGCCCATTATT
      GVTATISGLKP ISGLKPGVDYTI                      AKTKPREEQYNST ACCGCATCACTTACGGCGAA
      GVDYTITVYAV TVYAVTVTDTGF                      YRVVSVLTVLHQD ACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGT
      TVTDTGFITYK ITYKPISINYRT                      WLNGKEYKCKVSN CCAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTG
      PISINYRTEIE El    (SEQ ID                     KALPAPIEKTISK GTCGTGGTGTTACAGCTACC
      PKSSDKTHTCP NO: 280)                          AKGQPREPQVYTL ATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGG
      PCPAPELLGGP                                   PPSRDELTKNQVS CGTTGATTATACCATCACTG
      SVFLFPPKPKD                                   LTCLVKGFYPSDI TGTATGCTGTCACTGTTACT
      TLMISRTPEVT                                   AVEWESNGQPENN GACACAGGTTTCATCACGTA
      CVVVDVSHEDP                                   YKTTPPVLDSDGS CAAACCAATTTCCATTAATT
      EVKFNWYVDGV                                   FFLYSKLTVDKSR ACCGGACCGAAATTGAGCCT
      EVHNAKTKPRE                                   WQQGNVFSCSVMH AAGAGCTCCGACAAAACCCA
      EQYNSTYRVVS                                   EALHNHYTQKSLS CACATGCCCACCTTGTCCAG
      VLTVLHQDWLN                                   LSPGK    (SEQ CCCCCGAACTGCTGGGCGGC
      GKEYKCKVSNK                                   ID NO: 283)   CCTTCAGTCTTCCTCTTCCC
      ALPAPIEKTIS                                                 CCCAAAACCCAAGGACACCC
      KAKGQPREPQV                                                 TCATGATCTCCCGGACCCCT
      YTLPPSRDELT                                                 GAGGTCACATGCGTGGTGGT
      KNQVSLTCLVK                                                 GGACGTGAGCCACGAAGACC
      GFYPSDIAVEW                                                 CTGAGGTCAAGTTCAACTGG
      ESNGQPENNYK                                                 TACGTGGACGGCGTGGAGGT
      TTPPVLDSDGS                                                 GCATAATGCCAAGACAAAGC
      FFLYSKLTVDK                                                 CGCGGGAGGAGCAGTACAAC
      SRWQQGNVFSC                                                 AGCACGTACCGTGTGGTCAG
      SVMHEALHNHY                                                 CGTCCTCACCGTCCTGCACC
      TQKSLSLSPGK                                                 AGGACTGGCTGAATGGCAAG
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                 GAGTACAAGTGCAAGGTCTC
      268)                                                        CAACAAAGCCCTCCCAGCCC
                                                                  CCATCGAGAAAACCATCTCC
                                                                  AAAGCCAAAGGGCAGCCCCG
                                                                  AGAACCACAGGTGTACACCC
                                                                  TGCCCCCATCCCGGGATGAG
                                                                  CTGACCAAGAACCAGGTCAG
                                                                  CCTGACCTGCCTGGTCAAAG
                                                                  GCTTCTATCCCAGCGACATC
                                                                  GCCGTGGAGTGGGAGAGCAA
                                                                  TGGGCAGCCGGAGAACAACT
                                                                  ACAAGACCACGCCTCCCGTG
                                                                  TTGGACTCCGACGGCTCCTT
                                                                  CTTCCTCTACAGCAAGCTCA
                                                                  CCGTGGACAAGAGCAGGTGG
                                                                  CAGCAGGGGAACGTCTTCTC
                                                                  ATGCTCCGTGATGCATGAGG
                                                                  CTCTGCACAACCACTACACG
                                                                  CAGAAGAGCCTCTCCCTGTC
                                                                  TCCCGGGAAA      (SEQ ID
                                                                  NO: 300)
PRD-  GVSDVPRDLEV GVSDVPRDLEVV      EPKSSD          KTHTCPPCPAPEL GGCGTGAGCGACGTGCCCCG
1305  VAATPTSLLIS AATPTSLLISWS       (SEQ ID        LGGPSVFLFPPKP GGATCTAGAAGTGGTGGCTG
      WSLPHQGKANY LPHQGKANYYRI      NO: 182)        KDTLMISRTPEVT CTACCCCCACAAGCTTGCTG
      YRITYGETGGN TYGETGGNSPVQ                      CVVVDVSHEDPEV ATCAGCTGGTCTCTGCCGCA
      SPVQEFTVPGR EFTVPGRGVTAT                      KFNWYVDGVEVHN CCAAGGTAAAGCCAATTATT
      GVTATISGLKP ISGLKPGVDYTI                      AKTKPREEQYNST ACCGCATCACTTACGGCGAA
      GVDYTITVYAV TVYAVTVTDTGY                      YRVVSVLTVLHQD ACAGGAGGCAATAGCCCTGT
      TVTDTGYLKYK LKYKPISINYRT                      WLNGKEYKCKVSN CCAGGAGTTCACTGTGCCTG
      PISINYRTEIE El    (SEQ ID                     KALPAPIEKTISK GTCGTGGTGTTACAGCTACC
      PKSSDKTHTCP NO: 281)                          AKGQPREPQVYTL ATCAGCGGCCTTAAACCTGG
      PCPAPELLGGP                                   PPSRDELTKNQVS CGTTGATTATACCATCACTG
                                           86

                           Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                             Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid    N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal      Nucleic Acid Sequence
         Sequence       domain                          domain
      SVFLFPPKPKD                                  LTCLVKGFYPSDI    TGTATGCTGTCACTGTTACT
      TLMISRTPEVT                                  AVEWESNGQPENN    GATACAGGGTACCTCAAGTA
      CVVVDVSHEDP                                  YKTTPPVLDSDGS    CAAACCAATTTCCATTAATT
      EVKFNWYVDGV                                  FFLYSKLTVDKSR    ACCGGACCGAAATTGAGCCT
      EVHNAKTKPRE                                  WQQGNVFSCSVMH    AAGAGCTCCGACAAAACCCA
      EQYNSTYRVVS                                  EALHNHYTQKSLS    CACATGCCCACCTTGTCCAG
      VLTVLHQDWLN                                  LSPGK     (SEQ   CCCCCGAACTGCTGGGCGGC
      GKEYKCKVSNK                                  ID NO: 283)      CCTTCAGTCTTCCTCTTCCC
      ALPAPIEKTIS                                                   CCCAAAACCCAAGGACACCC
      KAKGQPREPQV                                                   TCATGATCTCCCGGACCCCT
      YTLPPSRDELT                                                   GAGGTCACATGCGTGGTGGT
      KNQVSLTCLVK                                                   GGACGTGAGCCACGAAGACC
      GFYPSDIAVEW                                                   CTGAGGTCAAGTTCAACTGG
      ESNGQPENNYK                                                   TACGTGGACGGCGTGGAGGT
      TTPPVLDSDGS                                                   GCATAATGCCAAGACAAAGC
      FFLYSKLTVDK                                                   CGCGGGAGGAGCAGTACAAC
      SRWQQGNVFSC                                                   AGCACGTACCGTGTGGTCAG
      SVMHEALHNHY                                                   CGTCCTCACCGTCCTGCACC
      TQKSLSLSPGK                                                   AGGACTGGCTGAATGGCAAG
      (SEQ  ID NO:                                                  GAGTACAAGTGCAAGGTCTC
      269)                                                          CAACAAAGCCCTCCCAGCCC
                                                                    CCATCGAGAAAACCATCTCC
                                                                    AAAGCCAAAGGGCAGCCCCG
                                                                    AGAACCACAGGTGTACACCC
                                                                    TGCCCCCATCCCGGGATGAG
                                                                    CTGACCAAGAACCAGGTCAG
                                                                    CCTGACCTGCCTGGTCAAAG
                                                                    GCTTCTATCCCAGCGACATC
                                                                    GCCGTGGAGTGGGAGAGCAA
                                                                    TGGGCAGCCGGAGAACAACT
                                                                    ACAAGACCACGCCTCCCGTG
                                                                    TTGGACTCCGACGGCTCCTT
                                                                    CTTCCTCTACAGCAAGCTCA
                                                                    CCGTGGACAAGAGCAGGTGG
                                                                    CAGCAGGGGAACGTCTTCTC
                                                                    ATGCTCCGTGATGCATGAGG
                                                                    CTCTGCACAACCACTACACG
                                                                    CAGAAGAGCCTCTCCCTGTC
                                                                    TCCCGGGAAA      (SEQ ID
                                                                    NO:  301)
PRD-  DKTHTCPPCPA  DKTHTCPPCPAP     ELQLEESAA      GVSDVPRDLEVVA    GACAAAACTCACACATGCCC
1471  PELLGGPSVFL  ELLGGPSVFLFP     EAQEGELE       ATPTSLLISWTLP    ACCGTGCCCAGCACCTGAAC
      FPPKPKDTLMI  PKPKDTLMISRT      (SEQ ID       HAGRAHYYRITYG    TCCTGGGGGGACCGTCAGTC
      SRTPEVTCVVV  PEVTCVVVDVSH     NO: 187)       ETGGNSPVQEFTV    TTCCTCTTCCCCCCAAAACC
      DVSHEDPEVKF  EDPEVKFNWYVD                    PGRGVTATISGLK    CAAGGACACCCTCATGATCT
      NWYVDGVEVHN  GVEVHNAKTKPR                    PGVDYTITVYAVT    CCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACA
      AKTKPREEQYN  EEQYNSTYRVVS                    VTTTKVIHYKPIS    TGCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGAG
      STYRVVSVLTV  VLTVLHQDWLNG                    INYRTEI     (SEQ CCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCA
      LHQDWLNGKEY  KEYKCKVSNKAL                    ID NO: 275)      AGTTCAACTGGTACGTGGAC
      KCKVSNKALPA  PAPIEKTISKAK                                     GGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGC
      PIEKTISKAKG  GQPREPQVYTLP                                     CAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGG
      QPREPQVYTLP  PSRDELTKNQVS                                     AGCAGTACAACAGCACGTAC
      PSRDELTKNQV  LTCLVKGFYPSD                                     CGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCAC
      SLTCLVKGFYP  IAVEWESNGQPE                                     CGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGC
      SDIAVEWESNG  NNYKTTPPVLDS                                     TGAATGGCAAGGAGTACAAG
      QPENNYKTTPP  DGSFFLYSKLTV                                     TGCAAGGTCTCCAACAAAGC
      VLDSDGSFFLY  DKSRWQQGNVFS                                     CCTCCCAGCCCCCATCGAGA
      SKLTVDKSRWQ  CSVMHEALHNHY                                     AAACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAA
      QGNVFSCSVMH  TQKSLSLSP                                        GGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACA
      EALHNHYTQKS  (SEQ ID NO:                                      GGTGTACACCCTGCCCCCAT
      LSLSPELQLEE  276)                                             CCCGGGATGAGCTGACCAAG
      SAAEAQEGELE                                                   AACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTG
                                          87

                          Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                            Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid   N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal   Nucleic Acid Sequence
        Sequence       domain                          domain
      GVSDVPRDLEV                                                CCTGGTCAAAGGCTTCTATC
      VAATPTSLLIS                                                CCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAG
      WTLPHAGRAHY                                                TGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCC
      YRITYGETGGN                                                GGAGAACAACTACAAGACCA
      SPVQEFTVPGR                                                CGCCTCCCGTGCTGGACTCC
      GVTATISGLKP                                                GACGGCTCCTTCTTCCTCTA
      GVDYTITVYAV                                                CAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACA
      TVTTTKVIHYK                                                AGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGG
      PISINYRTEI                                                 AACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGT
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                GATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACA
      270)                                                       ACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGC
                                                                 CTCTCCCTGTCTCCCGAGCT
                                                                 GCAGCTGGAGGAAAGCGCCG
                                                                 CTGAGGCTCAGGAAGGAGAA
                                                                 CTGGAAGGCGTGAGCGACGT
                                                                 GCCACGGGATCTAGAAGTGG
                                                                 TGGCTGCTACCCCCACAAGC
                                                                 TTGCTGATCTCCTGGACACT
                                                                 GCCTCACGCTGGCCGGGCTC
                                                                 ATTACTATAGAATTACCTAC
                                                                 GGGGAGACAGGCGGGAACTC
                                                                 TCCCGTGCAGGAATTCACCG
                                                                 TGCCTGGAAGGGGCGTGACT
                                                                 GCCACCATCAGTGGGCTGAA
                                                                 GCCAGGAGTGGACTACACAA
                                                                 TTACCGTGTACGCTGTGACT
                                                                 GTGACCACAACTAAAGTGAT
                                                                 CCACTACAAACCCATCTCTA
                                                                 TTAATTATCGGACCGAAATT
                                                                 (SEQ ID NO:   302)
PRD-  DKTHTCPPCPA DKTHTCPPCPAP     ELQLEESAA      GVSDVPRDLEVVA  GACAAAACTCACACATGCCC
1472  PELLGGPSVFL ELLGGPSVFLFP     EAQEGELE       ATPTSLLISWDAP  ACCGTGCCCAGCACCTGAAC
      FPPKPKDTLMI PKPKDTLMISRT      (SEQ ID       AGLARYYRITYGE  TCCTGGGGGGACCGTCAGTC
      SRTPEVTCVVV PEVTCVVVDVSH     NO: 187)       TGGNSPVQEFTVV  TTCCTCTTCCCCCCAAAACC
      DVSHEDPEVKF EDPEVKFNWYVD                    GRGNTATISGLKP  CAAGGACACCCTCATGATCT
      NWYVDGVEVHN GVEVHNAKTKPR                    GVDYTITVYAVTI  CCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACA
      AKTKPREEQYN EEQYNSTYRVVS                    FRDGPVTWDPISI  TGCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGAG
      STYRVVSVLTV VLTVLHQDWLNG                    NYRTEI    (SEQ CCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCA
      LHQDWLNGKEY KEYKCKVSNKAL                    ID NO: 278)    AGTTCAACTGGTACGTGGAC
      KCKVSNKALPA PAPIEKTISKAK                                   GGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGC
      PIEKTISKAKG GQPREPQVYTLP                                   CAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGG
      QPREPQVYTLP PSRDELTKNQVS                                   AGCAGTACAACAGCACGTAC
      PSRDELTKNQV LTCLVKGFYPSD                                   CGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCAC
      SLTCLVKGFYP IAVEWESNGQPE                                   CGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGC
      SDIAVEWESNG NNYKTTPPVLDS                                   TGAATGGCAAGGAGTACAAG
      QPENNYKTTPP DGSFFLYSKLTV                                   TGCAAGGTCTCCAACAAAGC
      VLDSDGSFFLY DKSRWQQGNVFS                                   CCTCCCAGCCCCCATCGAGA
      SKLTVDKSRWQ CSVMHEALHNHY                                   AAACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAA
      QGNVFSCSVMH TQKSLSLSP                                      GGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACA
      EALHNHYTQKS (SEQ ID NO:                                    GGTGTACACCCTGCCCCCAT
      LSLSPELQLEE 276)                                           CCCGGGATGAGCTGACCAAG
      SAAEAQEGELE                                                AACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTG
      GVSDVPRDLEV                                                CCTGGTCAAAGGCTTCTATC
      VAATPTSLLIS                                                CCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAG
      WDAPAGLARYY                                                TGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCC
      RITYGETGGNS                                                GGAGAACAACTACAAGACCA
      PVQEFTVVGRG                                                CGCCTCCCGTGCTGGACTCC
      NTATISGLKPG                                                GACGGCTCCTTCTTCCTCTA
      VDYTITVYAVT                                                CAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACA
      IFRDGPVTWDP                                                AGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGG
      ISINYRTEI                                                  AACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGT
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                GATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACA
                                         88

                          Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                            Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid   N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal    Nucleic Acid Sequence
        Sequence       domain                          domain
      271)                                                       ACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGC
                                                                 CTCTCCCTGTCTCCCGAGCT
                                                                 GCAGCTGGAGGAAAGCGCCG
                                                                 CTGAGGCTCAGGAAGGAGAA
                                                                 CTGGAAGGCGTGAGCGACGT
                                                                 GCCACGGGATCTAGAAGTGG
                                                                 TGGCTGCTACCCCCACAAGC
                                                                 TTGCTGATCAGCTGGGACGC
                                                                 TCCGGCTGGTCTGGCTCGAT
                                                                 ATTACCGCATCACTTACGGC
                                                                 GAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCC
                                                                 TGTCCAGGAGTTCACTGTGG
                                                                 TCGGTCGTGGTAACACAGCT
                                                                 ACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACC
                                                                 TGGCGTTGATTATACCATCA
                                                                 CTGTGTATGCTGTCACTATC
                                                                 TTCCGTGACGGTCCCGTCAC
                                                                 CTGGGACCCAATTTCCATTA
                                                                 ATTACCGGACCGAAATT
                                                                 (SEQ ID NO: 303)
PRD-  DKTHTCPPCPA DKTHTCPPCPAP     ELQLEESAA      GVSDVPRDLEVVA  GACAAAACTCACACATGCCC
1473  PELLGGPSVFL ELLGGPSVFLFP     EAQEGELE       ATPTSLLISWDAP  ACCGTGCCCAGCACCTGAAC
      FPPKPKDTLMI PKPKDTLMISRT      (SEQ ID       KGLARYYRITYGE  TCCTGGGGGGACCGTCAGTC
      SRTPEVTCVVV PEVTCVVVDVSH     NO: 187)       TGGNSPVQEFTVV  TTCCTCTTCCCCCCAAAACC
      DVSHEDPEVKF EDPEVKFNWYVD                    GRGNTATISGLKP  CAAGGACACCCTCATGATCT
      NWYVDGVEVHN GVEVHNAKTKPR                    GVDYTITVYAVTI  CCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACA
      AKTKPREEQYN EEQYNSTYRVVS                    FRDGPVTWDPISI  TGCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGAG
      STYRVVSVLTV VLTVLHQDWLNG                    NYRTEI    (SEQ CCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCA
      LHQDWLNGKEY KEYKCKVSNKAL                    ID NO: 279)    AGTTCAACTGGTACGTGGAC
      KCKVSNKALPA PAPIEKTISKAK                                   GGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGC
      PIEKTISKAKG GQPREPQVYTLP                                   CAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGG
      QPREPQVYTLP PSRDELTKNQVS                                   AGCAGTACAACAGCACGTAC
      PSRDELTKNQV LTCLVKGFYPSD                                   CGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCAC
      SLTCLVKGFYP IAVEWESNGQPE                                   CGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGC
      SDIAVEWESNG NNYKTTPPVLDS                                   TGAATGGCAAGGAGTACAAG
      QPENNYKTTPP DGSFFLYSKLTV                                   TGCAAGGTCTCCAACAAAGC
      VLDSDGSFFLY DKSRWQQGNVFS                                   CCTCCCAGCCCCCATCGAGA
      SKLTVDKSRWQ CSVMHEALHNHY                                   AAACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAA
      QGNVFSCSVMH TQKSLSLSP                                      GGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACA
      EALHNHYTQKS (SEQ ID NO:                                    GGTGTACACCCTGCCCCCAT
      LSLSPELQLEE 276)                                           CCCGGGATGAGCTGACCAAG
      SAAEAQEGELE                                                AACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTG
      GVSDVPRDLEV                                                CCTGGTCAAAGGCTTCTATC
      VAATPTSLLIS                                                CCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAG
      WDAPKGLARYY                                                TGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCC
      RITYGETGGNS                                                GGAGAACAACTACAAGACCA
      PVQEFTVVGRG                                                CGCCTCCCGTGCTGGACTCC
      NTATISGLKPG                                                GACGGCTCCTTCTTCCTCTA
      VDYTITVYAVT                                                CAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACA
      IFRDGPVTWDP                                                AGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGG
      ISINYRTEI                                                  AACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGT
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                GATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACA
      272)                                                       ACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGC
                                                                 CTCTCCCTGTCTCCCGAGCT
                                                                 GCAGCTGGAGGAAAGCGCCG
                                                                 CTGAGGCTCAGGAAGGAGAA
                                                                 CTGGAAGGCGTGAGCGACGT
                                                                 GCCACGGGATCTAGAAGTGG
                                                                 TGGCTGCTACCCCCACAAGC
                                                                 TTGCTGATCAGCTGGGACGC
                                                                 TCCGAAGGGTCTGGCTCGAT
                                                                 ATTACCGCATCACTTACGGC
                                         89

                          Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                            Sequence
Clone  Amino Acid   N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal     Nucleic Acid Sequence
        Sequence       domain                          domain
                                                                  GAAACAGGAGGCAATAGCCC
                                                                  TGTCCAGGAGTTCACTGTGG
                                                                  TCGGTCGTGGTAACACAGCT
                                                                  ACCATCAGCGGCCTTAAACC
                                                                  TGGCGTTGATTATACCATCA
                                                                  CTGTGTATGCTGTCACTATC
                                                                  TTCCGTGACGGTCCCGTCAC
                                                                  CTGGGACCCAATTTCCATTA
                                                                  ATTACCGGACCGAAATT
                                                                  (SEQ ID NO: 304)
PRD-  DKTHTCPPCPA DKTHTCPPCPAP     ELQLEESAA      GVSDVPRDLEVVA   GACAAAACTCACACATGCCC
1474  PELLGGPSVFL ELLGGPSVFLFP     EAQEGELE       ATPTSLLISWSLP   ACCGTGCCCAGCACCTGAAC
      FPPKPKDTLMI PKPKDTLMISRT      (SEQ ID       HQGKANYYRITYG   TCCTGGGGGGACCGTCAGTC
      SRTPEVTCVVV PEVTCVVVDVSH     NO: 187)       ETGGNSPVQEFTV   TTCCTCTTCCCCCCAAAACC
      DVSHEDPEVKF EDPEVKFNWYVD                    PGRGVTATISGLK   CAAGGACACCCTCATGATCT
      NWYVDGVEVHN GVEVHNAKTKPR                    PGVDYTITVYAVT   CCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACA
      AKTKPREEQYN EEQYNSTYRVVS                    VTDTGYLKYKPIS   TGCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGAG
      STYRVVSVLTV VLTVLHQDWLNG                    INYRTEI    (SEQ CCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCA
      LHQDWLNGKEY KEYKCKVSNKAL                    ID NO: 281)     AGTTCAACTGGTACGTGGAC
      KCKVSNKALPA PAPIEKTISKAK                                    GGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGC
      PIEKTISKAKG GQPREPQVYTLP                                    CAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGG
      QPREPQVYTLP PSRDELTKNQVS                                    AGCAGTACAACAGCACGTAC
      PSRDELTKNQV LTCLVKGFYPSD                                    CGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCAC
      SLTCLVKGFYP IAVEWESNGQPE                                    CGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGC
      SDIAVEWESNG NNYKTTPPVLDS                                    TGAATGGCAAGGAGTACAAG
      QPENNYKTTPP DGSFFLYSKLTV                                    TGCAAGGTCTCCAACAAAGC
      VLDSDGSFFLY DKSRWQQGNVFS                                    CCTCCCAGCCCCCATCGAGA
      SKLTVDKSRWQ CSVMHEALHNHY                                    AAACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAA
      QGNVFSCSVMH TQKSLSLSP                                       GGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACA
      EALHNHYTQKS (SEQ ID NO:                                     GGTGTACACCCTGCCCCCAT
      LSLSPELQLEE 276)                                            CCCGGGATGAGCTGACCAAG
      SAAEAQEGELE                                                 AACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTG
      GVSDVPRDLEV                                                 CCTGGTCAAAGGCTTCTATC
      VAATPTSLLIS                                                 CCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAG
      WSLPHQGKANY                                                 TGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCC
      YRITYGETGGN                                                 GGAGAACAACTACAAGACCA
      SPVQEFTVPGR                                                 CGCCTCCCGTGCTGGACTCC
      GVTATISGLKP                                                 GACGGCTCCTTCTTCCTCTA
      GVDYTITVYAV                                                 CAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACA
      TVTDTGYLKYK                                                 AGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGG
      PISINYRTEI                                                  AACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGT
      (SEQ ID NO:                                                 GATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACA
      273)                                                        ACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGC
                                                                  CTCTCCCTGTCTCCCGAGCT
                                                                  GCAGCTGGAGGAAAGCGCCG
                                                                  CTGAGGCTCAGGAAGGAGAA
                                                                  CTGGAAGGCGTGAGCGACGT
                                                                  GCCACGGGATCTAGAAGTGG
                                                                  TGGCTGCTACCCCCACAAGC
                                                                  TTGCTGATCAGCTGGTCTCT
                                                                  GCCGCACCAAGGTAAAGCCA
                                                                  ATTATTACCGCATCACTTAC
                                                                  GGCGAAACAGGAGGCAATAG
                                                                  CCCTGTCCAGGAGTTCACTG
                                                                  TGCCTGGTCGTGGTGTTACA
                                                                  GCTACCATCAGCGGCCTTAA
                                                                  ACCTGGCGTTGATTATACCA
                                                                  TCACTGTGTATGCTGTCACT
                                                                  GTTACTGATACAGGGTACCT
                                                                  CAAGTACAAACCAATTTCCA
                                                                  TTAATTACCGGACCGAAATT
                                                                  (SEQ ID NO: 305)
                                         90

                                    Fc-fused Anti-Myostatin Adnectins
                                                      Sequence
Clone      Amino Acid         N-terminal        Linker         C-terminal      Nucleic Acid Sequence
             Sequence          domain                            domain
The SEQ ID NOs of exemplary leader (N-terminal extension) and C-terminal tail sequences
of the invention are presented in Table 7.
Table 7
                                  Summary of Exemplary Sequences
  SEQ          Description            Name                            Sequence
 ID NO
  306       Exemplary leader         AdNT1        MGVSDVPRDL
  307       Exemplary leader         AdNT2        GVSDVPRDL
  308       Exemplary leader         AdNT3        VSDVPRDL
  309       Exemplary leader         AdNT4        SDVPRDL
  310       Exemplary leader         AdNT5        DVPRDL
  311       Exemplary leader         AdNT6        VPRDL
  312       Exemplary leader         AdNT7        PRDL
   ---      Exemplary leader         AdNT8        RDL
   ---      Exemplary leader         AdNT9        DL
  211        Exemplary tail          AdCT1        EIDKPSQ
   ---       Exemplary tail          AdCT2        El
  313        Exemplary tail          AdCT3        EIEPKSS
  314        Exemplary tail          AdCT4        EIDKPC
  315        Exemplary tail          AdCT5        EIDKP
  316        Exemplary tail          AdCT6        EIDK
  317        Exemplary tail          AdCT7        EIDKPS
  318        Exemplary tail          AdCT8        EIEKPSQ
  319        Exemplary tail          AdCT9        EIDKPSQLE
  320        Exemplary tail          AdCT10       EIEDEDEDEDED
  321        Exemplary tail          AdCT11       EGSGS
  322        Exemplary tail          AdCT12       EIDKPCQ
   189       Exemplary tail          AdCT13       GSGC
  323        Exemplary tail          AdCT14       EGSGC
  324        Exemplary   tail        AdCT15       EIDKPCQLE
  325        Exemplary   tail        AdCT16       EIDKPSQHHHHHH
  326        Exemplary   tail        AdCT17       GSGCHHHHHH
  327        Exemplary   tail        AdCT18       EGSGCHHHHHH
  328             Tag                   T1        HHHHHH
IV.     Nucleic Acid-Protein Fusion Technology
In one aspect, the invention provides an Adnectin comprising fibronectin type III domains
that binds myostatin. One way to rapidly make and test Fn3 domains with specific binding
properties is the nucleic acid-protein fusion technology of Adnexus, a Bristol-Myers Squibb
R&D Company. This disclosure utilizes the in vitro expression and tagging technology,
                                                   91

termed 'PROfusion' which exploits nucleic acid-protein fusions (RNA- and DNA-protein
fusions) to identify novel polypeptides and amino acid motifs that are important for binding
to proteins. Nucleic acid-protein fusion technology is a technology that covalently couples a
protein to its encoding genetic information. For a detailed description of the RNA-protein
fusion technology and fibronectin-based scaffold protein library screening methods see
Szostak et al., U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,258,558, 6,261,804, 6,214,553, 6,281,344, 6,207,446,
6,518,018 and 6,818,418; Roberts et al., Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci., 1997;94:12297-12302; and
Kurz et al., Molecules, 2000;5:1259-64, all of which are herein incorporated by reference.
V.       Vectors and Polynucleotides
Nucleic acids encoding any of the various proteins or polypeptides disclosed herein may be
synthesized chemically. Codon usage may be selected so as to improve expression in a cell.
Such codon usage will depend on the cell type selected. Specialized codon usage patterns
have been developed for E. coli and other bacteria, as well as mammalian cells, plant cells,
yeast cells and insect cells. See for example: Mayfield et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA,
100(2):438-442 (Jan. 21, 2003); Sinclair et al., ProteinExpr. Purif, 26(I):96-105 (October
2002); Connell, N.D., Curr. Opin. Biotechnol., 12(5):446-449 (October 2001); Makrides et
al., Microbiol.Rev., 60(3):512-538 (September 1996); and Sharp et al., Yeast, 7(7):657-678
(October 1991).
General techniques for nucleic acid manipulation are described in, for example, Sambrook et
al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 2nd Edition, Vols. 1-3, Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory Press (1989), or Ausubel, F. et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, Green
Publishing and Wiley-Interscience, New York (1987) and periodic updates, herein
incorporated by reference. Generally, the DNA encoding the polypeptide is operably linked
to suitable transcriptional or translational regulatory elements derived from mammalian, viral,
or insect genes. Such regulatory elements include a transcriptional promoter, an optional
operator sequence to control transcription, a sequence encoding suitable mRNA ribosomal
binding site, and sequences that control the termination of transcription and translation. The
ability to replicate in a host, usually conferred by an origin of replication, and a selection
gene to facilitate recognition of transformants is additionally incorporated.
The proteins described herein may be produced recombinantly not only directly, but also as a
fusion polypeptide with a heterologous polypeptide, which is preferably a signal sequence or
other polypeptide having a specific cleavage site at the N-terminus of the mature protein or
                                                 92

polypeptide. The heterologous signal sequence selected preferably is one that is recognized
and processed (i.e., cleaved by a signal peptidase) by the host cell. An exemplary N-terminal
leader sequence for production of polypeptides in a mammalian system is:
METDTLLLWVLLLWVPGSTG (SEQ ID NO: 177), which is removed by the host cell
following expression.
For prokaryotic host cells that do not recognize and process a native signal sequence, the
signal sequence is substituted by a prokaryotic signal sequence selected, for example, from
the group of the alkaline phosphatase, penicillinase, 1 pp, or heat-stable enterotoxin 11
leaders.
For yeast secretion the native signal sequence may be substituted by, e.g., a yeast invertase
leader, a factor leader (including Saccharomyces and Kluyveromyces alpha-factor leaders), or
acid phosphatase leader, the C. albicans glucoamylase leader, or the signal sequence
described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,631,144. In mammalian cell expression, mammalian signal
sequences as well as viral secretory leaders, for example, the herpes simplex gD signal, are
available. The DNA for such precursor regions may be ligated in reading frame to DNA
encoding the protein.
Both expression and cloning vectors contain a nucleic acid sequence that enables the vector
to replicate in one or more selected host cells. Generally, in cloning vectors this sequence is
one that enables the vector to replicate independently of the host chromosomal DNA, and
includes origins of replication or autonomously replicating sequences. Such sequences are
well known for a variety of bacteria, yeast, and viruses. The origin of replication from the
plasmid pBR322 is suitable for most Gram-negative bacteria, the 2 micron plasmid origin is
suitable for yeast, and various viral origins (SV40, polyoma, adenovirus, VSV or BPV) are
useful for cloning vectors in mammalian cells. Generally, the origin of replication component
is not needed for mammalian expression vectors (the SV40 origin may typically be used only
because it contains the early promoter).
Expression and cloning vectors may contain a selection gene, also termed a selectable
marker. Typical selection genes encode proteins that (a) confer resistance to antibiotics or
other toxins, e.g., ampicillin, neomycin, methotrexate, or tracycline, (b) complement
auxotrophic deficiencies, or (c) supply critical nutrients not available from complex media,
e.g., the gene encoding D-alanine racemase for Bacilli.
                                                 93

Expression and cloning vectors usually contain a promoter that is recognized by the host
organism and is operably linked to the nucleic acid encoding the protein of the invention,
e.g., a fibronectin-based scaffold protein. Promoters suitable for use with prokaryotic hosts
include the phoA promoter, beta-lactamase and lactose promoter systems, alkaline
phosphatase, a tryptophan (trp) promoter system, and hybrid promoters such as the tan
promoter. However, other known bacterial promoters are suitable. Promoters for use in
bacterial systems also will contain a Shine-Dalgarno (S.D.) sequence operably linked to the
DNA encoding the protein of the invention. Promoter sequences are known for eukaryotes.
Virtually all eukaryotic genes have an AT-rich region located approximately 25 to 30 bases
upstream from the site where transcription is initiated. Another sequence found 70 to 80
bases upstream from the start of transcription of many genes is a CNCAAT region where N
may be any nucleotide. At the 3' end of most eukaryotic genes is an AATAAA sequence that
may be the signal for addition of the poly A tail to the 3' end of the coding sequence. All of
these sequences are suitably inserted into eukaryotic expression vectors.
Examples of suitable promoting sequences for use with yeast hosts include the promoters for
3-phosphoglycerate kinase or other glycolytic enzymes, such as enolase, glyceraldehyde-3
phosphate dehydrogenase, hexokinase, pyruvate decarboxylase, phosphofructokinase,
glucose-6-phosphate isomerase, 3-phosphoglycerate mutase, pyruvate kinase, triosephosphate
isomerase, phosphoglucose isomerase, and glucokinase.
Transcription from vectors in mammalian host cells can be controlled, for example, by
promoters obtained from the genomes of viruses such as polyoma virus, fowlpox virus,
adenovirus (such as Adenovirus 2), bovine papilloma virus, avian sarcoma virus,
cytomegalovirus, a retrovirus, hepatitis-B virus and most preferably Simian Virus 40 (SV40),
from heterologous mammalian promoters, e.g., the actin promoter or an immunoglobulin
promoter, from heat-shock promoters, provided such promoters are compatible with the host
cell systems.
Transcription of a DNA encoding protein of the invention by higher eukaryotes is often
increased by inserting an enhancer sequence into the vector. Many enhancer sequences are
now known from mammalian genes (globin, elastase, albumin, a-fetoprotein, and insulin).
Typically, however, one will use an enhancer from a eukaiyotic cell virus. Examples include
the SV40 enhancer on the late side of the replication origin (bp 100-270), the
cytomegalovirus early promoter enhancer, the polyoma enhancer on the late side of the
replication origin, and adenovirus enhancers. See also Yaniv, Nature, 297:17-18 (1982) on
                                               94

enhancing elements for activation of eukaryotic promoters. The enhancer may be spliced into
the vector at a position 5' or 3' to the peptide-encoding sequence, but is preferably located at a
site 5' from the promoter.
Expression vectors used in eukaryotic host cells (e.g., yeast, fungi, insect, plant, animal,
human, or nucleated cells from other multicellular organisms) will also contain sequences
necessary for the termination of transcription and for stabilizing the mRNA. Such sequences
are commonly available from the 5' and, occasionally 3', untranslated regions of eukaryotic or
viral DNAs or cDNAs. These regions contain nucleotide segments transcribed as
polyadenylated fragments in the untranslated portion of mRNA encoding the protein of the
invention. One useful transcription termination component is the bovine growth hormone
polyadenylation region. See WO 94/11026 and the expression vector disclosed therein.
The recombinant DNA can also include any type of protein tag sequence that may be useful
for purifying the protein. Examples of protein tags include, but are not limited to, a histidine
tag, a FLAG tag, a myc tag, an HA tag, or a GST tag. Appropriate cloning and expression
vectors for use with bacterial, fungal, yeast, and mammalian cellular hosts can be found in
Cloning Vectors: A Laboratory Manual, (Elsevier, New York (1985)), the relevant disclosure
of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
The expression construct is introduced into the host cell using a method appropriate to the
host cell, as will be apparent to one of skill in the art. A variety of methods for introducing
nucleic acids into host cells are known in the art, including, but not limited to,
electroporation; transfection employing calcium chloride, rubidium chloride, calcium
phosphate, DEAE-dextran, or other substances; microprojectile bombardment; lipofection;
and infection (where the vector is an infectious agent).
Suitable host cells include prokaryotes, yeast, mammalian cells, or bacterial cells. Suitable
bacteria include gram negative or gram positive organisms, for example, E. coli or Bacillus
spp. Yeast, preferably from the Saccharomyces species, such as S. cerevisiae,may also be
used for production of polypeptides. Various mammalian or insect cell culture systems can
also be employed to express recombinant proteins. Baculovirus systems for production of
heterologous proteins in insect cells are reviewed by Luckow et al. (Bio/Technology, 6:47
(1988)). Examples of suitable mammalian host cell lines include endothelial cells, COS-7
monkey kidney cells, CV-1, L cells, C127, 3T3, Chinese hamster ovary (CHO), human
embryonic kidney ceils, HeLa, 293, 293T, and BHK cell lines. Purified polypeptides are
                                                  95

prepared by culturing suitable host/vector systems to express the recombinant proteins. For
many applications, the small size of many of the polypeptides disclosed herein would make
expression in E. coli as the preferred method for expression. The protein is then purified from
culture media or cell extracts.
VI.     Protein Production
The present invention is also directed to cell lines that express an anti-myostatin Adnectin or
fusion polypeptide thereof. Creation and isolation of cell lines producing an anti-myostatin
Adnectin can be accomplished using standard techniques known in the art, such as those
described herein.
Host cells are transformed with the herein-described expression or cloning vectors for protein
production and cultured in conventional nutrient media modified as appropriate for inducing
promoters, selecting transformants, or amplifying the genes encoding the desired sequences.
In the examples shown here, the host cells used for high-throughput protein production
(HTPP) and mid-scale production were those from the HMS 174-bacterial strain.
Adnectins of the present invention can also be obtained in aglycosylated form by producing
the Adnectins in, e.g., prokaryotic cells (e.g., E. coli). Notably, aglycosylated forms of the
Adnectins of the invention exhibit the same affinity, potency, and mechanism of action as
glycosylated Adnectins when tested in vitro.
The host cells used to produce the proteins of this invention may be cultured in a variety of
media. Commercially available media such as Ham's F 10 (Sigma), Minimal Essential
Medium ((MEM), (Sigma), RPMI-1640 (Sigma), and Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium
((DMEM), Sigma)) are suitable for culturing the host cells. In addition, many of the media
described in Ham et al., Meth. Enzymol., 58:44 (1979), Barites et al., Anal. Biochem.,
102:255 (1980), U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,767,704, 4,657,866, 4,927,762, 4,560,655, 5,122,469,
6,048,728, 5,672,502, or U.S. Pat. No. RE 30,985 may be used as culture media for the host
cells. Any of these media may be supplemented as necessary with hormones and/or other
growth factors (such as insulin, transferrin, or epidermal growth factor), salts (such as sodium
chloride, calcium, magnesium, and phosphate), buffers (such as HEPES), nucleotides (such
as adenosine and thymidine), antibiotics (such as Gentamycin drug), trace elements (defined
as inorganic compounds usually present at final concentrations in the micromolar range), and
glucose or an equivalent energy source. Any other necessary supplements may also be
included at appropriate concentrations that would be known to those skilled in the art. The
                                                 96

culture conditions, such as temperature, pH, and the like, are those previously used with the
host cell selected for expression, and will be apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan.
Proteins disclosed herein can also be produced using cell-translation systems. For such
purposes the nucleic acids encoding the polypeptide must be modified to allow in vitro
transcription to produce mRNA and to allow cell-free translation of the mRNA in the
particular cell-free system being utilized (eukaryotic such as a mammalian or yeast cell-free
translation system or prokaryotic such as a bacterial cell-free translation system.
Proteins of the invention can also be produced by chemical synthesis (e.g., by the methods
described in Solid Phase Peptide Synthesis, 2nd Edition, The Pierce Chemical Co., Rockford,
111. (1984)). Modifications to the protein can also be produced by chemical synthesis.
The proteins of the present invention can be purified by isolation/purification methods for
proteins generally known in the field of protein chemistry. Non-limiting examples include
extraction, recrystallization, salting out (e.g., with ammonium sulfate or sodium sulfate),
centrifugation, dialysis, ultrafiltration, adsorption chromatography, ion exchange
chromatography, hydrophobic chromatography, normal phase chromatography, reversed
phase chromatography, get filtration, gel permeation chromatography, affinity
chromatography, electrophoresis, countercurrent distribution or any combinations of these.
After purification, polypeptides may be exchanged into different buffers and/or concentrated
by any of a variety of methods known to the art, including, but not limited to, filtration and
dialysis.
The purified polypeptide is preferably at least 85% pure, or preferably at least 95% pure, and
most preferably at least 98% pure. Regardless of the exact numerical value of the purity, the
polypeptide is sufficiently pure for use as a pharmaceutical product.
VII.     Biophysical and Biochemical Characterization
Binding of an anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention to a target molecule (e.g., myostatin)
may be assessed in terms of equilibrium constants (e.g., dissociation, KD) and in terms of
kinetic constants (e.g., on-rate constant, kon and off-rate constant, koft). An Adnectin will
generally bind to a target molecule with a KD of less than 500 nM, 100 nM, 10 nM, I nM,
500 pM, 200 pM, or 100 pM, although higher KD values may be tolerated where the ko         0 r is
sufficiently low or the kon., is sufficiently high.
In vitro Assays for Binding Affinity
                                                   97

Anti-myostatin Adnectins that bind to and antagonize myostatin can be identified using
various in vitro assays. Preferably, the assays are high-throughput assays that allow for
screening multiple candidate Adnectins simultaneously. In some embodiments, BMP-1 1,
which shares 90% amino acid identity with myostatin, can be used as a surrogate for
myostatin in in vitro assays when the assay is performed under saturating conditions.
Notably, anti-myostatin Adnectins fused to Fc domains can bind both myostatin and BMP
11, whereas monoAdnectins bind preferentially to myostatin. Without being bound by
theory, this may reflect the increased avidity of bivalent Fc-fused Adnectins compared to
monovalent Adnectins. Similar enhanced binding to BMP1 1 is observed with bivalent
PEGylated Adnectins, such as ATI-1341, which comprise Adnectins fused to two ends of a
20kDa PEG moiety.
Exemplary assays for determining the binding affinity of anti-myostatin Adnectins are
described in the Examples infra, and include, but are not limited to, solution phase methods
such as the kinetic exclusion assay (KinExA) (Blake et al., JBC 1996;271:27677-85; Drake et
al., Anal Biochem 2004;328:35-43), surface plasmon resonance (SPR) with the Biacore
system (Uppsala, Sweden) (Welford et al., Opt. Quant. Elect 1991;23:1; Morton and Myszka,
Methods in Enzymology 1998;295:268) and homogeneous time resolved fluorescence
(HTRF) assays (Newton et al., JBiomol Screen 2008;13:674-82; Patel et al., Assay Drug Dev
Technol 2008;6:55-68).
In some embodiments, biomolecular interactions can be monitored in real time with the
Biacore system, which uses SPR to detect changes in the resonance angle of light at the
surface of a thin gold film on a glass support due to changes in the refractive index of the
surface up to 300 nm away. Biacore analysis generates association rate constants,
dissociation rate constants, equilibrium dissociation constants, and affinity constants. Binding
affinity is obtained by assessing the association and dissociation rate constants using a
Biacore surface plasmon resonance system (Biacore, Inc.). A biosensor chip is activated for
covalent coupling of the target. The target is then diluted and injected over the chip to obtain
a signal in response units of immobilized material. Since the signal in resonance units (RU) is
proportional to the mass of immobilized material, this represents a range of immobilized
target densities on the matrix. Association and dissociation data are fit simultaneously in a
global analysis to solve the net rate expression for a 1:1 bimolecular interaction, yielding best
fit values for kori, koff and R  (maximal response at saturation). Equilibrium dissociation
constants for binding, KD's are calculated from SPR measurements as korr/kon.
                                                98

In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention exhibit a KD in the SPR
affinity assay described in Example 6 of 500 nM or less, 400 nM or less, 300 nM or less, 200
nM or less, 150 nM or less, 100 nM or less, 90 nM or less, 80 nM or less, 70 nM or less, 60
nM or less, 50 nM or less, 40 nM or less, 30 nM or less, 20 nM or less, 15 nM or less, 10 nM
or less, 5 nM or less, or I nM or less. Preferably, the KD is 15 nM or less. More preferably,
the KD is 2.0 nM or less.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention exhibit an IC50 in the
HTRF assay described in Example 4 of 5 nM or less, 4 nM or less, 3 nM or less, 2.5 nM or
less, 2 nM or less, 1.5 nM or less, 1 nM or less, 0.5 nM or less, 0.2 nM or less, or 0.1 nM or
less. Preferably, the IC50 is 1.5 nM or less. More preferably, the IC50 is 0.5 nM or less.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention exhibit KD in the kinetic
exclusion assay described in Example 7 of 2 nM or less, 1.5 nM or less, 1 nM or less, 900 pM
or less, 850 pM or less, 800 pM or less, 750 pM or less, 700 pM or less, 650 pM or less, 600
pM or less, 550 pM or less, 500 pM or less, 450 pM or less, 400 pM or less, 350 pM or less,
340 pM or less, 330 pM or less, 300 pM or less, 250 pM or less, 200 pM or less, 150 pM or
less, or 100 pM or less. Preferably, the KD is 850 pM or less.
It should be understood that the assays described herein above are exemplary, and that any
method known in the art for determining the binding affinity between proteins (e.g.,
fluorescence based-transfer (FRET), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and competitive
binding assays (e.g., radioimmunoassays)) can be used to assess the binding affinities of the
anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention.
In vitro Assays for Antagonist Activity
The ability of anti-myostatin Adnectins to antagonize myostatin activity can be readily
determined using various in vitro assays. Preferably, the assays are high-throughput assays
that allow for screening multiple candidate Adnectins simultaneously. In some embodiments,
the antagonist effects of anti-myostatin Adnectins on myostatin activity can be determined in
cell-based activin responsive element (ARE)-luciferase reporter assays, as described in
Example 3. In certain embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention decrease
myostatin-induced ARE-luciferase activity by at least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at
least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90% or more relative
to a control upon co-incubating myostatin with an anti-myostatin Adnectin prior to
stimulating cells with the mixture. An exemplary control reaction involves treating cells with
                                                99

myostatin alone or myostatin preincubated with an excess of a benchmark myostatin inhibitor
such as Human Activin RIIB Fc Chimera (R&D Systems) or ActRIIb-Fc as described in
Morrison et al. (ExperimentalNeurology 2009; 217:258-68). In other embodiments, the anti
myostatin Adnectins of the invention inhibit ARE-luciferase reporter activity with an IC50 of
500 nM or less, 400 nM or less, 300 nM or less, 200 nM or less, 100 nM or less, 50 nM or
less, 10 nM or less, 5 nM or less, 1 nM, 0.5 nM or less, 0.4 nM or less, 0.3 nM or less, 0.2
nM or less, or 0.10 nM or less, as described in Example 3.
In other embodiments, the antagonistic effects of anti-myostatin Adnectins on myostatin
activity can be determined by measuring the extent of SMAD phosphorylation in myostatin
treated cells, as described in Example 5. In certain embodiments, the anti-myostatin
Adnectins of the invention decrease myostatin-induced SMAD phosphorylation by at least
10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least
80%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or at least 97% or more relative to a control upon co
incubating myostatin with an anti-myostatin Adnectin prior to stimulating the cells with the
mixture. An exemplary control reaction involves treating cells with myostatin alone or
myostatin preincubated with an excess of a benchmark myostatin inhibitor such as Human
Activin RIIB Fc Chimera (R&D Systems) or ActRIIb-Fc as described in Morrison et al.
(ExperimentalNeurology 2009;217:258-68). In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin
Adnectins of the invention inhibit SMAD phosphorylation with an IC50 of 1 nM or less, 0.8
nM or less, 0.6 nM or less, 0.4 nM or less, 0.3 nM or less, 0.2 nM or less, or 0.1 nM or less in
a 12-point or 4-point inhibition response, as described in Example 5. In other embodiments,
the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention at 10 nM inhibit SMAD phosphorylation by
myostatin by at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 91%,
at least 92%, at least 93%, at least 94%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, or at least
98% or more, as described in Example 5.
Additionally, several in vitro model systems are known which use cells, tissue culture and
histological methods for studying motor neuron disease. For example, a rat spinal cord
organotypic slice subjected to glutamate excitotoxicity is useful as a model system to test the
effectiveness of anti-myostatin Adnectins in preventing motor neuron degeneration. Corse et
al., Neurobiol. Dis. (1999) 6:335 346. For a discussion of in vitro systems for use in studying
ALS, see, e.g., Bar, P. R., Eur. J. Pharmacol. (2000) 405:285 295; Silani et al., J. Neurol.
(2000) 247 Suppl 1:128 36; Martin et al., Int. J. Mol. Med. (2000) 5:3 13.
                                                100

It should be understood that the assays described herein are exemplary, and that any method
known in the art that can serve as a readout for myostatin activity are suitable for use for
testing the myostatin antagonizing effects of the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention
(e.g., real-time RT-PCR of mRNAs of SMAD target genes (e.g., Smad 7; Ciarmela et al.,
Journalof ClinicalEndocrinology & Metabolism 2011;96;755-65) or mRNAs of ARE
containing genes).
In vivo models
Various art-recognized animal models exist that recapitulate the symptoms of diseases,
disorders, and conditions associated with muscle wasting associated, for example with
muscular, neuromuscular, neurological and metabolic disorders. These models can be used
to test the efficacy of the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention.
For example, non-limiting examples of such animal models include, e.g., the X-linked
muscular dystrophy mouse (mdx) model (US2011/0008375, Gehrig et al., Nature
2012;484:394-8), including 4 additional strains of mdx mouse-mdx2cv, mdx3cv, mdx4cv, or
mdx5cv mouse (Phelps et al., Human Molecular Genetics. 1996;5(8):1149-1153), the mdx
mouse with additional ablation of the dystrophin homologue utrophin (mdx/utr )
(Deconinck et al., Cell. 1997;90(4):717-727), the alpha-SG-null C57BL/6 mouse (Duclos et
al.i(1998) J. Cell Biol. 142, 1461-1471), and those recently reviewed in Nakamura et al., (J
Biomed Biotechnol. 2011; Article ID No: 184393), e.g., the mdx52 mouse, in which exon 52
of the murine DMD gene is deleted, the Golden Retriever muscular dystrophy (GRMD)
model, the Canine X-Linked Muscular Dystrophy (CXMDj) model, and the Hypertrophy
Feline Muscular Dystrophy (HFMD) model (e.g., Shelton et al., NeuromuscularDisorders.
2005; 15(2):127-13 8).
Animal models for the study of motoneuron disorders such as ALS are transgenic mice with
an ALS-linked mutant Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SODI) gene (mSODIG93A and/or
mSOD1G37R). These mice develop a dominantly inherited adult-onset paralytic disorder
with many of the clinical and pathological features of familial ALS. (e.g., Gurney et al.,
Science (1994) 264:1772 1775; Nagano et al., Life Sci (2002) 72:541 548). Other animal
models include two naturally occurring murine models for progressive motor neuronopathy
(pmn) and wobbler (Haegggeli and Kato, Neurosci. Lett. (2002) 335:39 43). For a review of
various animal models for use in studying motoneuron diseases such as ALS, see, e.g.,
                                               101

Jankowsky et al., Curr Neurol Neurosci. Rep. (2002) 2:457 464; Elliott, J. L., Neurobiol. Dis.
(1999) 6:310 20; and Borchelt et al., Brain Pathol. (1998) 8:735 757.
Animal models of other neurodegenerative or neuropathological diseases in addition to ALS
include a transgenic mouse model for evaluating spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA)
(Katsuno et al., Neuron (2002) 35:843 854), animal models for human paralytic poliomyelitis
(Ford et al., Microb. Pathog. (2002) 33:97 107), animal models of spinal muscular atrophy
(Schmid et al., J. Child Neurol. 22, 1004-1012, 2007), animal models for distal myopathy and
hereditary inclusion body myopathy (Malicdan et al., Acta Myol. 2007 December; 26(3):
171-175), the murine model of genetic demyelinating disease (Suzuki et al., Microsc. Res.
Tech. 1995;32:204-214), and those described by Meyer ZuHarste et al. (Curr. Opin. Neurol.
2006; 19:464-473).
Animal models for testing the efficacy of the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention
against muscle volume loss due to atrophy and/or inactivity include, but are not limited to,
mouse models of unilateral immobilization (Madaro et al., Basic Applied Myology
2008;18:149-153), Achilles tendon laceration (tenotomy) (Bialek et al., Physiol Genomics
2011;43:1075-86), and those disclosed in Powers et al. (Am JPhysiolRegul Integr Comp
Physiol 2005;288:R337-44), such as, hindlimb suspension of animals, limb immobilization,
and controlled mechanical ventilation.
Relevant animal models for testing the efficacy of the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the
invention in the treatment of metabolic disorders include, but are not limited to, those
disclosed in Ramaro et al. (IndianJMed Res 2007;125:451-472) and Kennedy et al. (Disease
Models & Mechanisms 2010;3:156-166), both of which are herein incorporated by reference
in its entirety). Non-limiting examples of such animal models include Lepob/ob mice, Leprdb
mice, Kuo Kondo mice, KK/AY mice, New Zealand Obese (NZO) mice, NONcNZO10 mice,
Tsumara Suzuki Obese Diabetes (TSOD) and Tsumara Suzuki Non Obese (TSNO)mice, M16
mice, Zucker fatty rats, Zucker diabetic fatty rats, SHR/N- cp rat, JCR/LA -cp rats, Otsuka
Long Evans Tokushima Fatty rats, Obese rhesus monkeys, Cohen diabetic rats, Goto
Kakizaki rats, and non-obese mutant C57 BL/6 (Akita) mice. Type 2 diabetes can also be
induced by diet by, e.g., feeding high fat feed to non-obese, non-diabetic C57BL6 mice
(Surwit et al., Diabetes 1988;37:1163-7). Type 2 diabetes can also be chemically induced
with, e.g., goldthioglucose (Le Marchand Brustel et al., Am JPhysiol 1978;234:E348-58) or
streptozotocin, or induced surgically (e.g., partial pancreatomized diabetic animals) (McNeil
JH., Experimental models of diabetes. Florida, US: CRC Press LLc; 1999; Sasaki et al., In
                                                102

Vivo 2000;14:535-41). Many genetic animal models are also known to recapitulate the
symptoms and phenotypes of metabolic disorders, such as those reviewed in Kennedy et al.,
2010 (supra).
In some embodiments, the efficacy of the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention for
increasing muscle mass or volume can be tested by subcutaneous injection of mice, as
described in Example 9. Given that the inhibition of myostatin increases muscle mass, the
anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention are expected to increase body weight and muscle
mass, the extent to which can be used to determine the potency of the Adnectins.
In some embodiments, particularly when anti-myostatin Adnectins are immunogenic in mice
(e.g., due to the use of human fibronectin type III domain) and chronic treatments are desired,
the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention can be administered to SCID mice, which are
unable to mount cellular or humoral immune responses. In some embodiments, SCID mice
can be crossed with other genetic models, such as those described herein (e.g., diabetic mice),
to develop an immunocompromised mouse model amenable to chronic treatment with the
anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention.
VIII.    Therapeutic Applications
In one aspect, the present invention provides anti-myostatin Adnectins useful for the
treatment of myostatin-related disease or disorders, e.g., muscle wasting disorders, muscle
atrophy, metabolic disorders, and bone degenerative disorders. Accordingly, in certain
embodiments the invention provides methods for attenuating or inhibiting a myostatin-related
disease or disorder in a subject comprising administering an effective amount of myostatin
binding polypeptide, i.e., an anti-myostatin Adnectin, to a subject. In some embodiments, the
subject is a human. In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectins are pharmaceutically
acceptable to a mammal, in particular a human. A "pharmaceutically acceptable" polypeptide
refers to a polypeptide that is administered to an animal without significant adverse medical
consequences, such as essentially endotoxin free, or very low endotoxin levels.
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the present invention will be
administered to a subject in combination (concurrently or separately) with an agent known in
the art to be useful for the particular disorder or disease being treated.
                                                 103

In some embodiments, the target patient population for anti-myostatin Adnectin therapy is
one that is not amenable to standard therapy for the disease, disorder, or condition being
treated due to, e.g., age, pre-existing conditions, genetic makeup, and/or co-morbidities. The
anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention can serve as alternatives to existing therapies that
are associated with substantial side effects (e.g., reproductive performance) or safety
concerns.
Exemplary diseases, disorders, and conditions for which the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the
present invention will be useful are described in more detail below.
Muscular, Neurological, and Metabolic Diseases and Disorders
The anti-myostatin Adnectins of the present invention can be used to treat muscular,
neurological and metabolic disorders associated with muscle wasting and/or muscle atrophy.
For example, myostatin overexpression in vivo induces signs and symptoms characteristic of
cachexia, and myostatin binding agents can partially resolve the muscle wasting effect of
myostatin (Zimmers et al., Science 2002;296:1486-8). Patients with AIDS also exhibit
increased serum levels of myostatin immunoreactive material compared to patients without
AIDS or to AIDS patients who do not exhibit weight loss (Gonzalez-Cadavid et al., PNAS
 1998;95:14938-43). It has also been observed that heart-specific elimination of myostatin
reduces skeletal muscle atrophy in mice with heart failure, and conversely, specifically
overexpressing myostatin in the heart is sufficient to induce muscle wasting (Breitbart et al.,
AJP-Heart;201 1;300:H1973-82). In contrast, myostatin knockout mice show increased
muscle mass, and an age-dependent decrease in fat accumulation compared to their wild type
counterparts (McPherron et al., J Clin. Invest. 2002;109:595-601).
Exemplary disorders that can be treated according to the methods of the invention include
myopathies and neuropathies, including, for example, motor neuron disease, neuromuscular
and neurological disorders.
For example, anti-myostatin Adnectins can be used to treat inherited myopathies and
neuromuscular disorders (e.g., muscular dystrophy (Gonzalez-Kadavid et al., PNAS,
1998;95:14938-43), motor neuron disorders, congenital myopathies, inflammatory
myopathies and metabolic myopathies), as well as acquired myopathies (e.g., drug induced
myopathy, toxin induced myopathy, infection induced myopathy, paraneoplastic myopathy
and other myopathies associated with critical illnesses).
                                                 104

Such disorders include, but are not limited to, Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, progressive
muscular dystrophy, Becker's type muscular dystrophy, Dejerine-Landouzy muscular
dystrophy, Erb's muscular dystrophy, Emery Dreifuss muscular dystrophy, limb girdle
muscular dystrophy, oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD), facioscapulohumeral
muscular dystrophy, congenital muscular dystrophy, infantile neuroaxonal muscular
dystrophy, myotonic dystrophy (Steinert's disease), distal muscular dystrophy, nemaline
myopathy, familial periodic paralysis, nondystrophic myotonia, periodic paralyses, spinal
muscular atrophy, spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS),
primary lateral sclerosis (PLS), progressive muscular atrophy (PMA), , distal myopathy,
myotubular/centronuclear myopathy, nemaline myopathy, mini core disease, central core
disease, desminopathy, inclusion body myositis, dermatomyositis, polymyositis,
mitochondrial myopathy, congenital myasthenic syndrome, myasthenia gravis, post-polio
muscle dysfunction, steroid myopathy, alcoholic myopathy, perioperative muscular atrophy
and ICU neuromyopathy.
Inherited and acquired neuropathies and radiculopathies which can be treated with anti
myostatin Adnectins include, but are not limited to, rigid spine syndrome, muscle-eye-brain
disease, heredity motor and sensory neuropathy, Carcot-Marie-Tooth disease, chronic
inflammatory neuropathy, progressive hypertrophic neuropathy, tomaculous neuropathy,
lupus, Guillain-Barre syndrome, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy,
multiple sclerosis, sarcoidosis, diabetic neuropathy, alcoholic neuropathy, disease related
neuropathies (e.g., HIV/AIDS, Lyme disease), toxin related neuropathies (e.g., heavy metal,
chemotherapy), compression neuropathies (e.g., tumors, entrapment neuropathy), and
neuropathies associated with injury or trauma (e.g., cauda equine syndrome, paraplegia,
quadriplegia).
In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention can be used to treat
muscular dystrophies (e.g., Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, Becker's type muscular
dystrophy), ALS, and sarcopenia.
Additional disorders associated with muscle wasting that can be treated with the anti
myostatin Adnectins of the invention include cachexia, wasting syndrome, sarcopenia,
congestive obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic fibrosis (pulmonary cachexia), cardiac
disease or failure (cardiac cachexia), cancer, wasting due to AIDS, wasting due to renal
failure, renal disease, claudication, cachexia associated with dialysis, uremia, rheumatoid
                                                105

arthritis, muscle injury, surgery, repair of damaged muscle, frailty, disuse atrophy,
osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, ligament growth and repair.
The methods of the invention can also be used to increase muscle volume in subjects who
suffer from muscle atrophy due to disuse. Disuse atrophy may result from numerous causes
including any disorder or state which leads to prolonged immobility or disuse, including, but
not limited to prolonged bedrest, being wheelchair bound, limb immobilization, unloading of
the diaphragm via mechanical ventilation, solid organ transplant, joint replacement, stroke,
CNS damage related weakness, spinal cord injury, recovery from severe burn, sedentary
chronic hemodialysis, post-trauma recovery, post-sepsis recovery and exposure to
microgravity (Powers et al., Am JPhysiolRegulIntegrComp Physiol 2005;288:R337-44).
In addition, age-related increases in fit to muscle ratios, and age-related muscular atrophy
appear to be related to myostatin. For example, the average serum myostatin-immunoreactive
protein increased with age in groups of young (19-35 yr old), middle-aged (36-75 yr old), and
elderly (76-92 yr old) men and women, while the average muscle mass and fat-free mass
declined with age in these groups (Yarasheski et al. J Nutr Aging 6(5):343-8 (2002)).
Accordingly, Subjects with muscle atrophy due to aging, and/or subjects who are frail due to,
for example, sarcopenia, would also benefit from treatment with the anti-myostatin Adnectins
of the invention.
Also contemplated are methods for increasing muscle mass in food animals by administering
an effective dosage of the anti-myostatin Adnectins to these animals. Since the mature C
terminal myostatin polypeptide is identical in all species, anti-myostatin Adnectins would be
expected to effectively increase muscle mass and reducing fat in any agriculturally important
species, for example, but not limited to, cattle, chicken, turkeys, and pigs.
The efficacy of the anti-myostatin Adnectin in the treatment of muscle wasting disorders or
muscle atrophy can be determined, for example, by one or more methods for measuring an
increase in muscle mass or volume, an increase in the number of muscle cells (hyperplasia),
an increase in muscle cell size (hypertrophy) and/or an increase in muscle strength. For
example, the muscle volume increasing effects of the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the present
invention are demonstrated in the Examples described infra. Methods for determining
"increased muscle mass" are well known in the art. For example, muscle content can be
measured before and after administration of an anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention
using standard techniques, such as underwater weighing (see, e.g., Bhasin et al. New Eng. J.
                                                106

Med. (1996) 335:1-7) and dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (see, e.g., Bhasin et al. Mol.
Endocrinol. (1998) 83:3155-3162). An increase in muscle size may be evidenced by weight
gain of at least about 5-10%, preferably at least about 10-20% or more.
Metabolic Disorders
The anti-myostatin Adnectins of the present invention, which reduce myostatin activity
and/or signaling, are useful for treating metabolic disorders, such as obesity, type 11 diabetes
mellitus, diabetes associated disorders, metabolic syndrome, and hyperglycemia.
Myostatin is involved in the pathogenesis of type Il diabetes mellitus. Myostatin is expressed
in adipose tissue and myostatin deficient mice exhibit reduced fat accumulation as they age.
Moreover, glucose load, fat accumulation, and total body weight are reduced in myostatin
lacking agouti lethal yellow and obese (Lepob/ob) mice (Yen et al., FASEB J 8:479, 1994;
McPherron et al., 2002). As disclosed in US2011/0008375, myostatin antagonists can
decrease the fat to muscle ratio in an aged mouse model, preserve skeletal muscle mass and
lean body mass, and attenuate kidney hypertrophy in STZ-induced diabetic mice.
As used herein, "obesity" is a condition in which excess body fat has accumulated to such an
extent that health may be negatively affected. It is commonly defined as a body mass index
(BMI) of 30 kg/m2 or higher which distinguishes it from being overweight as defined by a
BMI of 25 kg/m2 or higher (see, e.g., World Health Organization (2000) (PDF). Technical
report series 894: Obesity: Preventing and managing the global epidemic. Geneva: World
Health Organization). Excessive body weight is associated with various diseases, particularly
cardiovascular diseases, diabetes mellitus type 11, obstructive sleep apnea, certain types of
cancer, and osteoarthritis.
A subject with obesity may be identified, for example, by determining BMI (BMI is
calculated by dividing the subject's mass by the square of his or her height), waist
circumference and waist-hip ratio (the absolute waist circumference (>102 cm in men and
>88 cm in women) and the waist-hip ratio (the circumference of the waist divided by that of
the hips of >0.9 for men and >0.85 for women) (see, e.g., Yusuf S, et al., (2004). Lancet 364:
937-52), and/or body fat percentage (total body fat expressed as a percentage of total body
weight: men with more than 25% body fat and women with more than 33% body fat are
obese; body fat percentage can be estimated from a person's BMI by the following formula:
Bodyfat% = (1.2 * BMI) + (0.23 * age) - 5.4 - (10.8 * gender), where gender is 0 if female
and I if male). Body fat percentage measurement techniques include , for example, computed
                                               107

tomography (CT scan), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and dual energy X-ray
absorptiometry (DEXA).
The term "type II diabetes" refers to a chronic, life-long disease that results when the body's
insulin does not work effectively. A main component of type II diabetes is "insulin
resistance," wherein the insulin produced by the pancreas cannot connect with fat and muscle
cells to allow glucose inside to produce energy, causing hyperglycemia (high blood glucose).
To compensate, the pancreas produces more insulin, and cells, sensing this flood of insulin,
become even more resistant, resulting in a vicious cycle of high glucose levels and often high
insulin levels.
The phrase "disorders associated with diabetes" or "diabetes associated disorders" or
"diabetes related disorders," as used herein, refers to conditions and other diseases which are
commonly associated with or related to diabetes.     Example of disorders associated with
diabetes include, for example, hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinaemia, hyperlipidaemia, insulin
resistance, impaired glucose metabolism, obesity, diabetic retinopathy, macular degeneration,
cataracts, diabetic nephropathy, glomerulosclerosis, diabetic neuropathy, erectile dysfunction,
premenstrual syndrome, vascular restenosis, ulcerative colitis, coronary heart disease,
hypertension, angina pectoris, myocardial infarction, stroke, skin and connective tissue
disorders, foot ulcerations, metabolic acidosis, arthritis, and osteoporosis.
The efficacy of the anti-myostatin Adnectins in the treatment of metabolic disorders can be
determined, for example, by one or more methods of measuring an increase in insulin
sensitivity, an increase in glucose uptake by cells from the subject, a decrease in blood
glucose levels, and a decrease in body fat.
For example, in subjects having type II diabetes or who are at risk of developing diabetes
HbAlc levels can be monitored. The term "hemoglobin 1AC" or "HbAlc" as used herein
refers to the product of a non-enzymatic glycation of the hemoglobin B chain. The desired
target range of HbAlc levels for people with diabetes can be determined from American
Diabetes Association (ADA) guidelines, i.e., the Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes
(Diabetes Care 2012;35(Suppl 1):S511-563). Current HbAlc target levels are generally
<7.0% for people with diabetes, and people who do not have diabetes typically have HbAlc
values of less than 6%. Accordingly, the efficacy of the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the
present invention can be determined by an observed decrease in the HBAlc level in a subject.
                                               108

The methods of the invention further include administration of an anti-myostatin Adnectin
alone, or in combination with other agents that are known in the art for glycemic control (e.g.,
insulin, GLPI) or for treating art-recognized diabetes-related complications.
Other disorders
Myostatin knockout mice exhibit increased muscle mass, as well as increased mineral content
and density of the mouse humerus, and increased mineral content of both trabecular and
cortical bone at regions where muscles attach (Hamrick et al. Calcif Tissue Intl 2002;71:63
8). This suggests that increasing muscle mass may help improve bone strength and reduce
osteoporosis and other degenerative bone diseases.
Additional diseases or disorders for which the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the present
invention are useful include wound healing, anti-fibrotic disease, Lambert-Eaton Syndrome,
and Parkinson's Disease.
Combination therapies
The anti-myostatin Adnectins provided herein may be employed in combination with anti
diabetic agents, anti-hyperglycemic agents, anti-hyperinsulinemic agents, anti-retinopathic
agents, anti-neuropathic agents, anti-neurodegenerative agents, anti-nephropathic agents,
anti-atherosclerotic agents, anti-ischemic agents, anti-hypertensive agents, anti-obesity
agents, anti-dyslipidemic agents, anti-dyslipidemic agents, anti-hyperlipidemic agents, anti
hypertriglyceridemic agents, anti-hypercholesterolemic agents, anti-restenotic agents, anti
pancreatic agents, lipid lowering agents, anorectic agents, memory enhancing agents, anti
dementia agents, or cognition promoting agents, appetite suppressants, neuro- or musculo
restorative treatments, treatments for heart failure, treatments for peripheral arterial disease
and anti-inflammatory agents.
The antidiabetic agents used in combination with the anti-myostatin Adnectins include, but
are not limited to, insulin secretagogues or insulin sensitizers, GPR40 receptor modulators, or
other antidiabetic agents. These agents include, but are not limited to, dipeptidyl peptidase IV
(DP4) inhibitors (for example, sitagliptin, saxagliptin, alogliptin, vildagliptin and the like),
biguanides (for example, metformin, phenformin and the like), sulfonyl ureas (for example,
gliburide, glimepiride, glipizide and the like), glucosidase inhibitors (for example, acarbose,
miglitol, and the like), PPARy agonists such as thiazolidinediones (for example,
rosiglitazone, pioglitazone, and the like), PPAR u/7 dual agonists (for example, muraglitazar,
tesaglitazar, aleglitazar, and the like), glucokinase activators (as described in Fyfe et al.,
                                                 109

Drugs of the Future, 34(8):641-653 (2009) and incorporated herein by reference), GPRI19
receptor modulators (MBX-2952, PSN821, APD597 and the like), SGLT2 inhibitors
(dapagliflozin, canagliflozin, remagliflozin and the like), amylin analogs such as prailintide,
and/or insulin. Reviews of current and emerging therapies for the treatment of diabetes can be
found in: Mohler et al., Medicinal Research Reviews, 29(1):125-195 (2009), and Mizuno et
al., CurrentMedicinal Chemistry, 15:61-74 (2008).
The anti-myostatin Adnectins of the present invention may also be optionally employed in
combination with one or more hypophagic agents such as diethylpropion, phendimetrazine,
phentermine, orlistat, sibutramine, lorcaserin, pramlintide, topiramate, MCHRI receptor
antagonists, oxyntomodulin, naltrexone, Amylin peptide, NPY Y5 receptor modulators, NPY
Y2 receptor modulators, NPY Y4 receptor modulators, cetilistat, 5HT2c receptor modulators,
and the like. The anti-myostatin Adnectins of the present invention may also be employed in
combination with an agonist of the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1 R), such as
exenatide, liraglutide, GPR-1(1-36) amide, GLP-1(7-36) amide, GLP-1(7-37) (as disclosed in
U.S. Pat. No. 5,614,492 to Habener, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
reference), which may be administered via injection, intranasally, or by transdermal or buccal
devices. Reviews of current and emerging therapies for the treatment of obesity can be found
in: Melnikova et al., Nature Reviews Drug Discovery, 5:369-370 (2006); Jones, Nature
Reviews: Drug Discovery, 8:833-834 (2009); Obici, Endocrinology, 150(6):2512-2517
(2009); and Elangbam, Vet. Pathol., 46(1):10-24 (2009).
The anti-myostatin Adnectins of the present invention can also be administered with one or
more additional therapeutic agents, as appropriate for the particular disease or disorder being
treated. Non-limiting examples of additional agents include those that are useful for treating
metabolic disorders such as type II diabetes and sarcopenia and include, but are not limited
to, GLP-1, GLP-1-like, amylin, and FGF21; those that are useful for treating anti-fibrotic
disease, neuromuscular disease, motor neuron disease, and sarcopenia and include, but are
not limited to, ghrelin, SARM, Riluzole, testosterone, androgens, growth hormone, hormone
replacement therapy, COX-2 inhibitors, troponin activators, P2 agonists, CTLA4-Ig (e.g.,
abetacept, belatacept) and anti-TGFp antibodies; those that are useful for treating cachexia
and other wasting syndromes and include, but are not limited to, TGF3 receptor kinase
inhibitors, anti-IL-6, and ubiquitin-proteasome inhibitors; those that are useful to treat muscle
cramps associated with myotonia and PLS include, but are not limited to phytoin, quinine,
Baclofen and tizanidine; those that are useful for neuropathies include antidepressants (e.g.,
                                                110

tricyclics and selective serotonin-norepinephrine re-uptake inhibitors (SNRI's)),
anticonvulsants, cannbinoids, botulinum toxin Type A, NMDA antagonists (e.g., ketamine),
dietary supplements (e.g., alpha lipoic acid and benfotiamine); those that are useful for
treating chronic inflammatory neuropathies include, but are not limited to, corticosteroids,
intravenous immunoglobulin, and immunosuppressive drugs (e.g., cyclophosphamide,
ciclosporin, azathiprine, mycophenolate mofetil, anti-thymocyte globulin, rituximab); and
those that are useful for treating Guillain Barr6 syndrome, sarcopenia, fracture, and bone loss
and include, but are not limited to, Boniva (ibandronate) and PTH.
The anti-myostatin Adnectins of the present invention can be administered with one or more
additional agents used in symptomatic therapy. Non-limiting examples of such agents for
treating the symptoms of ALS include mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) pore
activators , fast skeletal troponin activators, macrophage regulators (e.g., NPOO1), lysosomal
storage disease-treating agents (e.g., NP003), and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAchR)
antagonists. A non-limiting example of an additional agent for use in treating the symptoms
of DMD/BMD is an agent that increases ATP levels.
The anti-myostatin Adnectins of the present invention can also be administered with one or
more additional agents used in disease modification therapy. Non-limiting examples of such
agents for treating ALS include free radical scavengers (e.g., edaravone (norphenazone), CV
3611), VEGF agonists (e.g., sNNO029), Nogo-A protein I (e.g., GSK122324), SODI
inhibitors (e.g., ISIS-SOD1Rx) , and PGE synthase 1 inhibitors (e.g., AAD-2004). Non
limiting examples of such agents for treating DMD/BMD include those that promote exon
skipping (e.g., antisense molecules such as drisapersen (PRO051/GSK2402968), PR0044,
Eteplirsen, AVI-4658, AVI-5038, Ataluren (PTC124)), gene therapy agents, anti
inflammatory agents (e.g., CRD007), and anti-fibrotic agents (e.g., HT-100).
As discussed above, agents that promote exon-skipping can be used in combination with the
anti-myostatin Adnectins of the present invention for treating Duchenne's muscular
dystrophy and Becker's type muscular dystrophy. Examples of specific exons that can be
targeted to restore functional dystrophin include exons 7, 8, 17, 43, 44, 45, 46, 50, 51, 52, 53,
and 55 (see, e.g., Lu et al., Molecular Therapy 2011;19:9-15). In some embodiments, more
than one agent, e.g., antisense oligonucleotides, can be used to induce multi-exon skipping.
IX.      Pharmaceutical Compositions
                                                 111

The present invention further provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising an anti
myostatin Adnectin or fusion proteins thereof described herein, wherein the composition is
essentially endotoxin free, or at least contain no more than acceptable levels of endotoxins as
determined by the appropriate regulatory agency (e.g., FDA).
Compositions of the present invention can be in the form of a pill, tablet, capsule, liquid, or
sustained release tablet for oral administration; a liquid for intravenous, subcutaneous or
parenteral administration; or a gel, lotion, ointment, cream, or a polymer or other sustained
release vehicle for local administration.
Methods well known in the art for making compositions are found, for example, in
"Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy" (20th ed., ed. A. R. Gennaro AR., 2000,
Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Philadelphia, Pa.). Compositions for parenteral
administration may, for example, contain excipients, sterile water, saline, polyalkylene
glycols such as polyethylene glycol, oils of vegetable origin, or hydrogenated napthalenes.
Biocompatible, biodegradable lactide polymer, lactide/glycolide copolymer, or
polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene copolymers may be used to control the release of the
compounds. Nanoparticulate compositions (e.g., biodegradable nanoparticles, solid lipid
nanoparticles, liposomes) may be used to control the biodistribution of the compounds. Other
potentially useful parenteral delivery systems include ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer
particles, osmotic pumps, implantable infusion systems, and liposomes. The concentration of
the compound in the composition varies depending upon a number of factors, including the
dosage of the drug to be administered, and the route of administration.
Acceptable carriers, excipients, or stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and
concentrations employed, and include buffers such as phosphate, citrate, and other organic
acids; antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine; preservatives (such as
octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride; hexamethonium chloride; benzalkonium
chloride, benzethonium chloride; phenol, butyl or benzyl alcohol; alkyl parabens such as
methyl or propyl paraben; catechol; resorcinol; cyclohexanol; 3-pentanol; and m-cresol); low
molecular weight (less than about 10 residues) polypeptides; proteins, such as serum albumin,
gelatin, or immunoglobulins; hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone; amino
acids such as glycine, glutamine, asparagine, histidine, arginine, or lysine; monosaccharides,
disaccharides, and other carbohydrates including glucose, mannose, or dextrans; chelating
agents such as EDTA; sugars such as sucrose, mannitol, trehalose or sorbitol; salt-forming
                                                112

counter-ions such as sodium; metal complexes (e.g., Zn-protein complexes); and/or non-ionic
surfactants such as Tween, PLURONIC TM or polyethylene glycol (PEG).
The polypeptides of the present invention may be optionally administered as a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt, such as non-toxic acid addition salts or metal complexes
that are commonly used in the pharmaceutical industry. Examples of acid addition salts
include organic acids such as acetic, lactic, pamoic, maleic, citric, malic, ascorbic, succinic,
benzoic, palmitic, suberic, salicylic, tartaric, methanesulfonic, toluenesulfonic, or
trifluoroacetic acids or the like; polymeric acids such as tannic acid, carboxymethyl cellulose,
or the like; and inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid
phosphoric acid, or the like. Metal complexes include zinc, iron, and the like. In one example,
the polypeptide is formulated in the presence of sodium acetate to increase thermal stability.
The active ingredients may also be entrapped in a microcapsule prepared, for example, by
coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization, for example,
hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin-microcapsule and poly-(methylmethacylate) microcapsule,
respectively, in colloidal drug delivery systems (for example, liposomes, albumin
microspheres, microemulsions, nano-particles and nanocapsules) or in macroemulsions. Such
techniques are disclosed in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition, Osol, A. Ed.
(1980).
Sustained-release preparations may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained-release
preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing the
proteins of the invention, which matrices are in the form of shaped articles, e.g., films, or
microcapsule. Examples of sustained-release matrices include polyesters, hydrogels (for
example, poly(2-hydroxyethyl-methacrylate), or poly(vinylalcohol)), polylactides (U.S. Pat.
No. 3,773,919), copolymers of L-glutamic acid and y ethyl-L-glutamate, non-degradable
ethylene-vinyl acetate, degradable lactic acid-glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON
DEPOTm (injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid-glycolic acid copolymer and
leuprolide acetate), and poly-D-(-)-3-hydroxybutyric acid. While polymers such as ethylene
vinyl acetate and lactic acid-glycolic acid enable release of molecules for over 100 days,
certain hydrogels release proteins for shorter time periods. When encapsulated proteins of the
invention may remain in the body for a long time, they may denature or aggregate as a result
of exposure to moisture at 370 C, resulting in a loss of biological activity and possible changes
in immunogenicity. Rational strategies can be devised for stabilization depending on the
mechanism involved. For example, if the aggregation mechanism is discovered to be
                                                 113

intermolecular S-S bond formation through thio-disulfide interchange, stabilization may be
achieved by modifying sulfhydryl residues, lyophilizing from acidic solutions, controlling
moisture content, using appropriate additives, and developing specific polymer matrix
compositions.
Compositions of the present invention for oral use include tablets containing the active
ingredient(s) in a mixture with non-toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. These
excipients may be, for example, inert diluents or fillers (e.g., sucrose and sorbitol),
lubricating agents, glidants, and anti-adhesives (e.g., magnesium stearate, zinc stearate,
stearic acid, silicas, hydrogenated vegetable oils, or talc). Compositions for oral use may also
be provided as chewable tablets, or as hard gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is
mixed with an inert solid diluent, or as soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is
mixed with water or an oil medium.
The pharmaceutical composition to be used for in vivo administration typically must be
sterile. This may be accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes. Where
the composition is lyophilized, sterilization using this method may be conducted either prior
to or following lyophilization and reconstitution. The composition for parenteral
administration may be stored in lyophilized form or in solution. In addition, parenteral
compositions generally are placed into a container having a sterile access port, for example,
an intravenous solution bag or vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection
needle.
Once the pharmaceutical composition has been formulated, it may be stored in sterile vials as
a solution, suspension, gel, emulsion, solid, or a dehydrated or lyophilized powder. Such
formulations may be stored either in a ready-to-use form or in a form (e.g., lyophilized)
requiring reconstitution prior to administration.
The compositions herein may also contain more than one active compound as necessary for
the particular indication being treated, preferably those with complementary activities that do
not adversely affect each other. Such molecules are suitably present in combination in
amounts that are effective for the purpose intended.
X.       Administration
A pharmaceutical composition comprising an anti-myostatin Adnectin of the present
invention can be administered to a subject at risk for or exhibiting pathologies as described
herein using standard administration techniques including oral, parenteral, pulmonary,
                                                114

transdermal, intramuscular, intranasal, buccal, sublingual, or suppository administration.
Preferably, administration of the anti-myostatin Adnectins the invention is parenteral. The
term parenteral as used herein includes intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous, rectal,
vaginal, or intraperitoneal administration. Peripheral systemic delivery by intravenous or
intraperitoneal or subcutaneous injection is preferred.
A therapeutically effective dose refers to a dose that produces the therapeutic effects for
which it is administered. An effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition to be
employed therapeutically will depend, for example, upon the therapeutic context and
objectives. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the appropriate dosage levels for
treatment will thus vary depending, in part, upon the molecule delivered, the indication for
which the binding agent molecule is being used, the route of administration, and the size
(body weight, body surface or organ size) and condition (the age and general health) of the
patient.
For example, the therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially either in cell culture
assays or in animal models such as mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, pigs, or monkeys. An animal
model may also be used to determine the appropriate concentration range and route of
administration. Such information can then be used to determine useful doses and routes for
administration in humans.
The exact dosage will be determined in light of factors related to the subject requiring
treatment, and may be ascertained using standard techniques. Dosage and administration are
adjusted to provide sufficient levels of the active compound or to maintain the desired effect.
Factors that may be taken into account include the severity of the disease state, the general
health of the subject, the age, weight, and gender of the subject, time and frequency of
administration, drug combination(s), reaction sensitivities, and response to therapy. In
general, the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the present invention are administered at about 0.01
mg/kg to about 50 mg/kg per day, preferably 0.01 mg/kg to about 30 mg/kg per day, most
preferably 0.01 mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg per day. In some embodiments, the anti-myostatin
Adnectins of the present invention are administered at weekly dosages of about 1 to 50 mg,
more preferably about 10-50 mg. In other embodiments, the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the
present invention are administered at monthly doses of 30-200 mg, preferably 50-150 mg,
and more preferably 60-120 mg.
                                                115

The frequency of dosing will depend upon the pharmacokinetic parameters of the binding
agent molecule in the formulation used. Typically, a composition is administered until a
dosage is reached that achieves the desired effect. The composition may therefore be
administered as a single dose or as multiple doses (at the same or different
concentrations/dosages) over time, or as a continuous infusion. Further refinement of the
appropriate dosage is routinely made. Appropriate dosages may be ascertained through use of
appropriate dose-response data. For example, the anti-myostatin Adnectin may be given daily
(e.g., once, twice, three times, or four times daily) or less frequently (e.g., once every other
day, once or twice weekly, or monthly). In addition, as is known in the art, adjustments for
age as well as the body weight, general health, sex, diet, time of administration, drug
interaction, and the severity of the disease may be necessary, and will be ascertainable with
routine experimentation by those skilled in the art. The anti-myostatin Adnectin is suitably
administered to the patient at one time or over a series of treatments.
Administration of an anti-myostatin Adnectin or a fusion thereof, and one or more additional
therapeutic agents, whether co-administered or administered sequentially, may occur as
described above for therapeutic applications. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carriers,
diluents, and excipients for co-administration will be understood by the skilled artisan to
depend on the identity of the particular therapeutic agent being administered.
XI.     Methods of Detection and Diagnostics
The anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention are also useful in a variety of diagnostic
applications. For example, an anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention may be used to
diagnose a disorder or disease associated with increased levels of myostatin. In a similar
manner, an anti-myostatin Adnectin can be used in an assay to monitor myostatin levels in a
subject being treated for a myostatin-associated condition. The anti-myostatin Adnectins may
be used with or without modification, and are labeled by covalent or non-covalent attachment
of a detectable moiety. The detectable moiety can be any one which is capable of producing,
either directly or indirectly, a detectable signal. For example, the detectable moiety may be a
radioisotope, such as H3, C14 or 13, P32, S35, or 1131; a fluorescent or chemiluminescent
compound, such as fluorescein isothiocyanate, rhodamine, or luciferin; or an enzyme, such as
alkaline phosphatase, beta-galactosidase or horseradish peroxidase.
Any method known in the art for conjugating a protein to the detectable moiety may be
employed, including those methods described by Hunter, et al., Nature 144:945 (1962);
                                                 116

David, et al., Biochemistry 13:1014 (1974); Pain, et al., J Immunol. Meth. 40:219 (1981); and
Nygren, J Histochem. and Cytochem. 30:407 (1982). In vitro methods include conjugation
chemistry well known in the art, including chemistry compatible with proteins, such as
chemistry for specific amino acids, such as Cys and Lys. In order to link a moiety (such as
PEG) to a protein of the invention, a linking group or reactive group is used. Suitable linking
groups are well known in the art and include disulfide groups, thioether groups, acid labile
groups, photolabile groups, peptidase labile groups and esterase labile groups. Preferred
linking groups are disulfide groups and thioether groups depending on the application. For
polypeptides without a Cys amino acid, a Cys can be engineered in a location to allow for
activity of the protein to exist while creating a location for conjugation.
Anti-myostatin Adnectins linked with a detectable moiety also are useful for in vivo imaging.
The polypeptide may be linked to a radio-opaque agent or radioisotope, administered to a
subject, preferably into the bloodstream, and the presence and location of the labeled protein
in the subject is assayed. This imaging technique is useful in the staging and treatment of
malignancies. The protein may be labeled with any moiety that is detectable in a subject,
whether by nuclear magnetic resonance, radiology, or other detection means known in the art.
Anti-myostatin Adnectins also are useful as affinity purification agents. In this process, the
polypeptides are immobilized on a suitable support, such a Sephadex resin or filter paper,
using methods well known in the art.
Anti-myostatin Adnectins can be employed in any known assay method, such as competitive
binding assays, direct and indirect sandwich assays, and immunoprecipitation assays (Zola,
Monoclonal Antibodies: A Manual of Techniques, pp. 147-158 (CRC Press, Inc., 1987)).
In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for detecting a target molecule in a
sample. A method may comprise contacting the sample with an anti-myostatin Adnectins
described herein, wherein said contacting is carried out under conditions that allow anti
myostatin Adnectin-target complex formation; and detecting said complex, thereby detecting
said target in said sample. Detection may be carried out using any art-recognized technique,
such as, e.g., radiography, immunological assay, fluorescence detection, mass spectroscopy,
or surface plasmon resonance. The sample may be from a human or other mammal. The anti
myostatin Adnectins may be labeled with a labeling moiety, such as a radioactive moiety, a
fluorescent moiety, a chromogenic moiety, a chemiluminescent moiety, or a hapten moiety.
The anti-myostatin Adnectins may be immobilized on a solid support.
                                                 117

XII.     Kits and Articles of Manufacture
The anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention can be provided in a kit, a packaged
combination of reagents in predetermined amounts with instructions for use in the therapeutic
or diagnostic methods of the invention.
For example, in one embodiment of the invention, an article of manufacture containing
materials useful for the treatment or prevention of the disorders or conditions described above
is provided. The article of manufacture comprises a container and a label. Suitable containers
include, for example, bottles, vials, syringes, and test tubes. The containers may be formed
from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container holds a composition of the
invention which is effective for preventing or treating the disorder or condition and may have
a sterile access port (for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial
having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle). The active agent in the
composition is an anti-myostatin Adnectin of the invention. The label on, or associated with,
the container indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice. The
article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a
pharmaceutically-acceptable buffer, such as phosphate-buffered saline, Ringer's solution and
dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and
user standpoint, including other buffers, diluents, filters, needles, syringes, and package
inserts with instructions for use.
Incorporation by Reference
All documents and references, including patent documents and websites, described herein are
individually incorporated by reference to into this document to the same extent as if there
were written in this document in full or in part.
                                           EXAMPLES
The invention is now described by reference to the following examples, which are illustrative
only, and are not intended to limit the present invention. While the invention has been
described in detail and with reference to specific embodiments thereof, it will be apparent to
                                                118

one of skill in the art that various changes and modifications can be made thereto without
departing from the spirit and scope thereof.
Example 1 - Protein Production
High Throughput Protein Production (HTPP)
Selected binders cloned into the PET9d vector upstream of a HIS6tag and transformed into
E.coli BL21 DE3 plysS cells were inoculated in 5 ml LB medium containing 50 pg/mL
kanamycin in a 24-well format and grown at 37'C overnight. Fresh 5 ml LB medium (50
pg/mL kanamycin) cultures were prepared for inducible expression by aspiration of 200 ptl
from the overnight culture and dispensing it into the appropriate well. The cultures were
grown at 37'C until A600 0.6-0.9. After induction with 1 mM isopropyl-p-thiogalactoside
(IPTG), the culture was expressed for 6 hours at 3 00 C and harvested by centrifugation for 10
minutes at 2750 g at 4'C.
Cell pellets (in 24-well format) were lysed by resuspension in 450 pl of Lysis buffer (50 mM
NaH2PO4, 0.5 M NaCl, Ix Complete        TM Protease Inhibitor Cocktail-EDTA free (Roche), 1
mM PMSF, 10 mM CHAPS, 40 mM imidazole, I mg/ml lysozyme, 30 pg/ml DNAse, 2
 tg/ml aprotonin, pH 8.0) and shaken at room temperature for 1-3 hours. Lysates were
cleared and re-racked into a 96-well fonnat by transfer into a 96-well Whatman GF/D
Unifilter fitted with a 96-well, 1.2 ml catch plate and filtered by positive pressure. The
cleared lysates were transferred to a 96-well Nickel or Cobalt-Chelating Plate that had been
equilibrated with equilibration buffer (50 mM NaH2PO 4 , 0.5 M NaCl, 40 mM imidazole, pH
8.0) and were incubated for 5 min. Unbound material was removed by positive pressure.
The resin was washed twice with 0.3 ml/well with Wash buffer #1 (50 mM NaH2PO4, 0.5 M
NaCl, 5 mM CHAPS, 40 mM imidazole, pH 8.0). Each wash was removed by positive
pressure. Prior to elution, each well was washed with 50 pl Elution buffer (PBS + 20 mM
EDTA), incubated for 5 min, and this wash was discarded by positive pressure. Protein was
eluted by applying an additional 100 pl of Elution buffer to each well. After a 30 minute
incubation at room temperature, the plate(s) were centrifuged for 5 minutes at 200 g and
eluted protein collected in 96-well catch plates containing 5P1 of 0.5 M MgC2 added to the
bottom of elution catch plate prior to elution. Eluted protein was quantified using a total
protein assay with wild-type '0 Fn3 domain as the protein standard.
Expression andpurification of insoluble fibronectin-based scaffold protein binders
                                                119

For expression, selected clone(s), followed by the HIS6tag, were cloned into a pET9d vector
and were expressed in E.coli BL21 DE3 plysS cells. Twenty ml of an inoculum culture
(generated from a single plated colony) was used to inoculate 1 liter of LB medium or TB
Overnight Expression Media (auto induction) containing 50 pg/ml Kanamycin and 34 Vg/ml
chloramphenicol. Cultures in LB medium were incubated at 370 C until A600 0.6-1.0 at which
time they were induced with 1 mM isopropyl-p-thiogalactoside (IPTG) and grown for 4
hours at 30'C. Cultures grown in TB-Overnight Expression Media were incubated at 37 0 C
for 5 hours, at which time the temperature was lowered to 18'C and grown for 19 hours.
Cultures were harvested by centrifugation for 30 minutes at >10,000 g at 4 C. Cell pellets
were frozen at -80'C. After thawing, the cell pellet was resuspended in 25 ml of lysis buffer
(20 mM NaH 2 PO 4 , 0.5 M NaCl, 1x Complete Im Protease Inhibitor Cocktail-EDTA free
(Roche), pH 7.4) using an Ultra-turrax homogenizer (IKA works) on ice. Cell lysis was
achieved by high pressure homogenization ( 18,000 psi) using a Model M-1 1OS
Microfluidizer (Microfluidics). The insoluble fraction was separated by centrifugation for 30
minutes at >23,300 g at 4'C. The insoluble pellet recovered from centrifugation of the lysate
was washed with 20 mM sodium phosphate/500 mM NaCl, pH7.4. The pellet was
resolubilized in 6 M guanidine hydrochloride in 20 mM sodium phosphate/500 mM NaCl pH
7.4 with sonication, followed by incubation at 37 degrees for 1-2 hours. The resolubilized
pellet was filtered with a 0.45 pim filter and loaded onto a Histrap column equilibrated with
the 20 mM sodium phosphate/500 mM NaCl/6 M guanidine pH7.4 buffer. After loading, the
column was washed for an additional 25 column volumes with the same buffer. Bound
protein was eluted with 50 mM imidazole in 20 mM sodium phosphate/500 mM NaCI/6 M
guanidine-HCI, pH 7.4. The purified protein was refolded by dialysis against 50 mM sodium
acetate/150 mM NaCl, pH 4.5 or PBS, pH 7.2.
Expression andpurification of soluble fibronectin-based scaffold protein binders
As an alternative to purification of insoluble binders, the purification of soluble binders may
also be used. For expression, selected clone(s), followed by the HIS6tag, were cloned into a
pET9d vector and expressed in E.coli BL21 DE3 plysS cells. Twenty ml of an inoculum
culture (generated from a single plated colony) were used to inoculate 1 liter of LB medium
or TB-Overnight Expression Media (auto induction) containing 50 pg/mIl Kanamycin and 34
pig/ml chloramphenicol. Cultures in LB medium were incubated at 37 0 C until A60 0 0.6-1.0,
followed by induction with I mM isopropyl-3-thiogalactoside (IPTG) and grown for 4 hours
                                                 120

at 30'C. Cultures grown in TB-Overnight Expression Media were incubated at 37'C for 5
hours, after which the temperature was lowered to 18'C and they were grown for 19 hours.
Cultures were harvested by centrifugation for 30 minutes at >10,000 g at 4'C. Cell pellets
were frozen at -80'C. The thawed cell pellet was resuspended in 25 ml of lysis buffer (20
mM NaH 2PO 4 , 0.5 M NaCl, 1x Complete      TM Protease Inhibitor Cocktail-EDTA free (Roche),
pH 7.4) using an Ultra-turrax homogenizer (IKA works) on ice. Cell lysis was achieved by
high pressure homogenization ( 18,000 psi) using a Model M-1 1OS Microfluidizer
(Microfluidics). The soluble fraction was separated by centrifugation for 30 minutes at >
23,300 g at 4'C. The supernatant was clarified using a 0.45 Itm filter. The clarified lysate is
loaded onto a Histrap column (GE) pre-equilibrated with 20 mM sodium phosphate/500 mM
NaCl, pH 7.4. The column was then washed with 25 column volumes of the same buffer,
followed by 20 column volumes of 20 mM sodium phosphate/500 mM NaCI/25 mM
imidazole, pH 7.4 and then 35 column volumes of 20 mM sodium phosphate/500 mM
NaCl/40 mM imidazole, pH 7.4. Protein was eluted with 15 column volumes of 20 mM
sodium phosphate/500 mM NaCI/500 mM imidazole, pH 7.4, fractions were pooled based on
absorbance at A 280 , and dialyzed against 1x PBS or 50 mM Tris, 150 mM NaCl, pH 8.5 or 50
mM NaOAc, 150 mM NaCl, pH4.5. Precipitates were removed by filtering with a 0.22 Pim
filter.
Site-specific PEGylation ofAdnectins with polyethylene glycol (PEG)
Adnectins containing an engineered cysteine residue were conjugated with PEG or cysteine
blocking reagent via Michael-addition chemistry between the thiol group on the cysteine and
the maleimide functional group of the PEG or n-ethylmaleimide (NEM). For PEGylation
with 2-branched 40kDa PEG (NOF Corporation, P/N GL2-400MA), PEG was added in molar
excess to the protein solution under slightly acidic to neutral conditions. The reaction was
allowed to proceed at room temperature for 2 hours to overnight. The reaction was then
applied to an ion exchange column to separate the PEGylated Adnectin from the unreacted
PEG-maleimide and non-PEGylated Adnectin. For PEGylation with 4-branched 40kDa PEG
(NOF, P/N GL4-400MA) or 20kDa bis-PEG (NOF corporation, P/N DE-200MA), the
Adnectin was purified from SP FF in citrate buffer, pH 6.5. Following reduction with DTT,
the sample was desalted on a G25 column into the same buffer to remove DTT and reacted
with 20kDa bis-PEG or 4-branched 40K PEG at a 2:1 (PEG:adnectin) ratio for 2 hours at
room temperature, and the reaction stopped with the addition of excess BME. The sample
was purified by a Resource 15S column (GE #17-0944-10) to selectively remove un
                                               121

PEGylated species (and mono-PEGylated species in the case of 20kDa bis-PEG reaction). A
final preparative SEC column (GE #17-1071-01, Superdex200, 26/60) was used (if needed)
to remove high molecular species and unreactive Adnectin. To prepare a CYS-blocked
Adnectin, a 10-fold molar excess of NEM (Pierce Chemical) was added immediately after the
above mentioned G25 desalting step in citrate (pH 6.5) buffer. This was incubated for 1 hour
at room temperature and the reaction stopped by the addition of excess BME. The sample
was then extensively dialysed against PBS. The purified conjugated adnectins were analyzed
by SDS-PAGE and size exclusion chromatography.
Purification and PEGylation of un-tagged fibronectin-based scaffold protein binders
Selected binders were cloned into a pET9d vector with no HIS6tag and expressed in E.coli
BL21 DE3 plysS cells. 25 ml of an inoculums culture previously isolated from a single plated
colony were grown in a 125 ml flask until OD 600 mn reached 1-2, using pH 6.85 media +
50ug/ml kanamycin (Ammonium Chloride, Citric Acid, Ferric Ammonium Citrate,
Magnesium Sulfate, Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate, Dextrose Anhydrous,
Glycerol, Phytone Peptone, Yeast Extract Granulated, Kanamycin Sulfate, Ammonium
Sulfate for pH adjustment). A 10 L fermentor (7.5 L starting volume of batch media) was
inoculated at a final OD 600 nm of 0.003. The culture was grown overnight at 25'C with
constant mixing at 650 rpm and dissolved 02 levels of>30%, while maintaining pH. The
next day, the temperature was shifted to 37'C and the culture was grown until OD 600 nm
reached 20-25. Once the target OD was achieved, the temperature was shifted to 30'C and
the culture induced with IPTG (final concentration: 1 mM). A feed media (Glycerol, Phytone
Peptone, Yeast Extract Granulated, Kanamycin Sulfate, and Phosphoric Acid for pH
adjustment) was added at a rate of 40 ml media/L formation volume/hr. Cells were harvested
by centrifugation at 10,000g for 30min at 4'C. Cell pellets were frozen at -80'C.
Cell paste was thawed in 1x PBS at a ratio of 10 ml buffer/g cell paste. Once thawed, the
sample was disrupted with an UltraTurrax homogenizer (IKA works) until homogenous. The
solution was then passed twice through a microfluidizer at 18,000 psi. The soluble fraction
was separated by centrifugation for 30 minutes at > 10,000g at 4'C. The supernatant was
diluted 1:1 with sodium acetate (pH 4.5), and clarified with a 0.2 ptm filter. The clarified
lysate was loaded onto a SP FF column (SPI; GE) pre-equilibrated with 50 mM sodium
acetate (pH 4.5). The column was then washed with 2 column volumes of the same buffer,
followed by 8 column volumes of 50 mM sodium acetate/350 mM NaCl, pH 4.5. Protein
                                              122

was eluted with 50 mM sodium acetate/700 mM NaCl, pH 4.5. Elutions were pooled based
on absorbance at A280.
The SPI elution was diluted 1:5 with 20 mM sodium phosphate (pH 6.7) and loaded onto a
SP FF column (SP2) pre-equilibrated with 20 mM sodium phosphate/100 mM NaCl, pH 6.7.
The column was then washed with 2 column volumes of the same buffer. Protein was eluted
from the column with 20 mM sodium phosphate/0.5 M NaCl, pH 6.7. Elutions were pooled
based on absorbance at A 280 .
The SP2 elution was diluted to 100 mM NaCl with 20 mM sodium phosphate (pH 6.7) and
loaded onto a  Q FF column   (GE) pre-equilibrated with 20 mM sodium phosphate/100 mM
NaCl, pH 6.7. The FT peak (containing product) was collected. The column was washed
with equilibration buffer until the FT peak returned to baseline.
Adnectins containing an engineered cysteine residue were conjugated with PEG via Michael
addition chemistry between the thiol group on the cysteine and the maleimide functional
group of the PEG reagent. The    Q FT  fraction was PEGylated with 40kDa branched PEG at a
molar ratio of 2:1 PEG to protein. The sample was incubated overnight at room temperature.
The PEGylation reaction was diluted with 2 parts 50 mM sodium acetate (pH 4.5) and loaded
onto a SP FF column (GE) pre-equilibrated with 50 mM sodium acetate (pH 4.5). The
column was washed with 2 column volumes of the same buffer. PEGylated protein was
eluted from the column with 50 mM sodium acetate/200 mM NaCl, pH 4.5). Elutions were
pooled based on absorbance at A2 8 0. PEGylated protein was concentrated using a 30kDa
Millipore Biomax membrane. The sample was filtered over a 0.22 pm filter and stored at, for
example, 4'C, -20'C, or -80'C.
Transient expression and purification of Fc-formattedfibronectin-based scaffold protein
binders
For DNA generation, selected candidates were cloned into a pDV- 16 plasmid from which E.
coli Top10 cells were transformed. pDV-16 is a modified version of pTT5 (Yves Durocher,
NRC Canada), wherein the human IgG1-Fc coding sequence has been introduced, preceded
by signal sequence, and restriction sites were included to allow insertion of Adnectin coding
sequences at either terminus of the Fc. Transformed cells were expanded by inoculating I L
of Luria broth containing 100 pig/ml Ampicillin and incubating in a rotating incubator at 225
rpm for 18 hours at 37'C. Bacterial pellets were harvested by centrifugation at >100OOg for
30 minutes at 4'C. Purified plasmid DNA was isolated using a QIAGEN Plasmid Plus Mega
                                                123

Kit (QIAGEN) as described in the manufacturer's protocol. Purified DNA was quantified
using absorbance at 260nm and frozen at -80'C prior to use.
HEK 293-EBNAI (clone 6E) (Yves Durocher, NRC Canada) cells were expanded to 2x10 6
cells/ml in 2 L of F17 media in a 10 L GE Healthcare Wave bag at 370 C, 5% C0 2 , and mixed
by rocking at an 8 degree angle at 18 rpm.
DNA was prepared for transfection as follows: F17 media was warmed to 370 C. DNA and a
PEI transfection reagent were thawed in a sterile biosafety hood. DNA (2.25 mg) was added
to 100 ml of warmed F17 media in a sterile polypropylene culture flask and gently mixed by
swirling. In a separate flask, 6.75 mg of PEI (1 mg/ml) was combined with 100 ml of pre
warmed F17 media and gently mixed by swirling. The flasks were allowed to rest for 5
minutes prior to combining the contents by adding the PEI solution to the flask containing the
DNA and gently mixing by swirling.
The contents of the flask containing the DNA:PEI mixture were added to the wave bag
containing the HEK 293-6E cells after incubating at room temperature for 15 minutes in the
biosafety hood. The bag containing the transfected HEK 293-6E cells was incubated for
twenty four hours at 370 C, 5% CO2, and mixed by rocking at an 8 degree angle at 18 RPM.
After 24 hours, 100 ml of sterile filtered 20% Tryptone NI (Organotechnie, Canada)
dissolved in F17 media was aseptically added to the culture. The cells and media were
harvested after an additional 72 hours of incubation as described above. Alternatively,
transient HEK expression in shake flasks (0.5 L media in a 2 L flask) can be performed with
a DNA:PEI ratio of 1:2. Cells were separated from the conditioned media by centrifugation
at 6000g for 30 minutes at 4'C. The conditioned media was retained, filtered through a 0.2
pM filter, and stored at 4'C.
The conditioned media was applied to a 10 ml chromatography column containing GE
MabSelect Sure resin pre-equilibrated in PBS at a rate of 5 ml/minute. After loading the
filtered conditioned media, the column was washed with at least 100 ml of PBS at room
temperature. The purified product was eluted from the column with the application of 100
mM Glycine/I00 mM NaCl, pH 3.0. Fractions were neutralized in pH either by collecting
into tubes containing 1/6 volume of IM Tris pH 8, or by pooling according to A280
absorbance followed by addition of IM Tris pH 8 to 100 mM. If the content of high
molecular weight species is greater than 5% after Protein A elution, then the sample is further
purified by a Superdex 200 (26/60) column (GE Healthcare) in PBS. The SEC fractions
                                               124

containing monomers are pooled and concentrated. The resulting protein A or SEC pool was
exhaustively dialyzed against PBS at 4'C, and sterile filtered using a 0.22 pm cutoff filter
prior to freezing at -80'C.
Bulk Manufacturing: Mammalian Expression and Primary Recovery: UCOE CHO System
A mammalian Research Cell Bank (RCB) was created by transfecting anti-myostatin
Adnectin-Fc fusions cloned into the pUCOE vector containing the Ubiquitous Chromatin
Opening Element (UCOE) [Modified UCOE vector from Millipore] in CHO-S cells. An RCB
was established by expanding cells in selection media (0.04% (v/v) L-Glutamine (Invitrogen)
and 0.01% (v/v) HT Supplement (Invitrogen) in CD CHO medium (Invitrogen)) containing
12.5 pg/mL puromycin. Low passage number cells were aseptically isolated via
centrifugation, resuspended in banking media (0.04% (v/v) L-Glutamine (Invitrogen), 0.0 1%
(v/v) HT Supplement (Invitrogen) and 7.5% (v/v) DMSO in CD CHO medium (,Invitrogen))
to a final concentration of 1 x 107 cells/mL. These cells were initially frozen in a 70%
isopropyl alcohol bath at -80'C overnight and then transferred to liquid nitrogen for long term
storage the following day.
Cell culture was initiated by thawing a single RCB vial into 25 mL of selection media
containing 12.5 pg/mL puromycin and expanding the culture in the same media. Cells were
allowed to reach a concentration between 1-2 x 106 cells/mL before being split back to 0.2 x
106 cells/mL. Cells were generally maintained between 2-4 weeks prior to seeding a
bioreactor. The expansion culture was passaged a final time and allowed to grow to the point
where a 15 L bioreactor containing 8 L of production media (Invitrogen CD CHO media
containing 0.01% (v/v) HT Supplement (Invitrogen), 0.04% (v/v) Glutamax (Gibco), and
0.005% (v/v) Pluronic F-68 (Gibco)) could be seeded at a final density of 0.2 x 106 cells/mL.
The bioreactor culture was monitored daily for VCD (Viable Cell Density), percent Viability,
pH, and glucose concentration. The bioreactor culture was fed on days 3 and 6 with a 10%
total volume bolus addition of Feed Media. The culture was harvested between Day 7 and
Day 9 with a percent viability >70%. During culture, the bioreactor culture was controlled at
a pH of 7.1, temperature of 37 C, %D02 of 40%, and a constant RPM of 100.
On the day of harvest, the bioreactor cultures were directly passed through a 6.0/3.0 pIn depth
filter followed by a sterile 0.8/0.2 ptm filtration into a sterile bag. Clarified sterile culture was
stored overnight at 2-8'C. The clarified culture was then concentrated via flatsheet TFF
using a 30,000 kDa membrane. The approximate concentration was 6x, depending on harvest
                                                  125

titer. Concentrated supernatant was then sterile filtered into PETG bottles and either
processed directly or stored at -80'C.
Anti-myostatin-Adnectin-Fc Fusion Purification
Harvested culture supernatant (neat or concentrated) is loaded onto a MabSelect Protein A
column previously equilibrated with PBS. Column is washed with 5CV of 50mM Tris
pH8.0, IM Urea, 10% PG. Adnectin-Fc fusion is eluted with 100 mM Glycine pH 3.3,
collecting the peak into a container which is previously charged with 1CV of 200 mM
Sodium Acetate pH 4.5. Peak elution is based on absorbance at A280.
The Protein A elution is diluted to pH 3.0 with the addition of 2 M Citric Acid and left at
room temperature for 1 hour, for viral inactivation. Sample is then diluted with 200 mM
Sodium Phosphate Tribasic until pH 4.5 is reached. If necessary, the solution is further
diluted with water to lower conductivity below 1Oms/cm.
The diluted Protein A elution is passed over a Tosoh   Q 600C AR (Tosoh Bioscience),
previously conditioned with 50mM Sodium Acetate pH 4.5, in a negative capture mode. The
flowthrough peak is collected, based on absorbance at A280.     The column is washed with
50mM Sodium Acetate and stripped with 0.2N NaOH.
The   Q 600C AR   flowthrough is formulated using tangential flow filtration utilizing a 30K
NMWCO hollow fiber membrane (GE), with very gentle mixing of the retentate. The
adnectin-Fc fusion is diafiltered into 25mM Sodium Phosphate 150mM Trehalose pH 7.0 for
6 diavolumes, and then concentrated to a target protein concentration.
Example 2 - Biophysical Assessment of Anti-myostatin Proteins
Size exclusion chromatography: Standard size exclusion chromatography (SEC) was
performed on candidate Adnectins resulting from the midscale process. SEC of midscaled
material was performed using a Superdex 200 10/30 or on a Superdex 75 10/30 column (GE
Healthcare) on an Agilent 1100 or 1200 HPLC system with UV detection at A214 nm and
A280 nm and with fluorescence detection (excitation 280 nm, emission 350 nm). A buffer of
100 mM sodium sulfate/100 mM sodium phosphate/150 mM sodium chloride, pH 6.8 was
used at the appropriate flow rate for the SEC column employed. Gel filtration standards (Bio
Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA) were used for molecular weight calibration. The results of
the SEC on midscaled purified Adnectins showed predominantly monomeric adnectin and
                                               126

elution in the approximate range of 10 kDa vs. globular Gel Filtration standards (BioRad) as
shown in Tables 9 and 10.
Thermostability: Thermal Scanning Fluorescence (TSF) analysis of HTPP Adnectins was
performed to screen them by relative thermal stability. Samples were normalized to 0.2
mg/ml in PBS. I pl of Sypro orange dye diluted 1:40 with PBS was added to 25 pl of each
sample and the plate was sealed with a clear 96 well microplate adhesive seal. Samples were
scanned using a BioRad RT-PCR machine by ramping the temperature from 25 0 C-950 C, at a
rate of 2 degrees per minute. The data was analyzed using BioRad CFX manager 2.0
software. Th values obtained by TSF have been shown to correlate well with Tin values
obtained by DSC over a melting range of 40'C to 70'C. This is considered the acceptable
working range for this technique. A result of ND ("No data") is obtained when the slope of
the transition curve is too small to allow its derivative peak (the rate of change in
fluorescence with time) to be distinguished from noise. An "ND" result cannot be interpreted
as an indication of thermostability. Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) analyses of
dialyzed HTPP'd and midscaled Adnectins were performed to determine their respective
Tm's. A 0.5 mg/ml solution was scanned in a VP-Capillary Differential Scanning calorimeter
(GE Microcal) by ramping the temperature from 15 'C to 1 10 C, at a rate of I degree per
minute under 70 p.s.i pressure. The data was analyzed vs. a control run of the appropriate
buffer using a best fit using Origin Software (OriginLab Corp). The results of the TSF and
DSC analyses are summarized in Tables 8-10. As shown in Tables 8-10, many of the clones
exhibited unfolding temperatures of over 60'C, indicating a highly biophysically stable
structure suitable for medicinal formulation. Adnectins were generally tolerant of
PEGylation or Fc-formatting with no apparent loss in stability. In some cases, these formats
afforded improved stability. For example, 3116_A07 as an unmodified Adnectin has a Tm
by TSF of 60'C, but when PEGylated (ATI-1377) the Tm by DSC was 68'C, and in an Fc-X
format (PRD-1286) the Tm by DSC was 66'C.
Example 3 - Cell-based Luciferase Assay
A luciferase reporter plasmid, Activin-Responsive Element (ARE)-luc, was generated by
ligating nine repeats of the ARE in tandem to the firefly luciferase reporter. The plasmid was
transiently transfected into HepG2 cells. Plasmid pGL4.74[hRluc/TK] was co-transfected to
normalize for transfection efficiency. 10,000 cells were plated per well in a 96-well plate.
When a protein such as myostatin, activin, or BMP- 11, is added to cells and binds to its
cognate receptor, downstream SMAD signaling is triggered, leading to binding of a
                                                127

phosphorylated SMAD complex to the ARE. The amount of, e.g., myostatin, exposed to the
cells is directly proportional to the amount of luciferase protein produced and, consequently,
luciferase activity measured. When a myostatin antagonist (e.g., an anti-myostatin Adnectin)
is added concurrently with myostatin to the cells, activation of the ARE decreases, leading to
a decreased luciferase production and activity.
In this experiment, (1) Anti-myostatin Adnectin and myostatin, (2) anti-myostatin Adnectin
and activin A, or (3) anti-myostatin Adnectin and BMP-1 1 were preincubated prior to
addition to cells. Myostatin (R&D Systems) was used at 10-500 pM, activin A (R&D
Systems) at 10-500 pM, and BMP- 11 (R&D Systems) at 10-500 pM. After overnight
incubation with these various combinations, cells were lysed and luciferase activity
(luminescence) measured using the Dual-Glo Luciferase Assay System (EnVision). The
IC50 is defined as the concentration of Adnectin required to reach 50% inhibition of
myostatin-induced ARE-luciferase activity.
As shown in Tables 8-10, anti-myostatin Adnectins inhibited myostatin-mediated increases in
ARE-luc reporter activity.
Example 4 -HTRF Binding Assay
An HTRF assay was used to measure the binding affinities of anti-myostatin Adnectins to
myostatin. The assay was a competitive HTRF assay using Eu-W1024 label as a donor
fluorophore and Alexa Fluor@ 647 as an acceptor fluorophore. The biotinylated Adnectin
1889E0 I and Alexa Fluor@ 647 labeled rhActRIlb-Fc can bind myostatin simultaneously at
two distinct binding sites. The Eu-W1024 labeled Streptavidin is used to bind biotinylated
1889E01. The two fluorophores, Eu-W1024 and Alexa Fluor 647, are brought together by
the formation of a 1889E01/myostatin/ActRIlb-Fc complex, and the HTRF signal can be read
on an EnVision platereader (Perkin Elmer) using an HTRF protocol. In the presence of a
competitive Adnectin, the HTRF signal decreases. IC50s are presented in Tables 8-10.
Table 8: Biophysical characterization, ARE-luciferase reporter assay, and HTRF binding
assay results for anti-myostatin mono-Adnectins.
                                                      AR-E-luciferase assay              HTRF
ID                    Tm -     Tm-DSC     Myo IC50     BMP-11IC50        Activin A IC50 Myo IC50
                       TSF                   (nM)          (nM)               (nM)        (nM)
1979_B06                          48          0.11          3.3                194         ND
2062_G02                          48          205           1500              >1500        ND
2522_C09                40                    0.06           1.6               1000        ND
                                                 128

                              ARE-luciferase assay              HTRF
ID       Tm - Tm-DSC Myo lC50  BMP-11 IC50      Activin A IC50 Myo IC50
         TSF          (nM)         (nM)              (nM)        (nM)
2523_G06  49    49     4.2           46              >2000        ND
2524_C1I ND     55     0.1          0.89               765        ND
2524_D09  54    49     0.06         0.55               84         ND
2524_EIO ND            0.09         5.6              >1000        ND
2524_H05  40           0.09         7.3              >1000        ND
2524_HI1  49           0.03         6.2              >1000        ND
2525_BO  ND            0.11         3.2                73         ND
2525_D02  58    55     0.05          1.1              345         ND
2525_DO5 ND     69     0.11         3.9              >1000        ND
2525_F07  46           0.13         3.4              >1000        ND
2987_A06        50     0.10          23               283         ND
2987_B04        48     0.12         3.3               239         ND
2987_B09        52     0.01         0.92               172        ND
2987_C02        50     0.06         7.1               464         ND
2987_DO5        49     0.11         2.4               2000        ND
2987_E03        51     0.10         2.3               224         ND
2987_E08        52     0.05         2.8               352         ND
2987_FO1        49     0.05         6.5               594         ND
2987_F06        52     0.08          20               538         ND
2987G04         49     0.09         3.3                171        ND
2987_G09        54     0.05         0.91             >2000        ND
2987_H02        51     0.05          11               794         ND
2987_H07        57     0.02         5.5              >400         ND
3006_A1O  62           0.08         2.0              >2000        0.15
3007_B08  57           0.06         0.23              423         0.14
3007_C09  63           0.04         0.89              417         0.14
3007 C1O  66           0.03          1.0             >2000        0.14
3008_A03  59           0.11         22.6             >2000        0.22
3008_B08  57           0.35         9.3               254         0.37
3008_D04  56           0.09          1.2               720        0.14
3008_FO1  63           0.08         0.12             >2000        0.21
3008 G01  57           0.03         0.31             >2000        0.11
3008_G03  58           0.09          1.3             >2000        0.13
3115_D04  64           0.16         3.6              >1000        0.20
3115_E06  62           0.07         2.0              >1000        0.14
3116_A06  64           0.14          13              >1000        0.15
3116_A07  60           0.04         0.5              >1000        0.11
3116_CO1  60           0.10         6.7               1000        0.35
3116_C06  61           0.14         8.9              >1000        0.18
3116_H06  60           0.10          1.6             >1000        0.13
3146_A08  69           0.70          48              >1000        0.26
ATI-1267        60     0.06         0.50              644         0.12
ATI-1275        53     0.03         0.14                19        0.19
ATI-1277        no     0.14         1.18              2000        0.38
                          129

                                                              ARE-luciferase assay               HTRF
ID                     Tm -   Tm-DSC            Myo IC50       BMP-11 IC50      Activin A IC50  Myo IC50
                       TSF                       (nM)              (nM)              (nM)         (nM)
                               transition
ATI-1340                           54             0.05              4.87              324          0.16
Table 9: Biophysical characterization, ARE-luciferase reporter assay, and HTRF binding
assay results for PEGylated anti-myostatin Adnectins.
                                                                ARE-luciferase assay              HTRF
ID                  Tm      Tm-             %        Myo IC50         BMP-11          Activin A Myo IC50
                     -      DSC        Monomer           (nM)        IC50 (nm)       IC50 (nM)     (nM)
                   TSF                    (SEC)
ATI-1 106                                                 177            1414          >2000
ATI-1107                     63             98             19            888           >2000        ND
ATI-1266                     60            97.8           0.12           0.89           2000        0.21
ATI-1276                     56            94.6           0.08           0.15            110        0.28
ATI-1278                     46            93.7           0.27            1.1          >2000        0.54
ATI-1338                     59                           0.28            5.8          >1000        0.24
ATI-1339                     61                           0.28            6.0          >1000        0.28
ATI-1341                     53                           0.03           0.14             14        0.13
ATI-1359                     57            96.5           0.26            3.1          >1000        0.36
ATI-1375                     67            >99            0.17            1.6          >1000        0.76
ATI-1376                     70            >99            0.03           0.83          >1000        0.32
ATI-1377                     68            >99            0.05           0.78          >1000        0.15
ATI-1378                     74            >99            0.29            5.4          >1000        1.29
ATI-1379                     69            >99            0.10           4.3           >1000        0.28
                                                     130

Table 10: Biophysical characterization, ARE-luciferase reporter assay, and HTRF binding
assay results for Fc-fused anti-myostatin Adnectins.
                                                       ARE-luciferase assay           HTRF
ID                  Tm     Tm-         %     Myo IC50     BMP-11           Activin A Myo IC50
                     -     DSC     Monomer       (nM)    IC50 (nm)        IC50 (nM)    (nM)
                   TSF              (SEC)
PRD-932                                           0.24       ND              ND         ND
PRD-1171                                          0.08       0.20              19       0.14
PRD-1 173                                         0.02       0.10               6       0.12
PRD-1174                  Tml 61                  0.04       0.10               4       0.09
                          Tn2 67
                          Tm3 83
PRD-1175                                          0.10       0.28              19       0.15
PRD- 1177                                         0.16       0.28             21        0.64
PRD-1178                  TmI 60                  0.08       0.25              16       0.27
                          Tm2 69
                          Tm3 84
PRD-1180                  Tml 68                  0.07       0.11              14       0.13
                          Tn2 83
PRD-1 2 84                                        0.02       0.04             44        0.62
PRD-1285                  Tml 67      97          0.05       0.03             216       0.49
                          Tm2 68
                          Tm3 80
PRD-1286                  Tml 66      99          0.10       0.11             94        0.73
                          Tm2 68
                          Tm3 81
PRD-1287                                          0.30       0.80           >1000       2.70
PRD-1288                  Tml 65      93          0.08       0.10           >1000       0.47
                          Tm2 69
                          Tm3 81
PRD-1301                                          0.06       0.06              15       0.07
PRD-1302                                          0.03       0.02              14       0.12
PRD-1303                                          0.02       0.03             314       0.11
PRD-1304                                          0.05       0.07             45        0.24
PRD-1305                                          0.06       0.07             113       0.10
PRD-1471                  Tm1 62      99          0.16       0.16             60        0.47
                          Tn2 68
                          Tm3 81
PRD-1472                  Tml 62      100         0.07       0.05            1000       0.41
                          Tn2 69
                          Tm3 80
PRD-1473                  Tml 63      100         0.07       0.06             125       0.73
                          Tm2 69
                          Tm3 81
                                             131

                                                           ARE-luciferase assay           HTRF
 ID                  Tm      Tm-           %      Myo IC50     BMP-11          Activin A Myo IC50
                      -      DSC       Monomer       (nM)     IC50 (nm)       IC50 (nM)    (nM)
                    TSF                 (SEC)
 PRD-1474                  Tml 63         100         0.08       0.09           >1000       0.45
                           Tn2 69
                           Tm3 81
 Example 5- Anti-myostatin Adnectin-mediated Inhibition of Myostatin-induced SMAD2
 Phosphorylation
 Human rhabdomyosarcoma RH41 cells (DSMZ, Braunschweig, Germany) were used for the
 12-, 2-, and 4-point inhibition response analysis described below. Cells were removed from
 culture medium and washed to remove serum and quiesced in assay media containing BSA
 for 4 hours. Cells were lifted off the flask using versene and transferred to 96-well, V-bottom
                                5
 polypropylene plates at 5x10     cells/well. For the 12-point inhibition response, 100 pM
 recombinant myostatin (R&D Systems), preincubated for 1 hour with a 5-fold dilution
 concentration range of Adnectins starting at 1000 nM (i.e., 1000 nM, 200 nM, 40 nM, 8 nM,
 1.6 nM, 0.32 nM, 0.064 nM, 0.0128 nM, 0.00256 nM, 0.000512 nM, 0.000102 nM, .0000204
 nM), was added to the cells. For the 4-point inhibition response, 100 pM of myostatin,
 preincubated for 1 hour with a concentration range of Adnectins (30 nM, 3 nM, 0.1 nM or
 0.001 nM), was added to the cells. For the 2-point inhibition response, 100 pM of myostatin,
 preincubated for 1 hour with a concentration range of Adnectins (1OnM or 0.5nM), was
 added to the cells. Cells were treated with the myostatin-Adnectin mixture for 1 hour at 37 0 C
 to induce SMAD2 phosphorylation (pSmad2). Stimulation was stopped by placing the cells
 on ice and adding ice-cold PBS. Cells were pelleted and lysed following standard protocols
 and SMAD2 phosphorylation detected using an ELISA assay (Cell Signaling Technologies).
 The inhibition achieved by the concentration range of Adnectins was plotted using GraphPad
 Prism Software and normalizing data points to controls which gave 100% and 0% inhibition.
 The IC50 is defined as the concentration of Adnectin required to reach 50% inhibition of
 myostatin-induced SMAD2 phosphoiylation. The data presented in Table 11 indicate that
 Adnectins derived from affinity optimization of parental clones 1979_B06 and 2062_G02
 both potently and completely inhibited myostatin-induced pSMAD phosphorylation and
 demonstrated IC50 values ranging from 0.78 nM to 0.06 nM. This represents a greater than
 16-75 fold improvement in IC50 values over the parental clones 1979_B06 (IC50 = 12.8 nM)
 and 2062_G02 (IC50 = 59.1 nM).
Table 11. Inhibition of SMAD2 phosphorylation (pSMAD2) by anti-myostatin Adnectins
                                                 132

                                    pSmad2 Assay
                        Myo IC50 (nM)         Myo IC50 (nM)        Myo % inhibition
          ID                12-point             4-point               at 10 nM
      1979_B06
   (aka ATI-1133)           12.8+2.4
      2062_G02
   (aka ATI-1134)          59.1+16.2
      2522_C09                0.13
      2523_G06                0.78
      2524_CI                 0.14
      2524 D09                0.11
      2524_ElO                0.13
      2524_H05                0.13
      2524H111                0.11
      2525_BOI                0.14
      2525_D02                0.36
      2525_DO5                0.20
      2525_F07                0.27
      3006_AlO                                                             51
      3007_B08                                                             97
      3007_C09                                                             80
      3007_CIO                                                             76
      3008_A03                                                             87
      3008_B08                                                             90
      3008_D04                                                             92
      3008_FOI                                                             86
      3008_GOI                                                             98
      3008_G03                                                             91
      3115_D04                                     0.06
      3115_E06                                     0.06
      3116_A06                                     0.27
      3116_A07                                     0.06
      3116_COl                                     0.26
      3116_C06                                     0.73
      3116_H06                                     0.06
      3146_A08                                     0.78
Example 6 - SPR Affinity Measurements for Anti-myostatin Adnectins Adnectin binding
kinetics using SPR format A
Anti-human Fc antibody (Biacore/GE) was immobilized on a Biacore CM5 chip via
NHS/EDC coupling according to the manufacturer's instructions. ActR1Ib-Fc (R&D
                                          133

Systems) was captured on both reference and active flow cells, followed by capture of human
myostatin (R&D Systems), human BMP-1 1 (GDF-1 1; R&D Systems), or human Activin A
(R&D Systems) on active flow cells only (each solubilized according to manufacturer's
suggested protocol and diluted in HBSP running buffer). A concentration range of anti
myostatin Adnectin was applied across all flow cells in HBSP running buffer. Regeneration
of the chip surface between cycles was accomplished with two 30 second pulses of 3M
MgCl2. Kinetic traces of reference-subtracted sensorgrams were fit to a 1:1 binding model
using Biaevaluation software. A summary of Biacore kinetic data is shown in Table 12.
The data shown in Table 12 indicate that optimized progeny Adnectins bind myostatin
tightly, with KDs in the range of 0.06-1.47 nM, compared to parental Adnectins 1979_B06
and 2062_G02, which displayed KDS of 29 and 49 nM, respectively.
Upon PEGylation, there is some loss in myostatin affinity, with KDs ranging from 0.76 to
14.4 nM, although there is no effect of PEGylation on potency in the ARE-luciferase assay
(see Tables 8 and 9).
Adnectin selectivity over BMP-1 I ranges from entirely non-selective to up to 17-fold,
whereas binding to activin is either extremely weak or non-existent, suggesting high
selectivity over activin.
Adnectin binding kinetics using SPR format B (usefulfor Fc-formatted adnectins)
Human myostatin (R&D Systems), human BMP- II (GDF- 11; R&D Systems), or human
Activin A (R&D Systems) was solubilized according to manufacturer-suggested protocol
and immobilized on a Biacore CM5 chip at 1-10 pg/mL in acetate (pH 4.0 or 4.5) buffer
using standard NHS/EDC coupling. A concentration range of anti-myostatin Adnectins was
applied in HBSP running buffer. Regeneration of the chip surface between cycles was
accomplished with 60 seconds of 10-50 mM NaOH. Kinetic traces of reference-subtracted
sensorgrams were fit to a 1:1 binding model using Bia evaluation software. For Fc-formatted
Adnectins, interaction kinetics are driven by avidity of bivalent Fc and dimeric myostatin
even at low immobilization density. A summary of Biacore kinetic data is shown in Table 12.
The data shown in Table 12 indicate that some of the Adnectins run in this SPR format bind
myostatin and BMP-1 1 and also activin with similar affinities. The substantial selectivity
over activin in the ARE-luciferase assay, however, suggests the affinity for activin may be
artificially accentuated in this SPR assay format.
                                               134

Table 12. Summary of SPR kinetic data for anti-myostatin adnectins. Formats A and B are described in
Example 6.
 1979_06 (aka ATI-11303)           29               489                no binding      A, 25C
 2062G2 (aka ATI-1134)           48.8                697               no binding      A, 25C
 2522_C09                        0.51               0.45            no/weak binding    A, 25C
 2523_G6                         1.465              10.65              no binding      A,25C
 2524_CO                         0.62               0.67               no binding      A, 25C
 2524_D09                        0.64               0.81             weak binding      A,25C
 2524E1O                          1.34              1.42               no binding      A, 25C
 2524_H05                        0.88               0.87             weak binding      A, 25C
 2524_H                           1.12              1.22               no binding      A, 25C
 2525_B01                         1.29              1.58             weak binding      A, 25C
 2525_D02                        0.24               0.30            no/weak binding    A, 25C
 2525_D05                         1.28              1.99               no binding      A, 25C
 2525_F07                        0.79               0.97            no/weak binding    A, 25C
 2987_H07                        0.99               2.25             weak binding      A,25C
 ATI-1267                        0.057             0.065             weak binding      A, 25C
 ATI-1275                        0.15               0.15             weak binding      A.25C
 ATI-1277                        0.16               0.14             weak binding      A.25C
 ATI-1107                         128                -300              no binding      A,25C
 ATI-1266                        0.76               2.57             weak binding      A,25C
 ATI-1276                        4.18                8.8               no binding      A.25C
 ATI-1278                        6.04                3.3               no binding      A, 25C
 ATI-1338                         1.9                3.8                   4.6         B, 37C
 ATI-1339                         3.6                6.9                   6.5         B, 37C
 ATI-1359                         7.9              35.45             weak binding      A. 25C
 ATI-1375                         12.6              33.2             weak binding      A. 25C
 ATI-1376                        8.21               13.4             weak binding      A, 25C
 ATI-1377                        8.21               14.2             weak binding      A, 25C
 ATI-1378                         14.4              59.6             weak binding      A, 25C
 ATI-1379                         9.5               21.6             weak binding      A, 25C
 PRD-932                          1.43              ND                    ND           B,25C
 PRD-1474 (aka ATI
 1465)                           0.59                ND                   ND           B, 37C
                                                  135

Example 7- Solution Phase Affinity for Anti-myostatin Adnectins
The solution affinity of PRD-1474, an Fe-fused anti-myostatin Adnectin, for myostatin was
measured using a Kinetic Exclusion Assay (KinExA). Quadruplicate titrations of PRD-1474
were performed with myostatin at a monomer concentration of 2 nM (n=2), I nM (n=1), and
0.7 nM (n=1). The relative unbound myostatin concentration was measured by capture on an
ATI- 13 10 solid matrix (coupled to polyacrylamide beads via an engineered free cysteine)
followed by detection with a fluorescent-labeled construct of the myostatin co-receptor,
ActRIIB-Ig which can bind myostatin simultaneously with the Adnectin. ATI-1310 is a
related Adnectin which competes with PRD-1474 for binding to myostatin and allows for
capture of unbound myostatin. The global Kd analysis shown in Table 13 gives a Kd of 170
pM with a 95% confidence interval of 330-60 pM. The affinities of PRD-1 177 and ATI-1338
were also measured using the same assay format. Triplicate titrations of PRD- 1177 were
performed with myostatin at a monomer concentration of 1 nM (n=2) and 0.8 nM (n=1).
Triplicate titrations of ATI-1338 were performed with myostatin at a monomer concentration
of 5 nM (n=1), 1.6 nM (n=1), and 1.4 nM (n=1). These analyses indicate that PRD-1177
binds myostatin with a global Kd value of 250 pM and a 95% confidence interval of 340-130
pM (Table 13). ATI-1338 binds myostatin with a global Kd value of 850 pM and a 95%
confidence interval of 1400-330 pM.
Table 13. KinExA solution phase affinity measurements for binding myostatin.
       Adnectin                    Kd                       95% confidence interval:
                                                         Kd high                 Kd low
      PRD-1474                   170 pM                  330 pM                   60 pM
      PRD-1177                   250 pM                  340 pM                  130 pM
       ATI-1338                  850 pM                  1400 pM                 330 pM
Example 8 - Mutational Analysis of 3116_A06
Inorder to understand the relative tolerance of loop positions to mutation, two similar but
separate studies were conducted. The first was a traditional alanine scan, where the binding
and efficacy of discrete alanine mutations in the loops of Adnectin 3116_A06 (SEQ ID NO:
118) were assessed in biochemical and cell-based assays. The second study consisted of deep
mutational scanning in which we created a library of single-site mutations in the same
positions of 3116A06 (SEQ ID 118), but substituted each position with 20 of the possible
amino acids. These library components were then expressed as protein-mRNA fusions and
subjected to a single round of mRNA display (as described in Section IV), separating the
                                               136

library components associated with biotinylated myostatin from those remaining unbound
using streptavidin magnetic beads. In this approach, next-generation sequencing of input and
bound populations allowed for the determination of the relative enrichment/depletion of each
sequence, reflecting its intrinsic affinity for myostatin.
Alanine Scanning: PCR site-directed mutagenesis was used to create single site alanine
mutations in 3116_A06 (SEQ ID NO: 118) in the BC loop (residues 25-33), DE loop
(residues 55-58), and FG loop (residues 80-89). Clones were expressed in E. coli and purified
by HTPP as described in Example 1. Size exclusion chromatography (SEC, as described in
Example 2) confirmed that all alanine-substituted proteins were predominantly monomeric
(Table 14). Both ARE-luciferase (Example 3) and HTRF assays (Example 4) were
conducted. In the HTRF competition binding assay, potencies ranged from 1C50 = 1.5 nM to
>100 nM (Table 14). Most positions tolerated alanine substitution in the HTRF assay to some
degree, with the exception of Gly55, Arg56, and Gly57 of the DE loop, for which binding
was drastically reduced (IC50s >100 nM). A lesser effect occurred in positions Gly30 of the
BC loop, and Val80, Thr8l, and Tyr88 of the FG loop, which still showed binding but with a
>10-fold increase in IC50 relative to the parental sequence ("WT"). In the ARE-luciferase
cell-based assay, potency of mutants ranged from IC50      =  0.6 nM to >100 nM (Table 14). The
impact of alanine mutations was generally larger in the cell-based assay relative to the HTRF
assay. Gly55, Arg56, and Gly57 of the DE loop and Val80 and Tyr88 of the FG loop all
displayed drastically reduced potency in this assay, with IC50s >100 nM. A more moderate
effect was observed for BC positions Leu26, Pro27, His28, Gly30, and Asn33, and FG
positions Thr8l, Tyr85, and Leu86, which all had IC50s >10-fold that of the parent sequence.
Table 14: Biochemical characterization and cell-based potencies for alanine mutants of
3116_A06
                                                     Myostatin HTRF       Myostatin ARE-luc
                        Mutation            SEC*         IC50 (nM)            IC50 (nM)
                        WT parent             1             0.3                  0.6
                           S25A               1             0.8                  2.9
                           L26A               1             2.3                   16
                           P27A               1             1.0                   10
        BC
                           H28A               1             0.8                  6.2
                           Q29A               1             0.7                  1.5
                           G30A               2             5.1                  40
                                                 137

                           K31A             1              0.6                  2.2
                          N33A              1              2.0                  9.8
                          G55A              2             >100                 >100
                           R56A             1               55                 >100
        DE
                          G57A              1             >100                 >100
                          V58A              2              1.6                  3.3
                          V80A              1              4.0                 >100
                          T81A              1              4.9                   32
                          D82A              1              0.8                  1.8
                          T83A              1              1.3                  1.8
                          G84A              1              2.0                  3.6
        FG
                          Y85A              1              2.0                  5.5
                           L86A             2              1.4                   12
                           K87A             1              0.8                  2.0
                          Y88A              1               11                 >100
                           K89A             1              0.7                  1.6
*SEC 1: Highly monomeric; SEC 2: Mostly monomeric
Deep Mutational Scanning: High throughput sequencing was combined with protein
display to allow simultaneous measurement of the relative fitness of every possible single-site
loop mutant, on a scale that would be onerous for a traditional approach like that described
above (for review of "Deep Mutational Scanning" approaches, see Araya et al., Trends in
Biotechnology 29: 435-442, 2011; a similar approach is further exemplified in Forsyth et al.,
mAbs 5: 523-532, 2013).
Library Construction and Selection: Three separate libraries were created that contained
every possible single-site mutation in each of the three loops of 3 116_A06 (SEQ ID NO:
 118): BC loop (positions 25-33), DE loop (positions 55-58), and FG loop (positions 80-89).
For each loop, multiple oligonucleotides were designed that individually incorporated an
NNK codon at each position, where N=A, C, G, T and K=G, T. The use of these degenerate
codons allow for the encoding of all 20 amino acids (plus a stop codon) at the position where
the NNK is incorporated. The oligonucleotides were assembled via overlap extension PCR to
generate the full-length Adnectin libraries, where Lib-BC contained every single amino acid
BC loop mutation of 3116_A06, Lib-DE contained contained every single amino acid DE
loop mutation of 3116_A06, and Lib-FG contained every single amino acid FG loop mutation
of 3116_A06. The three libraries were expressed as mRNA-protein fusion molecules using
PROfusion according to Xu et al., Chemistry & Biology 9: 933-942, 2002. Lib-BC, Lib-DE,
and Lib-FG PROfusion molecules were separately selected against 3 nM biotinylated
                                               138

myostatin, and binding molecules were subsequently captured on streptavidin magnetic
beads. The binders were eluted from the beads using 100 mM KOH. The molecules eluted
from the beads represent variants of 3116_A06 that can still bind to myostatin, while those
present in the initial library but not found in the elution represent variants of 3116_A06 that
do not bind as well to myostatin.
NGS barcoding and mixing: Two populations, input (prior to myostatin binding) and binders
(eluted from beads post-selection), derived from each of the three libraries (Lib-BC, Lib-DE,
and Lib-FG) were collected and amplified separately. Each population was appended with a
5'- TruSeq Universal Adaptor, 3'- Truseq Adaptor 11, and a unique 6-nucleotide barcode by
PCR. A total of six barcoded populations were then individually quantified and mixed (Lib
BC: Lib-DE: Lib-FG = 9:4:10) based on the number of randomized residues in each loop, in
order to obtain similar numbers of sequences per randomized position statistically. The
pooled sample was sequenced by MiSeq 150bp paired-end (Illumina) next-generation
sequencing.
NGS data analysis: Forward-read sequences from next-generation sequencing were binned
according to population, mutation position, and identity of the mutated amino acid. All
sequences of poor quality and those containing multiple mutation sites were eliminated from
the analysis. Next, the frequency of each sequence in the post-selection population was
divided by its frequency in the input population to derive an enrichment ratio (ER).
Comparison of ERs of the parental sequences (WT, which functions as a positive control) and
sequences containing a stop codon (which function as a negative control, representing the
background noise of survival by chance) showed that the ratio of signal to background (S/B)
varied between the three loops, presumably because each loop library was put through
selections individually. For this reason, every sequence was normalized to the average stop
and average wt ERs for its own specific loop, to derive ERnorn
                                        EER _ER - ERstop
                                      E2norm
                                                 ERwt - Elstop
The deep mutational scan was validated by comparing the relative fitness of the single site
alanine mutants to the biochemical data from the traditional alanine scan. Overall, the
correlation was quite strong (Figure 8). NGS ERs define a profile of enrichment and
depletion of alanine mutants across the loops that correlates well with the impact observed in
HTRF and ARE-luciferase assays.
                                                 139

The biochemical HTRF IC50 was also plotted directly versus the NGS ER""" for each
alanine mutant, as shown in Figure 9.
Based on the alanine correlations, three categories were established into which all single site
amino acid mutations could be binned via their NGS enrichment ratios: Most preferable
mutations (ER" "">0.8), more preferable mutations (ER" "">0.5), and preferable mutations
(ER" "1> 3 standard deviations from the loop average ERsop). The lower limits of ER"'""
defining the latter category differed for the three loops: BC = 0.25; DE = 0.15; FG = 0.35. All
single site mutants in the loops of 3116_A06 were binned according to their normalized
enrichment ratios to determine the relative tolerance of each position to mutation (Table 15).
Table 15: Single site mutations in the loop sequences of 3116A06 that maintain binding to
myostatin
                                            More Preferable            Most Preferable
Position    Preferable Mutations            Mutations                  Mutations
25 X5 1     ACDFHIKLNQRSTVWY                CFISVWY                    FSW
26   X52    LMV                             L                          L
27   X53    ACDEIKLMNPQRSTVY                P                          P
                                            CDEFGHIKLMNQRSTVW
28          ACDEFGHIKLMNQRSTVWY             Y                          CFGIKLMNRSTVWY
                                            ACDEFGHIKLMNPQRSTV
29          ACDEFGHIKLMNPQRSTVWY            WY                         ACEFHIKLMPQRSTVY
30   X56    GS                              G                          G
31   X57    ACDEFGHIKLMNQRSTVWY             ACGHIKLMNQRSVWY            ACHKLMNRVWY
32   X58    ACGLMST                         AGLMS                      AGL
33   X59    ACFHNPQRSY                      CHNQSY                     HNQ
55          G                               G                          G
56          R                               R                          R
57          G                               G                          G
58   X6o    ACDEFIKLMNQSTV                  CEILMQTV                   CEILMV
80   X6 1   ACFILMQTVWY                     ACILMV                     IV
81   X62    ACFGHIKLMNQRSTVWY               CFHILMQRSTVWY              CFILMTVWY
                                            ACDEFGHILMNPQSTVW
82          ACDEFGHIKLMNPQRSTVWY            Y                          ACDEFGHILMNQSTV
                                            ACDEFGHIKLMNQRSTV
83          ACDEFGHIKLMNPQRSTVWY            WY                         ACDFGILMNQSTVWY
84   X65    ACDEFGHIKLMNQRSTVWY             ADEFGHILMNQSTVWY           AGSTW
85   X66    ACFHILMNPSTVWY                  CFILMPTVWY                 FIVWY
86   X67    ACEFHIKLMNQRSTVWY               CFHIKLMNQRTVWY             FHILMVWY
                                            ACEFGIKLMNPQRSTVW
87          ACDEFGHIKLMNPQRSTVWY            Y                          ACFGIKLMTVW
                                                140

88      X6 9 FWY                             WY                        WY
89      X7 0 ACDEFGHIKLMNPQRSTVWY            ACDEGHKLMNPQRSTV          AGKLMPQR
Using the full deep mutational scanning data, BC loop positions 25, 26, 27, 30, 32, and 33,
DE loop positions 55, 56, and 57, and FG loop positions 80 and 88 appear to be the most
conserved, where only a single or a few amino acid types at these positions maintain binding
to myostatin. On the other hand, other positions are highly tolerant to mutation, including BC
loop positions 28, 29, and 31, and FG loop positions 82, 83, and 87.
Example 9 - Evaluation of Anti-myostatin Adnectin Pharmacokinetics
To investigate the pharmacokinetic profile of Adnectins with different PEGylated formats,
anti-myostatin Adnectin 2987_H07 was formatted with 2-branched 40 KD PEG (ATI-1338),
4-branched 40 KD PEG (ATI-1339), and Bis 20 KD PEG (ATI-1341). Single dose studies of
subcutaneous administration with these three PEGylated Adnectins were conducted in
C57BL6 mice. Total drug concentrations were determined by ELISA assay. Bioanalytical
PK immunoassay for the quantitation of ATI-1338 used a standard sandwich format ELISA
assay, where the 1338 was captured with a monoclonal antibody to HIS-TAG protein, then
detected with a polyclonal anti-PEG antibody. As shown in Table 16, the two 40 KD
PEGylated formats, ATI- 1338 and ATI-1339, provided more prominent pharmacokinetic
enhancement (i.e., longer half life (t1/2) and higher dose-normalized exposure) than the Bis-20
KD PEGylated format, ATI-1341.
Table 16. Pharmacokinetic Comparison of Three PEGylated Formats for Adnectin
2987_H07
   PK Parameters                ATI-1338                 ATI-1339             ATI-1341
   Dose (mg/kg)                       5                     3.9                     4
    Cmax/Dose                       547                     370                   113
    (nM/(mg/kg))
    Tmax (h)                         24                      24                     4
   AUC/Dose                          32                      23                    2.1
    (nM*hr/(mg/kg))
   tm12  (h)                         25                      31                    16
Single dose studies following intravenous and subcutaneous administration of Fc-fused anti
myostatin Adnectins (PRD-1 177, PRD-1286, and PRD-1474) were conducted in C57BL6
mice to evaluate the effects of Fc-fusion on pharmacokinetic parameters. Total drug
                                                 141

concentrations were determined by ELISA assays. Bioanalytical PK immunoassay for the
quantitation of the Fc conjugates for PRD1 177, 1474, and 1286 all used a standard sandwich
format ELISA assay using ECL technology, where the 1177 was captured with a polyclonal
antibody to the scaffold Adnectin, then detected with an anti-human IgG antibody. As shown
in Table 17, all three Fc-fused Adnectins had a longer half life (58 -172 h) than the
PEGylated Adnectin ATI-1338 (25 h). A lower SC bioavailability likely reflects proteolysis
during interstitial and lymphatic transit of the biologic molecule. The SC bioavailability of
the Fc-fused Adnectins are within a reasonable range based on published literature (e.g.,
Richter et al., AAPSJ. 2012;14:559-70).
Table 17. Pharmacokinetic Comparison of Three Fec-fused anti-myostatin Adnectins
       PK Parameters               PRD-1177             PRD-1286           PRD-1474
       Dose (mg/kg)                     2                    2                  2
       Clearance                     0.017                 0.016              0.014
       (mL/min/kg)
       Vdss (L/kg)                   0.093                 0.190              0.054
       t1/2 (h)                        68                   172                 58
       SC Bioavailability             60%                  100%                94%
Example 10 - Mechanism of Anti-myostatin Adnectin Inhibition
Competitive ELISA: Competitive binding assays to evaluate the ability of anti-myostatin
Adnectins to compete with the ActRIIB receptor binding to myostatin were carried out using
competitive ELISA. Nunc Maxisorp plates were coated with 2 ptg/mL ActRIlb-Fc (R&D
Systems) in 0.2M sodium carbonate pH 9.6 buffer overnight at 4'C. After washing with
PBS-T (PBS containing 0.05% Tween-20), wells were blocked with OptElA buffer (BD
Biosciences) for I h at 25'C with shaking. Myostatin (10 nM; R&D Systems) was
preincubated with a concentration range of Adnectin or ActRIlb-Fc competitor (0.2 pM to 1
VM) in OptElA buffer for 1 h at 25'C with shaking. The blocked and coated assay plate was
washed with PBS-T, and then myostatin/competitor mixtures were added and incubated for
30 min at 25'C with shaking. The assay plate was washed with PBS-T, after which bound
myostatin was detected with 1:1000 biotinylated goat anti-myostatin polyclonal (R&D
Systems) diluted in OptElA, for 1 h at 25'C with shaking. After washing with PBS-T,
1:5000 Streptavidin-HRP (Thermo/Pierce) diluted in OptElA was added, followed by
                                                142

incubation for 30 min at 25'C with shaking. The assay plate was developed with TMB (BD
Biosciences), quenched with 2N sulfuric acid, and absorbance read at A450. As shown in
Fig. 10, ActRIIb-Fc in solution fully blocks myostatin binding to ActRIIb-Fc coated on the
plate, as expected. In contrast, however, PRD-1288 (differs from PRD-1474 only in the
linker sequence), PRD-1285, and PRD-1286 at concentrations up to 1 pM do not block
myostatin from binding ActRIIb.
Competition SPR: Competitive binding assays to evaluate the ability of anti-myostatin
Adnectins to compete with Type I and Type II receptors for binding to myostatin or BMP 11,
as a surrogate for myostatin, were also conducted using SPR on a Biacore T 100 instrument,
in two different experimental formats. In "SPR Fonnat A", sensor chip surfaces were
prepared by immobilizing 100 ug/ml protein A (Pierce) in 10 mM acetate pH 4.5 to 4500 RU
on a CM5 sensor chip (Biacore/GE Healthcare) using standard ethyl(dimethylaminopropyl)
carbodiimide (EDC) / N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) chemistry, with ethanolamine blocking.
ALK4-Fc (R&D Systems), ALK5-Fc (R&D Systems), ActRIIB-Fc (produced in house), an
anti-myostatin/BMP1 1 monoclonal antibody (mAb-A) which competes for binding to
myostatin with ActRIIB but does not compete with 3116A06 for binding to mysotatin
(produced in house), or Adnectin-Fec PRD-1474 at concentrations of 7-13 pig/ml were
captured via the Fc tail to surface densities of 1600 - 4300 RU using 60 s injections at 10
pl/min. Competition experiments were performed by flowing 100 nM myostatin (R&D
Systems) or BMP11 (R&D Systems) over these surfaces in the absence or presence of 200
nM Adnectin ATI-1523 at a flow rate of 30 pl/min with 180 s association and dissociation
times. The running buffer for immobilization and competition experiments was 10 mM
HEPES, 150 mM NaCl, 3 mM EDTA, and 0.05% v/v Surfactant P20, pH 7.4, and surfaces
were regenerated between cycles using two injections of 10 mM glycine pH 1.5 for 30 s at 30
pl/min.
In SPR Format A, BMP1 1 bound specifically to ALK4-Fc, ALK5-Fc, ActRIIB-Fc, mAb-A,
and PRD-1474 surfaces, whereas myostatin bound specifically to ActRIIB-Fc, mAb-A, and
PRD-1474, but not ALK4-Fc or ALK5-Fc. To evaluate the effect of ATI-1523 on myostatin
or BMP1 1 binding, the binding responses for each protein at the end of the 180 s association
phase were each normalized to 100%, and compared to the binding responses for myostatin
or BMPI I in the presence of ATI-1523 (Table 18). ATI-1523 completely blocked the binding
of myostatin or BMP1 1 to the control PRD-1474 surface, as expected. In the assays to assess
the ability of ATI-1523 to block the interaction of myostatin with ALK4-Fc or ALK5-Fc,
                                                143

BMP- 11, which also binds to ALK4-Fc and ALK5-Fc, was used as a surrogate for myostatin,
since myostatin alone does not bind significantly to ALK4-Fc and ALK5-Fc under this
experimental format. ATI-1523 significantly reduced the binding signal for BMP I1 toward
ALK4-Fc (98% reduction) and ALK5-Fc (69% reduction), suggesting that the Adnectin
competes for binding to myostatin with the Type I receptors. In contrast, an increased binding
response was observed for myostatin/ATI-1523 or BMP11 /ATI-1523 complexes on ActRIIB
Fc or mAb-A surfaces, suggesting that myostatin/ATI-1523 or BMP11 /ATI-1523 complexes
are able to bind to these surfaces, i.e., the Adnectin is non-competitive with ActRIIB-Fc or
mAb-A. The large increase in binding response (>1000% increase) for the myostatin/ATI
1523 complex on ActRIIB-Fc and mAb-A surfaces is consistent with the Adnectin having a
solubilizing effect on myostatin.
Table 18: SPR binding response for 100 nM myostatin or 100 nM BMP1 1 in the absence or
presence of 200 nM ATI-1523 on ALK4-Fc, ALK5-Fc, ActRIIB-Fc, mAb-A, or PRD-1474
surfaces.
          Analyte            ALK4-Fc        ALK5-Fc      ActRIIB-Fc   mAb-A     PRD-1474
        Myostatin                                           100%        100%      100%
  Myostatin + ATI-1523                                     1313%       1544%       -2%
          BMP11                100%           100%          100%        100%      100%
    BMP11+ ATI-1523             2%             31%          189%        258%       -1%
Adnectin competition using "SPR format B": The mechanism of action for anti-myostatin
Adnectins was further evaluated in "SPR Format B", where myostatin or BMPI 1 (10 ptg/ml
in 10 mM acetate pH 4.5) were directly immobilized on a CM5 sensor chip surface using
EDC/NHS coupling chemistry to a density of 985 RU (myostatin) or 530 RU (BMP1 1). Here,
the binding response for receptors ALK4-Fc (R&D Systems), ALK5-Fc (R&D Systems), or
ActRIIB-monomer (produced in house) injected alone (2 pM for 180 s at 30 pl/min), were
compared to the binding responses for these receptors following pre-binding of Adnectin-Fc
fusion PRD-1474 to the surface (1 pM for 480 s at 30 pl/min). The running buffer for
immobilization and competition experiments was 10 mM HEPES, 150 mM NaC1, 3 mM
EDTA, and 0.05% v/v Surfactant P20, pH 7.4, and surfaces were regenerated between cycles
using 4 injections of 50 mM NaOH for 15 s at 30 pl/min.
In the absence of PRD-1474, each receptor bound specifically to immobilized BMP1 1,
whereas only ALK5-Fc and ActRIIB-monomer, but not ALK4-Fc, bound to immobilized
myostatin. Pre-binding of PRD-1474 significantly reduced the binding signal for ALK4-Fc
                                                  144

towards BMP 11 (70% reduction) and also reduced the binding of ALK5-Fc towards
myostatin or BMP1 1 (35-41% reduction), but had a minimal impact on ActRIIB-monomer
binding to either myostatin or BMP11 surfaces, Table 19. These data, taken together with the
SPR competition data from "SPR Format A" (Table 18), the competitive ELISA data (Fig.
10), and the complete inhibition of myostatin signaling observed in the ARE-luciferase assay
(Fig. 11), demonstrate that the Adnectin mechanism of action is blockade of recruitment of
Type I signalling receptors (ALK4/5), and that the Adnectins do not compete with Type 11
receptor (ActRIIB) binding.
Table 19: SPR binding response for 1 ptM ALK4-Fc, ALK5-Fc, or ActRIIB-monomer on
immobilized myostatin or BMP I1 surfaces with or without pre-bound PRD-1474.
        Surface            Pre-binding          ALK4-Fc          ALK5-Fc           ActRIIB
                             PRD-1474                                             monomer
                                 no                               100%               100%
       Myostatin
                                yes                                55%               111%
                                 no               100%            100%               100%
         BMP11
                                yes                30%             65%                92%
Since these Adnectins represent the sequence families exemplified in the current invention,
and individual clones within a well-defined sequence family maintain the same binding site,
the sequences covered by the current invention act by blocking ALK4/5 recruitment to the
myostatin-ActRIIb complex.
The pharmacokinetic data further indicate that myostatin-Adnectin complex levels
accumulate with time and that these complexes bind to ActRIIb, thus acting as a dominant
negative inhibitor of signaling independent of free drug. This unique mechanism
distinguishes the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the present invention from anti-myostatin
antibodies described in the literature (e.g., US 7632499), and indicate that the anti-myostatin
Adnectins of the invention have increased activity.
Example 11: Mapping of Adnectin binding site on myostatin using HDX-MS:
The Adnectin binding site on myostatin was further evaluated using hydrogen-deuterium
exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS).
The hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) method probes protein
conformation and conformational dynamics in solution by monitoring the deuterium
exchange rate and extent in the backbone amide hydrogens. The level of HDX depends on the
                                                145

solvent accessibility of backbone amide hydrogens and the conformation of the protein. The
mass increase of the protein upon HDX can be precisely measured by MS. When this
technique is paired with enzymatic digestion, structural features at the peptide level can be
obtained, enabling differentiation of surface exposed peptides from those folded inside, or
from those sequestered at the interface of a protein-protein complex. Typically, the deuterium
labeling and subsequent quenching experiments are performed, followed by online pepsin
digestion, peptide separation, and MS analysis.
Because myostatin alone was found to have unsuitably low solubility for HDX-MS under
conditions of physiologically relevant pH (< 10 ptg/ml), we used an alternative strategy of
increasing myostatin solubility by complexing the protein with the Fab fragment from mAb
A (Fab-A), which was shown to be non-competitive with the Adnectin using the SPR
experiments described in Example 10. The oligomeric state of the HDX-MS samples were
characterized by size-exclusion chromatography coupled to a multi-angle laser light
scattering detector (SEC-MALS), where the MALS-determined mass of the myostatin/Fab-A
complex (- 120 kDa) was consistent with the expected stoichiometry of one myostatin
homodimer bound to two Fab-A molecules, and the MALS-determined mass of the
myostatin/Fab-A/3116_A06 complex (142 kDa) was consistent with the expected
stoichiometry of one myostatin homodimer bound to two Fab-A molecules plus two
3116_A06 molecules.
Prior to mapping the Adnectin binding site on myostatin recognized by Adnectin 3116_A06
by HDX-MS, non-deuterated experiments were performed to generate a list of common
peptic peptides for myostatin from myostatin/Fab-A (1:1 molar ratio at 30 pM each) and
myostatin/Fab-A/3116_A06 (1:1:1 molar ratio at 30 pM each) samples, achieving a sequence
coverage of 83.5% for myostatin. In this experiment, 10 mM phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) was
used during the labeling step, followed by adding quenching buffer (200 mM phosphate
buffer with 4M GdnCl and 0.5M TCEP, pH 2.5, 1:1, v/v). For Adnectin binding site mapping
experiments, 5 iL of each sample (myostatin/Fab-A or myostatin/Fab-A/3116_A06) was
mixed with 65 pL HDX labeling buffer (10 mM phosphate buffer in D20, pD 7.0) to start the
labeling reactions at room temperature (-25'C). The reactions were carried out for different
periods of time: 20 sec, 1 min, 10 min, 60 min, and 240 min. By the end of each labeling
reaction period, the reaction was quenched by adding quenching buffer (1:1, v/v) and the
quenched sample was injected into Waters HDX-MS system for analysis. The observed
                                               146

common peptic peptides were monitored for their deuterium uptake levels in the
absence/presence of 3116_A06.
Experimental data obtained from HDX-MS measurements indicate that Adnectin 3116_A06
recognizes a discontinuous Adnectin binding site comprised of two peptide regions in
myostatin:
         Region 1: LYFNGKEQIIYGKIPAM (85-10 1); SEQ ID NO: 329
         Region 2: PHTHLVHQANP (56-66); SEQ ID NO: 330
Based on relative deuterium uptake levels, the two peptide regions can be ranked as region 1
> 2, with region 1 having the most significant changes in deuterium uptake.
Example 12 -In silico docking of Adnectin 3116_A06 onto Myostatin
A computational approach was used to generate a structural model of the 3116_A06
myostatin complex that was consistent with the HDX-MS data (Fig. 13). Protein docking of
3116_A06 into the structure of human myostatin (PDB 3HH2 taken from the Protein Data
Bank, www.rcsb.org; Cash et al., EMBO J. 28:2662-2676, 2009) was performed using
ZDOCK (Chen and Wang, Proteins47:281-294, 2002) as implemented in Accelrys software
Discovery Studio v3.5 (Accelrys). The ZDOCK protocol utilizes rigid body docking of two
protein structures (ligand = 3116_A06 and receptor   =  myostatin). The docked poses were
filtered for complexes which contained conformations of 3116_A06 FG (residues Thr79 to
Tyr88) and BC (residues Ser25 to N33) loops. A preferred complex was selected based upon
complementarity of the interface residues coupled with correlation of the loop favorable
substitutions identified by Adnectin mutagenesis. Fig. 13A shows the ALK4 binding site and
the ActRIIB binding site mapped onto the myostatin structure (grey). Region I and Region
2, which were identified by the HDX-MS experiments as described in Example 11, are
indicated in black. Fig. 13B shows a preferred complex from docking, with the BC, DE and
FG loop of 3116A06 (black) rendered in stick, and Regions 1 and 2 of myostatin (grey)
represented in space-fill. Several residues that were identified as loop favorable mutations
show key contributions. For example, in the BC loop of 3116_A06, residues Ser25, Leu26,
and Pro27 are important as structural constraints for maintaining the overall loop
conformation. In contrast Ala32 fits into a small hydrophobic cleft formed at the complex
interface and the backbone of the residue forms hydrogen bonds with myostatin. The most
preferable substitutions at position 32 are Gly or Leu, and they are predicted to fit well in
place of the alanine. Similarly, Asn33 is involved with hydrogen bonds to nearby tryptophan
                                               147

residues of myostatin. The most preferable substitutions at position 33 are His and Gln,
which also contain sidechains that can contribute as hydrogen bond donors. Residues in the
DE loop are critical: the most favorable substitutions are limited to Gly55, Arg56, and Gly
57, and only conservative substitutions are preferable for Val58. In the model structure,
Arg56 is a critical residue contributing pi cation interactions with Y86 of myostatin in Region
I as well as additional hydrogen bonds with the backbone and side chain of other Region 1
residues. For many FG loop residues, the most preferable substitutions were conservative
replacements. One critical position identified was Tyr88, which has pi cation interactions
and pi-pi interactions with Y55 and other residues from Region 2 of myostatin. The FG loop
is also involved with several hydrophobic interactions with both Regions 1 and 2 identified
from the mutagenesis experiments. These calculations show good agreement with the HDX
MS and SPR experiment data.
Example 13 - In vivo mouse model of musculoskeletal efficacy
Male B6.SCID mice (9-13 weeks old, Jackson Laboratories, Bar Harbor, Maine) were housed
in a temperature-controlled room with a reversed 12 hour light/dark cycle. Water and
standard chow food were available ad libitum. Mice were randomized and distributed
between treatment groups to receive either control or test compounds of the present invention
based on body weight (about 20-22 g). In order to demonstrate in vivo efficacy of the
compounds of the present invention, the compounds were administered either weekly (Fc
fusion anti-myostatin adnectins) or twice a week (PEGylated anti-myostatin adnectins) by
subcutaneous injection. Test compounds were administered to the animals in Phosphate
Buffered Saline (PBS). Controls were treated with only reconstitution buffer. Test animals
(n=8-10 mice/group) were dosed over a 14 day-time frame subcutaneously, with e.g., 5, 6 or
10 mg/kg/week of a compound of the invention. Body weight measurements were recorded
pre-randomization, on randomization day, and two to three times a week during the treatment
periods and at the end of the study. Lower leg muscle mass was recorded from body
carcasses at the end of the study by quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI, Echo
Medical Systems, Tex) analysis. Test groups were compared to the control group. The results
show that anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention increased percent body weight from
baseline (Fig. 14) and had significant anabolic effects on skeletal muscle volume (Fig. 15),
compared to control mice (e.g., approximately a 7-10% increase in muscle volume compared
to control.
                                                148

Magnetic resonance imaging (MR1)
MRI for leg muscle volume measurements were performed on a Bruker PharmaScan 4.7
Tesla with a 16 cm bore (Bruker Biospin, Billerica, Ma. USA). A 62 mm volume coil was
used for the transmitter and receiver. After collection of localizer images of the lower leg, T2
weighted images were obtained using an axial slice plan. The fast spin-echo (RARE)
sequence consisted of a 900 Hermite pulse followed by a 1800 Hermite pulse with a TR/TE =
2000/23ms. Eleven axial slices were collected from the top of the knee to the ankle with a
matrix dimension of 256 x 128 data points. The field of view was 5 cm by 2.5 cm, with a 1.25
mm slice thickness and a RARE factor of 4 and 8 signal averages. Leg muscle volumes were
calculated by summation of all axial slice areas multiplied by the 1.25 mm slice thickness for
total muscle volume in each leg. Images were analyzed as an area average of the region-of
interests (ROI) by Image Sequence Analysis (ISA, Bruker Biospin, Billerica, Ma.). Manual
ROIs were drawn around the leg muscle excluding the skin and subcutaneous fat area. The
total average muscle volume for both legs is shown in Fig. 15.
MRI for heart volumes as a safety end point was also performed with the same MRI scanner.
After obtaining initial localizer images of the thoracic area, 9 axial images were collected
from the great vessels to the apex of the heart. Similar to the analysis of leg muscles, the axial
areas were added and multiplied by the slice thickness of 1.25 mm to obtain the total heart
volume for each animal. No significant change in heart volume was observed by MRI.
Statistics
Differences between groups were assessed using student's t-test 2 tailed paired analysis.
Example 14 - Efficacy of PRD-1474 on muscle growth in vivo
Male B6.SCID mice (n=10/group) were maintained and treated as described in Example 10,
with the exception that PRD-1474 was administered at the various doses as indicated in Fig.
16, and the duration of treatment was 28 days. PRD-1474 at 1 mg/kg showed a significant
 11.1% increase in lower leg muscle volume compared to the PBS control group (p<0.000 1).
Significant increases in lower leg muscle volume of 27.7%, 29.7%, and 32.8% were also
observed with PRD-1474 at 10 mg/kg, 30 mg/kg, and 100 mg/kg, respectively. No change in
heart volume was observed in all treatment dose groups relative to control. Data are
presented as mean  standard deviation. The various dosage groups were compared using
ANOVA. (*p< 0.0001; "not significant between groups).
                                                149

The data demonstrate that the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the invention are effective at
significantly lower dosages than myostatin inhibitors previously described (e.g., US 7632499,
J Clin. Onclo. 30(Suppl):Abstr. 2516, 2012). Thus, the anti-myostatin Adnectins of the
invention provide increased efficacy at lower dosages combined with decreased undesired
side effects, when administered alone or in combination with other myostatin inhibitors or
other drugs, for treating muscle wasting and metabolic diseases described herein.
EMBODIMENTS
1.       A polypeptide comprising a fibronectin type III tenth domain ( 10 Fn3) wherein the
'0 Fn3 has at least one loop selected from loop BC, DE, and FG with an altered amino acid
sequence relative to the sequence of the corresponding loop of the human      10Fn3 domain, and
wherein the polypeptide binds myostatin.
2.       The polypeptide of embodiment 1, wherein the polypeptide binds myostatin with a KD
of less than 500 nM.
3.       The polypeptide of embodiments 1 or 2, wherein the BC loop comprises an amino
acid sequence according to the formula X 1-L-P-X 2-X3-X 4-X 5 -X 6 -X 7 , wherein,
         (a) Xi is selected from the group consisting of S, T and Y;
         (b) X2 is selected from the group consisting of H, Y, N, R, F, G, S and T;
         (c) X3 is selected from the group consisting of A, P, Q, S, F, H, N and R;
         (d) X4 is selected from the group consisting of G and A;
         (e) Xs is selected from the group consisting of H, L, R, V, N, D, F, I and K;
         (f) X6 is selected from the group consisting of A, L, G, M, F, I and V; and
         (g) X 7 is selected from the group consisting of H and N.
4.       The polypeptide of embodiment 3, wherein X1 is S.
5.       The polypeptide of embodiments 3 or 4, wherein X2 is H or Y.
6.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 3-5, wherein X3 is A or P.
7.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 3-6, wherein X4 is G.
8.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 3-7, wherein X5 is H, L or R.
9.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 3-8, wherein X6 is A or L.
10.      The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 3-9, wherein X7 is H.
                                                150

11.       The polypeptide of embodiment 3, wherein the BC loop comprises an amino acid
sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 7, 11-21, 23-31, 34, and 36-38.
12.       The polypeptide of embodiment 11, wherein the BC loop comprises the amino acid
sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 34.
13.       The polypeptide of any one of the preceding embodiments, wherein the DE loop
comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula G-R-G-X 8 , wherein X8 is V or L.
14.       The polypeptide of any one of the preceding embodiments, wherein the DE loop
comprises an amino acid selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 39 and 42.
15.       The polypeptide of embodiment 14, wherein the DE loop comprises the amino acid
sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 39.
16.       The polypeptide of any one of the preceding embodiments, wherein the FG loop
comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 9 -Xio-X 1 -X 2 -X 3 -X 4 -Xi5
X 16-X 1 7-X 1 8 , wherein
          (a) X9 is selected from the group consisting of L, V and I;
          (b) X10 is selected from the group consisting of T and S;
          (c) X1 I is selected from the group consisting of K, R, A, G, S, D, H, N, T and P;
          (d) X12 is selected from the group consisting of S, T, A, E, H, K and N;
          (e) X13 is selected from the group consisting of K, G, Q, D, E, N, T and S;
          (f) X 14 is selected from the group consisting of V, 1, F, L, M, P, T and Y;
          (g) X15 is selected from the group consisting of 1, L and Y;
          (h) X 16 is selected from the group consisting of H, I, V, K, L, R, F, G, S and T;
          (i) X17 is selected from the group consisting of Y and H; and
          (j) Xi 8 is selected from the group consisting of K, M, L, R and V.
17.       The polypeptide of embodiment 16, wherein Xq is L or V.
18.       The polypeptide of embodiments 16 or 17, wherein Xio is T.
19.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 16-18, wherein Xni is K or R.
20.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 16-19, wherein X12 is S or T.
21.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 16-20, wherein X13 is K, G or        Q.
22.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 16-2 1, wherein X 14 is V or 1.
23.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 16-22, wherein Xis is I.
                                                  151

24.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 16-23, wherein X16 is H, I or V.
25.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 16-24, wherein X17 is Y.
26.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 16-25, wherein X1s is K or M.
27.       The polypeptide of any one of the preceding embodiments, wherein the FG loop
comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 46,
50-62, 64-72, 75-77, and 79.
28.       The polypeptide of embodiment 27, wherein the FG loop comprises the amino acid
sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 75.
29.       The polypeptide of embodiments I or 2, wherein the BC loop comprises an amino
acid sequence according to the formula X 19 -X 20-P-X 2 1-G-X 22 -A, wherein
          (a) X19 is selected from the group consisting of D, E, V and W;
          (b) X 2 0 is selected from the group consisting of A, S and V;
          (c) X 2 1 is selected from the group consisting of R, A, G, K and L; and
          (d) X 22 is selected from the group consisting of L and R.
30.       The polypeptide of embodiment 29, wherein X 19 is D.
31.       The polypeptide of embodiments 29 or 30, wherein X2 0 is A.
32.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 29-31, wherein X 2 1 is R or A.
33.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 29-32, wherein X 22 is L.
34.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 29-33, wherein the BC loop comprises an
amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 8-10, 22, 32, 33,
and 35.
35.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 1, 2 and 27-34, wherein the DE loop
comprises and amino acid sequence according to the formula X 23-G-R-G-X 24 , wherein
          (a) X 2 3 is selected from the group consisting of V, P, F, I and L; and
          (b) X 24 is selected from the group consisting of S, N and T.
36.       The polypeptide of embodiment 35, wherein the DE loop comprises and amino acid
sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 40, 41, and 43-45.
37.       The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 1, 2 and 29-36, wherein the FG loop
comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 2 5-X 2 6-R-X 27 -G-X 2 8-X2 9 -X 30
X 31 -X 32, wherein
                                                  152

        (a) X 2 5 is selected from the group consisting of I and V;
        (b) X26 is selected from the group consisting of F, D and Y;
        (c) X 27 is selected from the group consisting of D and T;
        (d) X 28 is selected from the group consisting of P, M, V and T;
        (e) X 2 9 is selected from the group consisting of V, L, N, R and S;
        (f) X 30 is selected from the group consisting of H, T, L, N, Q and S;
        (g) X31 is selected from the group consisting of F, W, Y, H and L; and
        (h) X 3 2 is selected from the group consisting of D, A and G.
38.     The polypeptide of embodiment 37, wherein X 2 5 is I.
39.     The polypeptide of embodiments 37 or 38, wherein X2 6 is F.
40.     The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 37-39, wherein X 27 is D.
41.     The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 37-40, wherein X 2 8 is P.
42.     The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 37-41, wherein X29 is V.
43.     The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 37-42, wherein X30 is H or T.
44.     The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 37-43, wherein X31 is F or W.
45.     The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 3 7-44, wherein X 3 2 is D.
46.     The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 37-45, wherein the FG loop comprises an
amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 47-49, 63, 73, 74,
and 78.
47.     The polypeptide of any one of the preceding embodiments, wherein the polypeptide
comprises a BC loop and a DE loop.
48.     The polypeptide of embodiment 47, wherein the BC loop comprises an amino acid
sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 7-38, and the DE loop
comprises and amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 39
45.
49.     The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 1-46, wherein the polypeptide comprises
a BC loop and FG loop.
50.     The polypeptide of embodiment 49, wherein the BC loop comprises an amino acid
sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 7-38, and the FG loop
comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 46-79.
                                                153

51.      The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 1-46, wherein the polypeptide comprises
a DE loop and an FG loop.
52.      The polypeptide of embodiment 51, wherein the DE loop comprises an amino acid
sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 39-45, and the FG loop
comprises and amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 46
79.
53.      The polypeptide of any one of the preceding embodiments, wherein the polypeptide
comprises a BC loop, a DE loop and an FG loop.
54.      The polypeptide of embodiment 53, wherein the BC loop comprises an amino acid
sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 7-38, the DE loop comprises an
amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 39-45, and the FG
loop comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs:
46-79.
55.      The polypeptide of embodiment 54, wherein the BC loop comprises the amino acid
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 34, the DE loop comprises SEQ ID NO: 39, and the FG loop
comprises SEQ ID NO: 75.
56.      The polypeptide of embodiment 55, wherein the BC loop sequences has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
or 6 amino acid substitutions; the DE loop has 1 amino acid substitution, and the FG loop has
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 amino acid substitutions.
57.      The polypeptide of embodiment 56, wherein
         (a)        the BC loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 33
L-P-X    4 -X 35 -X 36 -X 37 -X 38 -X 39 , wherein,
                    (i) X 33 is selected from the group consisting of T and Y;
                    (ii) X34 is selected from the group consisting of Y, N, R, F, G, S, and T;
                    (iii) X 3 s is selected from the group consisting of A, P, S, F, H, N, and R;
                    (iv) X 36 is A;
                    (v) X 37 is selected from the group consisting of H, L, R, V, N, D, F, and 1;
                    (vi) X3 8 is selected from the group consisting of L, G, M, F, 1, and V; and
                    (vii) X 39 is H;
         (b)        the DE loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula G-R
G-X 40 , wherein X 40 is L; and
                                                       154

        (c)      the FG loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula X4 1
X42-X43-X44-X4 5-X46-X47-X 48-X49-X 5 0, wherein
                 (i) X 4 1 is selected from the group consisting of L and I;
                 (ii) X 42 is S;
                 (iii) X 4 3 is selected from the group consisting of K, R, A, G, S, H, N, T, and P;
                 (iv) X44 is selected from the group consisting of S, A, E, H, K, and N;
                 (v) X 45 is selected from the group consisting of K, Q, D, E, N, T, and S;
                 (vi) X 46 is selected from the group consisting of V, I, F, L, M, P, and T;
                 (vii) X 47 is selected from the group consisting of I and Y;
                 (viii) X 48 is selected from the group consisting of H, I, V, L, R, F, G, S, and T;
                 (ix) X 49 is H; and
                 (x) X5o is selected from the group consisting of M, L, R, and V.
58.     The polypeptide of embodiments 1 or 2, wherein the BC loop comprises an amino
acid sequence according to the formula X 5 1-X 52-X 5 3-X 54-X 55-X 56 -X 57-X 58-X 59 , wherein,
        (a) X51 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, F, H, I, K, L, N,       Q, R, S, T,
V, W, and Y;
        (b) X5 2 is selected from the group consisting of L, M, and V;
        (c) X 53 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, I, K, L, M, N, P,      Q, R, S,
T, V, and Y;
        (d) X5 4 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,      Q,
R, S, T, V, W, and Y;
        (e) X55 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,
Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y;
        (f) X56 is selected from the group consisting of G and S;
        (g) X 57 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,      Q,
R, S, T, V, W, and Y;
        (h) X58 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, G, L, M, S, and T; and
        (i) X 59 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, H, N, P,    Q, R,   S, and Y.
59.     The polypeptide of embodiment 58, wherein:
        (a) X5 1 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, I, S, V, W, and Y;
        (b) X 52 is selected from the group consisting of L;
        (c) X 53 is selected from the group consisting of P;
                                                    155

        (d) X5 4 is selected from the group consisting of C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,  Q, R,
S, T, V, W, and Y;
        (e) X55 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M, N, P,
Q, R,  S, T, V, W, and Y;
        (f) X56 is selected from the group consisting of G;
        (g) X 57 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,  Q, R, S, V,
W, and Y;
        (h) X58 is selected from the group consisting of A, G, L, M, and S; and
        (i) X 59 is selected from the group consisting of C, H, N, Q,  S, and Y.
60.     The polypeptide of embodiment 59, wherein:
        (a) X5i is selected from the group consisting of F, S, and W;
        (b) X5 2 is selected from the group consisting of L;
        (c) X 53 is selected from the group consisting of P;
        (d) X5 4 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, G, I, K, L, M, N, R, S, T, V, W,
and Y;
        (e) X55 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, E, F, H, 1, K, L, M, P,  Q, R, S,
T, V, and Y;
        (f) X 56 is selected from the group consisting of G;
        (g) X 57 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, H, K, L, M, N, R, V, W, and Y;
        (h) X58 is selected from the group consisting of A, G, and L; and
        (i) X59 is selected from the group consisting of H, N, and   Q.
61.     The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 58-60, wherein X 5 1 is S.
62.     The polypeptide of embodiment 58, wherein X5 2 is L.
63.     The polypeptide of embodiment 58, wherein X 53 is P
64.     The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 58, 59, and 61-63, wherein Xs4 is H.
65.     The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 58-64, wherein X55 is Q.
66.     The polypeptide of embodiment 58, wherein X56 is G.
67.     The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 58-66, wherein X57 is K.
68.     The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 58-67, wherein X         8 is A.
69.     The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 58-68, wherein X5 9 is N.
                                                156

70.    The polypeptide of embodiment 58, wherein the BC loop comprises an amino acid
sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 7, 11-21, 23-31, 34, and 36-38.
71.    The polypeptide of embodiment 70, wherein the BC loop comprises the amino acid
sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 34.
72.    The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 58-71, wherein the DE loop comprises an
amino acid sequence according to the formula G-R-G-X6 0 , wherein X6 0 is A, C, D, E, F, I, K,
L, M, N, Q, S, T, and V.
73.    The polypeptide of embodiment 72, wherein X60 is C, E, 1, L, M,            Q, T, and    V.
74.    The polypeptide of embodiment 73, wherein X60 is C, E, 1, L, M, and V.
75.    The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 72-74, wherein X60 is V.
76.    The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 58-75, wherein the DE loop comprises an
amino acid selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 39 and 42.
77.    The polypeptide of embodiment 76 wherein the DE loop comprises the amino acid
sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 39.
78.    The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 58-77, wherein the FG loop comprises an
amino acid sequence according to the formula X 6 1 -X 62 -X 63 -X 64 -X 65 -X 66 -X 67 -X 68 -X 69-X 70 ,
wherein
       (a) X 6 1 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, I, L, M, Q, T, V, W, and Y;
       (b) X 62 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M, N,           Q, R, S,
       T, V, W, and Y;
       (c) X 63 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,
       Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y;
       (d) X 64 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M, N, P,
       Q, R,   S, T, V, W, and Y;
       (e) X65 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,              Q,
       R, S,T, V, W, and Y;
       (f) X66 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, H, 1, L, M, N, P, s, T, V, W,
       and Y;
       (g) X 67 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, E, F, H, I, K, L, M, N,           Q, R, S,
       T, V, W, and Y;
                                               157

        (h) X68 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,
        Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y;
        (i) X 69 is selected from the group consisting of F, W, and Y; and
        (j) X 7 0 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P,
        Q, R,    S, T, V, W, and Y.
79.     The polypeptide of embodiment 78, wherein:
        (a) X 6 1 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, I, L, M, and V;
        (b) X 62 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, H, I, L, M,  Q, R, S, T, V, W, and
        Y;
        (c) X 63 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, L, M, N, P,   Q,
        S, T, V, W, and Y;
        (d) X6 4 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M, N,   Q,
        R, S, T, V, W, and Y;
        (e) X65 is selected from the group consisting of A, D, E, F, G, H, I, L, M, N,    Q, S, T,
        V, W, and Y;
        (f) X66 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, I, L, M, P, T, V, W, and Y;
        (g) X 67 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, H, 1, K, L, M, N,   Q, R, T, V,  W,
        and Y;
        (h) X68 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, E, F, G, 1, K, L, M, N, P,    Q, R,
        S, T, V, W, and Y;
        (i) X 69 is selected from the group consisting of W and Y; and
        (j) X 7 0 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, G, H, K, L, M, N, P,  Q, R,
S, T, and V.
80.     The polypeptide of embodiment 79, wherein:
        (a) X6 1 is selected from the group consisting of I and V;
        (b) X 62 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, 1, L, M, T, V, W, and Y;
        (c) X 63 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, L, M, N,   Q, S,
        T, and V;
        (d) X6 4 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, F, G, I, L, M, N,   Q, S, T, V,
        W, and Y;
        (e) X65 is selected from the group consisting of A, G, S, T, and W;
        (f) X66 is selected from the group consisting of F, I, V, W, and Y;
        (g) X 67 is selected from the group consisting of F, H, I, L, M, V, W, and Y;
                                                 158

         (h) X68 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, G, 1, K, L, M, T, V, and W;
         (i) X69 is selected from the group consisting of W and Y; and
         (j) X 70 is selected from the group consisting of A, G, K, L, M, P,     Q, and R.
81.      The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 78-80, wherein X61 is V.
82.      The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 78-8 1, wherein X 62 is T.
83.      The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 78-82, wherein X63 is D.
84.      The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 78-83, wherein X6 4 is T.
85.      The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 78-84, wherein X65 is G.
86.      The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 78-85, wherein X(6 is Y.
87.      The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 78-86, wherein X 67 is L.
88.      The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 78-87, wherein X68 is K.
89.      The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 78-88, wherein X 69 is Y.
90.      The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 78-89, wherein X70 is K.
91.      The polypeptide of embodiment 1 or 2, wherein
         (a)      the BC loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula X 5 1
X 52-X 53-X 54 -X55-X56-X 57-X 58-X 59 , wherein,
                  (i) X 5 1 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, F, H, I, K, L, N, Q, R,
S, T, V, W, and Y;
                  (ii) X 52 is selected from the group consisting of L, M, and V;
                  (iii) X 53 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, 1, K, L, M, N, P,
Q, R, S, T, V, and Y;
                  (iv) X5 4 is A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M, N,  Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y;
                  (v) X55 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M,
N, P, Q, R,   S, T, V, W, and Y;
                  (vi) X 56 is selected from the group consisting of G and S;
                  (vii) X 57 is A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, Q, R,  S, T, V, W, and Y;
                  (viii) X58 is A, C, G, L, M, S, and T; and
                  (ix) X59 is A, C, F, H, N, P,   Q, R, S, and Y;
                                                    159

         (b)      the DE loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula G-R
G-Xo, wherein X60 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, I, K, L, M, N,         Q,
S, T, and V; and
         (c)      the FG loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula X6 1
X 62-X 63-X 64 -X 65-X 6 6-X 6 7-X 68-X 69 -X 70 , wherein
                  (i) X61 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, I, L, M,  Q, T, V,  W,
         and Y;
                  (ii) X6 2 is A, C, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y;
                  (iii) X 63 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L,
         M, N, P,    Q, R, S, T, V,    W, and Y;
                  (iv) X 6 4 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K, L,
         M, N, P,    Q, R, S, T, V,    W, and Y;
                  (v) X6s is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M,
         N,  Q, R, S,   T, V, W, and Y;
                  (vi) X66 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, H, 1, L, M, N, P, S, T,
         V, W, and Y;
                  (vii) X6 7 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, E, F, H, 1, K, L, M, N,
         Q, R,   S, T, V, W, and Y;
                  (viii) X68 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L,
         M, N, P,    Q, R, S,    T, V, W, and Y;
                  (ix) X69 is selected from the group consisting of F, W, and Y; and
                  (x) X70 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M,
         N, P, Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y.
92.      The polypeptide of embodiment 91, wherein:
(a)               (i) X51 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, 1, S, V, W, and Y;
                  (ii) X 52 is L;
                  (iii) X53 is P;
                  (iv) X5 4 is selected from the group consisting of C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M,
N,  Q, R, S, T, V,    W, and Y;
                  (v) X55 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M,
N, P, Q, R,   S, T, V, W, and Y;
                  (vi) X56 is G;
                                                         160

                (vii) X 57 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,   Q,
R, S, V, W, and Y;
                (viii) X 58 is selected from the group consisting of A, G, L, M, and S; and
                (ix) X59 is selected from the group consisting of C, H, N,    Q, S, and Y;
        (b)     X6 0 is selected from the group consisting of C, E, I,  L, M, Q, T, and V;  and
        (c)     (i) X61 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, I, L, M, and V;
                (ii) X6 2 is C, F, H, I, L, M, Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y;
                (iii) X 63 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, L, M,
        N, P, Q, S,   T, V, W, and Y;
                (iv) X 6 4 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L,
        M, N,  Q, R,   S, T, V, W, and Y;
                (v) X65 is selected from the group consisting of A, D, E, F, G, H, I, L, M, N,
        Q, S, T, V, W, and Y;
                (vi) X 66 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, I, L, M, P, T, V, W, and
        Y;
                (vii) X 67 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, H, I, K, L, M, N,   Q, R,
        T, V, W, and Y;
                (viii) X68 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, E, F, G, I, K, L, M, N,
        P, Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y;
                (ix) X69 is selected from the group consisting of W and Y; and
                (x) X 7 0 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M,
        N, P, Q, R,   S, T, V, W, and Y.
93.     The polypeptide of embodiment 92, wherein:
(a)             (i) X5 1 is selected from the group consisting of F, S, and W;
                (ii) X52 is L;
                (iii) X 53 is P;
                (iv) X 5 4 is selected from the group consisting of C, F, G, I, K, L, M, N, R, S,
T, V, W, and Y;
                (v) X55 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, E, F, H, I, K, L, M, P,    Q,
R, S, T, V, and Y;
                (vi) X56 is G;
                (vii) X 57 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, H, K, L, M, N, R, V,
W, and Y;
                                                  161

           (viii) X58 is selected from the group consisting of A, G, and L;
           (ix) X 59 is selected from the group consisting of H, N, and  Q;
    (b)    X60 is selected from the group consisting of C, E, I, L, M, and V; and
    (c)    (i) X 6 1 is selected from the group consisting of I and V;
           (ii) X6 2 is C, F, I, L, M, T, V, W, and Y;
           (iii) X 63 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, L, M,
    N, Q, S, T, and V;
           (iv) X6 4 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, F, G, I, L, M, N,  Q,
    S, T, V, W, and Y;
           (v) X65 is selected from the group consisting of A, G, S, T, and W;
           (vi) X66 is selected from the group consisting of F, I, V, W, and Y;
           (vii) X6 7 is selected from the group consisting of F, H, 1, L, M, V, W, and Y;
           (viii) X68 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, G, I, K, L, M, T, V,
    and W;
           (ix) X 69 is selected from the group consisting of W and Y; and
           (x) X 70 is selected from the group consisting of A, G, K, L, M, P,   Q, and R.
94. The polypeptide of embodiment 92, wherein:
(a)        (i) X5 1 is S;
           (ii) X52 is L;
           (iii) X 53 is P;
           (iv) X5 4 is H;
           (v) X55 is   Q;
           (vi) X5 6 is G; and
           (vii) X 57 is K;
           (viii) X58 is A; and
           (ix) X59 is N;
    (b)    X60 is V; and
    (c)    (i) X 6 1 is V;
           (ii) X6 2 is T;
           (iii) X63 is D;
           (iv) X 64 is T;
           (v) X65 is G;
           (vi) X66 is Y;
                                             162

                (vii) X6 7 is L;
                (viii) X 68 is K;
                (ix) X69 is Y; and
                (x) X 7o is K.
95.     The polypeptide of embodiment 1 or 2, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to the non-BC,
DE, and FG loop regions of SEQ ID NO: 118, 273, 281, or 331.
96.     The polypeptide of embodiment 1 or 2, wherein the BC, DE, or FG loop amino acid
sequence is at least 80% identical to any one of SEQ ID NOs: 7-38, 39-45, and 46-79,
respectively.
97.     The polypeptide of embodiment 1, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino acid
sequence that is at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, or 99% identical to any one of SEQ ID
NOs: 80-123, 228-239, 252-273, 281, and 331.
98.     The polypeptide of embodiment 97, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino acid
sequence that is at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, or 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 331.
99.     The polypeptide of embodiment 97, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino acid
sequence that is at least 80%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, or 99% identical to SEQ ID NO:
273.
100.    The polypeptide of embodiment 1, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino acid
sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 80-123, 228-239, 252-273, 281,
and 331.
 101.   The polypeptide of embodiment 100, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 331.
102.    The polypeptide of embodiment 101, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 273.
103.    The polypeptide of any one of the preceding embodiments, wherein the Adnectin
binding site on myostatin is discontinuous.
 104.   The polypeptide of embodiment 103, wherein the polypeptides binds to a region
within amino acids 56-66.
                                              163

105.    The polypeptide of embodiment 103, wherein the polypeptides binds to a region
within amino acids 85-101.
106.    The polypeptide of embodiment 103, wherein the polypeptide binds to a region within
amino acids 85-101 and 56-66 of SEQ ID NO: 3.
107.    The polypeptide of any one of the preceding embodiments, wherein the polypeptide
does not compete for binding to myostatin with ActRIIB.
108.    The polypeptide of any one of the preceding embodiments, wherein the polypeptide
competes for binding to myostatin with ALK4 and/or ALK5.
109.    The polypeptide of any one of the preceding embodiments, further comprising one or
more pharmacokinetic (PK) moieties selected from the group consisting of polyethylene
glycol, sialic acid, Fc, Fec fragment, transferrin, serum albumin, a serum albumin binding
protein, and a serum immunoglobulin binding protein.
110.    The polypeptide of embodiment 109, wherein the PK moiety and the polypeptide are
linked via at least one disulfide bond, a peptide bond, a polypeptide, a polymeric sugar or a
polyethylene glycol moiety.
111.    The polypeptide of embodiment 109, wherein the PK moiety and the polypeptide are
linked via a linker with an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID
NOs: 181-227.
112.    The polypeptide of embodiment 109, wherein the serum albumin binding protein
comprises a fibronectin type Ill tenth domain ( 10 Fn3).
113.    The polypeptide of embodiment 109, wherein the       10Fn3 domain binds HSA.
114.    The polypeptide of embodiment 109, wherein the PK moiety is Fc.
115.    The polypeptide of embodiment 114, wherein the Fc is at the N-terminus of the
polypeptide.
116.    The polypeptide of embodiment 115, wherein the Fc is at the C-terminus of the
polypeptide.
117.    The polypeptide of any one of embodiments 114-116, wherein the polypeptide forms
a dimer.
118.    The polypeptide of embodiment 109, wherein the PK moiety is polyethylene glycol.
                                                  164

119.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising a polypeptide of any one of the preceding
embodiments, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
120.    The composition of embodiment 118, wherein the composition is essentially
endotoxin-free.
121.    An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding the polypeptide of any one of
embodiments 1-116.
122.    The isolated nucleic acid molecule of embodiment 121, wherein the nucleic acid
molecule has a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 124-167, 240
251, and 284-305.
123.    An expression vector comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding the polypeptide of
any one of embodiments 1-116.
124.    A cell comprising a nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide of any one of embodiments
1-115.
125.    A method of producing a myostatin-binding polypeptide comprising culturing the cell
of embodiment 124 under conditions suitable for expressing the polypeptide, and purifying
the polypeptide.
 126.   A method of attenuating or inhibiting a myostatin-related disease or disorder in a
subject comprising administering an effective amount of the polypeptide or composition
according to any one of embodiments 1-120.
127.    The method of embodiment 126, wherein the disease or disorder is selected from the
group consisting of: muscular dystrophy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, congestive
obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic heart failure, cancer, AIDs, renal failure, chronic
kidney disease, uremia, rheumatoid arthritis, sarcopenia, muscle wasting due to prolonged
bedrest, spinal cord injury, stroke, bone fracture, aging, diabetes, obesity, hyperglycemia,
cachexia, osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, myocardial infarction, and fibrosis.
128.    A method of attenuating or inhibiting a disorder associated with degeneration or
wasting of muscle in a subject, comprising administering an effective amount of the
polypeptide or composition of any one of embodiments 1-120.
129.    The method of embodiment 128, wherein the disorder is selected from the group
consisting of muscular dystrophy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, congestive obstructive
pulmonary disease, chronic heart failure, cancer, AIDs, cachexia, renal failure, chronic
                                                165

kidney disease, uremia, rheumatoid arthritis, sarcopenia, muscle wasting due to prolonged
bedrest, spinal cord injury, traumatic injury, stroke, bone fracture, and aging.
130.    The method of embodiment 129, wherein the disease is muscular dystrophy.
131.    The method of embodiment 128, wherein administration of the polypeptide to the
subject
results in at least one of the following biological effects:
        (a) an increase in muscle mass;
        (b) an increase in the number of muscle cells;
        (c) an increase in the size of muscle cells; and
        (d) an increase in muscle strength.
132.    A method of attenuating or inhibiting a metabolic disorder in a subject, comprising
administering an effective amount of the polypeptide or composition of any one of
embodiments 1-120.
133.    The method of embodiment 132, wherein the subject has a disease or disorder
selected from the group consisting of diabetes, hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinaemia,
hyperlipidaemia, insulin resistance, impaired glucose metabolism, obesity, and metabolic
syndrome .
134.    The method of embodiment 132, wherein the disease or disorder is Type 11 diabetes.
135.    The method of embodiment 134, further comprising administration of a second
therapeutic composition for treating diabetes.
 136.   The method of any one of embodiments 131-135, wherein administration of the
polypeptide to the subject results in at least one of the following biological effects:
        (a) an increase in insulin sensitivity;
        (b) an increase in glucose uptake by cells in the subject;
        (c) a decrease in blood glucose levels; and
        (d) a decrease in body fat.
137.    A method for enhancing lean muscle mass in a subject comprising administering an
effective amount of the polypeptide or composition of any one of embodiments 1-120.
138.    A method of increasing the ratio of lean muscle mass to fat in a subject comprising
administering an effective amount of the polypeptide or composition of any one of
embodiments 1-120.
                                                 166

139.   A kit comprising the polypeptide or composition of any one of embodiments 1-120,
and instructions for use.
140.   A method of detecting or measuring myostatin in a sample comprising contacting the
sample with the polypeptide of any one of embodiments 1-117, and detecting or measuring
binding of the polypeptide to myostatin.
                                            167

We claim:
1.       A polypeptide comprising a fibronectin type III tenth domain ( 10Fn3) wherein the
1oFn3  has at least one loop selected from loop BC, DE, and FG with an altered amino acid
sequence relative to the sequence of the corresponding loop of the human             10Fn3 domain, and
wherein the polypeptide binds myostatin with a KD of less than 500 nM.
2.       The polypeptide of claim 1, wherein
         (a)      the BC loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula X5 1
X 52-X 53-X 54 -X 55-X 56-X 57-X 58-X 59, as shown in Table 15, wherein,
                  (i) X 5 1 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, F, H, I, K, L, N,    Q, R,
S, T, V, W, and Y;
                  (ii) X52 is selected from the group consisting of L, M, and V;
                  (iii) X 53 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, 1, K, L, M, N, P,
Q, R, S, T, V, and Y;
                  (iv) X5 4 is A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N,     Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y;
                  (v) X55 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M,
N, P,  Q, R,  S, T, V, W, and Y;
                  (vi) X 56 is selected from the group consisting of G and S;
                  (vii) X 57 is A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M, N,    Q, R, S, T, V,  W, and Y;
                  (viii) X58 is A, C, G, L, M, S, and T; and
                  (ix) X59 is A, C, F, H, N, P,      Q, R, S, and Y; and/or
         (b)      the DE loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula G-R
G-X 3 o, as shown in Table 15, wherein X60 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E,
F, I, K, L, M, N,    Q, S, T, and V;    and/or
         (c)      the FG loop comprises an amino acid sequence according to the formula X6 1
X 62-X 63-X 64 -X 65-X 6 6-X 67-X 68-X 69-X 70 , as shown in Table 15, wherein
                  (i) X61 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, I, L, M,      Q, T, V, W,
         and Y;
                  (ii) X6 2 is A, C, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M, N,    Q, R, S, T, V,  W, and Y;
                  (iii) X 63 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L,
         M, N, P,    Q, R, S, T, V,   W, and Y;
                  (iv) X 6 4 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L,
         M, N, P,    Q, R, S, T, V,   W, and Y;
                                                       168

                (v) X65 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M,
        N,  Q, R, S, T, V, W,   and Y;
                (vi) X66 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, F, H, 1, L, M, N, P, S, T,
        V, W, and Y;
                (vii) X6 7 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, E, F, H, 1, K, L, M, N,
        Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y;
                (viii) X68 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L,
        M, N, P,  Q, R, S, T, V,   W, and Y;
                (ix) X 69 is selected from the group consisting of F, W, and Y; and
                (x) X 70 is selected from the group consisting of A, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, K, L, M,
        N, P,  Q, R, S, T, V, W, and Y.
3.      The polypeptide of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the BC loop comprises
an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 34, 7, 11-21, 23
31, and 36-38.
4.      The polypeptide of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the DE loop comprises
an amino acid selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 39 and 42.
5.      The polypeptide of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the FG loop comprises
an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 75, 46, 50-62,
64-72, 76, 77, and 79.
6.      The polypeptide of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the BC loop comprises
the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 34, the DE loop comprises SEQ ID NO: 39, and the
FG loop comprises SEQ ID NO: 75.
7.      The polypeptide of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the polypeptide
comprises an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100%
identical to the non-BC, DE, and FG loop regions of SEQ ID NO: 331, 273, 281, or 118.
8.      The polypeptide of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the polypeptide
comprises an amino acid sequence that is at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%,       9 8 %, 99%  identical
to any one of SEQ ID NOs: 331, 273, 80-123, 228-239, 252-272, or 281.
                                                 169

9.      The polypeptide of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the polypeptides binds to
a region within amino acids 56-66 of SEQ ID NO: 3.
10.     The polypeptide of claim 9, wherein the polypeptide binds to a region within amino
acids 85-101 and 56-66 of SEQ ID NO: 3.
11.     The polypeptide of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the polypeptide does not
compete for binding to myostatin with ActRIIB.
12.     The polypeptide of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the polypeptide
competes for binding to myostatin with ALK4 and/or ALK5.
13.     The polypeptide of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising one or more
pharmacokinetic (PK) moieties selected from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol,
sialic acid, Fc, Fc fragment, transferrin, serum albumin, a serum albumin binding protein, and
a serum immunoglobulin binding protein.
14.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising a polypeptide of any one of the preceding
claims, and a carrier.
15.     An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding the polypeptide of any one of claims 1
13.
16.     A cell comprising a nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide of any one of claims 1-13.
 17.    A method of attenuating or inhibiting a myostatin-related disease or disorder in a
subject comprising administering an effective amount of the polypeptide or composition
according to any one of claims 1-14.
18.     The method of claim 17, wherein administration of the polypeptide to the subject
results in at least one of the following biological effects:
        (a) an increase in muscle mass;
        (b) an increase in the number of muscle cells;
                                                170

        (c) an increase in the size of muscle cells; and
        (d) an increase in muscle strength.
19.     The method of claim 17, wherein administration of the polypeptide to the subject
results in at least one of the following biological effects:
        (a) an increase in insulin sensitivity;
        (b) an increase in glucose uptake by cells in the subject;
        (c) a decrease in blood glucose levels; and
        (d) a decrease in body fat.
20.     A method of detecting or measuring myostatin in a sample comprising contacting the
sample with the polypeptide of any one of claims 1-13, and detecting or measuring binding of
the polypeptide to myostatin.
                                                171

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    1/17
Fig. 1

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    2/17
Fig. 2

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    3/17
Fig. 3

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 4                              4/17

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 5                              5/17

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    6/17
Fig. 6

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 7                              7/17

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     10/17
Fig. 10

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     11/17
Fig. 11

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      14/17
Fig. 13B

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     16/17
Fig. 15

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
              <120>   FIBRONECTIN BASED SCAFFOLD DOMAIN PROTEINS THAT BIND TO MYOSTATIN
              <130>   MXI-514PC
              <150>   US 61/780,005
<removed-apn>
              <151>   2013-03-13
              <150>   US 61/700,697
              <151>   2012-09-13
              <160>   331
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   375
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   1
              Met Gln Lys Leu Gln Leu Cys Val Tyr Ile Tyr Leu Phe Met Leu Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Ala Gly Pro Val Asp Leu Asn Glu Asn Ser Glu Gln Lys Glu Asn
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Glu Lys Glu Gly Leu Cys Asn Ala Cys Thr Trp Arg Gln Asn Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Lys Ser Ser Arg Ile Glu Ala Ile Lys Ile Gln Ile Leu Ser Lys Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Arg Leu Glu Thr Ala Pro Asn Ile Ser Lys Asp Val Ile Arg Gln Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Pro Lys Ala Pro Pro Leu Arg Glu Leu Ile Asp Gln Tyr Asp Val
                              85                  90                  95
              Gln Arg Asp Asp Ser Ser Asp Gly Ser Leu Glu Asp Asp Asp Tyr His
                          100                 105                 110
                                                     Page 1

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Ala Thr Thr Glu Thr Ile Ile Thr Met Pro Thr Glu Ser Asp Phe Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Met Gln Val Asp Gly Lys Pro Lys Cys Cys Phe Phe Lys Phe Ser Ser
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Lys Ile Gln Tyr Asn Lys Val Val Lys Ala Gln Leu Trp Ile Tyr Leu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Arg Pro Val Glu Thr Pro Thr Thr Val Phe Val Gln Ile Leu Arg Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Ile Lys Pro Met Lys Asp Gly Thr Arg Tyr Thr Gly Ile Arg Ser Leu
                          180                 185                 190
              Lys Leu Asp Met Asn Pro Gly Thr Gly Ile Trp Gln Ser Ile Asp Val
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Thr Val Leu Gln Asn Trp Leu Lys Gln Pro Glu Ser Asn Leu Gly
                  210                 215                 220
              Ile Glu Ile Lys Ala Leu Asp Glu Asn Gly His Asp Leu Ala Val Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Phe Pro Gly Pro Gly Glu Asp Gly Leu Asn Pro Phe Leu Glu Val Lys
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Thr Asp Thr Pro Lys Arg Ser Arg Arg Asp Phe Gly Leu Asp Cys
                          260                 265                 270
              Asp Glu His Ser Thr Glu Ser Arg Cys Cys Arg Tyr Pro Leu Thr Val
                      275                 280                 285
              Asp Phe Glu Ala Phe Gly Trp Asp Trp Ile Ile Ala Pro Lys Arg Tyr
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Ala Asn Tyr Cys Ser Gly Glu Cys Glu Phe Val Phe Leu Gln Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320
                                                   Page 2

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Tyr Pro His Thr His Leu Val His Gln Ala Asn Pro Arg Gly Ser Ala
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Pro Cys Cys Thr Pro Thr Lys Met Ser Pro Ile Asn Met Leu Tyr
                          340                 345                 350
<removed-apn>
              Phe Asn Gly Lys Glu Gln Ile Ile Tyr Gly Lys Ile Pro Ala Met Val
                      355                 360                 365
              Val Asp Arg Cys Gly Cys Ser
                  370                 375
              <210>   2
              <211>   352
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   2
              Asn Glu Asn Ser Glu Gln Lys Glu Asn Val Glu Lys Glu Gly Leu Cys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asn Ala Cys Thr Trp Arg Gln Asn Thr Lys Ser Ser Arg Ile Glu Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Lys Ile Gln Ile Leu Ser Lys Leu Arg Leu Glu Thr Ala Pro Asn
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Ser Lys Asp Val Ile Arg Gln Leu Leu Pro Lys Ala Pro Pro Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Arg Glu Leu Ile Asp Gln Tyr Asp Val Gln Arg Asp Asp Ser Ser Asp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly Ser Leu Glu Asp Asp Asp Tyr His Ala Thr Thr Glu Thr Ile Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Met Pro Thr Glu Ser Asp Phe Leu Met Gln Val Asp Gly Lys Pro
                          100                 105                 110
                                                   Page 3

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Lys Cys Cys Phe Phe Lys Phe Ser Ser Lys Ile Gln Tyr Asn Lys Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Lys Ala Gln Leu Trp Ile Tyr Leu Arg Pro Val Glu Thr Pro Thr
                  130                 135                 140
              Thr Val Phe Val Gln Ile Leu Arg Leu Ile Lys Pro Met Lys Asp Gly
<removed-apn>
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Thr Arg Tyr Thr Gly Ile Arg Ser Leu Lys Leu Asp Met Asn Pro Gly
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Gly Ile Trp Gln Ser Ile Asp Val Lys Thr Val Leu Gln Asn Trp
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu Lys Gln Pro Glu Ser Asn Leu Gly Ile Glu Ile Lys Ala Leu Asp
                      195                 200                 205
              Glu Asn Gly His Asp Leu Ala Val Thr Phe Pro Gly Pro Gly Glu Asp
                  210                 215                 220
              Gly Leu Asn Pro Phe Leu Glu Val Lys Val Thr Asp Thr Pro Lys Arg
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Arg Arg Asp Phe Gly Leu Asp Cys Asp Glu His Ser Thr Glu Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Arg Cys Cys Arg Tyr Pro Leu Thr Val Asp Phe Glu Ala Phe Gly Trp
                          260                 265                 270
              Asp Trp Ile Ile Ala Pro Lys Arg Tyr Lys Ala Asn Tyr Cys Ser Gly
                      275                 280                 285
              Glu Cys Glu Phe Val Phe Leu Gln Lys Tyr Pro His Thr His Leu Val
                  290                 295                 300
              His Gln Ala Asn Pro Arg Gly Ser Ala Gly Pro Cys Cys Thr Pro Thr
              305                 310                 315                 320
                                                   Page 4

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Lys Met Ser Pro Ile Asn Met Leu Tyr Phe Asn Gly Lys Glu Gln Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Ile Tyr Gly Lys Ile Pro Ala Met Val Val Asp Arg Cys Gly Cys Ser
                          340                 345                 350
              <210>   3
<removed-apn>
              <211>   109
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   3
              Asp Phe Gly Leu Asp Cys Asp Glu His Ser Thr Glu Ser Arg Cys Cys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Tyr Pro Leu Thr Val Asp Phe Glu Ala Phe Gly Trp Asp Trp Ile
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ala Pro Lys Arg Tyr Lys Ala Asn Tyr Cys Ser Gly Glu Cys Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Phe Val Phe Leu Gln Lys Tyr Pro His Thr His Leu Val His Gln Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              Asn Pro Arg Gly Ser Ala Gly Pro Cys Cys Thr Pro Thr Lys Met Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Pro Ile Asn Met Leu Tyr Phe Asn Gly Lys Glu Gln Ile Ile Tyr Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Ile Pro Ala Met Val Val Asp Arg Cys Gly Cys Ser
                          100                 105
              <210>   4
              <211>   94
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   4
              Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                   Page 5

                                                10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Ala Val Thr Val Arg Tyr Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln Glu Phe
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Thr Val Pro Gly Ser Lys Ser Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu Lys Pro
                  50                  55                  60
              Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Gly Arg Gly Asp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Pro Ala Ser Ser Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90
              <210>   5
              <211>   157
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (7)..(21)
              <223>   Xaa, if present, can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (26)..(45)
              <223>   Xaa, if present, can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (54)..(73)
              <223>   Xaa, if present, can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (79)..(98)
              <223>   Xaa, if present, can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <220>
                                                    Page 6

                                                10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (102)..(121)
              <223>   Xaa, if present, can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (131)..(150)
              <223>   Xaa, if present, can be any naturally occurring amino acid
<removed-apn>
              <400>   5
              Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5                   10                  15
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Ser Leu Leu Ile Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
                          20                  25                  30
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Tyr Tyr Arg
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
                  50                  55                  60
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Xaa Xaa
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
                              85                  90                  95
              Xaa Xaa Ala Thr Ile Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
                          100                 105                 110
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Val Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
                  130                 135                 140
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
              145                 150                 155
              <210>   6
                                                    Page 7

                                                10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (13)..(32)
              <223>   Xaa, if present, can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (53)..(72)
              <223>   Xaa, if present, can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (92)..(111)
              <223>   Xaa, if present, can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <400>   6
              Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5                   10                  15
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
                  50                  55                  60
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu Lys Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
                              85                  90                  95
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Ile
                          100                 105                 110
                                                    Page 8

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                      115
              <210>   7
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   7
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Ala Gly His Val Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   8
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   8
              Ser Trp Val Ser Pro Arg Gly Arg Ala Arg
              1               5                   10
              <210>   9
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   9
              Ser Trp Glu Val Pro Arg Gly Leu Ala Arg
              1               5                   10
              <210>   10
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                   Page 9

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   10
              Ser Trp Trp Ala Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Arg
              1               5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   11
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   11
              Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Leu Ala His
              1               5                   10
              <210>   12
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   12
              Ser Trp Tyr Leu Pro Tyr Pro Ala His Met Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   13
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   13
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Phe Ala Gly His Leu Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   14
                                                  Page 10

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   14
<removed-apn>
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Ser Gly Leu Ala Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   15
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   15
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Ala Gly His Ala His
              1               5                   10
              <210>   16
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   16
              Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro Asn Phe Gly Leu Ile Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   17
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   17
              Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala His
                                                  Page 11

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              1                5                  10
              <210>   18
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   18
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Ala Gly His Leu Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   19
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   19
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Ala Ala His Met Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   20
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   20
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Pro Gly His Leu Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   21
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                  Page 12

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   21
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Ala Gly His Ala His
              1               5                   10
              <210>   22
              <211>   10
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   22
              Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Gly Gly Leu Ala Arg
              1               5                   10
              <210>   23
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   23
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Thr Pro Gly Leu Ala His
              1               5                   10
              <210>   24
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   24
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Arg Gly Val Ala Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   25
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
                                                  Page 13

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   25
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Ser Ser Gly Val Ala His
              1               5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   26
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   26
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His His Gly Phe Gly His
              1               5                   10
              <210>   27
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   27
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Ala Gly Asp Ala His
              1               5                   10
              <210>   28
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   28
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Asn Gly Val Ala His
              1               5                   10
                                                  Page 14

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   29
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
<removed-apn>
              <400>   29
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Arg Gln Gly Leu Ala Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   30
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   30
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Gly Pro Gly His Phe His
              1               5                   10
              <210>   31
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   31
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Pro Gly Leu Gly His
              1               5                   10
              <210>   32
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   32
                                                  Page 15

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Arg Gly Leu Ala Arg
              1               5                   10
              <210>   33
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   33
              Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Ala Gly Leu Ala Arg
              1               5                   10
              <210>   34
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   34
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Gln Gly Lys Ala Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   35
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   35
              Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Lys Gly Leu Ala Arg
              1               5                   10
              <210>   36
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 16

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   36
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Asn Pro Gly Ile Ala His
              1               5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   37
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   37
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Arg Pro Gly Asn Ala His
              1               5                   10
              <210>   38
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   38
              Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Asn Pro Gly Asn Ala His
              1               5                   10
              <210>   39
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   39
              Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr
              1               5
              <210>   40
                                                  Page 17

                                            10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   40
<removed-apn>
              Pro Gly Arg Gly Ser Thr
              1               5
              <210>   41
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   41
              Leu Gly Arg Gly Ser Thr
              1               5
              <210>   42
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   42
              Pro Gly Arg Gly Leu Thr
              1               5
              <210>   43
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   43
              Ile Gly Arg Gly Ser Thr
                                               Page 18

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              1                5
              <210>   44
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   44
              Phe Gly Arg Gly Thr Thr
              1               5
              <210>   45
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   45
              Val Gly Arg Gly Asn Thr
              1               5
              <210>   46
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   46
              Thr Leu Thr Lys Ser Gln Met Ile His Tyr Met Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   47
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                  Page 19

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   47
              Thr Ile Tyr Arg Asp Gly Met Ser His His Asp Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   48
              <211>   12
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   48
              Thr Val Tyr Arg Asp Gly Pro Leu Leu Leu Ala Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   49
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   49
              Thr Ile Phe Arg Thr Gly Met Val Gln Tyr Asp Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   50
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   50
              Thr Leu Thr Asn Ser Glu Ile Ile Leu Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   51
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
                                                  Page 20

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   51
              Thr Leu Thr Lys Ser Gln Ile Leu His His Arg Pro
              1               5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   52
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   52
              Thr Leu Thr Arg Ser Lys Ile Ile His Tyr Met Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   53
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   53
              Thr Leu Thr His Ser Asn Ile Ile Arg Tyr Val Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   54
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   54
              Thr Val Ser Ser Thr Lys Val Ile Val Tyr Leu Pro
              1               5                   10
                                                  Page 21

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   55
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
<removed-apn>
              <400>   55
              Thr Ile Thr Lys Ser Thr Ile Ile Ile Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   56
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   56
              Thr Val Thr Thr Thr Ser Val Ile Leu Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   57
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   57
              Thr Leu Thr Lys Ser Gln Leu Ile His Tyr Met Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   58
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   58
                                                  Page 22

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Thr Leu Thr Arg Ser Gln Val Ile His Tyr Met Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   59
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   59
              Thr Leu Thr Lys Ser Lys Ile Ile His Tyr Met Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   60
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   60
              Thr Val Ser Ser Thr Lys Val Ile His Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   61
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   61
              Thr Leu Thr Lys Ser Lys Val Ile His Tyr Met Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   62
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 23

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   62
              Thr Val Thr Thr Thr Lys Val Ile His Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   63
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   63
              Thr Ile Asp Arg Asp Gly Val Asn His Phe Ala Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   64
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   64
              Thr Val Thr His His Gly Val Ile Gly Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   65
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   65
              Thr Leu Thr Gly Ala Asn Val Ile Ile Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   66
                                                  Page 24

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   66
<removed-apn>
              Thr Val Thr Asn Thr Gly Val Ile Ile Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   67
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   67
              Thr Val Thr Ala Thr Gly Ile Ile Ile Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   68
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   68
              Thr Val Thr Arg Ala Gly Phe Tyr Arg Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   69
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   69
              Thr Val Thr Arg Glu Glu Val Ile Ser Tyr Lys Pro
                                                  Page 25

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              1                5                  10
              <210>   70
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   70
              Thr Val Thr Ala Ala Gly Val Ile Ile Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   71
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   71
              Thr Val Thr Ala Asn Gln Pro Ile Ile Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   72
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   72
              Thr Ile Thr Pro Glu Thr Ile Ile Val Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   73
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                  Page 26

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   73
              Thr Ile Asp Arg Asp Gly Thr Arg Ser Phe Asp Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   74
              <211>   12
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   74
              Thr Ile Phe Arg Asp Gly Pro Val Thr Trp Asp Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   75
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   75
              Thr Val Thr Asp Thr Gly Tyr Leu Lys Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   76
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   76
              Thr Leu Thr Gly Ser Asp Thr Ile Phe Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   77
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
                                                  Page 27

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   77
              Thr Val Thr Gly Lys Asp Val Ile Lys Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   78
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   78
              Thr Ile Phe Arg Asp Gly Val Val Asn Tyr Gly Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   79
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   79
              Thr Val Thr Asp Thr Gly Phe Ile Thr Tyr Lys Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   80
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   80
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                  Page 28

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Ala Gly His Val
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Lys Ser Gln Met Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   81
              <211>   109
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   81
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Val Ser Pro Arg Gly Arg Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Ser Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Tyr
                                                  Page 29

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Asp Gly Met Ser His His Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105
<removed-apn>
              <210>   82
              <211>   109
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   82
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Glu Val Pro Arg Gly Leu Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Leu Gly Arg Gly Ser Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Asp Gly Pro Leu Leu Leu Ala Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   83
              <211>   109
              <212>   PRT
                                                  Page 30

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   83
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Trp Ala Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Ser Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Phe
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Thr Gly Met Val Gln Tyr Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   84
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   84
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Leu Ala
                          20                  25                  30
                                                  Page 31

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Asn Ser Glu Ile Ile Leu Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   85
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   85
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Tyr Leu Pro Tyr Pro Ala His Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Leu Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Lys Ser Gln Ile Leu His His Arg Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                                                  Page 32

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                               85                 90                    95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   86
              <211>   110
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   86
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Phe Ala Gly His Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Arg Ser Lys Ile Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   87
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                  Page 33

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   87
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Ser Gly Leu Ala
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr His Ser Asn Ile Ile Arg Tyr Val Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   88
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   88
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Ala Gly His Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
                                                  Page 34

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Ser Ser Thr Lys Val Ile Val Tyr Leu Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   89
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   89
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro Asn Phe Gly Leu Ile
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Lys Ser Thr Ile Ile Ile Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                                                  Page 35

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                           100                105                 110
              <210>   90
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   90
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Thr Thr Ser Val Ile Leu Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   91
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   91
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
                                                  Page 36

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              1                5                  10                    15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Ala Gly His Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Lys Ser Gln Leu Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   92
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   92
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Ala Ala His Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
                                                  Page 37

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Arg Ser Gln Val Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   93
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   93
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Ala Gly His Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Lys Ser Lys Ile Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   94
                                                  Page 38

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   94
<removed-apn>
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Pro Gly His Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Lys Ser Lys Ile Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   95
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   95
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala
                                                  Page 39

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                           20                 25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Arg Ser Lys Ile Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   96
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   96
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Ala Gly His Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                  Page 40

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Thr Lys Ser Lys Ile Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              <210>   97
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   97
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Ala Gly His Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Arg Ser Lys Ile Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   98
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 41

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   98
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Pro Gly His Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Arg Ser Lys Ile Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   99
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   99
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                                                  Page 42

                                                 10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                       35                   40                    45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Ser Ser Thr Lys Val Ile His Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   100
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   100
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Ala Gly His Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Arg Ser Lys Ile Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
                                                    Page 43

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   101
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   101
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Ala Gly His Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Lys Ser Lys Val Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   102
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   102
                                                  Page 44

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Pro Gly His Leu
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Lys Ser Lys Val Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   103
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   103
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                                                  Page 45

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                  50                   55                 60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Ser Thr Lys Val Ile Val Tyr Leu Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>    104
              <211>    110
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Synthetic
              <400>    104
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Ala Gly His Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Lys Ser Lys Val Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
                                                  Page 46

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   105
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
<removed-apn>
              <400>   105
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Thr Thr Lys Val Ile His Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   106
              <211>   109
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   106
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                  Page 47

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Gly Gly Leu Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Glu Phe Thr Val Ile Gly Arg Gly Ser Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Asp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Asp Gly Val Asn His Phe Ala Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   107
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   107
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Thr Pro Gly Leu Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
                                                  Page 48

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr His His Gly Val Ile Gly Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              <210>   108
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   108
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Arg Gly Val Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Gly Ala Asn Val Ile Ile Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   109
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
                                                  Page 49

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   109
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Ser Ser Gly Val Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Asn Thr Gly Val Ile Ile Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   110
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   110
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His His Gly Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
                                                  Page 50

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Ala Thr Gly Ile Ile Ile Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   111
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   111
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Ala Gly Asp Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Arg Ala Gly Phe Tyr Arg Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                                                  Page 51

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                               85                 90                    95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   112
              <211>   110
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   112
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Asn Gly Val Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Arg Glu Glu Val Ile Ser Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   113
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                  Page 52

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   113
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Arg Gln Gly Leu Ala
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Ala Ala Gly Val Ile Ile Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   114
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   114
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Gly Pro Gly His Phe
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
                                                  Page 53

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Thr Ala Asn Gln Pro Ile Ile Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   115
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   115
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Pro Gly Leu Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Pro Glu Thr Ile Ile Val Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                                                  Page 54

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                            100               105                   110
              <210>   116
              <211>   109
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   116
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Arg Gly Leu Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Phe Gly Arg Gly Thr Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Asp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Asp Gly Thr Arg Ser Phe Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   117
              <211>   109
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   117
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
                                                  Page 55

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              1                5                  10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Ala Gly Leu Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Glu Phe Thr Val Val Gly Arg Gly Asn Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Phe
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Asp Gly Pro Val Thr Trp Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   118
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   118
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Gln Gly Lys Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
                                                  Page 56

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Asp Thr Gly Tyr Leu Lys Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   119
              <211>   109
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   119
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Lys Gly Leu Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Val Gly Arg Gly Asn Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Phe
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Asp Gly Pro Val Thr Trp Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   120
                                                  Page 57

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   120
<removed-apn>
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Asn Pro Gly Ile Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Gly Ser Asp Thr Ile Phe Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   121
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   121
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Arg Pro Gly Asn Ala
                                                  Page 58

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                            20                25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Gly Lys Asp Val Ile Lys Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   122
              <211>   109
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   122
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Ala Gly Leu Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Val Gly Arg Gly Asn Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Phe
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                  Page 59

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Arg Asp Gly Val Val Asn Tyr Gly Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105
<removed-apn>
              <210>   123
              <211>   110
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   123
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Asn Pro Gly Asn Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Asp Thr Gly Phe Ile Thr Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   124
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 60

                                                 10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 124
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gcatgctggt catgtgaact attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
<removed-apn>
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactctg   240
              actaaatctc agatgatcca ttacatgcca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   125
              <211>   327
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 125
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct gggtttctcc gcgtggtcgt gctcgatatt accgcatcac ttacggcgaa   120
              acaggaggca atagccctgt ccaggagttc actgtgcctg gtcgtggttc tacagctacc   180
              atcagcggcc ttaaacctgg cgttgattat accatcactg tgtatgctgt cactatctac   240
              cgtgacggta tgtctcatca tgacccaatt tccattaatt accgcacaga aattgacaaa   300
              ccatcccagc accatcacca ccaccac                                       327
              <210>   126
              <211>   327
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 126
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct gggaagtgcc gcgtggccta gctcgatatt accgcatcac ttacggcgaa   120
                                                    Page 61

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              acaggaggca atagccctgt ccaggagttc actgtgcttg gtcgtggttc tacagctacc   180
              atcagcggcc ttaaacctgg cgttgattat accatcactg tgtatgctgt cactgtgtac   240
              cgtgacgggc cgttgcttct tgccccaatt tccattaatt accgcacaga aattgacaaa   300
              ccatcccagc accatcacca ccaccac                                       327
<removed-apn>
              <210>   127
              <211>   327
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 127
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtgggcccc gctgggtctt gctcgatatt accgcatcac ttacggcgaa   120
              acaggaggca atagccctgt ccaggagttc actgtgcctg gtcggggctc tacagctacc   180
              atcagcggcc ttaaacctgg cgttgattat accatcactg tgtatgctgt cactatcttc   240
              cgtacgggca tggttcaata tgacccaatt tccattaatt accgcacaga aattgacaaa   300
              ccatcccagc accatcacca ccaccac                                       327
              <210>   128
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 128
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggactctgcc gcatgctggt cttgcgcact attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactctg   240
              actaattctg agattatcct ttacaagcca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
                                                  Page 62

                                                 10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   129
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
<removed-apn>
              <400> 129
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtacctccc gtatcctgcg catatgaact attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctgggcgggg tctgacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactctg   240
              acaaaatctc agattctcca tcataggcca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   130
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 130
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtcattgcc gtttgctggt catttgaact attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactctg   240
              actcgctcta agattattca ttatatgcca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   131
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                    Page 63

                                                 10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 131
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc ttattctggc cttgcgaact attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg ggttacagct   180
              actatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactctg   240
<removed-apn>
              actcactcta atataattcg atacgtgcca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   132
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 132
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtccctacc gcatgcgggt catgcgcact attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg agttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtg   240
              tctagtacaa aggtgatagt ttacctgcca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   133
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 133
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggactttgcc gaatttcggt cttattaatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
                                                    Page 64

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactatc   240
              accaaatcta ctatcatcat ttacaagcca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   134
              <211>   330
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 134
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggactttgcc gcatgctggt cgtgcgcact attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctgggcgggg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtg   240
              acgacaactt cggtgatcct ttacaagcca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   135
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 135
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctcttcc ttatgctggt catctaaact attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgtgacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactctg   240
              actaagtctc agctgataca ttacatgcca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   136
                                                  Page 65

                                                 10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 136
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
<removed-apn>
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gtatgctgct cacatgaact attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactttg   240
              actagatcac aggtgattca ttacatgcca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   137
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 137
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
              ctgattagct ggtcactgcc gcatgcaggt catgcacatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccctg   240
              accaaaagca aaattattca ttatatgccg attagcatta attatcgcac cgaaattgat   300
              aaaccgagcc agcatcatca tcaccatcat                                    330
              <210>   138
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   138
                                                    Page 66

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
              ctgattagct ggtcactgcc gtatccgggt catctgaatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccctg   240
              accaaaagca aaattattca ttatatgccg attagcatta attatcgcac cgaaattgat   300
<removed-apn>
              aaaccgagcc agcatcatca tcaccatcat                                    330
              <210>   139
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 139
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
              ctgattagct ggaccctgcc gcatgcaggt cgtgcacatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccctg   240
              acccgcagca aaattattca ttatatgccg attagcatta attatcgcac cgaaattgat   300
              aaaccgagcc agcatcatca tcaccatcat                                    330
              <210>   140
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 140
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
              ctgattagct ggtcactgcc gtatgcaggt catgcacatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccctg   240
                                                  Page 67

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              accaaaagca aaattattca ttatatgccg attagcatta attatcgcac cgaaattgat   300
              aaaccgagcc agcatcatca tcaccatcat                                    330
              <210>   141
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 141
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
              ctgattagct ggtcactgcc gcatgcaggt catgcacatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccctg   240
              acccgcagca aaattattca ttatatgccg attagcatta attatcgcac cgaaattgat   300
              aaaccgagcc agcatcatca tcaccatcat                                    330
              <210>   142
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 142
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
              ctgattagct ggtcactgcc gtatccgggt catctgaatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccctg   240
              acccgcagca aaattattca ttatatgccg attagcatta attatcgcac cgaaattgat   300
              aaaccgagcc agcatcatca tcaccatcat                                    330
              <210>   143
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
                                                  Page 68

                                                 10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 143
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
              ctgattagct ggaccctgcc gcatgcaggt cgtgcacatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
<removed-apn>
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccgtt   240
              agcagcacca aagtgattca ttataaaccg attagcatta attatcgcac cgaaattgat   300
              aaaccgagcc agcatcatca tcaccatcat                                    330
              <210>   144
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 144
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
              ctgattagct ggtcactgcc gtatgcaggt catgcacatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccctg   240
              acccgcagca aaattattca ttatatgccg attagcatta attatcgcac cgaaattgat   300
              aaaccgagcc agcatcatca tcaccatcat                                    330
              <210>   145
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 145
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
                                                    Page 69

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              ctgattagct ggtcactgcc gcatgcaggt catgcacatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccctg   240
              accaaaagca aagtgattca ttatatgccg attagcatta attatcgcac cgaaattgat   300
              aaaccgagcc agcatcatca tcaccatcat                                    330
<removed-apn>
              <210>   146
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 146
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
              ctgattagct ggtcactgcc gtatccgggt catctgaatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccctg   240
              accaaaagca aagtgattca ttatatgccg attagcatta attatcgcac cgaaattgat   300
              aaaccgagcc agcatcatca tcaccatcat                                    330
              <210>   147
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 147
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
              ctgattagct ggaccctgcc gcatgcaggt cgtgcacatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccgtt   240
              agcagcacca aagttattgt ttatctgccg attagcatta attatcgcac cgaaattgat   300
                                                  Page 70

                                                 10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              aaaccgagcc agcatcatca tcaccatcat                                    330
              <210>   148
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 148
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
              ctgattagct ggtcactgcc gtatgcaggt catgcacatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccctg   240
              accaaaagca aagtgattca ttatatgccg attagcatta attatcgcac cgaaattgat   300
              aaaccgagcc agcatcatca tcaccatcat                                    330
              <210>   149
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 149
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
              ctgattagct ggaccctgcc gcatgcaggt cgtgcacatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccgtt   240
              accaccacca aagtgattca ttataaaccg attagcatta attatcgcac cgaaattgat   300
              aaaccgagcc agcatcatca tcaccatcat                                    330
              <210>   150
              <211>   327
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                    Page 71

                                                 10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 150
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct gggacgctcc gggtggtctg gctcgatatt accgcatcac ttacggcgaa   120
              acaggaggca atagccctgt ccaggagttc actgtgatcg gtcgtggtag cacagctacc   180
<removed-apn>
              atcagcggcc ttaaacctgg cgttgattat accatcactg tgtatgctgt cactatcgac   240
              cgtgacggtg tcaaccactt cgccccaatt tccattaatt accgcacaga aattgacaaa   300
              ccatcccagc accatcacca ccaccac                                       327
              <210>   151
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 151
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gactccaggt ctcgcccatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtc   240
              actcatcacg gcgtcatcgg ctacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   152
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 152
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gcaccgtggt gtcgccaatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
                                                    Page 72

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactctc   240
              actggagcga acgtcatcat ctacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
<removed-apn>
              <210>   153
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 153
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gagcagcggt gtcgcccatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtc   240
              actaacactg gtgtcatcat ctacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   154
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 154
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gcatcacggt ttcggccatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtc   240
              actgctacgg ggatcatcat ctacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
                                                  Page 73

                                                 10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   155
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
<removed-apn>
              <400> 155
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gcacgccggt gacgcccatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtt   240
              actagagcgg gtttctaccg ctacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   156
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 156
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gcataatggt gtcgcccatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtc   240
              actcgggagg aagtcatcag ctacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   157
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                    Page 74

                                                 10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 157
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gcgtcagggt ctcgccaatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtc   240
<removed-apn>
              actgctgctg gggtcatcat ctacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   158
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 158
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gggaccgggt cacttccatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtc   240
              actgctaacc agcccatcat ctacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   159
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 159
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gcaccccggt ctcggccatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
                                                    Page 75

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactatc   240
              actccggaaa cgatcatcgt ctacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   160
              <211>   327
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 160
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct gggacgctcc gagaggtctg gctcgatatt accgcatcac ttacggcgaa   120
              acaggaggca atagccctgt ccaggagttc actgtgttcg gtcgtggtac cacagctacc   180
              atcagcggcc ttaaacctgg cgttgattat accatcactg tgtatgctgt cactatcgac   240
              cgtgacggta cccgcagctt cgacccaatt tccattaatt accgcacaga aattgacaaa   300
              ccatcccagc accatcacca ccaccac                                       327
              <210>   161
              <211>   327
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 161
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct gggacgctcc ggctggtctg gctcgatatt accgcatcac ttacggcgaa   120
              acaggaggca atagccctgt ccaggagttc actgtggtcg gtcgtggtaa cacagctacc   180
              atcagcggcc ttaaacctgg cgttgattat accatcactg tgtatgctgt cactatcttc   240
              cgtgacggtc ccgtcacctg ggacccaatt tccattaatt accgcacaga aattgacaaa   300
              ccatcccagc accatcacca ccaccac                                       327
              <210>   162
                                                  Page 76

                                                 10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 162
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
<removed-apn>
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gcaccaaggt aaagccaatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtt   240
              actgatacag ggtacctcaa gtacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   163
              <211>   327
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 163
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct gggacgctcc gaagggtctg gctcgatatt accgcatcac ttacggcgaa   120
              acaggaggca atagccctgt ccaggagttc actgtggtcg gtcgtggtaa cacagctacc   180
              atcagcggcc ttaaacctgg cgttgattat accatcactg tgtatgctgt cactatcttc   240
              cgtgacggtc ccgtcacctg ggacccaatt tccattaatt accgcacaga aattgacaaa   300
              ccatcccagc accatcacca ccaccac                                       327
              <210>   164
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   164
                                                    Page 77

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gaatcccggt atcgcccatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactctc   240
              actggcagtg acaccatctt ctacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
<removed-apn>
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   165
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 165
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gcggccgggt aacgcccatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtt   240
              actggcaaag atgtcatcaa gtacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   166
              <211>   327
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 166
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct gggacgctcc ggctggtctg gctcgatatt accgcatcac ttacggcgaa   120
              acaggaggca atagccctgt ccaggagttc actgtggtcg gtcgtggtaa cacagctacc   180
              atcagcggcc ttaaacctgg cgttgattat accatcactg tgtatgctgt cactatcttc   240
                                                  Page 78

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              cgtgacggtg tcgtcaacta cggcccaatt tccattaatt accgcacaga aattgacaaa   300
              ccatcccagc accatcacca ccaccac                                       327
              <210>   167
              <211>   330
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 167
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gaatccgggt aacgcccatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtt   240
              actgacacag gtttcatcac gtacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaattgac   300
              aaaccatccc agcaccatca ccaccaccac                                    330
              <210>   168
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   168
              Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
              1               5
              <210>   169
              <211>   227
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   169
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
                                                  Page 79

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                                                  Page 80

                                                10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                  210                 215                  220
              Pro Gly Lys
              225
              <210>   170
              <211>   16
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   170
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   171
              <211>   24
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   171
              Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser
                          20
              <210>   172
              <211>   24
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   172
              Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                   Page 81

                                                10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Ser Ser
                          20
              <210>   173
              <211>   24
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   173
              Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Gly Ser Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Ser Ser
                          20
              <210>   174
              <211>   19
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   174
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser
              <210>   175
              <211>   19
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   175
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
                                                   Page 82

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              1                5                  10                  15
              Gly Ser Ser
              <210>   176
              <211>   330
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   176
              Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys
                  130                 135                 140
                                                  Page 83

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-apn>
              Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu
                          180                 185                 190
              His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly
                  210                 215                 220
              Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr
                              245                 250                 255
              Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn
                          260                 265                 270
              Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                              325                 330
              <210>   177
              <211>   20
              <212>   PRT
                                                  Page 84

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   177
              Met Glu Thr Asp Thr Leu Leu Leu Trp Val Leu Leu Leu Trp Val Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Gly Ser Thr Gly
                          20
              <210>   178
              <211>   208
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   178
              Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu
                          100                 105                 110
                                                  Page 85

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys
                      115                 120                 125
              Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                      195                 200                 205
              <210>   179
              <211>   206
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   179
              Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr
                                                  Page 86

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys
                      115                 120                 125
              Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              <210>   180
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   180
              Gly Ser Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   181
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
                                                  Page 87

                                                10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   181
              Gly Ala Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   182
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   182
              Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp
              1               5
              <210>   183
              <211>   21
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   183
              Glu Ser Pro Lys Ala Gln Ala Ser Ser Val Pro Thr Ala Gln Pro Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Glu Gly Leu Ala
                          20
              <210>   184
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   184
                                                   Page 88

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Glu Leu Gln Leu Glu Glu Ser Ala Ala Glu Ala Gln Asp Gly Glu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp
<removed-apn>
              <210>   185
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   185
              Gly Gln Pro Asp Glu Pro Gly Gly Ser
              1               5
              <210>   186
              <211>   13
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   186
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser
              1               5                   10
              <210>   187
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   187
              Glu Leu Gln Leu Glu Glu Ser Ala Ala Glu Ala Gln Glu Gly Glu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu
                                                    Page 89

                                            10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   188
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   188
              Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly
              1               5
              <210>   189
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   189
              Gly Ser Gly Cys
              1
              <210>   190
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   190
              Ala Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5
              <210>   191
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                               Page 90

                                                10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   191
              Gly Ser Gly Ser
              1
              <210>   192
              <211>   8
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   192
              Gln Pro Asp Glu Pro Gly Gly Ser
              1               5
              <210>   193
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   193
              Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser
              1               5
              <210>   194
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   194
              Thr Val Ala Ala Pro Ser
              1               5
              <210>   195
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
                                                   Page 91

                                                10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   195
              Lys Ala Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   196
              <211>   13
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   196
              Lys Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser
              1               5                   10
              <210>   197
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   197
              Lys Gln Pro Asp Glu Pro Gly Gly Ser
              1               5
              <210>   198
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   198
              Lys Glu Leu Gln Leu Glu Glu Ser Ala Ala Glu Ala Gln Asp Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                    Page 92

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Leu Asp
              <210>   199
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   199
              Lys Thr Val Ala Ala Pro Ser
              1               5
              <210>   200
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   200
              Lys Ala Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
              1               5
              <210>   201
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   201
              Lys Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10
              <210>   202
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                    Page 93

                                                10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   202
              Lys Gln Pro Asp Glu Pro Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   203
              <211>   19
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   203
              Lys Glu Leu Gln Leu Glu Glu Ser Ala Ala Glu Ala Gln Asp Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Asp Gly
              <210>   204
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   204
              Lys Thr Val Ala Ala Pro Ser Gly
              1               5
              <210>   205
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   205
              Ala Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
                                                   Page 94

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              1                5
              <210>   206
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   206
              Ala Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5
              <210>   207
              <211>   13
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   207
              Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10
              <210>   208
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   208
              Gln Pro Asp Glu Pro Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5
              <210>   209
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                    Page 95

                                                10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   209
              Thr Val Ala Ala Pro Ser Gly
              1               5
              <210>   210
              <211>   7
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   210
              Pro Ser Thr Ser Thr Ser Thr
              1               5
              <210>   211
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   211
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln
              1               5
              <210>   212
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   212
              Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser
              1               5
              <210>   213
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
                                                   Page 96

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   213
              Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser
              1               5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   214
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   214
              Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser
              1               5                   10
              <210>   215
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   215
              Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser
              1               5                   10
              <210>   216
              <211>   13
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   216
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser
              1               5                   10
                                                  Page 97

                                                10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   217
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
<removed-apn>
              <400>   217
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   218
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   218
              Gly Ser Glu Gly Ser Glu Gly Ser Glu Gly Ser Glu Gly Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   219
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   219
              Gly Gly Ser Glu Gly Gly Ser Glu
              1               5
              <210>   220
              <211>   35
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   220
                                                   Page 98

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Gly Gly Ser
                      35
              <210>   221
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   221
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   222
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   222
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   223
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                    Page 99

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   223
              Gly Pro Gly Pro Gly Pro Gly
              1               5
              <210>   224
              <211>   11
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   224
              Gly Pro Gly Pro Gly Pro Gly Pro Gly Pro Gly
              1               5                   10
              <210>   225
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   225
              Pro Ala Pro Ala Pro Ala
              1               5
              <210>   226
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   226
              Pro Ala Pro Ala Pro Ala Pro Ala Pro Ala Pro Ala
              1               5                   10
              <210>   227
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
                                                  Page 100

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   227
              Pro Ala Pro Ala Pro Ala Pro Ala Pro Ala Pro Ala Pro Ala Pro Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Pro Ala
              <210>   228
              <211>   106
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   228
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Val Ser Pro Arg Gly Arg Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Ser Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Asp Gly Met Ser His His Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Ser Gly Cys His His His His His His
                          100                 105
                                                  Page 101

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   229
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
<removed-apn>
              <400>   229
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Ala Gly His Val
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Lys Ser Gln Met Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Gly Ser Gly Cys His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   230
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   230
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                  Page 102

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Thr Thr Ser Val Ile Leu Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Gly Ser Gly Cys His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   231
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   231
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Tyr Leu Pro Tyr Pro Ala His Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Leu Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
                                                  Page 103

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Lys Ser Gln Ile Leu His His Arg Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Gly Ser Gly Cys His His His His His His
                          100                 105
<removed-apn>
              <210>   232
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   232
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Ala Gly His Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Lys Ser Gln Leu Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Gly Ser Gly Cys His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   233
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
                                                  Page 104

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   233
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Thr Thr Lys Val Ile His Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Gly Ser Gly Cys His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   234
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   234
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala
                          20                  25                  30
                                                  Page 105

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Thr Thr Lys Val Ile His Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Gly Ser Gly Cys His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   235
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   235
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Arg Gly Leu Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Phe Gly Arg Gly Thr Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Asp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Asp Gly Thr Arg Ser Phe Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                                                  Page 106

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                               85                 90                  95
              Glu Gly Ser Gly Cys His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   236
              <211>   107
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   236
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Ala Gly Leu Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Val Gly Arg Gly Asn Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Phe
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Asp Gly Pro Val Thr Trp Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Gly Ser Gly Cys His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   237
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                  Page 107

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   237
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Lys Gly Leu Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Val Gly Arg Gly Asn Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Phe
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Asp Gly Pro Val Thr Trp Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Gly Ser Gly Cys His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   238
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   238
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Asn Pro Gly Asn Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
                                                  Page 108

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Thr Asp Thr Gly Phe Ile Thr Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Gly Ser Gly Cys His His His His His His
                          100                 105
              <210>   239
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   239
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Gln Gly Lys Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Asp Thr Gly Tyr Leu Lys Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Gly Ser Gly Cys His His His His His His
                                                  Page 109

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                          100                 105
              <210>   240
              <211>   318
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 240
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct gggtttctcc gcgtggtcgt gctcgatatt accgcatcac ttacggcgaa   120
              acaggaggca atagccctgt ccaggagttc actgtgcctg gtcgtggttc tacagctacc   180
              atcagcggcc ttaaacctgg cgttgattat accatcactg tgtatgctgt cactatctac   240
              cgtgacggta tgtctcatca tgacccaatt tccattaatt accgcacagg tagcggttgc   300
              caccatcacc accatcac                                                 318
              <210>   241
              <211>   321
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 241
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gcatgctggt catgtgaact attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactctg   240
              actaaatctc agatgatcca ttacatgcca atttccatta attaccgcac aggtagcggt   300
              tgccaccatc accaccatca c                                             321
              <210>   242
              <211>   324
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 110

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 242
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggactttgcc gcatgctggt cgtgcgcact attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctgggcgggg tgttacagct   180
<removed-apn>
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtg   240
              acgacaactt cggtgatcct ttacaagcca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaggtagc   300
              ggttgccacc atcaccacca tcac                                          324
              <210>   243
              <211>   324
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 243
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtacctccc gtatcctgcg catatgaact attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctgggcgggg tctgacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactctg   240
              acaaaatctc agattctcca tcataggcca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaggtagc   300
              ggttgccacc atcaccacca tcac                                          324
              <210>   244
              <211>   324
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 244
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctcttcc ttatgctggt catctaaact attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
                                                  Page 111

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgtgacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactctg   240
              actaagtctc agctgataca ttacatgcca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaggtagc   300
              ggttgccacc atcaccacca tcac                                          324
<removed-apn>
              <210>    245
              <211>    324
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Synthetic
              <400> 245
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
              ctgattagct ggaccctgcc gcatgcaggt cgtgcacatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccgtt   240
              accaccacca aagtgattca ttataaaccg atttccatta attaccgcac agaaggtagc   300
              ggttgccacc atcaccacca tcac                                          324
              <210>    246
              <211>    306
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Synthetic
              <400> 246
              atgggtgtta gtgatgttcc gcgtgatctg gaagttgttg cagcaacccc gaccagcctg    60
              ctgattagct ggaccctgcc gcatgcaggt cgtgcacatt attatcgtat tacctatggt   120
              gaaaccggtg gtaatagtcc ggttcaggaa ttcaccgttc cgggtcgtgg tgttaccgca   180
              accattagcg gtctgaaacc gggtgttgat tacaccatta ccgtttatgc agttaccgtt   240
              accaccacca aagtgattca ttataaaccg atttccatta attaccgaac agaaggtagc   300
              ggttgc                                                              306
                                                  Page 112

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   247
              <211>   321
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
<removed-apn>
              <400> 247
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct gggacgctcc gagaggtctg gctcgatatt accgcatcac ttacggcgaa   120
              acaggaggca atagccctgt ccaggagttc actgtgttcg gtcgtggtac cacagctacc   180
              atcagcggcc ttaaacctgg cgttgattat accatcactg tgtatgctgt cactatcgac   240
              cgtgacggta cccgcagctt cgacccaatt tccattaatt accgcacaga aggtagcggt   300
              tgccaccatc accaccatca c                                             321
              <210>   248
              <211>   321
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 248
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct gggacgctcc ggctggtctg gctcgatatt accgcatcac ttacggcgaa   120
              acaggaggca atagccctgt ccaggagttc actgtggtcg gtcgtggtaa cacagctacc   180
              atcagcggcc ttaaacctgg cgttgattat accatcactg tgtatgctgt cactatcttc   240
              cgtgacggtc ccgtcacctg ggacccaatt tccattaatt accgcacaga aggtagcggt   300
              tgccaccatc accaccatca c                                             321
              <210>   249
              <211>   321
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                  Page 113

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 249
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct gggacgctcc gaagggtctg gctcgatatt accgcatcac ttacggcgaa   120
              acaggaggca atagccctgt ccaggagttc actgtggtcg gtcgtggtaa cacagctacc   180
              atcagcggcc ttaaacctgg cgttgattat accatcactg tgtatgctgt cactatcttc   240
<removed-apn>
              cgtgacggtc ccgtcacctg ggacccaatt tccattaatt accgcacaga aggtagcggt   300
              tgccaccatc accaccatca c                                             321
              <210>   250
              <211>   324
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 250
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gaatccgggt aacgcccatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtt   240
              actgacacag gtttcatcac gtacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaggtagc   300
              ggttgccacc atcaccacca tcac                                          324
              <210>   251
              <211>   324
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 251
              atgggagttt ctgatgtgcc gcgcgacctg gaagtggttg ctgccacccc caccagcctg    60
              ctgatcagct ggtctctgcc gcaccaaggt aaagccaatt attaccgcat cacttacggc   120
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgc ctggtcgtgg tgttacagct   180
                                                  Page 114

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactgtt   240
              actgatacag ggtacctcaa gtacaaacca atttccatta attaccgcac agaaggtagc   300
              ggttgccacc atcaccacca tcac                                          324
              <210>   252
              <211>   336
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   252
              Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Gly Ser Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Ser Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln
                              85                  90                  95
              Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr
                  130                 135                 140
                                                  Page 115

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-apn>
              Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Ala Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Val
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro Thr Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Ala Gly His Leu Asn Tyr Tyr
                          260                 265                 270
              Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln Glu Phe
                      275                 280                 285
              Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu Lys Pro
                  290                 295                 300
              Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu Thr Lys Ser
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Leu Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr Glu Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              <210>   253
              <211>   330
              <212>   PRT
                                                  Page 116

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   253
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala His
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Thr Lys Val Ile His Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu
                                                  Page 117

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                            180               185                 190
              His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr
                              245                 250                 255
              Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn
                          260                 265                 270
              Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                              325                 330
              <210>   254
              <211>   325
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   254
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                  Page 118

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala His
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Thr Lys Val Ile His Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu
                          180                 185                 190
              Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala
                      195                 200                 205
              Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro
                  210                 215                 220
                                                  Page 119

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala
                              245                 250                 255
<removed-apn>
              Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr
                          260                 265                 270
              Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                              325
              <210>   255
              <211>   345
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   255
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala His
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                                                  Page 120

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Thr Lys Val Ile His Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Glu Ile Glu Ser Pro Lys Ala Gln Ala Ser Ser Val Pro Thr Ala Gln
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Gln Ala Glu Gly Leu Ala Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys
                  130                 135                 140
              Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His
                      195                 200                 205
              Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro
                                                  Page 121

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                            260               265                 270
              Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu
                  290                 295                 300
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln
                              325                 330                 335
              Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                          340                 345
              <210>   256
              <211>   331
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   256
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                    Page 122

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Gly Ala Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg
                      275                 280                 285
                                                  Page 123

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr
                  290                 295                 300
              Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val Thr Thr Thr Lys Val Ile His Tyr
              305                 310                 315                 320
<removed-apn>
              Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr Glu Ile
                              325                 330
              <210>   257
              <211>   340
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   257
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                                                  Page 124

                                                10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                      115                 120                    125
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
<removed-apn>
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Glu Leu Gln Leu Glu Glu Ser Ala Ala Glu Ala Gln Asp Gly Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Asp Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Val Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              Gly Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Val Thr Thr Thr Lys Val Ile His Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr
                                                  Page 125

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                                325               330                 335
              Arg Thr Glu Ile
                          340
              <210>   258
              <211>   332
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   258
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
                                                  Page 126

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-apn>
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Gly Gln Pro Asp Glu Pro Gly Gly Ser Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr
                          260                 265                 270
              Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly
                      275                 280                 285
              Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val Thr Thr Thr Lys Val Ile His
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr Glu Ile
                              325                 330
              <210>   259
              <211>   336
              <212>   PRT
                                                  Page 127

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   259
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                                                  Page 128

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                            180               185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Pro Gly Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Val
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro Thr Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala His Tyr Tyr
                          260                 265                 270
              Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln Glu Phe
                      275                 280                 285
              Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu Lys Pro
                  290                 295                 300
              Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val Thr Thr Thr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Lys Val Ile His Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr Glu Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              <210>   260
              <211>   339
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   260
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                  Page 129

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
                                                  Page 130

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Pro Glu Leu Gln Leu Glu Glu Ser Ala Ala Glu Ala Gln Asp Gly Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Asp Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala
                              245                 250                 255
<removed-apn>
              Thr Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Arg Gly Leu Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Arg Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      275                 280                 285
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Phe Gly Arg Gly Thr Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Asp Arg Asp Gly Thr Arg Ser Phe Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Glu Ile
              <210>   261
              <211>   339
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   261
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                                                  Page 131

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                      35                  40                    45
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Glu Leu Gln Leu Glu Glu Ser Ala Ala Glu Ala Gln Asp Gly Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Asp Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala
                                                  Page 132

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                               245                250                 255
              Thr Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Ala Gly Leu Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Arg Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      275                 280                 285
<removed-apn>
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Val Gly Arg Gly Asn Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Phe Arg Asp Gly Pro Val Thr Trp Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Glu Ile
              <210>   262
              <211>   339
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   262
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
                                                  Page 133

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Glu Leu Gln Leu Glu Glu Ser Ala Ala Glu Ala Gln Asp Gly Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Asp Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Lys Gly Leu Ala
                          260                 265                 270
                                                  Page 134

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Arg Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      275                 280                 285
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Val Gly Arg Gly Asn Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  290                 295                 300
<removed-apn>
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Phe Arg Asp Gly Pro Val Thr Trp Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Glu Ile
              <210>   263
              <211>   340
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   263
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                                                  Page 135

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Glu Leu Gln Leu Glu Glu Ser Ala Ala Glu Ala Gln Asp Gly Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Asp Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Asn Pro Gly Asn
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Val Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser
                                                  Page 136

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                  290                 295                 300
              Gly Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Val Thr Asp Thr Gly Phe Ile Thr Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr
                              325                 330                 335
<removed-apn>
              Arg Thr Glu Ile
                          340
              <210>   264
              <211>   340
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   264
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
                                                  Page 137

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Glu Leu Gln Leu Glu Glu Ser Ala Ala Glu Ala Gln Asp Gly Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Asp Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Gln Gly Lys
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Val Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              Gly Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr
              305                 310                 315                 320
                                                  Page 138

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Val Thr Asp Thr Gly Tyr Leu Lys Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr
                              325                 330                 335
              Arg Thr Glu Ile
                          340
<removed-apn>
              <210>   265
              <211>   329
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   265
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Arg Gly Leu Ala Arg Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Phe Thr Val Phe Gly Arg Gly Thr Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Asp Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Gly Thr Arg Ser Phe Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr Glu
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val
                                                  Page 139

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-apn>
              Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His
                          180                 185                 190
              Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys
                      195                 200                 205
              Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro
                              245                 250                 255
              Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                              325
              <210>   266
                                                    Page 140

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   329
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   266
<removed-apn>
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Ala Gly Leu Ala Arg Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Phe Thr Val Val Gly Arg Gly Asn Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Phe Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Gly Pro Val Thr Trp Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr Glu
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu
                              165                 170                 175
                                                  Page 141

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His
                          180                 185                 190
              Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro
                              245                 250                 255
              Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                              325
              <210>   267
              <211>   329
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   267
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
                                                    Page 142

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Lys Gly Leu Ala Arg Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln Glu
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Phe Thr Val Val Gly Arg Gly Asn Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Phe Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Gly Pro Val Thr Trp Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr Glu
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His
                          180                 185                 190
              Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys
                      195                 200                 205
              Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln
                                                  Page 143

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro
                              245                 250                 255
<removed-apn>
              Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                              325
              <210>   268
              <211>   330
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   268
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Asn Pro Gly Asn Ala His
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
                                                    Page 144

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Asp Thr Gly Phe Ile Thr Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu
                          180                 185                 190
              His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly
                  210                 215                 220
              Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr
                              245                 250                 255
                                                  Page 145

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn
                          260                 265                 270
              Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe
                      275                 280                 285
<removed-apn>
              Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                              325                 330
              <210>   269
              <211>   330
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   269
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Gln Gly Lys Ala Asn
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Gly Tyr Leu Lys Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                                                  Page 146

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro
                      115                 120                 125
<removed-apn>
              Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu
                          180                 185                 190
              His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly
                  210                 215                 220
              Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr
                              245                 250                 255
              Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn
                          260                 265                 270
              Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn
                                                  Page 147

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                              325                 330
<removed-apn>
              <210>   270
              <211>   340
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   270
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
                                                  Page 148

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
<removed-apn>
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Glu Leu Gln Leu Glu Glu Ser Ala Ala Glu Ala Gln Glu Gly Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Glu Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala His Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Val Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              Gly Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Val Thr Thr Thr Lys Val Ile His Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr
                              325                 330                 335
                                                  Page 149

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Arg Thr Glu Ile
                          340
              <210>   271
              <211>   339
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   271
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
                                                  Page 150

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-apn>
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Glu Leu Gln Leu Glu Glu Ser Ala Ala Glu Ala Gln Glu Gly Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Glu Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Ala Gly Leu Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Arg Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      275                 280                 285
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Val Gly Arg Gly Asn Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Phe Arg Asp Gly Pro Val Thr Trp Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Glu Ile
              <210>   272
                                                  Page 151

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   339
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   272
<removed-apn>
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
                                                  Page 152

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Glu Leu Gln Leu Glu Glu Ser Ala Ala Glu Ala Gln Glu Gly Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Glu Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Lys Gly Leu Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Arg Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val
                      275                 280                 285
              Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Val Gly Arg Gly Asn Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Phe Arg Asp Gly Pro Val Thr Trp Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Glu Ile
              <210>   273
              <211>   340
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                  Page 153

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   273
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                                                  Page 154

                                                  10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                       195                  200                    205
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Glu Leu Gln Leu Glu Glu Ser Ala Ala Glu Ala Gln Glu Gly Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
<removed-apn>
              Leu Glu Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Gln Gly Lys
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Val Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              Gly Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Val Thr Asp Thr Gly Tyr Leu Lys Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr
                              325                 330                 335
              Arg Thr Glu Ile
                          340
              <210>   274
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   274
              Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Gly Ser Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                    Page 155

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Ser Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln
                              85                  90                  95
              Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys
                  210                 215                 220
                                                  Page 156

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   275
              <211>   98
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   275
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Thr Leu Pro His Ala Gly Arg Ala His
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Thr Lys Val Ile His Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile
              <210>   276
              <211>   225
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   276
                                                  Page 157

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met
                      195                 200                 205
                                                  Page 158

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro
              225
<removed-apn>
              <210>   277
              <211>   97
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   277
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Arg Gly Leu Ala Arg Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Phe Thr Val Phe Gly Arg Gly Thr Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Asp Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Gly Thr Arg Ser Phe Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr Glu
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile
              <210>   278
              <211>   97
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 159

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   278
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Ala Gly Leu Ala Arg Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Phe Thr Val Val Gly Arg Gly Asn Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Phe Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Gly Pro Val Thr Trp Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr Glu
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile
              <210>   279
              <211>   97
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   279
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Asp Ala Pro Lys Gly Leu Ala Arg Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln Glu
                                                  Page 160

                                                 10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                       35                   40                    45
              Phe Thr Val Val Gly Arg Gly Asn Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Ile Phe Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Asp Gly Pro Val Thr Trp Asp Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr Glu
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile
              <210>   280
              <211>   98
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   280
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Asn Pro Gly Asn Ala His
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Gly Phe Ile Thr Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
                                                   Page 161

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Glu Ile
              <210>   281
              <211>   98
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   281
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro His Gln Gly Lys Ala Asn
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Gly Tyr Leu Lys Tyr Lys Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile
              <210>   282
              <211>   98
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   282
                                                  Page 162

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu Pro Tyr Ala Gly His Leu Asn
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Leu Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Lys Ser Gln Leu Ile His Tyr Met Pro Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Ile
              <210>   283
              <211>   226
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   283
              Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His
                                                  Page 163

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
                  50                   55                 60
              Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val
                              165                 170                 175
              Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp
                          180                 185                 190
              Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His
                      195                 200                 205
              Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
                  210                 215                 220
              Gly Lys
              225
              <210>    284
              <211>    1008
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 164

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 284
              gagcccaaat ctagcgggtc gactcacaca tgcccaccgt gcccagcacc tgaactcctg     60
              gggggaagct cagtcttcct cttcccccca aaacccaagg acaccctcat gatctcccgg    120
              acccctgagg tcacatgcgt ggtggtggac gtgagccacg aagaccctga ggtcaagttc    180
<removed-apn>
              aactggtacg tggacggcgt ggaggtgcat aatgccaaga caaagccgcg ggaggagcag    240
              tacaacagca cgtaccgtgt ggtcagcgtc ctcaccgtcc tgcaccagga ctggctgaat    300
              ggcaaggagt acaagtgcaa ggtctccaac aaagccctcc cagcccccat cgagaaaacc    360
              atctccaaag ccaaagggca gccccgagaa ccacaggtgt acaccctgcc cccatcccgg    420
              gatgagctga ccaagaacca ggtcagcctg acctgcctgg tcaaaggctt ctatcccagc    480
              gacatcgccg tggagtggga gagcaatggg cagccggaga acaactacaa gaccacgcct    540
              cccgtgctgg actccgacgg ctccttcttc ctctacagca agctcaccgt ggacaagagc    600
              aggtggcagc aggggaacgt cttctcatgc tccgtgatgc atgaggctct gcacaaccac    660
              tacacgcaga agagcctctc cctgtctccc ggcgccggag gcggcggatc cggtggagtt    720
              tctgatgtgc cgcgcgacct ggaagtggtt gctgccaccc ccaccagcct gctgatcagc    780
              tggtctcttc cttatgctgg tcatctaaac tattaccgca tcacttacgg cgaaacagga    840
              ggcaatagcc ctgtccagga gttcactgtg cctggtcgtg gtgtgacagc taccatcagc    900
              ggccttaaac ctggcgttga ttataccatc actgtgtatg ctgtcactct gactaagtct    960
              cagctgatac attacatgcc aatttccatt aattaccgga ccgaaatc                1008
              <210>   285
              <211>   990
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 285
              ggcgtgagcg acgtgccccg ggatctagaa gtggtggctg ctacccccac aagcttgctg     60
              atctcctgga cactgcctca cgctggccgg gctcattact atagaattac ctacggggag    120
                                                  Page 165

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              acaggcggga actctcccgt gcaggaattc accgtgcctg gaaggggcgt gactgccacc   180
              atcagtgggc tgaagccagg agtggactac acaattaccg tgtacgctgt gactgtgacc   240
              acaactaaag tgatccacta caaacccatc tctattaatt atcggaccga aattgagcct   300
              aagagctccg acaaaaccca cacatgccca ccttgtccag cccccgaact gctgggcggc   360
              ccttcagtct tcctcttccc cccaaaaccc aaggacaccc tcatgatctc ccggacccct   420
<removed-apn>
              gaggtcacat gcgtggtggt ggacgtgagc cacgaagacc ctgaggtcaa gttcaactgg   480
              tacgtggacg gcgtggaggt gcataatgcc aagacaaagc cgcgggagga gcagtacaac   540
              agcacgtacc gtgtggtcag cgtcctcacc gtcctgcacc aggactggct gaatggcaag   600
              gagtacaagt gcaaggtctc caacaaagcc ctcccagccc ccatcgagaa aaccatctcc   660
              aaagccaaag ggcagccccg agaaccacag gtgtacaccc tgcccccatc ccgggatgag   720
              ctgaccaaga accaggtcag cctgacctgc ctggtcaaag gcttctatcc cagcgacatc   780
              gccgtggagt gggagagcaa tgggcagccg gagaacaact acaagaccac gcctcccgtg   840
              ttggactccg acggctcctt cttcctctac agcaagctca ccgtggacaa gagcaggtgg   900
              cagcagggga acgtcttctc atgctccgtg atgcatgagg ctctgcacaa ccactacacg   960
              cagaagagcc tctccctgtc tcccgggaaa                                    990
              <210>   286
              <211>   975
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 286
              ggcgtgagcg acgtgccccg ggatctagaa gtggtggctg ctacccccac aagcttgctg    60
              atctcctgga cactgcctca cgctggccgg gctcattact atagaattac ctacggggag   120
              acaggcggga actctcccgt gcaggaattc accgtgcctg gaaggggcgt gactgccacc   180
              atcagtgggc tgaagccagg agtggactac acaattaccg tgtacgctgt gactgtgacc   240
              acaactaaag tgatccacta caaacccatc tctattaatt atcggaccga aattgacaag   300
              acccacacat gcccaccttg tccagccccc gagctgctgg gcggcccttc agtcttcctc   360
                                                  Page 166

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              ttccccccaa aacccaagga caccctcatg atctcccgga cccctgaggt cacatgcgtg   420
              gtggtggacg tgagccacga agaccctgag gtcaagttca actggtacgt ggacggcgtg   480
              gaggtgcata atgccaagac aaagccgcgg gaggagcagt acaacagcac gtaccgtgtg   540
              gtcagcgtcc tcaccgtcct gcaccaggac tggctgaatg gcaaggagta caagtgcaag   600
              gtctccaaca aagccctccc agcccccatc gagaaaacca tctccaaagc caaagggcag   660
<removed-apn>
              ccccgagaac cacaggtgta caccctgccc ccatcccggg atgagctgac caagaaccag   720
              gtcagcctga cctgcctggt caaaggcttc tatcccagcg acatcgccgt ggagtgggag   780
              agcaatgggc agccggagaa caactacaag accacgcctc ccgtgttgga ctccgacggc   840
              tccttcttcc tctacagcaa gctcaccgtg gacaagagca ggtggcagca ggggaacgtc   900
              ttctcatgct ccgtgatgca tgaggctctg cacaaccact acacgcagaa gagcctctcc   960
              ctgtctcccg ggaaa                                                    975
              <210>   287
              <211>   1035
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 287
              ggcgtgagcg acgtgccccg ggatctagaa gtggtggctg ctacccccac aagcttgctg    60
              atctcctgga cactgcctca cgctggccgg gctcattact atagaattac ctacggggag   120
              acaggcggga actctcccgt gcaggaattc accgtgcctg gaaggggcgt gactgccacc   180
              atcagtgggc tgaagccagg agtggactac acaattaccg tgtacgctgt gactgtgacc   240
              acaactaaag tgatccacta caaacccatc tctattaatt atcggaccga aattgagtct   300
              ccaaaggctc aggccagctc cgtgcctacc gctcagccac aggctgaggg cctggctaag   360
              acccacacat gccccccttg tccagctccc gaactgctgg gcgggccttc agtcttcctc   420
              ttccccccaa aacccaagga caccctcatg atctcccgga cccctgaggt cacatgcgtg   480
              gtggtggacg tgagccacga agaccctgag gtcaagttca actggtacgt ggacggcgtg   540
              gaggtgcata atgccaagac aaagccgcgg gaggagcagt acaacagcac gtaccgtgtg   600
                                                  Page 167

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              gtcagcgtcc tcaccgtcct gcaccaggac tggctgaatg gcaaggagta caagtgcaag    660
              gtctccaaca aagccctccc agcccccatc gagaaaacca tctccaaagc caaagggcag    720
              ccccgagaac cacaggtgta caccctgccc ccatcccggg atgagctgac caagaaccag    780
              gtcagcctga cctgcctggt caaaggcttc tatcccagcg acatcgccgt ggagtgggag    840
              agcaatgggc agccggagaa caactacaag accacgcctc ccgtgctgga ctccgacggc    900
<removed-apn>
              tccttcttcc tctacagcaa gctcaccgtg gacaagagca ggtggcagca ggggaacgtc    960
              ttctcatgct ccgtgatgca tgaggctctg cacaaccact acacgcagaa gagcctctcc   1020
              ctgtctcccg ggaaa                                                    1035
              <210>   288
              <211>   993
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 288
              gacaaaactc acacatgccc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc     60
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca    120
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac    180
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac    240
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag    300
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa    360
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag    420
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag    480
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gttggactcc    540
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg    600
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc    660
              ctctccctgt ctcccggcgc cggaggcggc ggatccggtg gcgtgtccga cgtgccccgg    720
              gatctagaag tggtggctgc tacccccaca agcttgctga tctcctggac actgcctcac    780
                                                  Page 168

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              gctggccggg ctcattacta tagaattacc tacggggaga caggcgggaa ctctcccgtg    840
              caggaattca ccgtgcctgg aaggggcgtg actgccacca tcagtgggct gaagccagga    900
              gtggactaca caattaccgt gtacgctgtg actgtgacca caactaaagt gatccactac    960
              aaacccatct ctattaatta tcggaccgaa atc                                 993
<removed-apn>
              <210>   289
              <211>   1020
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 289
              gacaaaactc acacatgccc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc     60
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca    120
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac    180
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac    240
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag    300
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa    360
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag    420
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag    480
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc    540
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg    600
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc    660
              ctctccctgt ctcccgagct gcagctggag gaaagcgccg ctgaggctca ggacggagaa    720
              ctggatggcg tgagcgacgt gccacgggat ctagaagtgg tggctgctac ccccacaagc    780
              ttgctgatct cctggacact gcctcacgct ggccgggctc attactatag aattacctac    840
              ggggagacag gcgggaactc tcccgtgcag gaattcaccg tgcctggaag gggcgtgact    900
              gccaccatca gtgggctgaa gccaggagtg gactacacaa ttaccgtgta cgctgtgact    960
              gtgaccacaa ctaaagtgat ccactacaaa cccatctcta ttaattatcg gaccgaaatt   1020
                                                     Page 169

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   290
              <211>   996
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
<removed-apn>
              <400> 290
              gacaaaactc acacatgccc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc    60
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca   120
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac   180
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac   240
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag   300
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa   360
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag   420
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag   480
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc   540
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg   600
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc   660
              ctctccctgt ctcccggcca gcccgacgag cctggcggga gcggcgtgag cgacgtgcca   720
              cgggatctag aagtggtggc tgctaccccc acaagcttgc tgatctcctg gacactgcct   780
              cacgctggcc gggctcatta ctatagaatt acctacgggg agacaggcgg gaactctccc   840
              gtgcaggaat tcaccgtgcc tggaaggggc gtgactgcca ccatcagtgg gctgaagcca   900
              ggagtggact acacaattac cgtgtacgct gtgactgtga ccacaactaa agtgatccac   960
              tacaaaccca tctctattaa ttatcggacc gaaatt                             996
              <210>   291
              <211>   1008
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                  Page 170

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 291
              gacaaaactc acacatgccc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc     60
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca    120
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac    180
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac    240
<removed-apn>
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag    300
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa    360
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag    420
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag    480
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc    540
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg    600
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc    660
              ctctccctgt ctcccggcgg cagcgggtct ggatctggca gtgggagcgg ctctggcgtg    720
              agcgacgtgc cacgggatct agaagtggtg gctgctaccc ccacaagctt gctgatctcc    780
              tggacactgc ctcacgctgg ccgggctcat tactatagaa ttacctacgg ggagacaggc    840
              gggaactctc ccgtgcagga attcaccgtg cctggaaggg gcgtgactgc caccatcagt    900
              gggctgaagc caggagtgga ctacacaatt accgtgtacg ctgtgactgt gaccacaact    960
              aaagtgatcc actacaaacc catctctatt aattatcgga ccgaaatt                1008
              <210>   292
              <211>   917
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 292
              cccggacccc tgaggtcaca tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca     60
              agttcaactg gtacgtggac ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg    120
              agcagtacaa cagcacgtac cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc    180
                                                  Page 171

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga   240
              aaaccatctc caaagccaaa gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat   300
              cccgggatga gctgaccaag aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc   360
              ccagcgacat cgccgtggag tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca   420
              cgcctcccgt gctggactcc gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca   480
<removed-apn>
              agagcaggtg gcagcagggg aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca   540
              accactacac gcagaagagc ctctccctgt ctcccgagct gcagctggag gaaagcgccg   600
              ctgaggctca ggacggagaa ctggatggcg tgagcgacgt gccacgggat ctagaagtgg   660
              tggctgctac ccccacaagc ttgctgatca gctgggacgc tccgagaggt ctggctcgat   720
              attaccgcat cacttacggc gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgt   780
              tcggtcgtgg taccacagct accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca   840
              ctgtgtatgc tgtcactatc gaccgtgacg gtacccgcag cttcgaccca atttccatta   900
              attaccggac cgaaatt                                                  917
              <210>   293
              <211>   1017
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 293
              gacaaaactc acacatgccc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc    60
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca   120
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac   180
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac   240
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag   300
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa   360
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag   420
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag   480
                                                  Page 172

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc    540
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg    600
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc    660
              ctctccctgt ctcccgagct gcagctggag gaaagcgccg ctgaggctca ggacggagaa    720
              ctggatggcg tgagcgacgt gccacgggat ctagaagtgg tggctgctac ccccacaagc    780
<removed-apn>
              ttgctgatca gctgggacgc tccggctggt ctggctcgat attaccgcat cacttacggc    840
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgg tcggtcgtgg taacacagct    900
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactatc    960
              ttccgtgacg gtcccgtcac ctgggaccca atttccatta attaccggac cgaaatt      1017
              <210>   294
              <211>   1017
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 294
              gacaaaactc acacatgccc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc     60
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca    120
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac    180
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac    240
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag    300
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa    360
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag    420
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag    480
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc    540
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg    600
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc    660
              ctctccctgt ctcccgagct gcagctggag gaaagcgccg ctgaggctca ggacggagaa    720
                                                  Page 173

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              ctggatggcg tgagcgacgt gccacgggat ctagaagtgg tggctgctac ccccacaagc    780
              ttgctgatca gctgggacgc tccgaagggt ctggctcgat attaccgcat cacttacggc    840
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgg tcggtcgtgg taacacagct    900
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactatc    960
              ttccgtgacg gtcccgtcac ctgggaccca atttccatta attaccggac cgaaatt      1017
<removed-apn>
              <210>   295
              <211>   1020
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 295
              gacaaaactc acacatgccc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc     60
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca    120
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac    180
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac    240
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag    300
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa    360
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag    420
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag    480
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc    540
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg    600
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc    660
              ctctccctgt ctcccgagct gcagctggag gaaagcgccg ctgaggctca ggacggagaa    720
              ctggatggcg tgagcgacgt gccacgggat ctagaagtgg tggctgctac ccccacaagc    780
              ttgctgatca gctggtctct gccgaatccg ggtaacgccc attattaccg catcacttac    840
              ggcgaaacag gaggcaatag ccctgtccag gagttcactg tgcctggtcg tggtgttaca    900
              gctaccatca gcggccttaa acctggcgtt gattatacca tcactgtgta tgctgtcact    960
                                                  Page 174

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              gttactgaca caggtttcat cacgtacaaa ccaatttcca ttaattaccg gaccgaaatt   1020
              <210>   296
              <211>   1020
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 296
              gacaaaactc acacatgccc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc     60
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca    120
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac    180
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac    240
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag    300
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa    360
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag    420
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag    480
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc    540
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg    600
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc    660
              ctctccctgt ctcccgagct gcagctggag gaaagcgccg ctgaggctca ggacggagaa    720
              ctggatggcg tgagcgacgt gccacgggat ctagaagtgg tggctgctac ccccacaagc    780
              ttgctgatca gctggtctct gccgcaccaa ggtaaagcca attattaccg catcacttac    840
              ggcgaaacag gaggcaatag ccctgtccag gagttcactg tgcctggtcg tggtgttaca    900
              gctaccatca gcggccttaa acctggcgtt gattatacca tcactgtgta tgctgtcact    960
              gttactgata cagggtacct caagtacaaa ccaatttcca ttaattaccg gaccgaaatt   1020
              <210>   297
              <211>   987
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 175

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 297
              ggcgtgagcg acgtgccccg ggatctagaa gtggtggctg ctacccccac aagcttgctg    60
              atcagctggg acgctccgag aggtctggct cgatattacc gcatcactta cggcgaaaca   120
              ggaggcaata gccctgtcca ggagttcact gtgttcggtc gtggtaccac agctaccatc   180
<removed-apn>
              agcggcctta aacctggcgt tgattatacc atcactgtgt atgctgtcac tatcgaccgt   240
              gacggtaccc gcagcttcga cccaatttcc attaattacc ggaccgaaat tgagcctaag   300
              agctccgaca aaacccacac atgcccacct tgtccagccc ccgaactgct gggcggccct   360
              tcagtcttcc tcttcccccc aaaacccaag gacaccctca tgatctcccg gacccctgag   420
              gtcacatgcg tggtggtgga cgtgagccac gaagaccctg aggtcaagtt caactggtac   480
              gtggacggcg tggaggtgca taatgccaag acaaagccgc gggaggagca gtacaacagc   540
              acgtaccgtg tggtcagcgt cctcaccgtc ctgcaccagg actggctgaa tggcaaggag   600
              tacaagtgca aggtctccaa caaagccctc ccagccccca tcgagaaaac catctccaaa   660
              gccaaagggc agccccgaga accacaggtg tacaccctgc ccccatcccg ggatgagctg   720
              accaagaacc aggtcagcct gacctgcctg gtcaaaggct tctatcccag cgacatcgcc   780
              gtggagtggg agagcaatgg gcagccggag aacaactaca agaccacgcc tcccgtgttg   840
              gactccgacg gctccttctt cctctacagc aagctcaccg tggacaagag caggtggcag   900
              caggggaacg tcttctcatg ctccgtgatg catgaggctc tgcacaacca ctacacgcag   960
              aagagcctct ccctgtctcc cgggaaa                                       987
              <210>   298
              <211>   987
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 298
              ggcgtgagcg acgtgccccg ggatctagaa gtggtggctg ctacccccac aagcttgctg    60
              atcagctggg acgctccggc tggtctggct cgatattacc gcatcactta cggcgaaaca   120
                                                  Page 176

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              ggaggcaata gccctgtcca ggagttcact gtggtcggtc gtggtaacac agctaccatc   180
              agcggcctta aacctggcgt tgattatacc atcactgtgt atgctgtcac tatcttccgt   240
              gacggtcccg tcacctggga cccaatttcc attaattacc ggaccgaaat tgagcctaag   300
              agctccgaca aaacccacac atgcccacct tgtccagccc ccgaactgct gggcggccct   360
              tcagtcttcc tcttcccccc aaaacccaag gacaccctca tgatctcccg gacccctgag   420
<removed-apn>
              gtcacatgcg tggtggtgga cgtgagccac gaagaccctg aggtcaagtt caactggtac   480
              gtggacggcg tggaggtgca taatgccaag acaaagccgc gggaggagca gtacaacagc   540
              acgtaccgtg tggtcagcgt cctcaccgtc ctgcaccagg actggctgaa tggcaaggag   600
              tacaagtgca aggtctccaa caaagccctc ccagccccca tcgagaaaac catctccaaa   660
              gccaaagggc agccccgaga accacaggtg tacaccctgc ccccatcccg ggatgagctg   720
              accaagaacc aggtcagcct gacctgcctg gtcaaaggct tctatcccag cgacatcgcc   780
              gtggagtggg agagcaatgg gcagccggag aacaactaca agaccacgcc tcccgtgttg   840
              gactccgacg gctccttctt cctctacagc aagctcaccg tggacaagag caggtggcag   900
              caggggaacg tcttctcatg ctccgtgatg catgaggctc tgcacaacca ctacacgcag   960
              aagagcctct ccctgtctcc cgggaaa                                       987
              <210>   299
              <211>   987
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 299
              ggcgtgagcg acgtgccccg ggatctagaa gtggtggctg ctacccccac aagcttgctg    60
              atcagctggg acgctccgaa gggtctggct cgatattacc gcatcactta cggcgaaaca   120
              ggaggcaata gccctgtcca ggagttcact gtggtcggtc gtggtaacac agctaccatc   180
              agcggcctta aacctggcgt tgattatacc atcactgtgt atgctgtcac tatcttccgt   240
              gacggtcccg tcacctggga cccaatttcc attaattacc ggaccgaaat tgagcctaag   300
              agctccgaca aaacccacac atgcccacct tgtccagccc ccgaactgct gggcggccct   360
                                                  Page 177

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              tcagtcttcc tcttcccccc aaaacccaag gacaccctca tgatctcccg gacccctgag   420
              gtcacatgcg tggtggtgga cgtgagccac gaagaccctg aggtcaagtt caactggtac   480
              gtggacggcg tggaggtgca taatgccaag acaaagccgc gggaggagca gtacaacagc   540
              acgtaccgtg tggtcagcgt cctcaccgtc ctgcaccagg actggctgaa tggcaaggag   600
              tacaagtgca aggtctccaa caaagccctc ccagccccca tcgagaaaac catctccaaa   660
<removed-apn>
              gccaaagggc agccccgaga accacaggtg tacaccctgc ccccatcccg ggatgagctg   720
              accaagaacc aggtcagcct gacctgcctg gtcaaaggct tctatcccag cgacatcgcc   780
              gtggagtggg agagcaatgg gcagccggag aacaactaca agaccacgcc tcccgtgttg   840
              gactccgacg gctccttctt cctctacagc aagctcaccg tggacaagag caggtggcag   900
              caggggaacg tcttctcatg ctccgtgatg catgaggctc tgcacaacca ctacacgcag   960
              aagagcctct ccctgtctcc cgggaaa                                       987
              <210>   300
              <211>   990
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 300
              ggcgtgagcg acgtgccccg ggatctagaa gtggtggctg ctacccccac aagcttgctg    60
              atcagctggt ctctgccgaa tccgggtaac gcccattatt accgcatcac ttacggcgaa   120
              acaggaggca atagccctgt ccaggagttc actgtgcctg gtcgtggtgt tacagctacc   180
              atcagcggcc ttaaacctgg cgttgattat accatcactg tgtatgctgt cactgttact   240
              gacacaggtt tcatcacgta caaaccaatt tccattaatt accggaccga aattgagcct   300
              aagagctccg acaaaaccca cacatgccca ccttgtccag cccccgaact gctgggcggc   360
              ccttcagtct tcctcttccc cccaaaaccc aaggacaccc tcatgatctc ccggacccct   420
              gaggtcacat gcgtggtggt ggacgtgagc cacgaagacc ctgaggtcaa gttcaactgg   480
              tacgtggacg gcgtggaggt gcataatgcc aagacaaagc cgcgggagga gcagtacaac   540
              agcacgtacc gtgtggtcag cgtcctcacc gtcctgcacc aggactggct gaatggcaag   600
                                                  Page 178

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              gagtacaagt gcaaggtctc caacaaagcc ctcccagccc ccatcgagaa aaccatctcc   660
              aaagccaaag ggcagccccg agaaccacag gtgtacaccc tgcccccatc ccgggatgag   720
              ctgaccaaga accaggtcag cctgacctgc ctggtcaaag gcttctatcc cagcgacatc   780
              gccgtggagt gggagagcaa tgggcagccg gagaacaact acaagaccac gcctcccgtg   840
              ttggactccg acggctcctt cttcctctac agcaagctca ccgtggacaa gagcaggtgg   900
<removed-apn>
              cagcagggga acgtcttctc atgctccgtg atgcatgagg ctctgcacaa ccactacacg   960
              cagaagagcc tctccctgtc tcccgggaaa                                    990
              <210>   301
              <211>   990
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 301
              ggcgtgagcg acgtgccccg ggatctagaa gtggtggctg ctacccccac aagcttgctg    60
              atcagctggt ctctgccgca ccaaggtaaa gccaattatt accgcatcac ttacggcgaa   120
              acaggaggca atagccctgt ccaggagttc actgtgcctg gtcgtggtgt tacagctacc   180
              atcagcggcc ttaaacctgg cgttgattat accatcactg tgtatgctgt cactgttact   240
              gatacagggt acctcaagta caaaccaatt tccattaatt accggaccga aattgagcct   300
              aagagctccg acaaaaccca cacatgccca ccttgtccag cccccgaact gctgggcggc   360
              ccttcagtct tcctcttccc cccaaaaccc aaggacaccc tcatgatctc ccggacccct   420
              gaggtcacat gcgtggtggt ggacgtgagc cacgaagacc ctgaggtcaa gttcaactgg   480
              tacgtggacg gcgtggaggt gcataatgcc aagacaaagc cgcgggagga gcagtacaac   540
              agcacgtacc gtgtggtcag cgtcctcacc gtcctgcacc aggactggct gaatggcaag   600
              gagtacaagt gcaaggtctc caacaaagcc ctcccagccc ccatcgagaa aaccatctcc   660
              aaagccaaag ggcagccccg agaaccacag gtgtacaccc tgcccccatc ccgggatgag   720
              ctgaccaaga accaggtcag cctgacctgc ctggtcaaag gcttctatcc cagcgacatc   780
              gccgtggagt gggagagcaa tgggcagccg gagaacaact acaagaccac gcctcccgtg   840
                                                  Page 179

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              ttggactccg acggctcctt cttcctctac agcaagctca ccgtggacaa gagcaggtgg    900
              cagcagggga acgtcttctc atgctccgtg atgcatgagg ctctgcacaa ccactacacg    960
              cagaagagcc tctccctgtc tcccgggaaa                                     990
              <210>   302
              <211>   1020
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 302
              gacaaaactc acacatgccc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc     60
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca    120
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac    180
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac    240
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag    300
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa    360
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag    420
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag    480
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc    540
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg    600
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc    660
              ctctccctgt ctcccgagct gcagctggag gaaagcgccg ctgaggctca ggaaggagaa    720
              ctggaaggcg tgagcgacgt gccacgggat ctagaagtgg tggctgctac ccccacaagc    780
              ttgctgatct cctggacact gcctcacgct ggccgggctc attactatag aattacctac    840
              ggggagacag gcgggaactc tcccgtgcag gaattcaccg tgcctggaag gggcgtgact    900
              gccaccatca gtgggctgaa gccaggagtg gactacacaa ttaccgtgta cgctgtgact    960
              gtgaccacaa ctaaagtgat ccactacaaa cccatctcta ttaattatcg gaccgaaatt   1020
              <210>   303
                                                  Page 180

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   1017
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 303
              gacaaaactc acacatgccc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc     60
<removed-apn>
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca    120
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac    180
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac    240
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag    300
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa    360
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag    420
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag    480
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc    540
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg    600
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc    660
              ctctccctgt ctcccgagct gcagctggag gaaagcgccg ctgaggctca ggaaggagaa    720
              ctggaaggcg tgagcgacgt gccacgggat ctagaagtgg tggctgctac ccccacaagc    780
              ttgctgatca gctgggacgc tccggctggt ctggctcgat attaccgcat cacttacggc    840
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgg tcggtcgtgg taacacagct    900
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactatc    960
              ttccgtgacg gtcccgtcac ctgggaccca atttccatta attaccggac cgaaatt      1017
              <210>   304
              <211>   1017
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   304
                                                  Page 181

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              gacaaaactc acacatgccc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc     60
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca    120
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac    180
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac    240
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag    300
<removed-apn>
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa    360
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag    420
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag    480
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc    540
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg    600
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc    660
              ctctccctgt ctcccgagct gcagctggag gaaagcgccg ctgaggctca ggaaggagaa    720
              ctggaaggcg tgagcgacgt gccacgggat ctagaagtgg tggctgctac ccccacaagc    780
              ttgctgatca gctgggacgc tccgaagggt ctggctcgat attaccgcat cacttacggc    840
              gaaacaggag gcaatagccc tgtccaggag ttcactgtgg tcggtcgtgg taacacagct    900
              accatcagcg gccttaaacc tggcgttgat tataccatca ctgtgtatgc tgtcactatc    960
              ttccgtgacg gtcccgtcac ctgggaccca atttccatta attaccggac cgaaatt      1017
              <210>   305
              <211>   1020
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 305
              gacaaaactc acacatgccc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc     60
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca    120
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac    180
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac    240
                                                  Page 182

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag    300
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa    360
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggatga gctgaccaag    420
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag    480
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc    540
<removed-apn>
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg    600
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag gctctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc    660
              ctctccctgt ctcccgagct gcagctggag gaaagcgccg ctgaggctca ggaaggagaa    720
              ctggaaggcg tgagcgacgt gccacgggat ctagaagtgg tggctgctac ccccacaagc    780
              ttgctgatca gctggtctct gccgcaccaa ggtaaagcca attattaccg catcacttac    840
              ggcgaaacag gaggcaatag ccctgtccag gagttcactg tgcctggtcg tggtgttaca    900
              gctaccatca gcggccttaa acctggcgtt gattatacca tcactgtgta tgctgtcact    960
              gttactgata cagggtacct caagtacaaa ccaatttcca ttaattaccg gaccgaaatt   1020
              <210>   306
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   306
              Met Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   307
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   307
              Gly Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu
                                                    Page 183

                                                10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              1                5
              <210>   308
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   308
              Val Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu
              1               5
              <210>   309
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   309
              Ser Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu
              1               5
              <210>   310
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   310
              Asp Val Pro Arg Asp Leu
              1               5
              <210>   311
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                  Page 184

                                            10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   311
              Val Pro Arg Asp Leu
              1               5
              <210>   312
              <211>   4
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   312
              Pro Arg Asp Leu
              1
              <210>   313
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   313
              Glu Ile Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser
              1               5
              <210>   314
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   314
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Cys
              1               5
              <210>   315
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
                                              Page 185

                                            10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   315
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   316
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   316
              Glu Ile Asp Lys
              1
              <210>   317
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   317
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser
              1               5
              <210>   318
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   318
              Glu Ile Glu Lys Pro Ser Gln
              1               5
                                              Page 186

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   319
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
<removed-apn>
              <400>   319
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln Leu Glu
              1               5
              <210>   320
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   320
              Glu Ile Glu Asp Glu Asp Glu Asp Glu Asp Glu Asp
              1               5                   10
              <210>   321
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   321
              Glu Gly Ser Gly Ser
              1               5
              <210>   322
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   322
                                                    Page 187

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Cys Gln
              1               5
              <210>   323
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   323
              Glu Gly Ser Gly Cys
              1               5
              <210>   324
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   324
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Cys Gln Leu Glu
              1               5
              <210>   325
              <211>   13
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   325
              Glu Ile Asp Lys Pro Ser Gln His His His His His His
              1               5                   10
              <210>   326
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                    Page 188

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   326
              Gly Ser Gly Cys His His His His His His
              1               5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   327
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   327
              Glu Gly Ser Gly Cys His His His His His His
              1               5                   10
              <210>   328
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   328
              His His His His His His
              1               5
              <210>   329
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   329
              Leu Tyr Phe Asn Gly Lys Glu Gln Ile Ile Tyr Gly Lys Ile Pro Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Met
                                                  Page 189

                                               10468802_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   330
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   330
              Pro His Thr His Leu Val His Gln Ala Asn Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   331
              <211>   87
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   331
              Glu Val Val Ala Ala Thr Pro Thr Ser Leu Leu Ile Ser Trp Ser Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro His Gln Gly Lys Ala Asn Tyr Tyr Arg Ile Thr Tyr Gly Glu Thr
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Gly Asn Ser Pro Val Gln Glu Phe Thr Val Pro Gly Arg Gly Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Ala Thr Ile Ser Gly Leu Lys Pro Gly Val Asp Tyr Thr Ile Thr
                  50                  55                  60
              Val Tyr Ala Val Thr Val Thr Asp Thr Gly Tyr Leu Lys Tyr Lys Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ile Ser Ile Asn Tyr Arg Thr
                              85
                                                  Page 190

