  ABSTRACT
  Contact lenses and methods for designing and manufacturing contact lenses are disclosed. The
  contact lenses comprise a zone outside a central optic zone having a thickness profile with a varying
  thickness. The thickness profile provides rotational force to rotationally orient the contact lens when
5 applied to a recipient eye. The thickness profile includes substantially curvilinear lines of constant
  thickness that extend generally horizontally across the lens. The curvilinear lines of substantially
  constant thickness may match the contact lines of the margins of at least one of the eyelids of the
  recipient.
  FIG. IA

                                        1/4
                                                                     100
                                                          100
                                                                                    3
       A---                      -'                          A
                      A                                      A
 6     M----    --------------------
              ---            --------------------
                                         ------------ ------
                                                           -- MA
                                                                  M             2
                5                 B                           B
       B                                                      B
            B.            .. ------
                       ....       ----------
                                           ---                B
                                                        4
              3
                                                                                  3
                            Figure 1A                                 Figure 1B
                                                 200
                                                                 200
             AA A-A3
A-A
                                                             A-A
     6             ---
                     - ---
                         ----           ----
                                           -----                                2
M-M                                                          M-M
B-B
    5                                                        B-B
        B-B
        B-B
                                                                                  3
                                                      3
                            Figure 2A                                 Figure 2B

                                                       I
                                      Contact lens stabilisation
                                                     Field
           The field of this disclosure relates to contact lenses and methods of design and
   manufacture of contact lenses. More particularly, this disclosure relates to contact lenses
 5 comprising a stabilisation mechanism.
                                                 Background
            Certain contact lens designs require rotational stabilisation. An example is a toric contact
   lens designed to correct astigmatism in a recipient eye.
           A method of stabilisation is to provide a wedge-shaped thickness profile within a
10 peripheral area of the contact lens. The peripheral area of a lens is the area outside of a central
   optical zone in which optical correction is applied. In some existing lens designs the vertical
   wedge profile is symmetric around a horizontal meridian, with the lens thinning inferiorly and
   superiorly from a central horizontal meridian. In other existing lens designs the wedge profile is
   provided in the form of a prism ballast, where the thickness increases inferiorly.
15          There is continued demand for contact lenses with a stabilization mechanism and
   accordingly ongoing interest in improved or useful alternative stabilization mechanisms.
            Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
   acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general
   knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be
20 ascertained, understood and regarded as relevant by a person skilled in the art.
                                                  Summary
            Embodiments of contact lenses with rotational stabilisation mechanisms are disclosed.
            In certain embodiments a contact lens comprises an anterior surface, a posterior surface
   and an edge joining the anterior surface and posterior surface. The anterior and posterior surface
25 forms a central optic zone and a peripheral zone outside the central optic zone. The peripheral
   zone may have a thickness profile with a varying thickness for providing rotational force to tend
   to rotationally orient the contact lens in a target orientation (the rotational stabilisation

                                                       2
   mechanism). The thickness profile may have substantially curvilinear lines of constant thickness
   (or at least substantially constant thickness) that, when the lens is in the target orientation, extend
   generally horizontally across the lens.
            In certain embodiments the substantially curvilinear lines of constant thickness (or at
 5 least substantially constant thickness) may substantially match the contact lines of the margins of
   at least one of the eyelids of a recipient, or a population, sub-population or group average.
            In certain embodiments the contact lens may further comprise an outer peripheral zone
   extending between the peripheral zone and the edge. The outer peripheral zone may have a
   thickness profile that smoothly transitions between the outer extremity of the peripheral zone and
10 the edge.
            In certain embodiments the lines of constant thickness (or at least substantially constant
   thickness) are located substantially along the intersection of a plane at different angles of rotation
   and the anterior and/or posterior surface of the contact lens, the plane having a fixed axis of
   rotation posterior to the lens.
15          In certain embodiments the contact lens may have particular application where the optic
   zone includes rotationally asymmetrical optics, for example, where the central optic zone
   includes optics for correction of astigmatism.
            In certain embodiments a method of producing parameters for the manufacture of a
   contact lens comprising an anterior surface, a posterior surface and an edge may be provided.
20 The method may comprise defining a thickness profile that varies between the anterior surface
   and the posterior surface. The thickness profile may be adapted to provide a rotational force on
   the contact lens that tends to orient the contact lens in a target rotational orientation when applied
   to a recipient eye. The thickness profile may comprise non-linear lines of constant thickness (or
   at least substantially constant thickness) that, when the lens is in the target orientation, extend
25 generally horizontally across the lens and more closely match the contact lines of the margins of
   at least one of the eye lids of the recipient with the contact lens in comparison to linear lines
   across the substantially same horizontal meridian of the lens.
            In certain embodiments a method of manufacturing a contact lens may comprise forming
   a contact lens body with an anterior surface, a posterior surface and an edge joining the anterior

                                                           3
   and posterior surfaces, wherein the contact lens comprises at least a central optic zone and a
   peripheral zone outside the central optic zone. Within the peripheral zone the lens has a thickness
   profile with parameters selected using a method as described in the preceding paragraph.
           In certain embodiments, the contact lens may comprise, an outer peripheral zone about the
 5 peripheral zone, the outer peripheral zone extending to the edge, wherein the method includes
   forming the outer peripheral zone to have a thickness profile that provides a smooth transition (or
   at least a substantially smooth transition) in thickness between the outer extremity of the peripheral
   zone and the edge.
           Further aspects of the embodiments described herein will become apparent from the following
10 description, given by way of example and with reference to the accompanying drawings.
          According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a contact lens comprising:
           an anterior surface;
           a posterior surface;
           an edge joining the anterior and posterior surfaces;
15        the anterior and posterior surfaces forming a central optic zone and a peripheral zone outside
   the central optic zone;
          the peripheral zone having a thickness profile with a varying thickness for providing rotational
   force to tend to rotationally orient the contact lens in a target orientation, the thickness profile
   including substantially curvilinear lines of substantially constant thickness that, when the lens is in
20 the target orientation, extend generally horizontally across the lens.
          According to a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of producing
   parameters for the manufacture of a contact lens comprising an anterior surface, a posterior surface
   and an edge, the method comprising defining a thickness profile that varies between the anterior
   surface and the posterior surface, the thickness profile:
25         adapted to provide a rotational force on the contact lens that tends to orient the contact lens in
   a target rotational orientation when applied to a recipient eye, and
           including non-linear lines of constant thickness that, when the lens is in the target orientation,
   extend generally horizontally across the lens and more closely match the contact lines of the margins
   of at least one of the eyelids of the recipient with the contact lens in comparison to linear lines across
30 the substantially same horizontal meridian of the lens.

                                                          3a
          According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of manufacturing a
   contact lens, the method including forming a contact lens body with an anterior surface, a posterior
   surface and an edge joining the anterior and posterior surfaces, wherein the contact lens includes at
   least a central optic zone and a peripheral zone outside the central optic zone, and within the
 5 peripheral zone the lens has a thickness profile with parameters selected according to the previous
   aspect.
          According to a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a contact lens comprising:
           an anterior surface;
           a posterior surface;
10         an edge joining the anterior and posterior surfaces;
          the anterior and posterior surfaces forming a central optic zone and a peripheral zone outside
   the central optic zone;
           wherein within at least the peripheral zone the contact lens has a thickness profile to provide a
   rotational force on the contact lens that tends to orient the contact lens in a target rotational
15 orientation when applied to a recipient eye, the thickness profile comprising lines of constant
   thickness that, when the lens is in the target orientation, extend generally horizontally across the lens
   and more closely match the contact lines of the margins of a human eyelid with the contact lens in
   comparison to linear lines extending across substantially same horizontal meridian of the lens.
           Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims, the
20 words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to
   an exclusive or exhaustive sense: that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not limited to".
                                         Brief description of the drawings
           Figure IA is a diagrammatic representation (not to scale) of a front, orthographic projection
25 of an embodiment of a contact lens comprising a prism ballast type rotational stabilisation
   mechanism.
           Figure 1B shows an embodiment of a thickness profile through the vertical centre of the
   contact lens in Figure IA.
           Figure 2A is a diagrammatic representation (not to scale) of a front, orthographic projection
30 of an embodiment of a contact lens comprising a double slab-off ballast type rotational
   stabilisation mechanism.
           Figure 2B shows an embodiment of a thickness profile through the vertical centre of the

                                                       3b
  contact lens in Figure 2A.
          Figure 3 shows a side, orthographic projection of an embodiment of a contact lens and
  illustrates an embodiment of a method to identify a thickness profile for the contact lens.
          Figure 4 shows a side, orthographic projection of an embodiment of the lens a contact
5 lens including a prism ballast type rotational stabilisation mechanism.

                                                     4
           Figure 5A is a diagrammatic representation (not to scale) of a front, orthographic
   projection of an embodiment of a contact lens with a combination of linear and curvilinear lines
   of substantially constant thickness.
           Figure 5B is a diagrammatic representation (not to scale) of a front, orthographic
 5 projection of an embodiment of a contact lens with some of the lines of substantially constant
   thickness in piecemeal form.
                                Detailed description of the embodiments
            Exemplary embodiments are described below with reference to the accompanying
   figures. For aid of explanation, a frame of reference is defined for Figures 1 and 2 in relation to a
10 person wearing the depicted contact lenses, standing erect and looking straight ahead, whereby
   the direction out of the page represents the anterior direction and the direction towards the top of
   the page represents vertically up. The contact lenses are shown in Figures 1 and 2 in their desired
   orientation.
            Certain embodiments described herein relate to a rotational stabilisation mechanism for a
15 contact lens. In certain embodiments, an objective of the rotational stabilisation mechanism may
   be to provide a rotational force that tends to orient the lens in a particular orientation when fitted
   onto the eye of a recipient. The stabilisation mechanism may be formed as a thickness profile of
   the contact lens, which varies in the vertical direction so that, when the lens is in the target
   orientation, the thickness profile results in an even (or substantially even) spread of the pressure
20 over a relatively large area along the lid margin (or in close proximity to the lid margin).
            To achieve the even spread of pressure, the contact lens may be manufactured with a
   curvilinear horizontal thickness profile. The curvilinear thickness profile may more closely
   resemble the contact lines of the margins of the eyelids of the recipient than a linear horizontal
   thickness profile. The shape of the margins of the eye-lids may be defined with reference to the
25  eye-lids at rest in an open position, with reference to the eye-lids in motion during blinking, or
   with reference to both the eye-lids at rest and in motion. For example, in certain embodiments
   the upper and/or lower regions of the lens may have a curvilinear horizontal thickness profile
   approximating the eye-lid at rest and the more central regions may have a curvilinear horizontal
   thickness profile approximating the eye-lid shape during blinking, when passing the central
30 region of the lens. The lens shape may transition between the curvilinear horizontal thickness

                                                     5
   profiles, for example by gradually reducing the extent of curvature if the relevant eye-lid shape
   flattens during blinking.
           In certain embodiments the curvilinear thickness profile may be formed by providing
   substantially constant lens thickness along lines of intersection between a horizontal plane at
 5 different angles of rotation and a surface of the contact lens, the plane having a fixed axis of
   rotation posterior to the lens. In other words, the thickness is relatively constant along lines that
   define constant angular distance from a central horizontal meridian of the lens, where the point
   of determination of the angular distance (the axis of rotation) is posterior to the contact lens. The
   axis of rotation may be selected to approximate an axis of rotation defined for the upper eyelid of
10 the recipient. The recipient may be a specific individual, or a notional recipient, for example,
   defined by data from a population, sub-population or other specified group of recipients and the
   axis of rotation and/or other parameters used to define the curvilinear thickness profile selected
   with reference to this data.
            Figure 1 shows a diagrammatic representation of an embodiment of a contact lens 100
15 having a thickness profile as described herein. Figure 1A shows a view of the anterior side of the
   contact lens 100 and Figure lB shows a cross-section through the vertical centre of the contact
   lens 100. The contact lens 100 may be a hard contact lens (e.g. rigid gas permeable RGP), a soft
   contact lens (e.g. hydrogel or silicone hydrogel), or a combination lens formed of hard and soft
   materials (e.g. hard materials centrally, moulded in a soft peripheral shell).
20          The contact lens comprises a convex anterior surface 1, a concave posterior surface 2 and
   an edge 3 joining the anterior and posterior surfaces 1, 2. Within the edge 3 different zones may
   be provided, which generally perform different functions. In certain embodiments three zones
   may be provided, an outer peripheral zone 4, an inner peripheral zone 5 and a central optic zone
   6. The central optic zone 6 may have any suitable dimensions. For example, the central optic
25 zone 6 may have a diameter between about 3 mm and about 8 mm. The inner peripheral zone 5
   may extend out to a diameter of up to approximately 15 mm, provided that where the curvilinear
   horizontal thickness profile described herein is provided in the inner peripheral zone 5, it is
   larger in dimension than the central optic zone 6 by a sufficient amount to provide effective
   rotational force to orient the lens, at least during use on a recipient when standing erect and
30 looking straight ahead. If provided, an outer peripheral zone 4 may be provided outside of the

                                                    6
   inner peripheral zone 5 and extend the dimension of the lens by between about 0.5 mm to about
   2 mm.
           The outer peripheral zone 4 may provide a smooth transition between the edge 3 and the
   inner peripheral zone 5 and may allow for the contact lens to have a uniform edge thickness. As
 5 best seen from Figure IB, the contact lens shown in Figure 1 is a prism ballast type lens, which
   has increasing thickness towards the bottom of the lens to provide rotational stabilisation. As
   shown in the embodiment in Figure 1 the outer peripheral zone 4 may be wider at the bottom of
   the lens than at the top. In certain embodiments, this may provide a larger transition distance
   between the relatively thicker bottom of the inner peripheral zone 5 and the peripheral 3. In
10 certain embodiments, the outer extremity of the outer peripheral zone 4 may be curved to create
   a smooth edge 3, which may improve comfort/reduce irritation.
           In certain embodiments, the inner peripheral zone 5 may assist with locating the lens on
   the eye. As described in more detail below, in certain embodiments, it is this zone that provides
   the predominant rotational stabilisation forces. The thickness of the contact lens 100 in this zone
15 varies in line with the requirements for the rotational stabilisation mechanism. Generally the
   thickness of the lens in this zone may vary between 0.08 mm to 0.4 mm (e.g., between 0.08 mm
   to 0.2 mm, between 0.08 mm to 0.3 mm, between 0.1 mm to 0.2 mm, between 0.1 mm to 0.3
   mm, between 0.1 mm to 0.4 mm, between 0.15 mm to 0.25 mm, between 0.15 mm to 0.3 mm,
   between 0.15 mm to 0.35 mm, or between 0.15 mm to 0.4 mm. In certain embodiments, the
20 thickness of the inner peripheral zone may vary by about 0.1mm, 0.15 mm, 0.2 mm, 0.25 mm,
   0.3mm, 0.35 mm, or 0.4 mm. To avoid discontinuity, which may cause irritation or discomfort,
   the thickness of the outer extremity of the inner peripheral zone 5 and the inner extremity of the
   outer peripheral zone 6 along any given half meridian may be equal, and the lens design process
   may be constrained to create this equality of thickness at the transition between these zones.
25 Alternatively, in certain embodiments, a smooth transition zone may be defined between the
   zones, for example a transition zone of radial width within a range between about 0.2 mm to
   about 0.5 mm. The same approach may be taken for the transition between the inner peripheral
   zone 5 and the central optic zone 6.
           The central optic zone 6 provides vision correction optics. The vision correction optics
30 may vary widely between embodiments described herein, depending on the requirements for the
   recipient. For example the vision correction optics may correct any combination of myopia,

                                                     7
   hyperopia, astigmatism, coma and/or provide a multifocal lens for presbyopia or provide
   stimulus for addressing myopia progression. The stabilisation mechanisms may have particular
   utility when the vision correction optics are rotationally asymmetrical. For example, prism
   ballasted lenses can be of the 'prism free optic' type or may have a prismatic optic zone. The
 5 former may have a vertical thickness profile through the central optic zone 6 which is essentially
   parallel, while the latter has a thickness profile that increases towards the inferior to roughly
   match that of the inner peripheral zone 5.
           While the central optic zone 6 is shown as circular or disc-shaped in Figures 1 and 2, the
   shape may vary for either or both of the anterior and posterior surfaces. For example, for a toric
10 contact lens the front optic zone, which contains the spherical power may be circular, but the
   back optic zone with the cylinder power may be oval in shape.
           As described above, a typical situation in which a contact lens may benefit from a
   stabilisation mechanism is when the vision correction optics are more effective in a particular
   orientation. A common scenario where this may occur is a toric lens for correcting astigmatism.
15 Also as described herein, the particular orientation for the example lens shown in Figure 1 is as
   shown on the page (i.e. assuming that vertically up for the wearer aligns with the direction
   towards the top of the page).
           Referring specifically to Figure 1A, the dashed generally horizontal lines represent lines
   of constant thickness (or at least substantially constant thickness). Apart from along the central
20 horizontal meridian, which is marked M-M, the lines of constant thickness are curvilinear. The
   curvilinear lines of constant thickness for the upper hemisphere of the lens are marked A-A and
   the curvilinear lines of constant thickness for the lower hemisphere of the lens are marked B-B.
   The lines A-A and B-B may represent a different thickness, although it will be appreciated that
   in certain embodiments some or all of lines A-A may have a corresponding line B-B of the same
25 thickness (or substantially the same thickness). The curvilinear lines more closely match the
   profile of the margins of the eyelids of a human wearer on the anterior surface 1 of the contact
   lens 100 in comparison to if the lines of constant thickness were linear. Due to the closer
   matching profile, the pressure between the eyelids and the lens may be more widely distributed,
   particularly when the lens is in the desired orientation or close to the desired orientation. As will
30 be appreciated from examples described herein, the dashed generally horizontal lines represent

                                                      8
   the general thickness profile of the lens and embodiments will have lines of constant thickness
   that vary in shape from those shown, while still being formed or characterised by curved lines.
           In Figure 1A the lines of constant thickness A-A, B-B and M-M are extended beyond the
   inner peripheral zone 5 so as to also pass through the outer peripheral zone 4 and the central
 5 optic zone 6. However, this is to better illustrate the curvilinear shape of the lines A-A and B-B.
   In certain embodiments, within the outer peripheral zone 4 and the central optic zone 6 the
   thickness of the lens may not be constant along the lines A-A, B-B and M-M. Instead, the
   thickness may vary, in the case of the outer peripheral zone 4 to transition between the inner
   peripheral zone 5 and edge 3 and in the case of the central optic zone 4 according to the required
10 refractive properties of this zone. In other words, in certain embodiments, the lines of constant
   thickness may only apply to the inner peripheral zone 5. Figure 2 discussed herein illustrates
   dashed lines representing constant thickness included in inner peripheral zone, but not in the
   central optic zone 6 or the outer peripheral zone 4.
           Figure 2 shows a contact lens 200 according to certain embodiments. The contact lens
15 200 is a double slab-off type contact lens, in which the lens thickness reduces away from the
   central meridian towards the top and bottom of the lens. The contact lens 200 includes an edge 3,
   outer peripheral zone 4, inner peripheral zone 5 and central optic zone 6. These zones may be
   similar to and perform the functions of the zones described herein for the contact lens 100.
   Accordingly a detailed description of the zones is not repeated and like reference numerals are
20 used in Figures 1 and 2 to represent like features.
           The embodiment of double slab-off type contact lens shown in Figure 2 has a
   substantially symmetrical thickness profile across the horizontal central meridian. Accordingly,
   the outer peripheral zone 4 has a substantially constant width around the contact lens 200 and the
   inner peripheral zone is substantially centred on the contact lens 200. Certain embodiments may
25 be asymmetrical, for example to provide a combination of a double slab-off type contact lens
   with some prism ballast.
           Figure 3 shows an embodiment of a method of identification of the substantially constant
   thickness curvilinear lines A-A and B-B shown in Figure 1. The same method of identification
   may be used for the contact lens shown in Figure 2.

                                                      9
           Figure 3 shows a cross-sectional and topographical view of an embodiment of a contact
   lens 300. The contact lens 300 may be of the type shown in Figure 1, including a prism ballast
   type rotational stabilisation mechanism. As illustrated, the contact lens 300 has an edge 3, and a
   peripheral zone 8 outside a central optic zone 6.        Between the central optic zone 6 and the
 5 peripheral zone 8 is a substantially smooth first transition zone 10 to blend between the central
   optic zone 6 and peripheral zone 8. Similarly, a second transition zone 12 is provided between
   the peripheral zone 8 and the edge 3 to blend between the peripheral zone and the edge.
           In certain embodiments the lines of substantially constant thickness (e.g. lines A-A and
   B-B from Figure 1) are formed by the intersection of a plane C with the contact lens 300, the
10 plane located at different angular positions about an axis of rotation D. As can be seen from
   Figure 3, the thickness profile of the lenses of embodiments of the present invention varies from
   lenses in which the thickness profile is substantially constant horizontally (in which case the
   planes C would be parallel to each other). In one embodiment the axis of rotation D is fixed, as
   an approximation of an axis about which the eyelids rotate when opening and closing. The
15 eyeball is not a perfect sphere and the eyelids are a soft tissue with considerable compliance,
   stretching and deforming with every blink. Accordingly, in certain embodiments a more accurate
   approximation may be achieved by allowing the axis of rotation D to move around with the
   blinking motion in anterior-posterior and superior-inferior direction. For example, the curvature
   at different eyeline positions of a recipient/recipient group may be measured and the axis of
20 rotation D adjusted to provide an acceptable fit, for example using a best fit analysis technique as
   through a determination to minimise the sum of the squared distances between an eye-lid shape
   and the lines of substantially constant thickness. It will be appreciated that various alternative fit
   techniques for a recipient or recipient group may be employed to create the curvilinear lines and
   that instead a lens may be manufactured using actual measurements of the lid margins and their
25 movements, varying from this according to the accuracy with which the lenses can be
   manufactured. The axis of rotation may generally be located between about 5 to 14 mm (e.g., 5
   mm, 6 mm, 7 mm, 8 mm, 9 mm, 10 mm, 11 mm, 12 mm, 13 mm, 14 mm, although it will be
   appreciated that location of the axis of rotation is not constrained to integer intervals) posterior to
   the contact lens.
30         In certain embodiments the definition of the thickness profile may therefore be defined by
   a combination of the total required thickness variation across the peripheral zone 8 and the
   curvilinear lines A-A and B-B. In certain embodiments, the thickness may increase substantially

                                                     10
   linearly in the vertical direction. In certain embodiments the rate of thickness increase may
   change, for example to provide a relatively thicker base of the contact lens. The curvilinear lines
   may be defined by the intersection of a plane with the surface of the contact lens as described
   above with reference to Figure 3, or may be defined by other techniques, which result in an
 5 increase in the area over which pressure is achieved relative to lenses with a constant lines of
   thickness that are linear. For example, in other embodiments the location of the axis of rotation
   of the planes C may not be fixed. In certain embodiments the location of the axis of rotation may
   differ between the lines of constant thickness above the horizontal central meridian and the lines
   of constant thickness below the horizontal central meridian. In this embodiment, the location of
10 the axis of rotation may be selected with regard to differences in profile between the upper and
   lower eyelids, either of a specific recipient or as an average of a population, sub-population or
   other group. In certain embodiments, the curvilinear lines may be defined having regard to
   measurements of the actual eye-lid boundaries, which may be captured, for example, by taking a
   video of the eye lids closing, optionally when wearing a reference contact lens to make the
15 location of the eye surface similar to that when a contact lens designed in accordance with the
   present invention is located on the eye. The video may then be analysed to identify the shape of
   the eye-lid boundary at a plurality of different positions during blinking and defining the lines of
   constant thickness as matching that boundary. The reference contact lens may also include a
   ballast of the type intended to be included in the lens with curvilinear lines of constant thickness,
20 so as to provide an approximate reference for the location on the cornea where the lens will
   likely sit when applied.
           In certain embodiments once the definition of the thickness profile is determined and the
   shape requirements arising out of the refractive properties for the optic zone 6 are determined or
   received, then the lens may be manufactured using conventional techniques. These include
25 machine lathing and double or single sided moulding. The curvilinear lines of constant thickness
   described above may include some variation, for example due to manufacturing tolerances or
   other factors, but generally the lines more closely match the contact lines of the margins of one
   or both of the eyelids of the recipient with the contact lens in comparison to horizontal linear
   lines across the same part of the lens.
30

                                                      11
           Figure 4 illustrates an embodiment of the method described herein with reference to
   Figure 3. The lens 300 comprises areas with differing and varying thickness, including thinner
   areas 301, 303, central intermediate thickness areas 305, 307 and thicker areas 309, 311. Similar
   to the embodiment shown in Figure 3, the lens 300 in Figure 4 has an edge 3, and a transition
 5 zone 312 between the peripheral zone and the edge 3.
           The thickness profile is illustrated by the contour lines 321, 323, 325, 327, 329. As noted
   above, there is a general change from thinnest to thickest vertically across the lens (referring to
   the target orientation). In certain embodiments there is also a general reduction in thickness of
   the lens in the posterior part of the lens, approaching the edge 3, as shown by the knee in the
10 contour lines 321, 323, 325, 327. In some embodiments, the lens may have substantially the
   same thickness at the boundary to the transition zone 312, which may for example enhance
   comfort to the wearer. As shown in the specific embodiment of Figure 4, this thickness may be
   substantially equal to a thickness provided in the thinnest region of the lens.
           The thickness of the lens 300 in each of the areas 301, 303, 305, 307, 309, 311 is not
15 constant throughout each area, but include gradual and smooth transitions with adjacent areas.
   Thus each of the individual areas 301, 303, 305, 307, 309, 311 do not indicate a specific
   thickness, but instead a range of thicknesses. The cross-sectional thickness of the lens 300 is
   further illustrated by the cross-section 331, which is thickest about the thickest area 311, and
   thinnest about the thinnest area 301.
20         In certain embodiments, the contour lines, which at least in part include the curvilinear
   lines of substantially constant thickness, may deviate from the planes C to some extent, while
   retaining their overall characterisation of curvilinear lines. This is illustrated for example, by
   contour lines 321 and 329, in Figure 4. As illustrated, there may be variances between the
   general angle of the contour lines and that of plane C.
25         Further embodiments are illustrated in Figures 5A and 5B. These embodiments include
   some of the features in the embodiment shown in Figure 2 and like features include the same
   reference numerals.
           Referring to Figure 5A, a difference is the lines of constant thickness around the central
   region. As shown in Figure 5A, in addition to the substantially linear line of substantially
30 constant thickness at the central meridian M-M, the thickness of the lens in the proximal regions

                                                     12
   above and below the central meridian M-M are also substantially linear. This is illustrated for
   example by linear line of substantially constant thickness C-C above the central meridian M-M,
   and linear line of substantially constant thickness D-D below the central meridian.
           At locations beyond the proximal regions above and below the central meridian M-M, the
 5 lines of substantially constant thickness are curvilinear, such as lines A-A and B-B. These are
   similar to those described with reference to Figure 2. The proximal regions may cover between
   about 50% to 100% of the central optic zone 6, for example 50%, 60%, 70%, 80% or 90% of the
   central optic zone 6.
           Referring to Figure 5B, some of the lines of substantially constant thickness include a
10 piecemeal form in the proximal regions described above, covering between about 50% to 100%
   of the central optic zone 6. Referring, for example, to line E-E in the proximal region above the
   central meridian M-M, the line has a substantially linear section 521 at locations proximal to the
   central optic zone 6, followed by a deviation section 523 at locations proximal to the outer
   peripheral zone 4. The deviation section may, for example be characterised as curvilinear shape
15 or substantially linear. Similarly, line F-F, located at a proximal region below the central
   meridian M-M, has a substantially linear section 525 followed by a deviation section 527.
   Overall, the lines E-E and F-F may still more closely follow the shape of an eye-lid, when at rest
   and/or during blinking in comparison to linear lines of constant thickness. In still further
   embodiments, the upper and lower regions of the lens, outside of the optic zone 6 may also be
20 characterised by lines of substantially constant thickness in piecemeal form.
           At locations beyond the proximal regions above and below the central meridian M-M, the
   lines of substantially constant thickness are curvilinear, such as lines A-A and B-B. The line of
   substantially constant thickness at the central meridian M-M is substantially linear. These lines
   A-A, B-B, and M-M are similar to those described above with reference to Figure 2.
25         It will be understood that further alternative embodiments to those described in the
   foregoing description may be formed. For example, the location of the boundaries between the
   zones may be changed, the shapes of the zones may be varied from generally circular/annular
   and the thickness profile with curvilinear lines of constant thickness may extend through the
   outer peripheral zone 4 as well as the inner peripheral zone 5 (in which case the lens may include
30 a narrow transition zone, for example between about 0.2 to 0.5 mm to the edge 3). In some

                                                     13
   embodiments, in particular hard contact lenses, the outer peripheral zone 4 may be omitted. If the
   outer peripheral zone 4 is omitted, the lens may include a narrow transition zone 12 to the edge 3
   at the outer extremity of the inner peripheral zone 5. In certain embodiments, the curvilinear
   thickness profile may be provided in one region of the lens and not another. For example, the
 5 curvilinear lines of constant thickness may be provided on the lens across the area that the upper
   eye-lid travels. For the area across which the lower eye-lid travels a different approach may be
   used, for example the substantially linear lines of constant thickness. Similarly, a portion of the
   upper and lower hemispheres may be provided with the curvilinear lines of constant thickness
   described herein and the remainder include a different thickness profile. For example about 20%,
10 about 25%, about 30%, about 35% or about 40% of the upper and/or lower hemispheres may
   include the curvilinear lines of constant thickness. The portion(s) with curvilinear lines of
   constant thickness may be provided toward the upper and lower edges of the lens (when the lens
   is in the desired orientation).
            In addition, for some recipients/recipient groups, the effective pivot axis may not fall at
15 the vertical centre of the lens, but below or above the drawn horizontal axis. In this case the axis
   of rotation D shown in Figure 3 may be correspondingly shifted, with a resultant shift upwards or
   downwards of the central meridian M-M. Still further, for particular recipients/recipient groups
   the effective pivot axis may not be not perpendicular to the central axis of the lens, i.e. the pivot
   point on the left side of the lens has a different location from the one on the right side. In these
20 variations the lens would become asymmetric and left and right handed versions may have to be
   manufactured and stocked. To aid in identification the left and right lenses may be marked, for
   example through different colour tinting or placing distinguishing indicia near the edge of one or
   both of the lenses.
            It will also be understood that the embodiments disclosed and defined in this specification
25 extends to all alternative combinations of two or more of the individual features mentioned or
   evident from the text or drawings. All of these different combinations constitute various
   alternative aspects of the invention.

                                                           14
   CLAIMS:
   1.     A contact lens comprising:
           an anterior surface;
           a posterior surface;
 5         an edge joining the anterior and posterior surfaces;
          the anterior and posterior surfaces forming a central optic zone and a peripheral zone outside
   the central optic zone;
          the peripheral zone having a thickness profile with a varying thickness for providing rotational
   force to tend to rotationally orient the contact lens in a target orientation, the thickness profile
10 including substantially curvilinear lines of substantially constant thickness that, when the lens is in
   the target orientation, extend generally horizontally across the lens.
   2.      The contact lens of claim 1, further comprising an outer peripheral zone extending between the
   peripheral zone and the edge, the outer peripheral zone having a thickness profile that smoothly
   transitions between the outer extremity of the peripheral zone and the edge.
15 3.      The contact lens of claim 1 or claim 2 comprising a transition zone of between 0.2 to 0.5 mm
   between the central optic zone and the peripheral zone, the transition zone having a thickness profile
   that smoothly transitions between the outer extremity of the central optic zone the peripheral zone.
   4.      The contact lens of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said lines of constant thickness are
   located substantially along the intersection of a plane at different angles of rotation and the anterior
20 and/or posterior surface of the contact lens, the plane having a substantially fixed axis of rotation
   posterior to the lens.
   5.      The contact lens of any one of claims I to 4, wherein on at least one of the anterior and
   posterior surfaces the central optic zone is circular and the peripheral zone is annular.
   6.      The contact lens of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the central optic zone comprises optics
25 for correction of astigmatism.
   7.      The contact lens of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the thickness profile provides a prism
   ballast type lens.
   8.      The contact lens of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the thickness profile provides a double
   slab-off type lens.
30 9.      The contact lens of any one of claims 1 to 8 formed substantially from a soft transparent
   material.

                                                           15
   10.    A method of producing parameters for the manufacture of a contact lens comprising an
   anterior surface, a posterior surface and an edge, the method comprising defining a thickness profile
   that varies between the anterior surface and the posterior surface, the thickness profile:
           adapted to provide a rotational force on the contact lens that tends to orient the contact lens in
 5 a target rotational orientation when applied to a recipient eye, and
           including non-linear lines of constant thickness that, when the lens is in the target orientation,
   extend generally horizontally across the lens and more closely match the contact lines of the margins
   of at least one of the eyelids of the recipient with the contact lens in comparison to linear lines across
   the substantially same horizontal meridian of the lens.
10 11.     The method of claim 10, wherein the recipient eye is a nominal eye selected based on data
   from a population, sub-population or group of eyes.
   12.     The method of claim 10 or claim 11, wherein the non-linear lines of constant thickness are
   provided over at least the upper hemisphere of the lens.
   13.     The method of any one of claims 10 to 12, further comprising:
15         defining at least a central optic zone and a peripheral zone outside the central optic zone; and
          providing said thickness profile in the peripheral zone and not the central optic zone.
   14.     The method of claim 13, further comprising:
           defining an outer peripheral zone about the peripheral zone, the outer peripheral zone
   extending to the edge; and
20         defining a thickness profile in the outer peripheral zone that provides a smooth transition in
   thickness between the outer extremity of the peripheral zone and the edge.
   15.    A method of manufacturing a contact lens, the method including forming a contact lens body
   with an anterior surface, a posterior surface and an edge joining the anterior and posterior surfaces,
   wherein the contact lens includes at least a central optic zone and a peripheral zone outside the
25 central optic zone, and within the peripheral zone the lens has a thickness profile with parameters
   selected according to claim 13.
   16.     The method of claim 15, wherein the contact lens includes an outer peripheral zone about the
   peripheral zone, the outer peripheral zone extending to the edge, wherein the outer peripheral zone is
   formed to have a thickness profile that provides a smooth transition in thickness between the outer
30 extremity of the peripheral zone and the edge.

                                                          16
   17.     The method of either claim 15 or claim 16, further comprising forming a transition zone
   between the central optic zone and the peripheral zone, the transition zone providing a smooth
   transition of thickness between the central optic zone and the peripheral zone.
   18.    A contact lens manufactured according to any one of claims 15 to 17.
 5 19.    A contact lens comprising:
           an anterior surface;
           a posterior surface;
           an edge joining the anterior and posterior surfaces;
          the anterior and posterior surfaces forming a central optic zone and a peripheral zone outside
10 the central optic zone;
           wherein within at least the peripheral zone the contact lens has a thickness profile to provide a
   rotational force on the contact lens that tends to orient the contact lens in a target rotational
   orientation when applied to a recipient eye, the thickness profile comprising lines of constant
   thickness that, when the lens is in the target orientation, extend generally horizontally across the lens
15 and more closely match the contact lines of the margins of a human eyelid with the contact lens in
   comparison to linear lines extending across substantially same horizontal meridian of the lens.
   20.     The contact lens of claim 19, wherein the thickness profile comprising lines of constant
   thickness that, when the lens is in the target orientation, extend generally horizontally across the lens
   and more closely match the contact lines of the margins of a human eyelid with the contact lens in
20 comparison to linear lines extending across substantially same horizontal meridian of the lens are
   present at least in the region above the central optic zone.
   21.     The contact lens of claim 19, wherein the thickness profile comprising lines of constant
   thickness that, when the lens is in the target orientation, extend generally horizontally across the lens
   and more closely match the contact lines of the margins of a human eyelid with the contact lens in
25 comparison to linear lines extending across substantially same horizontal meridian of the lens are
   present at least in the regions above and below the central optic zone.
   22.     The contact lens of claim 19, wherein the thickness profile comprising lines of constant
   thickness that, when the lens is in the target orientation, extend generally horizontally across the lens
   and more closely match the contact lines of the margins of a human eyelid with the contact lens in
30 comparison to linear lines extending across substantially same horizontal meridian of the lens are
   present in the regions above, below and to the sides of the central optic zone.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
