                                           ABSTRACT
   In accordance with embodiments disclosed herein, there are provided methods, systems,
   mechanisms, techniques, and apparatuses for traffic aggregation on multiple WAN
 5 backhauls and multiple distinct LAN networks; for traffic load balancing on multiple
   WAN backhauls and multiple distinct LAN networks; and for performing self-healing
   operations utilizing multiple WAN backhauls serving multiple distinct LAN networks.
   For example, in one embodiment, a first Local Area Network (LAN) access device is to
   establish a first LAN; a second LAN access device is to establish a second LAN; a first
10 Wide Area Network (WAN) backhaul connection is to provide the first LAN access
   device with WAN connectivity; a second WAN backhaul connection to provide the
   second LAN access device with WAN connectivity; a management device is
   communicatively interfaced with each of the first LAN access device, the second LAN
   access device, the first WAN backhaul connection, and the second WAN backhaul
15 connection; and the management device routes a first portion of traffic originating from
   the first LAN over the first WAN backhaul connection and routes a second portion of
   the traffic originating from the first LAN over the second WAN backhaul connection.

              CDc
                    -n co
                       cu
                       cua
<0o
    NIz           z
        15/27

         SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR TRAFFIC LOAD BALANCING ON
      MULTIPLE WAN BACKHAULS AND MULTIPLE DISTINCT LAN
                                     NETWORKS
COPYRIGHT NOTICE
         [0001] A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material
which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to
the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent
disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records,
but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.
TECHNICAL FIELD
         [0002] The subject matter described herein relates generally to the field of
computing, and more particularly, to systems and methods for traffic aggregation on
multiple WAN backhauls and multiple distinct LAN networks; to systems and
methods for traffic load balancing on multiple WAN backhauls and multiple distinct
LAN networks; and to systems and methods for performing self-healing operations
utilizing multiple WAN backhauls serving multiple distinct LAN networks.
BACKGROUND
         [0003] The subject matter discussed in the background section should not
be assumed to be prior art merely as a result of its mention in the background
section. Similarly, a problem mentioned in the background section or associated
with the subject matter of the background section should not be assumed to have
been previously recognized in the prior art. The subject matter in the background
section merely represents different approaches, which in and of themselves may also
correspond to embodiments of the claimed subject matter.
         [0004] The "Internet" is a Wide Area Network that joins together many
other networks, providing a communications path between devices operating within
distinct and often geographically dispersed networks. A Local Area Network (LAN)
                                            1

enables multiple distinct devices within an end-user's premises to communicate
amongst themselves locally. Home LAN technologies include wired Ethernet, WiFi,
power line, coax, phoneline and other transmission systems. An end-user's LAN is
often connected to the Internet via a WAN backhaul connection to an Internet
Service Provider (ISP) that provides the end-user consumer with Internet
connectivity and Internet Bandwidth. WAN backhaul technologies include DSL,
cable modems, fiber, and wireless. Devices within the end-user's LAN may
communicate with devices external to the LAN over the WAN backhaul connection
provided by the end-user's ISP.
         [0005] Traditionally, the WAN is controlled, managed and maintained by
service providers, such as Internet Service Providers, Telecommunications
Operators, etc. Conversely, a LAN is typically managed and maintained at a
customer's premises by end users/customers, which may be residential users or
commercial/business customers. Moreover, operators and service providers
typically refrain from addressing any LAN related problems, notwithstanding the
fact that, at times, some problems and issues exhibited via the LAN may be related
to WAN configurations and settings. Opportunities for enhanced management of the
LAN to WAN interfaces may benefit LANs, LAN devices, and end-to-end service
delivery. However, such enhanced management opportunities have not yet been
made available to the relevant consuming public and have not yet been explored in
earnest by relevant Service Providers.
         [0006] The present state of the art may therefore benefit from systems and
methods for traffic aggregation on multiple WAN backhauls and multiple distinct
LAN networks; systems and methods for traffic load balancing on multiple WAN
backhauls and multiple distinct LAN networks; and systems and methods for
performing self-healing operations utilizing multiple WAN backhauls serving
multiple distinct LAN networks, each of which are described herein.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [0007] Embodiments are illustrated by way of example, and not by way of
limitation, and will be more fully understood with reference to the following
detailed description when considered in connection with the figures in which:
                                            2

         [0008] Figure 1 illustrates an exemplary architecture in which
embodiments may operate;
         [0009] Figures 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D, 2E, 2F, 2G, and 2H illustrate alternative
exemplary architectures in which embodiments may operate;
         [0010] Figures 3A, 3B, 3C, 3D, and 3E illustrate alternative exemplary
architectures in which embodiments may operate;
         [0011] Figures 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D, 4E, 4F, and 4G illustrate alternative
exemplary architectures in which embodiments may operate;
         [0012] Figures 5A and 5B show diagrammatic representations of systems
in accordance with which embodiments may operate, be installed, integrated, or
configured;
         [0013] Figures 6A, 6B, and 6C are flow diagrams illustrating methods for
traffic aggregation; methods for traffic load balancing; and methods for performing
self-healing in accordance with described embodiments; and
         [0014] Figure 7 illustrates a diagrammatic representation of a machine in
the exemplary form of a computer system, in accordance with one embodiment.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         [0015] Described herein are systems and methods for traffic aggregation on
multiple WAN backhauls and multiple distinct LAN networks; systems and
methods for traffic load balancing on multiple WAN backhauls and multiple distinct
LAN networks; and systems and methods for performing self-healing operations
utilizing multiple WAN backhauls serving multiple distinct LAN networks.
         [0016] Demand for data traffic is bursty, with frequent large changes in
traffic. Demand for streaming services such as video can also vary substantially as
sessions come and go, such as when turning a TV on and off. Moreover, the supply
of bandwidth can vary considerably, with different LAN connections such as
wireless proving different bit rates, and different WAN connections such as
broadband access backhaul also providing different bit rates. It is often the case that
when one line is heavily loaded, an adjacent line is lightly loaded. Traffic
aggregation takes advantage of this, statistically smoothing demand and supply by
pooling multiple users together into a single logically created connection.
                                            3

        [0017] LAN/WAN bonding solutions heretofore have been limited to
specific pre-determined implementations. The traffic aggregation mechanisms
disclosed herein are more dynamic in nature and allow for combining traffic across
different WAN backhauls and LAN networks in an adaptive fashion. Traffic
aggregation might include, among other things, techniques such as packet
reordering, classification by packet type (control or data), etc. Traffic can also be
aggregated across devices in different subnets, networks being serviced by different
service providers, etc. Certain traffic aggregation mechanisms do not differentiate
incoming traffic on the basis of traffic flows, so that resources are allocated to the
whole set of flows. There are also traffic aggregation mechanisms that do not treat
all incoming traffic as the same and each flow can be allocated its own dedicated
resources. Any traffic handling scheme presents different requirements in terms of
link capacity and also has its own sensitivity to changes in the traffic load offered to
the network. This interdependency between the performance of traffic aggregation
schemes and link status (capacity, offered load, flow characteristics, etc.) is present
regardless of whether aggregation is performed by aggregating traffic over a single
connection or by switching or routing physically or logically distinct traffic sources
and sinks over different connections, and in both cases requires to adapt
configuration to the specific scenario at hand. Traffic aggregation is thus more
adaptive and may be adapted to suit the situation at hand where as bonding tends to
be more static.
        [0018] For example, in one embodiment, a first Local Area Network (LAN)
access device is to establish a first LAN; a second LAN access device is to establish
a second LAN; a first Wide Area Network (WAN) backhaul connection is to
provide the first LAN access device with WAN connectivity; a second WAN
backhaul connection is to provide the second LAN access device with WAN
connectivity; and a traffic aggregation unit is to form a logically bonded WAN
interface over the first WAN backhaul and the second WAN backhaul. In some
embodiments an optional traffic de-aggregation unit may be used.
        [0019] In another embodiment, a first Local Area Network (LAN) access
device is to establish a first LAN; a second LAN access device is to establish a
second LAN; a first Wide Area Network (WAN) backhaul connection is to provide
                                            4

the first LAN access device with WAN connectivity; a second WAN backhaul
connection to provide the second LAN access device with WAN connectivity; a
management device is communicatively interfaced with each of the first LAN
access device, the second LAN access device, the first WAN backhaul connection,
and the second WAN backhaul connection; and the management device routes a
first portion of traffic originating from the first LAN over the first WAN backhaul
connection and routes a second portion of the traffic originating from the first LAN
over the second WAN backhaul connection.
         [0020] In another embodiment, a first Local Area Network (LAN) access
device is to establish a first LAN; a second LAN access device is to establish a
second LAN; a first Wide Area Network (WAN) backhaul connection is to provide
the first LAN access device with WAN connectivity; a second WAN backhaul
connection is to provide the second LAN access device with WAN connectivity; a
management device is communicatively interfaced with each of the first LAN
access device, the second LAN access device, the first WAN backhaul connection,
and the second WAN backhaul connection; and the management device, responsive
to a failure event, re-routes traffic associated with the first LAN onto the second
WAN backhaul connection or re-routes traffic associated with the second LAN onto
the first WAN backhaul connection.
         [0021] In accordance with embodiments described herein, end-user
consumers, including residential consumers and business consumers, may connect
to the Internet by way of a Wide Area Network (WAN) backhaul connection to a
Service Provider (SP), such as an Internet Service Provider (ISP), or to a Service
Provider that provides one or more of data connectivity, voice connectivity, video
connectivity, and mobile device connectivity to a plurality of subscribers. Such
Service Providers may include a Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) internet service
provider which provides its subscribing end-users with Internet bandwidth at least
partially over copper twisted pair telephone lines, such as that conventionally
utilized to carry analog telephone service (e.g., Plain Old Telephone Service
(POTS); a coaxial cable internet service provider which provides end-users with
Internet bandwidth at least partially over coaxial cable, such as that conventionally
utilized to carry "cable" television signals; or a fiber optics internet service provider
                                              5

which provides end-users with Internet bandwidth at over fiber optic cable that
terminates at a customer's premises. Other variants exist as well, such as ISPs which
provide Internet bandwidth as an analog signal over an analog telephone based
connection, ISPs that provide Internet bandwidth over a one-way or two-way
satellite connection, and ISPs that provide Internet bandwidth at least partially over
power lines, such as power lines conventionally utilized to transmit utility power
(e.g., electricity) to an end-user's premises, or ISPs that provide Internet bandwidth
at least partially over wireless channels, such as wireless (e.g., WiFi) connectivity at
hotspots, or mobile data connectivity via technologies and standards such as
WiMax, 3G/4G, LTE, etc.
         [0022] At an end-user's premises, Internet bandwidth and other compatible
services provided via a WAN backhaul connection to an ISP is commonly
distributed amongst multiple devices within the end-user's premises via a Local
Area Network (LAN), which may be established via a LAN device. Distribution of
the Internet Bandwidth and other services provided via the WAN backhaul may
further extend to an area around an end-user's premises, such as to an area outside a
home, to a space or area outside of or around a business in which the Internet
Bandwidth is accessible via the end-user's LAN wirelessly. At the end-user's
premises, network traffic may be distributed within the LAN via wired connections
or wireless connections, for example, over coaxial wiring, electrical power wiring,
twisted-pair telephone wiring, variants of Ethernet/Category-5 type wiring, and
various types of wireless radio signals using licensed and unlicensed spectrum and
various protocols. In accordance with one embodiment, access to Internet bandwidth
and other services provided by the WAN backhaul may be secured.
         [0023] Some network traffic associated with the end-user's premises
remains local to the LAN, while other traffic destined for locations external to the
LAN traverse the LAN onto the WAN interface and onto the Internet via the WAN
backhaul.
         [0024] Besides network traffic traversing the WAN and LAN networks and
interfaces, various types of information is available, retrievable, or observable from
each of the distinct WAN and LAN networks. The management device described
herein may collect information collected from the WAN and LAN networks via
                                            6

respective WAN and LAN interfaces to such networks, and perform or enable
various enhancements, such as performing self-healing operations utilizing multiple
WAN backhauls serving multiple distinct LAN networks; and load balancing traffic
utilizing multiple WAN backhauls serving multiple distinct LAN networks. The
management device may further coordinate or instruct the formation of a logical
WAN backhaul connection over multiple underlying physical or wireless WAN
backhauls. Some embodiments make use of a traffic aggregation unit which may
form a logically bonded WAN interface from two or more underlying WAN
interfaces. In some embodiments, a traffic de-aggregation unit may optionally be
employed. Traffic aggregation may use inverse multiplexing, Ethernet switching, IP
routing, Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM), Time-Division Multiplexing (TDM),
Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP), PPP Multi-Link Protocol (MLPPP), or other
technologies.
         [0025] An alternative to classic traffic aggregation is to selectively
aggregate traffic by switching or routing physically or logically distinct traffic
sources and sinks over different connections. For example, traffic from a first subnet
on a LAN can travel over a first WAN connection, while traffic from a second
subnet on a LAN can travel over a second WAN connection. This selective
aggregation mechanism can switch or route traffic according to physical port,
priority level, Ethernet VLAN or MAC identities, IP number, subnet, TCP/UDP
port number, protocol, type of service (TOS), DiffServ Code Point (DSCP), IP
precedence, MPLS tag, application layer, etc.
         [0026] Aggregation via selectively switching or routing traffic may be
performed with no physical aggregation element, for example, an aggregation
element may be either physical entity or a logically defined entity in accordance
with the various described embodiments.
         [0027] Aggregation and selection of connections may be varied adaptively,
as traffic demands and connection bandwidths change over time. For example, a
high traffic demand from a first LAN may be routed over both a first and a second
WAN, but when the traffic demand from the first LAN decreases the traffic ceases
to be routed over the second WAN. If traffic demand increases on the second LAN
such traffic may then be routed over the first WAN. More involved real-time load
                                            7

balancing may be incorporated to match overall traffic demands with bandwidth
supply in an adaptive fashion.
         [0028] Disclosed embodiments may also be extended to cases with more
than two LANs or more than two WAN connections. In such cases, traffic
aggregation schemes have multiple traffic inputs and multiple choices on how to
aggregate traffic, for example, over a single connection or multiple connections
each with its own link quality, capacity. Since there is interdependency between the
performances of traffic aggregation schemes and input flow characteristics and link
quality, traffic can be aggregated taking a weighted approach to better serve the
scenario at hand. Traffic can be weighted to account for the fact that not all access
point conditions are equal, therefore when connections are made to more than two
access points, the connections to different access points may be weighted
accordingly, for example, to compensate for the different speeds, throughput,
latency, or other characteristics associated with the distinct access points. In one
embodiment, weighting is dependent upon the supply of bandwidth on the different
WAN connections, and further dependent upon the traffic demand from the different
LANs. The weighting may further vary with the type or priority of traffic, different
service levels, different services, etc. The weighting may also be time varying as a
consequence of the fact that channel quality also changes over time. This applies
also the LAN case where it is well known that in-home power line communications
(PLC) faces time varying impairments.
         [0029] Disclosed embodiments may also be extended to cases where the
same LAN extends over multiple physically separated channels. For example, such
as the case of having a LAN where G.hn (ITU-T standardized unified high-speed
wire-line based home networking) nodes operate over phoneline, power lines, and
coax; or in the case of a hybrid wireline/wireless LAN. In cases, traffic aggregation
over the WAN may apply different weights on input flows originating on coax or
phoneline or power line or wireless. Similarly, when one source requires so many
channel resources that no single physical channel is able to satisfy them, then traffic
handling schemes may split the input traffic and simultaneously transmit the input
traffic over multiple channels. This can be accomplished using possibly unequal
weights depending on link conditions and then re-aggregate the input traffic over the
                                             8

WAN or eventually at the sink within the LAN. The way in which incoming traffic
is simultaneously transmitted over multiple channels can change over time with link
condition and traffic requirements.
         [0030] In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth
such as examples of specific systems, languages, components, etc., in order to
provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be apparent,
however, to one skilled in the art that these specific details need not be employed to
practice the disclosed embodiments. In other instances, well known materials or
methods have not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring
the disclosed embodiments.
         [0031] In addition to various hardware components depicted in the figures
and described herein, embodiments further include various operations which are
described below. The operations described in accordance with such embodiments
may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine
executable instructions, which may be used to cause a general-purpose or special
purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the operations.
Alternatively, the operations may be performed by a combination of hardware and
software, including software instructions that perform the operations described
herein via memory and one or more processors of a computing platform.
         [0032] Embodiments also relate to a system or apparatus for performing the
operations herein. The disclosed system or apparatus may be specially constructed
for the required purposes, or it may comprise a general purpose computer
selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer.
Such a computer program may be stored in a non-transitory computer readable
storage medium, such as, but not limited to, any type of disk including floppy disks,
optical disks, flash, NAND, solid state drives (SSDs), CD-ROMs, and magnetic
optical disks, read-only memories (ROMs), random access memories (RAMs),
EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, or any type of media suitable for
storing non-transitory electronic instructions, each coupled to a computer system
bus. In one embodiment, a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having
instructions stored thereon, causes one or more processors within a Management
Device, a traffic aggregation unit, and/or a traffic de-aggregator to perform the
                                            9

methods and operations which are described herein. In another embodiment, the
instructions to perform such methods and operations are stored upon a non
transitory computer readable medium for later execution.
        [0033] The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently
related to any particular computer or other apparatus nor are embodiments described
with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a
variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the
embodiments as described herein.
        [0034] Figure 1 illustrates an exemplary architecture 100 in which
embodiments may operate. Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL) systems
(one form of Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) systems), which may or may not
include splitters, operate in compliance with the various applicable standards such
as ADSL1 (G.992.1), ADSL-Lite (G.992.2), ADSL2 (G.992.3), ADSL2-Lite
G.992.4, ADSL2+ (G.992.5) and the G.993.x emerging Very-high-speed Digital
Subscriber Line or Very-high-bitrate Digital Subscriber Line (VDSL) standards, as
well as the G.991.1 and G.991.2 Single-Pair High-speed Digital Subscriber Line
(SHDSL) standards, all with and without bonding, and/or the G.997.1 standard (also
known as G.ploam).
        [0035] In performing the disclosed functions, systems may utilize a variety
of operational data (which includes performance data) that is available at an Access
Node (AN).
        [0036] In Figure 1, users terminal equipment 102 (e.g., a Customer
Premises Equipment (CPE) device or a remote terminal device, network node, LAN
device, etc.) is coupled to a home network 104, which in turn is coupled to a
Network Termination (NT) Unit 108. DSL Transceiver Units (TU) are further
depicted (e.g., a device that provides modulation on a DSL loop or line). In one
embodiment, NT unit 108 includes a TU-R (TU Remote), 122 (for example, a
transceiver defined by one of the ADSL or VDSL standards) or any other suitable
network termination modem, transceiver or other communication unit. NT unit 108
also includes a Management Entity (ME) 124. Management Entity 124 can be any
suitable hardware device, such as a microprocessor, microcontroller, or circuit state
machine in firmware or hardware, capable of performing as required by any
                                          10

applicable standards and/or other criteria. Management Entity 124 collects and
stores, among other things, operational data in its Management Information Base
(MIB), which is a database of information maintained by each ME capable of being
accessed via network management protocols such as Simple Network Management
Protocol (SNMP), an administration protocol used to gather information from a
network device to provide to an administrator console/program or via Transaction
Language 1 (TL1) commands, TL1 being a long-established command language
used to program responses and commands between telecommunication network
elements. In one embodiment, Network Termination Unit 108 is communicably
interfaced with a management device 170 as described herein. In another
embodiment, TU-R 122 is communicably interfaced with management device 170.
         [0037] Each TU-R 122 in a system may be coupled with an TU-C (TU
Central) in a Central Office (CO) or other central location. TU-C 142 is located at
an Access Node (AN) 114 in Central Office 146. A Management Entity 144
likewise maintains an MIB of operational data pertaining to TU-C 142. The Access
Node 114 may be coupled to a broadband network 106 or other network, as will be
appreciated by those skilled in the art. TU-R 122 and TU-C 142 are coupled
together by a loop 112, which in the case of ADSL may be a twisted pair line, such
as a telephone line, which may carry other communication services besides DSL
based communications. Either management entity 124 or management entity 144
may implement and incorporate a management device 170 as described herein.
Management entity 124 or management entity 144 may further store collected WAN
information and collected LAN information within an associated MIB.
         [0038] Several of the interfaces shown in Figure 1 are used for determining
and collecting operational data. The  Q interface  126 provides the interface between
the Network Management System (NMS) 116 of the operator and ME 144 in
Access Node 114. Parameters specified in the G.997.1 standard apply at the     Q
interface 126. The near-end parameters supported in Management Entity 144 may
be derived from TU-C 142, while far-end parameters from TU-R 122 may be
derived by either of two interfaces over the UA interface. Indicator bits and EOC
messages may be sent using embedded channel 132 and provided at the Physical
Medium Dependent (PMD) layer, and may be used to generate the required TU-R
                                           11

122 parameters in ME 144. Alternately, the operations, Administration and
Maintenance (OAM) channel and a suitable protocol may be used to retrieve the
parameters from TU-R 122 when requested by Management Entity 144. Similarly,
the far-end parameters from TU-C 142 may be derived by either of two interfaces
over the U-interface. Indicator bits and EOC message provided at the PMD layer
may be used to generate the required TU-C 142 parameters in Management Entity
124 of NT unit 108. Alternately, the OAM channel and a suitable protocol may be
used to retrieve the parameters from TU-C 142 when requested by Management
Entity 124.
        [0039] At the U interface (also referred to as loop 112), there are two
management interfaces, one at TU-C 142 (the U-C interface 157) and one at TU-R
122 (the U-R interface 158). Interface 157 provides TU-C near-end parameters for
TU-R 122 to retrieve over the U interface/loop 112. Similarly, U-R interface 158
provides TU-R near-end parameters for TU-C 142 to retrieve over the U
interface/loop 112. The parameters that apply may be dependent upon the
transceiver standard being used (for example, G.992.1 or G.992.2). The G.997.1
standard specifies an optional Operation, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM)
communication channel across the U interface. If this channel is implemented, TU
C and TU-R pairs may use it for transporting physical layer OAM messages. Thus,
the TU transceivers 122 and 142 of such a system share various operational data
maintained in their respective MIBs.
        [0040] Depicted within Figure 1 is management device 170 operating at
various optional locations in accordance with several alternative embodiments. For
example, management device 170 is located within home network 104, such as
within a LAN. In an alternative embodiment, management device 170 is located at
central office 146 and interfaced to home network 104 (e.g., a LAN) and broadband
network 106 (e.g., a WAN) via NMS 116. In yet another embodiment, management
device 170 operates on the broadband network 106 (e.g., on the WAN or Internet).
        [0041] Also depicted within Figure 1 is a traffic aggregation unit 180
operating at various optional locations in accordance with several embodiments. For
example, traffic aggregation unit 180 may reside within TE 102, may reside within a
LAN device 103 which is connected with TE 102, traffic aggregation unit 180 may
                                           12

recite on the loop 112 at the CPE or CO side. As depicted here, traffic aggregation
unit 180 is placed on the loop 112 at NT 108. These and other examples and their
benefits and function will be described in further detail below.
         [0042] As used herein, the terms "user," "subscriber," and/or "customer"
refer to a person, business and/or organization to which communication services
and/or equipment are and/or may potentially be provided by any of a variety of
service provider(s). Further, the term "customer premises" refers to the location to
which communication services are being provided by a service provider. For an
example Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) used to provide DSL
services, customer premises are located at, near and/or are associated with the
network termination (NT) side of the telephone lines. Example customer premises
include a residence or an office building.
         [0043] As used herein, the term "service provider" refers to any of a variety
of entities that provide, sell, provision, troubleshoot and/or maintain communication
services and/or communication equipment. Example service providers include a
telephone operating company, a cable operating company, a wireless operating
company, an internet service provider, or any service that may independently or in
conjunction with a broadband communications service provider offer services that
diagnose or improve broadband communications services (DSL, DSL services,
cable, etc.).
         [0044] Additionally, as used herein, the term "DSL" refers to any of a
variety and/or variant of DSL technology such as, for example, Asymmetric DSL
(ADSL), High-speed DSL (HDSL), Symmetric DSL (SDSL), and/or Very high
speed/Very high-bit-rate DSL (VDSL). Such DSL technologies are commonly
implemented in accordance with an applicable standard such as, for example, the
International Telecommunications Union (I.T.U.) standard G.992.1 (a.k.a. G.dmt)
for ADSL modems, the I.T.U. standard G.992.3 (a.k.a. G.dmt.bis, or G.adsl2) for
ADSL2 modems, I.T.U. standard G.992.5 (a.k.a. G.adsl2plus) for ADSL2+
modems, I.T.U. standard G.993.1 (a.k.a. G.vdsl) for VDSL modems, I.T.U. standard
G.993.2 for VDSL2 modems, I.T.U. standard G.994.1 (G.hs) for modems
implementing handshake, and/or the I.T.U. G.997.1 (a.k.a. G.ploam) standard for
management of DSL modems.
                                              13

        [0045] References to connecting a DSL modem and/or a DSL
communication service to a customer are made with respect to exemplary Digital
Subscriber Line (DSL) equipment, DSL services, DSL systems and/or the use of
ordinary twisted-pair copper telephone lines for distribution of DSL services, it
should be understood that the disclosed methods and apparatus to characterize
and/or test a transmission medium for communication systems disclosed herein may
be applied to many other types and/or variety of communication equipment,
services, technologies and/or systems. For example, other types of systems include
wireless distribution systems, wired or cable distribution systems, coaxial cable
distribution systems, Ultra High Frequency (UHF) / Very High Frequency (VHF)
radio frequency systems, satellite or other extra-terrestrial systems, cellular
distribution systems, broadband power-line systems and/or fiber optic networks.
Additionally, combinations of these devices, systems and/or networks may also be
used. For example, a combination of twisted-pair and coaxial cable interfaced via a
balun connector, or any other physical-channel-continuing combination such as an
analog fiber to copper connection with linear optical-to-electrical connection at an
Optical Network Unit (ONU) may be used.
        [0046] The phrases "coupled to," "coupled with," connected to,"
"connected with" and the like are used herein to describe a connection between two
elements and/or components and are intended to mean coupled/connected either
directly together, or indirectly, for example via one or more intervening elements or
via a wired/wireless connection. References to a "communication system" are
intended, where applicable, to include reference to any other type of data
transmission system.
        [0047] Figure 2A illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 200 in
which embodiments may operate. Figure 2A depicts a first Wide Area Network
(WAN) at element 205A, a second WAN 205B, a first Local Area Network (LAN)
at element 210A, and a second LAN 210B. LAN access device 220A connects LAN
210A with WAN 205A through traffic aggregation unit 225. LAN 210B is
connected with WAN 205B through LAN access device 220B. LAN access device
230 provides a communications interface between traffic aggregation unit 225 and
LAN access device 220B.
                                            14

         [0048] In the series of exemplary embodiments set forth at Figures 2A
through 2H there are two LAN access devices shown (e.g., 220A and 220B of
Figure 2A). However, more than two LAN access devices may permissible operate
in accordance with the described embodiments and the depiction of two such LAN
access devices in the exemplary figures is not to be construed as being limited to
only two.
         [0049] In accordance with one embodiment, such an architecture 200 or
system includes a first Local Area Network (LAN) access device 220A to establish
a first LAN 210A and a second LAN access device 220B to establish a second LAN
210B which is operationally distinct from the first LAN 210A. In such an
embodiment, the architecture 200 or system further includes a first Wide Area
Network (WAN) backhaul connection 211 to provide the first LAN access device
220A with WAN connectivity. In this embodiment, the architecture 200 or system
further includes a second WAN backhaul connection 212 to provide the second
LAN access device 210A with WAN connectivity. In this embodiment, each of the
first WAN backhaul connection 211 and the second WAN backhaul connection 212
are physically distinct. The architecture 200 or system of this embodiment further
includes traffic aggregation unit 225 to form a logically bonded WAN interface 213
over the first WAN backhaul connection 211 and the second WAN backhaul
connection 212.
         [0050] In one embodiment, the logically bonded WAN interface 213
provides the first LAN access device 220A and the second LAN access device 220B
with WAN connectivity via a combination of first bandwidth accessible via the first
WAN backhaul connection 211 and second bandwidth accessible via the second
WAN backhaul connection 212.
         [0051] In one embodiment, the logically bonded WAN interface 213
provides the first LAN access device 220A with WAN connectivity and further
provides the second LAN access device 220B with WAN connectivity. In such an
embodiment, the logically bonded WAN interface 213 supplants (e.g., is used in
place of, replaces, supersedes, etc.) the first WAN backhaul connection 211 for
providing the first LAN access device 220A with its respective WAN connectivity
and further supplants the second WAN backhaul connection 212 for providing the
                                             15

second LAN access device 220B with its respective WAN connectivity. For
example, in such an embodiment, both LAN access devices 220A-B communicate
via logically bonded WAN interface 213 once established, rather than their
respective WAN interfaces 211 and 212 respectively.
        [0052] In one embodiment, the first WAN backhaul connection 211
provides the first LAN access device 220A with WAN connectivity via the first
WAN backhaul connection 211 to a Service Provider that provides one or more of
data connectivity, voice connectivity, video connectivity, and mobile device
connectivity to a plurality of subscribers. In one embodiment, the second WAN
backhaul connection 212 provides the second LAN access device 220B with WAN
connectivity via the second WAN backhaul connection 212 to the same Service
Provider via a physically distinct communications link to the same Service Provider.
For example, WAN backhaul connections 211 and 212 may represent physically
distinct communications links, yet both communicably link to the same service
provider. Such a service provider may implement or establish the Wide Area
Networks 205A-B.
        [0053] In one embodiment, the physically distinct communications link to
the same Service Provider associated with the second WAN backhaul connection is
identified by an Internet Protocol (IP) address distinct from an IP address for the
first WAN backhaul connection. In such an embodiment, the physically distinct
communications link to the same Service Provider associated with the second WAN
backhaul connection 212 is associated with a subscriber's account distinct from a
subscriber's account associated with the first WAN backhaul connection 211. For
example, the first WAN backhaul connection 211 may lead to one house or office,
and the second WAN backhaul connection 212 may lead to a separate and distinct
house or office. Nevertheless, both may trace back to the same service provider.
        [0054] In one embodiment, the first WAN backhaul connection 211
provides the first LAN access device 220A with WAN connectivity via the first
WAN backhaul connection 211 to a first Service Provider that provides one or more
of data connectivity, voice connectivity, video connectivity, and mobile device
connectivity to a plurality of subscribers and the second WAN backhaul connection
212 provides the second LAN access device 220B with WAN connectivity via the
                                            16

second WAN backhaul connection 212 to a second Service Provider separate and
distinct from the first Service Provider. For example, different from the preceding
example, each of the first and second WAN backhaul connections 211 and 212 may
lead to completely different service providers.
         [0055] In one embodiment, at least a portion of traffic originating from the
first LAN 21 OA and at least a portion of traffic originating from the second LAN
210B traverses the logically bonded WAN interface 213.
         [0056] In one embodiment: (a) a first plurality of traffic packets originating
from the first LAN 210A traverses the logically bonded WAN interface 213 via the
first WAN backhaul 211 through the traffic aggregation unit 225; (b) a second
plurality of traffic packets originating from the first LAN 210A traverses the
logically bonded WAN interface 213 via the second WAN backhaul 212 through the
traffic aggregation unit 225; (c) a third plurality of traffic packets originating from
the second LAN 210B traverses the logically bonded WAN interface 213 via the
first WAN backhaul 211 through the traffic aggregation unit 225; and (d) a fourth
plurality of traffic packets originating from the second LAN 210B traverses the
logically bonded WAN interface 213 via the second WAN backhaul 212 through the
traffic aggregation unit 225. Thus, packets originating from either LAN 210A-B
may traverse the logically bonded WAN interface 213 via either or both underlying
WAN backhaul connection 211 and/or 212. In such an embodiment, LAN devices
within either LAN 21OA-B may operate wholly agnostic or ignorant of which
underlying backhaul connection is being utilized for any given packet, as the traffic
aggregation unit 225 provides the necessary coordination for the plurality of packets
sent to, or designated for, various locations accessible within the WANs 205A-B
(e.g., such as packets which must be routed to a location over the Internet, etc.).
         [0057] In one embodiment, the first LAN 210A includes a first plurality of
interconnected LAN nodes 238. In such an embodiment, each of the first plurality of
interconnected LAN nodes 238 are identifiable within the first LAN 210A by a
private Internet Protocol (IP) address managed by the first LAN access device
220A. In such an embodiment, the second LAN 210B includes a second plurality of
interconnected LAN nodes 239, in which each of the second plurality of
interconnected LAN nodes 239 are identifiable within the second LAN 210B by a
                                            17

private IP address managed by the second LAN access device 220B. In such an
embodiment, the first LAN access device 220A is identifiable via a first unique
Public IP address assigned to the first LAN access device 220A and the second
LAN access device 220B is identifiable via a second unique Public IP address
assigned to the second LAN access device 220B.
        [0058] The LAN nodes 238 and 239 may associate with the LAN access
devices 220A and 220B, respectively according to their respective selection criteria.
For example, LAN nodes 238 and 239 might associate with the LAN access device
with the highest received power as indicated for example by RSSI (Received Signal
Strength Indication). Alternatively, nodes might associate with LAN access devices
based on the bandwidth that the LAN access devices can service the respective LAN
node with, after servicing existing nodes. The WAN backhaul capacity of a LAN
access device might also be taken into account to make this choice or selection.
Another selection criterion might be that a LAN node associates with the LAN
access device servicing fewer existing nodes. In other cases, the security
requirements to associate with a LAN access device might leave the node with only
one LAN access device to associate with.
        [0059] For example, each of the unique Public IP addresses may be
assigned by an ISP or service provider which provides internet connectivity to the
respective LAN access devices 220A-B. Thus, in accordance with one embodiment,
each of the first and second unique Public IP address are directly addressable via a
public Internet. In one embodiment, the private Internet Protocol (IP) addresses
managed by the LAN access device 220A-B are not directly addressable via the
Internet, but instead, must rely upon Network Address Translation (NAT) or some
forwarding mechanism, for example, a forwarding mechanism provided by a
modem, a router, etc. Thus, in accordance with one embodiment, none of the first or
second plurality of interconnected LAN nodes 238 and 239 are directly addressable
via the public Internet as each of the first or second plurality of interconnected LAN
nodes 238 and 239 require address translation to a corresponding private IP address
associated with the respective one of the first or second plurality of interconnected
LAN nodes 238 and 239 to receive traffic from the public Internet. For example, the
LAN access devices may be Internet facing, whereas the interconnected LAN nodes
                                             18

238 and 239 are not, and are thus protected to some extent as traffic must first
traverse at least the LAN access device before any of the plurality of interconnected
LAN nodes 238 and 239 can be accessed.
         [0060] In an alternative embodiment, the first LAN 210A includes a first
plurality of interconnected LAN nodes 238, each of which are identifiable within
the first LAN 210A by one or more Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN) tags
managed by the first LAN access device 220A and the second LAN 210B includes a
second plurality of interconnected LAN nodes 239, each of which are identifiable
within the second LAN 210B by a second one or more VLAN tags which are
managed by the second LAN access device 220B. In such an alternative
embodiment, the first LAN access device 220A provides Voice over Internet
Protocol (VoIP) services and/or Internet Protocol Television (JPTV) services to one
or more of the interconnected LAN nodes 238 within the first LAN 220A based on
Ethernet level addressing using the one or more VLAN tags and the second LAN
access device 220B provides VoIP services and/or IPTV services to one or more of
the interconnected LAN nodes 239 within the second LAN 210B based on Ethernet
level addressing using the second one or more VLAN tags. In this embodiment, any
of the first and second plurality of interconnected LAN nodes 238 and 239 may be
uniquely identifiable based at least on the one or more VLAN tags respectively
managed by the first or second LAN access device 220A-B. For example, the units
may be addressable over the Internet via remote devices using the one or more
VLAN tags.
         [0061] In accordance with one embodiment, the traffic aggregation unit 225
includes or is allocated or assigned a Public Internet Protocol (IP) address distinct
from a public IP address associated with the first LAN access device 220A and
distinct from a public IP address associated with the second LAN access device
220B. Thus, it is distinctly, uniquely, and separately identifiable and addressable,
separately from either of the LAN access devices 220A-B.
         [0062] In one embodiment, the first WAN backhaul connection 211
includes or corresponds to a first transfer rate with the first LAN 21 OA and the
second WAN backhaul connection 212 includes or corresponds to a second average
transfer rate with the second LAN 2 1OB. In such embodiments, the bonded WAN
                                            19

interface 213 includes or corresponds to an aggregate transfer rate with the first
LAN 210A and with the second LAN 210B which is greater than the first transfer
rate and is greater than the second transfer rate of the first and second WAN
backhaul connections 211 and 212 respectively. Thus, a client device within one of
the LANs 210A-B, such as one of the LAN nodes 238, may attain greater transfer
rates using the logically bonded WAN interface 213 than would be possible using
only one of the underlying first or second WAN backhaul connections 211 and 212.
For example, the first and second transfer rates may constitute one of an
instantaneous data rate, an average peak data rate, or a peak transfer rate, and further
in which the aggregate transfer rate results in data throughput capability which is
greater than either of the first or the second respective transfer rates individually.
         [0063] In accordance with one embodiment, the traffic aggregation unit 225
operates physically separate and distinct from each of the first LAN access device
220A and the second LAN access device 220B. In such an embodiment, the traffic
aggregation unit 225 is communicatively interfaced between the first LAN access
device 220A and the first WAN backhaul connection 211, in which the traffic
aggregation unit has a direct communications link to each of the first LAN access
device 220A and the first WAN backhaul connection 211. In such an embodiment,
the traffic aggregation unit 225 is further communicatively interfaced with the
second LAN access device 220B, in which the traffic aggregation unit 225 has an
indirect communications link to the second WAN backhaul connection 212 through
the second LAN access device 220B which operates in direct communication with
the second WAN backhaul connection 212. For example, the direct communications
link communicably interfacing the traffic aggregation unit 225 between the first
LAN access device 220A and the first WAN backhaul connection 211 may
constitute a communications link with no other intermediate nodes, whereas the
indirect communication link to the second WAN backhaul connection 212 includes
at least one intermediate node before the indirect connection reaches the second
WAN backhaul connection 212.
         [0064] As depicted, LAN access device 230 is an intermediate node. LAN
access device 220B may also serve as an intermediate node as the depicted route
traverses the second LAN access device 220B to reach the second WAN backhaul
                                             20

connection 212. Thus, in accordance with an alternative embodiment, the system or
architecture 200 further includes a third LAN access device 230 which is
communicatively interfaced between the traffic aggregation unit 225 and the second
LAN access device 220B. In such an embodiment, the third LAN access device 230
has a direct communications link to each of the traffic aggregation unit 225 and the
second LAN access device 220B. In this alternative embodiment, the traffic
aggregation unit 225 has an indirect communications link to the second LAN access
device 220B through the third LAN access device 230, in which the third LAN
access device 230 provides an alternate backup communications path to the
logically bonded WAN interface 213 over the first WAN backhaul connection 211
and the second WAN backhaul connection 212 responsive to a failure event at one
of the first LAN access device 220A or the second LAN access device 220B.
         [0065] Figure 2B illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 201 in
which embodiments may operate. Figure 2B additionally introduces traffic de
aggregator unit 235.
         [0066] In accordance with one embodiment, such an architecture 201 or
system further includes a traffic de-aggregator unit 235 communicatively interfaced
between the first WAN backhaul connection 211 and the second WAN backhaul
connection 212. In such an embodiment, the traffic aggregation unit 225 (forming
the logically bonded WAN interface 213) bonds Internet Protocol (IP) addresses
associated with traffic originating from both the first LAN 210A and the second
LAN 21 OB. In such an embodiment, the traffic aggregation unit 225 further routes
the traffic having the bonded IP addresses through the traffic de-aggregator unit
235.
         [0067] In accordance with one embodiment, the traffic de-aggregator unit
235 is managed by a Service Provider that provides one or more of data
connectivity, voice connectivity, video connectivity, and mobile device connectivity
to a plurality of subscribers via the first and second WAN backhaul connections 211
and 212. In such an embodiment, the traffic de-aggregator unit 235 operates
physically separate and distinct from each of the first LAN access device 220A, the
second LAN access device 220B, the third LAN access device 230, and the traffic
aggregation unit 225.
                                             21

         [0068] Figure 2C illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 202 in
which embodiments may operate. Figure 2C introduces the traffic aggregation unit
225 as an integrated sub-component of a LAN access device 220A.
         [0069] In accordance with one embodiment, the traffic aggregation unit 225
operates as an integrated sub-component of the first LAN access device 220A, in
which the first LAN access device 220A operates physically separate and distinct
from the second LAN access device 220B. In such an embodiment, the traffic
aggregation unit 225 is communicatively interfaced with the first WAN backhaul
connection 211 via a communications interface of the first LAN access device 220A
(e.g., internal circuitry of 220A, etc.). In such an embodiment, the traffic
aggregation unit 225 is communicatively interfaced with the second LAN access
device 220B, in which the traffic aggregation unit 225 uses an indirect
communications link to the second WAN backhaul connection 212 through the
second LAN access device 220B which operates in direct communication with the
second WAN backhaul connection 212.
         [0070] Figure 2D illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 203 in
which embodiments may operate. Figure 2D introduces the traffic aggregation unit
225 as an integrated sub-component of a LAN access device 220A in
communication with a traffic de-aggregator unit 235.
         [0071] In one embodiment, the described architecture 203 or system
includes a traffic de-aggregator unit 235 which is communicatively interfaced
between the first WAN backhaul connection 211 and the second WAN backhaul
connection 212, in which the traffic aggregation unit 225 forms a logically bonded
WAN interface 213 over the first WAN backhaul 211 and the second WAN
backhaul 212 by bonding Internet Protocol (IP) addresses associated with traffic
originating from the first LAN 210A and the second LAN 210B and by further
routing the traffic having the bonded IP addresses through the traffic de-aggregator
unit 235. In accordance with one embodiment, the first WAN 205A and the second
WAN 205B and the corresponding first WAN backhaul connection 211 and second
WAN backhaul connection 212 form an aggregation network via the traffic de
aggregator 235, the traffic de-aggregator 235 being connected with Internet WAN
299 as shown.
                                             22

         [0072] Figure 2E illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 204 in
which embodiments may operate. Figure 2E introduces LAN devices 240 having
one or more wireless transceiver 241 (e.g., each with one or more antennas) to
establish one or more wireless communication paths 242A and 242B. Wireless
coverage areas 243 are further depicted as are wireless transceivers 244A and 244B
at the LAN access devices 220A-B.
         [0073] In one embodiment, at least one of a plurality of LAN devices 240
operating within the first LAN 210A use a first communication path to the first
WAN backhaul connection 211 through the first LAN access device 220A and in
such an embodiment, at least one of a plurality of LAN devices 240 operating
within the first LAN 210A also use a second communication path to the second
WAN backhaul connection 212 through the second LAN access device 220B. In
such an embodiment, at least one LAN device 240 includes at least one of: a
multiplexing wireless transceiver 241 capable to simultaneously maintain a first
wireless communication path 242A to the first LAN access device 220A and a
second wireless communication path 242B to the second LAN access device 220B
by multiplexing between the first and second wireless communication paths 242A-B
respectively; a wireless transceiver 241 capable to establish the first wireless
communication path 242A to the first LAN access device 220A and capable to
establish the wireless second communication path 242B to the second LAN access
device 220B by terminating the first wireless communication path 242A and
switching to the second wireless communication path 242B; and a first wireless
transceiver 241 and a second wireless transceiver 241, the first and second wireless
transceivers 241 capable to establish the first wireless communication path 242A to
the first LAN access device 220A and capable to establish the wireless second
communication path 242B to the second LAN access device 220B either
concurrently or not concurrently with the first wireless communication path 242A to
the first LAN access device 220A.
         [0074] In one embodiment, the first LAN access 220A device is within a
residential premises common to the at least one of a plurality of LAN devices 240
operating within the first LAN 210A and the second LAN access device 220B is
within a second residential premises in a neighboring vicinity to the first residential
                                           23

premises. In such an embodiment, a wireless coverage area 243 associated with the
second LAN access device 220B overlaps with the first residential premises and the
at least one of a plurality of LAN devices 240 operating within the first LAN 21 0A.
In such an embodiment, the at least one of a plurality of LAN devices 240 operating
within the first LAN 21 0A establishes connectivity with the second WAN backhaul
connection 212 through the second LAN access device 220B responsive to a failure
event associated with the first LAN access device 220A.
         [0075] In one embodiment, at least one of a plurality of LAN devices 240
operating within the first LAN 210A, responsive to a failure event associated with
the first LAN access device 220A, establishes connectivity to the second WAN
backhaul connection 212 via a wireless connection path 242B between an
transceiver 241 of the at least one of the plurality of LAN devices 240 within the
first plurality of LAN devices 240 and an transceiver 244B of the second LAN
access device 220B which is external to, and operationally distinct from, the first
LAN access device 220A. In such an embodiment, the failure event corresponds to a
hard failure event characterized by a total loss of connectivity between the first
LAN access device 220A and the corresponding first WAN backhaul connection
211 or a soft failure event characterized by degraded connectivity, based on a
threshold, between the first LAN access device 220A and the corresponding first
WAN backhaul connection 211.
         [0076] In one embodiment, the wireless connection between the transceiver
241 of at least one of the plurality of LAN devices 240 within the first LAN 210A
and the transceiver 244B of the second LAN access device 220B constitutes at least
one of the plurality of LAN devices 240 connecting with the second LAN access
device 220B using a guest SSID (Service Set Identification) on the second LAN
access device 220B. In a particular embodiment, the guest SSID on the second LAN
access device 220B enables guest devices (e.g., such as one of LAN devices 240
from the distinct LAN 210A) to communicate with the second WAN backhaul
connection 212 through the second LAN access device 220B. In such an
embodiment, the guest SSID on the second LAN access device 220B further
restricts the guest devices from communicating with any devices operating within
the second LAN 210B without first traversing the second WAN backhaul
                                            24

connection 212. For example, despite such devices within the second LAN 210B
being immediately networked to the same LAN access device 220B, the guest
devices must nevertheless communicate through the WAN 205A-B, for example, by
establishing communication via the Internet, as if the guest devices were still
connected to their originating LAN access device 220A. In so doing, security can be
maintained for the secondary network infrastructure while allowing the guest
devices to utilize the second WAN backhaul 212 resource.
        [0077] Figure 2F illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 206 in
which embodiments may operate. Figure 2F introduces a traffic aggregation unit
225 as an integrated sub-component within one of a plurality of LAN devices 240A.
        [0078] In accordance with one embodiment, the traffic aggregation unit 225
operates as an integrated sub-component within one of a plurality of LAN devices
240A operating within the first LAN 210A. In such an embodiment, the traffic
aggregation unit 225 is communicatively interfaced with the first WAN backhaul
connection 211 via a communications path to the first LAN access device 220A
which in turn is interfaced via a communications path to the first WAN backhaul
connection 211. In this embodiment, the traffic aggregation unit 225, integrated as a
sub-component within the one of the plurality of LAN devices 240A operating
within the first LAN 210A, further is communicatively interfaced with the second
LAN access device 220B, in which the traffic aggregation unit 225 uses an indirect
communications link to the second WAN backhaul connection 212 through the
second LAN access device 220B which operates in direct communication with the
second WAN backhaul connection 212.
        [0079] In one embodiment, the traffic aggregation unit 225 communicates
with the first LAN access device 220A through a wireless communication path
242A from the one of the plurality of LAN devices 240A to the first LAN access
device 220A and further wherein the traffic aggregation unit 225 communicates
with the second LAN access device 220B through a second wireless communication
path 242B from the one of the plurality of LAN devices 240A to the second LAN
access device 220B.
        [0080] In one embodiment, the first and second wireless communication
paths 242A-B from the one of the plurality of LAN devices 240A to the first and
                                         25

second LAN access devices 220A-B respectively, include at least one of: wireless
connectivity via a multiplexing wireless transceiver 241 that simultaneously
maintains the first wireless communication path 242A to the first LAN access
device 220A and the second wireless communication path 242B to the second LAN
access device 220B by multiplexing between the first and second wireless
communication paths 242A-B respectively; wireless connectivity via a wireless
transceiver 241 capable to establish the first wireless communication path 242A to
the first LAN access device 220A and capable to establish the wireless second
communication path 242B to the second LAN access device 220B by terminating
the first wireless communication path 242A and switching to the second wireless
communication path 242A; and wireless connectivity via a first wireless transceiver
241 and a second wireless transceiver 241, the first and second wireless transceivers
241 capable to establish the first wireless communication path 242A to the first
LAN access device 220A and capable to establish the wireless second
communication path 242B to the second LAN access device 220B, either
concurrently or not concurrently, with the first wireless communication path 242A
to the first LAN access device 220A.
         [0081] Figure 2G illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 207 in
which embodiments may operate. Figure 2G re-introduces the traffic de-aggregator
unit 235.
         [0082] In one embodiment, the architecture 207 or system further includes a
traffic de-aggregator unit 235 communicatively interfaced between the first WAN
backhaul connection 211 and the second WAN backhaul connection 212, in which
the traffic aggregation unit 225 (which is integrated as a sub-component of one of
the LAN devices 240A) forms a logically bonded WAN interface 213 over the first
WAN backhaul connection 211 and the second WAN backhaul connection 212 by
bonding Internet Protocol (IP) addresses associated with traffic originating from
both the first LAN 210A and the second LAN 210B and further by routing the
traffic having the bonded IP addresses through the traffic de-aggregator unit 235.
The traffic de-aggregator may be managed by a Service Provider that provides one
or more of data connectivity, voice connectivity, video connectivity, and mobile
device connectivity to a plurality of subscribers via the first and second WAN
                                            26

backhaul connections. The traffic de-aggregator unit 235 may be physically separate
and distinct from each of the first LAN access device 220A, the second LAN access
device 220B, a third LAN access device 230 (if one is present), and the traffic
aggregation unit 225.
         [0083] In accordance with the various embodiments described herein, each
of the first WAN backhaul connection 211 and the second WAN backhaul
connection 212 are selected from the group of WAN backhaul connections which
includes: a broadband connection; a Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) connection; a
cable connection; a femtocell connection; a mobile connection; a fiber connection; a
wireless connection; and an access Broadband over Power Line (BPL) connection.
         [0084] In accordance with the various embodiments described herein, each
of the first and second LANs 210A and 210B include at least a user device. In
accordance with the disclosed embodiments, each of the first and second LAN
access devices 220A-B communicably link each of the respective user devices with
one of the first WAN backhaul connection 211 or the second WAN backhaul
connection 212. For example, any one of the interconnected LAN nodes 238 and
239 or the LAN devices 240 from Figure 2E, 240A and 240B may be a user device.
         [0085] In accordance with the various embodiments described herein, each
of the first LAN 210A and the second LAN 210B include a plurality of
interconnected LAN nodes 238 and 239. In such an embodiment, each of the
plurality of interconnected LAN nodes 238 and 239 communicate via at least one
of: an Ethernet based network connection; a wireless based network connection; an
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.11 standards based
network connection; an 802.11 a, 802.1 1b, 802.11 g, and/or 802.1 In wireless
compatible network connection; a femto network connection transmitting via a
mobile cellular compatible protocol including at least one of a third generation (3G)
compatible protocol, a fourth generation (4G) compatible protocol, and a Long
Term Evolution (LTE) compatible protocol; a power line connection; a telephone
system connection; a Plain Old Telephone Service (POTS) connection; a G.hn
(ITU-T standardized unified high-speed wire-line based home networking)
connection; and a Coax cable connection.
         [0086] In accordance with the various embodiments described herein, each
                                           27

of the first LAN access device 220A and the second LAN access device 220B are
selected from the group of access devices which includes: a base station; an access
point; a modem; a router; a gateway; a Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) Customer
Premises Equipment (CPE) modem; an in-home power line device; a Home
Phoneline Network Alliance (HPNA) based device; an in-home coax distribution
device; a G.hn compatible device; an in-home metering communication device; an
in-home appliance communicatively interfaced with the LAN; a wireless femtocell
base station; a wireless compatible base station; a wireless mobile device repeater; a
wireless mobile device base station; a set-top box (STB)/set-top unit (STU)
customer electronics device; an Internet Protocol (IP) enabled television; an IP
enabled media player; an IP enabled gaming console; an Ethernet gateway; a
computing device connected to the LAN; a HomePlug device; an IEEE P1901
standards compatible access Broadband over Power Line (BPL) device; an Ethernet
connected computer peripheral device; an Ethernet connected router; an Ethernet
connected wireless bridge; an Ethernet connected network bridge; and an Ethernet
connected network switch.
         [0087] Figure 2H illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 208 in
which embodiments may operate. Figure 2H introduces a traffic aggregation unit
225 as an integrated sub-component within one a third LAN access device 230.
         [0088] In one embodiment, the architecture 208 or system further includes a
third LAN access device 230 which is communicably interfaced between the first
LAN access device 220A and the second LAN access device 220B. In such an
embodiment the traffic aggregation unit 225 operates as an integrated sub
component of the third LAN access device 230, in which the third LAN access
device 230 operates physically separate and distinct from each of the first LAN
access device 220A and the second LAN access device 220B.
         [0089] In one embodiment, the traffic aggregation unit uses a first
connection, via a device communicably interfaced with the second LAN access
device 220B and uses a second connection to communicably interface the traffic
aggregation unit 225 with the first WAN backhaul connection 211. In such an
embodiment, a data aggregation unit 231 combines traffic from the first connection
and traffic from the second connection into aggregated traffic.
                                          28

         [0090] In one embodiment, a data de-aggregation unit 236 is communicably
interfaced with the first WAN backhaul connection 211 and communicably
interfaced with the second WAN backhaul connection 212. In such an embodiment,
the data de-aggregation unit 236 de-aggregates traffic onto the first connection and
onto the second connection as de-aggregated traffic.
         [0091] Figure 3A illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 300 in
which embodiments may operate. Depicted are a first Wide Area Network (WAN)
at element 305A and a second WAN at 305B. WAN 305A being connected with
Local Area Network (LAN) 3 10A via WAN backhaul connection 311 and WAN
305B being connected with LAN 310B via WAN backhaul connection 312.
         [0092] In accordance with one embodiment, such an architecture 300 or
system includes a first Local Area Network (LAN) access device 320A to establish
a first LAN 3 10A and a second LAN access device 320B to establish a second LAN
3 1OB which is operationally distinct from the first LAN 3 1A. In this embodiment,
a first Wide Area Network (WAN) backhaul connection 311 provides the first LAN
access device 320A with WAN connectivity and a second WAN backhaul
connection 312 provides the second LAN access device 320B with WAN
connectivity, in which each of the first WAN backhaul connection 311 and the
second WAN backhaul connection 312 are physically distinct. This embodiment
further includes a management device 325 communicatively interfaced with each of
the first LAN access device 3 1A, the second LAN access device 3 10B, the first
WAN backhaul connection 311, and the second WAN backhaul connection 312. In
such an embodiment, the management device 325, responsive to a failure event, re
routes traffic associated with the first LAN 3 10A onto the second WAN backhaul
connection 312 or re-routes traffic associated with the second LAN 3 1OB onto the
first WAN backhaul connection 311.
         [0093] Figure 3B illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 301 in
which embodiments may operate. In accordance with one embodiment, the
management device 325 is implemented within the first LAN access device 320A
and communicatively interfaced with the LAN access device 320A via an internal
communications bus of the first LAN access device (e.g., via internal circuitry). In
such an embodiment, the management device 325 is communicatively interfaced
                                           29

with each of the second LAN access device 320B, the first WAN backhaul
connection 311, and the second WAN backhaul connection 312 via one or more
communication paths 350 external to the first LAN access device 320A.
         [0094] Figure 3C illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 302 in
which embodiments may operate. In accordance with one embodiment, the
management device 325 is implemented within a WAN access device 335A
communicatively coupled with the first WAN backhaul connection 311 via an
internal communications bus of the first WAN access device (e.g., via internal
circuitry). In such an embodiment, the management device 325 is communicatively
interfaced with each of the first LAN access device 320A, the second LAN access
device 320B, and the second WAN backhaul connection 312 via one or more
communication paths 350 external to the first WAN access device 335A.
         [0095] Figure 3D illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 303 in
which embodiments may operate. In accordance with one embodiment, the
management device 325 is implemented as an externally separate and physically
distinct device from a first WAN access device 335A communicatively coupled
with the first WAN backhaul connection 311, as an externally separate and
physically distinct device from a second WAN access device 335B
communicatively coupled with the second WAN backhaul connection 312, as an
externally separate and physically distinct device from the first LAN access device
320A, and as an externally separate and physically distinct device from the second
LAN access device 320B. In such an embodiment, the management device 325 is
communicatively interfaced with each of the first WAN access device 335A, the
second WAN access device 335B, the first LAN access device 320A, and the
second LAN access device 320B, via one or more communication paths 350
external to the externally separate and physically distinct implementation of the
management device 325.
         [0096] Figure 3E illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 304 in
which embodiments may operate. In accordance with one embodiment, such an
architecture 304 or system further includes a traffic aggregation unit 345 which
operates externally separate and physically distinct from each of the first LAN
access device 320A and the second LAN access device 320B. In such an
                                          30

embodiment, the traffic aggregation unit 345 forms a logically bonded WAN
interface 313 over the first WAN backhaul 311 and the second WAN backhaul 312.
In accordance with this embodiment, the management device 325 is implemented
within the traffic aggregation unit 345 and is communicatively interfaced with each
of the first LAN access device 320A, the second LAN access device 320B, the first
WAN backhaul connection 311, and the second WAN backhaul connection 312 via
one or more communication paths 350 external to the traffic aggregation unit 345.
         [0097] In accordance with several of the various embodiments, the traffic
aggregation unit 345 or the management device 325 operates in accordance with
Synchronous optical networking (SONET) or synchronous digital hierarchy (SDH)
multiplexing protocols. In one embodiment, the traffic aggregation unit 345 or the
management device 325, responsive to a failure event, re-routes the traffic by
performing a SONET or SDH compatible rapid re-route function. In one the traffic
aggregation unit 345 or the management device 325, responsive to a failure event,
re-routes the traffic via an Ethernet Resilient Packet Ring (RPR) implementation.
         [0098] In accordance with one embodiment, the management device 345,
responsive to a failure event, re-routes the traffic by instituting one or more of the
following events: (a) performing a first traffic re-route operation responsive to a
hard failure event characterized by a total loss of connectivity for one of the first
LAN access device 320A and the second LAN access device 320B with the
corresponding first or second WAN backhaul connection 311 or 312; or (b)
performing a second traffic re-route operation responsive to a soft failure event
characterized by degraded connectivity as determined by a threshold for one of the
first LAN access device 320A and the second LAN access device 320B with the
corresponding first or second WAN backhaul connection 311 or 312. In such an
embodiment, the first traffic re-route operation may be different than the second
traffic re-route operation.
         [0099] Figure 4A illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 400 in
which embodiments may operate. Depicted are a first Wide Area Network (WAN)
at element 405A and a second WAN at 405B. WAN 405A being connected with
Local Area Network (LAN) 410A via WAN backhaul connection 411 and WAN
405B being connected with LAN 410B via WAN backhaul connection 412.
                                            31

         [00100] In accordance with one embodiment, such an architecture 400 or
system includes a first Local Area Network (LAN) access device 420A to establish
a first LAN 410A and a second LAN access device 420B to establish a second LAN
410B operationally distinct from the first LAN 410A. In such an embodiment, a first
Wide Area Network (WAN) backhaul connection 411 provides the first LAN access
device 420A with WAN connectivity and a second WAN backhaul connection 412
provides the second LAN access device 420B with WAN connectivity, in which
each of the first WAN backhaul connection 411 and the second WAN backhaul
connection 412 are physically distinct. In this embodiment, a management device
425 is communicatively interfaced with each of the first LAN access device 420A,
the second LAN access device 420B, the first WAN backhaul connection 411, and
the second WAN backhaul connection 412. In this embodiment, the management
device 425 routes a first portion 498 of traffic originating from the first LAN 41 OA
over the first WAN backhaul connection 411 and the management device 425
further routes a second portion 499 of the traffic originating from the first LAN
410A over the second WAN backhaul connection 412.
         [00101] In one embodiment, the management device 425 routes the first
portion 498 of traffic over the first WAN backhaul connection 411 and further
routes the second portion 499 of the traffic over the second WAN backhaul
connection 412 to implement load-balancing for the first LAN 410A.
         [00102] In one embodiment, the management device 425 implements load
balancing for the second LAN 41 OB by routing a first portion 444 of traffic
originating from the second LAN 410B over the second WAN backhaul connection
412 and by further routing a second portion 445 of the traffic originating from the
second LAN 410B over the first WAN backhaul connection 411. Management
device 425 may implement load balancing for the respective first and/or second
LANs regardless of whether the management device is internal to LAN access
device 420A or 420B.
         [00103] In one embodiment, the management device 425 implementing
load balancing includes determining what portions of traffic 498 and 499 to route
over the first and second WAN backhauls, respectively, based on factors such as
bandwidth capacity of the first and second WAN backhauls, or based on other
                                           32

factors such as payment options chosen by the first and second subscribers, or
conditions imposed by their internet service providers, based on a number of nodes
associated with each of the LAN access devices, based on traffic patterns of each of
the nodes, the security options, or the capacity and capabilities of the LAN access
devices etc. These factors, among others, will cause the management device 425 to
vary the portion of traffic to route across the first and second WAN backhauls.
         [00104] In one embodiment, traffic portion 498 includes control and
management traffic and traffic portion 499 includes the payload portion of traffic
corresponding to traffic portion 498. In such an embodiment, the management
device 425 implements load balancing for the first LAN 410A by routing the first
portion 498 of traffic over the first WAN backhaul connection 411 and further
routes the second portion 499 of the traffic over the second WAN backhaul
connection 412. Separating or splitting the payload and control traffic portions in
such a way reduces the overhead caused due to the control and management traffic.
For example, when an IEEE 802.1 In LAN access device is operating in the
presence of a legacy station operating on IEEE 802.1 1b, there will be substantial
overhead due to control frames such as RTS/CTS and ACK. In such an event,
routing all the control traffic over the second WAN backhaul can help reduce
overhead and improve throughput.
         [00105] Figure 4B illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 401 in
which embodiments may operate. In accordance with one embodiment, first LAN
access device is a wireless LAN access device 421 having a first transfer rate for the
first LAN 41 OA which is greater than a second transfer rate for the first WAN
backhaul connection 411, in which the second transfer rate for the first WAN
backhaul connection 411 results (e.g., causes) a bottleneck to the traffic (e.g., the
first and second portions 498 and 499) originating from the wireless LAN access
device 421 directed to the first WAN backhaul connection 411. In one embodiment,
the management device 425 implements load-balancing for the first LAN 410A by
routing the first portion 498 of traffic over the first WAN backhaul connection 411
at a rate which is less than the second transfer rate for the first WAN backhaul
connection 411 and further by routing the second portion of the traffic 499 over the
second WAN backhaul connection 412, in which the second portion 499 of the
                                            33

traffic is a remaining portion of the traffic originating from the first LAN 41 OA.
         [00106] In one embodiment, the management device 425 implements load
balancing for the first LAN 41 OA by implementing an aggregate transfer rate for
WAN connectivity provided to the first LAN 410A by the wireless LAN access
device 421 and by implementing an aggregate transfer rate for WAN connectivity
provided to the second LAN 41 OB, in which the aggregate transfer rate for WAN
connectivity is greater than the second transfer rate for the first WAN backhaul
connection 411. For example, by utilizing both the first and second WAN backhaul
connections 411 and 412, an aggregate transfer rate for WAN connectivity can be
realized for the LANs 41OA-B which is greater than they would otherwise attain
from using only their respective single WAN backhaul connections (e.g., either 411
or 412, but not both). In an alternative embodiment, the management device 425
implements load-balancing for the first LAN 410A by assigning incoming flows to
the most lightly-loaded WAN connection. For example, the management device 425
may assign, route, or otherwise place a new incoming flow, such as a new VoIP
connection or Internet TV stream, onto the most lightly-loaded WAN connection.
         [00107] In one embodiment, the management device 425 routes the first
portion 498 of traffic over the first WAN backhaul connection 411 and further
routes the second portion 499 of the traffic over the second WAN backhaul
connection 412 by allocating a portion of bandwidth associated with the second
WAN backhaul connection 412 to the first LAN access device (e.g., 420A from
Figure 4A or the wireless LAN access device 421 of Figure 4B), in which the
allocation is based on a paid subscription tier or a service level tier associated with
the first LAN access device (420A or 421). For example, the paid subscription tier
or a service level tier may be chosen by a user when signing up for service from a
service provider. A user may elect to pay an increased subscription fee to enable a
higher aggregate transfer rate than is otherwise attainable from using only a single
WAN backhaul connection 411 or 412. Alternatively, a user might obtain a
subsidized subscription fee to allow other users access to his unused WAN
bandwidth.
         [00108] Figure 4C illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 402 in
which embodiments may operate. In accordance with one embodiment, the
                                             34

architecture 402 or system further includes a wireless communications link 422
between the first LAN access device operating as a wireless LAN access device 421
and the second LAN access device operating as a second wireless LAN access
device 423. In such an embodiment, the management device 425 instructs the
wireless LAN access device 421 to route or switch the second portion of traffic 499
over the wireless communications link 422 from the first wireless LAN access
device 421 to the second wireless LAN access device 423 and onto the second
WAN backhaul connection 412.
         [00109] In one embodiment, the second LAN access device 423 can operate
as a wireless LAN access device, distinct from the first wireless LAN access device
421. The communication link 422 may be a wireless communication link between
the first LAN access device operating as a wireless LAN access device 421 and the
second LAN access device operating as a second wireless LAN access device 423.
         [00110] In accordance with one embodiment, the first WAN backhaul
connection 411 provides the first LAN access device (e.g., 420A at Figure 4A or
421 at Figure 4C) with WAN connectivity via the first WAN backhaul connection
411 to a Service Provider that provides one or more of data connectivity, voice
connectivity, video connectivity, and mobile device connectivity to a plurality of
subscribers. In this embodiment, the second WAN backhaul connection 412
provides the second LAN access device (e.g., 420B at Figure 4A or 423 at Figure
4C) with WAN connectivity via the second WAN backhaul connection 412 to the
same Service Provider via a physically distinct communications link to the same
Service Provider.
         [00111] In one embodiment, the first WAN backhaul connection 411
provides the first LAN access device (420A or 421) with WAN connectivity via the
first WAN backhaul connection 411 to a first Service Provider that provides one or
more of data connectivity, voice connectivity, video connectivity, and mobile device
connectivity to a plurality of subscribers and in this embodiment, the second WAN
backhaul connection 412 provides the second LAN access device (420B or 423)
with WAN connectivity via the second WAN backhaul connection 412 to a second
Service Provider which is separate and distinct from the first Service Provider.
         [00112] Figure 4D illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 403 in
                                           35

which embodiments may operate. In accordance with one embodiment, the
architecture 403 or system further includes the management device 425 collecting a
first information set 470A about the first WAN backhaul connection 411; further
includes the management device 425 collecting a second information set 470B
about the first LAN 410A; further includes the management device 425 collecting a
third information 470C set about the second WAN backhaul connection 412; and
further includes the management device 425 collecting a fourth information set
470D about the second LAN 410B. In such an embodiment, the management device
425 jointly analyzes at least a portion from each of the first, second, third, and
fourth information sets 470A-D collected and identifies an operational condition
471 affecting the first and second WAN backhaul connections 411-412 and further
affecting the first and second LANs 410A-B based on the jointly analyzed collected
information sets 470A-D. In accordance with such an embodiment, the management
device 425 initiates a management event 472 responsive to the operational condition
471 being identified.
         [00113] In one embodiment, responsive to the operational condition 471
being identified, the management device 425 initiating the management event 472
constitutes generating instructions specifying a configuration change to one or more
of: a configuration change for a channel allocation associated with a wireless based
first LAN access device 420A or a wireless based second LAN access device 420B,
or both; a configuration change to a power allocation scheme for signals associated
with the wireless based first LAN access device 420A or the wireless based second
LAN access device 420B, or both; a configuration change to STA (Station) to AP
(Access Point) associations associated with the wireless based first LAN access
device 420A or the wireless based second LAN access device 420B, or both; a
configuration change to beacon power characteristics associated with the wireless
based first LAN access device 420A or the wireless based second LAN access
device 420B, or both; a configuration change to beacon intervals associated with the
wireless based first LAN access device 420A or the wireless based second LAN
access device 420B, or both; a configuration change to transmission rates associated
with the wireless based first LAN access device 420A or the wireless based second
LAN access device 420B, or both; a configuration change to beamforming
                                           36

characteristics of the wireless based first LAN access device 420A or the wireless
based second LAN access device 420B, or both; a configuration change to a
Request to Send / Clear to Send (RTS/CTS) configuration associated with the
wireless based first LAN access device 420A or the wireless based second LAN
access device 420B, or both; a configuration change to fragmentation configuration
of the wireless based first LAN access device 420A or the wireless based second
LAN access device 420B, or both; a configuration change to the wireless mode (e.g.
IEEE 802.11 a/b/g/n) configuration of the wireless based first LAN access device
420A or the wireless based second LAN access device 420B, or both; a
configuration change to the bandwidth utilized by the wireless based first LAN
access device 420A or the wireless based second LAN access device 420B, or both
(example, channel bonding in IEEE 802.11 n); a configuration change to frame
aggregation of traffic from the wireless based first LAN access device 420A or the
wireless based second LAN access device 420B, or both; a configuration change to
guard interval of the wireless based first LAN access device 420A or the wireless
based second LAN access device 420B, or both; a configuration change to an
antenna array configuration of the wireless based first LAN access device 420A or
to the wireless based second LAN access device 420B, or both; a configuration
change to preamble length used by the wireless based first LAN access device 420A
or the wireless based second LAN access device 420B, or both; a configuration
change to handoff techniques of the wireless based first LAN access device 420A or
the wireless based second LAN access device 420B, or both; a configuration change
to power saving modes of the wireless based first LAN access device 420A or the
wireless based second LAN access device 420B, or both; and a configuration
change to maximum number of retransmission attempts of the wireless based first
LAN access device 420A or the wireless based second LAN access device 420B, or
both.
        [00114] The wireless based LAN access devices involved in this
configuration may be chosen from a wider set of wireless based LAN access devices
already available. Such LAN access devices may support high throughput. In one
embodiment, selection of these LAN access devices is based on one or more of a
Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI), a wireless bit rate, channel usage, pre
                                            37

existing traffic loads, overall achievable throughput, other similar performance
indicators, or by using a combination of such indicators to estimate available
throughput.
         [00115] In one embodiment, the management event 472 is selected from the
group of management events 472 which includes sending instructions 478 to
establish a direct communications link 476 between the first LAN access device
420A and the second LAN access device 420B responsive to the joint analysis
indicating an operational problem (e.g., such as the identified operational condition
471) with the first WAN backhaul connection 411. For example, the operational
problem may be derived from or correspond to the identified operational condition
471.
         [00116] Figure 4E illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 404 in
which embodiments may operate. In accordance with one embodiment, the
management event 472 is selected from the group of management events 472 which
includes sending instructions 478 to establish a direct communications link 476
between a node 477 operating within the first LAN 410A, and the second LAN
access device 420B, responsive to the joint analysis indicating an operational
problem with the first LAN access device 410A. For example, responsive to the
operational condition 471 being identified. The instructions 478 may correspond to
or be derived from the management event 472. In accordance with the disclosed
embodiments, node 477 may be implemented as one of a wireless node, a mobile
node, or as a LAN device node.
         [00117] In accordance with several of the various embodiments, the
management device 425 jointly analyzes the collected information sets 470A-D by
analyzing bandwidth usage over time of the first LAN 41 OA and bandwidth usage
over time of the second LAN 410B and detects, as the operational condition 471, a
traffic imbalance between the first LAN 410A and the second LAN 410B. In such
an embodiment, initiating the management event 472 constitutes the management
device 425 allocating unused bandwidth associated with the first WAN backhaul
connection 411 to the second LAN access device 420A or constitutes allocating
unused bandwidth associated with the second WAN backhaul connection 412 to the
first LAN access device 420A based on the identified traffic imbalance between the
                                            38

first LAN 410A and the second LAN 410B.
         [00118] In one embodiment, initiating the management event 472
constitutes the management device 425 determining whether a LAN access device
has unused bandwidth at a given time of the day or week. In such an embodiment, in
addition to or as an alternative to utilizing the bandwidth for a second LAN device,
multiple SSIDs may be used to open the unused bandwidth for public or private
usage during the given time of the day or week or during some other specified time.
         [00119] In accordance with several of the various embodiments, the second
information set 470B about the first LAN 410A and the fourth information set 470D
about the second LAN 410B each include information specific to a first
communication layer of the first and second LANs 41OA-B and the first information
set 470A about the first WAN backhaul connection 411 and the third information
set 470C about the second WAN backhaul connection 412 includes information
specific to a second communication layer of the first and second WAN backhaul
connections 411-412 which is different than the first communication layer of the
first and second LANs 410A-B.
         [00120] Figure 4F illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 406 in
which embodiments may operate. In accordance with one embodiment, the second
information set 470B about the first LAN 410A and the fourth information set 470D
about the second LAN 410B each include neighborhood analysis relating to Internet
connectivity provided to a plurality of other locations in a shared geographical area
469 with the management device 425. In such an embodiment, the management
device 425 initiating the management event 472 responsive to the operational
condition 471 being identified constitutes generating instructions 479 to change a
configuration of the first WAN backhaul connection 411 or constitutes generating
instructions 479 to change a configuration of the second WAN backhaul connection
412, or both, based on the neighborhood analysis.
         [00121] In accordance with one embodiment, the first information set 470A
about the first WAN 410A and the third information set 470C about the second
WAN 410B each include neighborhood analysis relating to Internet connectivity
provided to a plurality of other locations in a shared geographical area 469 with the
management device and the management device 425 initiating the management
                                             39

event 472 responsive to the operational condition being identified 471 constitutes
the management device 425 generating instructions 479 to change a configuration of
the first LAN access device 420A or the second LAN access device 420B, or both,
based on the neighborhood analysis. The neighborhood analysis and the various
information sets 470A-D depicted at Figures 4D through 4F may be utilized in
association with the other disclosed embodiments described herein, including all of
the exemplary embodiments depicted and described with regard to Figures 4A
through 4E.
         [00122] In one embodiment, the management device 425 initiating the
management event 472 responsive to the operational condition being identified 471
constitutes the management device 425 generating instructions 479 to modify the
identified operational condition 471 in which the management device 425
communicates the generated instructions 479 to one or more of: a network element
466, a WAN device 468, and/or a LAN device 467 communicatively interfaced with
the management device and further in which the generated instructions 479 are
communicated via a protocol selected from the group of protocols which includes: a
TR-069 (Technical Report 069) compatible communications protocol; a
Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) communications
protocol; a Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) communications
protocol; an out-of-band telephone line protocol; a Digital Subscriber Line
Embedded Operations Channel (DSL EOC) communications protocol; a cable
control channel communications protocol; a power line control channel
communications protocol; a Command Line Interface (CLI) protocol; and a
Transaction Language 1 (TL1) communications protocol.
         [00123] In accordance with one embodiment, the first WAN backhaul
connection 411 and the second WAN backhaul connection 412 are each
communicably interfaced with the management device 425 via one of: a wireless
network connection; a wired network connection; a Digital Subscriber Line (DSL)
network connection; a power line network connection; a Passive Optical Network
(PON) based network connection; a fiber optic based network connection; and a
cable based network connection.
         [00124] In one embodiment, the management device 425 is one of: a Digital
                                         40

Subscriber Line (DSL) modem operating as a Customer Premises Equipment (CPE)
device to communicatively interface a DSL based backhaul provided via the first
WAN backhaul connection 411 to the first LAN 410A; a cable modem operating to
communicatively interface a cable network based backhaul provided via the first
WAN backhaul connection 411 to the first LAN 410A; a wireless modem operating
to communicatively interface a wireless based backhaul provided via the first WAN
backhaul connection 411 to the first LAN 410A; a power line modem operating to
communicatively interface a power line based backhaul provided via the first WAN
backhaul connection 411 to the first LAN 410A; an Optical Network Terminal
(ONT) operating to communicatively interface a fiber optic based backhaul
provided via the first WAN backhaul connection 411 to the first LAN 410A; a
router operating to communicatively interface the first WAN backhaul connection
411 to the first LAN 410A; a gateway operating to communicatively interface the
first WAN backhaul connection 411 to the first LAN 410A; and a computing device
remotely located from a WAN/LAN interface through which a communication
channel related to the first WAN backhaul connection 411 and the first LAN 410A
is connected, in which the computing device provides remote monitoring and
management functionality for the WAN/LAN interface.
        [00125] In accordance with the various embodiments, the management
device 425 collecting the first, second, third, and fourth information sets 470A-D
constitutes the management device 425 collecting each of the information sets
470A-D from an information source selected from the group of information sources
which includes: a Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) Customer Premises Equipment
(CPE) modem; an in-home power line device; a Home Phoneline Network Alliance
(HPNA) based device; an in-home coax distribution device; a G.hn compatible
device; an in-home metering communication device; an in-home appliance
communicatively interfaced with the LAN; a wireless femtocell base station; a
wireless compatible base station; a wireless mobile device repeater; a wireless
mobile device base station; a set-top box (STB)/set-top unit (STU) customer
electronics device; an Internet Protocol (IP) enabled television; an IP enabled media
player; an IP enabled gaming console; an Ethernet gateway; a computing device
connected to the LAN; an Ethernet connected computer peripheral device; an
                                            41

Ethernet connected router; an Ethernet connected wireless bridge; an Ethernet
connected network bridge; and an Ethernet connected network switch.
         [00126] In accordance with the various embodiments, the first WAN
backhaul connection 411 and the second WAN backhaul connection 412 are
selected from the group of WAN backhaul connections 411 and 412 which include:
a broadband connection; a DSL connection; a cable connection; a femtocell
connection; a mobile connection; a fiber connection; a wireless connection; and an
access Broadband over Power Line (BPL) connection.
         [00127] In one embodiment, each of the first LAN 410A and the second
LAN 410B include a plurality of interconnected LAN nodes 238. In such an
embodiment, each of the plurality of interconnected LAN nodes 238 communicate
via at least one of: an Ethernet based network connection; a wireless based network
connection; an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.11
standards based network connection; an 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.11g, 802.11ad at 60
GHz, and/or 802.1 In wireless compatible network connection; a femto network
connection transmitting via a mobile cellular compatible protocol including at least
one of a third generation (3G) compatible protocol, a fourth generation (4G)
compatible protocol, and a Long Term Evolution (LTE) compatible protocol; a
power line connection; a telephone system connection; a Plain Old Telephone
Service (POTS) connection; a G.hn (ITU-T standardized unified high-speed wire
line based home networking) connection; and a Coax cable connection.
         [00128] In one embodiment, each of the first LAN access device 420A and
the second LAN access device 420B are selected from the group of devices which
includes: a base station; an access point; a modem; a router; a gateway; a Digital
Subscriber Line (DSL) Customer Premises Equipment (CPE) modem; an in-home
power line device; a Home Phoneline Network Alliance (HPNA) based device; an
in-home coax distribution device; a G.hn compatible device; an in-home metering
communication device; an in-home appliance communicatively interfaced with the
LAN; a wireless femtocell base station; a wireless compatible base station; a
wireless mobile device repeater; a wireless mobile device base station; a set-top box
(STB)/set-top unit (STU) customer electronics device; an Internet Protocol (IP)
enabled television; an IP enabled media player; an IP enabled gaming console; ; a
                                           42

60 GHz capable station; PAN (Personal Area Networks) capable device; an Ethernet
gateway; a computing device connected to the LAN; an Ethernet connected
computer peripheral device; an Ethernet connected router; an Ethernet connected
wireless bridge; an Ethernet connected network bridge; and an Ethernet connected
network switch.
         [00129] In one embodiment, each of the first LAN 410A and the second
LAN 410B include a plurality of interconnected LAN nodes 238 and each of the
plurality of interconnected LAN nodes 238 are selected from the group of nodes
which includes: a computer with LAN connectivity; a notebook with LAN
connectivity; a mobile phone with LAN connectivity; a game console with LAN
connectivity; an electronic computing machine with LAN connectivity; an IPTV
with LAN connectivity; storage devices with LAN connectivity; devices that are
primarily purposed for other applications and can have LAN connectivity, for
example, household lighting, alarm systems, heating/cooling and other household
appliances, etc.
         [00130] Figure 4G illustrates an alternative exemplary architecture 407 in
which embodiments may operate. In accordance with certain embodiments, the
management device 425 collects, for joint analysis, information from the LANs
410A, 410B, 410C, 410D, 410E, and 410F, including neighborhood analysis 440
relating to Internet connectivity provided to a plurality of locations in a
neighborhood or a shared geographical area 469 with the management device 425.
In such an embodiment, initiating a management event 472 includes a management
device 425 generating instructions or commands to change a configuration of a
WAN device based on the neighborhood analysis 440 collected. In an alternative
embodiment, initiating a management event 472 includes a management device 425
generating instructions to change a configuration of a LAN device (e.g., one of
nodes 477A-C) based on the neighborhood analysis 440.
         [00131] Joint analysis by the management device 425 may include
conducting neighborhood analysis including aggregating information multiple
sources to provide a broader analytical context. For example, nodes 477A, 477B,
and 477C are depicted as traversing a shared back-haul 414 to a WAN 405A. WAN
405A includes a management device 425 implemented as described herein. Because
                                          43

nodes 477A-C all traverse a common or shared back-haul 414, information may be
retrievable from each of the nodes 477A-C and correspondingly from Local Area
Networks 410A, 410B, and 410C respectively. The information may be collected by
management device 425 within WAN 405A and utilized to optimize the WAN and
LAN networks and the communication paths between the respective WAN and
LAN networks.
         [00132] For example, a shared back-haul 414 may exist with DSL networks
in which multiple twisted pair lines traverse a common DSL binder; a shared back
haul 414 may be present with multiple coaxial cable internet customers each
contending for WAN based resources over a single coaxial cable over which at least
a portion of WAN back-haul is implemented; a shared back-haul 414 may be
present with a power line based Internet service provider in which multiple LANs
(e.g., 410A-C) associated with distinct end-users contend for WAN based resources
over the same physical transmission lines; a shared back-haul 414 may similarly be
present where multiple LANs (e.g., 410A-C) associated with distinct end-users
contend for WAN based resources over the same wireless transmission spectrum; a
shared back-haul 414 may be present with fiber optic based connections each
contending for WAN based resources; or a shared back-haul 414 may comprise of a
combination of the above communication means, such as a combination of coaxial
cable, fiber and twisted pairs.
         [00133] In such embodiments, a management device 425 may collect
information from multiple distinct LANs and analyze the collected information from
the multiple LANs to identify an operational condition 471. Such analysis may be
referred to as neighborhood analysis. The management device 425 may then report,
diagnose, monitor, or generate instructions to implement an operational change via a
management event 472 based on the neighborhood analysis. For example, the
management device 425 may implement WAN/LAN network optimizations which
include increasing transmit power and data rates to one LAN (e.g., 410A) based on
determination that another LAN represented within the neighborhood analysis is
inactive or has a low activity rate (e.g., LAN 410C may be determined to be
underutilized). In such an embodiment, a corresponding decrease of transmit power
and data rate may be implemented for the underutilized LAN (e.g., 410C in such an
                                            44

example).
        [00134] In another embodiment, neighborhood analysis may indicate that
the shared back-haul 414 is saturated due to a demand load in excess of capacity
based on analysis of LAN information retrieved from the multiple distinct LANs
410A-C in which case the management device 425 may responsively implement a
load-balancing algorithm on a WAN/LAN interface (e.g., a DSL modem, cable
modem, ONT unit, etc.) interfacing each of the respective LANs 410A-C to the
single shared back-haul 414. In such a way, overall network efficiency may be
improved by reducing collisions, buffering queues, data re-transmits, and other
excessive overhead waste that may occur due to an overwhelmed network
communication path, such as a shared WAN back-haul 414.
        [00135] In accordance with an alternative embodiment, a collection module
of a management device 425 collects the neighborhood analysis from a WAN
operator (e.g., WAN 405B), where the neighborhood analysis describes LAN
wireless transmission channels for a plurality of locations in a shared geographical
area 469 with the management device. For example, within the neighborhood or
shared geographical area 469 are multiple distinct LANs 410D, 410E, and 410F.
Each of the distinct LANs 410D-F are transmitting information 440 to WAN 405B,
such as an ISP or Wide Area Network Operator. The information 440 sent via each
of the LANs may describe various characteristics about the LAN from which the
information originated. In one embodiment, the WAN 405B aggregates the
information 440 and makes the aggregate information available as neighborhood
analysis. Each management device 425 within each of the respective LANs 410D-F
may then collect and analyze the neighborhood analysis, and may additionally
implement operational changes within a corresponding LAN 410D-F based on the
information collected from the WAN 405B.
        [00136] Thus, in accordance with one embodiment, instructions are
generated by a management device 425 to change the configuration of a LAN
device based on the neighborhood analysis. In one embodiment, the generated
instructions select a LAN wireless transmission channel for a LAN device
communicatively interfaced with the management device 425 that minimizes
wireless interference between the LAN device and a plurality of other locations in
                                          45

the neighborhood or shared geographical area 469 with the management device 425.
In some embodiments, each of the management devices within the various LANs
410D-F implement similar instructions, although, the management devices 425
within the respective LANs 410D-F need not have operational awareness of any
other management device 425 as the neighborhood analysis is collected from WAN
405B. In alternative embodiments, a management device within the WAN 405B or
located elsewhere may initiate instructions to implement an operational change via a
management event 472 within the WAN 405B or within multiple distinct LANs
410D-F.
        [00137] In the above embodiment, operational efficiency of the individual
LANs 410A-F may be improved by reducing interference between closely located
LANs, based on the neighborhood analysis. Such information may be correlated by
a WAN operator based on, for example, mapping overlapping identifiers to a
virtually rendered neighborhood or shared geographic area 469 or alternatively,
based on actual knowledge of geographic locations for multiple LANs 410, for
example, by cross referencing subscribers' service address information to physical
locations.
        [00138] Diagnostics may similarly rely upon neighborhood analysis yielded
from multiple distinct LANs 410. For example, multiple LAN devices 410A-F
exhibiting high error counts, or abnormal retrains/modem resets, may be indicative
of a fault within the WAN 405A-B infrastructure rather than a statistically less
likely coincidence that multiple LAN side devices are each simultaneously
exercising a similar fault. In a complementary way, neighborhood analysis from
multiple LANs 410A-F within a common geographical area or multiple LANs
associated with a single shared back-haul 414 may aid in systematically diagnosing
a LAN side fault within a particular end-user consumer's local area network where
similar devices operating in neighboring LANs 410A-F do not present
corresponding errors or faults within the neighborhood analysis.
        [00139] Figure 5A shows a diagrammatic representation of a system 500 in
accordance with which embodiments may operate, be installed, integrated, or
configured.
        [00140] In one embodiment, system 500 includes a memory 595 and a
                                          46

processor or processors 596. For example, memory 595 may store instructions to be
executed and processor(s) 596 may execute such instructions. Processor(s) 596 may
also implement or execute implementing logic 560 having logic to implement the
methodologies discussed herein. System 500 includes communication bus(es) 515 to
transfer transactions, instructions, requests, and data within system 500 among a
plurality of peripheral devices communicably interfaced with one or more
communication buses 515. In one embodiment, system 500 includes a
communication bus 515 to interface, transfer, transact, relay, and and/or
communicate information, transactions, instructions, requests, and data within
system 500, and among plurality of peripheral devices. System 500 further includes
management interface 525, for example, to receive requests, return responses, and
otherwise interface with network elements located separately from system 500.
         [00141] In some embodiments, management interface 525 communicates
information via an out-of-band connection separate from LAN and/or WAN based
communications, where "in-band" communications are communications that
traverse the same communication means as payload data (e.g., content) being
exchanged between networked devices and where "out-of-band" communications
are communications that traverse an isolated communication means, separate from
the mechanism for communicating the payload data. An out-of-band connection
may serve as a redundant or backup interface over which to communicate control
data between the management device 501 (or one of 170, 325, or 425) and other
networked devices or between the management device 501 and a third party service
provider.
         [00142] System 500 further includes LAN interface 530 to communicate
information via a LAN based connection, including collecting LAN information
from within a LAN, reporting information and diagnostics to other entities within
the LAN, and for initiating instructions and commands over the LAN. Information
communicated via a LAN interface 530 may, in some embodiments, traverse the
LAN to a LAN to WAN interface and continue to a destination within a connected
WAN. System 500 further includes WAN interface 535 to communicate
information via a WAN based connection, including collecting WAN information
from within a WAN, reporting information and diagnostics to other entities within
                                            47

the WAN, and for initiating instructions and commands over the WAN. Information
communicated via WAN interface 535 may, in some embodiments, traverse the
WAN to a WAN to LAN interface and continue to a LAN based destination.
        [00143] System 500 further includes stored historical information 550 that
may be analyzed or referenced when conducting long term trending analysis and
reporting. System 500 may further include multiple management events 555, any of
which may be initiated responsive to the identification of an operational condition.
For example, corrective actions, additional diagnostics, information probes,
configuration change requests, local commands, remote execution commands, and
the like may be specified by and triggered as a management event 555. Similarly,
operational reports, configuration reports, network activity reports and diagnostic
reports may be generated and sent in accordance with stored management events
555. The stored historical information 550 and the management events 555 may be
stored upon a hard drive, persistent data store, a database, or other storage location
within system 500.
        [00144] Distinct within system 500 is Management Device 501 which
includes collection module 570, analysis module 575, diagnostics module 580, and
implementation module 585. Management Device 501 may be installed and
configured in a compatible system 500 as is depicted by Figure 5A, or provided
separately so as to operate in conjunction with appropriate implementing logic 560
or other software.
        [00145] In accordance with one embodiment, collection module 570
collects information from available sources, such as LAN information and WAN
information via interfaces of system 500, including one or more of management
interface 525, LAN interface 530, and/or WAN interface 535. Analysis module 575
analyzes the information retrieved via collection module 570. In some
embodiments, LAN information and WAN information is jointly analyzed to
identify an operational condition within the LAN based on collected WAN
information or identify an operational condition within the WAN based on collected
LAN information. Analysis module 575 may further perform long term trending
analysis based on stored historical information 550 or conduct neighborhood
analysis based on aggregation data yielded from multiple separate and distinct
                                           48

LANs, or conduct other joint analysis based on LAN information sets received
and/or based on WAN backhaul connection information sets received. Diagnostics
module 580 may conduct specialized diagnostic routines and algorithms in
conjunction with or separately from analysis module 575. Diagnostics module 580
may conduct additional probing diagnostics to retrieve or trigger the output of
additional diagnostics information for further analysis. Implementation module 585
implements and initiates various management events 555 including generating and
instantiating instructions for local or remote execution, generating and transmitting
configuration change requests, generating and sending operational reports,
diagnostic reports, and configuration reports.
         [00146] Figure 5B shows a diagrammatic representation of a system 502 in
accordance with which embodiments may operate, be installed, integrated, or
configured. Depicted as before are a memory 595, processor(s), bus 515, a
management interface 525 to communicate with system 502 including to
communicate with sub-components 591 and 590 of system 502, LAN interface 530
capable to communicate with LANs and LAN devices, WAN interface 535 capable
to communicate with WANs, WAN backhaul connections and WAN devices, and
implementing logic 560.
         [00147] Traffic aggregation unit 591 and traffic de-aggregator 590 are
separately depicted within system 502. Traffic aggregation unit 591 includes
receiving unit 581 to receive data, packets, traffic, control signals and messages, and
so forth. Traffic aggregation unit 591 includes backhaul bonding unit 582 to bond
multiple distinct WAN backhaul connections into a single logical backhaul
connection. Traffic aggregation unit 591 includes data aggregation unit 583 to
collect and aggregate data, packets, traffic, and so forth associated with multiple
distinct connections, such as distinct LAN connections, and place the incoming data,
packets, traffic, etc., onto a logical bonded backhaul connection formed by the
traffic aggregation unit 591. The data, packets, traffic, etc., once aggregated by data
aggregation unit 583 are transmitted, forwarded, or routed forward via the
transmitting unit 584.
         [00148] Traffic de-aggregator 590 includes receiving unit 591 to receive
incoming data, packets, traffic, etc. For example, such incoming data, packets,
                                            49

control packets, traffic may originate from various sources within a WAN, such as
from sources accessible via the Internet, and be destined for one of the LANs
communicably interfaced with the traffic de-aggregator 590. Traffic de-aggregator
590 further includes data de-aggregation unit 593 to split, separate, divide up, de
aggregate incoming data, packets, traffic etc. which is received by receiving unit
591. For example, data coming into the traffic de-aggregator 590 needs to be split
up and placed onto different WAN backhaul connections for transmission back to an
originating source or to a target source in accordance with the described
embodiments. Traffic de-aggregator 590 further includes transmitting unit 594 to
place de-aggregated data, packets, frames, etc., onto multiple WAN backhaul
connections for transmission to a specified target as described above.
         [00149] Figures 6A, 6B, and 6C are flow diagrams 600A, 600B, and 600C
respectively, illustrating methods for traffic aggregation; methods for traffic load
balancing; and methods for self-healing in accordance with described embodiments.
Methods 600A, 600B, and/or 600C may be performed by processing logic that may
include hardware (e.g., circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode,
etc.), software (e.g., instructions run on a processing device to perform various
operations such as interfacing functions, collecting, monitoring, diagnosing and
reporting information, and executing/initiating management events, commands and
instructions responsive to analysis and diagnosis, or some combination thereof). In
one embodiment, methods 600A, 600B, and 600C are performed or coordinated via
a Management device such as that depicted at element 170 of Figure 1 or via a
Management Device such as that depicted at element 501 of Figure 5A. Other
embodiments utilize a traffic aggregation unit such as that set forth at element 225
beginning at Figure 2A and element 591 of Figure 5B. Still other embodiments
utilize a traffic de-aggregator such as that set forth at element 235 beginning at
Figure 2B and element 590 of Figure 5B. Some of the blocks and/or operations
listed below are optional in accordance with certain embodiments. The numbering
of the blocks presented is for the sake of clarity and is not intended to prescribe an
order of operations in which the various blocks must occur. Additionally, operations
from the various flows 600A, 600B, and 600C may be utilized in a variety of
combinations.
                                             50

        [00150] Method 600A begins with processing logic for establishing a first
Local Area Network (LAN) via a first access device as set forth at block 602. At
block 604, processing logic establishes a second LAN via a second access device.
        [00151] At block 606, processing logic provides the first LAN access
device with WAN connectivity via a first Wide Area Network (WAN) backhaul
connection and at block 608, processing logic provides the second LAN access
device with WAN connectivity via a second WAN backhaul connection.
        [00152] At block 610, processing logic communicatively interfaces a traffic
aggregation unit.
        [00153] At block 612, processing logic forms a logically bonded WAN
interface over the first WAN backhaul and the second WAN backhaul.
        [00154] At block 614, processing logic combines traffic from different
connections into aggregated traffic.
        [00155] At block 616, processing logic communicatively interfaces a traffic
de-aggregator.
        [00156] At block 618, processing logic bonds Internet Protocol (IP)
addresses associated with traffic originating from both the first LAN and the second
LAN.
        [00157] At block 620, processing logic routes the traffic having the bonded
IP addresses through the traffic de-aggregator.
        [00158] At block 622, processing logic provides an alternate backup
communications path to the logically bonded WAN interface responsive to a failure
event.
        [00159] Method 600B begins with processing logic for establishing a first
Local Area Network (LAN) via a first access device as set forth at block 640. At
block 642, processing logic establishes a second LAN via a second access device.
        [00160] At block 644, processing logic provides the first LAN access
device with WAN connectivity via a first Wide Area Network (WAN) backhaul
connection and at block 646, processing logic provides the second LAN access
device with WAN connectivity via a second WAN backhaul connection.
        [00161] At block 648, processing logic communicatively interfaces a
management device.
                                           51

         [00162] At block 650, processing logic routes a first portion of traffic
originating from the first LAN over the first WAN backhaul connection.
         [00163] At block 652, processing logic routes a second portion of the traffic
originating from the first LAN over the second WAN backhaul connection.
         [00164] At block 654, processing logic implements load-balancing for the
first LAN or the second LAN or both.
         [00165] At block 656, processing logic implements an aggregate transfer
rate for WAN connectivity which is greater than a transfer rate for the first or
second WAN backhaul connections individually.
         [00166] At block 658, processing logic allocates a portion of bandwidth
associated with the second WAN backhaul connection to the first LAN access
device.
         [00167] At block 660, processing logic instructs a first LAN device to route
or switch the second portion of traffic over a wireless communications link from the
first LAN access device to the second LAN access device and onto the second
WAN backhaul connection.
         [00168] At block 662, processing logic collects information about the first
and second WAN backhaul connections and the first and second LANs.
         [00169] At block 664, processing logic jointly analyzes the collected
information to identify an operational condition.
         [00170] At block 666, processing logic initiates a management event
responsive to the operational condition being identified.
         [00171] At block 668, processing logic generates instructions specifying a
configuration change to a network element responsive to the operational condition.
         [00172] Method 600C begins with processing logic for establishing a first
Local Area Network (LAN) via a first access device as set forth at block 680. At
block 682, processing logic establishes a second LAN via a second access device.
         [00173] At block 684, processing logic provides the first LAN access
device with WAN connectivity via a first Wide Area Network (WAN) backhaul
connection and at block 686, processing logic provides the second LAN access
device with WAN connectivity via a second WAN backhaul connection.
         [00174] At block 688, processing logic communicatively interfaces a
                                          52

management device.
         [00175] At block 690, processing logic implements the management device
from within the first LAN access device, from within a WAN access device, from
within an externally separate and physically distinct device separate from the LAN
access device and the WAN access device, or from within a service provider, and
operates the management device therefrom.
         [00176] At block 692, processing logic re-routes traffic responsive to a
failure event.
         [00177] At block 694, processing logic performs a SONET or SDH
compatible rapid re-route function.
         [00178] At block 696, processing logic performs a first traffic re-route
operation responsive to a hard failure event characterized by a total loss of
connectivity.
         [00179] At block 698, processing logic performs a second traffic re-route
operation responsive to a soft failure event characterized by degraded connectivity.
         [00180] Figure 7 illustrates a diagrammatic representation of a machine
700 in the exemplary form of a computer system, in accordance with one
embodiment, within which a set of instructions, for causing the machine 700 to
perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein, may be executed.
In alternative embodiments, the machine may be connected (e.g., networked) to
other machines in a Local Area Network (LAN), a Wide Area Network, an intranet,
an extranet, or the Internet. The machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a
client machine in a client-server network environment, or as a peer machine in a
peer-to-peer (or distributed) network environment. Certain embodiments of the
machine may be in the form of a personal computer (PC), a tablet PC, a set-top box
(STB), a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a cellular telephone, a web appliance, a
server, a network router, switch or bridge, computing system, or any machine
capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify
actions to be taken by that machine. Further, while only a single machine is
illustrated, the term "machine" shall also be taken to include any collection of
machines (e.g., computers) that individually or jointly execute a set (or multiple
sets) of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed
                                           53

herein.
         [00181] The exemplary computer system 700 includes a processor 702, a
main memory 704 (e.g., read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, dynamic random
access memory (DRAM) such as synchronous DRAM (SDRAM) or Rambus
DRAM (RDRAM), etc., static memory such as flash memory, static random access
memory (SRAM), volatile but high-data rate RAM, etc.), and a secondary memory
718 (e.g., a persistent storage device including hard disk drives and persistent data
base implementations), which communicate with each other via a bus 730. Main
memory 704 includes information and instructions and software program
components necessary for performing and executing the functions with respect to
the various embodiments of the Management Device, the traffic aggregation unit,
and/or the traffic de-aggregator as described herein. For example, historical
WAN/LAN information 724 may be collected LAN information from a LAN and
WAN information from a LAN which may be collected over a period of time and
referenced later for performing trending analysis. Management events may be
initiated based on historical WAN/LAN information 724. Operational conditions
may be derived from historical WAN/LAN information 724. Such historical
WAN/LAN information 724 may include various information sets, such as those
collected from LANs, WANs, or WAN backhaul connections, historical WAN/LAN
information 724 may include neighborhood analysis, and so forth. Management
events 723 may be stored within main memory 704 and as collected and determined
by management device 734. Main memory 704 and its sub-elements (e.g. 723 and
724) are operable in conjunction with processing logic 726 and/or software 722 and
processor 702 to perform the methodologies discussed herein.
         [00182] Processor 702 represents one or more general-purpose processing
devices such as a microprocessor, central processing unit, or the like. More
particularly, the processor 702 may be a complex instruction set computing (CISC)
microprocessor, reduced instruction set computing (RISC) microprocessor, very
long instruction word (VLIW) microprocessor, processor implementing other
instruction sets, or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets.
Processor 702 may also be one or more special-purpose processing devices such as
an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array
                                            54

(FPGA), a digital signal processor (DSP), network processor, or the like. Processor
702 is configured to execute the processing logic 726 for performing the operations
and functionality which is discussed herein.
         [00183] The computer system 700 may further include one or more network
interface cards 708 to communicatively interface the computer system 700 with one
or more networks 720 from which information may be collected for analysis. The
computer system 700 also may include a user interface 710 (such as a video display
unit, a liquid crystal display (LCD), or a cathode ray tube (CRT)), an alphanumeric
input device 712 (e.g., a keyboard), a cursor control device 714 (e.g., a mouse), and
a signal generation device 716 (e.g., an integrated speaker). The computer system
700 may further include peripheral device 736 (e.g., wireless or wired
communication devices, memory devices, storage devices, audio processing
devices, video processing devices, etc.). The computer system 700 may perform the
functions of a Management Device 734 capable interfacing networks, monitoring,
collecting, analyzing, and reporting information, and initiating, triggering, and
executing various management events including the execution of commands and
instructions to alter an identified operational condition or perform corrective
measures on a diagnosed fault, as well as the various other functions and operations
described herein. Data aggregation unit 735 implements data aggregation
operations, such as collecting and combining data, traffic, frames, packets, etc.,
which are associated with a source, such as a LAN device or a LAN node. Data de
aggregator 733 implements data de-aggregation operations, such as collecting and
splitting, dividing, separating, etc., data, traffic, frames, packets, and so forth from a
source which is destined for a target, such as a node or device within a connected
LAN.
         [00184] The secondary memory 718 may include a non-transitory machine
readable storage medium (or more specifically a non-transitory machine-accessible
storage medium) 731 on which is stored one or more sets of instructions (e.g.,
software 722) embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions
described herein. Software 722 may also reside, or alternatively reside within main
memory 704, and may further reside completely or at least partially within the
processor 702 during execution thereof by the computer system 700, the main
                                              55

memory 704 and the processor 702 also constituting machine-readable storage
media. The software 722 may further be transmitted or received over a network 720
via the network interface card 708.
         [00185] While the subject matter disclosed herein has been described by
way of example and in terms of the specific embodiments, it is to be understood that
the claimed embodiments are not limited to the explicitly enumerated embodiments
disclosed. To the contrary, the disclosure is intended to cover various modifications
and similar arrangements as would be apparent to those skilled in the art. Therefore,
the scope of the appended claims should be accorded the broadest interpretation so
as to encompass all such modifications and similar arrangements. It is to be
understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative, and not
restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art
upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosed
subject matter is therefore to be determined in reference to the appended claims,
along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.
                                           56

CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A system comprising:
a first Local Area Network (LAN) access device to establish a first LAN;
a second LAN access device to establish a second LAN operationally distinct from
         the first LAN;
a first Wide Area Network (WAN) backhaul connection to provide the first LAN
         access device with WAN connectivity;
a second WAN backhaul connection to provide the second LAN access device with
         WAN connectivity, wherein each of the first WAN backhaul and the second
         WAN backhaul are physically distinct;
a management device communicatively interfaced with each of the first LAN access
         device, the second LAN access device, the first WAN backhaul connection,
         and the second WAN backhaul connection; and
wherein the management device to route a first portion of traffic originating from
         the first LAN over the first WAN backhaul connection and to further route a
         second portion of the traffic originating from the first LAN over the second
         WAN backhaul connection.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the management device to route the first portion
         of traffic over the first WAN backhaul connection and to further route the
         second portion of the traffic over the second WAN backhaul connection
         comprises the management device to implement load-balancing for the first
         LAN.
3. The system of claim 2:
wherein the first LAN access device comprises a wireless LAN access device
         having a first transfer rate for the first LAN which is greater than a second
         transfer rate for the first WAN backhaul connection, the second transfer rate
         for the first WAN backhaul connection resulting in a bottleneck to the traffic
         originating from the first LAN access device directed to the first WAN
         backhaul connection.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising the management device to implement
         load-balancing for the second LAN, wherein the load-balancing for the
                                              57

        second LAN comprises the management device route a first portion of traffic
       originating from the second LAN over the second WAN backhaul
       connection and to further route a second portion of the traffic originating
       from the second LAN over the first WAN backhaul connection.
5. The system of claim 4:
wherein the management device to implement load-balancing for the first LAN
       comprises the management device to route the first portion of traffic over the
       first WAN backhaul connection at a rate which is less than the second
       transfer rate for the first WAN backhaul connection; and
wherein the management device to further route the second portion of the traffic
       over the second WAN backhaul connection, wherein the second portion of
       the traffic comprises a remaining portion of the traffic originating from the
       first LAN.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the management device to implement the load
       balancing for the first LAN comprises the management device to implement
        an aggregate transfer rate for WAN connectivity provided to the first LAN
        and the second LAN which is greater than the second transfer rate for the
       first WAN backhaul connection.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the management device to route the first portion
       of traffic over the first WAN backhaul connection and to further route the
        second portion of the traffic over the second WAN backhaul connection
       comprises the management device to allocate a portion of bandwidth
        associated with the second WAN backhaul connection to the first LAN
        access device based on a paid subscription tier or a service level tier
        associated with the first LAN access device.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the management device to route the first portion
       of traffic over the first WAN backhaul connection and to further route the
        second portion of the traffic over the second WAN backhaul connection
       comprises the management device to route control and management traffic
       over the first WAN backhaul connection and to further route payload traffic
       over the second WAN backhaul connection, wherein the payload traffic
       corresponds to the control and management traffic
                                           58

9. The system of claim 1, further comprising:
a wireless communications link between the first LAN access device and the second
        LAN access device; and
wherein the management device instructs the first LAN device to route or switch the
        second portion of traffic over the wireless communications link from the
        first LAN access device to the second LAN access device and onto the
        second WAN backhaul connection.
10. The system of claim 1:
wherein the first WAN backhaul connection to provide the first LAN access device
        with WAN connectivity comprises the first WAN backhaul connection to
        provide the first LAN access device with WAN connectivity via the first
        WAN backhaul connection to a Service Provider that provides one or more
        of data connectivity, voice connectivity, video connectivity, and mobile
        device connectivity to a plurality of subscribers; and
wherein the second WAN backhaul connection to provide the second LAN access
        device with WAN connectivity comprises the second WAN backhaul
        connection to provide the second LAN access device with WAN
        connectivity via the second WAN backhaul connection to the same Service
        Provider via a physically distinct communications link to the same Service
        Provider.
11. The system of claim 1:
wherein the first WAN backhaul connection to provide the first LAN access device
        with WAN connectivity comprises the first WAN backhaul connection to
        provide the first LAN access device with WAN connectivity via the first
        WAN backhaul connection to a first Service Provider that provides one or
        more of data connectivity, voice connectivity, video connectivity, and
        mobile device connectivity to a plurality of subscribers; and
wherein the second WAN backhaul connection to provide the second LAN access
        device with WAN connectivity comprises the second WAN backhaul
        connection to provide the second LAN access device with WAN
        connectivity via the second WAN backhaul connection to a second Service
        Provider separate and distinct from the first Service Provider.
                                           59

 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the management device to further:
collect a first information set about the first WAN backhaul connection;
collect a second information set about the first LAN;
collect a third information set about the second WAN backhaul connection;
collect a fourth information set about the second LAN;
jointly analyze at least a portion from each of the first, second, third, and fourth
         information sets collected;
identify an operational condition affecting the first and second WAN backhaul
         connections and further affecting the first and second LANs based on the
        jointly analyzed collected information sets; and
initiate a management event responsive to the operational condition being identified.
 13. The system of claim 12:
wherein the management device to initiate the management event responsive to the
         operational condition being identified comprises the management device to
         generate instructions specifying a configuration change to one or more of:
a channel allocation associated with a wireless based first LAN access device or a
         wireless based second LAN access device, or both, wherein the wireless
         based first LAN access device constitutes the first LAN access device and
         wherein the wireless based second LAN access device constitutes the second
         LAN access device;
a power allocation scheme for signals associated with the wireless based first LAN
         access device or the wireless based second LAN access device, or both;
STA (Station) to AP (Access Point) associations associated with the wireless based
         first LAN access device or the wireless based second LAN access device, or
         both;
beacon power characteristics associated with the wireless based first LAN access
         device or the wireless based second LAN access device, or both;
beacon intervals associated with the wireless based first LAN access device or the
         wireless based second LAN access device, or both;
transmission rates associated with the wireless based first LAN access device or the
         wireless based second LAN access device, or both;
beamforming characteristics of the wireless based first LAN access device or the
                                             60

        wireless based second LAN access device, or both;
Request to Send / Clear to Send (RTS/CTS) configuration associated with the
        wireless based first LAN access device or the wireless based second LAN
        access device, or both;
fragmentation configuration of the wireless based first LAN access device or the
        wireless based second LAN access device, or both;
wireless mode (e.g. IEEE 802.1 la/b/g/n) configuration of the wireless based first
        LAN access device or the wireless based second LAN access device, or
        both;
bandwidth utilized by the wireless based first LAN access device or the wireless
        based second LAN access device, or both;
IEEE 802.1 In compatible type channel bonding for the wireless based first LAN
        access device or the wireless based second LAN access device, or both;
frame aggregation of traffic from the wireless based first LAN access device or the
        wireless based second LAN access device, or both;
guard interval of the wireless based first LAN access device or the wireless based
        second LAN access device, or both;
antenna array configuration of the wireless based first LAN access device or to the
        wireless based second LAN access device, or both;
preamble length used by the wireless based first LAN access device or the wireless
        based second LAN access device, or both;
handoff technique used by the wireless based first LAN access device or the
        wireless based second LAN access device, or both;
power saving modes of the wireless based first LAN access device or the wireless
        based second LAN access device, or both; and
maximum number of retransmission attempts of the wireless based first LAN access
        device or the wireless based second LAN access device, or both.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the management event is selected from the
        group of management events comprising:
instructions to establish a direct communications link between the first LAN access
        device and the second LAN access device responsive to the joint analysis
        indicating an operational problem with the first WAN backhaul connection;
                                           61

         and
instructions to establish a direct communications link between a node operating
        within the first LAN, and the second LAN access device, responsive to the
        joint analysis indicating an operational problem with the first LAN access
        device.
15. The system of claim 12:
wherein the management device to jointly analyze the collected information sets
        comprises the management device to analyze bandwidth usage over time of
        the first LAN and bandwidth usage over time of the second LAN;
wherein the identified operational condition constitutes a traffic imbalance between
        the first LAN and the second LAN; and
wherein initiating the management event responsive to the operational condition
        being identified comprises the management device to allocate unused
        bandwidth associated with the first WAN backhaul connection to the second
        LAN access device or allocate unused bandwidth associated with the second
        WAN backhaul connection to the first LAN access device based on the
        identified traffic imbalance between the first LAN and the second LAN.
16. The system of claim 12:
wherein the second information set about the first LAN and the fourth information
         set about the second LAN each comprise information specific to a first
        communication layer of the first and second LANs; and
wherein the first information set about the first WAN backhaul connection and the
        third information set about the second WAN backhaul connection each
        comprise information specific to a second communication layer of the first
         and second WAN backhaul connections which is different than the first
        communication layer of the first and second LANs.
17. The system of claim 12:
wherein the second information set about the first LAN and the fourth information
         set about the second LAN each comprise neighborhood analysis relating to
        Internet connectivity provided to a plurality of other locations in a shared
        geographical area with the management device; and
wherein the management device to initiate the management event responsive to the
                                            62

        operational condition being identified comprises the management device to
        generate instructions to change a configuration of the first WAN backhaul
        connection or the second WAN backhaul connection, or both, based on the
        neighborhood analysis.
18. The system of claim 12:
wherein the first information set about the first WAN and the third information set
        about the second WAN each comprise neighborhood analysis relating to
        Internet connectivity provided to a plurality of other locations in a shared
        geographical area with the management device; and
wherein the management device to initiate the management event responsive to the
        operational condition being identified comprises the management device to
        generate instructions to change a configuration of the first LAN access
        device or the second LAN access device, or both, based on the neighborhood
        analysis.
19. The system of claim 12
wherein the management device to initiate the management event responsive to the
        operational condition being identified comprises the management device to
        generate instructions to modify the identified operational condition; and
wherein management device to communicate the generated instructions to one or
        more of a network element, a WAN device, and/or a LAN device
        communicatively interfaced with the management device; and
wherein the generated instructions are communicated via a protocol selected from
        the group of protocols comprising:
a TR-069 (Technical Report 069) compatible communications protocol;
a Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) communications
        protocol;
a Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) communications protocol;
an out-of-band telephone line protocol;
a Digital Subscriber Line Embedded Operations Channel (DSL EOC)
        communications protocol;
a cable control channel communications protocol;
a power line control channel communications protocol;
                                          63

a Command Line Interface (CLI) protocol; and
a Transaction Language 1 (TL1) communications protocol.
20. The system of claim 1, wherein the first WAN backhaul connection and the
        second WAN backhaul connection are each communicably interfaced with
        the management device via one of:
a wireless network connection;
a wired network connection;
a Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) network connection;
a power line network connection;
a Passive Optical Network (PON) based network connection;
a fiber optic based network connection; and
a cable based network connection.
21. The system of claim 1, wherein the management device comprises one of:
a Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) modem operating as a Customer Premises
        Equipment (CPE) device to communicatively interface a DSL based
        backhaul provided via the first WAN backhaul connection to the first LAN;
a cable modem operating to communicatively interface a cable network based
        backhaul provided via the first WAN backhaul connection to the first LAN;
a wireless modem operating to communicatively interface a wireless based backhaul
        provided via the first WAN backhaul connection to the first LAN;
a power line modem operating to communicatively interface a power line based
        backhaul provided via the first WAN backhaul connection to the first LAN;
an Optical Network Terminal (ONT) operating to communicatively interface a fiber
        optic based backhaul provided via the first WAN backhaul connection to the
        first LAN;
a router operating to communicatively interface the first WAN backhaul connection
        to the first LAN; and
a computing device remotely located from a WAN/LAN interface through which a
        communication channel related to the first WAN backhaul connection and
        the first LAN is connected, wherein the computing device provides remote
        monitoring and management functionality for the WAN/LAN interface.
22. The system of claim 1, wherein the management device to collect the first,
                                         64

        second, third, and fourth information sets comprises the management device
        to collect each of the information sets from an information source selected
        from the group of information sources comprising:
a Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) Customer Premises Equipment (CPE) modem;
an in-home power line device;
a Home Phoneline Network Alliance (HPNA) based device;
an in-home coax distribution device;
a G.hn compatible device;
an in-home metering communication device;
an in-home appliance communicatively interfaced with the LAN;
a wireless femtocell base station;
a wireless compatible base station;
a wireless mobile device repeater;
a wireless mobile device base station;
a set-top box (STB)/set-top unit (STU) customer electronics device;
an Internet Protocol (IP) enabled television;
an IP enabled media player;
an IP enabled gaming console;
an Ethernet gateway;
a computing device connected to the LAN;
an Ethernet connected computer peripheral device;
an Ethernet connected router;
an Ethernet connected wireless bridge;
an Ethernet connected network bridge; and
an Ethernet connected network switch.
23. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the first WAN backhaul connection and
        the second WAN backhaul connection are selected from the group of WAN
        backhaul connections comprising:
a broadband connection;
a DSL connection;
a cable connection;
a femtocell connection;
                                           65

a mobile connection;
a fiber connection;
a wireless connection; and
an access Broadband over Power Line (BPL) connection.
24. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the first LAN and the second LAN
        comprise a plurality of interconnected nodes; and
wherein each of the plurality of interconnected nodes communicate via at least one
        of:
an Ethernet based network connection;
a wireless based network connection;
an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.11 standards based
        network connection;
an 802.11a, 802.1lb, 802.11g, and/or 802.11n WiFi compatible wireless network
        connection;
a femto network connection transmitting via a mobile cellular compatible protocol
        including at least one of a third generation (3G) compatible protocol, a
        fourth generation (4G) compatible protocol, and a Long Term Evolution
         (LTE) compatible protocol;
a power line connection;
a telephone system connection;
a Plain Old Telephone Service (POTS) connection;
a G.hn (ITU-T standardized unified high-speed wire-line based home networking)
        connection; and
a Coax cable connection.
25. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the first LAN access device and the
         second LAN access device are selected from the group of devices
        comprising:
a base station;
an access point;
a modem;
a router;
a gateway;
                                            66

a Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) Customer Premises Equipment (CPE) modem;
an in-home power line device;
a Home Phoneline Network Alliance (HPNA) based device;
an in-home coax distribution device;
a G.hn compatible device;
an in-home metering communication device;
an in-home appliance communicatively interfaced with the LAN;
a wireless femtocell base station;
a wireless compatible base station;
a wireless mobile device repeater;
a wireless mobile device base station;
a set-top box (STB)/set-top unit (STU) customer electronics device;
an Internet Protocol (IP) enabled television;
an IP enabled media player;
an IP enabled gaming console;
an Ethernet gateway;
a computing device connected to the LAN;
an Ethernet connected computer peripheral device;
an Ethernet connected router;
an Ethernet connected wireless bridge;
an Ethernet connected network bridge; and
an Ethernet connected network switch.
26. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the first LAN and the second LAN
        comprise a plurality of interconnected nodes; and
wherein each of the plurality of interconnected nodes are selected from the group of
        nodes comprising:
a computer with LAN connectivity;
a notebook with LAN connectivity;
a mobile phone with LAN connectivity;
a game console with LAN connectivity; and
an electronic computing machine with LAN connectivity.
27. A method comprising:
                                           67

establishing a first Local Area Network (LAN) via a first access device;
establishing a second LAN via a second access device, wherein the second LAN is
        operationally distinct from the first LAN;
providing the first LAN access device with WAN connectivity via a first Wide Area
        Network (WAN) backhaul connection;
providing the second LAN access device with WAN connectivity via a second
        WAN backhaul connection, wherein each of the first WAN backhaul and the
        second WAN backhaul are physically distinct;
communicatively interfacing a management device with each of the first LAN
        access device, the second LAN access device, the first WAN backhaul
        connection, and the second WAN backhaul connection; and
wherein the management device routes a first portion of traffic originating from the
        first LAN over the first WAN backhaul connection and further routes a
        second portion of the traffic originating from the first LAN over the second
        WAN backhaul connection.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the management device routing the first
        portion of traffic over the first WAN backhaul connection and routing the
        second portion of the traffic over the second WAN backhaul connection
        comprises the management device implementing load-balancing for the first
        LAN.
29. The method of claim 27:
wherein the first LAN access device comprises a wireless LAN access device
        having a first transfer rate for the first LAN which is greater than a second
        transfer rate for the first WAN backhaul connection, the second transfer rate
        for the first WAN backhaul connection resulting in a bottleneck to the traffic
        originating from the first LAN access device directed to the first WAN
        backhaul connection.
30. The method of claim 27, further comprising:
implementing, via the management device, load-balancing for the second LAN,
        wherein implementing load-balancing for the second LAN comprises the
        management device routing a first portion of traffic originating from the
        second LAN over the second WAN backhaul connection and routing a
                                             68

          second portion of the traffic originating from the second LAN over the first
         WAN backhaul connection.
31. The method of claim 30, further comprising:
implementing load-balancing for the first LAN by routing the first portion of traffic
         over the first WAN backhaul connection at a rate which is less than the
          second transfer rate for the first WAN backhaul connection and routing the
          second portion of the traffic over the second WAN backhaul connection,
         wherein the second portion of the traffic comprises a remaining portion of
         the traffic originating from the first LAN.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein implementing load-balancing for the first LAN
         comprises the management device to implement a transfer rate for WAN
         connectivity provided to the first LAN and the second LAN which is greater
         than the second transfer rate for the first WAN backhaul connection.
33. The method of claim 27, further comprising:
a wireless communications link between the first LAN access device and the second
         LAN access device; and
instructing the first LAN device to route or switch the second portion of traffic over
         the wireless communications link from the first LAN access device to the
          second LAN access device and onto the second WAN backhaul connection.
34. The method of claim 27, further comprising:
collecting a first information set about the first WAN backhaul connection;
collecting a second information set about the first LAN;
collecting a third information set about the second WAN backhaul connection;
collecting a fourth information set about the second LAN;
jointly analyzing at least a portion from each of the first, second, third, and fourth
         information sets collected;
identifying an operational condition affecting the first and second WAN backhaul
         connections and further affecting the first and second LANs based on the
         jointly analyzed collected information sets; and
initiating a management event responsive to the operational condition being
         identified.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the management event is selected from the
                                              69

         group of management events comprising:
instructions to establish a direct communications link between the first LAN access
         device and the second LAN access device responsive to the joint analysis
         indicating an operational problem with the first WAN backhaul connection;
          and
instructions to establish a direct communications link between a node operating
         within the first LAN, and the second LAN access device, responsive to the
         joint analysis indicating an operational problem with the first LAN access
         device.
36. The method of claim 34:
wherein jointly analyzing the collected information sets comprises the management
         device analyzing bandwidth usage over time of the first LAN and bandwidth
         usage over time of the second LAN;
wherein the identified operational condition constitutes a traffic imbalance between
         the first LAN and the second LAN; and
wherein initiating the management event responsive to the operational condition
         being identified comprises allocating unused bandwidth associated with the
         first WAN backhaul connection to the second LAN access device or
          allocating unused bandwidth associated with the second WAN backhaul
         connection to the first LAN access device based on the identified traffic
         imbalance between the first LAN and the second LAN.
37. A management device comprising:
a first interface to a first Local Area Network (LAN) access device that establishes a
         first LAN;
a second interface to a second LAN access device that establishes a second LAN
         which is operationally distinct from the first LAN;
a third interface to a first Wide Area Network (WAN) backhaul connection that
         provides the first LAN access device with WAN connectivity;
a fourth interface to a second WAN backhaul connection that provides the second
         LAN access device with WAN connectivity, wherein each of the first WAN
         backhaul and the second WAN backhaul are physically distinct;
wherein the management to device communicatively interface with each of the first
                                             70

         LAN access device, the second LAN access device, the first WAN backhaul
         connection, and the second WAN backhaul connection; and
wherein the management device to further route a first portion of traffic originating
         from the first LAN over the first WAN backhaul connection and route a
         second portion of the traffic originating from the first LAN over the second
         WAN backhaul connection.
38. A system comprising:
a first Local Area Network (LAN) access device to establish a first LAN;
a second LAN access device to establish a second LAN operationally distinct from
         the first LAN;
a first Wide Area Network (WAN) backhaul connection to provide the first LAN
         access device with WAN connectivity;
a second WAN backhaul connection to provide the second LAN access device with
         WAN connectivity, wherein each of the first WAN backhaul and the second
         WAN backhaul are physically distinct;
a management device communicatively interfaced with each of the first LAN access
         device, the second LAN access device, the first WAN backhaul connection,
         and the second WAN backhaul connection; and
wherein the management device, responsive to a failure event, to re-route traffic
         associated with the first LAN onto the second WAN backhaul connection or
         re-route traffic associated with the second LAN onto the first WAN
         backhaul connection.
39. The system of claim 38, wherein the management device communicatively
         interfaced with each of the first LAN access device, the second LAN access
         device, the first WAN backhaul connection, and the second WAN backhaul
         connection comprises:
the management device implemented within the first LAN access device and
         communicatively interfaced with the LAN access device via an internal
         communications bus of the first LAN access device; and
wherein the management device is communicatively interfaced with each of the
         second LAN access device, the first WAN backhaul connection, and the
         second WAN backhaul connection via one or more communication paths
                                             71

         external to the first LAN access device.
40. The system of claim 38, wherein the management device communicatively
         interfaced with each of the first LAN access device, the second LAN access
         device, the first WAN backhaul connection, and the second WAN backhaul
         connection comprises:
the management device implemented within a WAN access device and
         communicatively coupled with the first WAN backhaul connection via an
         internal communications bus of the first WAN access device; and
wherein the management device is communicatively interfaced with each of the first
         LAN access device, the second LAN access device, and the second WAN
         backhaul connection via one or more communication paths external to the
         first WAN access device.
41. The system of claim 38, wherein the management device communicatively
         interfaced with each of the first LAN access device, the second LAN access
         device, the first WAN backhaul connection, and the second WAN backhaul
         connection comprises:
the management device implemented as an externally separate and physically
         distinct device from a first WAN access device communicatively coupled
         with the first WAN backhaul connection, from a second WAN access device
         communicatively coupled with the second WAN backhaul connection, from
         the first LAN access device, and from the second LAN access device; and
wherein the management device is communicatively interfaced with each of the first
         WAN access device, the second WAN access device, the first LAN access
         device, and the second LAN access device via one or more communication
         paths external to the externally separate and physically distinct
         implementation of the management device.
42. The system of claim 38, further comprising:
a traffic aggregation unit which operates externally separate and physically distinct
         from each of the first LAN access device and the second LAN access device;
wherein the traffic aggregation unit to form a logically bonded WAN interface over
         the first WAN backhaul and the second WAN backhaul; and
wherein the management device is implemented within the traffic aggregation unit
                                            72

        and is communicatively interfaced with each of the first LAN access device,
        the second LAN access device, the first WAN backhaul connection, and the
        second WAN backhaul connection via one or more communication paths
        external to the traffic aggregation unit.
43. The system of claim 38, wherein the management device operates in accordance
        with Synchronous optical networking (SONET) or synchronous digital
        hierarchy (SDH) multiplexing protocols; and
wherein the management device, responsive to a failure event, to re-route the traffic
        comprises the management device to perform a SONET or SDH compatible
        rapid re-route function or via an Ethernet Resilient Packet Ring (RPR)
        implementation.
44. The system of claim 38, wherein the management device, responsive to a failure
        event, to re-route the traffic comprises the management device to:
perform a first traffic re-route operation responsive to a hard failure event
        characterized by a total loss of connectivity for one of the first LAN access
        device and the second LAN access device with the corresponding first or
        second WAN backhaul connection;
perform a second traffic re-route operation responsive to a soft failure event
        characterized by degraded connectivity as determined by a threshold for one
        of the first LAN access device and the second LAN access device with the
        corresponding first or second WAN backhaul connection; and
wherein the first traffic re-route operation is different than the second traffic re-route
        operation.
45. A method comprising:
establishing a first Local Area Network (LAN) via a first access device;
establishing a second LAN via a second access device, wherein the second LAN is
        operationally distinct from the first LAN;
providing the first LAN access device with WAN connectivity via a first Wide Area
        Network (WAN) backhaul connection;
providing the second LAN access device with WAN connectivity via a second
        WAN backhaul connection, wherein each of the first WAN backhaul and the
        second WAN backhaul are physically distinct;
                                            73

communicatively interfacing a management device with each of the first LAN
          access device, the second LAN access device, the first WAN backhaul
         connection, and the second WAN backhaul connection; and
wherein the management device responsive to a failure event re-routes traffic
          associated with the first LAN onto the second WAN backhaul connection or
         re-routes traffic associated with the second LAN onto the first WAN
         backhaul connection.
46. A management device comprising:
a first interface to a first Local Area Network (LAN) access device that establishes a
         first LAN;
a second interface to a second LAN access device that establishes a second LAN
         which is operationally distinct from the first LAN;
a third interface to a first Wide Area Network (WAN) backhaul connection that
         provides the first LAN access device with WAN connectivity;
a fourth interface to a second WAN backhaul connection that provides the second
         LAN access device with WAN connectivity, wherein each of the first WAN
         backhaul and the second WAN backhaul are physically distinct;
wherein the management to device communicatively interface with each of the first
         LAN access device, the second LAN access device, the first WAN backhaul
         connection, and the second WAN backhaul connection; and
wherein the management device responsive to a failure event re-routes traffic
          associated with the first LAN onto the second WAN backhaul connection or
         re-routes traffic associated with the second LAN onto the first WAN
         backhaul connection.
                                             74

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
