                                               ABSTRACT
             An object of the present invention is to provide high-quality 1,4BG capable of
   working out to a raw material of PBT with good color tone, by efficiently removing and
 5 refining impurities mixed when producing a biomass-derived 1,4BG on an industrial scale.
   The present invention relates to a production method of refined 1,4BG, where a crude
   1,4BG-containing solution is obtained from refined raw material 1,4BG obtained by removing
   bacterial cells, salt contents and water from the fermentation culture medium, through a step of
   removing high-boiling-point components and/or low-boiling-point components by distillation
10 and/or a step of converting an unsaturated compound to a hydride and the target product is
   obtained as a side stream in a further distillation step.

                                                     1
                                             DESCRIPTION
   Title of Invention:
   Production Method for 1,4-Butanediol
 5
   Technical Field
   [0001]
             The present invention relates to a production method for 1,4-butanediol.    More
   specifically, the present invention relates to a method for producing high-purity refined
10 1,4-butanediol by refining crude 1,4-butanediol obtained from biomass resources.
   Background Art
   [0002]
             1,4-Butanediol (hereinafter, sometimes simply referred to as "1,4BG") is a very useful
15 substance used as a raw material of various solvents or derivatives.
             Conventionally, a variety of methods for industrially producing 1,4BG by using
   petroleum or other fossil fuels as a raw material are known.    For example, there are a method
   where diacetoxybutene is obtained as an intermediate by an acetoxylation reaction using acetic
   acid and oxygen and using butadiene as a raw material and the diacetoxybutene is
20 hydrogenated and hydrolyzed to produce 1,4BG; a method where maleic acid, succinic acid,
   maleic anhydride and/or fumaric acid are used as raw materials and these materials are
   hydrogenated to obtain a 1,4BG-containing crude hydrogenation product; and a method where
   butynediol obtained using acetylene as a raw material by contacting it with an aqueous
   formaldehyde solution is hydrogenated to produce 1,4BG.
25 [0003]
             Recently, a method for producing a biomass-derived 1,4BG by using a biomass
   resource as a raw material has also been developed, in addition to the conventional method of
   producing 1,4BG by using petroleum or other fossil fuels as a raw material.     For example,
   there are a method where succinic acid obtained by the fermentation of a sugar is
30 hydrogenated to obtain 1,4BG (Patent Document 1), and a method where 1,4BG is directly
   obtained by fermenting a biomass resource such as sugar (Patent Document 2).
   [0004]
             When a product comparable to a petrochemical product produced from a fossil fuel

                                                     2
   such as petroleum is produced from a biomass resource, a refining process on an industrial
   scale (large-scale process) is necessary for stably maintaining the production volume or
   quality.   For example, in the case where the biomass resource used as a raw material is a
   sugar or the like, the target product is obtained by the fermentation thereof with bacteria, but
 5 for maintaining the quality equivalent to that of a product obtained by the conventional
   production process using a fossil fuel such as petroleum, a refinement technique capable of
   highly removing impurities contained in the raw material or various byproducts generated in
   the course of fermentation is required.
   [0005]
10           As an example of such a refinement technique, a refinement method regarding
   biomass-derived 1,3-propanediol is described in Patent Document 3.
             Also, as a method for refining biomass-derived 1,4BG, a general refinement method
   is described in Patent Document 4.
15 Background Art Document
   Patent Document
   [0006]
             Patent Document 1: JP-A-2009-077719 (the term "JP-A"as used herein means an
   "unexamined published Japanese patent application")
20           Patent Document 2: JP-T-2010-521182 (the term "JP-T" as used herein means a
   published Japanese translation of a PCT patent application)
             Patent Document 3: JP-T-2007-502325
             Patent Document 4: U.S. Patent Application Publication 2011/0003355
25 Summary of Invention
   Problem that Invention is to Solve
   [0007]
             However, Patent Document 4 lacks, for example, a specific reference to detailed
   refinement conditions or substances responsible for deterioration of quality and is silent on the
30 method for removing such substances, and the method can be hardly applied to a large-scale
   process in industry.
   [0008]
             Also, at the time of production of polybutylene terephthalate (hereinafter, sometimes

                                                      3
   simply referred to as "PBT") that is one of principal uses of 1,4BG, when biomass-derived
   1,4BG is used as a raw material for the PBT production, impurities derived from the raw
   material or various impurities generated in the course of fermenting the biomass resource such
   as sugar may be mixed, as a result, the color tone may be deteriorated, compared with PBT
 5 starting from the conventional 1,4BG derived from a fossil fuel such as petroleum.
   [0009]
             Under these circumstances, the present invention has been made, and an object of the
   present invention is to provide a method for producing a high-quality biomass-derived 1,4BG
   capable of working out to a raw material of PBT with good color tone, where various
10 impurities mixed when producing biomass-derived 1,4BG on an industrial scale can be
   efficiently removed and refined.
   Means for Solving Problem
   [0010]
15           The present inventors have made intensive studies to attain the above-described
   object.   As a result, it has been found that in a distillation column used at the refinement step
   when producing biomass-derived 1,4BG on an industrial scale, fouling proceeds due to
   precipitation of a solid matter and deterioration in the quality of 1,4BG proceeds due to
   production of tetrahydrofuran (hereinafter, sometimes simply referred to as "THF") and water;
20 the quality deterioration above can be overcome by employing a refinement process that
   passes through a specific refinement step; and when producing PBT by using biomass-derived
   1,4BG, the concentration of a cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or
   6 contained in the raw material 1,4BG is correlated with coloring of PBT and by removing the
   cyclic carbonyl compound in the refinement step of biomass-derived 1,4BG and controlling
25 the concentration of the compound to fall in a specific range, the color tone of PBT obtained
   can be improved.      The present invention has been accomplished based on these findings.
   [0011]
             That is, the gist of the present invention resides in the following <1> to <15>.
   <1>     A method for producing 1,4-butanediol, comprising biologically producing
30 1,4-butanediol in a culture medium for fermentation of an organism capable of producing
   1,4-butanediol, at least partially removing each of a bacterial cell, a salt content and water
   from said fermentation culture medium to obtain a refined raw material
   1,4-butanediol-containing solution, obtaining therefrom a crude 1,4-butanediol-containing

                                                      4
   solution through any one or more steps of the following steps (a) to (c), refining said crude
   1,4-butanediol-containing solution through the following step (d) to obtain refined
   1,4-butanediol:
   Step (a):
 5            a step of distilling said refined raw material 1,4-butanediol-containing solution in a
   distillation column to remove components which are contained in said refined raw material
   1,4-butanediol-containing solution and higher in the boiling point than 1,4-butanediol;
   Step (b):
              a step of distilling said refined raw material 1,4-butanediol-containing solution in a
10 distillation column to remove components which are contained in said refined raw material
   1,4-butanediol-containing solution and lighter in the boiling point than 1,4-butanediol;
   Step (c):
              a hydrogenation step of at least partially converting unsaturated compounds contained
   in said refined raw material 1,4-butanediol-containing solution into a hydride; and
15 Step (d):
              a step of distilling said crude 1,4-butanediol-containing solution in a distillation
   column and withdrawing refined 1,4-butanediol from a side stream.
   <2>     The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as described in the above <1>, wherein the
   concentration of a cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 in the
20 refined 1,4-butanediol obtained in said step (d) is 12 ppm by mass or less.
   <3>     The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as described in the above <1> or <2>, which
   is a method for producing 1,4-butanediol through at least the step (a) out of said steps (a) to (c)
   and further passes through the following step (e):
   Step (e):
25            a step of distilling components higher in the boiling point than 1,4-butanediol, which
   are separated in said step (a), in a distillation column and thereby separating and recovering
   1,4-butanediol.
   <4>     The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as described in any one of the above <1> to
   <3>, which is a method for producing 1,4-butanediol through at least the step (c) out of said
30 steps (a) to (c), wherein the refined raw material 1,4-butanediol-containing solution after
   passing through the following step (f) is introduced into said step (c):
   Step (f):
              a step of brining said refined raw material 1,4-butanediol-containing solution into

                                                     5
   contact with a base.
   <5>     The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as described in any one of the above <1> to
   <4>, wherein the water concentration in the refined raw material 1,4-butanediol-containing
   solution immediately before passing through any one step of said steps (a) to (c) or through the
 5 step (f) is from 0.01 to 20 mass% and the pH thereof is 5 or more.
   <6>     The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as described in any one of the above <1> to
   <5>, wherein in the hydrogenation step of said step (c), hydrogenation is performed using a
   solid catalyst having a nickel-containing metal supported on at least either kieselguhr or silica.
   <7>     The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as described in any one of the above <4> to
10 <6>, wherein the base in said step (f) is a solid base.
   <8>     The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as described in any one of the above <1> to
   <7>, wherein the components lighter in the boiling point than 1,4-butanediol in said step (b)
   contain 1-acetoxy-4-hydroxybutane and the 1 -acetoxy-4-hydroxybutane concentration in the
   crude 1,4-butanediol-containing solution after the removal of said components lighter in the
15 boiling point than 1,4-butanediol is from 0.1 to 50 ppm by mass.
   <9>     The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as described in any one of the above <1> to
   <8>, wherein the bottom temperature of the distillation column in said step (b) is from 120 to
   2000 C.
   <10>      The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as described in any one of the above <1> to
20 <9>, wherein the bottom temperature of the distillation column in said step (a) is from 150 to
   2000 C.
   <11>      The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as described in any one of the above <1> to
   <10>, wherein the components higher in the boiling point than 1,4-butanediol in said step (a)
   contain 2-pyrrolidone and the 2-pyrrolidone concentration in the crude
25 1,4-butanediol-containing solution after the removal of said components higher in the boiling
   point than 1,4-butanediol is 20 ppm by mass or less.
   <12>      The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as described in any one of the above <1> to
   <11>, wherein a heating source of the distillation column in said step (a) contacts substantially
   only with the bottom liquid but involves no contact with a gas-phase part.
30 <13>      The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as described in any one of the above <1> to
   <12>, wherein the gamma-butyrolactone concentration in the overhead distillate of the
   distillation column in said step (d) is higher than the gamma-butyrolactone concentration in
   the refined 1,4-butanediol withdrawn from a side stream.

                                                      6
   <14>     The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as described in any one of the above <1> to
   <13>, comprising a step of controlling the carbonyl valence in the refined raw material
   1,4-butanediol-containing solution immediately before passing through any one step of said
   steps (a) to (c) or through the step (f), to be 2.5 mgKOH/g or less.
 5 <15>     The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as described in any one of the above <1> to
   <14>, wherein in at least one step of said steps (b) to (d), the carbonyl valence in said refined
   raw material 1,4-butanediol-containing solution is reduced.
   Advantageous Effects of Invention
10 [0012]
             According to the present invention, high-quality 1,4BG capable of working out to a
   raw material of PBT with good color tone can be produced, by efficiently removing and
   refining impurities mixed when producing a biomass-derived 1,4BG on an industrial scale.
15 Brief Description of Drawings
   [0013]
             [Fig. 1]   Fig. 1 is a systematic diagram of steps (a) to (f) illustrating a preferred
   embodiment of the present invention.
             [Fig. 2]   Fig. 2 is a graph showing the relationship between the total C5 ,C6 cyclic
20 carbonyl concentration in 1,4BG and the color tone b value of PBT obtained using the 1,4BG.
             [Fig. 3]   Fig. 3 is a graph showing the relationship between the total C5 ,C6 cyclic
   carbonyl concentration in 1,4BG and the polycondensation rate when producing PBT by using
   the 1,4BG.
25 Mode for Carrying Out Invention
   [0014]
             The present invention is described in detail below, but the respective constituent
   requirements described below are a representative example of the embodiment of the present
   invention, and the present invention is not limited to them.
30           Incidentally, a numerical range expressed by using the expression "(numerical value)
   to (numerical value)" in the description of the present invention means a range which includes
   the numerical values before and after "to" as a lower limit and an upper limit, respectively.
   In addition, a lower limit or an upper limit in the description of the present invention means a

                                                      7
   range which includes a numerical value of the lower limit or the upper limit.
             Incidentally, in the description of the present invention, the expression "wt%", "ppm
   by weight" and "weight ratio" have the same meanings as massss%, "ppm by mass" and "mass
   ratio", respectively.   Also, when simply referred to as "ppm", this indicates "ppm by weight".
 5 [0015]
             The purification process in the production method for 1,4-BG of the present invention
   is preferably applied to a biomass-derived 1,4BG-containing composition.
   [0016]
             The biomass material includes a material in which light energy of the sun is converted
10 into a form of starch, cellulose or the like by photonic synthesis of a plant and stored, the body
   of an animal which grows by eating plants, a product obtained by processing a plant body or
   an animal body and the like.
             Specifically, wood, paddy straw, rice bran, old rice, corn, sugar cane, cassava, sago
   palm, soy pulp, corncobs, tapioca refuse, bagasse, vegetable oil refuse, potatoes, buckwheat,
15 soybeans, fat, old papers, papermaking residues, fishery product residues, excreta from
   domestic animals, sewage sludge, food wastes and the like are mentioned.         Among them,
   plant materials such as wood, paddy straw, old rice, corn, sugar cane, cassava, sago palm, soy
   pulp, corncobs, tapioca refuse, bagasse, vegetable oil refuse, potatoes, buckwheat, soybeans,
   fat, old papers and papermaking residues are preferable.      More preferable materials are wood,
20 paddy straw, old rice, corn, sugar cane, cassava, sago palm, potatoes, fat, old papers,
   papermaking residues and the like and most preferable materials are corn, sugar cane, cassava
   and sago palm.
   [0017]
             The biomass materials generally contain nitrogen atom, many alkali metals and
25 alkaline earth metals such as Na, K, Mg and Ca.
   [0018]
             These biomass materials are induced to carbon sources through a known
   pretreatment/saccharification step and the like, such as chemical treatment using an acid, an
   alkali or the like, biological treatment using a microorganism and physical treatment, although
30 the method is not particularly limited.    The step often includes a step for reducing the size
   through pretreatment for chipping, shaving or mashing the biomass material, and if necessary,
   further includes a pulverization step using a grinder or a mill.
             The biomass material which has been thus reduced in size is generally induced to a

                                                      8
   carbon source through a further pretreatment/saccharification step.        Examples of the specific
   method are: chemical methods such as acid treatment using a strong acid such as sulfuric acid,
   nitric acid, hydrochloric acid or phosphoric acid, alkali treatment, ammonia freezing steam
   blasting method, extraction with a solvent, supercritical fluid treatment and treatment with an
 5 oxidizing agent; physical methods such as pulverization, steam blasting method, microwave
   treatment and irradiation with electron beams; and biological treatment such as hydrolysis by
   treatment with a microorganism or an enzyme.
   [0019]
             In general, as the carbon source induced from the above biomass materials, following
10 fermentative carbohydrates and the like are used: hexoses such as glucose, mannose,
   galactose, fructose, sorbose and tagatose; pentoses such as arabinose, xylose, ribose, xylulose
   and ribulose; di- and polysaccharides such as pentosan, saccharose, starch and cellulose; fat
   such as butyric acid, caproic acid, caprylic acid, capric acid, lauric acid, myristic acid, palmitic
   acid, palmitoleic acid, stearic acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid, linolenic acid, monocutinic acid,
15 arachidic acid, eicosenoic acid, arachidonic acid, behenic acid, erucic acid, docosapentaenoic
   acid, docosahexaenoic acid, lignoceric acid and selacholeic acid; and polyalcohols such as
   glycerin, mannitol, xylitol and ribitol.    Among them, hexoses, pentoses or disaccharides such
   as glucose, fructose, xylose or saccharose is preferable and glucose is particularly preferable.
   Cellulose, which is the main component of papers, is also preferable as the plant-derived
20 carbon source in a broader sense.
   [0020]
             In the method of producing 1,4BG directly from a carbon source such as glucose by a
   fermentation process, transgenic E. coli, a coryneform bacterium, a yeast, etc. can be used.
   For example, 1,4BG can be biologically produced in a culture medium for organism
25 fermentation by the method described in JP-T-2010-521182.
             In addition, a composition containing 1,4BG that is thus biologically produced in a
   culture medium for fermentation of an organism capable of producing 1,4BG can be obtained,
   for example, by entirely or at least partially separating and removing bacterial cells and salt
   contents by any one separation means or two or more separation means of filtration,
30 centrifugal separation and an ion-exchange resin based on U.S. Patent Application Publication
   No. 2011/0003355, and furthermore, a refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution can be
   obtained from the 1,4BG-containing composition above by at least partially removing water in
   the composition.

                                                       9
              In the present invention, the "1,4BG-containing composition" indicates a composition
   after removing bacterial cells and salt contents from the fermentation culture medium in which
   1,4BG is produced, and the residue after removing water from the 1,4BG-containing
   composition above is referred to as "refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution".
 5 [0021]
              The method for removing water contained in the 1,4BG-containing composition after
   separating and removing bacterial cells and salt contents from the fermentation culture
   medium is not particularly limited, but these are preferably removed by continuous or batch
   distillation.   As the distillation column used for the distillation/removal of water, a distillation
10 column having from 2 to 100 plates as the theoretical plate is preferably used, and the number
   of theoretical plates is more preferably from 5 to 50.
              The reflux ratio is arbitrary but is preferably from 0.01 to 100.  The reflux ratio is
   more preferably from 0.1 to 50, still more preferably from 0.2 to 20.
   [0022]
15            The reboiler as the heating region of a distillation column is not particularly limited
   but is preferably a forced circulation reboiler or a falling film reboiler.  In particular, the
   residence time in the contact region with a heating source at the bottom is preferably shorter so
   as to avoid fouling, and a structure where the heating source is not put into contact with a
   gas-phase part or a structure where the amount of contact is minimized, is preferred.
20            The top pressure of the distillation column is, in terms of absolute pressure,
   preferably from 1 to 200 kPa, more preferably from 2 to 100 kPa, still more preferably from 5
   to 50 kPa.     As the top pressure is lower, the temperature in the column can be reduced, and
   production of new impurities from biomass-derived components such as amino acid and sugar
   can be thereby prevented, but if the top pressure is too low, cooling becomes inefficient.
25 Also, as the top pressure is higher, the volume of the column itself can be reduced, but if the
   top pressure is too high, the bottom temperature rises and impurities are likely to be produced.
   [0023]
              The temperature in the distillation column is determined by the composition and
   pressure, but the temperature in the bottom where the temperature becomes highest is
30 preferably from 120 to 200'C, more preferably from 140 to 190'C, still more preferably from
   150 to 180'C.      By setting the bottom temperature of the distillation column to be higher than
   the lower limit above, the top temperature can also be high and the cooling cost can be kept
   low.    Also, by setting the bottom temperature to be lower than the upper limit above,

                                                       10
   impurities due to a side reaction of biomass-derived components can be decreased.
              The top temperature is preferably from 40 to 100 0C, more preferably from 40 to
   80'C, still more preferably from 40 to 60'C.        By setting the top temperature to be not less
   than the lower limit above, the cooling cost can be kept low, and by setting the top temperature
 5 to be not more than the upper limit above, a side reaction in the column can be suppressed.
   [0024]
              The preferable overhead distribution ratio (=(flow rate of overhead distillate/flow rate
   of feed)x 100) in the distillation column varies depending on the water concentration in the
   1,4BG-containing composition but is preferably from 2 to 40%, more preferably from 5 to
10 30%, still more preferably from 8 to 25%.        If the overhead distribution ratio is too high, the
   loss of 1,4BG is increased, whereas if the overhead distribution ratio is too small, a fairly large
   amount of water and light-boiling acid are carried over into the 1,4BG-containing solution fed
   to the next step, that is, the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution.
   [0025]
15            In this distillation column, the pH in the bottom is preferably controlled to be from 4
   to 9, more preferably from 5 to 8.      If the pH is too low, by-production of THF is increased in
   the distillation column and the operation becomes difficult.       If the pH is too high, a side
   reaction such as occurrence of high boiling is promoted.
   [0026]
20            The bottom product obtained from the distillation column of removing water, that is,
   the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution, is fed to the next refinement step.         A
   distillate containing water and a large number of light-boiling-point components may be
   discarded as it is but may be used for washing, etc. of other steps.
   [0027]
25            The refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution obtained by removing water
   from the 1,4BG-containing composition by such a distillation operation is withdrawn from the
   bottom of the distillation column above.        This refined raw material 1,4BG-containing
   solution contains 1,4BG and components higher or lighter in the boiling point than 1,4BG.
              The components except for 1,4BG, contained in the refined raw material
30 1,4BG-containing solution, are gamma-butyrolactone, 1-acetoxy-4-hydroxybutane,
   tetrahydrofuran, acetic acid, butanol, butylaldehyde, butyric acid, 1,3-butanediol,
   2,3-butanediol, 2-hydroxytetrahydrofuran, 2-(4-hydroxybutyloxy)tetrahydrofuran, water,
   nitrogen-containing components derived from amino acid and protein, sugar, and a

                                                     11
   decomposition product thereof.
   [0028]
             This refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution can be converted by the
   refinement of the present invention to a high-quality biomass-derived 1,4BG capable of
 5 working out to a raw material of PBT with good color tone, but in order to obtain 1,4BG
   working out to a raw material of PBT with good color tone, it is preferable to reduce the
   carbonyl valence of the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution.
             The value of the carbonyl valence of the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing
   solution is preferably 2.5 mgKOH/g or less, more preferably 2.0 mgKOH/g or less, still more
10 preferably 1.5 mgKOH/g or less.       As the value of carbonyl valence is lower, the cost of
   refinement of the present invention can be reduced and this is economically preferred.
             The refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution here indicates the refined raw
   material 1,4BG immediately before passing through the steps (a) to (c) and in the case of
   passing through the later-described step (f), indicates the refined raw material 1,4BG
15 immediately before passing through the step (f).
   [0029]
             The method for reducing the carbonyl valence in the refined raw material
   1,4BG-containing solution is not particularly limited but includes, for example, a method
   where the carbonyl valence is reduced in the process of biologically producing 1,4BG in the
20 culture medium for organism fermentation, and a method where the carbonyl component is
   decreased together with water in the process of removing water contained in the
   1,4BG-containing composition after separating and removing bacterial cells and salt contents
   from the fermentation culture medium.       In the present invention, the carbonyl valence in the
   refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution is preferably reduced in at least one step of the
25 later-described steps (b) to (d).
             The method for measuring the carbonyl valence is as described in Examples later.
   [0030]
             The water concentration in the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution is not
   particularly limited, but usually, the upper limit is 20 mass% or less, preferably 18 mass% or
30 less, more preferably 15 mass% or less.      On the other hand, the lower limit is usually 0.01
   mass% or more, preferably 0.02 mass% or more, more preferably 0.03 mass% or more.             If
   the water concentration in the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution is too high, the
   temperature for steam recovery from the top region in a later step lowers and becomes

                                                      12
   improper.      Also, if the water concentration in the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing
   solution is excessively reduced, the load of distillation for the removal of water is
   disadvantageously increased.
              The refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution here indicates the refined raw
 5 material 1,4BG immediately before passing through the steps (a) to (c) and in the case of
   passing through the later-described step (f), indicates the refined raw material 1,4BG
   immediately before passing through the step (f).
              Incidentally, the water concentration in the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing
   solution introduced into the later-described step (a) is preferably 1.5 mass% or less, more
10 preferably 1 mass% or less, still more preferably 0.5 mass% or less, yet still more preferably
   0.2 mass% or less.       Therefore, when the water concentration after removing water from the
   1,4BG-containing composition is more than the upper limit above, it is preferable to reduce
   the water concentration by further repeating the same distillation as above.
   [0031]
15            The pH of the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution is preferably 5 or
   more, more preferably from 5.0 to 9.0, still more preferably from 5.2 to 8.0.      A low pH of the
   refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution means that the pH of the bottom liquid of the
   distillation column for the removal of water is low, and a problem of by-production of THF
   arises as described above.      Also, if the pH of the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing
20 solution is too high, that is, the pH of the bottom liquid of the distillation column for the
   removal of water is too high, a side reaction such as occurrence of high boiling is promoted as
   described above.
   [0032]
              The 1,4BG concentration in the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution is not
25 particularly limited, but usually, the lower limit is 80 mass% or more, preferably 82 mass% or
   more, more preferably 85 mass% or more.          On the other hand, the upper limit is usually 99.5
   mass% or less, preferably 99.0 mass% or less, more preferably 98.0 mass% or less.
   Although the concentration varies depending on the kind of the purity mixed and cannot be
   indiscriminately specified, with a concentration not more than the upper limit above, the load
30 of the fermentation step is reduced, and 1,4BG having higher quality as a whole may be
   obtained.
   [0033]
              In the present invention, a crude 1,4BG-containing solution is obtained from the

                                                     13
   refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution by passing through at least one method out of
   a method where components higher in the boiling point than 1,4BG in the refined raw material
   1,4BG-containing solution are removed through at least one or more steps of the following
   steps (a) to (c), a method where light-boiling-point components are removed, and a method
 5 where an unsaturated compound is converted to a hydride, and the crude 1,4BG-containing
   solution is refined through the following step (d), whereby high-purity refined 1,4BG is
   obtained.
             Also, in the present invention, the following step (e) may be further performed, and
   the following step (f) may be performed in advance of the step (c).
10 Step (a):
             A step of distilling the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution in a distillation
   column to remove components which are contained in the refined raw material
   1,4BG-containing solution and higher in the boiling point than 1,4BG.
   Step (b):
15           A step of distilling the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution in a distillation
   column to remove components which are contained in the refined raw material
   1,4BG-containing solution and lighter in the boiling point than 1,4BG.
   Step (c):
             A hydrogenation step of at least partially converting unsaturated compounds
20 contained in the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution into a hydride.
   Step (d):
             A step of distilling the crude 1,4BG-containing solution in a distillation column and
   withdrawing refined 1,4BG from a side stream.
   Step (e):
25           A step of distilling components higher in the boiling point than 1,4BG, which are
   separated in the step (a), and thereby separating and recovering 1,4BG.
   Step (f):
             A step of brining the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution into contact with
   a base.
30 [0034]
             These steps (a) to (f) according to the present invention are described in detail below,
   but in the following description of each step, unless otherwise indicated, the distillation
   operation in a distillation column may be either a batch system or a continuous system, and in

                                                     14
   view of productivity, a distillation operation of a continuous system is preferred.       Also, the
   distillation may be single stage distillation or multi-stage distillation but in view of separation
   performance, multi-stage distillation is preferred, and in the distillation column, either a plate
   or a regular and/or irregular packing material can be used.
 5 [0035]
              The steps (a) to (c) are preceding steps before introducing the refined raw material
   1,4BG-containing solution into the step (d), and the refined raw material 1,4BG is passed
   through any one step, two steps or all steps of the steps (a) to (c) and thereafter, introduced
   into the step (d).    In the case of performing two or more steps out of the steps (a) to (c), the
10 order of the steps is not particularly limited.
              At the time of producing PBT by using, as a raw material, the refined 1,4BG obtained
   in the step (d), from the standpoint that coloring of the obtained PBT can be suppressed, the
   refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution is preferably passed through all steps of the
   steps (a) to (c) and then introduced into the step (d).    In this case, the order of respective steps
15 may be shuffled, but the order is preferably step (a) -+ step (c) -+ step (b) -> step (d).
   [0036]
              Fig. 1 is a systematic diagram illustrating the order of steps when all of the steps (a)
   to (f) are employed, which is a preferred embodiment of the present invention.
              The operation in each step is described below along with this systematic diagram, but
20 the present invention is not limited to the embodiment shown in Fig. 1, and one or two steps
   out of the steps (a) to (c) or either one or more steps out of the steps (e) and (f) may be
   omitted, or other steps may be further added.
   [0037]
   <Step (a): a distillation step for removing the components higher in the boiling point than
25 1,4BG>
              In the step (a), components (high-boiling component) higher in the boiling point than
   1,4BG are removed from the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution in a distillation
   column (hereinafter, sometimes referred to as "distillation column (a)"), whereby a crude
   1,4BG-containing solution free from high-boiling components is obtained as an overhead
30 distillate of the distillation column (a).
              As described above, the water concentration in the refined raw material
   1,4BG-containing solution introduced into the distillation column (a) is preferably 1.5 mass%
   or less, more preferably 1 mass% or less, still more preferably 0.5 mass% or less, yet still more

                                                     15
   preferably 0.2 mass% or less.      By setting the water concentration in the refined raw material
   1,4BG-containing solution introduced into the distillation column (a) to be not more than the
   upper limit above, occurrence of a situation where steam cannot be recovered from a cooling
   condenser due to an excessive reduction in the top temperature of the distillation column can
 5 be advantageously prevented.       Therefore, when the water concentration in the refined raw
   material 1,4BG-containing solution is more than the upper limit above, the refined raw
   material 1,4BG-containing solution is preferably introduced into the distillation column (a)
   after removing water by further repeating the distillation.
   [0038]
10          In the step (a), among others, nitrogen-containing components derived from amino
   acid and protein, and components higher in the boiling point than 1,4BG, which are peculiar to
   the fermentation process, such as sugar and a decomposition produce thereof, are removed.
            The nitrogen-containing component such as amino acid is lightly boiled into amides,
   etc. by heating and, in particular, amides having a carbon number of 4, such as 2-pyrrolidone,
15 are sometimes allowed to be contained.       These amides also become causative of coloring at
   the time of PBT production and are preferably separated at the same time by this distillation
   operation.
   [0039]
            Among others, in the case where 1,4BG as the PBT raw material contains
20 2-pyrrolidone, coloring at the time of PBT production becomes conspicuous.          Therefore, the
   high-boiling-point components are removed until the 2-pyrrolidone concentration in the crude
   1,4BG-containing solution that is the distillate of the distillation column (a) is reduced
   preferably to 100 ppm by mass or less, more preferably 20 ppm by mass or less, still more
   preferably 10 ppm by mass.       On the other hand, the lower limit of the 2-pyrrolidone
25 concentration in the distillate is preferably lower but is usually 0.01 ppm by mass or more,
   preferably 0.05 ppm by mass or more, more preferably 0.1 ppm by mass or more.
            The concentration of the nitrogen atom-containing compound such as 2-pyrrolidone
   can be controlled by the nitrogen atom concentration, and although not particularly limited, the
   nitrogen atom concentration in the distillate is preferably 50 ppm by mass or less, more
30 preferably 30 ppm by mass or less, still more preferably 20 ppm by mass or less.
   [0040]
            The distillation column (a) used is preferably a distillation column having, as the
   theoretical plate, from 3 to 100 plates, more preferably from 5 to 50 plates.

                                                      16
             The reflux ratio is arbitrary but is preferably from 0.01 to 100, more preferably from
   0.1 to 50.   Above all, a reflux ratio of 0.2 to 20 is preferred.
   [0041]
             The reboiler as the heating region of the distillation column (a) is not particularly
 5 limited but is preferably a forced circulation reboiler or a falling film reboiler.  In particular,
   the residence time in the contact region with a heating source in the bottom is preferably
   shorter so as to avoid fouling, and a structure where the heating source is not put into contact
   with a gas-phase part or a structure where the amount of contact is minimized, is preferred.        It
   is also possible to recover steam from a cooling condenser in the top of the distillation column
10 (a).
   [0042]
             The top pressure of the distillation column (a) is, in terms of absolute pressure,
   preferably from 1 to 200 kPa, more preferably from 2 to 100 kPa, still more preferably from 5
   to 50 kPa.    As the top pressure is lower, the temperature in the column can be reduced, and
15 production of new impurities from biomass-derived components such as amino acid and sugar
   can be thereby prevented.      Also, as the top pressure is higher, steam recovery from the top
   region becomes more successful and furthermore, the volume of the column itself can be
   reduced.
   [0043]
20           The temperature in the distillation column (a) is determined by the composition and
   pressure, but the temperature in the bottom where the temperature becomes highest is
   preferably from 150 to 200'C, more preferably from 160 to 195 C, still more preferably from
   165 to 190'C.     By setting the bottom temperature of the distillation column (a) to be not less
   than the lower limit above, steam recovery from the top region can be prevented from failing
25 due to too low temperature, and by setting the bottom temperature to be not more than the
   upper limit above, increase in the production volume of byproducts can be prevented.
             The top temperature is preferably from 140 to 190'C, more preferably from 150 to
   185'C, still more preferably from 155 to 180'C.        By setting the top temperature to be not less
   than the lower limit above, steam recovery from the top region can be prevented from failing,
30 and by setting the top temperature to be not more than the upper limit above, increase in the
   production volume of byproducts can be prevented.
   [0044]
             The distillate obtained in the distillation column (a) of removing components higher

                                                       17
   in the boiling point than 1,4BG is carried over into the next step.         The bottom product
   containing a large number of components higher in the boiling point than 1,4BG may be
   discarded as it is but is preferably fed to the distillation step (e) of recovering 1,4BG.
   [0045]
 5            The fouling rate in the bottom of the distillation column (a) of removing components
   higher in the boiling point than 1,4BG can be greatly reduced by keeping the 1,4BG
   concentration in the bottom product of the distillation column (a) high, which contains a large
   number of components higher in the boiling point than 1,4BG.             This is because excessive
   concentration of a high-boiling-point component promotes precipitation of amino acid, protein
10 or a solid component such as sugar.       Therefore, the bottom product withdrawn from the
   bottom of the distillation column (a) preferably contains 1,4BG to a certain extent, and the
   1,4BG concentration in the bottom product is preferably from 40 to 99.2 mass%, more
   preferably from 50 to 99.0 mass%, still more preferably from 55 to 98.8 mass%.
              Incidentally, the overhead distribution ratio (=(flow rate of overhead distillate/flow
15 rate of feed)x 100) in the distillation column (a) is preferably from 50 to 98%, more preferably
   from 60 to 95%, still more preferably from 70 to 90%.
   [0046]
              Here, from the standpoint that 1,4BG contained in the components higher in the
   boiling point than 1,4BG, which are separated in the step (a), can be further recovered, the
20 production method preferably further has the following step (e), in addition to the steps (a) to
   (d).
   [0047]
   <Step (e): a step of separating and recovering 1,4BG from the components higher in the
   boiling point than 1,4BG, which are separated in the step (a)>
25            In the step (e), the components higher in the boiling point than 1,4BG, which are
   separated in the step (a), that is, the distillate of the distillation column (a), are distilled in a
   distillation column (hereinafter, sometimes referred to as "distillation column (e)") to separate
   and recover 1,4BG.
   [0048]
30            The distillation column (e) used in the step (e) is preferably a distillation column
   having, as the theoretical plate, from 2 to 50 plates, more preferably from 5 to 30 plates.
              The reflux ratio is arbitrary but is preferably from 0.01 to 100, more preferably from
   0.1 to 50.     Above all, a reflux ratio of 0.2 to 20 is preferred.    It is also possible to recover

                                                     18
   steam from a cooling condenser in the top of the distillation column (e).
   [0049]
             The reboiler as the heating region of the distillation column (e) is not particularly
   limited but is preferably a forced circulation reboiler or a falling film reboiler. In particular,
 5 the residence time in the contact region with a heating source in the bottom is preferably
   shorter so as to avoid fouling, and a structure where the heating source is not put into contact
   with a gas-phase part or a structure where the amount of contact is minimized, is preferred.
   Incidentally, unlike the distillation column (a) of the step (a), when the inside of the distillation
   column (e) of the step (e) is fouled, it is possible to once stop only the distillation column (e)
10 and conduct a bypass operation all that time, even in the middle of continuous operation of the
   steps (a) to (d).
   [0050]
             The top pressure of the distillation column (e) is, in terms of absolute pressure,
   preferably from 0.1 to 100 kPa, more preferably from 0.2 to 50 kPa, still more preferably from
15 1 to 20 kPa.     As the top pressure is lower, the temperature in the column can be reduced,
   making it possible to prevent production of new impurities from biomass-derived components
   such as amino acid and sugar, and at the same time, obstruction due to progress of
   polymerization in the bottom can be avoided.        Also, as the top pressure is higher, the volume
   of the column itself can be reduced.
20 [0051]
             The bottom temperature of the distillation column (e) is preferably from 150 to
   200'C, more preferably from 160 to 195 C, still more preferably from 165 to 190'C.            By
   setting the bottom temperature of the distillation column (a) to be not less than the lower limit
   above, steam recovery from the top region can be prevented from failing due to too low
25 temperature, and by setting the bottom temperature to be not more than the upper limit above,
   the byproduct can be prevented from increasing in its production volume or becoming
   causative of fouling.
             The top temperature is preferably from 140 to 190'C, more preferably from 150 to
   185'C, still more preferably from 155 to 180'C.        By setting the top temperature to be not less
30 than the lower limit above, steam recovery from the top region can be prevented from failing
   due to too low temperature, and by setting the top temperature to be not more than the upper
   limit above, increase in the production volume of byproducts can be prevented.
   [0052]

                                                      19
             The distillate containing 1,4BG separated in the distillation column (e) is preferably
   circulated to the distillation column (a) to recover 1,4BG. The bottom product containing a
   larger number of high-boiling point components concentrated in the distillation column (e) is
   discarded as it is but is preferably incinerated to recover heat.
 5           Almost all high-boiling-point components can be discharged by this distillation
   operation, but a larger number of high-boiling-point components including 2-pyrrolidone can
   be further discarded when the distillation column (e) is set to have theoretical plates in the
   above-described range.       In addition, a large amount of nitrogen contents or sulfur contents in
   the high-boiling-point components can be discharged.
10 [0053]
   <Step (c): a step of hydrogenating unsaturated compounds contained in the refined raw
   material 1,4BG-containing solution>
             In the step (c), components causative of coloring of refined 1,4BG and/or components
   causative of coloring at the time of producing PBT by using the refined 1,4BG as a raw
15 material are eliminated.      Specifically, a carbonyl compound such as ketone, aldehyde and
   ester, an unsaturated compound having an olefin moiety, etc. are converted to hydrides by a
   hydrogenation reaction, resulting in disappearance of a carbonyl bond and an olefin moiety
   contained in the structures of compounds that are a causative component of coloring.        The
   obtained hydrides can be removed as an alcohol, etc. by distillation.
20           Out of these causative components of coloring, a cyclic carbonyl compound having a
   carbon number of 5 or 6, such as ketone and/or aldehyde, exerts a significantly adverse effect
   on the color tone at the time of PBT production and therefore, in the step (c), the cyclic
   carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 is preferably converted to a
   hydride and reduced in its concentration, whereby a remarkable effect of improving the color
25 tone at the time of PBT production is obtained.       The "cyclic carbonyl compound having a
   carbon atom number of 5 or 6" as used herein indicates both a cyclic carbonyl compound
   having a carbon atom number of 5 and a cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom
   number of 6.
             Also, the total amount of these carbonyl compounds can be controlled as a carbonyl
30 valence, and the carbonyl valence can be reduced in the step (c).
   [0054]
             The cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 is preferably a
   compound having a 5-membered ring or 6-membered ring structure, more preferably having

                                                      20
   an oxygen atom-containing cyclic skeleton.         Specifically, the compound includes one or more
   compounds selected from the group consisting of compounds having structures represented by
   the following formulae (I), (II) and (III):
   [0055]
 5 [Chem. 1]
                                  R4       Formula (I)
                             R3
   [0056]
   (wherein in formula (I), each of R 1 to R4 independently represents a hydrogen atom, a methyl
   group, a formyl group or an acetyl group, any one of R 1 to R4 is a formyl group or an acetyl
10 group, and the total number of carbon atoms contained in respective groups of R 1 to R4 is 2 or
   less);
   [0057]
   [Chem. 2]
                        0
                   X        X
                   R,       X     RF        orm ula (II)
              Rg'     '       ', R7
                        RX
15 [0058]
   (wherein in formula (II), each of a plurality of X independently represents a carbon atom or an
   oxygen atom, the total number of oxygen atoms contained in the plurality of X is 1, each of R 5
   to R 9 independently represents a methyl group or a hydrogen atom, and the total number of
   carbon atoms contained in respective groups of R 5 to R 9 is 1 or less); and
20 [0059]
   [Chem. 3]
                          0
               Rio                R,11
                                  OFormula          (III)
                            0      R1 2
                          R13
   [0060]
   (wherein in formula (III), each of RIO to R 13 independently represents a methyl group or a

                                                    21
   hydrogen atom, and the total number of carbon atoms contained in respective groups of Rio to
   R 13 is 1 or less).
   [0061]
              More specifically, as examples of the compound having a structure represented by
 5 formula (I), the compound having a carbon atom number of 5 includes
   tetrahydro-2-furaldehyde, tetrahydro-3-furaldehyde and the like and the compound having a
   carbon atom number of 6 includes 2-acetyltetrahydrofuran[1-(tetrahydrofuran-2-yl)ethanone],
   3-acetyltetrahydrofuran[1-(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)ethanone], 5-methyltetrahydro-2-furaldehyde,
   4-methyltetrahydro-2-furaldehyde, 3-methyltetrahydro-2-furaldehyde,
10 2-methyltetrahydro-3-furaldehyde, 4-methyltetrahydro-3-furaldehyde,
   5-methyltetrahydro-3-furaldehyde, 2-(tetrahydrofuran-2-yl)acetaldehyde,
   3-(tetrahydrofuran-2-yl)acetaldehyde, etc.
   [0062]
              As examples of the compound having a structure represented by formula (II), the
15 compound having a carbon atom number of 5 includes tetrahydro-4H-pyran-4-one and the like
   and the compound having a carbon atom number of 6 includes
   3-methyltetrahydro-4H-pyran-4-one, 2-methyltetrahydro-4H-pyran-4-one,
   2-formyl-tetrahydropyran, 3-formyl-tetrahydropyran, 4-formyl-tetrahydropyran, etc.
   [0063]
20            As examples of the compound having a structure represented by formula (III), the
   compound having a carbon atom number of 5 includes dihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one and the
   like and the compound having a carbon atom number of 6 includes
   2-methyldihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one, 4-methyldihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one,
   5-methyldihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one, 6-methyldihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one, etc.
25 [0064]
              Preferably, as examples of the compound having a structure represented by formula
   (I), the compound having a carbon atom number of 5 is tetrahydro-2-furaldehyde, and the
   compound having a carbon atom number of 6 is
   2-acetyltetrahydrofuran[ 1-(tetrahydrofuran-2-yl)ethanone],
30 3-acetyltetrahydrofuran[1-(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)ethanone] or
   5-methyltetrahydro-2-furaldehyde; as the compound having a structure represented by formula
   (II), the compound having a carbon atom number of 5 is tetrahydro-4H-pyran-4-one, and the
   compound having a carbon number of 6 is 2-methyltetrahydro-4H-pyran-4-one or

                                                    22
   2-formyl-tetrahydropyran; and as the compound having a structure represented by formula
   (III), the compound having a carbon atom number of 5 is dihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one, and
   the compound having a carbon atom number of 6 is 2-methyldihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one,
   4-methyldihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one, 5-methyldihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one or
 5 6-methyldihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one.
   [0065]
              More preferably, as the compound having a structure represented by formula (I), the
   compound having a carbon atom number of 5 is tetrahydro-2-furaldehyde, and the compound
   having a carbon atom number of 6 is
10 2-acetyltetrahydrofuran[1-(tetrahydrofuran-2-yl)ethanone]; as the compound having a
   structure represented by formula (II), the compound having a carbon atom number of 5 is
   tetrahydro-4H-pyran-4-one, and the compound having a carbon number of 6 is
   2-methyltetrahydro-4H-pyran-4-one; and as the compound having a structure represented by
   formula (III), the compound having a carbon atom number of 5 is
15 dihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one, and the compound having a carbon atom number of 6 is
   2-methyldihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one, 4-methyldihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one or
   5-methyldihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one.
   [0066]
              These cyclic carbonyl compounds having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 are thought
20 to be derived from sugar used as a raw material for the fermentation and is presumed to be
   produced in the fermentation step and/or refinement step by cyclization of polyhydric alcohols
   having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 derived from pentose and/or hexose.
   [0067]
              The concentration of the cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon number of 5 or 6
25 is, in terms of the concentration in the solution introduced into the hydrogenation step (c),
   preferably from 0.001 to 2 mass%, more preferably from 0.01 to 1 mass%, still more
   preferably from 0.02 to 0.5 mass%.      When the concentration of the cyclic carbonyl
   compound having a carbon number of 5 or 6 in the solution introduced into the hydrogenation
   step (c) is not more than the upper limit above, deterioration of the color tone at the time of
30 PBT production is prevented.      Also, in the case where the concentration is below the lower
   limit, although this is a preferred embodiment, the reaction conditions must be tightened and
   therefore, from the economical viewpoint, the concentration is preferably not less than the
   lower limit above.

                                                    23
   [0068]
             The cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 is at least
   partially hydrogenated in the step (c), as a result, the UV absorption value is reduced and the
   carbonyl valence is also reduced.     Incidentally, in the step (c), at least 10% or more of the
 5 cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 is preferably hydrogenated,
   and this ratio is more preferably 20% or more, still more preferably 40% or more.        Also, the
   concentration in the outlet solution of the hydrogenation step (c) is, as a total of cyclic
   carbonyl compounds having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6, preferably 0.1 mass% or less,
   more preferably 0.08 mass% or less.
10 [0069]
             The method for hydrogenation in the step (c) is not particularly limited, but the
   above-described causative component having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6, such as ketone,
   ester and aldehyde, can be hydrogenated in the presence of various hydrogenation catalysts.
   The hydrogenation catalyst is arbitrary as long as it is a catalyst capable of hydrogenating a
15 cyclic carbonyl compound such as ketone and aldehyde, but it is preferable to use a solid
   catalyst containing at least one metal or two or more metals such as nickel (Ni), palladium
   (Pd), ruthenium (Ru), platinum (Pt) and copper (Cu), and a catalyst containing Ni is most
   preferred.
   [0070]
20           The amount of the metal such as Ni, Pd, Ru, Pt and Cu in the hydrogenation catalyst
   is preferably from 5 to 80 mass%, more preferably from 15 to 80 mass%, still more preferably
   from 50 to 80 mass%.      Incidentally, the form of the metal contained in the hydrogenation
   catalyst may the metal itself or may be a metal oxide.      In the case where the proportion of the
   metal oxide is high, a reductive activation treatment with a hydrogen gas may be previously
25 performed before starting the reaction, but the reaction may be started without such a
   treatment.
   [0071]
             The solid catalyst preferably contains a support, and the support includes silica,
   alumina, zirconia, kieselguhr and the like.    Among others, the support preferably contains at
30 least either kieselguhr or silica.
             The content of the support in the catalyst is preferably from 5 to 95 mass%, more
   preferably from 7 to 80 mass%, still more preferably from 10 to 60 mass%.
   [0072]

                                                      24
              As long as the solid catalyst for use in the present invention contains a metal such as
   Ni, Pd, Ru, Pt and Cu, the catalyst may contain other metals or metal oxides.          For example,
   the catalyst may contain chromium, manganese, zinc, magnesium, sodium, rhenium and
   calcium, and in particular, a catalyst containing chromium and magnesium is preferred.
 5            Such a metal may also be contained as the metal itself or in the state of various salts
   such as oxide and hydroxide.       For example, the content of magnesium oxide in the catalyst is
   preferably from 0.1 to 20 mass%, more preferably from 0.5 to 15 mass%, still more preferably
   from ito 10 mass%.        One of these catalysts may be used alone, or two or more thereof may
   be mixed and used.
10 [0073]
              The reaction temperature at the time of performing the hydrogenation of the step (c)
   is not particularly limited but is preferably from 0 to 200 C, more preferably from 30 to
   150'C, still more preferably from 40 to 120'C.         If this temperature is too high, catalyst
   deterioration is promoted, and furthermore, the amount of high-boiling byproducts is
15 increased.    If the reaction temperature is too low, the reaction scarcely proceeds.
              The hydrogen pressure in the hydrogenation is not particularly limited but, in terms of
   gauge pressure, may be from 0.1 to 100 MPa and is preferably from 0.5 to 10 MPa, more
   preferably from 1 to 6 MPa.       If this pressure is too low, the reaction rate is low and the
   productivity is reduced.     If the pressure is too high, use of a reactor material in a large amount
20 and increase in the load of compressor are involved, and the construction cost greatly rises.
   [0074]
              The hydrogenation reaction is preferably performed by passing the refined raw
   material 1,4BG-containing solution (in Fig. 1, the solution obtained by further treating, in the
   step (f), the 1,4BG-containing distillate from the step (a)) to a reactor where a layer packed
25 with the above-described solid catalyst is formed, and at this time, the reaction time is, in
   terms of residence time based on empty column, preferably 5 minutes or more, more
   preferably 10 minutes or more, still more preferably 30 minutes or more, and is preferably 100
   hours or less, more preferably 50 hours or less, still more preferably 10 hours or less.        If this
   residence time is too short, the reaction scarcely proceeds, and if the residence time is too
30 long, the catalyst-packed layer becomes long and due to rise in the cost of installing the reactor
   and increase in the catalyst amount, the profitability significantly deteriorates.
   [0075]
              As determined from the residence time based on empty column, the amount of the

                                                       25
   catalyst packed is, relative to the flow rate per minute of the solution introduced, preferably
   0.05 volume times or more, more preferably 0.1 volume times or more, still more preferably
   0.5 volume times or more, and is preferably 100 volume times or less, more preferably 50
   volume times or less, still more preferably 10 volume times or less.         If the amount of the
 5 catalyst packed is too small, the reaction scarcely proceeds, and if the amount of the catalyst
   packed is too large, the catalyst cost rises to significantly deteriorate the profitability.
   [0076]
             As for the reaction mode, all of hydrogenation reactors of a general packed layer type
   using various solid catalysts, such as fixed bed, trickle bed, suspension bed (slurry) and
10 multi-tubular system, may be used, but either a fixed bed reactor or a tickle bed reactor is
   preferred.    As the reactor, one reactor may be used, or a plurality of reactors may be used.
   Also, a filter selected so as not to carry over the catalyst powder into later steps is preferably
   provided at the outlet of the hydrogenation reactor.
             In the case where a large amount of a hydrogenation catalyst powder or a molten
15 metal is carried over into later steps, a dehydrogenation reaction of 1,4BG may proceed in the
   heating region or the like to produce 2-hydroxytetrahydrofuran or
   2-(4-hydroxybutyloxy)tetrahydrofuran.
   [0077]
             In the step (c), there is a fear of deterioration of the catalyst due to a long-term
20 continuous operation.      Among others, the impurities in the 1,4BG-containing composition
   produced by a fermentation process contain components including chlorine, sulfur and the
   like.  In order to remove these chlorine and sulfur components, it is preferable to previously
   perform the following step (f) before the step (c).
   [0078]
25 <Step (f): a step of brining the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution into contact
   with a base>
             In the present invention, the above-described hydrogenation step (c) is preferably
   provided so as to remove cyclic carbonyl compounds having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6,
   which are a causative component of coloring, but as regards the hydrogenation catalyst,
30 catalyst deterioration is accelerated by a strong acid such as hydrochloric acid and sulfuric
   acid.   On the other hand, the crude 1,4BG-containing composition produced by a
   fermentation process sometimes contains chlorine contents such as hydrochloric acid, or sulfur
   contents such as sulfuric acid.     Therefore, a step (f) of bringing a solid base or a soluble base

                                                    26
   such as amine into contact with the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution to remove
   those contents is preferably provided at a stage before passing through the step (c).
   [0079]
            As the base usable in the step (f), a base that dissolves in the refined raw material
 5 1,4BG-containing solution or crude 1,4BG-containing solution, such as various amines, may
   be used, and specifically, the base is preferably trimethylamine, triethylamine, tripropylamine,
   tributylamine, tripentylamine, trihexylamine, triheptylamine, trioctylamine, tridecanylamine,
   triphenylamine, diphenylmethylamine, diphenylethylamine, diphenylbutylamine,
   dimethylphenylamine, diethylphenylamine, dibutylphenylamine, tricyclopentylamine,
10 tricyclohexylamine, tricycloheptylamine, pyridine, 1,4-diazabicyclo [2.2.2]octane,
   1,8-diazabicyclo[5.4.0]-7-undecane, 1,5-diazabicyclo[4.3.0]-5-nonene,
   2,5-diazabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptane and the like, more preferably tributylamine, tripentylamine,
   trihexylamine, triheptylamine, trioctylamine, dimethylphenylamine, tricyclohexylamine,
   pyridine, 1,4-diazabicyclo[2.2.2]octane, 1,8-diazabicyclo[5.4.0]-7-undecane or
15 1,5-diazabicyclo[4.3.0]-5-nonene, still more preferably trioctylamine, pyridine,
   1,8-diazabicyclo[5.4.0]-7-undecane or 1,4-diazabicyclo[2.2.2]octane.
   [0080]
            However, in the step (f), a solid base capable of being easily separated after the
   contact with the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution or crude 1,4BG-containing
20 solution is preferably used rather than a base that dissolves in the refined raw material
   1,4BG-containing solution or crude 1,4BG-containing solution.         The solid base can exert its
   effects and be used as long as it is a solid-form compound having basicity, but the base is
   preferably at least one member selected from an anionic exchange resin, a triazine
   ring-containing compound having an amino group or a substituted amino group, a polyamide,
25 and an inorganic base.
   [0081]
             The anionic exchange resin as the solid base is not particularly limited, and a
   commercially available product may be used.       Also, the kind of the structure is not
   particularly limited, and all of a gel type, an MR (macroreticular) type, a porous type and a
30 high porous type may be used, but among others, a styrene-based or acrylic resin having a
   quaternary ammonium salt as a functional group is preferred.
   [0082]
             The triazine ring-containing compound having an amino group or a substituted amino

                                                      27
   group includes, preferably, a melamine resin, CTU guanamine
   (3,9-bis[2-(3,5-diamino-2,4-6-triazaphenyl)ethyl]-2,4,8,10-tetraoxaspiro[5,5]undecane),
   CMTU guanamine (3,9-bis
   [1-(3,5-diamino-2,4,6-triazaphenyl)methyl]-2,4,8,10-tetraoxaspiro[5,5]undecane)         and the like.
 5 Two or more thereof may be used in combination.
   [0083]
             The polyamide includes, for example, nylon 6, nylon 12, nylon 4/6, nylon 6/6, nylon
   6/10, and nylon 6/12.       Two or more thereof may be used in combination.
   [0084]
10           The inorganic base includes an alkali metal compound and an alkaline earth metal
   compound and specifically includes, for example, a metal oxide such as CaO and MgO, a
   metal hydroxide such as Ca(OH) 2 and Mg(OH) 2, a metal carbonate such as Na 2 CO 3 , K 2 C0 3 ,
   CaCO 3 and MgCO 3 , and a metal inorganic acid salt such as borate and phosphate of the
   compound above.         Two or more thereof may be used in combination.
15 [0085]
            Among these solid bases, a triazine ring-containing compound having an amino
   group or a substituted amino group, and an anionic exchange resin are more preferred, and an
   anionic exchange resin is still more preferred.
   [0086]
20          In the step (f), the temperature at the time of contact of a base with the refined raw
   material 1,4BG-containing solution or crude 1,4BG-containing solution is preferably from -20
   to 200'C, more preferably from 0 to 120'C, still more preferably from 30 to 100 0 C.         If the
   temperature is too low, a special apparatus such as freezing device is necessary and the
   competitive power of the process is reduced, whereas if the temperature is too high,
25 deterioration of the solid base proceeds.
   [0087]
             The contact time is preferably from 1 minute to 100 hours, more preferably from 10
   minutes to 20 hours, still more preferably from 20 minutes to 10 hours.        If the contact time is
   too short, it is difficult to sufficiently remove the catalyst-deteriorating component, whereas if
30 the contact time is too long, the process becomes inefficient.
   [0088]
             The solid base that is brought into contact with the refined raw material
   1,4BG-containing solution or crude 1,4BG-containing solution may be used in a ratio of 0.01

                                                      28
   to 100 in terms of the mass ratio to the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution or
   crude 1,4BG-containing solution, and the ratio is preferably from 0.1 to 20, more preferably
   from 0.2 to 10.
   [0089]
 5            The contact method with the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution or crude
   1,4BG-containing solution may be either in batch or continuous mode, but in view of ease of
   operation, a continuous flow system is particularly preferred.
   [0090]
   <Step (b): a distillation step of removing components lighter in the boiling point than 1,4BG>
10            In the step (b), the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution (in Fig. 1, the
   processing solution of the step (c)) is distilled in a distillation column (hereinafter, sometimes
   referred to as "distillation column (b)"), whereby components lighter in the boiling point than
   1,4BG are removed.        The components lighter in the boiling point than 1,4BG, which are
   removed in the distillation column (b), include causative components of coloring.
15            The purpose of this step (b) is both to sufficiently remove light-boiling-point
   components for obtaining high-purity 1,4BG and to remove a slight amount of causative
   components of coloring.        By this operation, among others, a coloring-causative component
   itself, a hydrogenation form of the causative component of coloring, and furthermore,
   components lighter in the boiling point than 1,4BG, such as acetic acid, butyric acid, water,
20 tetrahydrofuran, 2-hydroxytetrahydrofuran, gamma-butyrolactone,
   1-acetoxy-4-hydroxybutane, 1,3-butanediol, 2,3-butanediol and
   2-(4-hydroxybutyloxy)tetrahydrofuran, are removed or quantitatively reduced.
   [0091]
              In particular, as for the cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of 5
25 or 6, which is a coloring-causative component described in the hydrogenation step of the step
   (c), in the case of performing the step (c) in advance of the step (b), most of the compound
   must be removed by the distillation of the step (b), and the concentration of the cyclic carbonyl
   compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 in the bottom product of the distillation
   column (b) is preferably 100 ppm or less, more preferably 20 ppm or less, still more preferably
30 10 ppm or less, and it is particularly preferable to remove the compound to a concentration not
   more than the lower detection limit.        The "not more than the lower detection limit" as used
   herein means a value detectable by a general gas chromatography.          Specifically, the
   compound is preferably removed to a concentration of 2 ppm or less.

                                                      29
             Also, the total amount of these carbonyl compounds can be controlled as a carbonyl
   valence, and the carbonyl valence can be reduced in the step (b).
   [0092]
             In addition, the concentration of, among others, 1-acetoxy-4-hydroxybutane in the
 5 crude 1,4BG-containing solution after removing light-boiling components by the distillation
   column of the step (b), that is, in the bottom product of the distillation column (b), is
   preferably 50 ppm by mass or less, more preferably 30 ppm by mass or less, still more
   preferably 20 ppm by mass or less, and is preferably 0.1 ppm by mass or more, more
   preferably 0.2 ppm by mass or more, still more preferably 0.5 ppm by mass or more.          By
10 setting the 1-acetoxy-4-hydroxybutane concentration to be not more than the upper limit
   above, deterioration of the color tone at the time of PBT production can be prevented, and by
   setting the 1-acetoxy-4-hydroxybutane concentration to be not less than the lower limit above,
   high refinement such as increase of the reflux ratio is not required and this is economically
   advantageous.
15 [0093]
             The distillation column (b) used for removing the components lighter in the boiling
   point than 1,4BG is preferably a distillation column having, as the theoretical plate, from 5 to
   100 plates, more preferably from 10 to 50 plates.
             The reflux ratio is arbitrary but is preferably from 0.01 to 100, more preferably from
20 0.1 to 50.   Above all, a reflux ratio of 0.2 to 20 is preferred.
   [0094]
             The reboiler as the heating region of the distillation column (b) is not particularly
   limited but is preferably a forced circulation reboiler or a falling film reboiler. In particular,
   the residence time in the contact region with a heating source in the bottom is preferably
25 shorter so as to avoid fouling, and a structure where the heating source is not put into contact
   with a gas-phase part or a structure where the amount of contact is minimized, is preferred.       It
   is also possible to recover steam from a cooling condenser in the top of the distillation column
   (b).
   [0095]
30           The top pressure of the distillation column (b) is, in terms of absolute pressure,
   preferably from 1 to 200 kPa, more preferably from 2 to 100 kPa, still more preferably from 5
   to 50 kPa.    As the top pressure is lower, the temperature in the column can be reduced, and
   production of new impurities due to a reaction of impurities in the column can be thereby

                                                        30
   prevented.      Also, as the top pressure is higher, steam recovery from the top region becomes
   more successful and furthermore, the volume of the column itself can be reduced.
   [0096]
              The temperature in the distillation column (b) is determined by the composition and
 5 pressure, but the temperature in the bottom part where the temperature becomes highest is
   preferably 200'C or less, more preferably 180'C or less, still more preferably 170'C or less,
   and is preferably 120'C or more, more preferably 130'C or more, still more preferably 140'C
   or more.     If the bottom temperature is too high, 1,4BG and a slight amount of impurities are
   reacted in the bottom to increase the fouling rate, and if the bottom temperature is too low,
10 high vacuum is required, which is economically undesired.
              The temperature in the top part where the temperature becomes lowest is 40'C or
   more, more preferably 50'C or more, still more preferably 60'C or more.           If the temperature
   of the top region is too low, the cooling cost becomes enormous.         Furthermore, if the
   temperature is high both in the top part and in the upper part of the column, a cyclic carbonyl
15 compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6, which is a causative component of
   coloring, is highly boiled with 1,4BG, and the highly boiled cyclic carbonyl compound having
   a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 is carried over in the high boiling form into the next step.         In
   addition, if the temperature is high, the light-boiling-point component tends to be increased
   also in the bottom liquid.      Therefore, the temperature in the top part is also preferably 160'C
20 or less, more preferably 140'C or less, still more preferably 130'C or less.
   [0097]
              The bottom product obtained in the distillation column (b) of removing components
   lighter in the boiling point than 1,4BG is carried over into the next step.      The distillate of the
   distillation column (b), containing a large number of components lighter in the boiling point
25 than 1,4BG, may be discarded as it is, or light-boiling-point components may be further
   separated from the distillate and fed to a distillation step of recovering 1,4BG.
   [0098]
   <Step (d): a distillation step of obtaining refined 1,4-butanediol>
              In the step (d), the crude 1,4BG-containing solution obtained through at least one step
30 out of the steps (a) to (c) is distilled in a distillation column (hereinafter, sometimes referred to
   as "distillation column (d)"), and refined 1,4-butanediol is withdrawn as a product from a side
   stream.     Depending on the case, the process sometimes passes through at least either one step
   of the steps (e) and (f), in addition to the steps (a) to (c).

                                                     31
   [0099]
              In the step (d), the refined 1,4BG is obtained as a side stream of the distillation
   column (d), but 1,4BG containing a slight amount of light-boiling-point components such as
   acetic acid, butyric acid, water, tetrahydrofuran, 2-hydroxytetrahydrofuran,
 5 gamma-butyrolactone, 1-acetoxy-4-hydroxybutane, 1,3-butanediol, 2,3-butanediol and
   2-(4-hydroxybutyloxy)tetrahydrofuran is distilled out from the top of the distillation column
   (d), and 1,4BG containing a slight amount of high-boiling-point components is discharged
   from the bottom.
   [0100]
10            These overhead distillate and still bottom product of the distillation column (d) are
   preferably recovered to the preceding step individually or after being mixed.        In particular,
   the coloring-causative component having a significant effect on the quality of the refined
   1,4BG, such as cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6, is a
   light-boiling-point component and therefore, is discharged in a higher concentration by the
15 overhead distillate than by the side stream.
              From the standpoint of decreasing the causative components of coloring, it is
   important that the gamma-butyrolactone concentration in the overhead distillate of the
   distillation column (d) is higher than the gamma-butyrolactone concentration in the refined
   1,4BG withdrawn from a side stream.         The gamma-butyrolactone concentration in the
20 overhead distillate is preferably on the order of 1.1 to 500 times the gamma-butyrolactone
   concentration in the refined 1,4BG of the side stream.        Also, the total amount of carbonyl
   compounds can be controlled as a carbonyl valence, and the carbonyl valence can be reduced
   in the step (d).
   [0101]
25            The concentration of the cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of
   5 or 6, in the refined 1,4BG withdrawn as a side stream, is preferably 20 ppm by mass or less,
   more preferably 12 ppm by mass or less, still more preferably 8 ppm by mass or less.
              In addition, the water concentration and 1,4BG purity need to be controlled.
   Preferably, the water concentration in the side stream is 500 ppm by mass or less, and the
30 1,4BG purity is 99.5 mass% or more.
   [0102]
              As long as the distillation column (d) is a distillation column capable of satisfying
   these quality items, refined 1,4BG can be obtained by performing distillation with arbitrary

                                                      32
   plates and conditions, but the distillation column (d) used to obtain refined 1,4BG is preferably
   a distillation column having, as the theoretical plate, from 5 to 100 plates, more preferably
   from 10 to 50 plates.
   [0103]
 5            The side stream-withdrawing position when obtaining refined 1,4BG as a side stream
   is preferably located in the upper part relative to the raw material liquid feed plate and
   furthermore, in the height direction of the distillation column (b), the side stream is preferably
   withdrawn at a position superior to 50% of the height of the distillation column (b), for
   example, at a position of 50 to 90% of the theoretical plates from the bottom of the distillation
10 column (b), based on the theoretical plates of the distillation column (b).
              In particular, the distance between the raw material liquid feed plate and the side
   stream-withdrawing position is, in terms of the theoretical plate, 2 plates or more, preferably 3
   plates or more, and, for example, is preferably from 3 to 20 plates.        Incidentally, the number
   of theoretical plates from the top portion to the side stream-withdrawing position is preferably
15 from 1 to 50, more preferably from 2 to 20, still more preferably from 3 to 10.
              The reflux ratio of the distillation column (d) is arbitrary but is preferably from 0.01
   to 100, more preferably from 0.1 to 50.        Above all, a reflux ratio of 0.2 to 20 is preferred.
   [0104]
              The reboiler as the heating region of the distillation column (d) is not particularly
20 limited but is preferably a forced circulation reboiler or a falling film reboiler.     In particular,
   the residence time in the contact region with a heating source in the bottom is preferably
   shorter so as to avoid fouling, and a structure where the heating source is not put into contact
   with a gas-phase part or a structure where the amount of contact is minimized, is preferred.           It
   is also possible to recover steam from a cooling condenser in the top of the distillation column
25 (d).
   [0105]
              The top pressure of the distillation column (d) is, in terms of absolute pressure,
   preferably from 1 to 200 kPa, more preferably from 2 to 100 kPa, still more preferably from 2
   to 50 kPa.     As the top pressure is lower, the temperature in the column can be reduced, and
30 production of new impurities due to a reaction of impurities in the column can be thereby
   prevented.     On the other hand, as the top pressure is higher, steam recovery from the top
   region becomes more successful and furthermore, the volume of the column itself can be
   reduced.

                                                      33
   [0106]
             The temperature in the distillation column (d) is determined by the composition and
   pressure, but the temperature in the bottom where the temperature becomes highest is
   preferably from 120 to 200'C, more preferably from 130 to 180'C, still more preferably from
 5 140 to 170'C.
             The temperature in the top part where the temperature becomes lowest is 40'C or
   more, more preferably 50'C or more, still more preferably 60'C or more.            If the bottom
   temperature is too high, 1,4BG and a slight amount of impurities may be reacted in the bottom
   to deteriorate the quality of the refined 1,4BG, and if the bottom temperature is too low, high
10 vacuum is required, which is economically undesired.
   [0107]
             Furthermore, if the temperature is high both in the top part and in the upper part of
   the column, a component such as acetal resulting from high boiling with 1,4BG of a cyclic
   carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6, which is a causative component
15 of coloring, may decompose to increase the concentration of the cyclic carbonyl compound
   having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 in the refined 1,4BG. In addition, if the temperature
   is high, the light-boiling-point component tends to be increased also in the bottom liquid.
   Therefore, the temperature in the top part of the distillation column (d) is also preferably
   160'C or less, more preferably 150'C or less, still more preferably 145'C or less.          If the
20 temperature of the top region is too low, the cooling cost becomes enormous.
   [0108]
             As described above, in the case of passing all of the steps (a) to (c), the order of the
   steps is not particularly limited, but from the standpoint that coloring can be suppressed at the
   time of producing PBT by using the refined 1,4BG as a raw material, the refined raw material
25 1,4BG-containing solution is preferably refined, as shown in Fig. 1, in order of the steps (a),
   (c) and (b) and then introduced into the step (d).      The step (f) is not particularly limited as
   long as it is before the step (c), but the step is preferably immediately before the step (c).      The
   step (e) is preferably used together with the step (a).     Incidentally, the loss of 1,4BG can be
   reduced by circulating the overhead distillate of the step (d) to the preceding stage of the step
30 (f) and circulating the still bottom product to the step (e).
   Examples
   [0109]

                                                    34
             The present invention is described in greater detail below by referring to Examples,
   but the present invention is not limited to these Examples as long as the gist of the present
   invention is observed.
   [0110]
 5          In the following, the analyses of 1,4-butanediol (1,4BG), tetrahydrofuran (THF),
   gamma-butyrolactone (hereinafter referred to as "GBL"), 1-acetoxy-4-hydroxybutane
   (hereinafter referred to as "14HAB"), 2-(4-hydroxybutyloxy)tetrahydrofuran (hereinafter
   referred to as "BGTF"), 2-pyrrolidone (hereinafter referred to as "2P") and
   2-hydroxytetrahydrofuran (hereinafter referred to as "OTF") were performed by gas
10 chromatography in a gas chromatograph analyzer "Model Shimadzu GC-2014" manufactured
   by Shimadzu Corporation by using PEG-20M column (polar) manufactured by GL Science.
             The concentrations of 1,4BG, THF, GBL, 14HAB, BGTF, 2P and OTF were
   calculated by the corrected area percentage method computed from the effective carbon
   coefficient by making a correction with the water amount according to the Karl Fisher's
15 method (measured by "CA-03", manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation).
   [0111]
            Incidentally, the amount of the cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom
   number of 5 or 6 is small and therefore, the sample was injected into the gas chromatograph
   analyzer without dilution by a solvent.    Also, the amount of the cyclic carbonyl compound
20 having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 was calculated from the ratio between the area value of
   1,4BG and the area value of the cyclic carbonyl compound without making a correction to the
   effective carbon coefficient.
             The cyclic ketone and/or aldehyde each having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 can
   be detected by GC-MS and/or GC-IR and can be discriminated from other components in the
25 refined 1,4BG.    These are presumed to be 2-acetyltetrahydrofuran and
   2-methyldihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one.
   [0112]
   2-Acetyltetrahydrofuran (hereinafter, referred to as "ATF):
             GC-MS (El): 86, 71, 43, 29
30           GC-IR: 2980, 2885, 1734, 1454, 1360, 1176, 1080, 925 cm
   2-Methyldihydro-2H-pyran-3(4H)-one (hereinafter, referred to as "MHPO")
             GC-MS (El): 114, 71, 42, 29
             GC-IR: 2956, 2851, 1742, 1240, 1115 cm-

                                                     35
   [0113]
            In the following, the total of ATF and MHPO is defined as the total of cyclic carbonyl
   compounds having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 and is referred to as "total C5 ,C6 cyclic
   carbonyl".    Also, the component higher in the boiling point than 1,4BG is referred to as
 5 "high-boiling-point component", and the component lighter in the boiling point than 1,4BG is
   referred to as "light-boiling-point component".
   [0114]
             The concentration in terms of nitrogen atom of a nitrogen-containing compound in
   the sample was determined by burning the sample in an argon/oxygen atmosphere and
10 analyzing the combustion gas generated by means of a trace nitrogen analyzer (Model TN-10,
   manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Analytech Co., Ltd.) employing a combustion/reduced
   pressure chemiluminescence method.
   [0115]
            As for the analysis of sulfur and chlorine concentrations in the sample, the sample
15 was collected in a platinum-made boat and heated in a quartz-made tubular furnace ("Model
   AQF-100", manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation) and after absorbing chlorine
   contents and sulfur contents in the combustion gas by an aqueous 0.03% hydrogen peroxide
   solution, the chloride ion and sulfate ion in the absorbing solution were measured by ion
   chromatograph ("Model ICS-1000", manufactured by Dionex) to determine the
20 concentrations.
   [0116]
             The absorbance of the sample at a measurement wavelength of 260 nm (hereinafter,
   simply referred to as "absorbance") was measured using "UV-2400" manufactured by
   Shimadzu Corporation (using a synthetic quartz-made closed cell having a light path length of
25 1 mm and a light path width of 10 mm) by a visible and ultraviolet spectroscopy.        Here, pure
   water was used for blank measurement.
   [0117]
             The carbonyl valence of the sample was calculated according to the following
   formula by reacting a carbonyl compound with hydroxylamine hydrochloride (25 C, 1 hour)
30 and quantitatively determining the produced hydrochloric acid by neutralization titration with
   N/10 methanolic KOH.        For the titration, an automatic titrator (Automatic Titrator AUT-501,
   manufactured by DKK-Toa Corporation) was used.
             Carbonyl valence (mgKOH/g)        = (A-B)xfx5.6/S

                                                    36
   wherein A is the titer (mL) of 0.1 mol/L potassium hydroxide in this test, B is the titer (mL) of
   0.1 mol/L potassium hydroxide in the blank test, f is the factor of 0.1 mol/L potassium
   hydroxide, and S is the sample amount (g).
   [0118]
 5 [Production of Refined Raw Material 1,4BG-Containing Solution]
   [Production Example 1]
             A 1,4BG-containing composition was biologically produced in a culture medium for
   organism fermentation based on the description in JP-T-2010-521182.          From this
   1,4BG-containing composition, according to the method described in U.S. Patent Application
10 Publication No. 2011/0003355, bacterial cells and salt contents were entirely or each at least
   partially removed by filtration, centrifugal separation and an ion exchange resin and then
   water was removed by distillation.     The constituents of the 1,4BG-containing composition at
   this time are shown in Table-1.     The pH of the 1,4BG-containing composition was 6.3.
   [0119]
15           In order to further separate water from the 1,4BG-containing composition,
   dehydration by distillation was performed using an Oldershaw distillation column having 30
   theoretical plates.   Here, while setting the top pressure of the distillation column to 10.8 kPa
   and the reflux ratio to 1.0 and controlling the top temperature and bottom temperature to
   become constant at 48'C and 175'C, respectively, the 1,4BG-containing composition above
20 was continuously introduced at the position of 20th plate counted from the bottom at a flow
   rate of 105 mL/hour, and water was distilled out from the top at a flow rate of 10 mL/hour.
   Simultaneously with distillation out of water, dehydrated crude 1,4BG-containing solution
   (refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution) was continuously withdrawn as a bottom
   product from the bottom at 95 mL/hour.       The water concentration in the refined raw material
25 1,4BG-containing solution was 0.025 mass% (250 ppm by mass).             The constituents of the
   refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution obtained are shown in Table-1.         Incidentally,
   the pH of the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution was 5.5.
   [0120]
   [Table 1]

                                                       37
                                                     Table-i
              Component [unit]             I      1,4BG-Containing
                                                     Composition
                                                                               Refined Raw Material
                                                                            1,4BG-Containing Solution
      Light-boiling-point component
                                                          158                            469
               [ppm by mass]
            ATF [ppm by mass]                             102                            254
           MHPO [ppm by mass]                             118                            477
               Water [mass%]                              9.3                           0.025
            GBL [ppm by mass]                             103                             137
           14HAB [ppm by mass]                            184                             191
               1,4BG [mass%]                             90.3                            99.4
           BGTF [ppm by mass]                            636                             792
    High-boiling-point component [ppm                   2699                             3430
                    by mass]
       Nitrogen atom [ppm by mass]                        42                              48
         Total C 5 ,C6 cyclic carbonyl                   220                             731
               [ppm by mass]
   [0121]
   [Refinement of Refined Raw Material 1,4BG-Containing Solution]
 5 [Example 1]
   <Step (a): distillation separation of high-boiling-point component>
             With respect to the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution continuously
   obtained after the dehydration distillation in Production Example 1, components higher in the
   boiling point than 1,4BG, which are contained in the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing
10 solution, were removed in a distillation column.
             As the distillation column of the step (a), an Oldershaw distillation column having 30
   theoretical plates was used.        This Oldershaw distillation column is a distillation column
   where the heating source is put into contact substantially only with the bottom liquid and is not
   involved in contact with a gas-phase part, and the situation of being put into contact
15 substantially only with the bottom liquid includes, for example, a state of allowing contact
   with a heating medium in a region below the gas-liquid interface in the bottom, and a state of
   eliminating a gas-phase part by spraying the bottom with a liquid, but the situation above is
   not limited to these embodiments.
             While setting the top pressure to 15.7 kPa and the reflux ratio to 1.0 and controlling

                                                        38
   the top temperature and bottom temperature to become constant at 176CC and 184 0 C,
   respectively, the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing composition was continuously
   introduced at the position of 10th plate counted from the bottom at a flow rate of 86 mL/hour.
   Continuous distillation out from the top part was performed at 74 mL/hour, and continuous
 5 withdrawal from the bottom was performed at 12 mL/hour.              A continuous operation for 210
   hours could be stably performed without production of a solid matter.          A crude
   1,4BG-containing solution after removing components higher in the boiling point than 1,4BG
   was obtained from the top (overhead distillate).         The constituents of each of the still bottom
   product and the overhead distillate (crude 1,4BG-containing solution) of the distillation
10 column (a) are shown in Table-2.
   [0122]
   [Table 2]
                                                     Table-2
                                                                     Overhead       Still Bottom
                          Component [unit]
                                                                     Distillate       Product
   Light-boiling-point component [ppm by mass]                          1255              191
   THF [ppm by mass]                                                    224                0
   Acetic acid [ppm by mass]                                             10                0
   ATF [ppm by mass]                                                    291               24
   MHPO [ppm by mass]                                                   554               64
   OTF [ppm by mass]                                                    354               25
   Water [mass%]                                                        0.05            0.015
   GBL [ppm by mass]                                                    198               15
   14HAB [ppm by mass]                                                  229                6
   1,4BG [mass%]                                                        99.5             98.1
   BGTF [ppm by mass]                                                   1315             547
   2P [ppm by mass]                                                       0              232
   High-boiling-point component [mass%]                                 0.03             1.76
   Nitrogen atom [ppm by mass]                                           9.3             250
   Total C5 ,C6 cyclic carbonyl [ppm by mass]                           845               88
   [0123]
15            Incidentally, in the step (a), distillation separation may be performed at a bottom
   temperature and a top temperature lower than respective temperatures above by reducing the
   top pressure of the distillation column (a), but by setting the bottom temperature and the top

                                                      39
   temperature high, heat recovery from the top part can be performed.          In particular, the
   condensation heat of the distillate is preferably recovered as a pressurized steam.        The
   recovered heat can be used for the heat source of other distillation columns and the like.
   [0124]
 5 <Step (e): recovery distillation of 1,4BG from high-boiling point components separated in step
   (a)>
              Although an example by single stage distillation is described below, for more
   efficient 1,4BG recovery and separation of high-boiling-point components, continuous
   distillation is preferred, and more preferably, multi-stage distillation is performed.       It is also
10 preferable to appropriately conduct refluxing.
              Into a 500 mL glass-made flask equipped with a glass-made condenser for distillation
   out, 252.4 g of the still bottom product (the constituents of the liquid are shown in the column
   of "Still Bottom Product" in Table-2) withdrawn from the bottom in the step (a) was charged,
   and single stage batch distillation was performed at a pressure of 4.9 kPa and an in-flask
15 temperature of 153 to 169'C.       As a result, a distillate containing 235.2 g of 1,4BG was
   separated and recovered.      In the flask, 15.5 g of a concentrated liquid of high-boiling-point
   components was obtained as a distillation residue.         The constituents of each of the separated
   and recovered distillate and the distillation residue are shown in Table-3.
   [0125]
20 [Table 3]

                                                       40
                                                     Table-3
                            Component [unit]                           Distillate   Distillation Residue
   Light-boiling-point component [ppm by mass]                            182                5111
   THF [ppm by mass]                                                       29                  0
   Acetic acid [ppm by mass]                                              208               2040
   ATF [ppm by mass]                                                       53                  8
   MHPO [ppm by mass]                                                     135                 33
   OTF [ppm by mass]                                                       15                  5
   Water [mass%]                                                         0.015                 0
   GBL [ppm by mass]                                                       70                  0
   14HAB [ppm by mass]                                                      6                  0
   1,4BG [mass%]                                                          99.8               30.5
   BGTF [ppm by mass]                                                     562                  0
   2P [ppm by mass]                                                       178                260
   High-boiling-point component [mass%]                                   0.08               68.8
   Nitrogen atom [ppm by mass]                                             59               4200
   Total C 5 ,C6 cyclic carbonyl [ppm by mass]                            188                 41
   [0126]
   <Step (f): contact step of crude 1,4BG-containing solution with base>
 5             A 100 mL-volume stainless steel-made reactor was filled with 85 mL of a weakly
   basic anion exchange resin (registered trademark: DIAION, Model WA20, a styrene-based
   resin having a quaternary ammonium salt as a functional group) (hereinafter, sometimes
   simply referred to as "WA20"), and the distillate (constituents of liquid: column of "Overhead
   Distillate" in Table-2) obtained in the step (a) above was continuously passed therethrough
10 from the lower part of the reactor by an upward flow at 170 mL/hour, thereby performing a
   contact treatment.       Incidentally, at the time of contact of the anion exchange resin with the
   distillate, the temperature was 40'C, and the pressure was ordinary pressure.
               The chloride ion concentration (total chlorine concentration) and sulfide ion
   concentration (total sulfur concentration) in the distillate before contact with the anion
15 exchange resin, and the chloride ion concentration (total chlorine concentration) and sulfide
   ion concentration (total sulfur concentration) in the distillate after contact with the anion
   exchange resin, which was obtained from the reactor outlet, were measured by an ion
   chromatograph, and the results thereof are shown in Table-4.           In the Table, "WA20" indicates

                                                     41
   the above-described weakly basic anion exchange resin.
   [0127]
   [Table 4]
                                                  Table-4
                                                              Before Contact with After Contact with
   Component [unit]
                                                                     WA20                WA20
   Total sulfur concentration [ppm by mass]                            2                   1.2
   Total chlorine concentration [ppm by mass]                         0.4                  0.1
 5 [0128]
             It is seen from Table-4 that the sulfur concentration and chlorine concentration in the
   crude 1,4BG-containing solution can be reduced by the step (f).        The step (f) can reduce the
   catalyst deterioration rate of the catalyst used in the hydrogenation reaction of the next step (c)
   and can be expected to produce an effect of enhancing the catalyst life.
10 [0129]
   <Step (c): hydrogenation step of crude 1,4BG-containing solution>
   Step (c-1) hydrogenation reaction catalyst: a case of kieselguhr-supported nickel-chromium
   catalyst (continuous flow reactor)
             A stainless steel-made flow reactor having a reaction volume of 120 mL was filled
15 with 60 mL of a pellet-shaped kieselguhr-supported nickel-chromium catalyst (amount
   supported: 12 mass% of nickel, 1.5 mass% of chromium), and the crude 1,4BG-containing
   solution after contact with the anion exchange resin, which was obtained from the reactor
   outlet in the step (f), was passed therethrough at 30 mL/hour from the lower part of the reactor
   to perform a hydrogenation reaction of unsaturated compounds in the crude 1,4BG-containing
20 solution.
             Incidentally, the reactor was filled with the kieselguhr-supported nickel-chromium
   catalyst by providing, in order, a stainless steel-made filter, a glass bead layer, a catalyst layer,
   a glass bead layer and a stainless steel-made filter in the direction from the inlet to the outlet of
   the flow reactor.     The reaction conditions of the hydrogenation reaction were set to a reaction
25 temperature of 80'C and a hydrogen pressure of 2.0 MPa (gauge pressure).
             The crude 1,4BG-containing solution after the hydrogenation reaction was sampled
   with time from the reactor outlet and analyzed by gas chromatography and absorbance.            The
   results are shown in Table-5.
   [0130]

                                                     42
   [Table 5]
                                                  Table-5
                                                      Before
                                                                     After Hydrogenation  Percentage
                                                                           Reaction        Decrease
                  Component [unit]                 HydrogenationRecinDras
                                                     Reaction
   Light-boiling-point component [ppm by                 169                 981
   mass]
   THF [ppm by mass]                                     193                  193
   Acetic acid [ppm by mass]                              4                    4
   ATF [ppm by mass]                                     477                 281             41%
   MHPO [ppm by mass]                                   1044                 574             45%
   OTF [ppm by mass]                                     490                 753
   Water [mass%]                                        0.053               0.134
   GBL [ppm by mass]                                     263                 248
   14HAB [ppm by mass]                                   261                 266
   1,4BG [mass%]                                        99.3                 99.3
   BGTF [ppm by mass]                                   1455                 1339
   2P [ppm by mass]                                       0                    0
   High-boiling-point component [mass%]                 0.04                 0.05
   Absorbance                                           0.17                0.077            55%
   Total C5 ,C6 cyclic carbonyl                         1521
                                                              151855                         44%
   [ppm by mass]
   [0131]
              It is seen from Table-5 that by passing the crude 1,4BG-containing solution through
 5 the step (c), a cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 is converted
   to a corresponding alcohol by hydrogenation.        In addition, the absorbance was also reduced,
   and this reveals that the cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 is
   correlated with the coloring component for 1,4BG, particularly with the color tone b value at
   the time of PBT production, and the concentration of the coloring component can be reduced
10 by the hydrogenation reaction.
   [0132]
   Step (c-2) hydrogenation reaction catalyst: a case of silica-supported nickel catalyst (batch
   reactor)
              A stainless steel-made autoclave having a reaction volume of 100 mL was filled with

                                                      43
   2 g of a pellet-shaped silica-supported nickel catalyst (amount supported: a total of nickel and
   nickel oxide: 52 mass%), 40 g of the crude 1,4BG-containing solution resulting from contact
   with the anion exchange resin, which was obtained from the reactor outlet in the step (f), was
   placed therein, and the autoclave was then sealed at a hydrogen pressure of 0.99 MPa (gauge
 5 pressure) and shaken in an oil bath at 110'C for 4 hours.     Subsequent to the completion of
   reaction, the crude 1,4BG-containing solution after the hydrogenation reaction in the flask was
   sampled and analyzed by gas chromatography and absorbance.           The results are shown in
   Table-6.
   [0133]
10 [Table 6]
                                                   Table-6
                                            Before Hydrogenation After Hydrogenation     Percentage
                                                  Reaction             Reaction           Decrease
   Light-boiling-point component                     423                  395
   [ppm by mass]
   THF [ppm by mass]                                   0                   0
   Acetic acid [ppm by mass]                           0                   0
   ATF [ppm by mass]                                  28                   0                100%
   MHPO [ppm by mass]                                 76                  21                72%
   OTF [ppm by mass]                                  77                   56
   Water [mass%]                                    0.061                0.098
   GBL [ppm by mass]                                  34                  44
   14HAB [ppm by mass]                                29                   66
   1,4BG [mass%]                                    99.8                 99.8
   BGTF [ppm by mass]                                925                  897
   2P [ppm by mass]                                    0                   0
   High-boiling-point component                     0.02                 0.01
   [mass%]
   Absorbance                                       0.119               0.0494              59%
   Total C 5 ,C6 cyclic carbonyl
                                                     104                  21                80%~
   [ppm by mass]
   [0134]
   <Step (b): distillation separation of light-boiling-point component>
               In separating light-boiling-point components from the crude 1,4BG-containing

                                                    44
   solution that was hydrogenated in the case of step (c-1), an Oldershaw distillation column
   having 30 theoretical steps was used.     Distillation separation of light-boiling-point
   components was performed in the following three distillation condition cases.
   [0135]
 5 Step (b-1): standard distillation condition
             While setting the top pressure to 4.0 kPa and the reflux ratio to 50.0 and controlling
   the top temperature and bottom temperature to constant temperatures of 139'C and 163 C,
   respectively, the crude 1,4BG-containing solution (carbonyl valence: 1.8 mgKOH/g) that was
   hydrogenated in the case of step (c-1) was continuously introduced at the position of 20th plate
10 counted from the bottom at a flow rate of 110 mL/hour.       Continuous distillation out from the
   top part was performed at 1.3 mL/hour, and continuous withdrawal from the bottom was
   performed at 108.7 mL/hour, thereby removing light-boiling-point components in the crude
   1,4BG-containing solution.      The constituents of each of the liquid distilled out from the top
   (overhead distillate) and the bottom product from the bottom part (still bottom product) are
15 shown in Table-7.
   [0136]
   Step (b-2): enhanced condition-I for removing light-boiling-point component
             While setting the top pressure to 4.0 kPa and the reflux ratio to 50.0 and controlling
   the top temperature and bottom temperature to constant temperatures of 143 C and 164'C,
20 respectively, the crude 1,4BG-containing solution (carbonyl valence: 1.8 mgKOH/g) that was
   hydrogenated in the case of step (c-1) was continuously introduced at the position of 20th plate
   counted from the bottom at a flow rate of 110 mL/hour.       Continuous distillation out from the
   top part was performed at 5.4 mL/hour, and continuous withdrawal from the bottom was
   performed at 104.6 mL/hour, thereby removing light-boiling-point components in the crude
25 1,4BG-containing solution.      The constituents of each of the liquid distilled out from the top
   (overhead distillate) and the bottom product from the bottom part (still bottom product) are
   shown in Table-7.
   [0137]
   Step (b-3): enhanced condition-2 for removing light-boiling-point component
30           While setting the top pressure to 4.0 kPa and the reflux ratio to 50.0 and controlling
   the top temperature and bottom temperature to constant temperatures of 145 C and 165 C,
   respectively, the crude 1,4BG-containing solution (carbonyl valence: 1.8 mgKOH/g) that was
   hydrogenated in the case of step (c-1) was continuously introduced at the position of 20th plate

                                                   45
   counted from the bottom at a flow rate of 110 mL/hour.      Continuous distillation out from the
   top part was performed at 10.1 mL/hour, and continuous withdrawal from the bottom was
   performed at 100.2 mL/hour, thereby removing light-boiling-point components in the crude
   1,4BG-containing solution.     The constituents of each of the liquid distilled out from the top
 5 (overhead distillate) and the bottom product from the bottom part (still bottom product) are
   shown in Table-7.
   [0138]
   Step (b-4): high-temperature condition
             While setting the top pressure to 18.1 kPa and the reflux ratio to 50.0 and controlling
10 the top temperature and bottom temperature to constant temperatures of 178'C and 186'C,
   respectively, the crude 1,4BG-containing solution (carbonyl valence: 1.8 mgKOH/g) that was
   hydrogenated in the case of step (c-1) was continuously introduced at the position of 20th plate
   counted from the bottom at a flow rate of 105 mL/hour.      Continuous distillation out from the
   top part was performed at 10 mL/hour, and continuous withdrawal from the bottom was
15 performed at 95 mL/hour, thereby removing light-boiling-point components in the crude
   1,4BG-containing solution.     The constituents of each of the liquid distilled out from the top
   (overhead distillate) and the bottom product from the bottom part (still bottom product) are
   shown in Table-7.
   [0139]
20 [Table 7]

C-   P~      C      -.    -.            -~
~    '~1                           -~         -~
     C
     C
~~1
                                                                                       m
p~  ~<    ~         ~     2.  S         S             ''
                                                         Sp~   ~     0   ~'     C     ~
o    -
     .<                       C- ~C
                                   S    c~~C
                                             ~'                ~
                                                                5~
                                                          C~C-~C-
                                                                    '~
                                                                          S           ~
                                                                                        C
C
     C
                              p~ ~<
     C
     C
             -~C
             ~            5*~5~         ~                           ~           S S~          -.
                                                                                              ~
                    S   0                     S    ~            c'~      _      C-c,,           -~
                                             __                                 S             S         0
     0~5Q                                                                       C,,
         ''         c,~                                                                        C
    ~.   ~C      ''
             S
            C
            S                                                                                 Co
                                              tQ  ~
*
     -
     ~>
             C>
             tQ     C>
                    00
                          ~        -~
                                   \0
                                        ~
                                         ~
                                              ~           00
                                                          ~>
                                                                ~
                                                                -J   ~
                                                                          7-    -~
                                                                                        ~
                                                                                        ~
-                                                                         C>    C>                 ~
(J~  C>             ~      -J           \0    ~           ~Q   \C
                                              tQ   -                  -                ~
                                                                                                   ~-.-p~    cJ~
            -~                                                                                     C
                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                   ~
                                   -    \0
6    ~       ~
00                        ~>       -    00                -~
                                                                                                                 H
                                                                                            -      __        -   C~
                                                                                                                 ~- C>
             -~      -~   6   ~    ~    *-J   -                      \0         -~            ~
                    ~     -~       C>         \0   00     tj~   -         00    -                  -.
                                                 C>\C     ~     tQ
                                                                                                   C
                                                                                              ~-1       ~
2                         2             >0    1'
                          C>       \0   00
                                                          -~                                       C    S
                                                                                                        -~
                                   -~   \0    ~                                         -      -    -.
            C>                    C>    ~     \0   00      j~   ~    \0   ~     \0      (J~        -.   ~~1
            -                      tQ         \C  (~      ~    C>    (~   (~    C>     C>     00~
            (J~                    tQ   ~-'~  \0   tQ     cj~   ~    \0   C>                  ~         C
                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                            'C
                                                                                                   ~~1
~
tQ
     &       ~            tQ      ... ~ >0    ~
(J~                       C>            \0
                                                                                                        S
                                                                                \0
                                                                     00   \0
                                                                -
                                                   \0     4~.
            00            *        -~   \0
                                        C>    00
                                              ~                            -            -          c,~
                                  C>
                                   tQ   *     -a   ~J     C>    00    4~  00    -       ~
                                                  ~       oc   ~0    ~       -~
                                                                                                   C
                                  -     \C
                                                                                              ~-1       ~
                              ~    00
                          tQ
                                  ~     >0    -~   7 ~                                  ~
                          00       ~    ~                 -~
                                                                                                   C    -~
                                                                                                        S

                                                      47
   [0140]
              As apparent from Table-7, by performing distillation and separation of
   light-boiling-point components, a cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of
   5 or 6 can be removed from the crude 1,4BG-containing solution, and the absorbance and
 5 carbonyl valence can be reduced.
   [0141]
              In the step (d) described below, a cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom
   number of 5 or 6 is regenerated from a part of light-boiling-point components and
   high-boiling-point components in the still bottom product in Table-7 and therefore, a cyclic
10 carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6, which is not present in the still
   bottom product, is mixed in the refined 1,4BG (Table-8 to Table-12).
              Therefore, it is required not to carry over light-boiling-point components and
   high-boiling-point components into the step (d).       It is seen from Table-7 that
   light-boiling-point components in the still bottom product can be sufficiently removed by
15 increasing the amount of light-boiling-point components distilled out in the steps (b-2) and
   (b-3).    In the case of high-temperature condition, a significant increase of high-boiling-point
   components is considered to occur in the upper part of the column as well as in the top part,
   and in the distillation under high-temperature condition of the step (b-4), a higher
   concentration of high-boiling-point components remain in the still bottom product.           These
20 high-boiling-point components are assumed to be acetals, ketals and hemiacetals of the cyclic
   carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6.             Therefore, distillation
   separation of light-boiling components at a lower temperature may be preferred.
   [0142]
   <Step (d): refinement distillation of high-purity 1,4-butanediol>
25            In obtaining high-purity refined 1,4BG by distilling the crude 1,4BG-containing
   solution (the constituents of the liquid are shown in Still Bottom Product of Step (b-1) in
   Table-7) obtained in step (b-1) of the step (b) above, an Oldershaw distillation column having
   25 theoretical plates was used.      While setting the top pressure to 2.5 kPa and the reflux ratio
   to 10.0 and controlling the top temperature and bottom temperature to constant temperatures
30 of 137'C and 157'C, respectively, the crude 1,4BG-containing solution was continuously
   introduced at the position of 10th plate counted from the bottom at a flow rate of 76 mL/hour.
   At this time, a continuous operation for 55 hours was carried out by performing continuous
   distillation out from the top part at 1 mL/hour, continuous withdrawal of a side stream at 20th

                                                     48
   plate counted from the bottom at 73 mL/hour and continuous withdrawal from the bottom at 2
   mL/hour.       The constituents and absorbance of each of the overhead distillate, the side stream
   (refined 1,4BG) and the still bottom product are shown in Table-8.
   [0143]
 5 [Comparative Example 1]
               All were performed in the same manner except that in Example 1, refined 1,4BG was
   withdrawn from the top by not performing the withdrawal of a side stream in the step (d).
   The flow rate of the overhead distillate was 73 mL/hour.         The results are shown in Table-8.
   [0144]
10 [Table 8]
                                                   Table-8
                                                         Example 1                Comparative Example 1
                                                         Side Stream      Still                  Still
                 Component [unit]           Overhead
                                            Distillate
                                                           (refined
                                                            1,4BG)
                                                                      JDistillate
                                                                        Bottom
                                                                        Product
                                                                                    Overhead
                                                                                               Bottom
                                                                                               Product
   Light-boiling-point component
                                                    3340                   23          38         23
   [ppm by mass]
   THF [ppm by mass]                            17             3           15           10        15
   Acetic acid [ppm by mass]                     0             0            8           0          8
   ATF [ppm by mass]                             4             4            5           5          5
   MHPO [ppm by mass]                           12             6            3           7          3
   OTF [ppm by mass]                            92            72            7          78          7
   Water [ppm by mass]                          66            30          280          50        280
   GBL [ppm by mass]                            76            15            0          30          0
   14HAB [ppm by mass]                         337            123          13          158        13
   1,4BG [mass%]                               99.6          99.8         99.1        99.7      99.1
   BGTF [ppm by mass]                         2931           1222         255         1360       255
   2P [ppm by mass]                              0             0            0           0          0
   High-boiling-point component [mass%]         69            13          8800          15      8800
   Nitrogen atom [ppm by mass]                  17            3.2          46          3.4        46
   Total C 5 ,C6 cyclic carbonyl                16
                                                    1610                    8          12          8
   [ppm by mass]
   Absorbance                                 0.058            -            -           -
   [0145]

                                                   49
   [Example 2]
               The operation was performed in the same manner as in Example 1 except that in the
   step (d), the top temperature and bottom temperature were controlled to constant temperatures
   of 137 0 C and 158'C, respectively, the crude 1,4BG-containing solution was continuously
 5 introduced at the position of 10th plate counted from the bottom at a flow rate of 78 mL/hour,
   continuous distillation out from the top part was performed at 12 mL/hour, continuous
   withdrawal of a side stream at 20th plate counted from the bottom was performed at 64
   mL/hour, and continuous withdrawal from the bottom was performed at 2 mL/hour.            The
   constituents and absorbance of each of the overhead distillate, the side stream (refined 1,4BG)
10 and the still bottom product are shown in Table-9.
   [0146]
   [Table 9]
                                                 Table-9
                                                                       Example 2
                     Component [unit]                  Overhead         Side Strream    Still Bottom
                                                        Distillate    (refined 1,4BG)     Product
   Light-boiling-point component [ppm by mass]            353                35               44
   THF [ppm by mass]                                       16                  8              11
   Acetic acid [ppm by mass]                                0                 0                0
   ATF [ppm by mass]                                        1                  1               1
   MHPO [ppm by mass]                                       3                 3                8
   OTF [ppm by mass]                                       29                 11               0
   Water [ppm by mass]                                     58                35               36
   GBL [ppm by mass]                                       82                 18               4
   14HAB [ppm by mass]                                    323                25               13
   1,4BG [mass%]                                          99.6              99.9             98.8
   BGTF [ppm by mass]                                    2816               1123             248
   2P [ppm by mass]                                         0                 0                0
   High-boiling-point component [ppm by mass]              67                97             11711
   Nitrogen atom [ppm by mass]                              -                1.9
   Total C 5 ,C6 cyclic carbonyl [ppm by mass]              4                 4                9
   Absorbance                                               -              0.0076
   [0147]
15 [Example 3]

                                                    50
               The operation was performed in the same manner as in Example 1 except that
   distillation was performed by using the still bottom product of step (b-2) of the step (b) (the
   constituents of the liquid are shown in Still Bottom Product of Step (b-2) in Table-7) as the
   raw material of the step (d) to obtain high-purity refined 1,4BG.    The constituents and
 5 absorbance of each of the overhead distillate, the side stream (refined 1,4BG) and the still
   bottom product are shown in Table-10.
   [0148]
   [Table 10]
                                                 Table-10
                                                                       Example 3
                     Component [unit]                  Overhead      Side Stream       Still Bottom
                                                       Distillate  (refined 1,4BG)       Product
   Light-boiling-point component [ppm by mass]            318             82                 44
   THF [ppm by mass]                                       4               5                  6
   Acetic acid [ppm by mass]                               0               0                  0
   ATF [ppm by mass]                                       3               4                  3
   MHPO [ppm by mass]                                      9               2                  2
   OTF [ppm by mass]                                       39              9                  0
   Water [ppm by mass]                                    218             65                216
   GBL [ppm by mass]                                      48               16                 2
   14HAB [ppm by mass]                                    312             22                 13
   1,4BG [mass%]                                         99.7            99.8               98.6
   BGTF [ppm by mass]                                    2619            1110               220
   2P [ppm by mass]                                        0               0                  0
   High-boiling-point component [ppm by mass]              90             24               14028
   Nitrogen atom [ppm by mass]                              -              1
   Total C 5 ,C6 cyclic carbonyl [ppm by mass]             12              6                  5
   Absorbance                                               -           0.0104
10 [0149]
   [Example 4]
               The operation was performed in the same manner as in Example 1 except that
   distillation was performed by using the still bottom product of step (b-3) of the step (b) (the
   constituents of the liquid are shown in Still Bottom Product of Step (b-3) in Table-7) as the
15 raw material of the step (d) to obtain high-purity refined 1,4BG.    The constituents of each of

                                                      51
   the overhead distillate, the side stream (refined 1,4BG) and the still bottom product are shown
   in Table-11.
   [0150]
   [Table 11]
 5                                                Table-1I
                                                                          Example 4
                    Component [unit]                    Overhead         Side Stream        Still Bottom
                                                         Distillate    (refined 1,4BG)        Product
   Light-boiling-point component [ppm by mass]              318               12                  65
   THF [ppm by mass]                                         13                3                   2
   Acetic acid [ppm by mass]                                  0                0                   0
   ATF [ppm by mass]                                          7                1                   1
   MHPO [ppm by mass]                                        2                 1                   2
   OTF [ppm by mass]                                        114                6                   0
   Water [ppm by mass]                                      156               32                  45
   GBL [ppm by mass]                                        225                1                   2
   14HAB [ppm by mass]                                      210               26                   5
   1,4BG [mass%]                                           99.4              99.9                98.6
   BGTF [ppm by mass]                                      2540              1100                223
   2P [ppm by mass]                                           0                0                   0
   High-boiling-point component [ppm by mass]                34               21                13552
   Nitrogen atom [ppm by mass]                                -                1
   Total C 5 ,C6 cyclic carbonyl [ppm by mass]                9                2                   3
   Absorbance                                             0.0227            0.0053
   [0151]
   [Reference Example 1]
               650 g of the still bottom product of step (b-3) of the step (b) (the constituents of the
   liquid are shown in Still Bottom Product of Step (b-3) in Table-7) was used as the raw material
10 of the step (d), and the distillate was separated into a plurality of fractions by batch distillation
   under the condition of a top pressure of 0 to 0.9 kPa to obtain 3 lots of refined 1,4-butanediol.
   Of these lots, the constituents of the initially-obtained lot (Fr. 1, 147 g) are shown in Table-12.
   [0152]
   [Table 12]
15                                                Table-12

                                                        52
                                                                         Reference Example 1
                              Component [unit]
                                                                             Fr. 1 Distillate
   Light-boiling-point component [ppm by mass]                                     191
   THF [ppm by mass]                                                                 7
   Acetic acid [ppm by mass]                                                         0
   ATF [ppm by mass]                                                                 6
   MHPO [ppm by mass]                                                                7
   OTF [ppm by mass]                                                                85
   Water [mass%]                                                                   225
   GBL [ppm by mass]                                                               175
   14HAB [ppm by mass]                                                              89
   1,4BG [mass%]                                                                  99.7
   BGTF [ppm by mass]                                                             2134
   2P [ppm by mass]                                                                  0
   High-boiling-point component [ppm by mass]                                       32
   Nitrogen atom [ppm by mass]                                                     3.5
   Total C 5 ,C6 cyclic carbonyl [ppm by mass]                                      13
   [0153]
   [Production of PBT]
               In the production of PBT below, various analyses were performed by the following
   methods.
 5 [0154]
   <Analysis of THF, Water>
               A distillate in an esterification reaction was determined for water amount by the Karl
   Fisher's method (measured by "CA-03", manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation),
   and the rest except for water was regarded as organic components.          The THF amount in the
10 organic components was determined by the above-described gas chromatography method and
   taken as the THF production volume.           The THF production volume was expressed by mol%
   relative to terephthalic acid, and the obtained value was taken as the conversion ratio.
   [0155]
   <Intrinsic Viscosity (IV) of PBT>
15             The intrinsic viscosity was determined using an Ubbelohde viscometer by the
   following procedure.        That is, using a mixed solvent of phenol/tetrachloroethane (mass ratio:
   1/1), the falling time in seconds was measured at 30'C on a PBT solution having a

                                                    53
   concentration of 1.0 g/dL and on only the solvent, and the viscosity was determined according
   to the following formula:
                       IV=[(1+4KHTl sp) 5 -1 ]/(2KHC)
   wherein flsp=(l/o)-1, q is the falling time in seconds of the PBT solution, no is the falling
 5 time in seconds of the solvent, C represents the PBT concentration (g/dL) of the PBT solution,
   and  KH  is the Huggins' constant.   A value of 0.33 was adopted for   KH.
   [0156]
   <Terminal Carboxyl Group Concentration (equivalent/ton) of PBT>
              0.5 g of PBT was dissolved in 25 mL of benzyl alcohol, the resulting solution was
10 titrated using a 0.01 mol/L benzyl alcohol solution of sodium hydroxide, and the concentration
   was calculated according to the following formula:
              Terminal carboxyl group concentration    = (A-B)x0. 1 xf/W (equivalent/ton)
   wherein A is the amount (pL) of the benzyl alcohol solution of 0.01 N sodium hydroxide
   required for titration, B is the amount (pL) of the benzyl alcohol solution of 0.01 mol/L
15 sodium hydroxide required for titration of the blank, W is the amount (g) of the PBT sample,
   and f is the factor of the 0.01 mol/L sodium hydroxide
   [0157]
   <Color Tone b Value>
             A columnar powder measurement cell having an inner diameter of 30 mm and a depth
20 of 12 mm was filled with pellet-shaped PBT.        Using a colorimeter, Color Meter ZE2000
   (manufactured by Nippon Denshoku Industries Co., Ltd.), the color was measured in four
   places by the reflection method while rotating the measurement cell at every 90', and the
   value was determined as a simple average value of the values obtained.       The color tone was
   evaluated by the b value in the L, a, b color system.    A lower value indicates that the color
25 tone is better with less yellowing.
   [0158]
   [Production Example 2]
             PBT was produced by the following method using, as 1,4BG, the refined 1,4BG (the
   constituents of the liquid are shown in Side Stream of Example 1 in Table-8) obtained in
30 Example 1.
             A reaction vessel equipped with a stirring device, a nitrogen inlet, a heating device, a
   thermometer, a distillation tube and an exhaust port for evacuation was charged with 113 g of
   terephthalic acid, 183 g of 1,4BG and 0.7 g of a 1,4BG solution having previously dissolved

                                                    54
   therein 6 mass% of tetrabutyl titanate as a catalyst, and a nitrogen atmosphere was created
   inside the system by nitrogen-vacuum purging.
             After warming the inside of the system to 150'C with stirring, the temperature was
   raised to 220'C over 1 hour under atmospheric pressure, and an esterification reaction was
 5 further performed for 2 hours while distilling out water produced.
             Subsequently, 1.3 g of a 1,4BG solution of 1 mass% magnesium acetate tetrahydrate,
   obtained by dissolving magnesium acetate tetrahydrate in water and further dissolving the
   resulting solution in 1,4BG (mass ratio of magnesium acetate tetrahydrate, water and 1,4BG:
   1:2:97), was added.
10           Thereafter, the temperature was held at 220'C for 0.25 hours and then held until
   245'C over 0.75 hours.      On the other hand, the pressure was reduced to 0.07 kPa over 1.5
   hours from the initiation of polymerization, and a polycondensation reaction was performed
   for 0.8 hours under the same reduced pressure.      The reaction system was returned to ordinary
   pressure to thereby complete the polycondensation.       The obtained PBT was withdrawn as a
15 strand from the bottom part of the reaction tank and passed under water at 10 C, and the strand
   was cult by a cutter to obtain pellet-shaped PBT.
             The period from the initiation of pressure reduction after the addition of magnesium
   acetate to the completion of polycondensation was taken as the polycondensation time, and the
   intrinsic viscosity/polycondensation time was defined as the polycondensation rate.     The
20 polycondensation rate was 0.37 dL/g/hour.       As for the THF conversion ratio, the THF amount
   was analyzed on a sample obtained by cooling and collecting a distillate during the
   esterification reaction by a dry ice trap, and the obtained value was expressed by mol% per
   terephthalic acid charged and found to be 57.0 mol%.       The color tone b value of PBT was
   2.7.
25 [0159]
   [Production Example 3]
             PBT was produced by utterly the same method except that in Production Example 2,
   the refined 1,4BG obtained in Example 2 (the constituents are shown in Side Stream in
   Table-9) was used in place of the refined 1,4BG obtained in Example 1. The color tone b
30 value of the obtained PBT was 2.2.
   [0160]
   [Production Example 4]
             PBT was produced by utterly the same method except that in Production Example 2,

                                                     55
   the refined 1,4BG obtained in Example 3 (the constituents are shown in Side Stream in
   Table- 10) was used in place of the refined 1,4BG obtained in Example 1.       The color tone b
   value of the obtained PBT was 1.7.
   [0161]
 5 [Production Example 5]
             PBT was produced by utterly the same method except that in Production Example 2,
   the refined 1,4BG obtained in Example 4 (the constituents are shown in Side Stream in
   Table-11) was used in place of the refined 1,4BG obtained in Example 1.        The color tone b
   value of the obtained PBT was 1.6.
10 [0162]
   [Production Example 6]
             PBT was produced by utterly the same method except that in Production Example 2,
   the refined 1,4BG obtained in Comparative Example 1 (the constituents are shown in
   Overhead Distillate of Comparative Example 1 in Table-8) was used in place of the refined
15 1,4BG obtained in Example 1.       The color tone b value of the obtained PBT was 3.0.
   [0163]
   [Production Example 7]
             PBT was produced by utterly the same method except that in Production Example 2,
   the refined 1,4BG obtained in Reference Example 1 (the constituents are shown in Fr. 1
20 Distillate of Reference Example 1 in Table-12) was used in place of the refined 1,4BG
   obtained in Example 1.      The color tone b value of the obtained PBT was 4.9.
   [0164]
             The results of various analyses of Production Examples 2 to 7 are all shown in
   Table-13 together with the constituents of the refined 1,4BG used.      Also, Figs. 2 and 3 show,
25 respectively, the relationship of the total C5 ,C6 cyclic carbonyl concentration in the raw
   material 1,4BG with the color tone b value at the time of production of PBT obtained and the
   relationship with the polycondensation rate.
   [0165]
   [Table 13]

                                                 56
                                             Table- 13
                               Production Production Production Production Production Production
                               Example 2 Example 3 Example 4 Example 5 Example 6 Example 7
           Kind                Example 1 Example 2 Example 3 Example 4Comparative Reference
                                                                           Example 1 Example 1
           Nitrogen atom
                                   3.2        1.9         1          1         3.4        3.5
           [ppm by mass]
           ATF [ppm by mass]        4          1         4           1          5          6
           MHPO [ppm by
                                    6          3         2           1          7          7
    Raw    mass]
 material Total C5 ,C6 cyclic
   1,4BG   carbonyl                10          4          6          2         12          13
           [ppm by mass]
           1,4BG Purity [%]       99.8       99.9       99.8       99.9       99.7       99.7
           BGTF[ppmby             1222       1123       1110       1100       1360       2134
           mass]
           14HAB[ppmby            123         25         22         26        158         89
           mass]
           Conversion ratio to
                                  57.0       61.1       67.4       70.6       60.5       59.1
           THF [%]
    PBT    Polycondensation        2.3        2.3       2.3         2.3       2.3         2.4
           time [hr]
Production
conditions Polycondensation       0.37       0.38       0.38       0.37       0.37       0.35
           rate [dL/g/hr]
           Intrinsic viscosity
                                  0.84       0.87       0.87       0.85       0.84       0.83
           [dL/g]
           Color tone b value      2.7        2.2        1.7        1.6        3.0        4.9
 Physical Terminal carboxyl
properties group
                                    5          7          8          7          5          4
  of PBT   concentration
           (equivalent/ton)

                                                     57
   [0166]
            It could be confirmed from Table-13 and Fig. 2 that when the total C5 ,C6 cyclic
   carbonyl concentration (total concentration of cyclic carbonyl compounds having a carbon
   atom number of 5 or 6) in the raw material 1,4-BG is 13 ppm, the color tone b value of PBT
 5 greatly increases.    That is, removal of these cyclic carbonyl compounds having a carbon atom
   number of 5 or 6 is important for the production of PBT with good color tone.
            It is seen from Fig. 3 that as the total C5 ,C6 cyclic carbonyl concentration (total
   concentration of cyclic carbonyl compounds having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6) in the
   raw material 1,4-BG is lower, the polycondensation rate (dL/g/hour) is more improved.
10 [0167]
   [Examples 5 to 7]
             The same experiment as in Production Example 1 was performed three times, and
   dehydration distillation was conducted each time, whereby 3 lots of refined raw material
   1,4BG-containing solution were produced (in Table-14, shown as "Crude 1,4BG).            In each
15 Example, refinement was performed in the same manner as in Example 1 except for using the
   3 lots above as the raw material.    The change in each of carbonyl valence and absorbance
   among respective steps and the color tone of PBT produced in the same manner as in
   Production Example 2 by using the refined 1,4BG as the raw material are shown in Table-14.
   [0168]
20 [Table 14]

                                                           58
                                                       Table- 14
                                                                  Example 5         Example 6   Example 7
                                                                    Lot 1 of          Lot 2 of   Lot 3 of
                       Lot No. of rude 1,4BG
                                                                Crude 1,4BG      Crude 1,4BG   Crude 1,4BG
                       Crude 1,4BG (before dehydration)                1.68              1.97      2.51
                       Crude 1,4BG (after dehydration)                 1.47              1.53      2.12
                       After separation of high-boiling
       Carbonyl                                                        1.80              1.92      2.35
                       component (step (a))
      valence of                                               _______           _______
        1,4BG          After hydrogenation (step (c))                  0.69              1.01      1.13
        1,4BG                                                  __________
     (mg-KOH/g)        After separation of light-boiling               0.05              0.13      0.14
                       component (step (b))
                       After final refinement distillation
                                                                       0.04              0.06      0.07
                       (step (d))
                       Crude 14BG (before dehydration)                 1.50              1.50      3.89
                       Crude 14BG (after dehydration)                  2.71               <5       3.64
                       After separation of high-boiling                3.30              3.34
                                                                             3.303.340.99
                       component (step (a))
        ob1,4B         After hydrogenation (step (c))                  1.07              1.29      0.72
       of 1,4BG                                                ____________
                       After separation of light-boiling
                                                                       0.55              0.64      0.56
                       component (step (b))
                       After final refinement distillation
                                                                       0.09              0.09      0.12
                       (step (d))
   Color tone b value of PBT                                            1.9               2.1       2.6
   [0169]
             It is seen from Table-14 that the carbonyl valence of the refined 1,4BG can be
 5 reduced by reducing the carbonyl valence of the crude 1,4BG and the color tone b value of the
   obtained PBT can be kept in a proper range by using a refined 1,4BG having a low carbonyl
   valence.     It is also seen that the carbonyl valence of 1,4BG can be reduced by hydrogenation
   or distillation refinement.       Furthermore, it is understood that when the carbonyl valence of
   1,4BG is reduced, the UV absorbance indicative of coloring of 1,4BG can also be reduced.
10 [0170]
   [Distillation Experiment of Distillation Column of Step (a)]
   [Reference Example 2]

                                                      59
              In the bottom region of the Oldershaw distillation column of the step (a) of Example
   1, fouling sometimes proceeds due to precipitation of a solid matter.      To avoid this problem,
   it is preferable to perform the distillation at a relatively low temperature of about 145'C or not
   to heat the gas-phase part in the bottom that is a heating region.    Specifically, the liquid level
 5 of the oil bath used as the heating source of the distillation column may be kept at a position
   lower than the liquid level of the bottom liquid pooling in the bottom part of the distillation
   column.      On the other hand, as to heating of the gas-phase part, which promotes precipitation
   of a solid matter, for example, the liquid level of the oil bath may be kept higher than the
   bottom liquid pooling in the bottom part of the distillation column so as to keep, in addition to
10 the bottom liquid, the wall temperature of the gas-phase part in the bottom part at a
   temperature close to that of the heating source.
              In the following, a distillation experiment was performed in three cases, a case where
   the gas-phase part is heated at a high temperature (245'C) by changing the position of the
   liquid level of an oil bath as a heating source in the bottom part of the distillation column of
15 the step (a) of Example 1, a case where the gas-phase part is heated under the low temperature
   condition of 145 C, and a case where heating is performed at a high temperature (245'C) but
   the gas-phase part is not heated.      The results are shown in Table-15.   Incidentally, the liquid
   introduced is the refined raw material 1,4BG-containing solution having the constituents
   shown in Table-1.
20 [0171]
   [Table 15]

                                                       60
                                                    Table- 15
                                                        High-               High
                                                     Temperature        Temperature            Low
                                         Unit        Distillation,       Distillation,     Temperature
                                                  gas-phase part was gas-phase part was     Distillation
                                                      not heated           heated
   Heating source temperature of
                                           C             245                 245                190
   distillation column
   Bottom temperature of distillation
                                           C              184                184                145
   column
   Operation time                         hr             210                  55                55
   Amount of solid matter
                                          mg              0.2                 17                0.1
   precipitated
   Cumulative amount of 1,4BG
                                           g            17.534              4.592             4.592
   processed
   Amount of solid matter
                                       ppm by
   precipitated/amount of 1,4BG                          0.01                  4               0.02
                                         mass
   processed
   [0172]
              As apparent from Table-15, compared with a case where the gas-phase part is heated
 5 at a high temperature, the amount of a solid matter precipitated can be greatly reduced by
   creating a low-temperature condition of 145 0 C or the like or a condition where the gas-phase
   part is not heated despite high temperature.
              Incidentally, as for the distillation column of the step (a) in the process on an
   industrial scale, in order not to heat the gas-phase part, it is preferable to use, as the heating
10 source, a forced circulation reboiler or a falling film reboiler.     Above all, a force circulation
   reboiler is more preferred, because the liquid phase can be more completely held by using a
   back pressure valve at the outlet of the heat exchanger and thereby increasing the pressure
   inside of the heat exchanger.
   [0173]
15 [Hydrogenation Reaction of Chlorine-Containing Solution]
   [Reference Example 3]
              In 1,4BG produced by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, 10 mass% of

                                                    61
   1,4-dihydroxy-2-butene that is a reagent produced by TCI, was dissolved.        In the resulting
   solution, the total chlorine concentration was 79 ppm by mass, and the total sulfur
   concentration was 0.1 ppm by mass.       A hydrogenation experiment was performed using this
   solution under the same reaction conditions as in step (c-1) of Example 1 except that the
 5 reaction temperature was set to 100 C and the hydrogen pressure was set to 3.5 MPa (gauge
   pressure), as a result, very rapid progress of catalyst deterioration was confirmed as shown in
   Table-16 (no WA20 treatment).
             On the other hand, a solution obtained by subjecting the solution having a total
   chlorine concentration of 79 ppm by mass and a total sulfur concentration of 0.1 ppm by mass
10 to a treatment with an anion exchange resin (WA20) corresponding to the step (f) under the
   conditions that the amount of ion exchange resin used was 300 mL, the treatment flow rate
   was 215 g/hour and the contact temperature was 550 C, came to have a total chlorine
   concentration of 0.1 ppm by mass and a total sulfur concentration < 0.1 ppm by mass (below
   the detection limit), and a hydrogenation experiment was performed on this treated solution
15 under the same hydrogenation conditions as above.        Then, catalyst deterioration was not
   confirmed as shown in Table-16 (treated with WA20).
             The Ni concentration in liquid in the course of flow evaluation was analyzed and
   compared by ICP-OES, as a result, in the solution treated with WA20, the Ni concentration in
   liquid was below the detection limit even after the reaction, but in the solution not treated with
20 WA20, an Ni concentration of 5 ppm by mass was detected.
             In Solution Before Hydrogenation Reaction of Table-5, the chlorine concentration is
   about 0.4 ppm by masse, but considering a long-term operation, it is understood that in
   addition to an anion exchange resin such as WA20, a solid base or soluble bases such as
   various amines, elution of a catalyst component by an acid is preferably avoided.
25 [0174]
   [Table 16]

                                                         62
                                                     Table-16
                          Cumulative                                                              Ni Elution
      Conditions        Reaction Time       Conversion Ratio of           Selectivity Ratio of Concentration
                                        1,4-Dihydroxy-2-Butene (%) 1,4-Butanediol (%)
                              22                     98.7                         99.5
                              94                     98.8                         99.6               <0.5
     Treated with            118                     98.9                         99.6
         WA20                143                     98.7                         99.6
                             166                     98.8                         99.6
                             190                     98.8                         99.5               <0.5
                              18                     99.7                         83.7
                              42                     99.4                         78.2
           N A 2 0-------
           Wo--------         66                     99.0
                                       ----------------------------- ---   ------ 79.3
                                                                                   --------             --------------
                                                                                              ----------------
                              90                     97.9                         77.4
                             162                     96.9                         79.3                 5
       treatment
                             186                     96.3                         79.2
                             210                     95.4                         81.4
                             258                     93.9                         83.5
                             329      j92.0                              1        74.6
   [0175]
   [Side Stream Effect of Fossilization Process]
 5 [Reference Example 4]
              Butadiene, acetic acid and oxygen were continuously reacted at a pressure of 6 MPa
   and a temperature of 60 to 99'C in the presence of a catalyst containing palladium and
   tellurium supported on silica.       As the oxygen, air diluted with nitrogen (oxygen
   concentration: 21 vol%) was used.          Acetic acid and high-boiling matters were removed by
10 distilling the reaction solution to obtain a reaction product mainly composed of
   diacetoxybutene.
              This reaction product was continuously fed together with hydrogen to a front-stage
   hydrogenation reactor filled with a catalyst containing palladium supported on activated
   carbon and a rear-stage reactor filled with a catalyst containing ruthenium supported on silica,
15 thereby effecting hydrogenation.         The front-stage hydrogenation reaction of saturating a
   carbon-carbon double bond was performed at a pressure of 2 MPa and a temperature of 40 to

                                                    63
   70'C, and the rear-stage hydrogenation reaction of causing hydrogenation of an aldehyde
   group or hydrogenolysis of an acetal compound was performed at a pressure of 2 MPa and a
   temperature of 90 to 110 C.
              The hydrogenated reaction product obtained above was passed as a mixed solution
 5 with water at 40 to 60'C through a hydrolysis reactor filled with DIAION SKIB (a product of
   Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, sulfonic acid-type cation exchange resin, DIAION is a
   registered trademark of the same company) to undergo a hydrolysis reaction.         The obtained
   hydrolysis reaction solution was continuously distilled at a bottom temperature of 158'C and a
   top pressure of 15 kPa to distill out water and acetic acid from the top and obtain a bottom
10 liquid from the bottom.      The bottom liquid was continuously distilled at a bottom temperature
   of 191'C, a top pressure of 21 kPa and a reflux ratio of 30 by using a distillation column
   having a number of theoretical plates of 100 and thereby divided into three streams of
   overhead liquid, side stream, and bottom liquid.
   [0176]
15            The bottom stream obtained above was continuously fed together with hydrogen at a
   pressure of 0.9 MPa and a temperature of 100'C to a reactor filled with a catalyst containing
   palladium supported on activated carbon to perform hydrogenolysis of an acetal compound
   and the like.    The resulting reaction solution was continuously distilled at a bottom
   temperature of 181 'C, a top pressure of 20 kPa and a reflux ratio of 0.62 by using a distillation
20 column having a number of theoretical plates of 10 (=second distillation).
              The reaction product was fed to 3rd plate counted from the top, water and
   tetrahydrofuran were distilled out from the top, and a bottom liquid containing 1,4-butanediol
   and high-boiling-point matters was obtained from the bottom.        This bottom liquid was then
   continuously distilled at a bottom temperature of 160'C, a top pressure of 5.7 kPa and a reflux
25 ratio of 0.65 by using a packed column having a number of theoretical plates of 20 (=third
   distillation).
              The bottom liquid was fed to 12th plate counted from the top, 1,4-butanediol was
   distilled out from the top, and high-boiling-point maters were flowed out as a mixture with
   1,4-butanediol from the bottom.       The weight ratio of the overhead distillate and the bottom
30 distillate was 98:2.   The 1,4-butanediol obtained above was continuously fed to 9th plate
   counted from the top of a packed column having a number of theoretical plates of 20 and
   distilled at a bottom temperature of 160'C, a top pressure of 5.7 kPa and a reflux ratio of 63,
   1,4-butanediol containing 1,4-butanediol monoacetate was distilled out from the top,

                                                    64
   high-purity refined 1,4-butanediol was obtained as the product from the side stream, and
   1,4-butanediol containing high-boiling-point components was withdrawn from the bottom
   (=fourth distillation).   The weight ratio of the overhead distillate and the side stream was
   1:99.
 5 [0177]
   [Reference Example 5]
             PBT was produced by utterly the same method except that in Production Example 2,
   the refined 1,4BG (side stream) obtained in Reference Example 4 was used in place of the
   refined 1,4BG obtained in Example 1.       The color tone b value of the obtained PBT was 1.4.
10 [0178]
   [Reference Example 6]
             PBT was produced by utterly the same method except that in Production Example 2,
   1,4BG obtained by adding 1% of the top liquid in the fourth distillation to the refined 1,4BG
   (side stream) obtained in Reference Example 4 was used in place of the refined 1,4BG
15 obtained in Example 1.      The color tone b value of the obtained PBT was 2.0.
   [0179]
             It is seen from Reference Examples 5 and 6 and Examples above that even in the
   production of 1,4BG by a bio-process, a PBT color tone at a level equivalent to that in the
   fossilization process can be achieved by withdrawing a side stream.
20 [0180]
             While the invention has been described in detail and with reference to specific
   embodiments thereof, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and
   modifications can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the
   invention.     This application is based on Japanese Patent Application (Patent Application No.
25 2012-128065) filed on June 5, 2012 and Japanese Patent Application (Patent Application No.
   2013-037301) filed on February 27, 2013, the contents of which are incorporated herein by
   way of reference.
            This application is a divisional application from Australian application 2013272715.
   The full disclosure of AU2013272715 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                                      65
                                                   CLAIMS
   [Claim 1]
              A method for producing 1,4-butanediol, comprising biologically producing
 5 1,4-butanediol in a culture medium for fermentation of an organism capable of producing
   1,4-butanediol, at least partially removing each of a bacterial cell, a salt content and water
   from said fermentation culture medium to obtain a refined raw material
   1,4-butanediol-containing solution, obtaining therefrom a crude 1,4-butanediol-containing
   solution through any one or more steps of the following steps (a) to (c), refining said crude
10 1,4-butanediol-containing solution through the following step (d) to obtain refined
   1,4-butanediol:
   Step (a):
              a step of distilling said refined raw material 1,4-butanediol-containing solution in a
   distillation column to remove components which are contained in said refined raw material
15 1,4-butanediol-containing solution and higher in the boiling point than 1,4-butanediol;
   Step (b):
              a step of distilling said refined raw material 1,4-butanediol-containing solution in a
   distillation column to remove components which are contained in said refined raw material
   1,4-butanediol-containing solution and lighter in the boiling point than 1,4-butanediol;
20 Step (c):
              a hydrogenation step of at least partially converting unsaturated compounds contained
   in said refined raw material 1,4-butanediol-containing solution into a hydride; and
   Step (d):
              a step of distilling said crude 1,4-butanediol-containing solution in a distillation
25 column and withdrawing refined 1,4-butanediol from a side stream.
   [Claim 2]
              The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
   concentration of a cyclic carbonyl compound having a carbon atom number of 5 or 6 in the
   refined 1,4-butanediol obtained in said step (d) is 12 ppm by mass or less.
30 [Claim 3]
              The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as claimed in claim 1 or 2, which is a
   method for producing 1,4-butanediol through at least the step (a) out of said steps (a) to (c)
   and further passes through the following step (e):

                                                      66
   Step (e):
              a step of distilling components higher in the boiling point than 1,4-butanediol, which
   are separated in said step (a), in a distillation column and thereby separating and recovering
   1,4-butanediol.
 5 [Claim 4]
              The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3,
   which is a method for producing 1,4-butanediol through at least the step (c) out of said steps
   (a) to (c), wherein the refined raw material 1,4-butanediol-containing solution after passing
   through the following step (f) is introduced into said step (c):
10 Step (f):
              a step of brining said refined raw material 1,4-butanediol-containing solution into
   contact with a base.
   [Claim 5]
              The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4,
15 wherein the water concentration in the refined raw material 1,4-butanediol-containing solution
   immediately before passing through any one step of said steps (a) to (c) or through the step (f)
   is from 0.01 to 20 mass% and the pH thereof is 5 or more.
   [Claim 6]
              The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5,
20 wherein in the hydrogenation step of said step (c), hydrogenation is performed using a solid
   catalyst having a nickel-containing metal supported on at least either kieselguhr or silica.
   [Claim 7]
              The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6,
   wherein the base in said step (f) is a solid base.
25 [Claim 8]
              The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7,
   wherein the components lighter in the boiling point than 1,4-butanediol in said step (b) contain
   1-acetoxy-4-hydroxybutane and the 1-acetoxy-4-hydroxybutane concentration in the crude
   1,4-butanediol-containing solution after the removal of said components lighter in the boiling
30 point than 1,4-butanediol is from 0.1 to 50 ppm by mass.
   [Claim 9]
              The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8,
   wherein the bottom temperature of the distillation column in said step (b) is from 120 to

                                                      67
   2000 C.
   [Claim 10]
             The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9,
   wherein the bottom temperature of the distillation column in said step (a) is from 150 to
 5 2000 C.
   [Claim 11]
             The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10,
   wherein the components higher in the boiling point than 1,4-butanediol in said step (a) contain
   2-pyrrolidone and the 2-pyrrolidone concentration in the crude 1,4-butanediol-containing
10 solution after the removal of said components higher in the boiling point than 1,4-butanediol is
   20 ppm by mass or less.
   [Claim 12]
             The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11,
   wherein a heating source of the distillation column in said step (a) contacts substantially only
15 with the bottom liquid but involves no contact with a gas-phase part.
   [Claim 13]
             The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as claimed in any one of claims I to 12,
   wherein the gamma-butyrolactone concentration in the overhead distillate of the distillation
   column in said step (d) is higher than the gamma-butyrolactone concentration in the refined
20 1,4-butanediol withdrawn from a side stream.
   [Claim 14]
             The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13,
   comprising a step of controlling the carbonyl valence in the refined raw material
   1,4-butanediol-containing solution immediately before passing through any one step of said
25 steps (a) to (c) or through the step (f), to be 2.5 mgKOH/g or less.
   [Claim 15]
             The method for producing 1,4-butanediol as claimed in any one of claims I to 14,
   wherein in at least one step of said steps (b) to (d), the carbonyl valence in said refined raw
   material 1,4-butanediol-containing solution is reduced.
30

                            1/3
                           Fig. 1
       REFINED RAW                  REF
       MATERIAL                     1,4B
       1,4BG-CONTAINING
       SOLUTION
<removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                                                               2/3
                                                             Fig. 2
                        NE b VALUE OF PBT
                COLOR TONE
                                            TOTAL C5,C6 CYCLIC CARBONYL CONCENTRATION IN
                                            RAW MATERIAL 1,4BG (ppm by mass)
<removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                                                       3/3
                                                     Fig. 3
                     NDENSATION RATE,
               POLYCONDE
                      dL/g/hour
                      dL
                                        TOTAL C5,C6 CYCLIC CARBONYL CONCENTRATION
                                            IN RAW MATERIAL 1,4BG (ppm by mass)
<removed-date>   <removed-apn>

