                                              ABSTRACT
      The invention relates to a movable spliced tunnel negative-pressure self-cold-suction miniature
granary. The miniature granary is a cuboid granary formed by sealing and encircling four sides of
granary boards. An upper cover seals and covers an upper part of the granary. A plurality of
negative-pressure ventilators are mounted at an outer part on one side of one long granary board in
the granary boards. Air inlets of the ventilators penetrate through the granary boards to extend to the
granary and are communicated by virtue of a detachable horizontal ventilating pipe. A plurality of
vertical air inlet pipes parallel to one another are communicated and mounted on an upper arm of
the horizontal ventilating pipe. A negative-pressure air inlet is formed in an outer side of another
long granary board in a position corresponding to the ventilators,. The invention innovates a
technical    system   with   functions   of realizing    tunnel  differential  pressure  cooling   and
dehumidification at an earlier stage and realizing spontaneous air-conditioned moisturizing, insect
prevention, mildew prevention, aging prevention, rat prevention and loss prevention at middle-late
stages. A body of the miniature granary is composed of a plurality of pinch plate type granary board
modules, is convenient and portable in assembly, disassembly and movement, and is applied to
farmers and grain processing enterprises.

          1/3
10 \9\8 7          6
            FIG. 1

            MOVABLE SPLICED TUNNEL NEGATIVE-PRESSURE
                 SELF-COLD-SUCTION MINIATURE GRANARY
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]    The invention belongs to the technical field of food freshness preservation, and particularly
relates to a movable spliced tunnel negative-pressure self-cold-suction miniature granary.
BACKGROUND
[0002]    "Full granary means global peace". Grain collection and storage, quality preservation and
consumption reduction are vital to national well-being and the people's livelihood as well as social
stability. At present, grain storage loss of China reaches 35 million tons per year and is more than 6
times that of annual new yield of the grains. Particularly, the loss of grain storage of farmers reaches
20%-30% due to lack of portable energy-conservation storage facilities and equipment and storage
technologies, causing poor storage quality. However, storage of the farmers is an important
component of a state grain reserve system and is a grain source of the state treasury and a green
storing and processing source of grain. A grain storage effect is directly related to grain collection
and storage quality. Six problems of mildew prevention, fog (moisture) prevention, insect
prevention, aging prevention, rat prevention and loss prevention exist in the grain storage process of
the farmers, while integrated storage facilities and equipment and storage technologies regarding
the six problems are severely lacked.
[0003]    A mildew-proof grain-storing granary is disclosed in CN104620785A. The granary
includes a granary body, a granary base and a granary cover. The granary base is connected below
the granary body. The granary cover is arranged above the granary body. The granary body is
composed of granary upright posts, granary body iron nets and granary iron sheets. The granary
upright posts form a frame structure of the granary. The granary body iron nets are arranged on
inner circumferences of the granary upright posts. The granary iron sheets are arranged on outer
circumferences of the granary upright posts. A ventilated cylinder base is arranged on the granary
base. A lower end of a ventilated cylinder is connected with the ventilated cylinder base, and an
upper end of the ventilated cylinder is flush with an upper end of the granary body. The ventilated
cylinder is composed of a ventilated cylinder frame and a ventilated cylinder iron net. A vent hole is
formed in the granary base in a position corresponding to the ventilated cylinder. A grain
discharging hole and a granary bottom iron net are arranged on the granary base. Granary cover
supporting posts are arranged on the granary cover and fixed between the granary body iron nets
and the granary iron sheets. A granary cover exhaust fan is arranged at an upper end of the granary
                                                    1

cover. The granary created in the invention is excellent in air permeability, so the granary is not
mildewed.
[0004]    A mildew-proof and insect-resistant apparatus and a granary formed by the apparatus are
disclosed in CN203872868U. The mildew-proof and insect-resistant apparatus is composed of a
medicine box, a diffusion tube and diffusion tube pores. The medicine box can contain different
types of medicine and has wide adaptability and good motility. The pores are distributed on two
sides of the diffusion tube. The mildew-proof and insect-resistant granary comprises the
mildew-proof and insect-resistant apparatus, a granary body and a granary cover. The mildew-proof
and insect-resistant apparatus is put in a middle or bottom of a grain-storing granary, so that the
medicine in the medicine box is uniformly diffused into the whole granary in time. The invention is
simple in structure, is directly used together with an existing grain-storing granary, is low in cost
and convenient in use, has mildew-proof and insect-resistant functions and may help ventilation and
heat dissipation of the granary.
[0005]    The invention overcomes mildew prevention and insect prevention problems as well as a
constant humidity problem in the prior art, and also solves the constant humidity problem.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]    A purpose of the invention is to overcome defects in the prior art and provide a movable
spliced tunnel negative-pressure self-cold-suction miniature granary with novel structure and
excellent mildew prevention, insect prevention and aging prevention effects.
[0007]    A technical solution of the invention for achieving the purpose is as follows:
[0008]    A movable spliced tunnel negative-pressure self-cold-suction miniature granary comprises
a cuboid granary formed by sealing and encircling four sides of granary boards. An upper cover
seals and covers an upper part of the granary; a sealed grain inlet is formed in a top of the upper
cover; a plurality of negative-pressure ventilators are mounted at an outer part on one side of one
long granary board in the granary boards; air inlets of the ventilators penetrate through the granary
boards to extend to the granary and are communicated by virtue of a detachable horizontal
ventilating pipe; a plurality of vertical air inlet pipes parallel to one another are communicated and
mounted on an upper arm of the horizontal ventilating pipe; through holes are formed in side walls
of the air inlet pipes; the vertical air inlet pipes are parallel to the granary boards at intervals and are
fixed by virtue of fixing clips; a negative-pressure air inlet is formed on an outer side of another
long granary board in a position corresponding to the ventilators; a multifunctional air inlet window
component is sealed and embedded in the negative-pressure air inlet; an openable/closable window
shade is arranged at an outer part of the air inlet window component; multifunctional replaceable
                                                       2

plugboards are embedded into the air inlet window component; and a grain outlet is formed in one
short granary board.
[0009]    Each granary board is formed as follows: a thermal insulation layer is arranged in a middle;
air-conditioned barrier layers are tightly bonded to both sides of the thermal insulation layer;
protecting layers are tightly bonded to outer sides of the two air-conditioned barrier layers; and
supporting layers are tightly bonded to outer sides of the two protecting layers.
[0010]    An automatic opening/closing box-type window shade is mounted on an outer side of the
air inlet window component. The air inlet window component comprises five layers of replaceable
plugboards, i.e., a slow-release thermal insulation layer plugboard, an insect prevention layer
plugboard, a mildew prevention layer plugboard, a moisturizing layer plugboard and a slow-release
thermal insulation layer plugboard from inside to outside, and each plugboard layer is in an inserted
combination with a frame groove in a sealed manner.
[0011]    A capillary tube is embedded into the moisturizing layer plugboard. An upper end of the
capillary tube is connected with a cylindrical water inlet tank, and a spiral closed cover is arranged
on the water inlet tank.
[0012]    Further, the granary boards are formed by connecting I-shaped connecting strips in a sealed
and plugged manner.
[0013]    Further, the miniature granary further comprises a control system. A humidity sensor is
arranged in the granary. A signal is detected by the humidity sensor and transmitted to a single chip
microcomputer. The single-chip microcomputer controls a spiral closed cover recommender of a
water tank, and starts the spiral closed cover recommender of the water tank to inject water into a
moisturizing layer.
[0014]    The invention has positive and beneficial effects as follows:
[0015]    The miniature granary is simple in process, can realize mass production, effectively solves
problems at the present stage that grain storage facilities and equipment of farmers and storage
technologies are insufficient, has functions of mildew prevention, fog (moisture) prevention, insect
prevention, aging prevention, rat prevention and loss prevention, and is low in grain storage energy
consumption, excellent in thermal insulation effect and convenient in manufacture and use.
[0016]    In the invention, a mildew-proof, insect-resistant and anti-aging composite film serves as
an air-conditioned storage guarantee; tunnel negative-pressure self-cold-suction type pulse soaking
cooling serves as an energy conservation and cold accumulation guarantee; and a movable spliced
outer rat-proof insulation board layer serves as a miniature storage body. The miniature granary is
applied to farmers and grain processing enterprises.
                                                   3

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0017]   Fig. 1 is a structural schematic diagram of a miniature granary;
[0018]   Fig. 2 is a structural schematic diagram of an interior of a granary body in Fig. 1;
[0019]   Fig. 3 is a structural schematic diagram of granary boards;
[0020]   Fig. 4 is an enlarged schematic diagram of part A in Fig. 1; and
[0021]   Fig. 5 is a structural schematic diagram of a window shade.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
[0022]   The invention is further described below in combination with specific embodiments.
Methods involved in embodiments below are all conventional methods if not specifically described.
[0023]   A movable spliced tunnel negative-pressure self-cold-suction miniature granary comprises
a cuboid granary formed by sealing and encircling four sides of granary boards 3. An upper cover 2
seals and covers an upper part of the granary. The upper cover is a tip top 1; a grain inlet is formed
in the top of the upper cover in a sealed manner; a plurality of negative-pressure ventilators 10 are
mounted at an outer part on one side of one long granary board in the granary boards; air inlets of
the ventilators penetrate through the granary boards to extend to the granary and are communicated
by virtue of a detachable horizontal ventilating pipe 9; a plurality of vertical air inlet pipes 7 parallel
to one another are communicated and mounted on an upper arm of the horizontal ventilating pipe;
through holes 8 are formed in side walls of the air inlet pipes; the vertical air inlet pipes are parallel
to the granary boards at intervals and are fixed by virtue of fixing clips; a negative-pressure air inlet
is formed in an outer side of another long granary board in a position corresponding to the
ventilators (or negative-pressure fans); a multifunctional air inlet window component 5 is sealed
and embedded in the negative-pressure air inlet; an openable/closable window shade is arranged at
an outer part of the air inlet window component; multifunctional replaceable plugboards are
embedded into the air inlet window component; a grain outlet 6 is formed in one short granary
board; a negative-pressure fan port is equipped on a long granary wall of the granary in a spacing of
1.0-1.5 m respectively; and generally an air outlet is selected as the negative-pressure fan port.
[0024]   Each granary board is formed as follows: a thermal insulation layer 3-4 is arranged in a
middle; air-conditioned barrier layers 3-3 are tightly bonded to both sides of the thermal insulation
layer; protecting layers 3-2 are tightly bonded to outer sides of the two air-conditioned barrier layers;
and supporting layers 3-1 are tightly bonded to outer sides of the two protecting layers, wherein the
thermal insulation layer is a polystyrene board of 5-8 cm; PE preservative films of 0.3 mm-0.5 mm
on both sides of the thermal insulation layer serve as the air-conditioned barrier layers; then
cushioning materials made of elastic cotton cloth or expanded polyethylene serve as the protecting
                                                    4

layers; plastic steel plates or aluminum plates are respectively arranged on inner and outer sides to
serve as the supporting layers; a silver reflective coating is coated on the supporting layer on an
outer layer; and capsaicine and other rat-proof materials are contained in the coating.
[0025]   The granary boards are formed by connecting I-shaped connecting strips 4 in a sealed and
plugged manner, and a volume of the miniature granary may be conveniently adjusted by setting a
quantity of the sealed strips.
[0026]   The air inlet window component is a square of 30-50 mm. A thickness of the box is 15-20
mm, and an automatic opening/closing box-type window shade is mounted on an outer side. The air
inlet window component comprises five layers of replaceable plugboards, i.e., a slow-release
thermal insulation layer plugboard 17 (porous cotton of 0.1-0.3 cm), an insect prevention layer
plugboard 16 (non-woven allicin + capsaicine preservative extract, mainly used for controlling
maize weevil, rice weevil, grain moth, etc.), a mildew prevention layer plugboard 15 (oregano
essential oil + cinnamon essential oil mirco-encapsulated preservative extract on the non-woven,
mainly used for controlling fungal growth), a moisturizing layer plugboard 14 (porous cotton with
water-injecting capillary tubes) and a slow-release thermal insulation layer plugboard 13 (porous
cotton of 0.1-0.3 cm) from inside to outside, and each plugboard layer is in an inserted combination
with a frame groove in a sealed manner; a capillary tube 12 of 0.02-0.05 cm is embedded into
different positions of the moisturizing layer plugboard; an upper end of the capillary tube is
connected with a large-caliber PE pipe; an upper end of the PE pipe is connected with a cylindrical
water inlet tank 11 in a communicated manner; a spiral closed cover is arranged in the water inlet
tank; the capillary tube may perform water injection and moisturizing when humidity of the
moisturizing layer is insufficient (water injection and heating is performed when relative humidity
in the granary is greater than 70%-80%, and water injection is not performed and the humidity is
reduced through ventilation when the humidity is too high; and a condition that grains lack of water
or are mildewed due to extremely high moisture can be effectively controlled); and the
negative-pressure air inlet is in sealed unlocked connection with the window shade.
[0027]   The present application further relates to an automatic control system. A humidity sensor is
arranged in the granary. A signal is detected by the humidity sensor and transmitted to a single chip
microcomputer. The single-chip microcomputer controls a spiral closed cover recommender of the
water tank. When the humidity in the granary is less than 70%, the single-chip microcomputer starts
the spiral closed cover recommender of the water tank to inject water into the moisturizing layer,
thereby increasing the humidity in the granary, and when the humidity is greater than 85%, water
injection is stopped, thereby ensuring a relatively constant humidity in the granary. When a
                                                    5

temperature in the granary is higher than a temperature outside the granary by 5 C and the
temperature in the granary is higher than 0 C, the window shade is started; when the temperature in
the granary is lower than 0 C or the temperature outside the granary is higher than the temperature
in the granary, the window shade is closed; and when the negative-pressure fan is started, the
window shade is started.
[0028]   When the granary is used, a cold soaking type repeated pulse cooling manner is adopted
for 0.5-1.0 hour after cold suction is performed under a negative pressure for 0.5-1.0 hour through
low temperature at night or in autumn and winter is utilized; cooling capacity of cold air (less than
20 C) is fully utilized; and a grain cooling speed is equivalent to a continuous cold accumulation
speed, but energy is saved by 40%-50%. The grain outlet of the miniature granary is a
negative-pressure air inlet. The unlocked connection of the window shade is eliminated during grain
discharging, and the grains are discharged in a self-flowing manner.
[0029]   It will be understood that the term "comprise" and any of its derivatives         (eg comprises,
comprising) as used in this specification is to be taken to be inclusive of features to which it refers,
and is not meant to exclude the presence of any additional features unless otherwise stated or
implied.
[0030]   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.
[0031]   It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention is not restricted in its use
to the particular application described. Neither is the present invention restricted in its preferred
embodiment with regard to the particular elements and/or features described or depicted herein. It
will be appreciated that various modifications can be made without departing from the principles of
the invention. Therefore, the invention should be understood to include all such modifications in its
scope.
                                                    6

What is claimed is:
1. A movable spliced tunnel negative-pressure self-cold-suction miniature granary, comprising a
   cuboid granary formed by sealing and encircling four sides of granary boards, wherein an upper
   cover seals and covers an upper part of the granary; a sealed grain inlet is formed in a top of the
   upper cover; a plurality of negative-pressure ventilators are mounted at an outer part on one
   side of one long granary board in the granary boards; air inlets of the ventilators penetrate
   through the granary boards to extend to the granary and are communicated by virtue of a
   detachable horizontal ventilating pipe; a plurality of vertical air inlet pipes parallel to one
   another are communicated and mounted on an upper arm of the horizontal ventilating pipe;
   through holes are formed in side walls of the air inlet pipes; the vertical air inlet pipes are
   parallel to the granary boards at intervals and are fixed by virtue of fixing clips; a
   negative-pressure air inlet is formed in an outer side of another long granary board in a position
   corresponding to the ventilators,; a multifunctional air inlet window component is sealed and
   embedded in the negative-pressure air inlet; an openable/closable window shade is arranged at
   an outer part of the air inlet window component; multifunctional replaceable plugboards are
   embedded into the air inlet window component; and a grain outlet is formed in one short
   granary board;
   each granary board is formed as follows: a thermal insulation layer is arranged in a middle;
   air-conditioned barrier layers are tightly bonded to both sides of the thermal insulation layer;
   protecting layers are tightly bonded to outer sides of the two air-conditioned barrier layers; and
   supporting layers are tightly bonded to outer sides of the two protecting layers;
   an automatic opened/closed box-type window shade is mounted on an outer side of the air inlet
   window component; the air inlet window component comprises five layers of plugboards, i.e., a
   slow-release thermal insulation layer plugboard, an insect prevention layer plugboard, a mildew
   prevention layer plugboard, a moisturizing layer plugboard and a slow-release thermal
   insulation layer plugboard from inside to outside; and each plugboard layer is in an inserted
   combination with a frame groove in a sealed manner; and
   a capillary tube is embedded into the moisturizing layer plugboard; an upper end of the
   capillary tube is connected with a cylindrical water inlet tank; and a spiral closed cover is
   arranged on the water inlet tank.
                                                  7

2. The movable spliced tunnel negative-pressure self-cold-suction miniature granary according to
   claim 1, wherein the granary boards are formed by connecting I-shaped connecting strips in a
   sealed and plugged manner.
3. The movable spliced tunnel negative-pressure self-cold-suction miniature granary according to
   claim 1, wherein the miniature granary further comprises a control system; a humidity sensor is
   arranged in the granary; a signal is detected by the humidity sensor and transmitted to a
   single-chip microcomputer; and the single-chip microcomputer controls a spiral closed cover
   recommender of a water tank, and starts the spiral closed cover recommender of the water tank
   to inject water into a moisturizing layer.
                                                8

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
