                                             13
                                        ABSTRACT
   A concealed wall-mounted folding urinal (10) has a main body (12) adapted to be
   mounted on an internal wall of a bathroom or lavatory in a building such as a
   dwelling.   A tray (14) is pivotally attached to the main body (12) for movement
   between a first, standby, position in which the tray (14) abuts the main body
 5 portion (12), and a second, ready for use, position in which the tray (14) is ready to
   receive urine from a male person standing before the urinal (10). An actuator (78)
   is adapted to pivot the tray (14) between the first position and the second position
   in response to the output of a sensor (106, 108).      When the sensor (106, 108)
   detects the presence of a person within a predetermined distance of the urinal, the
10 actuator (78) is caused to pivot the tray (14) from the first position to the second
   position. When the sensor (106, 108) detects the absence of a person within a
   predetermined distance of the urinal, the actuator (78) is caused to pivot the tray
   (14) from the second position to the first position. In the first position, the urinal
   (10) is then flushed with water through a spray nozzle (80).

                                                1
                     CONCEALED WALL-MOUNTED FOLDING URINAL
   This invention relates to installations for receiving human waste, and in particular
   relates to urinals.
   Urinals, for use by male persons, are well known. Normally used in public toilets,
 5 they take a number of different forms. Some urinals of ceramic, or more likely,
   metal material, are able to accommodate a number of persons standing side-by
   side. Other, usually older-style, urinals are similar, but have divisions to provide
   some privacy. Many modern public toilets have individual wall-mounted urinals.
   Some of these wall-mounted urinals have privacy screens between adjacent units,
10 and some installations have one or more urinals located in a lower position on a
   wall, to cater for young male children.
   It has not been standard practice to install urinals in bathrooms of dwellings, hotels
   or motels. In Europe, many such bathrooms have both a pedestal toilet and a
   bidet, but no urinal. It is considered that to have a urinal in a domestic or
15 hotel/motel bathroom would be more than acceptable to females, who would not
   have to worry about male members of the family, or male visitors, urinating on the
   toilet seat, or leaving the seat up. However, there would normally be insufficient
   space for a urinal to be installed, in addition to other bathroom fixtures.
   Some folding urinals have been described in the prior art. The website
20 www.vintageplumbinq.com describes and shows an "all china folding personal
   urinal" produced by The J. L. Mott Iron Works, which was featured in an 1895
   catalogue. The urinal, bearing the patent date 1876, has "an all china body, all
   china fold open door that becomes the receptacle when open, and amazing faucet
   that is activated by the lever that holds the door". The Mister Miser (Trade Mark)
25 folding urinal is featured at www.treehuqqer.com and www.hometone.com.           This
   urinal appears to be mounted partially within a wall cavity, and has a manually
   operated cover which is able to be moved from a vertical, closed position to an
   angled position for use.

                                               2
   CN201933592 discloses a wall embedded type multifunctional toilet bowl having a
   fixed type frame body embedded in a wall and a toilet base with a urinal. The
   base is able to be moved from a vertical, closed, position to a horizontal position
   for use. DE1 9902933 shows a wall-mounted pivoted urinal which may be moved
 5 from a position flush against a wall into lower horizontal positions by pivot bars
   hinged to a basin. When flush against the wall, the basin is covered by a wall
   mounted hood. DE202005003305 discloses a wall-mounted swing toilet
   bowl/urinal which is on a swing axis to be moved manually from a vertical position
   against a wall into a horizontal position for use.
10 None of the prior art devices provides an optimum folding urinal for domestic and
   other uses. By way of example, the Mister Miser urinal has nothing to prevent
   urine from splashing out of the sides of the urinal when it is in an "in use" position,
   and the urinal of DE202005003305 protrudes into the room in which it is located,
   even in the closed position. It is accordingly an object of this invention to provide
15 an improved folding urinal.
   The invention provides a folding urinal including a main body and a tray connected
   to said main body, said tray being adapted to move between a first position in
   which it abuts said main body, in which first position said folding urinal is in
   standby mode, and a second position in which it is at an angle to said main body
20 portion, in which second position said tray is in a ready for use mode and adapted
   to receive urine from a user of said folding urinal, characterised in that actuating
   means mounted on said body and connected to said tray is adapted to move said
   tray between said first position and said second position.
   An embodiment of the invention will be described in detail hereinafter, with
25 reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
   Fig. 1 is a perspective view from the left of the front of a folding urinal in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, showing the urinal in
   "in use" mode;

                                                3
   Fig. 2 is a perspective view from the left of the front of the folding urinal of Fig. 1,
   showing the urinal in "standby" mode;
   Fig. 3 is a partially exploded view from the front of the main body of the urinal of
   Figs. 1 and 2;
 5 Fig. 4 is a perspective view from the rear of the main body of Fig. 3;
   Fig 5 is a rear elevation of the main body of Figs. 3 and 4;
   Fig. 6 is a side elevation of the right side of the main body of Figs. 3, 4 and 5;
   Fig. 7 is an exploded view of the folding urinal of Figs. 1 and 2;
   Fig. 8 is a side elevation of the tray and actuator of the folding urinal of Figs. 1 and
10 2, showing the tray in its "standby" position;
   Fig. 9 is a side elevation of the tray and actuator of the folding urinal of Figs. 1 and
   2, showing the tray in its "in use" position;
   Fig. 10 is a perspective view from the left of the front of a folding urinal of Figs. 1
   and 2, showing the main body and tray separated;
15 Fig. 11 is a perspective view from the left of the front of a folding urinal of Figs. 1
   and 2, showing a cover for the main body separated therefrom;
   Fig. 12 is a perspective view from the left of the front of a folding urinal of Figs. 1
   and 2, showing a cover for the tray, separated therefrom;
   Fig. 13 is a section through one form of an outlet arrangement for the main body of
20 the folding urinal of Figs. 1 and 2; and
   Fig. 14 is a flow chart showing the automated operation of the folding urinal of
   Figs. 1 to 12.

                                               4
   Referring now to the drawings, there is shown a folding urinal 10 in accordance
   with one embodiment of the invention. The urinal 10 includes a main body 12 and
   a tray 14 which is pivotally attached to the main body 12. The urinal 10 is adapted
   to be mounted on or partially in a wall (not shown), which is preferably an internal
 5 wall of a building such as a dwelling, in a bathroom or toilet. The urinal 10 may
   preferably be fully or partially recessed into a cavity (not shown) of the wall such
   that it is substantially concealed. If the wall cavity variant is used, the depth of the
   cavity can be preferably as little as 70mm. The attachment of the folding urinal 10
   to a wall is such that it may easily be removed from the wall for servicing.
10 Main body 12 includes a base 16 (Fig. 7), in which is located an outlet 18 for
   liquid(s) introduced into the urinal 10 by a user and/or by flushing, a rear wall 20,
   and side walls 22, 24. There is also a front plate 26, which, with the base 16 and
   the lower parts of rear wall 20 and side walls 22, 24, defines an open chamber 28
   into which the aforementioned liquid(s) may flow directly and/or from tray 14.
15 Tray 14 has a flat base 30 and a curved upper surface 32 which has a generally
   U-shaped cross-section, the shape being formed by two side walls 34, 36 curving
   from a mid-point of surface 32, the walls 34, 36 also rising from the front of tray 14
   to the rear thereof. Tray 14 is pivotally attached to main body 12 by hinges 38, 40,
   for limited movement between the "standby" position of Fig. 2 and the "in use"
20 position of Fig. 1. The hinges 38, 40 may take the form described in the following
   paragraph, in conjunction with Fig. 7 of the drawings.
   The tray 14 may be constituted as shown in Fig. 7, with base 30 formed separately
   to the main portion 54 of tray 14. In this variation, axles 42 may be part of an
   elongated H-shaped member 56, which is formed by main portion 58, the ends of
25 which form axles 42, which in the assembled tray 14, protrude through apertures
   44 in main body 54. The member 56, which is preferably formed from stainless
   steel rods welded together, is adapted to be located in recesses 60, 62 on ribs 64,
   66 of the underside of body portion 54. Base 30 is then secured to main body 54,
   preferably by "sandwiching" member 56 between main tray body 54 and base 30.

                                               5
   Preferably, the body 54 and base 30 are formed of plastics material, and the body
   54 and base 30 are heat welded together in the "sandwiching" process.
   As may also be seen in Figs. 1 and 7, the outside sides of walls 34, 36 are
   provided with arcuate slots 70, 72, which are adapted to engage protrusions (only
 5 one of which is shown as 74 in those figures) on the interior surface of walls 22, 24
   of main body 12. The protrusions 74 may be made of rubber. The co-operation
   between the slots 70, 72 and the protrusions 74 guide and limit the pivoting of tray
   14 relative to body 12.
   Member 56 also has a connecting element 76, which is located near one end of
10 portion 58 and extends generally at right angles to axle 42 at one end of portion
   58. Connecting element 76 is intended to be connected to an actuator 78 (Figs. 1,
   3, 4, 5, 6 and 7), preferably an electric actuator, which is adapted to cause tray to
   move between "standby" and "in use" positions. Fig. 8 shows the "standby"
   position, and Fig. 9 shows the "in use' or "ready for use' position.
15 Folding urinal 10 has a flushing mechanism in the form of a nozzle or the like 80,
   which is located (Figs. 4, 5 and 6) on main body 12 above the chamber 28. The
   nozzle 80 is connected to an adapter or connector 82 to a supply of flushing liquid
   such as water. The flow of liquid to spray nozzle 80 is controlled by a valve (not
   shown) which is preferably a solenoid operated valve operated as part of the
20 automated system of folding urinal 10. The lowered design moulded shape area
   21 prevents water coming from spray nozzle 80 from escaping out of the sides 34,
   36 of tray 14 when it is in the closed position. As will be described later in this
   description, the valve is closed when the urinal is in opened (for a predetermined
   period of time) and closed during the sequence of the system controlling the
25 operation of folding urinal 10.
   The outlet 18 in base 16, receives urine is adapted to discharge urine received in
   chamber 28 of the urinal 10 into a sewage or equivalent system (not shown) for,
   eventually, treatment. Outlet 18 may be plumbed into such a system in a
   conventional manner known to someone skilled in the art.

                                                6
   One form of outlet 18 is shown in Fig. 13. In a (preferably circular) aperture 84 in
   base 16 of main body 12 of folding urinal 10 is located an outlet pipe 86 adapted to
   be secured to base 16 by being connected to outlet member 88, preferably by
   screwing together the two elements 86, 88. A gasket 90 preferably provides a
 5 seal between elements 86, 88 and base 16. A cage, which may be removably
   secured to outlet 86 or which may be integral therewith, has a side 92 which
   permit liquid to pass therethrough but which prevent the passage of larger objects.
   This side (and the top 94 may also allow passage of liquids but not solids) may
   take any suitable form, such as perforations or a mesh of some kind.
10 Within cage 92 is a mechanism 96 for preventing odours from entering folding
   urinal 10, and by extension the room in which the folding urinal 10 is located, from
   the pipes leading to the sewage system, from the direction of the arrow in Fig. 13.
   A generally spherical ball 98, similar to a table tennis ball in weight, is adapted to
   seat on a seal 100 located on a restricted diameter portion of outlet pipe 86. In
15 this position, the combination of the ball 98 and seal 100, which may preferably be
   in the form of an O-ring, will prevent the aforementioned odours from passing
   through the pipe 86 into chamber 28, main body 12 and folding urinal 10.
   However, when liquid enters chamber 28 and passes through cage 92, it will lift
   ball 98, allowing the liquid to pass between the ball 98 and the seal 100 into pipe
20 86.
   A housing 102 (Figs. 4 and 5) is located on the rear face of main body 12 of urinal
   10, near nozzle 82. The housing 102, which has a cover plate 46 attached by
   clips or screws, contains a printed circuit board which operates the various
   elements of the operating system for the folding urinal 10, which elements may
25 include a light 104, which located at the top of main body 12 and is adapted to
   illuminate the interior of the folding urinal 10, a short range sensor 106 and a long
   range sensor 108, which are visible, and operate, at the front upper part of main
   body 12 (Figs. 1, 2, 3 and 7). The operation of the light 104 which preferably
   produces a soft light, and the operation of the sensors, will be described later in
30 this specification. The actuator 78, the flushing water valve, and any other aspect
   of the system operating folding urinal 10 is connected in the printed circuit board
   (PCB) in housing 102 and which contains the sensors 106, 108 housed therein,

                                                7
   and which may also include a microprocessor or the like for optimal operation of
   the circuit and the folding urinal 10 system.
   Fig.1 1 shows main body 12 and a cover 110 which desirably is secured to body 12
   to provide a pleasing appearance to the folding urinal 10, and to cover any
 5 elements of the body 12 which serve a practical purpose and which are not very
   aesthetic.. The cover 110 has an aperture 112 which, when the cover is attached
   to body 12, is in register with the short range sensor 106 and long range sensor
   108, in order to allow them to operate. Fig. 12 shows tray 14 and a cover 114 for
   tray 14 to again provide a pleasing appearance for urinal 10. Preferably, the main
10 body 12 and tray 14 are formed from plastics material, and the covers 110, 114
   may be formed from high-quality plastics material with an attractive glossy finish,
   or from chrome, or stainless steel with a finish of brushed, polished, patterns and
   the like. Desirably, if the covers 110, 114 are formed from plastics material, they
   are heat-welded to body 12 and tray 14 respectively.
15 The folding urinal 10 may be programmed to operate in the following manner,
   which describes the sequence of operation of the folding urinal 10 according to a
   preferred embodiment of the present invention. In the context of this explanation,
   the term "actuator overload" is defined as a situation in which it is detected that the
   actuator is unable to fully open the tray 14 to the "ready for use" or "in use"
20 position or fully close the tray 14 to the "standby" position. This may be due to
   some obstruction preventing the tray 14 from being fully opened or fully closed.
    In the standby mode, the tray 14 is in an "out of use" position, closed and flush to
   main body 12. If someone approaches within the predetermined range (preferably
   with a hand or other part of the persons' body which could be set at a close
25 distance) of short-range sensor 106, the sensor will detect the presence of that
   person, and as a result will switch on the light 104, and open the tray 14 to the "in
   use" position. The urinal 10 is then able to be used. It is to be understood that
   this means that the folding urinal 10 may be used in a dark room, and that there
   may be no need to switch on the room's light in order to use the urinal.
30 Alternatively, the system may be programmed so that the light is not switched on if

                                              8
   the room light is on. This would require light detection means coupled into the
   printed circuit board of the operating system of folding urinal 10.
   When a male person wishes to use the urinal 10, and has approached the urinal
   10 within the predetermined distance of long range sensor 108, the urinal 10 will
 5 be in the "ready for use" position of Fig. 1. The male person would then urinate
   into the open chamber 28. Under gravity, the urine would run down the chamber
   28 to the base 16 of main body portion 12, and out through outlet 18 to a sewage
   system or the like.
   The long range sensor 108 also has a predetermined detection range, preferably a
10 distance of up to approximately 500mm) However, should an actuator overload be
   detected by the actuator overload detector, the tray 14 will be closed and the light
   104 caused to flash three times. This returns the urinal 10 to the standby mode. If
   no overload is detected, the system will ignore all signals from the short range
   sensor 106 and the long range sensor 108 for a predetermined period of time, for
15 example two minutes. At the end of that time period, the long range sensor 108 is
   interrogated, and if no motion is detected, the tray 14 is closed. If motion is
   detected by the long range sensor 108, the system delays for another
   predetermined period of time, for example one minute, and the long range sensor
   108 is again interrogated. If motion is again detected, the system will again delay
20 for the predetermined time, and this will repeat until an interrogation of the long
   range sensor 108 reveals no motion within the range of the sensor.
   When interrogation of the long range sensor 108 shows no motion, the tray 14 will
   be closed. If actuator overload is detected, the tray 14 will be immediately opened
   again, and the light 104 caused to flash three times. If no actuator overload is
25 detected, the light 104 will be switched off after a third predetermined period of
   time, for example two seconds. The system then waits for a further predetermined
   period of time, for example three seconds, and then the solenoid-operated valve
   controlling the flow of flushing water through the spray nozzle 80 is activated for
   another predetermined period of time, for example ten minutes. The urinal 10 is
30 then in standby mode again. It should be noted that the sensors 106, 108 in this
   variant are effectively motion-detecting sensors.

                                                9
   An alternative method of operation of the folding urinal 10 is shown in Fig. 7 and
   the flow chart of Fig. 14. This method uses an infra-red sensor which in Fig. 7 is
   designated 68, 106 and 108. Such an infra-red sensor, which is of a conventional
   design, detects the presence of something or someone in front of the folding urinal
 5 10, whether something or someone is moving or not, within a predetermined
   distance, and as a result the printed circuit board commences the change from the
   "standby" mode of the folding urinal 10 to the "ready for use" mode. If two sensor
   elements 106, 108 are used, they may be infra-red light emitters, and the infra-red
   detector is shown as 68. These emitters 106 and 108, and receiver 68, are
10 connected directly to the PCB in housing 102, with preferably a seal such as an 0
   ring between the housing 102 and a tinted infra-red-friendly window (not shown),
   preferably of plastics material, surrounding the connection of each element 106,
   108 and 68 to prevent infra-red light reflecting between them, thereby eliminating
   interference. This window would desirably be able to allow the passage of infra
15 red light, while showing a tinted appearance to a user of the folding urinal 10.
   The infra-red sensor is programmable to detect the presence or absence of
   something or someone over both the short range and long range distances
   described earlier in this specification. As part of its operation, the printed circuit
   board is able to change between short range and long range detection as part of
20 the sequence of operation shown in the flow chart of Fig. 14.
   Although the aforementioned embodiment of the present invention has been
   described with an automated operation, it would be entirely possible for the folding
   urinal 10 to be operated manually or partially manually and partially automatically.
   The tray 14 may be able to be opened and close manually by pressing a pressing
25 button which is a part of a control circuit, but then the urinal 10 may operate as
   described hereinbefore. Alternatively, the urinal 10 may be entirely manually
   operated, with manual operation, through buttons, of the tray 14 opening and
   closing, the switching on and off of the light 104, and the operation of the flushing
   spray nozzle 80.
30 Preferably, the entire front face of the folding urinal 10 has a chrome plush finish,
   gloss plastics material, a stainless steel finish, or the like.

                                                  10
   It may be seen that the folding urinal of the present invention has many
   advantages. It is compact, taking up little space in a bathroom or toilet. It may be
   provided with a quiet flush so as not to wake anyone else in the dwelling, unit or
   the like. There is no need to turn on the bathroom light and thus wake up other
 5 persons. The urinal 10 is water-efficient, using only a small spray nozzles 80 for a
   few seconds. Females would be happy that the toilet seat will never be urinated
   on, nor the toilet seat left up.
   In addition, water consumption for flushing is only a fraction of that used when a
   conventional pedestal toilet of the type installed in dwellings is used for male
10 urination. The folding urinal 10 is more hygienic, in that there is much less chance
   of urine finding its way onto the toilet or bathroom floor from errant urine delivery,
   because the tray 14 is below and close to the scrotum. Also, because of the
   automated system operating the folding urinal 10, male persons will be less likely
   to forget to fasten their fly, and it is further more hygienic because it is not
15 necessary to touch any button to operate the urinal 10 or the flushing mechanism.
   The urinal 10 of this invention would be suitable for domestic bathrooms,
   bathrooms in hotel/motel rooms, cabins, aircraft, ships, boats and any other
   situation where it is desired to have a urinal and save space.
   As installed, the main body 12 and the urinal 10 will desirably have a generally
20 vertical orientation.

                 EDITORIAL NOTE
                         <removed-apn>
- There are 2 sets of Claims on file

                                             11
   Same as the claims that are on file at present
   CLAIMS
     1. A folding urinal which includes a main body and a tray connected to said
          main body, said main body including a chamber for receiving urine from a
          user, said tray being adapted to move between a first position in which it
          abuts said main body, thereby to close said chamber, in which first
 5        position said folding urinal is in a standby mode, and a second position in
          which said tray is at an acute angle to said main body and is in a ready for
          use mode in which said tray opens to said chamber and is adapted to
          receive urine from a user of said folding urinal such that urine from a user
          may flow from said tray into said chamber, wherein an actuating means is
10        mounted on said main body and connected to said tray, the actuating
          means being adapted to move said tray between said first position and
          said second position.
    2.  A folding urinal according to claim 1, wherein said actuating means is
          caused to pivot said tray between said first position and said second
15        position in response to signals from a sensor means located on or near
          said folding urinal, said sensor means producing a first signal when
          detecting the presence of a person within a predetermined range from
          said folding urinal and producing a second signal when detecting the
          absence of a person within a predetermined range from said folding
20        urinal, said first signal causing said actuating means to move said tray
          from said first position to said second position, and said second signal
          causing said actuating means to move said tray from said second position
          to said first position.
    3.  A folding urinal according to claim 2, wherein said first signal range can be
25        set anywhere between about 5cm up to about 50cm, and said second
          signal predetermined range is up to about 50cm.

                                          12
   4.  A folding urinal according to claim 2, wherein said sensor means is a
         motion sensor.
 5 5.  A folding urinal according to claim 2, wherein said sensor means is a
         proximity sensor.
   6.  A folding urinal according to claim 2, wherein said sensor means is an infra
         red sensor.
10
   7.  A folding urinal according to claim 6, wherein said sensor means is an infra
         red proximity sensor.
   8.  A folding urinal according to claim 2, wherein said sensor means is an
15       ultrasonic sensor.
   9.  A folding urinal according to anyone of claims 2-8, wherein the control
         means adapted to operate said actuating means in response to the
         signals outputted by said sensor means.
20
   10. A folding urinal according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
         tray comprises a base and a body portion that has two side walls, the
         base and the body portion being formed as two separate parts that are
         secured together forming an internal cavity to make said tray.
25
   11. A folding urinal according to claim 10, wherein a hinge member is
         sandwiched between the base and the body portion fixing the hinge to the
         tray enabling the tray to move with the hinge.
30 12. A folding urinal according to claim 11, wherein the hinge member has axles
         that protrude from the sides of the tray to pivotally attach the tray to the
         main body at the hinges.
   13. A folding urinal according to claim 11, wherein the hinge member has a
35       connecting lever element connected near one end, extending generally at
         right angles to said axle and the end of lever element is connected to

                                             13
         actuation means which is adapted to cause the tray to move between the
         first position and second position.
   14. A folding urinal according to claim 11, wherein said hinge member is of
 5       metal.
   15. A folding urinal according to claim 1, having a front face and/or a decorative
         front cover that surrounds the outer front part of the urinal.
10 16. A folding urinal according to claim 1, wherein said urinal is adapted to be
         mounted on or partially in a wall by a hook means, such that it may easily
         be removed from the wall for servicing.
   17. A folding urinal according claim 1, comprising a light adapted to illuminate
15       the interior of said folding urinal.
   18. A folding urinal according to claim 1, comprising a flushing means adapted
         to flush said folding urinal after use, when said tray is in said first
         position.
20
   19. A folding urinal according to claim 1 comprising a programmable
         microprocessor-controlled control means adapted to control operation of
         said actuating means, sensor means, light and flushing means.
25 20. A folding urinal according to claims 18, wherein said flushing means
         includes a valve controlling the flow of flushing liquid to a spray nozzle,
         said control means also being adapted to control the operation of said
         light and said valve.
30 21. A folding urinal according to claim 1 which has a lowered moulded shape
         area designed to prevent water that may come from a spray nozzle from
         escaping out of the sides of tray when it is in the closed position.
   22. A folding urinal according to any one of the preceding claims, including an
35       outlet from said main body and said tray, said outlet having means for
         preventing odours from entering the interior of said folding urinal through

                                           14
         said outlet, said means for preventing including a generally spherical
         sealing member adapted to co-operate with an annular seal around said
         outlet, said sealing member being adapted to float away from said seal
         when liquid enters the interior of said folding urinal, thus allowing the
 5       liquid to pass through said outlet, and to return to said seal when said flow
         of liquid ceases.
   23. A folding urinal according to claim 21, including a cage located over said
         outlet, said cage permitting liquid to flow there through, but not permitting
10       said spherical sealing member to move inside said cage further than the
         wall thereof.
   24. A folding urinal according to any one of the preceding claims including a
         main body cover and tray cover made of plastics, chrome, porcelain or
15       stainless steel or any combination.
   25. A folding urinal, substantially as described or illustrated in any one of
         figures 1 to 13.

                                         11
                                      CLAIMS
   1. A folding urinal including a main body and a tray connected to said main
      body, said tray being adapted to move between a first position in which it
      abuts said main body, in which first position said folding urinal is in standby
      mode, and a second position in which it is at an angle to said main body
 5    portion, in which second position said tray is in a ready for use mode and
      adapted to receive urine from a user of said folding urinal, characterised in
      that actuating means mounted on said body and connected to said tray is
      adapted to move said tray between said first position and said second
      position.
10 2. A folding urinal according to claim 1, characterised in that said actuating
      means is caused to pivot said tray between said first position and said
      second position in response to one or more signals from sensor means
      located on or near said folding urinal.
   3. A folding urinal according to claim 2, characterised in that said sensor
15    means produces a first signal when said sensor means detects the
      presence of a person within a predetermined distance of said folding urinal,
      causing said actuating means to pivot said tray from said first position to
      said second position.
   4. A folding urinal according to claim 2, characterised in that said sensor
20    means produces a second signal when said sensor means detects the
      absence of a person within a predetermined distance of said folding urinal,
      causing said actuating means to pivot said tray from said second position to
      said first position.
   5. A folding urinal according to any one of claims 2 to 5, characterised in that
25    said sensor means is a motion sensor.
   6. A folding urinal according to any one of claims 2 to 5, characterised in that
      said sensor means is an infra-red sensor.

                                             12
   7.  A folding urinal according to claim 6, characterised in that said infra-red
       sensor includes at least one emitter of infra-red light, and an infra-red
       detector.
   8.  A folding urinal according to any one of claims 2 to 7, characterised by
 5     control means adapted to operate said actuating means in response to the
       signals outputted by said sensor means.
   9.  A folding urinal according to claim 8, characterised by a light adapted to
       illuminate the interior of said folding urinal, and flushing means to flush said
       folding urinal after use, when it is in said first position, said flushing means
10     having a valve controlling the flow of flushing liquid to a spray nozzle, said
       control means also being adapted to control the operation of said light and
       said valve.
   10. A folding urinal according to any one of claims 8 or 9, characterised in that
       said control means is in the form of a printed circuit board in the electrical
15     circuit of which are connected said actuating means, sensing means, said
       light and said flushing means.
   11. A folding urinal according to any one of claims 8 to 10, characterised in that
       said circuit is microprocessor-controlled.
   12. A folding urinal according to any preceding claim, characterised by an outlet
20     from said main body and said tray, said outlet having means for preventing
       odours from entering the interior of said folding urinal through said outlet,
       said means for preventing including a generally spherical sealing member
       adapted to co-operate with an annular seal around said outlet, said sealing
       member being adapted to float away from said seal when liquid enters the
25     interior of said folding urinal, thus allowing the liquid to pass through said
       outlet, and to return to said seal when said flow of liquid ceases.
   13. A folding urinal according to claim 12, characterised by a cage located over
       said outlet, said cage permitting liquid to flow therethrough, but not
       permitting said spherical sealing member to move inside said cage further
30     than the wall thereof.

<removed-date>
                             EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
              - There are 10 pages of Drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
