                                                 ABSTRACT
                            Various embodiments described herein provide a fastener system having
             straight walled driving surfaces that provides a reliable stick fit feature, while also
             improving stability of engagement between the system components. A feature of
             the new system is to allow engagement of existing standard straight walled drivers
             in the new system.
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2 31 August2015

      5/16
   13
             13
15
      FIG. 7

            FASTENER SYSTEM WITH STABLE ENGAGEMENT AND STICK FIT
                                            RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]                      This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application
no. 2015275295, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                  BACKGROUND
[0002]                     This application relates in general to drive systems for threaded fasteners,
tools for their manufacture, and drivers for applying torque to such fasteners. More
specifically this application relates to fasteners that are constructed with straight walled
recesses. In particular a fastener system is constructed wherein the driver and fastener
engage with improved stability of axial alignment and stick fit.
[0003]                     Threaded fasteners commonly used in industrial applications typically are
driven by power tools at high speeds and under high torque loads. Such conditions
present difficult design considerations, particularly with respect to the drive systems and,
more particularly, with threaded fasteners having a driver engageable recess in the
fastener head or a driver engageable exterior contour to the fastener head. Ideally, such a
drive system needs to be easily manufactured, both as to recess and head geometry, as
well as to associated tooling for forming the fastener head and the drivers for engaging
the recess or head geometry. The strength of the head of the fastener should not be
adversely affected by the recess. The driver, when mated, should distribute the stress
loads uniformly to avoid formation of highly localized regions of stress that might result
in deformation of the drive surfaces, or driver, or both, leading to premature failure of the
drive system.
                                                           1
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

[0004]                     The fastener system should resist cam-out of the driver from the recess
when the fastener is driven. In many applications, it is very important that the fastener
must be capable of withstanding several cycles, as in applications where the fasteners
must be removed in order to repair or replace parts or to remove and replace access
panels. The fastener drive system ideally should be capable of such repeated cycling,
particularly in environments where the recess may become contaminated, painted,
corroded or otherwise adversely affected in use. In such environments, it is essential that
the drive system maintain driving engagement while applying torque in a removal
direction. It may be necessary for the drive system to be capable of applying even higher
levels of torque when removing the fastener, as may occur when the fastener is over
tightened during initial assembly, or where corrosion develops at the interface at the
engaged threads, or if thermal cycling of the assembled components has placed increased
stress on the fastener. These, and other, characteristics often present competing
considerations; and compromises of one in favor of another may have to be made.
[0005]                     A variety of recess and driver configurations are in common use, including
a number of cross-recesses, such as those described in U.S. patent Re. 24,878 (Smith et
al.); U.S. patent 3,237,506 (Muenchinger) and U.S. patent 2,474,994 (Tomalis). Other
fastener geometries include multi-lobe geometries of the type described in U.S. patent
3,763,725 (Reiland) and ribbed drive systems as described in U.S. patent 4,187,892
(Simmons). Also among the common recess configurations is the "Allen" system which
is essentially a straight walled hexagonally shaped socket receptive to a similarly shaped
driver. A fastener system having multiple lobes with spirally configured drive surfaces is
described in U.S. patent 5,957,645 (Stacy).
[0006]                     With the exception of the ribbed systems, the walls and faces of the driver
and recess typically are designed to fit closely with each other in an effort to achieve
                                                         2
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

face-to-face contact of the driving and driven surfaces. With cross-recess fasteners, such
face-to-face engagement can occur only, if at all, when the driver is properly aligned and
seated within the recess. As a practical matter, however, in order to enable the driver to
be inserted into the recess, there necessarily must be some clearance between the two.
[0007]                     The necessity for such clearance is even more critical with recesses having
substantially axially aligned (straight) drive walls, as in the Reiland '725 patent and Allen
head systems. In all of these systems, the practical result of the necessity for such
clearance is that substantial face-to-face, broad area contact between the driver and recess
surfaces is seldom achieved, if at all. With most drive systems for threaded fasteners, the
driver mates with the recess in the head in a manner that results in point or line contact
rather than face-to-face broad area contact. The actual area of contact typically is
substantially less than full face-to-face contact. Consequently, when torque is applied by
the driver, the forces applied to the screw head tend to be concentrated in localized areas
with resulting high localized stresses and unstable axial alignment. Such localized high
stress can plastically deform the recess, forming ramps or other deformations that result
in premature, unintended disengagement of the driver from the recess.
[0008]                     A fastener system for maximizing the engageable surface area between the
driver and drive surfaces is described in the Stacy'645 patent, which is commonly owned
with the subject application. The disclosure of the '645 patent is incorporated in this
application by reference. The recess and driver of the '645 patent are constructed with
spirally configured engaging surfaces that are substantially aligned parallel with the axis
of the fastener and may be classified generically as a straight walled fastener system. A
more robust embodiment of the spiral drive fastener system is described in U.S. patent
application publication 2009-0104002 (Dilling), commonly owned with the subject
                                                         3
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

application. The disclosure of the Dilling application is also incorporated herein by
reference.
[0009]                     The advantages of the invention described in the '645 patent are achieved
by configuring the driving and driven surfaces of the driver and fastener, respectively, to
conform to a segment of a spiral and, particularly, in a spiral configuration that enables a
substantial and generous clearance between the driver and the recess during insertion and
removal of the driver, but in which the fully seated driver is permitted to rotate to take up
that clearance. The spiral configurations of the drive walls of the driver and the driver
engageable walls of the recess are such that when the spiral walls engage, they do so over
a relatively broad area thereby applying and distributing the stress over that broad area.
The spirally configured driving and driven walls are oriented to direct a major portion of
the applied torque substantially normal to the fastener radius with little, if any, reliance
on frictional, near-tangential engagement.
[0010]                     Another example of a straight walled fastener system is the system
described in U.S. patent 3,584,667, issued to Reiland. This reference is incorporated
herein by reference. The Reiland '667 patent describes a fastener system in which the
driving surface geometries consist of a series of semi-cylindrical surfaces arranged
substantially in the shape of a hexagon. The Reiland fastener systems are generically
referred to as hex-lobular and have driving surfaces that are parallel with the axis of the
fastener.
[0011]                     Although straight walled fasteners are in successful general use in many
applications, they may experience difficulties resulting from axially misalignment
between driver and fastener. In addition it has been difficult to obtain a reliable friction
engagement that provides a stick fit feature. A stick fit feature is desired to hold the
fastener on the driver in alignment, while the installation of the fastener is initiated. This
                                                         4
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

is especially useful in high volume assembly line operations that use power driven bits to
apply torque to the fastener. Axial alignment and stick fit are also important as the
fastener length is extended.
[0012]                     In many applications in which a straight walled drive system is used, the
driver may be power driven or required to be inserted in locations of limited access. In
such situations, there is a need to releasably engage the fastener on the driver in advance
of installation so that the driver can be used as an insertion tool, as well as a driver. This
"stick fit" feature has been attempted in several different types of fasteners, for example,
in fastener/driver systems having a cruciform (cross shaped geometry), several are shown
in US patents 6,199,455 and 4,457,654. A fastener system having a square drive
geometry is illustrated in US patent 4,084,478. It is observed that the stick fit efforts
focus on the drive surfaces.
[0013]                     The "stick fit" feature allows the fastener to be releasably engaged on the
driver to enable manipulation of the driver and fastener as a unit in hard to reach,
automated, and other applications. Once installed, the fastener and driver may be
disengaged with minimal effort.
[0014]                     The reference Larson, U.S. patent 4,269,246 is of interest in that it
employs a partially tapered driver to enhance engagement. In Larson, the internal radius
of the driver flutes are disposed parallel to the axis of the driver while the crest of the
lobe is tapered inward toward the tip. The expressed purpose of this is to avoid
premature interference between bit and recess. It is observed that the configuration
results in a line contact between driver and recess both circumferentially and axially and
will not enhance stability or frictional engagement. Only the bit is tapered with no
change to the recess geometry.
                                                          5
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

[0015]                     Also of interest is the reference Goss, U.S. patent 5,461,952. In Goss a
trailing side wall of the driver is tapered to provide a gradually thickening lobe geometry
that generates a friction engagement on a drive surface. Since only one side wall is
tapered the engagement with the straight sided drive surface becomes a circumferential
line contact. Again only the bit is reconfigured. This is because there is a reluctance to
alter the recess geometry as it would result in a loss of compatibility with existing drivers.
Backward compatibility is a design advantage in any of the fastener systems, in particular
straight walled systems.
[0016]                     A fastener system configured to provide stick fit in a straight walled
fastener is described in the reference Dilling, U.S. patent 7,293,949, commonly owned
with this application. In Dilling interference surfaces are constructed on inner non
driving transition surfaces between the wings of the fastener recess. It has been found
that an improved stick fit feature may be obtained using a standard driver for this type of
fastener system, using the interference surface on the so called "B" dimension of the
recess.
SUMMARY
[0017]                     In one aspect, the invention provides a fastener system comprising:
a fastener having a head and a shank, the fastener having a central longitudinal axis,
wherein the head is constructed having a projection extending axially outward therefrom,
the projection including a central portion and a plurality of lobes radiating outwardly
from the central portion, each of the lobes having an installation driving surface and a
removal driving surface, separated by a- transition contour, the transition contour forming
the radially outward-most portion of the fastener projection lobe;
                                                           6
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

a driver having a driver bit end, the driver having a central longitudinal axis, wherein the
driver bit end is constructed as a recessed socket, the recessed socket having a central
portion and a plurality of driver straight sides, the plurality of wings radiating outwardly
from the central portion, each of the wings having an installation driving surface and a
removal driving surface, separated by a transition contour, the transition contour forming
the radially outward-most portion of the fastener projection lobe, and wherein the
recessed socket is adapted to receive the fastener head projection such that the driver
installation and removal driving surfaces receive the fastener installation and removal
driving surfaces in a mated engagement;
an interference interface including:
a projection interference contour, wherein the projection interference contour is tapered
inward, toward a tip of the fastener head projection, with respect to the central
longitudinal axis of the fastener at a fastener taper angle; and
a recess interference contour, wherein the recess interference contour is tapered inward,
toward a bottom of the recessed socket, with respect to the central longitudinal axis of the
driver at a driver taper angle,
wherein the fastener taper angle is larger than the driver taper angle, and wherein the
recess interference contour and the projection interference contour are constructed to
form a frictional mated engagement at the interference interface when the fastener head
projection and the recessed socket are in the mated engagement.
[0018]                      In another aspect, the invention also provides a method of constructing a
fastener system comprising:
                                                          7
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

forming a fastener having a head and a shank, the fastener having a central longitudinal
axis, wherein the head is constructed having a projection extending axially outward
therefrom, the projection including a central portion and a plurality of lobes radiating
outwardly from the central portion, each of the lobes having an installation driving
surface and a removal driving surface, separated by a transition contour, the transition
contour forming the radially outward-most portion of the fastener projection lobe;
forming a driver having a driver bit end, the driver having a central longitudinal axis,
wherein the driver bit end is constructed as a recessed socket, the recessed socket having
a central portion and a plurality of wings radiating outwardly from the central portion,
each of the wings having an installation driving surface and a removal driving surface,
separated by a transition contour, the transition contour forming the radially outward
most portion of the fastener projection lobe, and wherein the recessed socket is adapted to
receive the fastener head projection such that the driver installation and removal driving
surfaces receive the fastener installation and removal driving surfaces in a mated
engagement;
forming at least one an interference interface including:
             forming a projection interference contour, wherein the a projection interference
             contour is tapered inward, toward a tip of the fastener head projection, with
             respect to the central longitudinal axis of the fastener at a fastener taper angle; and
             forming a recess interference contour, wherein the recess interference contour is
             tapered inward, toward a bottom of the recessed socket, with respect to the central
             longitudinal axis of the driver at a driver taper angle,
                                                     8
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

wherein the fastener taper angle is larger than the driver taper angle, and wherein the
recess interference contour and the projection interference contour are constructed to
form a frictional mated engagement at the interference interface when the fastener head
projection and the recessed socket are in the mated engagement.
[0019]                      Various embodiments described herein provide a fastener system having
straight walled driving surfaces that provides a reliable stick fit feature, while also
improving stability of engagement between the system components. An important
feature of the new system is to allow engagement of existing standard straight walled
drivers in the new system. In order to accomplish this goal, a new driver and recess
system is constructed as described below.
[0020]                     The straight walled fastener systems of this application are generally
constructed with a recess having multiple wings extending radially outward from a
central axis and a driver having matching multiple lobes that mate with the wings of the
recess. Each of the wings and lobes have drive surfaces consisting of an installation
surface and a removal surface depending on the direction of torque applied. These drive
surfaces are constructed substantially in a parallel aligned relation to the central axis of
the fastener system. Adjacent wings or lobes are separated at the outer radius by a non
driving transition surfaces. The diameter formed by the outer radius will be referred to
herein as the "A" dimension, as shown in the figures.
[0021]                     To generate an interference fit and provide stick fit, a substantially flat
interference contour is formed on the "A" dimension surface of the driver lobes and a
mating interference contour is formed on the opposing "A" dimension surface of the
recess wings. The recess is enlarged relative to the standard straight walled recess to
provide room for engagement of a standard straight walled driver without interference
with the recess wing interference contour. The artisan will understand that reference
                                                         9
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

herein to a "standard" driver and recess refers to the prevailing industry accepted sizes in
the relevant market. It should be noted that the stick fit and alignment advantage is not
obtained when a standard driver is used to engage the fastener, but backwards capability
is provided in this manner, so as to allow the use of a standard driver in the recess of this
application.
[0022]                     To form the mating interface of the driver and fastener, the driver lobe
interference surface and the recess wing interference surface are tapered inward. The
interface tapers radially outward from the bottom of the recess to a distance slightly
below the height of the recess. The interference contours may be substantially flat to
maximize the surface to surface engagement. However, to facilitate construction, these
contours will have a slight curvature with a relatively large radius to allow a turning
process to be used.
[0023]                     In this manner, stick fit is provided, while stability of the engagement of
driver and recess is enhanced. In addition, by enlarging the dimensions slightly, relative
to a standard recess of a straight walled fastener system, the use of a standard driver is
allowed. However, as indicated above there will be no stick fit engagement, when using
a standard driver.
[0024]                     More specifically, one aspect of the invention provides a fastener system
comprising:
             a fastener having a head and a shank, the fastener having a central longitudinal
axis, wherein the head is constructed having a projection extending axially outward
therefrom, the projection including a central portion and a plurality of fastener straight
sides, the plurality of fastener straight sides each having a fastener side surface that is in
substantially parallel alignment with the central longitudinal axis of the fastener;
                                                           10
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

             a driver having a driver bit end, the driver having a central longitudinal axis,
wherein the driver bit end is constructed as a recessed socket, the recessed socket having
a central portion and a plurality of driver straight sides, the plurality of driver straight
sides each having a driver side surface in substantially parallel alignment with the central
longitudinal axis of the driver, and wherein the recessed socket is adapted to receive the
fastener head projection such that the driver driving surfaces receive the fastener driving
surfaces in a mated engagement;
             an interference interface including:
                            a fastener interference contour, wherein the fastener interference contour
             is tapered inward, toward a tip of the fastener head projection, with respect to the
             central longitudinal axis of the fastener at a fastener taper angle; and
                            a driver interference contour formed, wherein the driver interference
             contour is tapered inward, toward a bottom of the recessed socket, with respect to
             the central longitudinal axis of the driver at a driver taper angle, wherein the
             fastener taper angle is larger than the driver taper angle, and
             wherein the driver interference contour and the fastener interference contour are
constructed to form a frictional mated engagement when the fastener head projection and
the recessed socket are in the mated engagement.
[0025]                     Another aspect of the invention provides a method of constructing a
fastener system comprising:
             forming a fastener having a head and a shank, the fastener having a central
longitudinal axis, wherein the head is constructed having a projection extending axially
                                                          11
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

outward therefrom, the projection including a central portion and a plurality of fastener
straight sides, the plurality of fastener straight sides each having a fastener side surface
that is in substantially parallel alignment with the central longitudinal axis of the fastener;
             forming a driver having a driver bit end, the driver having a central longitudinal
axis, wherein the driver bit end is constructed as a recessed socket, the recessed socket
having a central portion and a plurality of driver straight sides, the plurality of driver
straight sides each having a driver side surface in substantially parallel alignment with the
central longitudinal axis, and wherein the recessed socket is adapted to receive the
fastener head projection such that the driver driving surfaces receive the fastener driving
surfaces in a mated engagement;
             forming an interference interface including:
                            forming a fastener interference contour, wherein the fastener interference
             contour is tapered inward, toward a tip of the fastener head projection, with
             respect to the central longitudinal axis of the fastener at a fastener taper angle; and
                            forming a driver interference contour, wherein the driver interference
             contour is tapered inward, toward a bottom of the recessed socket, with respect to
             the central longitudinal axis of the driver at a driver taper angle,
             wherein the fastener taper angle is larger than the driver taper angle, and wherein
the driver interference contour and the fastener interference contour are constructed to
form a frictional mated engagement at the interference interface when the fastener head
projection and the recessed socket are in the mated engagement.
[0026]                     In another aspect, there is provided a fastener comprising:
                                                          12
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

             a head and a shank having a central longitudinal axis, wherein the head is
             constructed having a central portion and a plurality of wings radiating outwardly
             from the central portion, each of the wings having an installation driving surface
             and a removal driving surface, separated by a non-driving transition contour, the
             non-driving transition contour forming the radially outward-most portion of the
             wing, and wherein the driving surfaces are constructed in substantially parallel
             alignment with the central longitudinal axis of the fastener; and
             a wedge formed in the non-driving transition contour of the fastener wings to
             present a tapered interface surface,
             wherein the tapered interface surface is tapered at an angle in the range of about
             one degree (10) to about three degrees (3).
[0027]                     In an alternative aspect, there is provided a fastener system comprising:
             a fastener having a head and a shank, the fastener having a central longitudinal
             axis, wherein the head is constructed having a projection extending axially
             outward therefrom, the projection including fastener drive surfaces for installation
             and removal, and wherein the fastener drive surfaces are constructed in
             substantially parallel alignment with the central longitudinal axis of the fastener;
             a driver having a driver bit end, the driver having a central longitudinal axis,
             wherein the bit end is constructed as a recessed socket, the recessed socket having
             driver drive surfaces for installation and removal, and wherein the driver drive
             surfaces are constructed in substantially parallel alignment with the central
             longitudinal axis of the driver, and wherein the recessed socket is adapted to
                                                          13
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

             receive the fastener head projection such that the driver drive surfaces receive the
             fastener drive surfaces in a mated engagement;
             an interference interface including:
                                   a fastener interference contour formed in at least one of the
             fastener drive surfaces, wherein the fastener interference contour is tapered
             inward, toward a tip of the fastener head projection, with respect to the central
             longitudinal axis of the fastener at a fastener taper angle; and
                                   a driver interference contour formed in at least one of the driver
             drive surfaces, wherein the driver interference contour is tapered inward, toward a
             bottom of the recessed socket, with respect to the central longitudinal axis of the
             driver at a driver taper angle
             wherein the fastener taper angle is larger than the driver taper angle, and wherein
             the driver interference contour and the fastener interference contour are
             constructed to form a frictional mated engagement when the fastener head
             projection and the recessed socket are in the mated engagement.
[0028]                     In a further alternative aspect, there is provided a method of constructing a
fastener system comprising:
             forming a fastener having a head and a shank, the fastener having a central
             longitudinal axis, wherein the head is constructed having a projection extending
             axially outward therefrom, the projection including fastener drive surfaces for
             installation and removal, and wherein the fastener drive surfaces are constructed
                                                          14
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

             in substantially parallel alignment with the central longitudinal axis of the
             fastener;
             forming a driver having a driver bit end, the driver having a central longitudinal
axis, wherein the driver bit end is constructed as a recessed socket, the recessed socket
having driver drive surfaces for installation and removal, and wherein the driver drive
surfaces are constructed in substantially parallel alignment with the central longitudinal
axis, and wherein the recessed socket is adapted to receive the fastener head projection
such that the driver drive surfaces receive the fastener drive surfaces in a mated
engagement;
             forming an interference interface including:
                                  forming a fastener interference contour in at least one of the
             fastener drive surfaces, wherein the fastener interference contour is tapered
             inward, toward a tip of the fastener head projection, with respect to the central
             longitudinal axis of the fastener at a fastener taper angle; and
                                  forming a driver interference contour in at least one of the driver
             drive surfaces, wherein the driver interference contour is tapered inward, toward a
             bottom of the recessed socket, with respect to the central longitudinal axis of the
             driver at a driver taper angle
             wherein the fastener taper angle is larger than the driver taper angle, and wherein
             the driver interference contour and the fastener interference contour are
             constructed to form a frictional mated engagement at the interference interface
             when the fastener head projection and the recessed socket are in the mated
             engagement.
                                                        15
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

[0029]                     Another aspect of the invention provides a punch for forming the head end
of a recessed head fastener comprising:
             a body having a face configured to form and defined the outer contour of the
             head;
             a nib integral with the body and extending from the face, the nib having a central
             longitudinal axis, wherein the nib is constructed having a central portion and a
             plurality of wings radiating outwardly from the central portion, each of the wings
             having a surface configured to form an installation driving surface and a removal
             driving surface, separated by a non-driving transition contour, the non-driving
             transition contour forming the radially outward-most portion of the wing, and
             wherein the driving surfaces are constructed in substantially parallel alignment
             with the central longitudinal axis; and
             a wedge formed in the non-driving transition contour of the wings to present a
             tapered interface surface,
             wherein the tapered interface surface is tapered at an angle in the range of about
             one degree (10) to about three degrees (3).
[0030]                     Further aspects of the invention are described in the following description,
drawings and claims.
[0031]                     In one embodiment of this application, the straight walled fastener system
is configured with the drive surface geometry of a hex-lobular fastener system, as
described in the reference Reiland, cited above.
                                                         16
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

[0032]                     In another embodiment of this application, the straight walled fastener
system is configured having a drive surface geometry of a spiral, as described in the
reference Stacy, cited above.
[0033]                     In another embodiment of this application, the straight walled fastener
system is configured having a drive surface geometry of a spiral, as described in the
published application of Dilling, cited above.
[0034]                     In another embodiment of this application, the fastener is constructed
having externally accessed driver surfaces and the driver is constructed with a mating
socket.
[0035]                     In another aspect of the invention a punch is provided for forming a recess
in the head of a fastener blank in which the punch includes a main body having an end
contoured to form a portion of the fastener head and a nib adapted to form the recess of
the invention in a conventional two-blow header technique. The radial extending wings
of the nib may include one or two spiral surfaces adapted to form complementary
surfaces when impacted against the head end of the fastener.
[0036]                     These and other features and advantages of the invention will be more
clearly understood from the following detailed description and drawing of embodiments
of the present application.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0037]                     FIG. 1 is perspective view of a fastener having a spirally configured drive
surfaces, according to the prior art.
                                                         17
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

[0038]                     FIG. 2 is a schematic view of the engagement geometries of a hex-lobular
drive system constructed according to a first embodiment.
[0039]                     FIG. 3 is a top view of a driver configured to drive the fastener of FIG. 2.
[0040]                     FIG. 4 is a side view of the driver of FIG. 2.
[0041]                     FIG. 5 is a top view of a fastener having a recess according to the
embodiment of FIG. 2.
[0042]                     FIG. 6 is a taken along section line VI-VI of FIG. 5.
[0043]                     FIG. 7 is a perspective view of the special driver and fastener of FIG. 2.
[0044]                     FIG. 8 is a schematic view of the engagement geometries of a spiral drive
system constructed according to a second embodiment.
[0045]                     FIG. 9 is a top view of a driver configured to drive the fastener of FIG. 8.
[0046]                     FIG. 10 is a side view of the driver of FIG. 8.
[0047]                     FIG. 11 is a top view of a fastener having a recess according to the
embodiment of FIG. 8.
[0048]                     FIG. 12 is a view taken along section line XII-XII of FIG. 11.
[0049]                     FIG. 13 is a perspective view of the special driver and fastener of FIG. 8.
[0050]                     FIG. 14 is a perspective view of a third embodiment showing a hex lobular
drive system in which the fastener has external drive surfaces.
                                                          18
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

[0051]                     FIG. 15 is a perspective view of a fourth embodiment showing a spiral
drive system in which the fastener has external drive surfaces.
[0052]                     FIG. 16 is a schematic view of a fifth embodiment of the fastener system
of FIG. 2 with stick interface surfaces on four lobes and wings.
[0053]                     FIG. 17 is a schematic view of a sixth embodiment of the fastener system
of FIG. 2 with stick fit interface surfaces on three lobes and wings.
[0054]                     FIGS. 18 through 21 are perspective views of embodiments showing a hex
head drive system in which the fastener has external drive surfaces.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0055]                     Although the present invention will be described with reference to the
embodiments shown in the drawings, it should be understood that the present invention
may have alternate forms. In addition, any suitable size, shape or type of elements or
materials could be used.
[0056]                     FIG. 1 illustrates an example of a threaded fastener having straight walled
drive surfaces of the prior art. The term "straight walled drive surfaces" is used herein to
refer to fastener systems in which the driving surfaces are substantially in alignment, i.e.
parallel with the longitudinal axis of the fastener. It is accepted in the fastener industry
that statements, such as "parallel alignment" are subject to some deviation tolerances, as
it is understood that such alignment is subject to manufacturing tolerances and may vary
slightly in actual practice. In particular, FIG. 1 illustrates fasteners as described in the
published application to Dilling referenced above. In general, fastener systems of this
type are constructed having a fastener 2 and a mating driver bit (not shown). The
fastener 2 is constructed having a head 4 and a threaded shank 5. In this example, a
                                                         19
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

spirally configured recess 6 is formed in the head 4 with drive surfaces aligned in parallel
with the axis z of the fastener 2 (straight walled). A driver bit is constructed having
spirally configured drive surfaces that mate with the corresponding surfaces of the
fastener recess 6. The head 4 may be formed in a conventional two-blow header machine
in which the end of the wire or other material from which the fastener is made is
supported in a die of the header machine and its head end is impacted, first with a punch
that partially forms the head, and then with a finishing punch that finishes the head and
forms the driver-engageable recess. The general construction of fasteners is well known
and will not be described further in this application. An assortment of such well known
methods can be used to construct the subject fastener system.
[0057]                     Fasteners are constructed in many different configurations and the
application of the subject matter of this application is not intended to be limited to any
particular type. For example, some fasteners do not have heads that clamp the work
piece to the substrate. They may use a second threaded section to engage the work piece,
instead. Whereas the illustrated fasteners have clamping heads, the advantages provided
by the configurations illustrated may be obtained in other fastener types such as non
clamping fasters and others.
[0058]                       The features of a first embodiment are shown in FIG. 2 in which the
profile geometries of a recess 10, a special driver 11, and a standard driver 12 are shown
in the engaged relationship. For illustration, the Cartesian axes V and S perpendicular to
the central longitudinal axis are shown in FIG. 2 and other figures. The contour of the
standard driver 12 is shown in FIG. 2 in dotted lines where it differs from the contour of
the special driver 11. Although, in this particular illustration, the geometry is similar to
the hex-lobular type fastener systems of the Reiland reference cited above, it is intended
only as an example of the use of the subject invention in a straight walled fastener
                                                          20
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

system. FIG. 2 is, of course, not intended to indicate that both drivers may be used at the
same time, but only to illustrate the relative position of the special driver and standard
driver when engaged in the fastener recess. The clearances are exaggerated for purposes
of illustration. There will be no clearance at the interface 19 between the special driver
and recess. The frictional engagement will occur slightly inward of the top 27 of the
fastener recess 10.
[0059]                     As shown in FIG. 2, the driver 11 is constructed with an interference
contour 13 formed on the "A" dimension surface of the driver lobes 14. Fastener recess
10 is constructed with a mating interference contour 15 formed on the opposing "A"
dimension surface of the recess wings 16. The recess is enlarged relative to a standard
hex lobular recess (not shown) to provide a sufficient clearance 18 for a standard hex
lobular driver 12 to be received in the recess 10 without interference with the recess wing
interference contour 15. In one embodiment, only the "A" dimension contour is
enlarged, while the "B" dimension contour is held to the standard recess size for a
fastener of the type illustrated in FIG. 2. This improves the stability of the alignment of
both the special driver and the standard driver. The geometry of a standard recess 30 is
shown according to the embodiment in which only the "A" dimension is expanded. The
contour of the standard recess 30 is shown in FIG. 2 in dotted lines where it differs from
the contour of the special recess 10. When engaged, the driver 11 and the recess 10 form
an interface 19 between the driver lobe interference surface 13 and the fastener wing
interference surface 15. It should be noted that the interface surfaces 13 and 15, thus
formed, are non-driving surfaces.
[0060]                     The interference surfaces 13 and 15 are constructed to provide a
significant surface to surface engagement at an interface 19. The contours are matching
to further facilitate this engagement. In the construction of the interference contours, a
                                                        21
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

machining process will be performed by which a slight curvature will be formed.
Because of the large radius of curvature used in the preferred embodiment, these contours
may be considered "substantially flat, however, the interface contours may be more
curved and still accomplish the advantages of the subject fastener system.
[0061]                     The details of the improved driver 11 of FIG. 2 are shown in FIGS. 3 and
4 with like reference numerals identifying like elements. A driver 11 is constructed, as
indicated above, having an interference contour 13 formed at the crest of each lobe 14 at
the "A" dimension of the driver geometry. These surfaces are non-driving surfaces that
provide a transition contour between the installation and removal driving surfaces 20 and
21 respectively. The interference contour 13 gradually tapers inward, towards a tip 22 of
the driver 11, at an angle 0 to the central longitudinal axis x of the driver 11. The angle 0
preferably may be in the range of about 1 to about 3' depending on the angle of the
recess interference surface (or wedge) 15.
[0062]                     As shown in FIGS. 5 and 6, the recess 10 is constructed in the top surface
27 of the fastener having a mating interference contour 15 located at the opposing "A"
dimension of each of the wings 16 of the recess 10. These surfaces are non-driving
surfaces that provide a transition contour between the installation and removal driving
surfaces 23 and 24 respectively. The recess wing interference contour 15 gradually
tapers inward (towards the central longitudinal axis y), towards the bottom 25 of the
recess 10. The interference contour 15 begins at a point 26 slightly below the top 27 of
the recess 10 and continues for a depth d, which for small angles approximates the taper
length. This provides a small clearance between the driver 11 and the recess 10 upon
initial insertion. The interference contour 15 tapers inward at an angle (Dto the central
longitudinal axis y of the fastener. The angle (Dpreferably may be in the range of about
                                                        22
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

one degree (1) to about three degrees (30) depending on the angle of the driver lobe
interference contour 13.
[0063]                     To insure the establishment of an effective stick fit feature, the
interference contours 13 and 15 are tapered inward, from top to bottom relative to the
recess, at angles preferably in the range of about one degree (10) to about three degrees
(3),      however, it has been found that the angles $ and 0 should not be exactly the same,
but the angle 0 should be slightly larger than the angle (D. Preferably, the difference
between the angle 0 and the angle (F is from about one quarter degree (0.250) to about
three quarters degree (0.75 ), and more preferably about one half degree (0.50).
Depending on the size of the screws and thus the depth of its recess, it may be desirable
to make the angle 0 and the angle 1)larger or smaller. For size one to size three recesses
and drivers currently prevalent in the building supply market, about three degrees (30) is
preferable. For larger size drivers and recesses, about four degrees (40) may be more
preferable. And as the screw recess and driver sizes get larger, larger angles may be
preferable. For standard recess and driver sizes in the building supply market, the angle 0
and the angle (D of from about one half degree (0.5 0 ).to about seven degrees (70) is
preferable. The taper length gets shorter as the angle gets bigger. It is advantageous to
taper in or out across the "A" dimension about ten percent (10%) of the depth d of the
taper length
[0064]                     As an example, an angle D of one and one half degrees (1.50) and an angle
0 of two degrees (20) would provide an effective interference. Stick fit can also be
reliably constructed during manufacturing by maintaining the driver "A" dimension
within a positive tolerance of, for example, plus zero (+0) to plus two thousandths
(+.002) inch, while forming the "A" dimension of the recess with a negative tolerance of,
for example minus zero (-0) to minus two thousandths (-.002) inch. As another example,
                                                        23
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

one can specify the geometry tolerances as follows: for the recess angle $, plus one
quarter degree (+0.250), minus zero degree (-0.0); and for the driver angle 0, plus zero
degree (+0.0'), minus one quarter degree (-0.25'). The interface tapers radially outward
from the bottom of the recess to a distance slightly below the height of the recess. To
facilitate a stick fit engagement of the driver and recess, the taper angle 0 of the driver
lobe interference contours may be constructed slightly larger than the taper angle (D of the
recess wing interference contours, as indicated above.
[0065]                     The profile geometries of another embodiment are illustrated in FIG. 8. In
FIG. 8, a recess 110 is shown having a straight walled driver surfaces with spiral
contours. A special driver 111, and a standard driver 112 are shown in the engaged
relationship. The clearances are exaggerated for purposes of illustration. Similarly to the
first embodiment, there will be no clearance at the interface 119 between the special
driver 111 and the recess 110. The frictional engagement will occur slightly inward of
the top of the fastener recess 110
[0066]                     As shown in FIG. 8, the driver 111 is constructed with an interference
contour 113 formed on the "A" dimension surface of the driver lobes 114. The fastener
recess 110 is constructed with a matching interference contour 115 formed on the
opposing "A" dimension surface of the recess wings 116. The recess is enlarged relative
to a standard hex lobular recess (not shown, but similar to that shown for the embodiment
of FIG. 2) to provide a sufficient clearance 118 for the standard spiral driver 112 to be
received in the recess 110 without interference with the recess wing interference contour
115. In one embodiment, only the "A" dimension contour is enlarged, while the "B"
dimension contour is held to the standard recess size for a fastener of the type illustrated
in FIG. 8. When engaged, the driver 111 and the recess 110 form an interface 119
                                                       24
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

between the interference contours 113 and 115 respectively. It should be noted that the
interface surfaces 113 and 115, thus formed, are non-driving surfaces.
[0067]                     The interference contours 113 and 115 are constructed to provide a
significant surface to surface engagement at the interface 119. The contours are matching
to further facilitate this engagement. In the construction of the interference contours, a
machining process will be performed by which a slight curvature will be formed.
Because of the large radius of curvature used in the preferred embodiment, these contours
may be considered "substantially flat, however, the interface contours may be more
curved and still accomplish the advantages of the subject fastener system.
[0068]                     The details of the improved driver 111 of FIG. 8 are shown in FIGS. 9 and
10 with like reference numerals identifying like elements. The driver 111 is constructed,
as indicated above, having an interference contour 113 formed at the crest of each lobe
 114 at the "A" dimension of the driver geometry. These surfaces are non-driving
surfaces that provide a transition contour between the installation and removal surfaces
120 and 121 respectively. The interference contour 113 gradually tapers inward, towards
the tip 122 of the driver 111, at an angle 0 to the longitudinal axis x of the driver 111.
The angle 0, preferably may be in the range of about one degree (10) to about three
degrees (30) depending on the angle of the recess wing interference contour 115.
[0069]                     As shown in FIG. 10, the recess 110 is constructed in the top surface 127
of the fastener having a matching interference contour 115 located at the opposing "A"
dimension of each of the wings 116 of the recess 110. These surfaces are non-driving
surfaces that provide a transition contour between the installation and removal driving
surfaces 123 and 124 respectively. The interference contour 115 gradually tapers inward
(towards the axis y) towards the bottom 125 of the recess 110. The interference contour
115 begins at a point 126 slightly below the top 127 of the recess 110 and continues for a
                                                        25
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

depth d. This provides a small clearance between the driver 111 and the recess 110 upon
initial insertion. The interference contour 115 tapers inward at an angle q) to longitudinal
axis y of the fastener. The angle (Dpreferably may be in the range of about one degree
(1P) to about three degrees (30) depending on the angle of the driver interference contour
113.
[0070]                     To insure the establishment of an effective stick fit feature in this
embodiment, the interface contours 113 and 115 are tapered inward from top to bottom,
relative to the recess, at angles preferably in the range of about one degree (10) to about
three degrees (30), however, it has been found that the angles () and 0 should not be
exactly the same, but the angle 0 should be slightly larger than the angle q. As an
example, an angle P of one and one half degrees (1.50) and an angle 0' of two degrees
(20) would provide an effective interference. Stick fit can also be reliably constructed
during manufacturing by maintaining the driver "A" dimension within a positive
tolerance of, for example plus zero (+0) to plus two thousandths (+.002) inch, while
forming the "A" dimension of the recess with a negative tolerance of, for example minus
zero (-0) to minus two thousandths (-.002) inch. The interface tapers radially outward
from the bottom of the recess to a distance slightly below the height of the recess. To
facilitate a stick fit engagement of the driver and recess, the taper angle 0 of the driver
may be constructed slightly larger than the taper angle D of the recess, as indicated
above.
[0071]                     The above features may be applied with similar results to other straight
walled fastener systems. As another embodiment, the spiral drive system of the cited
reference Stacy may be improved by constructing an interference interface on the
opposing "A" dimension wings and lobes of the recess and driver respectively. This
                                                        26
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

embodiment will not be described further, since its operation and construction can be
obtained from the above description.
[0072]                     In the preferred embodiments, the interference contours will be
constructed on each of the driver lobe interference contours and each of the recess wing
interference contours to avoid the need for an alignment of driver and fastener in a
particular relative orientation and to facilitate manufacturing. However, in some
applications, it may be advantageous to construct the interference contours on selected
pairs of driver lobes and fastener wings with the understanding that some misalignment
may commonly occur. This can be avoided to some extent, for example, in the hex
lobular configuration, by constructing the interference contours on opposing pairs of
wings 40 and 41 and lobes 42 and 43, as shown in FIG. 16. As in FIG. 2, the contour of a
standard driver is shown in FIG. 16 in dotted lines where it differs from the contour of the
special driver, and the contour of a standard recess is shown in dotted lines where it
differs from the contour of the special recess.
[0073]                     In another embodiment of the hex lobular configuration a balanced
distribution of interface contours are constructed on three spaced wings 50, 51, and 52
and lobes, 53, 54, and 55, as shown in FIG. 17. This configuration would allow the user
to selectively use or not use the stick fit feature by either aligning or not aligning the stick
the interfaces of the driver with those of the recess. Alternatively, (not shown), the three
interface contours may be spaced asymmetrically, with two in adjacent recess lobes and
corresponding driver wings, and the third in a non-adjacent lobe and corresponding wing,
to provide engagement of at least one pair of wing and lobe interference contours no
matter how the driver is positioned rotationally with respect to the recess upon
engagement. As in FIG. 2, the contour of a standard driver is shown in FIG. 17 in dotted
                                                       27
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

lines where it differs from the contour of the special driver, and the contour of a standard
recess is shown in dotted lines where it differs from the contour of the special recess.
[0074]                     The embodiments described above are illustrated as the common form of
fastener system involving a female recess on the fastener and a male configured driver.
The interference contours of the subject fastener system, however, can be applied as well
to the opposite arrangement, as shown in FIGS. 14 and 15. A fastener system having hex
lobular, straight walled drive surfaces is shown in FIG. 14. In this embodiment the
fastener is constructed having a projection 211 extending axially outward from the
fastener head for engagement with a driver 210. The driver 210 is constructed with a
female socket having matching drive surfaces for engagement with the drive surfaces of
the projection 211. In this embodiment, projection interference contours 213 are
constructed on the "A" dimension surface of the lobes 214 of the fastener projection 211
and recess interference surfaces 215 are constructed on the opposing "A" dimension
surface of the wings 216 of the driver socket 210.
[0075]                     A further embodiment of an external drive version of the subject fastener
system is shown in FIG. 15 in which a spiral drive fastener system is illustrated. In the
spiral drive, straight walled fastener system of FIG. 15, a projection 311 is constructed
extending axially outward from the fastener head for engagement with a driver socket
310. The driver socket 310 is constructed with matching drive surfaces for engagement
with the drive surfaces of the projection 311. In this embodiment, projection interference
contours 313 are constructed on the "A" dimension surface of the lobes 314 of the
fastener projection 311 and recess interference contours 315 are constructed on the
opposing "A" dimension surface of the wings 316 of the driver socket 310. In this
manner the alignment stability and reliable stick fit is obtained in an externally driven
fastener system.
                                                      28
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

[0076]                     Further embodiments of an external drive fastener system are shown in
FIGS. 18 through 21 in which a hex head drive fastener system is illustrated. In the hex
head drive, straight walled fastener system of FIG. 18, a projection 411 is constructed
extending axially outward from the fastener head for engagement with a driver socket
410. The driver socket 410 is constructed with matching drive surfaces for engagement
with the drive surfaces of projection 411. In this embodiment, fastener interference
contours 413 are constructed on the surface of the sides 419 of the projection 411 and
recess interference contours 418 are constructed on the opposing surface of the sides 415
of socket 410. In this manner the alignment stability and reliable stick fit is obtained in
an externally driven hex head fastener system. In FIG. 19, the contours 413 are shown
positioned at the lower portion of surface 419, however the portions 413 could be
positioned higher could be sized to extend over a larger or smaller portion of the surfaces
419, with the contours 418 positioned and sized to match accordingly.
[0077]                     In the hex head drive, straight walled fastener system of FIG. 19, a
projection 511 is constructed extending axially outward from the fastener head for
engagement with a driver socket 510. The driver socket 510 is constructed with
matching drive surfaces for engagement with the drive surfaces of the projection 511. In
this embodiment, fastener interference contours 513 are constructed on the surface of the
sides 519 of the projection 511 and recess interference contours 518 are constructed on
the opposing surface of the sides 515 of the socket 510. The system shown in FIG. 19 is
similar to that of FIG. 18, however the contours 513 and 518 extend over only a portion
of the surfaces 519 and 515, respectively. In FIG. 19, the contours 513 are shown
positioned at the lower center portion of the surfaces 519, however the portions 513 could
be positioned higher or to one side and/or could be sized to extend over larger or smaller
portions of the surfaces 519, with the contours 518 positioned and sized to match
accordingly.
                                                         29
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

[0078]                     In the hex head drive, straight walled fastener system of FIG. 20, a
projection 611 is constructed extending axially outward from the fastener head for
engagement with a driver socket 610. The driver socket 610 is constructed with
matching drive surfaces for engagement with the drive surfaces of the projection 611. In
this embodiment, the fastener interference contours 613 are constructed on the surface of
the sides 619 of the projection 611 at the corners 617 between two adjacent sides 619,
and the recess interference contours 618 are constructed on the opposing surfaces of the
sides 615 of the socket 610 at the corners 614 between two adjacent sides 615.
[0079]                     In the hex head drive, straight walled fastener system of FIG. 21, a
projection 711 is constructed extending axially outward from the fastener head for
engagement with a driver socket 710. The driver socket 710 is constructed with
matching drive surfaces for engagement with the drive surfaces of projection 711. In this
embodiment, fastener interference contours 713 are constructed on the surface of the
sides 719 of projection 711 at the corners 717 between two adjacent sides 719, and recess
interference contours 718 are constructed on the opposing surface of the sides 715 of
socket 710 at the comers 714 between two adjacent sides 715. The system shown in FIG.
21 is similar to that of FIG. 20, however the surface 713 begins its taper at a location
below the top of the projection 711, namely, at the bottom of the straight wall portion
720.
[0080]                     The drivers and recesses of the present application may be manufactured
in a conventional two-blow header machine. The punch typically will be formed to
include a body and a nib that corresponds substantially to the geometry of the driver,
illustrated in FIGS. 4 and 10. Punches may be formed according to conventional punch
forming techniques such as use of hobbing dies. Drivers in accordance with the
invention also can be manufactured using conventional techniques, such as by stamping a
                                                         30
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

driver blank with one or more shaped dies to form the desired shape wings or, by milling
the driver bit using specially shaped milling cutters.
[0081]                     The above description and drawings are only to be considered illustrative
of specific embodiments, which achieve the features and advantages described herein.
Modifications and substitutions for specific conditions and materials can be made.
Accordingly, the embodiments are not considered as being limited by the foregoing
description and drawings, but is only limited by the scope of the appended claims.
[0082]                     In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the
invention, except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or
necessary implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated
features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various
embodiments of the invention.
[0083]                     It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein,
such reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
                                                           31
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

Claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.           A fastener system comprising:
             a fastener having a head and a shank, the fastener having a central longitudinal
             axis, wherein the head is constructed having a projection extending axially
             outward therefrom, the projection including a central portion and a plurality of
             lobes radiating outwardly from the central portion, each of the lobes having an
             installation driving surface and a removal driving surface, separated by a
             transition contour, the transition contour forming the radially outward-most
             portion of the fastener projection lobe;
             a driver having a driver bit end, the driver having a central longitudinal axis,
             wherein the driver bit end is constructed as a recessed socket, the recessed socket
             having a central portion and a plurality of driver straight sides, the plurality of
             wings radiating outwardly from the central portion, each of the wings having an
             installation driving surface and a removal driving surface, separated by a
             transition contour, the transition contour forming the radially outward-most
             portion of the fastener projection lobe, and wherein the recessed socket is adapted
             to receive the fastener head projection such that the driver installation and
             removal driving surfaces receive the fastener installation and removal driving
             surfaces in a mated engagement;
             at least one interference interface including:
                            a projection interference contour, wherein the projection interference
             contour is tapered inward, toward a tip of the fastener head projection, with
             respect to the central longitudinal axis of the fastener at a fastener taper angle; and
                                                         32
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

             a recess interference contour, wherein the recess interference contour is tapered
             inward, toward a bottom of the recessed socket, with respect to the central
             longitudinal axis of the driver at a driver taper angle,
             wherein the fastener taper angle is larger than the driver taper angle, and wherein
             the recess interference contour and the projection interference contour are
             constructed to form a frictional mated engagement at the interference interface
             when the fastener head projection and the recessed socket are in the mated
             engagement.
2.           The fastener system according to claim 1, wherein the fastener installation and
             removal driving surfaces are constructed in substantially parallel alignment with
             the central longitudinal axis of the fastener .
3.           The fastener system according to claim 1, wherein the driver installation and
             removal driving surfaces are constructed in substantially parallel alignment with
             the central longitudinal axis of the driver.
4.           The fastener system according to claim 1, wherein the installation driving surfaces
             and the removal driving surfaces of the projection and the recess are spirally
             configured.
5.           The fastener system according to claim 1, wherein the recess interference contour
             extends a length less than the depth of the recess.
6.           The fastener system according to claim 1, wherein the dimensions of the driver
             recessed socket are enlarged to enable the enlarged recess to receive a standard
             fastener projection without binding on the driver or fastener interface contours.
                                                    33
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

7.           The fastener system according to claim 1, wherein the driver taper angle and the
             fastener taper angle are each in the range of about one degree (10) to about three
             degrees (3).
8.           The fastener system according to claim 6, wherein the distance across the driver
             recess from one transition contour to an opposite transition contour comprises the
             "A" dimension of the driver and the driver recess is enlarged by extending the
             "A" dimension.
9.           The fastener system according to claim 1, wherein the fastener taper angle is
             about one half degree (0.50) larger than the driver taper angle.
10.          The fastener system according to claim 1, wherein the driver taper angle and the
             fastener taper angle are each in the range of about one half degree (0.50) to about
             seven degrees (7).
11.          The fastener system according to claim 1, wherein the fastener system is a spiral
             head drive fastener system.
12.          The fastener system according to claim 1, wherein the driver recessed socket
             includes at least two diametrically opposed interference contours.
13.          The fastener system according to claim 1, wherein the driver recessed socket
             includes an interference contour within alternating wings.
14.          The fastener system according to claim 13, wherein the interference contours
             form a triangular configuration.
15.          A method of constructing a fastener system comprising:
                                                   34
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

             forming a fastener having a head and a shank, the fastener having a central
             longitudinal axis, wherein the head is constructed having a projection extending
             axially outward therefrom, the projection including a central portion and a
             plurality of lobes radiating outwardly from the central portion, each of the lobes
             having an installation driving surface and a removal driving surface, separated by
             a transition contour, the transition contour forming the radially outward-most
             portion of the fastener projection lobe;
             forming a driver having a driver bit end, the driver having a central longitudinal
             axis, wherein the driver bit end is constructed as a recessed socket, the recessed
             socket having a central portion and a plurality of wings radiating outwardly from
             the central portion, each of the wings having an installation driving surface and a
             removal driving surface, separated by a transition contour, the transition contour
             forming the radially outward-most portion of the fastener projection lobe,, and
             wherein the recessed socket is adapted to receive the fastener head projection such
             that the driver installation and removal driving surfaces receive the fastener
             installation and removal driving surfaces in a mated engagement;
             forming at least one an interference interface including:
                            forming a projection interference contour, wherein the projection
             interference contour is tapered inward, toward a tip of the fastener head
             projection, with respect to the central longitudinal axis of the fastener at a fastener
             taper angle; and
                            forming a recess interference contour, wherein the recess interference
             contour is tapered inward, toward a bottom of the recessed socket, with respect to
             the central longitudinal axis of the driver at a driver taper angle,
                                                         35
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

             wherein the fastener taper angle is larger than the driver taper angle, and wherein
             the recess interference contour and the projection interference contour are
             constructed to form a frictional mated engagement at the interference interface
             when the fastener head projection and the recessed socket are in the mated
             engagement.
16.          The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 15, wherein the
             fastener installation and removal driving surfaces are constructed in substantially
             parallel alignment with the central longitudinal axis of the fastener.
17.          The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 15, wherein the
             driver installation and removal driving surfaces are constructed in substantially
             parallel alignment with the central longitudinal axis of the driver.
18.          The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 15, wherein the
             installation driving surfaces and the removal driving surfaces of the projection
             and the recess are spirally configured.
19.          The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 15, wherein the
             recess interference contour extends a length less than the depth of the recess.
20.          The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 15, wherein the
             dimensions of the driver recessed socket are enlarged to enable the enlarged
             recess to receive a standard fastener projection without binding on the driver or
             fastener interface contours.
                                                   36
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

21.          The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 15, wherein the
             driver taper angle and the fastener taper angle are each in the range of about one
             degree (10) to about three degrees (3).
22.          The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 20, wherein the
             distance across the driver recess from one transition contour to an opposite
             transition contour comprises the "A" dimension of the driver and the driver recess
             is enlarged by extending the "A" dimension.
23.          The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 15, wherein the
             fastener taper angle is about one half degree (0.50) larger than the driver taper
             angle.
24.          The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 15, wherein the
             driver taper angle and the fastener taper angle are each in the range of about one
             half degree (0.50) to about seven degrees (70).
25.          The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 15, wherein the
             fastener system is a spiral head drive fastener system.
26.          The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 15, wherein the
             recess interference contour and the fastener interference contour are constructed
             with the fastener "A" dimension having a positive tolerance of plus zero (+0) to
             plus two thousands (+.002) inch, and the recess "A" dimension having a negative
             tolerance of minus zero (-0) to minus two thousands (-0.002) inch.
27.          The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 15, wherein the
             projection interference contour and the recess interference contour are constructed
                                                   37
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

             with: the driver taper angle having a tolerance of plus one quarter degree (+0.250),
             minus zero degree (-0.0); and the fastener taper angle having a tolerance of, plus
             zero degree (+0.0'), minus one quarter degree (-0.25').
28.          The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 15, wherein the
             driver recessed socket includes at least two diametrically opposed interference
             contours.
 29.         The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 15, wherein the
             driver recessed socket includes an interference contour within alternating wings.
30.          The method of constructing a fastener system according to claim 29, wherein the
             interference contours form a triangular configuration.
                                                  38
9321089_1 (GHMatters) P90625.AU.2

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
