Abstract
A sealing disc for a closure cap for containers, especially
bottle closures for liquids fermented with yeast, consists of a
plurality of layers  (1, 2, 3, 4). One of these layers  (4)
comprises an active especially metallic substance in layered or
particulate form which binds sulphur compounds in order to
reduce the formation of sulphide odours after the bottle has
been filled.

Sealing disc for a closure cap for containers, especially
bottles
The present invention relates to a sealing disc for a closure
cap for containers such as bottle closures for example which is
suitable, in particular, for bottles that are filled with
fermented juices obtained from fruit or grapes such as fruit
wines or wines.
In particular, the present invention relates to a sealing disc
with which so-called sulphide odours can be absorbed.
Sulphide odours are tainted aromas in drinks fermented with
yeast especially wines which, depending upon their stage of
development, remind one of putrid eggs, burnt rubber, burnt
onions, sweat or the like.
The reason for the occurrence of these sulphide odours is that
thiols are formed by the yeast in the course of the fermentation
process.  The initially formed thiols react with other
constituents of the drinks to produce ever more complex
sulphurous compounds which are all particularly strong smelling.
It is self-evident that such foul smells are off-putting
especially in wines.
A whole series of measures have been developed for eliminating
sulphide odours in wines.  One widely used method involves the
addition of food-compatible cuprous salts such as copper
sulphate for example because the copper ions are able to bind
the sulphur compounds.  However, such measures can only be
carried out before filling the bottles.
Not infrequently however, the sulphide odours recur even after a
successful treatment or they develop for the first time after
the bottles have been filled.  Responsible for the occurrence of
the odours in these late stages are thioacetic acid esters which
themselves are odorously inactive.  During storage, other
substances which exhibit increasingly higher odorous intensities
are formed from the thioacetic acid esters in a chain reaction.

The thioacetic acid esters giving rise to the late sulphide
odours do not react with copper ions.   They represent an
initially masked precursor stage which cannot be preventively
removed by treatment with cuprous  salts.  Consequently, even
wines which have once already been treated with cuprous salts
are not protected from a fresh occurrence of such sulphide
odours.  The economic damage which occurs due to sulphide odours
developing in the bottle, in premium wines to some extent,   is
substantial.
There was therefore a need for a measure with which sulphide
odours could be eliminated even in wines that have already been
filled into bottles.
It is self-evident that a measure of this type is not limited to
wines but is equally suitable for other drinks in which there is
a tendency for sulphide odours to form such as fruit wines,
distillates etc. for example.
In accordance with the invention, this object is achieved in the
case of a sealing disc for closure caps for containers
especially bottles in which drinks are endangered by sulphide
odours, wherein an active substance which can bind the sulphur
compounds that cause the sulphide odours is incorporated into
the sealing disc.
The sulphur compounds causing the sulphide odours are volatile
substances.   They rise upwardly in the bottle and collect in the
hollow space between the fluid level and the closure.   From
there, they come into contact with the sealing disc in the
closure cap and diffuse into it.   They thereby come into contact
with the active substance which is contained in the sealing disc
and are neutralized by the active substance.
Sealing discs for closure caps for containers such as bottles
typically have a laminate structure with layers that are usually
of different materials which fulfil different functions in the
sealing disc.   The sealing discs are inserted into the closure
caps for the bottles such as screw-caps for example, and have a
diameter that is suited to this purpose.

The closure caps can be made of metal, frequently aluminium, or
plastic.
The sealing discs serve to prevent the passage of liquid.
Furthermore, sealing discs are known which prevent a gas and
especially atmospheric oxygen from penetrating into the interior
of the bottle from the exterior and impairing the quality of the
drinks.
The sealing disc in accordance with the invention can be a
compound foil which comprises two or more layers.   In dependence
upon the particular requirements, the layers can be formed from
different materials.  They can be made of plastic, metal, foamed
material, paper and other materials if necessary.
The sealing disc contains at least one active layer
incorporating an active substance for binding or neutralizing
the sulphur compounds that are causing the sulphide odours.
The production of sealing discs which are composed of a compound
foil is in itself known.
Thus, the individual layers can be joined together so as to form
a compound foil by a laminating process, or in dependence on the
particular requirements, with the help of adhesives containing
solvents or solvent-free adhesives or solvents having an aqueous
basis or by means of an extrusion laminating process using
adhesion promoters for example.
The active substance can be a metal, a metal alloy, a metal
salt, metallic oxide or metal hydroxide or mixtures thereof
which react with the sulphur compound or the sulphur compounds.
Examples of these are copper, tin, silver, gold, antimony,
alloys thereof, their salts including the oxides and hydroxides.
The type of reaction is irrelevant as long as the sulphur
compound or sulphur compounds is or are converted into a form in
which the foul smell which characterizes the sulphide odours is
eliminated or prevented.
Preferably, the active substance is one that is generally
recognised as being safe to health and physiologically
compatible.

The active substance can be introduced into one or more of the
layers of which the compound foil is composed.
The active substance itself can be present in the form of one or
more layers.
For example, the active substance can be applied to or worked
into a plastic foil in the form of a layer.    The plastic foil
incorporating the active substance or active layer can be a
compound foil consisting of two or more layers which could also
consist of different polymers.
Examples of suitable polymers for the plastic foil incorporating
an active substance are ethylene homopolymers such as LDPE     (Low
Density Polyethylene) and HDPE   (High Density Polyethylene) for
example or linear copolymers of ethylene with one or more a
olefins comprising e.g. 3 to 14 carbon atoms such as 1-butene,
1-hexene, 1-octene and 4-methyl-1-pentene for example.     Examples
of suitable copolymers are LLDPE   (Linear Low Density
Polyethylene) and MDPE   (Medium Density Polyethylene) as well as
VLDPE  (Very Low Density Polyethylene).   Other suitable polymers
are polypropylene, unstretched polypropylene    (CPP, Cast
Polypropylene),  oriented polypropylene  (OPP, Oriented
Polypropylene),  polyamide, oriented Polyamide   (OPA, Oriented
Polyamide) or Polyethylene terephthalate   (PET).
The individual layers of the plastic foil incorporating the
active substance usually have thicknesses of between 8 and 200
pm.
If a layer of metal is used as the active substance, then this
can be applied to the plastic foil by means of conventional
sputtering or metallization processes for example.     It could
also be applied to the plastic foil in the   form of a metal
containing printing ink.    This layer of active substance usually
has a thickness of 0.5 to 30 pm.
The active substance could also be incorporated into the plastic
foil in the form of metal particles.

The sealing disc in accordance with the invention preferably
contains an oxygen-impermeable layer or gas barrier layer as a
further layer.
The oxygen-impermeable layer fulfils a dual function.   One the
one hand it prevents oxygen or other gases entering the interior
of the bottle.   On the other hand it prevents gaseous
ingredients such as alcohol for example from escaping from the
interior of the bottle to the exterior through the sealing disc.
That is disadvantageous on the one hand because the volatile
sulphur compounds causing the sulphide odours are also retained.
Nevertheless, the admission of oxygen should be prevented since
this can lead to a substantial reduction in the quality of the
wine.
The oxygen-impermeable layer can be a metal foil made of tin,
copper or aluminium for example.   It can be made of a plastic
material having gas barrier properties.   Examples for this are
plastic foils based on polyvinyl chloride or ethylene vinyl
alcohol copolymer  (EVOH).
In order not to prevent the sulphur compounds from coming into
contact with the active substance, the gas barrier layer should
be provided in the sealing disc on the side of the layer
incorporating the active substance which is remote from the
interior of the bottle.
In accordance with one embodiment, the layer incorporating the
active substance can simultaneously function as an oxygen
impermeable layer.   For example, when it is a layer consisting
of a material which functions as an active substance that binds
sulphur compounds in accordance with the invention and in
addition is impermeable to oxygen.   An example is copper.
Preferably, the sealing disc comprises a further layer
consisting of a polymer foamed material.   The polymer foamed
material can be polyethylene foamed material or polypropylene
foamed material.   The layer of foamed material usually forms the

highest layer, i.e. the top layer of the layered structure of
the sealing disc and is generally of greater thickness than any
of the other layers.  The sealing disc is advantageously covered
on the side of its highest layer of foamed material by a closure
cap or a screw-type cap.
The sealing disc can either be inserted into the closure cap or
be fixed in some other way onto the rim of the container before
sealing the closure, for example, before screwing on a screw
type cap.  For example, it could also be firstly placed on the
opening in the neck of a bottle and the closure then pushed over
it upside down.  Due to the sealing action such as screwing
down, encapsulating or fixing the closure onto the bottle neck
in some other way, a load in the form of a compressive load is
applied at the same time.  Consequently, the sealing disc is
compressed and reduced in thickness.
By virtue of the compressive force, the foamed material layer
provides the appropriate clamping pressure and thus the sealing
effect.
Due to the thickness of the layer of foamed material and its
flexible nature, tolerances in the closures and the bottle necks
can be compensated.  Thus, for example, any fluid (even in
vaporous form) that could penetrate into the bottle from the
exterior is also prevented from penetrating into it.  In
addition, the foamed material layer of the sealing disc lends
stability and particularly good ease of operation due to its
greater thickness compared with the other layers.
In addition to the already specified layers, further layers can
be provided.  They can be active layers which extend the
lifetime of the drink or retain its condition or even improve
it.
Sealing discs which can protect the drink from oxygen enclosed
in the container are advantageous for drinks such as wines for
example which react with oxygen.  To this end, an oxygen
absorbing layer can be provided as a further active layer.

If required, a paper layer can also be provided.   A paper layer
between the layer of foamed material and the underlying layer
improves the adhesion between these layers and increases the
sealing effect.
The invention will be described in more detail hereinafter with
the aid of examples of sealing discs in accordance with the
invention -  partly with reference to the accompanying Figures.
The layered structure is described from top to bottom   (in the
direction of the interior of the bottle) in the examples.
1st   Example:
The sealing disc is constructed from top to bottom of a first
layer consisting of foamed material, a second layer of paper, a
gas barrier layer as the third layer and also a polymer foil
incorporating an active layer.
The individual layers can be connected to one another by
adhesive layers as is usual for the production of layered
laminates of this type.
The first layer of foamed material can be formed of polyethylene
or polypropylene foamed material having a density of 80 to 500
    3
g/m   and a thickness of 0.2 to 4 mm.
A  second layer of paper, 60 g paper for example, is provided
below the first layer.
A gas barrier layer is arranged below the paper layer.    The gas
barrier layer can be a metal foil e.g. of tin, aluminium or
copper or a gas-impermeable plastic based on polyvinyl chloride
for example.   The thickness of the gas barrier is 10 to 30 pm
for example.   This comparatively small thickness for the gas
barrier layer is enough for deploying the blocking effect with
regard in particular to preventing the entry of gaseous oxygen
and for the gaseous alcohol.
A polymer foil incorporating an active layer is provided below.
The active layer is formed of an active substance which reacts

with the sulphur compounds causing the sulphide odours and
removes them from the interior of the bottle in this way whereby
the typical foul sulphide stench disappears.    In this example,
the active layer is formed of copper.    The copper is applied to
a polyethylene foil.   The polyethylene foil forms the lowest
layer in this embodiment of a sealing disc in accordance with
the invention.
2nd   Example:
Figure 1 shows the layered structure of an embodiment of a
sealing disc in accordance with the invention comprising a
highest layer 1 of polyethylene foamed material having a
thickness of 1.9 mm and a density of 250 kg/M 3 , a layer 2 of 60
g/m 2 paper, an active layer 3 which is arranged below the paper
layer 2 and consists of tin or copper having a thickness of 20
pm, and also a layer 4 of polyethylene foil having a thickness
of 50 pm which forms the lowest layer of the layered structure,
i.e. the layer which directly faces the interior of the bottle.
In particular, if the active layer 3 is formed of copper it can
fulfil the function of an oxygen barrier layer at the same time.
3rd   Example:
Figure 2 shows a further embodiment of a layered structure of a
sealing disc in accordance with the invention.
Here too, the highest layer 1 is formed of a polyethylene foamed
material having a density of 250 kg/m 3 and a thickness of 1.9
mm.   A paper layer 2 made of 60 g/m 2 paper is arranged below.
The underlying layer 5 is an oxygen barrier layer consisting of
aluminium having a thickness of 15 pm.    Functioning as an active
layer here, there is a composite of copper lacquer 3 which is
applied to a polyethylene foil 4, wherein the polyethylene foil
has a thickness of 50 pm and the copper lacquer is applied at a
rate of 3 g/m 2.

It should be noted that the layer thicknesses shown in Figures 1
and 2 are not true to scale.
All the layers fully cover the lower surface of the layer
arranged above it.
The sealing disc is either inserted beforehand into a
prefabricated closure cap and fixed and clamped therein.   All
the layers of the sealing disc are then already adhering to one
another.  The closure cap is additionally loaded when
encapsulating or otherwise fixing it onto the neck of the bottle
neck.  The sealing disc located in the closure is thereby
compressed.  The interior of the bottle is thereby hermetically
sealed by means of the sealing disc and the closure cap.
The sealing discs are not only usable in closures for wine
bottles or other alcoholic drinks, but are of advantage wherever
sulphur compounds corresponding to sulphide odours are formed in
the interior of a container.

                                            10
1. A sealing disc for a closure cap for containers, especially bottle closures for liquids
    fermented with yeast, characterized in that the sealing disc comprises;
    a first layer of layer polymer foamed material serving as a top layer;
    a second paper layer between the first and the second layers to improve the
    adhesion between these layers and increase the sealing effect;
    a third layer comprising a gas barrier layer; and
    a fourth layer incorporating the active substance to be directed towards liquid being
    the content of the container, which binds sulphur compounds.
2. The sealing disc in accordance with claim 1 where there is a fifth layer between the
    second and third layers being an oxygen barrier layer consisting of aluminium.
3. The sealing disc in accordance with claim 2 whereon the aluminium layer has a
    thickness of some 15 ptm.
4. The sealing disc in accordance with claim 1, characterized in that the active
    substance is a metal selected from copper, tin, silver, gold, antimony, alloys thereof,
    salts thereof including the oxides and hydroxides.
5. The sealing disc in accordance with claim 1, characterized in that the active
    substance is combined with a polymer foil.
6. A sealing disc in accordance with Claim 5, characterized in that the polymer foil is a
    compound foil consisting of two or more polymer layers.
7. The sealing disc in accordance with Claim 5 or 6, wherein the active substance is
    applied to the polymer foil.
8. The sealing disc in accordance with Claim 6, characterized in that at least one layer of
    the compound foil is formed of the active substance.
9. The sealing disc in accordance with Claim 6, characterized in that the active
    substance is integrated into at least one layer of the compound foil.
10. The sealing disc in accordance with claim 1, characterized in that the active
    substance is in form of a metal-containing printing ink.
11. The sealing disc in accordance with claim 4 in that the individual layers of the plastic
    foil incorporating the active substance usually have thicknesses of between 8 and
    200 pm.
12. Use of a sealing disc in accordance with any of the preceding claims for a bottle
    closure.

                                        11
13. Use in accordance with Claim 12, wherein the bottle is a wine bottle.

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014286283, is current as of 2018-05-21 21:00 AEST

