                                             ABSTRACT
A hybrid closed circuit heat exchanger having a dry indirect section and an evaporative indirect
section. The evaporative indirect section has multiple sub-sections. An evaporative fluid distribution
system is configured to selectively distribute evaporative fluid over all, part, or none of the sub
sections. A process fluid flow path control system is configured to selectively direct the process fluid
through one or more sub-sections. The process fluid flow path control system may send all of the
process fluid through two or more sub-sections in equal amounts or in different amounts. There is
preferably no evaporative heat exchange section bypass flow path.

              HYBRID COOLER WITH BIFURCATED EVAPORATIVE SECTION
Related Applications
 [0001]       This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013231863,
the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
Field of the Invention
 [0001A]     The present invention relates to heat exchangers, and more particularly to closed
circuit evaporative heat exchangers having a combination of direct and indirect closed circuit
evaporative heat exchangers.
Background of the Invention
 [0002]     Waste heat may be rejected to the atmosphere by dry or sensible heat exchangers. In a
dry or sensible heat exchanger, there are two fluids: an air stream and a process fluid stream. In
a closed system, the process fluid stream is enclosed so that there is no direct contact between
the air stream and the process fluid stream; the process fluid stream is not open to the
atmosphere. The enclosing structure may be a coil of tubes. Sensible heat is exchanged as the
air stream is passed over the structure enclosing the process fluid stream. In the art these
structures are known as "compact heat exchangers."
 [0003]     In most climates, evaporative heat exchangers offer significant process efficiency
improvements over dry heat exchangers. One type of evaporative heat exchanger is a direct
evaporative heat exchanger, also known in the industry as an open cooling tower. In a direct
heat exchanger, only an air stream and an evaporative liquid stream are involved; the
evaporative liquid stream is usually water, and the two streams come into direct contact with
each other.
 [0004]     Another type of evaporative heat exchanger is an indirect closed circuit evaporative
heat exchanger, where three fluid streams are involved: an air stream, an evaporative liquid
stream, and an enclosed process fluid stream. The enclosed fluid stream first exchanges
sensible heat with the evaporative liquid through indirect heat transfer, since it does not
directly contact the evaporative liquid and then the air stream and the evaporative liquid
exchange heat and mass when they contact each other.
 [0005]    Another type of evaporative heat exchanger is a combined direct and indirect closed
circuit evaporative heat exchanger. Examples of combined systems are disclosed in U.S. Pat.
No.

5,435,382, U.S. Pat. No. 5,816,318 and U.S. Patent No. 6,142,219.
[0006]       Both dry and evaporative heat exchangers are commonly used to reject heat as
coolers or condensers. Evaporative coolers reject heat at temperatures approaching the lower
ambient wet bulb temperatures, while dry coolers are limited to approaching the higher ambient
dry bulb temperatures. In many climates the ambient wet bulb temperature is often 200 to 30' F.
below the ambient design dry bulb temperature. Thus, in an evaporative cooler, the evaporative
liquid stream may reach a temperature significantly lower than the ambient dry bulb temperature,
offering the opportunity to increase the efficiency of the cooling process and to lower the overall
process energy requirements. Evaporative condensers offer similar possibilities for increased
efficiency and lower energy requirements. In spite of these opportunities to increase process
efficiencies and lower overall process energy requirements, evaporative cooling and evaporative
condensing are often not used due to concern about water consumption from evaporation of the
evaporative liquid and freezing potentials during cold weather operation.
[0007]       In addition, both sensible and evaporative heat exchangers are typically sized to
perform their required heat rejection duty at times of greatest thermal difficulty. This design
condition is typically expressed as the summer design wet bulb or dry bulb temperature. While it
is often critical that the heat rejection equipment be able to reject the required amount of heat at
these design conditions, the duration of these elevated atmospheric temperatures may account for
as little as 1% of the hours of operation of the equipment. The remainder of the time, the
equipment may have more capacity than required, resulting in unnecessary usage of additional
evaporative liquid.
[0008]       U.S. Patent No. 6,142,219 discloses a closed circuit heat exchanger having three heat
exchange sections: a dry indirect contact heat exchange section; a second indirect contact heat
exchange section that is operable in either a wet or dry mode; and a direct contact heat exchange
section. As a fluid cooler, a connecting flow path connects the dry indirect contact heat exchange
section to the second indirect contact heat exchange section. A bypass flow path extends from
the dry indirect contact heat exchange section to the process fluid outlet. A modulating valve is
at the outlet so that process fluid can be selectively drawn from the dry indirect contact heat
exchange section alone, from the second indirect contact heat exchange section in series with the
                                                   2

dry indirect contact heat exchange section, or from both the dry and second indirect contact heat
exchange sections and mixed. Separate air streams pass through the second indirect and direct
contact heat exchange sections before entering the dry indirect contact heat exchange section. As
a condenser, process fluid is directed to the dry indirect contact heat exchange section alone or to
the dry and second indirect contact heat exchange sections in parallel by valves in the process
fluid supply lines. In another embodiment, the process fluid flows in series from the dry to the
second indirect contact heat exchange section. The system is operable in different modes to
extract heat from the process fluid in the most efficient way with respect to annual water
consumption. At low temperatures, the system operates dry with primary heat extraction
performed by the dry indirect contact heat exchange section. At higher temperatures, the air
streams may be adiabatically saturated with evaporative liquid to pre-cool them below the dry
bulb temperature before entering the dry indirect contact heat exchange section. At still higher
temperatures, the apparatus may be operated in a wet mode with the primary heat extraction
performed by the second indirect contact heat exchange section. Heat is extracted from the
process fluid while selectively distributing or not distributing the evaporative liquid over the
second indirect contact heat exchange section.
Summary of the Invention
[0009]      The inventions disclosed herein are improvements to the inventions disclosed in U.S.
Patent No. 6,142,219 and corresponding European Patent No EP 1 035 396, the disclosures of
which are both incorporated herein in their entirety.
[00010]     This invention relates to a hybrid closed circuit cooler for extracting heat from a
process fluid having a dry indirect heat exchange portion or "section" in fluid connection with an
evaporative indirect heat exchange section, in which the evaporative indirect heat exchange
portion or "section" is divided into a plurality of evaporative indirect heat exchange flow paths
or "sub-sections." Each of the plurality of evaporative indirect heat exchange flow paths may be
contained in a separate evaporative indirect heat exchange coil bundle. An evaporative fluid
distribution system is located and configured to controllably and selectively distribute
evaporative fluid over all, part, or none of the evaporative indirect heat exchange sub-sections.
In addition, a process fluid flow path control system is configured to controllably and selectively
                                                   3

direct the process fluid through one or more of the evaporative indirect heat exchange sub
sections. The process fluid flow path control system may send all of the process fluid through a
single evaporative indirect heat exchange sub-sections, through two or more evaporative indirect
heat exchange sub-sections in equal amounts, or through two or more evaporative indirect heat
exchange sub-sections in different amounts. There is preferably a process fluid flow path that
does not pass through at least one evaporative indirect heat exchange sub section. That is, there
is preferably no evaporative heat exchange section bypass flow path.
[00011]      The evaporative fluid distribution system and the process fluid flow path control
system may be configured so that the evaporative indirect heat exchange sub-sections may
collectively, or individually and separately, be run in evaporative mode and/or in dry mode. In
particular, the system of the invention may be configured so that one or more sub-sections of the
evaporative indirect heat exchange section are run in dry mode, and another one or more sub
sections of the evaporative indirect heat exchange section are run in evaporative mode.
Additionally, one or more-subsections of the evaporative indirect heat exchange sections may be
run in "adiabatic mode" according to which evaporative fluid is distributed over an evaporative
indirect heat exchange sub-section, but no process fluid is passed through that sub-section,
providing adiabatic cooling of the air flow passing through the evaporative indirect heat
exchange section. Accordingly, the system may be configured so that one or more sub-sections
of the evaporative indirect heat exchange section is running in dry mode (process fluid running,
but no evaporative fluid running), one or more subsections are running in evaporative mode
(process fluid running and evaporative fluid running), and/or one or more subsections are
running in adiabatic mode (evaporative fluid running, but no process fluid running).
[00012]      Air moving systems may be arranged according to methods known in the art to move
air through the dry indirect heat exchange portion and the evaporative indirect heat exchange
portion according to induced draft arrangement, forced draft arrangement, or some combination
thereof (e.g., induced draft for one section and forced draft for another section)
[00013]      Relative direction of air flow and process fluid flow for each of the heat exchange
sections, collectively, or individually and separately, may be concurrent, countercurrent, or cross
current.
                                                   4

[00014]      The device according to the invention may optionally include a direct contact heat
exchange section for cooling the evaporative fluid. The direct contact heat exchange section
may optionally contain fill material. Air may be directed through the direct contact heat
exchange section in cross-current, concurrent, or countercurrent arrangement.
[00015]      According to one embodiment of the invention, there is provided a heat exchanger
system for extracting heat from a process fluid including: a process fluid inlet; a process fluid
outlet; a dry indirect contact heat exchange section receiving process fluid from the process fluid
inlet and having an air inlet side, an air outlet side and a process fluid inlet and a process fluid
outlet; a second evaporative indirect contact heat exchanger section that is split into at least two
process fluid flow paths, a process fluid inlet and a process fluid outlet for each of the at least
two process fluid flow paths, and an air inlet side and an air outlet side; a mechanism for moving
air through the heat exchangers that can be induced draft, forced draft or other; a distribution
system for selectively distributing an evaporative liquid to the second evaporative indirect
contact heat exchanger section, or sub-section thereof; a process fluid connecting flow path from
the dry indirect contact heat exchanger, which then divides and connects to both of the second
evaporative indirect contact heat exchanger sections; a mechanism for directing the process fluid
selectively to the process fluid inlets of the second evaporative indirect contact heat exchanger
sections such that all of the process fluid may be split evenly between the two second sections, or
may be split unevenly between sections, or may be entirely directed through only one of the
sections; and a process fluid outlet flow path from the second indirect heat exchanger to the
process fluid outlet. (FIG.s 1-4)
[00016]      According to another embodiment, there may be included one or more mechanisms
for moving air through the heat exchangers.
[00017]      According to another embodiment, the mechanism for moving air through the heat
exchanger is an induced draft system.
[00018]      According to another embodiment, the mechanism for moving air through the heat
exchanger is a forced draft system.
                                                    5

[00019]      According to another embodiment, there is no process fluid flow path that does not
travel through the evaporative indirect heat exchange section (i.e., no evaporative indirect heat
exchange section by-pass).
[00020]      According to another embodiment, the flow-divide in the evaporative heat exchange
section can be equal or unequal.
[00021]      According to another embodiment, the second evaporative heat exchanger can be two
or more separate heat exchangers.
[00022]      According to another embodiment, the second evaporative heat exchanger sections are
connected in a series flow path for the process fluid. (FIG. 13a). According to yet another
embodiment, the process fluid flow path may be controlled so that it only flows through fewer
than all of the evaporative heat exchanger sections, bypassing others. (FIG. 13b).
[00023]      According to another embodiment, the water distribution system may be two or more
separate systems. The distribution system can be operated via separate flow means, such as
pumps placed as separate systems, or it can be a single system separated with a valve or multiple
valves in the main distribution pipe, or any other means to selectively shut of water flow to parts
of the distribution system approximately corresponding to the internal flow divisions of the
second evaporative heat exchanger section. (FIG.s 5-8). According to other embodiments, an
evaporative fluid distribution system may be arranged to distribute evaporative fluid over fewer
than all of the evaporative heat exchange sections. According to these embodiments, there may
be one, two or more dry indirect sections, and two or more evaporative indirect sections, and the
evaporative fluid distribution system is arranged over one or more evaporative indirect sections,
and not present over one or more different evaporative indirect sections. (FIG.s 15a, 15b)
[00024]      According to another embodiment, a partition separates the second heat exchanger
section to further separate the flows from the water distribution system.
[00025]      According to another embodiment, there are multiple dry heat exchangers with
additional piping to connect to the flow distribution valve. The dry heat exchanger may have an
additional flow control means to selectively distribute process fluid flow between the multiple
dry heat exchangers creating unequal flows between the two or more dry heat exchanger sections
                                                  6

or shutting off one or multiple of the dry heat exchangers. (FIG.s 9 and 10)
[00026]     According to another embodiment, there is a mechanism for bypassing the process
fluid around one or more of the dry heat exchanger sections. (FIG. 11)
[00027]     According to another embodiment, the flow-divide in the dry heat exchange section
can be equal or unequal and the dry heat exchanger can be two or more separate heat exchangers
and the multiple dry heat exchangers may have a series process fluid flow path for the process
fluid. (FIG. 12)
[00028]     According to another embodiment, there is provided series process fluid flow path for
either or both the multiple dry heat exchangers and the multiple evaporative heat exchangers.
This can also be accomplished with single heat exchangers for either or both the dry and
evaporative heat exchangers by using partitions within the heat exchanger headers. (FIG.s 12,
 13a, and 14a). According to the series arranged evaporative sections, another embodiment
permits the bypass of one or more evaporative sections, wherein the process fluid flow travels
through fewer than all of the evaporative sections. (FIG.s 13b, and 14b).
[00029]     Yet another embodiment includes modulating valves, or operational equivalent, to
control flow to the various sections, where the modulating valve, or operational equivalent, can
be operated either manually or automatically
[00030]     According to another embodiment, the amount of process fluid flow split between the
two or more evaporative heat exchangers and the control of evaporative liquid flow over two or
more evaporative heat exchangers depends upon the process fluid temperature. According to
another embodiment, there is provided a mechanism for measuring the process fluid temperature
and a means for controlling the modulating valve, or operational equivalent, and the distribution
system flows (pumps) or valves.
[00031]     According to another embodiment, a method is provided for extracting heat from a
process fluid, the method including the steps of passing the process fluid through a dry indirect
contact heat exchange section and selectively through one or more of a plurality of evaporative
indirect heat exchange sections; selectively distributing or not distributing the evaporative liquid
over one or more of the plurality of evaporative indirect heat exchange sections; controlling the
                                                  7

flow of the process fluid to one or more of the plurality of evaporative indirect heat exchange
sections, and controlling the evaporative fluid (e.g., water) flow to the section of the distribution
system.
[00032]      According to another embodiment, a method is provided for extracting heat from a
process fluid including the steps of: providing a process fluid inlet and outlet; providing an
evaporative liquid; providing a distribution system for the evaporative liquid, a dry heat
exchange section, and a second divided indirect heat exchange section; passing the process fluid
through the dry indirect contact heat exchange section and selectively through the flow paths of
the second divided indirect heat exchange section; and selectively distributing or not distributing
the evaporative liquid over the divisions of the second evaporative indirect heat exchange
section, characterized by: providing a process fluid flow path from the dry indirect contact heat
exchanger through one or more or all of the divisions of the evaporative heat exchanger section;
providing a mechanism for controlling the process fluid flow to the divided flow paths of the
evaporative heat exchange section, and providing a mechanism for controlling the evaporative
fluid (e.g., water) flow to the section of the distribution system
[00033]      According to another embodiment, the method further includes the step of selectively
moving process fluid flow through the second evaporative indirect heat exchanger sections as a
function of the process fluid temperature.
[00034]      According to another embodiment, the method includes turning on the evaporative
distribution flow sections as a function of the process fluid temperature.
[00035]      According to another embodiment, the method includes selectively moving process
fluid flow through the dry heat exchanger sections as a function of the process fluid temperature.
Description of the Drawings
[00036]      The subsequent description of the preferred embodiments of the present invention
refers to the attached drawings, wherein:
[00037]      Figure 1 is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a dry
indirect heat exchange section and an evaporative heat exchange section having subsections A
                                                    8

and B, in which the evaporative fluid flow is set to "off' and the process fluid is set to flow
through both evaporative heat exchange subsections.
[00038]      Figure 2 is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a dry
indirect heat exchange section and an evaporative heat exchange section having subsections A
and B, in which the evaporative fluid flow is set to flow over both evaporative sub-sections, and
in which the process fluid is set to flow only through one of the two evaporative subsections.
[00039]      Figure 3 is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a dry
indirect heat exchange section and an evaporative heat exchange section having subsections A
and B, in which the evaporative fluid flow is set to flow over both evaporative sub-sections, and
in which the process fluid is set to a partial flow through one evaporative sub-section and to a
full flow through a second evaporative sub-section.
[00040]      Figure 4 is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a dry
indirect heat exchange section and an evaporative heat exchange section having subsections A
and B, in which the evaporative fluid flow is set to flow over both evaporative sub-sections and
the process fluid is set to full flow through both evaporative heat exchange subsections.
[00041]      Figure 5 is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a dry
indirect heat exchange section, an evaporative heat exchange section having subsections A and
B, and two evaporative fluid distribution systems, in which the evaporative fluid flow is set to
"off' and the process fluid is set to flow through both evaporative heat exchange subsections.
[00042]      Figure 6 is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a dry
indirect heat exchange section, an evaporative heat exchange section having subsections A and
B, and two evaporative fluid distribution systems, in which one evaporative fluid distribution
system is set to "off' and a second evaporative fluid distribution system is set to distribute
evaporative fluid over one subsection of the evaporative heat exchange section, and the process
fluid is set to flow through the evaporative subsection which is not receiving evaporative fluid,
and does not flow through the evaporative subsection over which evaporative fluid is distributed.
[00043]      Figure 7 is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a dry
indirect heat exchange section, an evaporative heat exchange section having subsections A and
                                                   9

B, and two evaporative fluid distribution systems, in which one evaporative distribution system
is set to "off' and a second evaporative fluid distribution system is set to distribute evaporative
fluid over one subsection of the evaporative heat exchange section, and the process fluid is set to
fully flow through the evaporative subsection which is not receiving evaporative fluid, and is set
to partially flow through the evaporative subsection over which evaporative fluid is distributed.
[00044]      Figure 8 is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a dry
indirect heat exchange section, an evaporative heat exchange section having subsections A and
B, and two evaporative fluid distribution systems, in which the evaporative fluid flow is set to
flow over both evaporative subsections, and the process fluid is set to flow through both
evaporative subsections.
[00045]      Figure 9 is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a dry
indirect heat exchange section having subsections C and D, an evaporative heat exchange section
having subsections A and B, in which process fluid enters each dry indirect subsection in
separate flow paths, in which, upon leaving the dry indirect subsections, the two process fluid
paths are combined into a single process fluid flow path, which is then split into two process
flow paths each of which flows through a different evaporative subsection. The embodiment of
Figure 9 has a single evaporative fluid distribution system, which is shown as turned off.
[00046]      Figure 10 is representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a dry
indirect heat exchange section having subsections C and D, an evaporative heat exchange section
having subsections A and B, in which process fluid enters each dry indirect subsection in
separate flow paths, in which, upon leaving the dry indirect subsections, the two process fluid
paths can be optionally and selectively mixed and or re-directed prior to entering the evaporative
subsections. The embodiment of Figure 10 has a single evaporative fluid distribution system,
which is shown as turned off.
[00047]      Figure 11 is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a
dry indirect heat exchange section, an evaporative heat exchange section having subsections A
and B, in which process fluid can be optionally directed entirely or partially into the dry indirect
section or optionally be directed to bypass the dry indirect section, and in which the process fluid
flow may optionally be directed into one or both of the evaporative sub-sections. The
                                                  10

embodiment of Figure 11 has a single evaporative fluid distribution system, which is shown as
turned off.
[00048]      Figure 12 is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a dry
indirect heat exchange section having subsections C and D, an evaporative heat exchange section
having subsections A and B, in which process fluid enters each dry indirect subsection one after
the other, then proceeds to the evaporative section, and in which the process fluid flow path may
be selectively directed to one or the other or to both evaporative subsections. The embodiment
of Figure 12 has a single evaporative fluid distribution system, which is shown as turned off.
[00049]      Figure 13a is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a
dry indirect heat exchange section, an evaporative heat exchange section having subsections A
and B, in which process fluid enters each evaporative subsection one after the other. The
embodiment of Figure 13a has a single evaporative fluid distribution system, which is shown as
turned off.
[00050]      Figure 13b is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a
dry indirect heat exchange section, an evaporative heat exchange section having subsections A
and B, in which process fluid enters each evaporative subsection one after the other, but in which
the process fluid flow path may be controlled to bypass a second evaporative section and only
flow through a first evaporative section. The embodiment of Figure 13b has a single evaporative
fluid distribution system, which is shown as turned off.
[00051]      Figure 14a is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a
dry indirect heat exchange section having subsections C and D, an evaporative heat exchange
section having subsections A and B, in which process fluid enters each evaporative subsection
one after the other. The embodiment of Figure 14a has a single evaporative fluid distribution
system, which is shown as turned off
[00052]      Figure 14b is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a
dry indirect heat exchange section having subsections C and D, an evaporative heat exchange
section having subsections A and B, in which process fluid enters each evaporative subsection
one after the other, but in which the process fluid flow path may be controlled to bypass a second
                                                   11

evaporative section and only flow through a first evaporative section. The embodiment of
Figure 14b has a single evaporative fluid distribution system, which is shown as turned off.
[00053]      Figure 15a is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a
dry indirect heat exchange section (optionally having either a single section or a plurality of
sections, arranged in either parallel or in series), an evaporative fluid distribution system, and an
evaporative indirect heat exchange section having subsections A and B, with the process fluid
flow path arranged to flow through the evaporative subsections in parallel. The evaporative fluid
distribution system is located over fewer than all of the evaporative sections.
[00054]      Figure 15b is a representation of an embodiment according to the invention having a
dry indirect heat exchange section (optionally having either a single section or a plurality of
sections, arranged in either parallel or in series), an evaporative fluid distribution system, and an
evaporative indirect heat exchange section having subsections A and B, with the process fluid
flow path arranged to flow through the evaporative subsections in series. The evaporative fluid
distribution system is located over fewer than all of the evaporative sections.
[00055]      Figure 16 is a side view schematic of a prior art (U.S. Patent No. 6,142,219) closed
circuit heat exchange system having a unitary dry indirect heat exchange section, a unitary
evaporative indirect heat exchange section, a direct heat exchange system, a single evaporative
fluid distribution system, a single process fluid flow path through said dry indirect section, a
single process fluid flow path through said evaporative indirect section, and a process fluid path
that bypasses said evaporative indirect section.
Detailed Description of the Invention
[00056]      A first structural embodiment of the heat exchange system of the invention is shown
in FIG.s 1-4. The system of FIG.s 1-4 includes a dry indirect heat exchange section 1, an
evaporative heat exchange section 3 having a plurality of subsections 5, 7, an evaporative fluid
distribution system 9, a dry indirect section process fluid inlet 11, a dry indirect section process
fluid outlet 13, a process fluid intermediate flow path valve 15 which can be used to direct the
process fluid to one or more of the evaporative subsection inlets 17, 19, and evaporative
subsection outlets 21, 23.
                                                    12

[00057]      In the structural embodiment shown in FIG.s 1-4, the evaporative fluid distribution
system 9 may be set to on (see evaporative fluid 35, FIG.s 2-4) or off (FIG. 1). The process fluid
intermediate flow path valve 15 may be set to allow the process fluid to flow in roughly equal
amounts through evaporative subsections 5, 7 (FIG.s 1, 3), to flow only one evaporative
subsections 17, 19 (FIG. 2), or to flow through one evaporative subsection (e.g., 7, FIG. 3) in
substantially greater volumes than through another evaporative subsection (e.g., 5, FIG. 3).
[00058]      A second structural embodiment of the heat exchange system of the invention is
shown in FIG.s 5-8. This second embodiment is similar in structure to the structural
embodiment shown in FIG.s 1-4, but has a plurality of evaporative fluid distribution systems 9a
and 9b. Thus, the system of FIG.s 5-8 includes a dry indirect heat exchange section 1, an
evaporative heat exchange section 3 having subsections 5, 7, evaporative fluid distribution
systems 9a, 9b, a dry indirect section process fluid inlet 11, a dry indirect section process fluid
outlet 13, a process fluid intermediate flow path valve 15 which can be used to direct the process
fluid to one or more of the evaporative subsection inlets 17,19, and evaporative subsection
outlets 21, 23.
[00059]      In the structural embodiment of FIG.s 5-8, the evaporative fluid distribution systems
9a and 9b may both be turned off (FIG. 5), may both be turned on (FIG. 8), or one evaporative
fluid distribution system 9a, 9b may be turned on and another turned off (FIG.s 6 and 7 show 9a
turned off, and 9b turned on). Furthermore, the process fluid intermediate flow path valve 15 of
the structural embodiment of FIG.s 5-8 may be set to allow the process fluid to flow in roughly
equal amounts through multiple evaporative subsections 5, 7 (FIG.s 5, 8), to flow through only
one evaporative subsections 17, 19 (FIG. 6), or to flow through one evaporative subsection (e.g.,
7, FIG. 7) in substantially greater volumes than through another evaporative subsection (e.g., 5,
FIG. 7).
[00060]      Yet another structural embodiment is shown in FIG. 9. The system of FIG. 9 includes
a plurality of dry indirect heat exchange sections la, and 1b, an evaporative heat exchange
section 3 having a plurality of subsections 5, 7, an evaporative fluid distribution system 9, dry
indirect section process fluid inlets 11a, 11b, dry indirect section process fluid outlets 13a, 13b,
a first and second process fluid intermediate flow path valves 15a, 15b, evaporative subsection
                                                  13

inlets 17,19, and evaporative subsection outlets 21, 23.
[00061]      In the structural embodiment of FIG. 9, process fluid may be directed to only one, to
less than all, or to all of the plurality of dry indirect heat exchange sections la, and 1b. If
process fluid is directed to only one of dry indirect heat exchange sections la, 1b, valve 15a may
be used to prevent process fluid from flowing into another dry indirect heat exchange section. In
the case the process fluid is directed to a plurality of dry indirect heat exchange sections la, 1b,
valve 15a may be used to combine the process fluids exiting the dry indirect heat exchange
sections. Valve 15b may be used to split the process fluid flow into equal or unequal parts and
direct each part to a different of the plurality of evaporative sections 5, 7, or to direct the entire
process fluid flow into only one of the plurality of evaporative sections 5, 7. Figure 9 shows
valve 15b sending equal parts of the process fluid flow into each of the plurality of evaporative
sections 5, 7.
[00062]      Another structural embodiment is shown in FIG. 10. The system of FIG. 10 includes
a plurality of dry indirect heat exchange sections la, and 1b, an evaporative heat exchange
section 3 having a plurality of subsections 5, 7, an evaporative fluid distribution system 9, dry
indirect section process fluid inlets 11a, 11b, dry indirect section process fluid outlets 13a, 13b,
a first and second process fluid intermediate flow path valves 15c, 15d, evaporative subsection
inlets 17,19, and evaporative subsection outlets 21, 23.
[00063]      In the structural embodiment of FIG. 10, process fluid may be directed to only one, to
less than all, or to all of the plurality of dry indirect heat exchange sections la, and 1b. If
process fluid is directed to only one of dry indirect heat exchange sections la, 1b, valves 15c,
15d may be used to direct process fluid exiting a dry indirect heat exchange section to one or
more of the plurality of heat exchange sections. In the case the process fluid is directed to a
plurality of dry indirect heat exchange sections la, 1b, valves 15c, 15d may be used to direct the
process fluid from each dry indirect section to a separate evaporative section, or to combine the
process fluids from a plurality of dry indirect sections and direct the combined process fluid to a
plurality of the evaporative sections. The valving shown in the drawings may be multiple valves
to accomplish the flow paths or may be three way valves as deemed appropriate and useful.
[00064]      Yet another structural embodiment is shown in FIG. 11. The system of FIG. 11
                                                      14

includes a dry indirect heat exchange section 1, an evaporative heat exchange section 3 having a
plurality of subsections 5, 7, an evaporative fluid distribution system 9, a dry indirect section
process fluid inlet 11, dry indirect section process fluid outlet 13, a process fluid intermediate
flow path valve 15, evaporative subsection inlets 17, 19, evaporative subsection outlets 21, 23,
and a dry indirect section bypass valve 29.
[00065]      The embodiment of FIG. 11 may be operated in all the same ways as the
embodiments of FIG.s 1-4, with the additional ability of sending some or all of the process fluid
directly to the evaporative section, bypassing the dry indirect section.
[00066]      Yet another structural embodiment is shown in FIG. 12. The system of FIG. 129
includes a plurality of dry indirect heat exchange sections la, and 1b, an evaporative heat
exchange section 3 having a plurality of subsections 5, 7, an evaporative fluid distribution system
9, dry indirect section process fluid inlets 11a, 11b, dry indirect section process fluid outlets 13a,
13b, a process fluid intermediate flow path valve 15, evaporative subsection inlets 17,19, and
evaporative subsection outlets 21, 23.
[00067]      In the structural embodiment of FIG. 12, process fluid is directed through dry indirect
section process fluid inlet 11a to first dry indirect heat exchange section la, and then through dry
indirect section process fluid outlet 13a and subsequently through dry indirect section process
fluid inlet 1lb to second dry indirect heat exchange section 1b. Process fluid then exits the
second dry indirect section through dry indirect section outlet 13b. Valve 15a may be used to
prevent process fluid from flowing into another dry indirect heat exchange section. In the case
the process fluid is directed to a plurality of dry indirect heat exchange sections la, 1b. Valve
15 may be used to split the process fluid flow into equal or unequal parts and direct each part to a
different of the plurality of evaporative sections 5, 7, or to direct the entire process fluid flow
into only one of the plurality of evaporative sections 5, 7.
[00068]      In yet another structural embodiment, shown in FIG.s 13a and 13b, the system
includes dry indirect heat exchange section 1, an evaporative heat exchange section 3 having a
plurality of subsections 5, 7, an evaporative fluid distribution system 9, dry indirect section
process fluid inlet 11, dry indirect section process fluid outlet 13, evaporative subsection inlets
17,19, and evaporative subsection outlets 21, 23.
                                                    15

[00069]      In the structural embodiment of FIG. 13a, process fluid enters dry indirect section 1
through dry indirect heat exchange inlet 11, exits through dry indirect section outlet 13 and is
directed to a first of said plurality of evaporative sections 5, 7 through evaporative section inlet
17. The process fluid then exits said first of said plurality of evaporative sections through
evaporative section outlet 21, and enters a second of said plurality of evaporative sections
through evaporative section inlet 19. The process fluid then exits the second evaporative section
through evaporative section outlet 23.
[00070]      In the structural embodiment of FIG 13b, the process fluid can be optionally directed
to bypass evaporative section B by operation of one or more valves 15.
[00071]      The structural embodiments of FIG.s 14a and 14b represent a combination of
multiple section dry heat exchange sections with a series process fluid flow path (for example,
shown in Fig. 12), and multiple evaporative heat exchange sections with a series process fluid
flow path (for example shown in FIG.s. 13a and 13b).
[00072]      Each of the embodiments shown in FIG.s 9-14 may have a plurality of evaporative
fluid distribution systems, as shown in the embodiments of FIG.s 5-8.
[00073]      Additional structural embodiments are shown in FIG.s 15a and 15b. FIG.s. 15a and
 15b include a dry indirect heat exchange section 1, an evaporative heat exchange section 3
having a plurality of subsections 5, 7, an evaporative fluid distribution system 9, a dry indirect
section process fluid inlet 11, dry indirect section process fluid outlet 13, a process fluid
intermediate flow path valve 15, evaporative subsection inlets 17, 19, evaporative subsection
outlets 21, 23, and a dry indirect section bypass valve 29. The dry indirect heat exchange section
1 may be a single unit, for example as shown in FIG. 11, or it may be a multiple section unit as
shown, for example, in FIG. 12. In the embodiments of FIG.s. 15a and 15b, the evaporative fluid
distribution system is located over fewer than all of the evaporative indirect heat exchange
systems.
[00074]      FIG. 15a shows the process fluid flow path through the evaporative subsections as
parallel flow, subject to the control of valve 15, which may be set to send all the flow through
one or the other evaporative sections entirely, through one or more evaporative sections equally,
                                                    16

or through multiple sections in different amounts.
[00075]      FIG. 15b shows the process fluid flow path through the evaporative subsections as
series flow, with the option to bypass an evaporative section by the action of the valve between
outlet 21 and outlet 23.
[00076]      According to a preferred aspect of each embodiment described herein, there is no
process fluid bypass of the evaporative heat exchange system.
[00077]      Each of the embodiments of FIG.s 1-15 may optionally be combined with a direct
heat exchange section for cooling the evaporative fluid, in the case that one or more evaporative
fluid distribution systems are operating. Such a direct heat exchange system may be located
below the evaporative heat exchange section, or it may be located between the evaporative fluid
distribution system nozzles and the evaporative heat exchange sections. A direct heat exchange
system according to the invention may include fill, or it may not include fill.
[00078]      Any combination of air flow direction, e.g., concurrent, countercurrent, cross-current,
through each of the dry indirect section, the evaporative indirect section and the direct section is
considered to fall within the scope of this invention. For example, the airflow through each of
the sections may be concurrent; alternatively, the airflow through each of the sections may be
countercurrent, or the airflow through each of the sections may be cross-current. The airflow
may be concurrent through one section, two, or three sections. The airflow may be crosscurrent
through one, two or three sections; and the airflow may be countercurrent through one, two or
three sections. The airflow may be different in each section. Structures for creating and
direction airflow through indirect and direct heat exchange sections are well known.
[00079]      Independent of the direction of airflow for each section, each section may be part of
the same airflow, or each section may have its own separate airflow, or each section may share a
portion of the airflow from another section.
 [00080]     The embodiments of FIG.s 1-15 may be each used to modify and improve prior art
 heat exchange systems. An example of such a prior art system that may be improved with the
 features of the present invention is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 6,142,219 ("Korenic"), the
 entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                   17

ll:\evk\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16884269
                              _.docx-30/04/2018
[00081]          Throughout this specification and claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers or steps but not the
exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
[00082]              The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                                                  17A

 CLAIMS
1. A heat exchanger system for extracting heat from a process fluid comprising:
       a process fluid inlet;
       a process fluid outlet;
       a dry indirect contact heat exchange section receiving process fluid from the process fluid
           inlet and having an air inlet side, an air outlet side and a process fluid inlet and a
           process fluid outlet;
       a second evaporative indirect contact heat exchanger section that is split into at least two
           process fluid flow paths, a process fluid inlet and a process fluid outlet for each of the
           two process fluid flow paths, and an air inlet side and an air outlet side;
       an air moving system for moving air through the heat exchangers that can be induced
           draft, forced draft or other,
       a distribution system for selectively distributing an evaporative liquid to the second
           evaporative indirect contact heat exchanger section;
       a process fluid connecting flow path from the dry indirect contact heat exchanger, which
           then divides and connects to both of the second evaporative indirect contact heat
           exchanger sections;
       a mechanism for directing the process fluid selectively to the process fluid inlets of the
           second evaporative indirect contact heat exchanger sections such that all of the
           process fluid may be split evenly between the two second sections, or may be split
           unevenly between sections, or may be entirely directed through only one of the
           sections; and
       a process fluid outlet flow path from the second indirect heat exchanger to the process
           fluid outlet.
                                                  18

2. A heat exchanger system according to claim 1, further comprising including one or more
       mechanisms for moving air through the heat exchangers.
3. A heat exchanger system according to claim 2, wherein the mechanism for moving air through
       the heat exchanger is an induced draft system.
4. A heat exchanger system according to claim 2, wherein the mechanism for moving air through
       the heat exchanger is a forced draft system.
5. A heat exchanger system according to claim 1, wherein there is no process fluid flow path that
       does not travel through the evaporative indirect heat exchange section.
6. A heat exchanger system according to claim 1, wherein the flow-divide in the evaporative heat
       exchange section can be equal or unequal.
7. A heat exchanger system according to claim 1, wherein evaporative heat exchange section
       comprises a plurality of separate evaporative heat exchange sections.
8. A heat exchanger system according to claim 7, wherein two or more of the plurality of
       separate evaporative heat exchange sections are are connected in a series flow path for
       the process fluid.
9. A heat exchanger system according to claim 1, comprising a plurality of evaporative fluid
       distribution systems, including a mechanism to selectively shut off water flow to parts of
       the evaporative fluid distribution system approximately corresponding to internal flow
       divisions of the evaporative heat exchanger section.
10. A heat exchanger system according to claim 9, further comprising a partition separating the
       second heat exchanger section to further separate the flows from the water distribution
       system.
11. A heat exchanger system according to claim 1, comprising multiple dry heat exchangers with
       piping to connect to the flow distribution valve, wherein the dry heat exchanger may have
       an additional flow control means to selectively distribute process fluid flow between the
                                                 19

       multiple dry heat exchangers creating unequal flows between the two or more dry heat
       exchanger sections or shutting off one or multiple of the dry heat exchangers.
12. A heat exchanger system according to claim 1, further comprising a mechanism for
       bypassing the process fluid around one or more of the dry heat exchanger sections.
13. A heat exchanger system according to claim 12, wherein the flow-divide in the dry heat
       exchange section can be equal or unequal and the dry heat exchanger can be two or more
       separate heat exchangers and the multiple dry heat exchangers may have a series process
       fluid flow path for the process fluid.
14. A heat exchanger system according to claim 13 further comprising a series process fluid flow
       path for both the multiple dry heat exchangers and also to the multiple evaporative heat
       exchangers.
15. A heat exchanger system according to claim 1, further comprising valves to control flow to
       the various sections.
16. A heat exchanger system according to claim 15, wherein the valves are selected from the
       group consisting of three-way valves and modulated valves, and wherein said valves can
       be operated either manually or automatically.
17. A heat exchanger system according to claim 1, wherein the amount of process fluid flow split
       between the two or more evaporative heat exchangers and the control of evaporative
       liquid flow over two or more evaporative heat exchangers depends upon the process fluid
       temperature.
18. A method of extracting heat from a process fluid comprising the steps of:
       passing the process fluid through a dry indirect contact heat exchange section and
       selectively through one or more of a plurality of evaporative indirect heat exchange
       sections;
       selectively distributing or not distributing the evaporative liquid over one or more of the
       plurality of evaporative indirect heat exchange sections;
                                                  20

       controlling the flow of the process fluid to one or more of the plurality of evaporative
       indirect heat exchange sections, and
       controlling the evaporative fluid flow to the section of the distribution system.
19. A method of extracting heat from a process fluid comprising the steps of:
       providing a process fluid inlet and outlet;
       providing an evaporative liquid;
       providing a distribution system for the evaporative liquid, a dry heat exchange section,
       and a second divided indirect heat exchange section;
       passing the process fluid through the dry indirect contact heat exchange section and
       selectively through the flow paths of the second divided indirect heat exchange section;
       and
       selectively distributing or not distributing the evaporative liquid over the divisions of the
       second evaporative indirect heat exchange section, characterized by:
       providing a process fluid flow path from the dry indirect contact heat exchanger through
       one or more or all of the divisions of the evaporative heat exchanger section;
       providing a mechanism for controlling the process fluid flow to the divided flow paths of
       the evaporative heat exchange section, and
       providing a mechanism for controlling the evaporative fluid (e.g., water) flow to the
       section of the distribution system
20. A method according to claim 19 further comprising the step of selectively moving process
       fluid flow through the second evaporative indirect heat exchanger sections as a function
       of the process fluid temperature.
21. A method according to claim 19, further comprising the step of turning on the evaporative
       distribution flow sections as a function of the process fluid temperature.
                                                  21

22. A method according to claim 19 further comprising the step of selectively moving process
       fluid flow through the dry heat exchanger sections as a function of the process fluid
       temperature.
                                               22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
