   ABSTRACT
   A method of gaming in a gaming system comprising
   conducting a plurality of game rounds, determining as part
 5 of each game round whether a designated game event has
   occurred, each designated game event conferring a benefit
   on the player in at least one game round, increasing a
   count in response to the designated game event occurring
   in a game round, and ending the series of game rounds in
10 response to the count reaching a designated number,
   whereby the number of game rounds is                  determined by
   occurrence                  of the designated game event in plural game
   rounds to thereby set a minimum number of game rounds.
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

CD           C             (D
    Ua)
        C)                    a)
                mu                          >
                wD           0)                      w
               LI
                       (D
           (D                    0)                >
                          E                       Eo
                                 C0
                               0~)
                               0)                 0
                                       o 2             o
              C14)
     (     D                    C])
                       o0
           C)                                  co
                   Iq(                     N0
                                    00
   0                                         0 r
   IS)

   Title
     A METHOD OF GAMING, A GAME CONTROLLER AND A GAMING SYSTEM
 5 Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional
   application of Australian application no.2013200417, which
10 in turn is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. 2010202233.          The disclosures of each of
   these applications are incorporated herein by reference.
   Field
15
   The invention relates to a method of gaming, a game
   controller and a gaming system.
   Background
20
   Known gaming systems provide games where a series of game
   rounds are carried out. Such game rounds, or free games,
   are typically provided as a feature game awarded in
   response to a trigger event occurring in a base game.
25 Usually, the number of game rounds which are awarded is
   advertised to the player in advance and the counter shows
   the number of game rounds remaining. Some games allow the
   feature to be "re-triggered" if the trigger occurs again
   during the free game series.
30
   While such gaming systems provide players with enjoyment,
   a need exists for alternative gaming systems in order to
   maintain or increase player enjoyment.
35 Summary of the Invention
   In a first aspect, the invention provides a method of
   gaming in a gaming system comprising:
               conducting a series of game rounds;
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                        - 2
                determining as part of each game round in the series
    of game rounds whether a designated game event has
    occurred, each designated game event conferring a benefit
    on the player in the game round in which the designated
  5 game round occurs, and at least one designated event
    conferring a benefit in a plurality of subsequent game
    rounds in the series of game rounds;
                increasing a count in response to the designated game
    event occurring in a game round;
10              ending the series of game rounds in response to the
    count reaching a designated number, whereby the number of
    game rounds is determined by occurrence of the designated
    game event in plural game rounds to thereby set a minimum
    number of game rounds;          and
15              defining when the free games will end in response to
    the count reaching the designated number.
    In an embodiment, the benefit conferred by each designated
    game event persists until the series of game rounds ends.
20
    In an embodiment, the method, further comprises evaluating
    each game round to determine whether to make an award to
    the player.
25  In an embodiment, each game round comprises selecting
    symbols of a plurality of reels for display at a plurality
    of symbol display positions and evaluating each game round
    comprises evaluating the symbols displayed at the symbol
    display positions to determine whether to make an award.
30
    In an embodiment, the designated event includes the
    occurrence of a designated symbol.
    In an embodiment, the designated symbol is a wild symbol.
35
    In an embodiment, each designated symbol is required to
    occur in the symbol display positions corresponding to a
    designated reel.
    9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                       - 3
   In an embodiment, the plurality of designated events
   correspond to designated symbols occurring in symbol
   display positions of respective ones of a plurality of
   reels.
 5
   In an embodiment, each designated symbol is held in place,
   such that for the reel on which it occurs symbols are only
   selected for other display positions of that reel in any
   subsequent game rounds.
10
   In an embodiment, the game is a feature game which is
   conducted in addition to a main game in response to a
   trigger condition being met.
15 In an embodiment, the designated event is the occurrence
   of one or more specified events in a game round such that
   the count increases by one irrespective of the number of
   specified events which occur in a game round.
20 In a second aspect, the invention provides a game
   controller for a gaming system, the game controller
   comprising:
               a game round controller arranged to implement a
   series of game rounds;          and
25             a designated event monitor arranged to determine as
   part of each game round in the series of game rounds
   whether a designated game event has occurred, each
   designated game event conferring a benefit on the player
   in the game round in which the designated game round
30 occurs, and at least one designated event conferring a
   benefit in a plurality of subsequent game rounds in the
   series of game rounds,
               the game round controller arranged to:
               increase a count in response to the designated game
35 event occurring;
               end the series of game rounds in response to the
   count reaching a designated number, whereby the number of
   game rounds is determined by occurrence of the designated
   game event in plural game rounds to thereby set a minimum
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                       - 4
   number of game rounds;          and
               define when the free games will end in response to
   the count reaching the designated number.
 5 In an embodiment, the game round controller is a feature
   game controller for conducting the game rounds as feature
   games in a feature game which is conducted in addition to
   a main game in response to a trigger condition being met,
   the main game being conducted by a main game controller.
10
   In an embodiment, the game controller comprises a game
   round evaluator arranged to evaluate each game round to
   determine whether to make an award to the player.
15 In an embodiment, the game controller is implemented at
   least in part by a processor executing memory code stored
   in a memory.
   In an embodiment, the benefit conferred by each designated
20 game event persists until the series of game rounds ends.
   In an embodiment, each game round comprises the game
   controller selecting symbols of a plurality of reels for
   display at a plurality of symbol display positions and the
25 award evaluator evaluates each game round by evaluating
   the symbols displayed at the symbol display positions to
   determine whether to make an award.
   In an embodiment, the designated event includes the
30 occurrence of a designated symbol.
   In an embodiment, the designated symbol is a wild symbol.
   In an embodiment, each designated symbol is required to
35 occur in the symbol display positions corresponding to a
   designated reel.
   In an embodiment, the plurality of designated events
   correspond to designated symbols occurring in symbol
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                             - 5
   display positions of respective ones of a plurality of
   reels.
   In an embodiment, each designated symbol is held in place,
 5 such that for the reel on which it occurs symbols are only
   selected for other display positions of that reel in any
   subsequent game rounds.
   In an embodiment, the designated event is the occurrence
10 of one or more specified events in a game round such that
   the count increases by one irrespective of the number of
   specified events which occur in a game round.
   In a third aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
15 comprising:
               a display for displaying play of the game to a
   player; and
               a game controller arranged to:
                            conduct a series of game rounds;
20                          determine as part of each game round in the
   series of game rounds whether a designated game event has
   occurred, each designated game event conferring a benefit
   on the player in the game round in which the designated
   game round occurs, and at least one designated event
25 conferring a benefit in a plurality of subsequent game
   rounds in the series of game rounds;
                            increase a count in response to the designated
   game event occurring in a game round;
                            end the series of game rounds in response to the
30 count reaching a designated number, whereby the number of
   game rounds is determined by occurrence of the designated
   game event in plural game rounds to thereby set a minimum
   number of game rounds;                and
                            define when the free games will end in response
35 to the count reaching the designated numbers.
   In an embodiment, the benefit conferred by each designated
   game event persists until the series of game rounds ends.
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                    - 6
    In an embodiment, the game controller is further arranged
    to evaluate each game round to determine whether to make
    an award to the player.
  5 In an embodiment, each game round comprises the game
    controller selecting symbols of a plurality of reels for
    display at a plurality of symbol display positions and the
    game controller evaluates each game round by evaluating
    the symbols displayed at the symbol display positions to
10  determine whether to make an award.
    In an embodiment, the designated event includes the
    occurrence of a designated symbol.
15  In an embodiment, the designated symbol is a wild symbol.
    In an embodiment, each designated symbol is required to
    occur in the symbol display positions corresponding to a
    designated reel.
20
    In an embodiment, the plurality of designated events
    correspond to designated symbols occurring in symbol
    display positions of respective ones of a plurality of
    reels.
25
    In an embodiment, each designated symbol is held in place
    by the game controller, such that for the reel on which it
    occurs symbols are only selected by the game controller
    for other display positions of that reel in any subsequent
30  game rounds.
    In an embodiment, the game is a feature game which is
    conducted in addition to a main game in response to the
    game controller determining that a trigger condition has
35  been met.
    In an embodiment, the designated event is the occurrence
    of one or more specified events in a game round such that
    the game controller increases the count by one
    9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

   irrespective of the number of specified events which occur
   in a game round.
   In a fourth aspect, the invention provides a gaming
 5 machine comprising:
               a cabinet;
               a display mounted within the cabinet for displaying
   play of the game to a player;
               one or more input devices operable by a player to
10 place a wager and initiate play of the game; and
               a game controller in data communication with the
   input devices and display, the game controller comprising
   a processor arranged to execute program code stored in a
   memory in order to conduct a game in response to operation
15 of the one or more input devices, the program code
   including instructions such that at least occasionally,
   the game controller, will as part of game play:
                            conduct a series of game rounds;
                            determine as part of each game round in the
20 series of game rounds whether a designated game event has
   occurred, each designated game event conferring a benefit
   on the player in the game round in which the designated
   game round occurs, and at least one designated event
   conferring a benefit in a plurality of subsequent game
25 rounds in the series of game rounds;
                            increase a count in response to the designated
   game event occurring in a game round;
                            end the series of game rounds in response to the
   count reaching a designated number, whereby the number of
30 game rounds is determined by occurrence of the designated
   game event in plural game rounds to thereby set a minimum
   number of game rounds;                and
                            define when the free games will end in response
   to the count reaching the designated number.
35
   In a fifth aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
   comprising:
               means for displaying play of a game to a player;
               means for conducting a series of game rounds;
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                                  - 8
                means for determining as part of each game round in
    the series of game rounds whether a designated game event
    has occurred, each designated game event conferring a
    benefit on the player in the game round in which the
  5 designated game round occurs, and at least one designated
    event conferring a benefit in a plurality of subsequent
    game rounds in the series of game rounds;
                means for increasing a count in response to the
    designated game event occurring in                    a game round;
10              means for ending the series of game rounds in
    response to the count reaching a designated number,
    whereby the number of game rounds is                    determined by
    occurrence                  of the designated game event in   plural game
    rounds to thereby set a minimum number of game rounds; and
15              ; means for defining when the free games will end in
    response to the count reaching the designated number.
    In     a sixth aspect,                the invention provides computer program
    code which when executed implements the above method.
20
    In     a seventh aspect,                the invention provides a computer
    readable medium comprising the above program code.
    In     an eighth aspect,                the invention extends to transmitting
25  the above program code.
    Brief Description of Drawings
    Embodiments of the invention will now be described with
30  reference to the accompanying drawings in                    which:
    Figure 1 is                    a block diagram of the core components of a
    gaming system;
35  Figure 2 is                    a perspective view of a stand alone gaming
    machine;
    Figure 3 is a block diagram of the functional components
    9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                   -9
   of a gaming machine;
   Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of the functional
   components of a memory;
 5
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a network gaming
   system;
   Figure 6 is a further block diagram of a gaming system;
10 and
   Figure 7 is a flow chart of an embodiment; and
   Figure 8 illustrates an example of the game schematically.
15
   Detailed Description
   Referring to the drawings, there is shown a gaming system
   having a game controller arranged to implement a game
20 where a series of game rounds are conducted and a
   plurality of randomly occurring game events must occur in
   order for the series of game rounds to end.
   Advantageously, the length of the series of game rounds is
   unknown but of at least a minimum length as the plurality
25 of game events must occur before the game rounds end. In
   some embodiments, the nature of the game events is chosen
   to ensure a high likelihood of a positive game outcome
   ending the series of game rounds.
30 General construction of gaming system
   The gaming system can take a number of different forms. In
   a first form, a stand alone gaming machine is provided
   wherein all or most components required for implementing
35 the game are present in a player operable gaming machine.
   In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                                 - 10
   wherein some of the components required for implementing
   the game are present in a player operable gaming machine
   and some of the components required for implementing the
   game are located remotely relative to the gaming machine.
 5 For example, a "thick client" architecture may be used
   wherein part of the game is executed on a player operable
   gaming machine and part of the game is executed remotely,
   such as by a gaming server; or a "thin client"
   architecture may be used wherein most of the game is
10 executed remotely such as by a gaming server and a player
   operable gaming machine is used only to display audible
   and/or visible gaming information to the player and
   receive gaming inputs from the player.
15 However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
   envisaged.                     For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server
   and the respective functions of the gaming machine and the
   gaming server are selectively modifiable.                     For example,
20 the gaming system may operate in stand alone gaming
   machine mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client" mode
   depending on the game being played, operating conditions,
   and so on. Other variations will be apparent to persons
   skilled in the art.
25
   Irrespective of the form, the gaming system has several
   core components. At the broadest level, the core
   components are a player interface 50 and a game controller
   60 as illustrated in Figure 1. The player interface is
30 arranged to enable manual interaction between a player and
   the gaming system and for this purpose includes the
   input/output components required for the player to enter
   instructions to play the game and observe the game
   outcomes.
35
   Components of the player interface may vary from
   embodiment to embodiment but will typically include a
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                                 - 11
   credit mechanism 52 to enable a player to input credits
   and receive payouts, one or more displays 54, a game play
   mechanism 56 including one or more input devices that
   enable a player to input game play instructions                    (e.g. to
 5 place a wager), and one or more speakers 58.
   The game controller 60 is in data communication with the
   player interface and typically includes a processor 62
   that processes the game play instructions in accordance
10 with game play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the
   display. Typically, the game play rules are stored as
   program code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired.
   Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically
   to any device that can process game play instructions in
15 accordance with game play rules and may include:                    a
   microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device
   or other computational device, a general purpose computer
    (e.g. a PC) or a server.
20 A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming
   machine 10 is illustrated in Figure 2. The gaming machine
   10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which are
   displayed representations of a game 16 that can be played
   by a player.                     A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10
25 houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to
   interact with the gaming machine, in particular during
   game play.                     The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input
   mechanism 24 which in this example includes a coin input
   chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.                     Other credit input
30 mechanisms may also be employed, for example, a card
   reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit
   card.            Other gaming machines may configure for ticket in
   such that they have a ticket reader for reading tickets
   having a value and crediting the player based on the face
35 value of the ticker.                     A player marketing module (not
   shown) having a reading device may also be provided for
   the purpose of reading a player tracking device, for
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                            - 12
   example as part of a loyalty program.                 The player tracking
   device may be in the form of a card, flash drive or any
   other portable storage medium capable of being read by the
   reading device. In some embodiments, the player marketing
 5 module may provide an additional credit mechanism, either
   by transferring credits to the gaming machine from credits
   stored on the player tracking device or by transferring
   credits from a player account in                data communication with
   the player marketing module.
10
   A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example
   pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game.                 Further
   artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
15 panel 29 of the console 12.                 A coin tray 30 is mounted
   beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts
   from the gaming machine 10.
   The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video
20 display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
   device.                Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
   crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
   display unit, or the visible portion of an
   electromechanical device.                 The top box 26 may also include
25 a display, for example a video display unit, which may be
   of the same type as the display 14, or of a different
   type.
   Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of
30 a typical gaming machine which may be the same as or
   different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
   having a processor 102 mounted on a circuit board.
35 Instructions and data to control operation of the
   processor 102 are stored in a memory 103, which is in data
   communication with the processor 102.                 Typically, the
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                                 - 13
   gaming machine 100 will include both volatile and non
   volatile memory and more than one of each type of memory,
   with such memories being collectively represented by the
   memory 103.
 5
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
   including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring
   player credit, an input/output (I/0) interface 105 for
   communicating with peripheral devices of the gaming
10 machine 100.                     The input/output interface 105 and/or the
   peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their
   own memory for storing associated instructions and data
   for use with the input/output interface or the peripheral
   devices.                 A random number generator module 113 generates
15 random numbers for use by the processor 102.                      Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that the reference to
   random numbers includes pseudo-random numbers.
   In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120
20 includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 including one or more displays 106, a touch
   screen and/or buttons 107                    (which provide a game play
   mechanism),                    a card and/or ticket reader 108, a printer
   109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110 and a
25 coin output mechanism 111.                      Additional hardware may be
   included as part of the gaming machine 100, or hardware
   may be omitted as required for the specific
   implementation. For example, while buttons or touch
   screens are typically used in gaming machines to allow a
30 player to place a wager and initiate a play of a game any
   input device that enables the player to input game play
   instructions may be used.
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
35 communications interface, for example a network card 112.
   The network card may, for example, send status
   information, accounting information or other information
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                                - 14
   to a bonus controller, central controller, server or
   database and receive data or commands from the bonus
   controller, central controller, server or database.                     In
   embodiments employing a player marketing module,
 5 communications over a network may be via player marketing
   module -               i.e. the player marketing module may be in data
   communication with one or more of the above devices and
   communicate with it on behalf of the gaming machine.
10 Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of
   an exemplary memory 103.                    The memory 103 includes RAM
   103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.                    The RAM
   103A typically temporarily holds program files for
   execution by the processor 102 and related data.                    The
15 EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
   some system or game related code.                    The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game programs, the
   integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B
20 or elsewhere.
   It is also possible for the operative components of the
   gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
   input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
25 provided remotely from the game controller 101.
   Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an
   alternative embodiment.                    The gaming system 200 includes a
   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
30 Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of
   two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the
   network 201.                    The gaming machines 202 provide a player
   operable interface and may be the same as the gaming
   machines 10,100 shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have
35 simplified functionality depending on the requirements for
   implementing game play.                    While banks 203 of two gaming
   machines are illustrated in Figure 5, banks of one, three
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                                - 15
   or more gaming machines are also envisaged.
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the
   network 201.                    For example, the displays 204 may be
 5 associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
   The displays 204 may be used to display representations
   associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
   and/or used to display other representations, for example
   promotional or informational material.
10
   In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   part of the game played by a player using a gaming machine
   202 and the gaming machine 202 implements part of the
   game. With this embodiment, as both the game server and
15 the gaming device implement part of the game, they
   collectively provide a game controller. A database
   management server 206 may manage storage of game programs
   and associated data for downloading or access by the
   gaming devices 202 in a database 206A. Typically, if the
20 gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot
   game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to perform
   accounting functions for the Jackpot game.                    A loyalty
   program server 212 may also be provided.
25 In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   most or all of the game played by a player using a gaming
   machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially
   provides only the player interface.                    With this embodiment,
   the game server 205 provides the game controller. The
30 gaming machine will receive player instructions, pass
   these to the game server which will process them and
   return game play outcomes to the gaming machine for
   display.                  In a thin client embodiment, the gaming machines
   could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running software
35 that provides a player interface operable using standard
   computer input and output components. Other client/server
   configurations are possible, and further details of a
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                          - 16
   client/server architecture can be found in further details
   of a server gaming architecture can be found in WO
   2006/052213 and PCT/SE2006/000559, the disclosures of
   which are incorporated herein by reference.
 5
   Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200, including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208, and a
   licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses
10 relating to particular games.               An administrator terminal
   210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
   network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
   The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming
15 systems, other local networks, for example a corporate
   network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet,
   for example through a firewall 211.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
20 accordance with known techniques, functionality at the
   server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different computers.               For example, elements
   may be run as a single "engine" on one server or a
   separate server may be provided.               For example, the game
25 server 205 could run a random generator engine.
   Alternatively, a separate random number generator server
   could be provided.              Further, persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that a plurality of game servers could be
   provided to run different games or a single game server
30 may run a plurality of different games as required by the
   terminals.
   Further detail of gaming system
35 The embodiment, is described in relation to an
   advantageous arrangement where the game rounds to which
   the plural game event end condition applies are game
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                        - 17
   rounds of a feature game of a spinning reel type game,
   however, persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
   the game rounds need not necessarily be of a feature game
   nor need the game be a spinning reel game but could be a
 5 dice game, a card game etc.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a player's
   win entitlement will vary from game to game. In this
   embodiment, part of obtaining a win entitlement is
10 effected by the player operating game play mechanism 56 to
   make a selection of either, a normal immediate return 56A
   or to indicate that the player accepts deferred payment
   56B. Typically, the player's win entitlement lasts for a
   play of the game. Depending on the specific
15 implementation, the length of a play may be fixed (e.g. a
   single spin of reels of a spinning reel game) or variable
    (e.g. may include any free games awarded).          The play ends
   when nothing further can occur to affect the outcome. In
   the prior art, this is when credits resulting from any
20 wins are transferred from the win meter to the credit
   meter.
   The player operates the game play mechanism 56 to specify
   the win entitlement which will be evaluated for this play
25 of the game and initiates a play of the game. Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that a player's win
   entitlement will vary from game to game dependent on
   player selections. In most spinning reel games, it is
   typical for the player's entitlement to be affected by the
30 amount they wager and selections they make (i.e. the
   nature of the wager).           For example, a player's win
   entitlement may be based on how many lines they play in
   each game - e.g. a minimum of one line up to the maximum
   number of lines allowed by the game           (noting that not all
35 permutations of win lines may be available for selection).
   Such win lines are typically formed by a combination of
   symbol display positions, one from each reel, the symbol
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                   - 18
   display positions being located relative to one another
   such that they form a line.
   In many games, the player's win entitlement is not
 5 strictly limited to the lines they have selected, for
   example, "scatter" pays are awarded independently of a
   players selection of pay lines and are an inherent part of
   the win entitlement.
10 Persons skilled in the art, will appreciate that in other
   embodiments, the player may obtain a win entitlement by
   selecting a number of reels to play. Such games are
   marketed under the trade name "Reel Power" by Aristocrat
   Leisure Industries Pty Ltd. The selection of the reel
15 means that each displayed symbol of the reel can be
   substituted for a symbol at one or more designated display
   positions. In other words, all symbols displayed at symbol
   display positions corresponding to a selected reel can be
   used to form symbol combinations with symbols displayed at
20 a designated, symbol display positions of the other reels.
   For example, if there are five reels and three symbol
   display positions for each reel such that the symbol
   display positions comprise three rows of five symbol
   display positions, the symbols displayed in the centre row
25 are used for non-selected reels. As a result, the total
   number of ways to win is determined by multiplying the
   number of active display positions of each reels, the
   active display positions being all display positions of
   each selected reel and the designated display position of
30 the non-selected reels. As a result for five reels and
   fifteen display positions there are 243 ways to win.
   In other embodiments a player win entitlement may be
   affected by purchasing access to particular pay tables
35 e.g. a first bet amount entitles the player to wins
   including cherries and a second amount entitles them to
   wins including plums.
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                   - 19
   In Figure 6, the processor 62 of game controller 60 is
   shown implementing a number of modules based on program
   code and data stored in memory 64. Persons skilled in the
 5 art will appreciate that various of the modules could be
   implemented in some other way, for example by a dedicated
   circuit.
   These modules include the main game controller 624 which
10 operates in response to the player's operation of game
   play mechanism 56 to place a wager and initiate a play of
   the game which includes deducting credit corresponding to
   the wager form the credit meter stored as meter data 645.
   Main game controller 624 controls outcome generator 622 to
15 generate a game outcome based on main game rules 641 which
   will then be evaluated by award evaluator 623. The first
   part of forming the game outcome is for a symbol selector
   622A to select symbols from a set of symbols specified by
   symbol data 641 using random number generator 621. The
20 selected symbols are advised to the display controller 626
   which causes them to be displayed on display 54 at a set
   of display positions.
   One example of selecting symbols for a spinning reel game
25 is for the symbol selector 622A to select symbols for
   display from a plurality of symbol sets corresponding to
   respective ones of a plurality of spinning reels. The
   symbol sets 641 can specify a sequence of symbols for each
   reel such that the symbol selector 622A can select all of
30 the symbols by selecting a stopping position in the
   sequence. In one example, three symbols of each of five
   reels may be displayed such that symbols are displayed at
   fifteen display positions on display 54. It is known to
   use a probability table stored in memory 64 to vary the
35 odds of a particular stop position being selected. Other
   techniques can be used to control the odds of particular
   outcomes occurring to thereby control the return to player
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                   - 20
   of the game.
   The outcome is evaluated by the outcome evaluator 623
   based on the prize table and any awards are displayed to
 5 the player on display 54 by showing changes to a displayed
   version of a win meter stored as part of meter data 645.
   If no trigger event occurs, the game concludes and the
   balance of the win meter is transferred to the credit
   meter, and the game controller waits for the player to
10 either cash out or initiate another play of the game.
   Main game controller 624 includes a trigger monitor 624A
   to determine whether a trigger event has occurred in
   relation to play of the main game. The trigger event may
15 be any of the trigger events known in the art such as a
   symbol combination in the game outcome, occurrence of a
   specific symbol in the game outcome, purchased, be caused
   by another connected system, based on turnover etc.
20 When a trigger event occurs, main game controller 624
   passed control to feature game controller 625 which
   initiates a series of game rounds    (and thus provides a
   game round controller), which in this embodiment are
   plural spins of reels where symbols are selected by symbol
25 selector 622A of outcome generator 622 based on feature
   game rules 642 which are each evaluated by outcome
   evaluator 623 with any wins added to the win meter. When
   the feature game series is started, an event counter 645
   is initially set to zero, an event monitor 625A monitors
30 for the designated game event and updates the event
   counter 644. When the event counter reaches a designated
   number, feature game controller 625 ends the free game
   series. This can be by making the current free game the
   last free game or defining a specific time at which the
35 free games will end, for example after one or two more
   spins.
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                   - 21
   The designated game event is one, which when it occurs,
   confers a benefit on the player in the sense that it
   either directly enhances winning game outcomes or makes it
   more likely that the player will achieve winning game
 5 outcomes. One example of a game event is the occurrence of
   a wild symbol which makes winning pay table outcomes more
   likely to occur. Another is the award of a multiplier. A
   particular example, is of a held symbol such as a "sticky
   wild" which remains at the display position where it was
10 selected for the duration of the free game series to
   thereby confer a benefit in subsequent game rounds. It
   will be appreciated that in such circumstances, the symbol
   selector 622A will, in effect, only select symbols for the
   other symbol positions as the held symbol supplants the
15 symbol selected at its position. The game event may have
   to satisfy other conditions for it to be deemed a game
   event by the event monitor, for example it may need to
   occur in relation to a specific reel or it may not be a
   second occurrence of a game event within a specific game
20 round. In another embodiment, a designated game event may
   be the combination of two specific events, e.g. two wilds
   being spun-up.
   In some embodiments, an eligibility criteria may be
25 applied for access to the feature game, for example that
   the player has made a certain sized wager, made an ante
   bet, selected all win lines, played sufficient games, or
   the player is a member of a loyalty program.
30 The method 700 is summarised in Figure 7 and is initiated
   in response to receipt 705 of a wager after which a main
   game is conducted 710.It is determined 715 whether a
   trigger event occurs in relation to the main game and when
   a trigger event occurs a feature game is started 720 with
35 a count being set 725 to zero. The method then involves
   generating 730 a game outcome for each feature game round
   and determining 735 whether it includes a designated
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                                 - 22
   event. When it includes a designated game event, the
   counter is incremented 740 and it is determined 745,
   whether the count has reached a designated number such
   that plural game events must occur before the feature game
 5 is ended 750 and hence a minimum number of benefits must
   have been conferred on the player.
   Example
10 Once the feature has been activated the free games
   commence.
   At the commencement (see Figure 8A) of the free games
   there are no sticky wilds in place on display 800.
15
   The free games are continuously awarded until a succession
   of four wilds is spun up from left to right on reels 2 to
   5.
20 Only one wild that is spun up can become sticky in each
   game. Accordingly, the designated game event is that one
   or more wild symbols is spun up. In other examples, each
   wild which is spun up can become sticky but sticky wilds
   must occur in plural game rounds for the feature to be
25 terminated                     - i.e. the designated event is that one or
   more specified events                    (the sticky wilds) occurs in a game
   round.
   The first wild 801 spun up on reel 2 becomes a sticky wild
30  (Figure 8B) and is held in that place for the duration of
   the free games.
   Once the sticky wild 801 is in place on reel 2 the single
   next wild 802 spun up on reel 3                    (figure 8C) in subsequent
35 games becomes a sticky wild and is held in place for the
   duration of the free games.
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                                  - 23
   Once the sticky wild 802 is in place on reel 3 the single
   next wild spun up on reel 4 in subsequent games becomes a
   sticky wild 803                    (figure 8D) and is held in place for the
   duration of the free games.
 5
   Once the sticky wild 803 is in place on reel 4, the single
   next wild spun up on reel 5 in subsequent games becomes a
   sticky wild 804                    (figure 8E) and is held in place for the
   duration of the free games.
10
   Once the sticky wild 804 is in place on reel 5 there is
   one last free game awarded with all 4 wilds stuck in
   place.
15 Once this last free game is awarded the feature is ended
   and the game reverts back to the base reel strip game.
   In the above example, an extra free game is awarded at the
   end of the feature with all 4 sticky wilds held in place.
20 That is,               while the game ends in       response to the 4t sticky
   wild occurring, it does not end immediately. In another
   embodiment, this can be changed, for example, such that
   the free game series ends when the last wild is spun up.
   In a variation, it is possible to award a bonus prize when
25 wilds reach reel 5.
   Further aspects of the method will be apparent from the
   above description of the gaming system. Persons skilled in
   the art will also appreciate that the method could be
30 embodied in program code. The program code could be
   supplied in a number of ways, for example on a tangible
   computer readable medium, such as a magnetic or optical
   disc or a memory                     (for example, that could replace part of
   memory 103),                    or as a data signal   (for example, by
35 transmitting it from a server).
   It will be understood to persons skilled in the art of the
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                   - 24
   invention that many modifications may be made without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, in
   particular, it will be apparent that certain features of
   embodiments of the invention can be employed to form
 5 further embodiments.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred
   to herein, such reference does not constitute an admission
   that the prior art forms a part of the common general
10 knowledge in the art in any country.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding
   description of the invention, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
15 implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
    "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
   i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
   not to preclude the presence or addition of further
   features in various embodiments of the invention.
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                       - 25
   CLAIMS:
   1.          A method of gaming in a gaming system comprising:
 5             conducting a series of game rounds;
               determining as part of each game round in the series
   of game rounds whether a designated game event has
   occurred, each designated game event conferring a benefit
   on the player in the game round in which the designated
10 game round occurs, and at least one designated event
   conferring a benefit in a plurality of subsequent game
   rounds in the series of game rounds;
               increasing a count in response to the designated game
   event occurring in a game round;
15             ending the series of game rounds in response to the
   count reaching a designated number, whereby the number of
   game rounds is determined by occurrence of the designated
   game event in plural game rounds to thereby set a minimum
   number of game rounds;          and
20             defining when the free games will end in response to
   the count reaching the designated number.
   2.          A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the benefit
   conferred by each designated game event persists until the
25 series of game rounds ends.
   3.          A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, further
   comprising evaluating each game round to determine whether
   to make an award to the player.
30
   4.          A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein each game
   round comprises selecting symbols of a plurality of reels
   for display at a plurality of symbol display positions and
   evaluating each game round comprises evaluating the
35 symbols displayed at the symbol display positions to
   determine whether to make an award.
   5.          A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the
   designated event includes the occurrence of a designated
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                       - 26
   symbol.
   6.          A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the
   designated symbol is a wild symbol.
 5
   7.          A method as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6,
   wherein each designated symbol is required to occur in the
   symbol display positions corresponding to a designated
   reel.
10
   8.          A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the plurality
   of designated events correspond to designated symbols
   occurring in symbol display positions of respective ones
   of a plurality of reels.
15
   9.          A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein each
   designated symbol is held in place, such that for the reel
   on which it occurs symbols are only selected for other
   display positions of that reel in any subsequent game
20 rounds.
   10.         A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9,
   wherein the game is a feature game which is conducted in
   addition to a main game in response to a trigger condition
25 being met.
   11.         A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10,
   wherein the designated event is the occurrence of one or
   more specified events in a game round such that the count
30 increases by one irrespective of the number of specified
   events which occur in a game round.
   12.         A game controller for a gaming system, the game
   controller comprising:
35             a game round controller arranged to implement a
   series of game rounds;          and
               a designated event monitor arranged to determine as
   part of each game round in the series of game rounds
   whether a designated game event has occurred, each
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                       - 27
   designated game event conferring a benefit on the player
   in the game round in which the designated game round
   occurs, and at least one designated event conferring a
   benefit in a plurality of subsequent game rounds in the
 5 series of game rounds,
               the game round controller arranged to:
               increase a count in response to the designated game
   event occurring;
               end the series of game rounds in response to the
10 count reaching a designated number, whereby the number of
   game rounds is determined by occurrence of the designated
   game event in plural game rounds to thereby set a minimum
   number of game rounds;          and
               define when the free games will end in response to
15 the count reaching the designated number.
   13.         A game controller as claimed in claim 12, wherein the
   game round controller is a feature game controller for
   conducting the game rounds as feature games in a feature
20 game which is conducted in addition to a main game in
   response to a trigger condition being met, the main game
   being conducted by a main game controller.
   14.         A game controller as claimed in claim 12 or claim 13,
25 comprising a game round evaluator arranged to evaluate
   each game round to determine whether to make an award to
   the player.
   15.         A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 12
30 to 14, implemented at least in part by a processor
   executing memory code stored in a memory.
   16.         A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 12
   to 15, wherein the benefit conferred by each designated
35 game event persists until the series of game rounds ends.
   17.         A game controller as claimed in claim 14, wherein
   each game round comprises the game controller selecting
   symbols of a plurality of reels for display at a plurality
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                             - 28
   of symbol display positions and the award evaluator
   evaluates each game round by evaluating the symbols
   displayed at the symbol display positions to determine
   whether to make an award.
 5
   18.         A game controller as claimed in claim 17, wherein the
   designated event includes the occurrence of a designated
   symbol.
10 19.         A game controller as claimed in claim 18, wherein the
   designated symbol is a wild symbol.
   20.         A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 17
   to 19, wherein each designated symbol is required to occur
15 in the symbol display positions corresponding to a
   designated reel.
   21.         A game controller as claimed in claim 20, wherein the
   plurality of designated events correspond to designated
20 symbols occurring in symbol display positions of
   respective ones of a plurality of reels.
   22.         A game controller as claimed in claim 21, wherein
   each designated symbol is held in place, such that for the
25 reel on which it occurs symbols are only selected for
   other display positions of that reel in any subsequent
   game rounds.
   23.         A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 12
30 to 22, wherein the designated event is the occurrence of
   one or more specified events in a game round such that the
   count increases by one irrespective of the number of
   specified events which occur in a game round.
35 24.         A gaming system comprising:
               a display for displaying play of the game to a
   player; and
               a game controller arranged to:
                            conduct a series of game rounds;
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                             - 29
                            determine as part of each game round in the
   series of game rounds whether a designated game event has
   occurred, each designated game event conferring a benefit
   on the player in the game round in which the designated
 5 game round occurs, and at least one designated event
   conferring a benefit in a plurality of subsequent game
   rounds in the series of game rounds;
                            increase a count in response to the designated
   game event occurring in a game round;
10                          end the series of game rounds in response to the
   count reaching a designated number, whereby the number of
   game rounds is determined by occurrence of the designated
   game event in plural game rounds to thereby set a minimum
   number of game rounds;                and
15                          define when the free games will end in response
   to the count reaching the designated number.
   25.         A gaming system as claimed in claim 24, wherein the
   benefit conferred by each designated game event persists
20 until the series of game rounds ends.
   26.         A gaming system as claimed in claim 24 or claim 25,
   wherein the game controller is further arranged to
   evaluate each game round to determine whether to make an
25 award to the player.
   27.         A gaming system as claimed in claim 26, wherein each
   game round comprises the game controller selecting symbols
   of a plurality of reels for display at a plurality of
30 symbol display positions and the game controller evaluates
   each game round by evaluating the symbols displayed at the
   symbol display positions to determine whether to make an
   award.
35 28.         A gaming system as claimed in claim 27, wherein the
   designated event includes the occurrence of a designated
   symbol.
   29.         A gaming system as claimed in claim 28, wherein the
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                     - 30
   designated symbol is a wild symbol.
   30.         A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 27 to
   29, wherein each designated symbol is required to occur in
 5 the symbol display positions corresponding to a designated
   reel.
   31.         A gaming system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the
   plurality of designated events correspond to designated
10 symbols occurring in symbol display positions of
   respective ones of a plurality of reels.
   32.         A gaming system as claimed in claim 31, wherein each
   designated symbol is held in place by the game controller,
15 such that for the reel on which it occurs symbols are only
   selected by the game controller for other display
   positions of that reel in any subsequent game rounds.
   33.         A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 24 to
20 32, wherein the game is a feature game which is conducted
   in addition to a main game in response to the game
   controller determining that a trigger condition has been
   met.
25 34.         A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 24 to
   33, wherein the designated event is the occurrence of one
   or more specified events in a game round such that the
   game controller increases the count by one irrespective of
   the number of specified events which occur in a game
30 round.
   35.         A gaming machine comprising:
               a cabinet;
               a display mounted within the cabinet for displaying
35 play of the game to a player;
               one or more input devices operable by a player to
   place a wager and initiate play of the game; and
               a game controller in data communication with the
   input devices and display, the game controller comprising
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                               - 31
   a processor arranged to execute program code stored in a
   memory in order to conduct a game in response to operation
   of the one or more input devices, the program code
   including instructions such that at least occasionally,
 5 the game controller, will as part of game play:
                            conduct a series of game rounds;
                            determine as part of each game round in the
   series of game rounds whether a designated game event has
   occurred, each designated game event conferring a benefit
10 on the player in the game round in which the designated
   game round occurs, and at least one designated event
   conferring a benefit in a plurality of subsequent game
   rounds in the series of game rounds;
                            increase a count in response to the designated
15 game event occurring in a game round;
                            end the series of game rounds in response to the
   count reaching a designated number, whereby the number of
   game rounds is determined by occurrence of the designated
   game event in plural game rounds to thereby set a minimum
20 number of game rounds;                  and
                            define when the free games will end in response
   to the count reaching the designated number.
   36.         A gaming system comprising:
25             means for displaying play of a game to a player;
               means for conducting a series of game rounds;
               means for determining as part of each game round in
   the series of game rounds whether a designated game event
   has occurred, each designated game event conferring a
30 benefit on the player in the game round in which the
   designated game round occurs, and at least one designated
   event conferring a benefit in a plurality of subsequent
   game rounds in the series of game rounds;
               means for increasing a count in response to the
35 designated game event occurring in a game round;
               means for ending the series of game rounds in
   response to the count reaching a designated number,
   whereby the number of game rounds is                  determined by
   occurrence                  of the designated game event in plural game
   9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

                                    - 32
  rounds to thereby set a minimum number of game rounds; and
              means for defining when the free games will end in
  response to the count reaching the designated number.
5 37.         A tangible computer readable medium comprising the
  computer program code of claim 36.
  9957920_1(GHMaters) P79730.AU.4

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
