Title:     Container, preform assembly and method and apparatus for
           forming containers.
                                  Abstract
           Container 20 comprising an inner container 2A and an outer
container 3A with facing surfaces, wherein at least part of at least one of the
facing surfaces has a surface roughness higher than about 0.1 Ra and/or
wherein the difference in roughness of said facing surfaces is at least over a
part more than about 0.1 Ra.
           Figure 4

WO 2014/077681                       PCT/NL2013/050813
                   3/12
                            7, 9
                              4A
                                      20
        W6
        W5
                                         8, 10
          3A--                           5A
               -2A
          10
           8
                                       Fdown
                                6
                     bottom       Fig. 4

                                           1
   Title:     Container, preform assembly and method and apparatus for
              forming containers.
              The invention relates to a container and preform assembly for
   such container. The invention further relates to a method and apparatus for
   forming container. The invention relates especially to plastic blow moulded
   containers.
 5           Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should
   in no way be considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known
   or forms part of common general knowledge in the field.
              For forming plastic containers such as bottles it is a well known
   technique to blow mould, for example stretch blow mould a container from
10 an injection moulded preform. Such preform comprises a neck portion
   comprising an opening in fluid communication with an interior space of the
   preform, and a body portion, containing said interior space, surrounded by a
   wall and bottom portion. During the blow moulding process the preform is
   heated and is placed inside a blow mould, after which a stretching rod is
15 inserted into the preform and air is injected into the interior space, for
   stretching the wall and bottom portion, forcing them against the inside of
   the blow mould, bringing the container in the desired shape. Then the
   container is allowed to cool down, to retain that shape.
              It is commonly known to blow mould a container from a mono
20 material preform, leading to a mono material container, having the same
   material properties on the inside and the outside.
              JP2000-062745 and JP06-345069 disclose methods for forming a
   container, in which a multi layer preform is injection moulded and
   subsequently blown into a multi layer container. An opening is provided in
25 the outer layer of the preform, to the inner layer, such that in the container
   the inner layer can at least partly be forced away from the outer layer in the
   neck area, to allow pressure balancing when the inner layer is deformed

                                           2
   during use, for example when a product is dispensed from the inner space of
   the container. This means that the outer layer will remain or at least retain
   it original blow moulded shape during or after such dispensing.
               EP1547768 discloses a method for forming a blow moulded
 5 container, in which a preform is injection moulded and subsequently part of
   the outside of the preform is provided with an outer layer of plastic, by a
   second moulding step. Then the preform is blown into a blow moulded,
   double layer container.
               W091/08099 discloses a method for forming a blow moulded
10 container, wherein a first and second preform are injection moulded
   separately, where after the first, having a neck portion, is inserted into the
   inner space of the second preform, without a neck portion. The outer surface
   of the first preform below the neck portion lies against the inner surface of
   the second, outer preform. The two preforms are then blow moulded
15 together into a multi layer bottle. In this document it is discussed that this
   can increase strength and impermeability of the blow moulded container
   and that it will increase efficiency and flexibility in the manufacturing
   process. This method is described as especially useful for containers having
   a content of between 1.5 and 3 litres.
20             W092/012926 discloses a multi layer bottle, having a
   delaminating inner layer, blow moulded from a multi layer preform. An
   opening is provided near the bottom portion of the container, through the
   outer layer, such that air can be introduced through the opening, forcing the
   delamination of the inner layer. This means that the content of the
25 container can be pressurised without the air coming into contact with the
   contents.
               In these and other known double walled or multilayered
   containers, especially blow moulded containers, in which it is desired or
   necessary that an inner layer or inner container can be released from an
30 adjacent layer or container, such as an intermediate or outer layer, such

                                            3
   release is often a problem, especially controlled release at a sufficiently low
   pressure. This is especially but not exclusively a problem if similar or even
   the same materials are used for both layers of containers. In the art it is
   known to use different materials for the inner and outer container or layer,
 5 which do not adhere to each other when blow moulding the container.
   Additionally or alternatively it is known, for example from W091/09099, to
   provide for a release agent between the two layers or containers, in order to
   prevent such adherence of the adjacent containers or layers or at least easy
   delamination thereof.
10           It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at
   least one of the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful
   alternative.
              Advantageously, at least one preferred embodiment of present
   invention provide containers which, in blow moulded state, have a content of
15 more than three litres, such as but not limited to more than 5 litres, such as
   for example between 8 and 40 litres, such as 10, 20 or 30 litres.
              Advantageously, at least one preferred embodiment of the present
   invention provides containers which are coloured and/or comprise a
   scavenger for limiting or preventing gas migration through the wall of a
20 container and/or scavenger oxygen and/or components of air.
              Advantageously, at least one preferred embodiment of the present
   invention provides for a container in which an inner container or layer can
   easily release from an adjacent container or layer by controlling the
   pressure between said layers or containers, especially by increasing the
25 pressure between said layers or containers. The pressure increase
   preferably is kept relatively low, more preferably in accordance with a
   desired pressure within the container for maintaining the integrity of the
   content therein.

                                            4
               In this disclosure reference will be made to inner and outer
   containers or preforms, which should either one or both also be understood
   as including inner and outer layers of a container or preform.
             Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the
 5 description and the claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like
   are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or
   exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not limited
   to".
               A preform assembly according to the description can be
10 characterised by at least an outer preform and an inner preform, fitting at
   least partly inside the outer preform, both having a neck forming portion, a
   shoulder forming portion and a body forming portion. At least one of the
   inner and outer preform has a surface region in contact with the other of the
   inner and outer preform, wherein at least part of said region has a surface
15 roughness of at least 0.1 Ra and/or a surface roughness which is at least 0.1
   Ra higher than the surface roughness of the surface area of the other of the
   inner and outer preform with which it is in contact. Alternatively or
   additionally the said at least part of the surface region has a roughness such
   that in a container integrally blow moulded from said assembly of preforms
20 the surface area of one of the containers formed from said surface region has
   a surface roughness of at least 0.1 Ra and/or a surface roughness of at least
   0.1 Ra higher than the surface roughness of an adjacent surface area of the
   adjacent container.
               A container according to the description can be characterized by
25 an inner container and an outer container with facing surfaces. At least part
   of at least one of the facing surfaces has a surface roughness higher than
   about 0.1 Ra. Additionally or alternatively a difference in roughness of said
   facing surfaces is at least over a part more than about 0.1 Ra. The container
   is preferably blow moulded from a preform or set of preforms, more

                                           5
   preferably integrally blow moulded from a set of preforms comprising at
   least an inner and an outer preform.
              A method for forming a preform assembly for blow moulding a
   container according to the description can be characterized by a method in
 5 which a first preform is injection moulded and a second preform is injection
   moulded, wherein the first preform is inserted into the second preform
   and/or the second preform is provided over the first preform. At least one of
   the preforms is injection moulded from a plastic mass containing particles
   different from the plastic. Preferably, the first preform is injection moulded.
10 Preferably, the particles are metal and/or metalized particles, such as metal
   and/or metalized flakes.
              An apparatus for providing a preform assembly can be
   characterized by comprising at least one first mould cavity for forming a
   first preform and at least one second mould cavity for forming a second
15 preform. The apparatus can further comprise at least one transfer device for
   moving a first preform into a second preform and/or a second preform over a
   first preform.
              Some further advantageous embodiments of a preform assembly,
   container, method and apparatus are described in the further claims. Some
20 embodiments will be described hereafter in relation to the drawings, by way
   of example only and which should by no means be understood as limiting
   the scope of the invention as claimed in any way. Herein shows:
              Fig. 1 schematically in cross section a preform assembly in a first
   embodiment;
25            Fig. 1A schematically a detail of the neck area of a preform
   assembly;
              Fig. 2 schematically in cross section a preform assembly in a
   second embodiment;
              Fig. 3 schematically in cross section a preform assembly in a third
30 embodiment;

                                            6
               Fig. 4 schematically and partially in cross section a container, in a
   first embodiment;
               Fig. 5 schematically and partially in cross section a container, in a
   second embodiment;
 5             Fig. 6 schematically preform assembly and container;
               Fig. 7 schematically a neck portion of a container with a closure,
   in a first embodiment; and
               Fig. 8 schematically a neck portion of a container with a closure,
   in a second embodiment;
10             Fig. 9 in exploded view an alternative embodiment of a preform
   assembly with a closure ring;
               Fig. 10A in top view an upper part of a preform set or a container
   blow moulded from a preform set, especially one according to fig. 9;
               Fig. 10B in cross section along the line X - X in fig. 10A an upper
15 part of a container;
               Fig. 11A and B schematically an upper part of a container with a
   tapping assembly, in two alternative settings;
               Fig. 12A and B schematically and partially in cross section part of
   a container, showing a surface region having a surface roughness;
20             Fig. 13A and B in two embodiments part of a wall of a container,
   not on scale, having particles dispersed therein;
               Fig. 14 the starting pressure and spread in starting pressure for
   four containers.
               In this description and the drawings the same or corresponding
25 elements have the same or corresponding reference signs. The embodiments
   shown and/or described are given by way of example only and are not to be
   considered limiting in any way. Many variations are possible within the
   scope of the present disclosure, which variations of for example parts of or
   combinations of parts of the embodiments shown also are considered to have
30 been disclosed.

                                           7
              In this description blow moulding has to be understood as at least
   comprising but not limited to stretch blow moulding, wherein a preform is
   heated, stretched lengthwise and blown into a desired shape. During
   lengthwise stretching the preform can already be blown to some extend.
 5            In this description a preform, which can also be a parison, has to
   be understood as at least including but not limited to an element injection
   moulded from plastic, to be blown into a blow moulded container. In this
   description preforms shall be described for blow moulding containers which
   basically have a bottle shape, including a neck portion, a body portion and a
10 bottom portion, but it will be obvious to any skilled person that different
   shapes of containers can be made using different shapes of preforms falling
   within the same inventive concept. A preform can be single or multi layer. A
   multi layer preform can be manufactured using well known techniques,
   such as but not limited to co-injection, co-extrusion or over moulding. A
15 multi layer preform can have a delaminating layer or layers. Preform sets or
   assemblies can be formed from two or more preforms, assembled or co
   moulded, for example by over moulding.
              In this description wording like about and substantially should be
   understood as meaning that variations of a given value it refers to are
20 allowable within the given definition, which variations can at least be 5%,
   preferably at least 10% and more preferably at least 15% of the given value.
   In this description up and down, top and bottom and the like are used in
   their common sense, as for example shown in fig. 4 with respect to a
   container standing on a bottom portion 6.
25            In this description preforms and containers will be discussed
   made of PET or PET blends. However, preforms and containers according to
   the present disclosure could also be made of different materials, blends or
   combinations of materials, such as but not limited to polypropylene or
   polystyrene, PEN, polyethylene, Polycarbonate, PBT, blends of the forgoing
30 or combinations thereof. In case of PET or PET blends, standard PET has to

                                           8
   be understood in this respect as at least including PET without added
   additives for preventing crystallisation of the PET during forming such as
   injection moulding of a preform.
              In this description reference shall be made to containers for
 5 holding and dispensing beverages, especially carbonated beverages such as
   beer and soft drinks. However other contents can be stored and dispensed
   using a container according to this description.
              In the present disclosure preforms can be formed of a plastic
   material that can be stretch blow moulded into a container having a
10 relatively thin wall or combination of walls, wherein the preform is
   substantially amorf, whereas the bottle is at least partly crystalline.
   Preferably the preform is formed of a material substantially free of
   crystallisation preventing additives, such as glycol or co-monomers as
   isophtalic acid or cyclohexanedimethanol. It has been recognised that such
15 additives can be favourable in injection moulding a preform substantially
   amorf, but these additives remain in the blown container, which is
   detrimental to the strength and/or stiffness of the container. The preforms
   are preferably injection moulded having a wall thickness sufficiently small
   to substantially prevent crystallisation of the plastic material.
20        In this description stretch blow molding is described for forming
   containers from preform assemblies. These containers are preferably blow
   molded at a temperature just above the glass transition temperature of the
   plastics material. More preferably the plastics material is conditioned,
   stretched and orientated just above the glass transition temperature of the
25 plastics material.
          In a container according to this description in the plastics material
   can have a degree of crystallization. In embodiments the preforms of a
   preform assembly can be stretch blow molded such that they obtain a
   different degree of crystallization. This effect can be obtained by stretching
30 the plastics material of the different preforms to a different ratio, especially

                                            9
   to a different axial ratio, hoop ration and/or blow up ratio, by stretching and
   blow molding at different temperatures, by influencing the heating and/or
   cooling temperatures of the different preforms or by combinations thereof.
   In other embodiments different preforms of the assembly can be made of
 5 different materials or blends.
          In all embodiments disclosed or described an axial length of an inner
   preform can be smaller than the axial length of the outer container and/or
   an diameter of the inner preform can be smaller than the inner diameter of
   the outer container, such that adjacent parts of the preforms can be spaced
10 apart, allowing the inner container to be stretched and/or blown either
   axially or diametrically or in both direction before the outer container is
   directly or indirectly engaged thereby and is stretched and/or blow molded
   too.
          In a container according to the description there are preferably at
15 least an inner container and an outer container, the inner container formed
   from an inner preform, the outer container formed from an outer preform.
   Inner has to be understood as at least meaning extending substantially
   within the outer preform or container, and does not necessarily refer to an
   innermost preform or container. Preferably at least one of and more
20 preferably both the outer and inner container have areas of crystallization
   connected by amorphous portions. In an embodiment the outer container
   can have a lower degree of crystallization than the inner container, such
   that the inner container is stronger and the outer container is more impact
   resistant. The outer container can for example have a crystallization rate of
25 between 14 and 22% of the material, preferably measured by volume,
   whereas the inner container can for example have a higher rate of
   crystallization, for example between 22 and 35% or higher, such as between
   28 and 32%, wherein higher degrees are preferred. This can for example be
   obtained by increasing the temperature of the inner preform or by stretch
30 blow molding to a higher ratio.

                                           10
          In embodiments of containers according to this description a part of at
   least the wall of a body forming portion and/or of the bottom forming portion
   of an inner or outer container can be made thicker than the further parts of
   the same body forming portion or bottom forming portion. Surprisingly it
 5 has been recognized that such areas in stretch blow molded containers,
   especially in crystallizing materials, form weak areas of the containers
   which can be exploited to provide designated failure areas in the container.
   This has to be understood as meaning at least that if for example the
   internal pressure in the container is becoming higher than a desired
10 maximum value or if the container is pierced, resulting in sudden pressure
   changes, the container will fail mainly or entirely in at least one of these
   designated failure areas. This can increase user safety further.
          In the present disclosure preforms and containers formed there from
   are described, made of plastic. To this end a plastic mass is used, for
15 example formed from melting plastic pallets or the like, in a known manner,
   for example in an extruder, which mass is then injection moulded in a
   known manner into the or each preform. In this description to such mass
   particles can be added, different from the plastics from which the mass is
   made. Particles are to be understood at least as, but not limited to entities
20 which are relatively small compared to for example wall thickness of the
   preforms, and will be contained in a dispersed manner throughout the
   preform made from said mass, and thus also through the container or at
   least part thereof made from said mass comprising said particles. The
   particles can be flakes, and can be made of or using metal or metalizing. The
25 particles are preferable made of a material such that they maintain there
   integrity during both injection moulding and blow moulding.
          In this disclosure flakes should be understood as including, but not
   limited to, particles having a substantially sheet like appearance, which
   could be understood as having a thickness in one direction smaller than in
30 directions perpendicular to said one direction. The particles can have any

                                          11
   shape or form, for example having single or multiple curved surfaces or flat
   surfaces. Particles can have or be enclosed at least partly in a covering layer
   of a different material, for example a material having a lower melting
   temperature than the plastic, or a lower melting temperature than the glass
 5 transition temperature of the plastic. The covering layer can be made of for
   example a wax or wax like material. In a preferred embodiment material of
   the covering layer is mostly contained within the wall of the relevant
   preform and/or container formed there from, such that it is not precipitated
   from the wall. In a preform formed from such mass the particles are
10 believed to be contained in a dispersed manner between monomer and/or
   polymer chains of the plastic. The material at least partly covering the
   particles may interact with the monomers and/or polymers or parts thereof.
   In embodiments the particles can be distributed substantially evenly
   through the wall of a container or part thereof formed from the preform. In
15 embodiments the particles can be distributed unevenly through the wall of a
   container or part thereof formed from the preform, for example such that
   during injection moulding and/or blow moulding at least part of the particles
   is positioned in or near a surface or surface area of the preform and/or the
   container.
20        It has been found that by providing such particles in the wall of a
   preform and blow moulding a container from said preform, at least a surface
   or surface area or region of the container facing a wall of an adjacent
   container, especially the container part against which said surface region or
   area sis pressed during blow moulding, will be provided having a surface
25 roughness higher than that which would be obtained without said particles.
   Even if the amount of particles is relatively small, for example between 0.2
   and 5% in weight of the preform, more specifically between 0.3 and 3% in
   weight. It has been found that the surface roughness can be increased to for
   example above 0.1 Ra, more specifically above 0.3 Ra, such as for example
30 about 0.35 Ra or more, for a container blow moulded from a preform made

                                          12
   with PET or a PET blend, which would have a surface roughness of between
   about 0.05 and 0.1 when formed from a preform without such particles.
   Surprisingly it has been found that by increasing the surface roughness of a
   surface region or area of a container facing an adjacent container, wherein
 5 the first can for example be an inner container and the latter the outer
   container or vice versa, the pressure necessary for releasing the relevant
   surface area of the inner container from the outer container and/or vice
   versa can be significantly reduced in comparison to the same container
   having identical inner and outer containers, formed without such surface
10 area having an increased surface roughness.
          In advantageous embodiments of the present disclosure at least in a
   shoulder region of a container such surface area or region is provided having
   a surface roughness of at least about 0.1 Ra and/or about 0.1 Ra higher that
   that of the surface area of the other container in contact therewith. It has
15 been found that especially in such shoulder area release of the walls of the
   inner and outer containers from each other, that is forcing them sufficiently
   apart in order to allow the pressure fluidum such as gas, especially air, or a
   liquid, such as for example water, such as cooled water, to pass into the
   space around the body forming region of the inner container requires
20 relatively high pressures, which can significantly be reduced by increasing
   said surface roughness. Cooled water as pressure medium may have the
   advantage that it will add to cooling or at least keeping cooled the content of
   the container during use.
          In advantageous embodiments of the present invention additional to
25 providing such particles or as alternative thereto for increasing the surface
   roughness of at least part of a surface of a preform or container such part of
   a preform or container can be roughened differently, for example by
   chemically or mechanically working said surface area, for example by
   (chemical) etching, sand-, glass- or ice-blasting, sanding, grinding or the
30 like, providing texture on said surface area. Alternatively the injection

                                           13
   mould in which the relevant preform is to be injection moulded could be
   provided with a surface area having an increased surface roughness, such
   that preforms are obtained with such mould which result in a blow moulded
   container having the desired roughened surface portion with a surface
 5 roughness above 0.1 Ra, more specifically above 0.3 Ra, such as for example
   between 0.3 and 1 Ra, for example between 0.3 and 0.7 Ra. Obviously such
   embodiments can be combined with adding said particles to the plastic mass
   for forming the preform.
          In a preform, especially an inner preform, or an inner container
10 formed there from preferably the wall of at least a neck region and body
   forming portion thereof is substantially opaque or non-transparent, and
   preferably is silver coloured. In this disclosure the indication silver coloured
   has to be understood at least as meaning having an overall impression of a
   colour akin to silver, which may include for example the appearance of or
15 provided by aluminum or alloys thereof, platinum, titanium, cold or warm
   grey or the like. Preferably the particles provide for at least partial
   reflection of light. Silver can for example be comparable to but is not limited
   to Pantone colour PMS420 to 431, 535 to 537, 5425, 5435, 5445, cool grey 3
   to 9 or warm grey 3 to 9, or as provided by Holland Colours, The
20 Netherlands, as Holcobatch silver.
          In embodiments of the present invention the entire surface of a
   preform or container or at least of a body forming and shoulder forming
   region thereof can have substantially the same surface roughness of more
   than about 0.1 Ra, more particularly more than about 0.3 Ra in the blow
25 moulded container. In alternative embodiments only part of said surface can
   have such surface roughness, the surface roughness of the further container
   being lower than 0.1 Ra.
          In this disclosure surface roughness expressed in pm Ra and is to be
   understood at least as defined in IS04287 or similar. Areas having an
30 increased surface roughness, especially a surface roughness of more than

                                            14
   0.1 Ra preferably are provided such that the Ry and Rz are not too high, for
   example below 2, more preferably below 1. A surface roughness in this
   disclosure preferably means a texture of said surface area which is
   randomly or at least semi randomly defined, which texture can for example
 5 be comparable with sanding paper or orange skin.
          It has been found that by providing the said surface area with an
   increased surface roughness, especially above about 0.1 Ra, more especially
   above about 0.3 Ra, even more specifically about 0.35 Ra or more, and/or by
   providing containers having facing surface areas having a surface roughness
10 difference of at least about 0.1 Ra, more especially above about 0.3 Ra, even
   more specifically about 0.35 Ra or more, the use of a release agent between
   said surface areas or even between the inner and outer container is no
   longer necessary or can at least be limited in view of known preform
   assemblies and container blow moulded therefore, generally referred to as
15 BIC or BIB containers. This can have economic advantages, since no or less
   release agent has to be applied, as well as technical and environmental
   advantages. An advantage can be that since no or less release agent is
   needed, the problem that over time the release agent will flow can be
   avoided. In the known art release agent is used covering about the entire
20 contact surface between an inner and outer container, by applying the
   release agent between the inner and outer preforms. When these assembled
   preforms are stored, prior to use, that is prior to blow moulding, for example
   inline in a filling line, the release agent may flow, due to gravity, to the
   lowest point of the preform assembly, which could mean that the force
25 necessary to separate the parts of the containers from which the release
   agent has flowed will again increase significantly. In a preform assembly
   according to the present invention only a limited supply of or even no
   release agent is necessary, whereas a roughened surface area may aid in
   keeping the release agent from flowing better than a smoother surface.

                                            15
           In this description preform set and preform assembly are used as
   interchangeable, unless indicated differently. In this description in a
   container blow moulded from a preform, preform assembly or preform set an
   inner layer is obtained, also referred to as inner container or bag, formed
 5 generally from the inner or first preform and an outer layer, also referred to
   as outer container, formed generally from the outer or second preform. As
   discussed "inner" and "outer" in this respect has to be understood as
   meaning that the "inner" layer of container is positioned at least for the
   largest part within the "outer" layer or container, whereas an interface or
10 space is provided between said inner and outer layer or container, but they
   do not necessarily have to be the inner most and outer most layers or
   containers, as for example shown in fig. 3. IN the further description an
   inner preform may also be referred to as first preform, an outer preform as
   second preform, unless specifically defined differently.
15         In fig. 1 - 3 schematically a preform assembly 1 is shown, comprising
   a first preform 2, positioned inside a second preform 3. The first and second
   preforms 2, 3 can be injection moulded separately, in single or multi cavity
   moulds, where after the first preform 2 can be inserted into the second
   preform 3, by relative movement of the preforms 2, 3. Alternatively they
20 could be made integrally, for example using over moulding techniques
   known in the art. In the embodiments shown the preform assembly has a
   neck 4 and a body 5 extending from the neck 4, closed at the end opposite
   the neck 4 by a bottom 6 as part of the body 5. In the embodiment shown the
   first preform 2 comprises a neck portion 7 and a body forming portion 8. The
25 second preform also comprises a neck portion 9 and a body forming portion
   10. In the position as shown in fig. 1 the body forming portion 8 of the first
   preform 2 extends inside the body forming portion 10 of the second preform
   3, whereas the neck portion 7 of the first preform 2 extends substantially
   within the neck portion 9 of the second preform 3. Obviously the inner
30 preform 2 could also extend partly outside the outer preform 3.

                                            16
               The body forming portion 8 of the first preform 2 can have a wall
    11, extending at least between the neck portion 7 and a bottom forming
   portion 12 of the first preform 2, which has a thickness W 1 of less than
   about 8 millimetres. The wall thickness W 1 of the wall 11 can be less than
 5 about 6 millimetres. The body forming portion 10 of the second preform 3
   can have a wall 13, extending at least between the neck portion 9 and a
   bottom forming portion 14 of the second preform 3, which has a thickness
   W 2 of less than about 8 millimetres. The wall thickness W 2 of the wall 13
   can be less than about 6 millimetres. The wall thickness W 1 of the first
10 preform 2 can be smaller than the wall thickness W 2 of the second preform
   3, or vice versa. In another embodiment the wall thicknesses W 1 and W 2 can
   be about the same. The wall thicknesses W 3 , 4 of the bottom forming portions
   12, 14 of the first and second preforms 2, 3, can be smaller than the
   thicknesses W 1 , W 2 of the walls 11, 13 connected thereto. In another
15 embodiment the thicknesses can be similar or bigger. In embodiments for
   forming a BIC or BIB type container, in which the inner container can be
   compressed for dispensing the content by pressurising the space between
   the inner and outer container, as will be discussed hereafter, the inner
   preform 2 may, at least in the body forming portion, for example have a wall
20 thickness W1 close to a minimum wall thickness obtainable by injection
   moulding of said preform 2, whereas the outer preform 3 may, at least in the
   body forming portion, have a wall thickness close to the maximum allowable
   wall thickness for injection moulding said preform without thermal
   crystallisation. The wall thickness W1 may be significantly smaller than the
25 second wall thickness W2, for example half or less thereof.
               When a container 20 is blow moulded from the preform assembly
   1 of for example fig. 1 or 2 the container 20 will, as shown in fig. 4, have an
   inner layer 2A, formed from the first preform 2, and an outer layer 3A,
   formed from the second preform 3. The layers 2A, 3A shall, in the body
30 portion 5A of the container 20, have thicknesses W 5 , W 6 respectively,

                                            17
   defined mainly by the original wall thicknesses W 1 , W 2 of the preforms 2, 3
   respectively, and the extend to which the preforms are stretched. In an
   advantageous embodiment during blow moulding the container 20 the body
   forming portion 8 of the first preform 2 will be stretched further, that is to a
 5 higher extend than the body portion 10 of the second preform 3. In an
   embodiment this is done such that the inner layer 2A shall be stronger but
   more brittle than the second, outer layer 3A, which will be less stiff but
   more ductile. In an other embodiment the preforms 2, 3 can be substantially
   evenly stretched, resulting in similar material properties. In another
10 embodiment the preforms can be heated to and/or blow molded at different
   temperatures, influencing crystallization. Combinations of these
   embodiments are also possible.
              For blow moulding container of a size above 3 litres, especially
   above 5 litres, such as containers for carbonated beverages having a volume
15 of about 10 litres or more, using a single preform, a preform normally will
   have a wall thickness of more than about 6 to 8 mm. By reducing the wall
   thickness W 1 , W 2 of the preforms 2, 3, especially below about 8 mm, more
   preferably close to or below 6 mm, the cycle time for injection moulding the
   preforms will be reduced significantly over single preforms for blow
20 moulding the same sized and dimensioned containers. Moreover, better
   mechanical properties can be obtained, whereas for example permeability
   for gasses such as 02 and CO 2 can be optimized. As indicated additives can
   be added to the different preforms, such that they do not interfere with each
   other or with the materials used for the preforms, which materials may be
25 different or the same for the preforms 2, 3.
              It has been recognised here that by injection moulding the
   preforms from a plastic prone to crystallisation, such as PET, by reducing
   the wall thicknesses of the preforms 2, 3 to around or below 8 mm,
   preferably to around or below 6 mm, at least for the parts to be stretched
30 later on, crystallisation of the plastic material in the preform can easily be

                                           18
   prevented substantially or preferably entirely, even with standard PET,
   whereas the preform can be stretched to such extend that crystallisation in
   the container wall can be obtained. This can obviate the need for using more
   expensive and more difficult to handle grades of plastic. Moreover, using
 5 standard grades of plastics such as but not limited to PET can have the
   advantage that the plastic, especially a container blow moulded therefore
   will have better mechanical properties and especially will be less prone to
   creep. By having to use no or substantially no crystallisation preventing
   additives in the plastic, such as glycol or other such additives known in the
10 art, the preform can be stretch blow moulded into a relatively strong and/or
   stiff and/or rigid container, because said additives will not be present in the
   container. An optimal stretch ratio can be obtained, resulting in a light and
   strong container. For as far as the container is blow moulded from one
   preform this can have specific mechanical properties, whereas the part of
15 the container blow moulded out of another of the preforms in the preform
   assembly, the latter can be made for example more pliable, more flexible,
   more shock absorbing or otherwise have different mechanical and/or
   chemical properties.
              By using different preforms assembled and stretch blow moulded
20 into one container, the preforms can be optimised, for example for heat
   transferring and heat absorbing properties. By amending for example the
   colouring of one of the preforms compared to the or each other preforms, the
   heating of the preforms can be optimized. For example an inner preform can
   be made darker than the outer preform, resulting in the advantage that
25 when the preforms are heated together from an outside of the preforms, the
   heat will be better absorbed by the inner preform than by the outer preform.
   Since the inner preform will be further away from the heating source than
   the outer preform, this will lead to a further optimized heating, especially a
   more even heating of the preforms. Alternatively or next to the colour
30 differences between the preforms, the adjacent surfaces of the preforms can

                                            19
   be optimized, for example by amending the roughness of the surfaces, to
   influence heat transfer from the outer preform to the inner preform or vice
   versa by amending the interface between the preforms. Obviously since the
   neck portions of the preforms will substantially not be deformed during blow
 5 moulding, the above is especially relevant for the parts of the preform(s)
   that will be heated and stretched.
           In an embodiment the outer preform 3 can be made of a highly impact
   resistant polymer, stretch blow moldable material, preferably a material
   having an impact resistance of more than 250 according to the standard
10 Notched Izod Impact Test. Such material can for example be but is not
   limited to modified Nylon, toughened Nylon 6,6, blends of polycarbonate,
   impact modified PBT and impact modified PBT/PET. Such impact resistant
   materials will provide an outer container which can prevent to a high degree
   the container 20 from exploding uncontrollably when for example pierced. In
15 another embodiment at least one of the first and second preform or
   container can be provided with an integral layer of such high impact
   material.
               In this description a wall thickness W has to be understood as an
   average thickness of a wall or relevant part thereof. Preferably the
20 thickness of the walls of body forming portions of preforms 2, 3, except
   possibly for the bottom forming portions and possibly an area 15 near the
   transition of the neck portion to the body forming portion, is substantially
   constant or has a substantially smooth course.
               As is shown in more detail in fig. 1A, the neck portion 7 of the
25 first preform 2 can have an outward reaching flange 22 near or at a free
   edge 23 thereof, whereas the neck portion 9 of the second preform 3 can
   have a first portion 24 near the free edge 25 thereof and a second portion 26
   between said first portion 24 and the body forming portion 10. The first
   portion 24 is slightly wider than the second portion 26, such that the flange
30 22 can abut the transition 27 between the first and second portions 24, 26,

                                           20
   and cannot pass the second portion 26. Thus the first preform 2 is again
   prevented from being inserted further into the second preform 3, whereas
   when a container 20 is blown there from the second portion 26 of the second
   preform 3 will extend and be enclosed between the flange 22 and the body
 5 forming portion 8 of the inner layer 2A of the wall, such that the inner layer
   2A is kept in position relative to the outer layer 3A mechanically, even if no
   adherence or other connecting means between said layers 2A, 3A is present.
   Obviously other means can be provided for locking the first preform relative
   to the second preform.
10             In an embodiment the neck portion 9 of the second preform 3 can
   have at least one and for example two flanges extending outward. In an
   embodiment two flanges 28, 29 can be provided, extending substantially
   parallel to each other. In an embodiment one flange 28 can extend at or near
   a level of the transition 27 between the first and second portion 24, 26, such
15 that this flange can aid to shape retaining of the relevant part of the neck 4,
   thus further preventing the inner layer or preform 2 to come loose from the
   outer layer or preform 3. In an embodiment another flange 29 can be
   provided between the first flange 28 and the body 5 and can be used for
   example but not limited to for engagement during transfer of the preform 3
20 or preform assembly, during transport of the assembly, during blow
   moulding, during filling and for attachment of a cap, lid, valve assembly,
   dispensing device or other means. This flange can also aid in shape
   retention of the neck 4. In an embodiment the flange 29 can extend further
   outward than the first flange 28. In embodiments only one flange can be
25 provided.
               A preform assembly 1 can be made of PET or PET blends. In an
   embodiment the first preform 2 can be made of virgin plastic material or at
   least a food or beverage grade plastic material. In an embodiment the
   second preform 3 can be made of recycled plastic material. In an
30 embodiment an additive can be provided in the plastic material for

                                           21
   influencing, especially reducing migration of gas through the wall of the
   container, such as but not limited to for example an 02 or CO 2 barrier. In an
   embodiment one of the first and second preforms 2, 3 can comprise a barrier
   material scavenger, for gas migrating into or through the plastic material.
 5 The barrier material can be or contain a scavenger, such asan 02 scavenger.
   In an alternative embodiment the barrier material or scavenger can be for a
   different gas, such as but not limited to CO 2 . A gas migration limiting or
   preventing additive and/or a scavenger can have the benefit that for
   example oxidation of the content of a container 20 blown from the preform
10 assembly 1 can be prevented or at least limited. In an embodiment one of
   the first and second preforms 2, 3 can comprise a colorant, such as but not
   limited to green, brown, blue, yellow or red. Colouring of the preform 2, 3
   and thus of a container 20 to be formed therewith can have the advantage of
   shielding contents of the container and/or the container itself against
15 deterioration or at least influence of the content by for example radiation. In
   an embodiment the first preform 2 can comprise the gas migration limiting
   or preventing additive and/or the scavenger, whereas the gas migration
   limiting or preventing additive and/or the scavenger and the colorant can
   provided in the same preform or in different preforms. Especially in BIC or
20 BIB type containers it is preferably that most, if not all of the additives and
   barrier elements are provided in and/or on the inner preform. An advantage
   of adding a gas migration limiting or preventing additive and/or a scavenger
   to one of the preforms only can be that less of the additive and/or scavenger
   is necessary in the preform assembly 1, reducing the cost of the relatively
25 expensive additives and/or scavengers. Preferably at least about 3% in
   weight of scavenger is added to the plastics material. Such scavenger can for
   example be an oxygen scavenger or a C02 scavenger. Obviously other
   materials or blends can be used, such as but not limited to PVC, PP or PAN.
              In an embodiment the first preform 2 and/or the second preform 3
30 can be provided with at least one and preferably several openings 30 in the

                                            22
   neck forming portion, extending there through. The opening or openings 30
   can be provided below a free edge 23 of the first preform 2. In an
   embodiment having a first flange 28 the or each opening 30 can be provided
   at a level at or just below the first flange. In an embodiment having a
 5 transition 27, the or each opening can be provided just below said transition
   27. In an embodiment having at least two flanges 28, 29, the or each
   opening 30 can be provided at a level between the first and second flange 28,
   29. Openings 30 can be provided at different levels.
              In the embodiments shown the or each opening 30 opens at one
10 side into an interior V1 of the preform assembly 1 and thus into an interior
   space V of a bottle 20 blown there from. In embodiments in which the or
   each opening 30 is provided in the outer preform 3, such as for example
   shown in fig. 9 - 11, or between the neck regions of the inner and outer
   preforms 2, 3 or containers 2A, 3A, for example in axial direction parallel to
15 the axis L, the opening 30 will open into the environment or at least in a
   direction away from the inner volume V, V1. At the opposite side the or each
   opening 30 can open into a space 31 between the neck forming portion 7 of
   the first preform 2 and the neck forming portion 9 of the second preform 3.
   The space 31 can be provided with spacers 32, such as ribs, notches or other
20 elements extending between part of the neck forming portions 7, 9 below the
   free edge 23. These spacers can have the advantage that they keep at least
   part of the outside of the neck portion 7 of the first preform spaced from at
   least part of the second preform 3, at least the inner surface thereof. In a
   preferred embodiment the spacers 32 can extend into a shoulder forming
25 portion 50 of the container 20 or preform assembly 1. This results in space
   between an inner and outer wall in the shoulder portion of the container
   blow moulded from the preform assembly 1. This can have the advantage
   that a pressure fluid, especially a pressure gas can be brought easier
   between an inner and outer wall portion of the body of the container 20,
30 which can result in a more even pressure build up, advantageous to a

                                           23
   homogenous dispensing pattern of the beverage from the container 20. The
   space 31 can extend further between the body forming portions of the inner
   and outer preforms 2, 3 or containers 2A, 3A.
               A lid 33 can be provided in and/or on the container 20, as shown
 5 schematically in for example fig. 5,7, 8 and 10. The lid 33 can be provided in
   any suitable manner, such as for example but not limited to welding, such
   as but not limited to ultrasonic welding, spin welding, clinching, press fit,
   screw threads, bayonet closure, gluing or other suitable means. The lid 33
   closes off the internal volume of the container 20. A dispense opening 34 is
10 provided in the lid 33. In an embodiment a valve 35 can be provided in the
   dispense opening, which can be a known beverage valve such as but not
   limited to a beer valve. In the embodiment shown the valve 35 is provided in
   and over the opening 34 by a clinch connection 42, wherein the opening 34 is
   larger than the clinch plate 42A of the clinch connection. This can provide
15 for the possibility of providing the lid 33 prior to blow moulding the
   preforms into a container, whereas the clinch connection can be made after
   filling the container through the opening 34. In another embodiment the
   valve 35 can be provided in a different manner, for example by welding,
   screwing, pressfit, and/or by providing a plastic valve assembly, which can
20 for example be partly or entirely made integrally with the lid 33. Preferably
   with a preform assembly 1 according to the description the preform
   assemblies are blow moulded in line with a filling and closure apparatus,
   reducing transport and storage volumes considerably. In an embodiment the
   valve 35 can be a spray can type valve, for example a male or female type of
25 spray can type valve. Such valves are well known in the art. Examples of
   such valves are described for beverage containers in NL1012802, 1012921
   and NL1012922, herein incorporated by reference. Alternatively the valve
   and in general the upper end of the container, including a closure or
   mounting ring can be as described in non-pre-published application
30 NL2009731 or NL2009732. In embodiments a pressure regulating device,

                                          24
   for example as described in the above referenced and incorporated patents,
   can be provided inside the container, especially within the beverage or
   between an inner and outer wall part of the container, for maintaining an
   internal pressure in the container. When using the container for a
 5 carbonated beverage the internal pressure is then preferably maintained at
   an equilibrium pressure for CO 2 in the beverage. In another embodiment a
   spray can type valve can be used suitable for both introducing a gas into the
   container and dispensing a beverage from the container. Such valve is for
   example known from WO 2008/048098.
10            When for example a compressor or pump is provided for
   pressurising the container 20, for example by pressing a fluid into the inner
   volume V of the container or more preferably into the space 31 between the
   walls 2A, 3A of the container 20, it may be preferred that the same
   compressor or pump can be used to pump, especially, such the fluid from the
15 container 20, preferably such that the container collapses at least to some
   extend, especially such that the overall volume of the container is reduced
   significantly. This can for example be achieved by a compressor or pump
   which is reversible.
              When one or more openings 30 are provided in the neck portion 7,
20 9 as discussed here above, for example on an inner or outer side thereof, a
   pressure fluid supply opening 36 can be provided in the lid, in fluid
   communication with at least one of the opening(s) 30. In the embodiment as
   shown schematically in fig. 8 a circumferential groove 38 is provided in the
   lid, open to the inner surface of the neck portion 7, to which groove 38 the
25 supply opening opens. The groove 38 is sealed against the inner side 37 of
   the neck portion 7, 9 such that a pressure fluid cannot flow from the groove
   38 into the internal volume V of the container 20. Pressure fluid such as
   gas, for example air or (cooled) water, supplied through the opening 37 thus
   flows through the groove 38 into at least one of the openings 30 and into the
30 space 31 or at least between the neck portions 7, 9 of the preforms 2, 3.

                                          25
   From there the pressure fluid can then flow between the layers of the wall of
   the body of the container, pressing the inner layer 2A away from the outer
   layer 3A in the body 5A of the container 20. This will pressurise the inner
   layer and thus the beverage contained therein, forcing the beverage through
 5 the dispense opening 34 in the lid 33.
              It has been recognised that a substantially spherical bottom
   forming portion of the inner and outer containers may require less pressure
   for releasing the inner container or layer from the outer than a pettaloid
   shaped bottom forming portion of the container.
10            In a further embodiment, not shown, a tapping rod or tap spear
   can be inserted into the opening. Such tap spear or tapping rod is well
   known in the art, for example from beer barrels. One type is a tap spear
   having a Sankey two or three lug valve assembly which can be mounted in
   or on the neck 4 of the container 20. Another well known type of tap spear
15 has a flat head valve assembly, which can be mounted in and/or on the neck
   of the container. Such tapping rod or tap spear has a gas supply valve and a
   beverage dispensing valve, which can be operated by a tapping head. In an
   embodiment the gas valve can open into the inner volume V of the
   container, especially within the inner layer 2A, for pressurising directly the
20 beverage therein. In another embodiment the gas valve can open into one or
   more opening 30, for pressurising the inner layer 2A from the space 31
   between the inner and outer layer 2A, 3A. Thus the beverage can be
   pressurised indirectly, without the pressure gas coming into contact with
   the beverage. In stead of a pressure gas a pressure fluid such as water can
25 be used in that case. In an embodiment as a pressure gas air is used, fed
   into said space 31. In such embodiment preferably an 02 scavenger is
   provided in the plastic material of the inner layer 2A and/or in the space 31,
   for preventing or at least reducing the risk of oxidation of the beverage by
   02 migrating through the inner layer 2A. In an alternative embodiment in
30 stead of or next to a scavenger a plastic material can be used for the inner

                                            26
   layer having a high 02 barrier and/or a protective film or layer of such
   material can be provided on the surface of the first preform 2 and/or in the
   space 31.
               Fig. 9 shows, in exploded view, a preform set 1, comprising the
 5 first or inner preform 2 and the second or outer preform 3, and a lid or
   closure ring 33, also referred to as mounting ring 33, which can be mounted
   on the free edges 23 and 25 of the inner and outer preforms 2, 3 or the inner
   and outer container 2A, 3A, for example by welding, such as but not limited
   to spin welding or ultrasonic welding, closing off the space 32 between the
10 inner and outer preform 2, 3 and the inner and outer container 2A, 3A. Fig.
   10A and B show in top view and cross sectional view respectively an upper
   part of a container 20 formed from such preform set 1. Such set and a
   container formed there from, as well as connecting devices and tapping
   assemblies suitable to be used therewith are more extensively discussed in
15 the co-pending applications NL2009234, NL2009237, NL2009235,
   NL2009236, NL2009732 and NL2009731 which are at least for these
   aspects considered to have been incorporated herein by reference.
               As can be seen in fig. 9 in the shoulder forming portion 50A and in
   the neck portion 7 of the inner container 2 spacer elements 32 are provided,
20 which in this embodiment comprise at least one and preferably a a plurality
   of channels 32A extending in the outward facing surface of the preform 2,
   from at or near the free edge 23 to at least near or passed a lower edge of
   the shoulder forming portion 50A. The second preform 3 comprises the
   shoulder or edge 27 on which the edge or flange 22 of the neck forming
25 portion 7 of the inner preform 2 can rest. Spacer elements 32 are provided in
   said edge 27 by for example cut outs 32. The spacer elements 32A, B provide
   for channels or the like spaces through which in a container formed from the
   set 1 a pressure fluid, such as gas, for example air can be fed from the at
   least one opening 30, which in this embodiment is provided in neck region 9
30 the outer preform 3, into the space 31 between the containers 2A, 3A,

                                            27
   especially between the body portions 5A and 5B thereof, passing through
   the shoulder forming portion 5. When blow moulding the container 20 from
   the preform set 1 the channel or channels 32A may become slightly
   flattened and thus shallower, though wider, but will still remain sufficiently
 5 open to allow pressurised fluid to pass. Alternatively and/or additionally
   such channels could be provided at an inner surface part of the outer
   container.
              As can be seen in fig. 9 and 10A coupling elements 51 can be
   provided, for example in the neck region 4 of the container 20, for coupling a
10 connecting device to the container, as for example shown in fig. 11A and B.
   In this embodiment the coupling elements are provided for as notches
   extending outward from the neck portion 9 of the outer container 3A and of
   the outer preform 3, in this embodiment on either side of the or each
   opening 30, relatively close to said opening 30. In the embodiment shown
15 especially in fig. 10B, the ring or lid 33 has a skirt 52 extending into a
   groove 53 in the upper edge 23 of the inner preform 2 and container 2A,
   whereas a wall 54 of a ring shaped recess 55 of the ring or lid 33 extends
   alongside an inner surface of the upper edge 23. Thus a labyrinth is formed
   at the upper ends 23, 25 and the ring or lid 33, preventing debris from
20 entering into the space 31, especially during welding, such as spin welding.
   Within the recess 55 teeth 56 or the like engagement means can be provided
   for engaging a tool for holding the ring or lid 33, for example during spin
   welding. Opposite the wall 54 a further wall 57 of the recess 55 is provided,
   which can be substantially cylindrical and defines an opening 34A which is
25 at the upper end closed by the clinch plate 42A clinched to the upper edge
   57A of said wall 57. The opening 34A preferably has a cross section
   perpendicular to the axis L which is sufficiently large and appropriately
   formed to allow at least one of and preferably both of a blow moulding tool,
   especially a stretch rod through to be inserted into the volume V1, and at
30 the same time allow pressure relief by allowing gas to pass along said tool

                                             28
   into the volume of the bottle being formed and/or vice versa, and to allow a
   filling tube of a filling station to be entered into the volume V of the
   container 20 after blow moulding, for filling the container 20. The ring or lid
   33 can then be mounted to the preforms and/or containers, before filling of
 5 the container or even before blow moulding the container 20. Preferred cross
   sections of the opening 34A have been discussed earlier in this disclosure,
   for the same or similar purposes. In the embodiment shown in fig. 10A and
   B a valve 35 is mounted by the clinch plate 42A, which valve is provided
   with a riser pipe 35A extending into the inner volume V of the container, for
10 example o a position close to a bottom 5A of the inner container. In
   alternative embodiments a valve can be used without such riser pipe,
   especially if the container 20 or at least the inner container 2A is
   compressible for dispensing the content, especially a carbonated beverage
   such as beer.
15             In the embodiment shown in fig. 10B the opening or openings 30
   is or are, or at least can be positioned at a level above the upper edge 23 of
   the inner container 2A, such that when viewing through the at least one
   opening 30 part of the ring or lid 33 will be seen. To this end the upper edge
   23 of the inner container 2A lies a distance N below the upper edge 25 of the
20 outer container 3A. Obviously other configurations are possible as well. In
   the embodiment shown the valve 35 is a female type valve, meaning that
   the valve body 35B thereof will have to be engaged through a dispense
   opening 35C thereof, which lies below the top side of the ring or lid 33 and is
   thus well protected. Other types of valves 35 are also possible, such as but
25 not limited to male type valves, having a extension of or on the valve body
   extending through the opening 35C for engagement, wherein both can be a
   tilting type valve.
               Fig. 11A shows schematically an upper end of a container 20,
   showing part of a shoulder or shoulder forming portion 50 and a neck 4 with
30 two of the connecting elements 51. Above the container 20 a connecting

                                           29
   device 60 is shown, having a central opening 61, schematically shown by
   dotted lines, with which the connecting device can be placed over the neck 4.
   Within the opening 61 counter connecting elements (not shown) are
   provided for cooperating with the connecting elements 51 for securely
 5 mounting the connecting device 60 onto the neck 4. A gas supply line 62 is
   connected to the connecting device 60, for supplying gas under pressure,
   such as but not limited to air, to at least one of the openings 30 in the
   container 20 and thus into the space 31 for pressurising the inner container
   2A.
10            Above the connecting device 60 a connector 63 is shown, also
   referred to as a dispense adapter or valve adapter, connected to or forming
   part of a tapping line 64, preferably an at least partly flexible tapping line
   64. The tapping line 64 can be connected to or be part of a tapping device 65,
   comprising at least a tap 66. As a tap any fixed or mobile tap can be used,
15 depending on for example the tapping line used. In embodiments the
   tapping line can be a replaceable tapping line, especially a disposable
   tapping line, as for example used in Heineken's David@ system, as for
   example disclosed in EP1289874 or US2004226967, in which case a tap can
   be used to which the tapping line can be releasably coupled, for example by
20 an in-line valve or by forming a valve assembly of the hose valve type, or by
   a quick coupling type coupling. In other embodiments the tapping line used
   can be a fixed tapping line of a beverage dispense system. Both types of
   systems are well known in the art and shall not be further discussed.
              With the connecting device 60 connected to the container 20 and
25 the connector 63 mounted onto the container 20, for example onto an outer
   edge of the clinch plate 42A, the valve 35 is opened by the hollow extension
   67 of the connector 63, thus providing for a fluid connection between the
   inner volume V and the tap 66. Gas can be supplied under pressure through
   the opening or openings 30, pressurizing the beverage to be dispensed.

                                           30
              Fig. 11B shows an alternative embodiment, in which the
   connector 63 is replaced by a connector 63A which can be connected to the
   connecting device 60, for example by a bayonet coupling including coupling
   elements 63B on the connector 63A and counter connecting elements (not
 5 shown) in the opening 61.
               Such tapping systems and connectors 60 to be used there with are
   for example more extensively discussed non-pre-published applications
   NL2009234, NL2009237 and NL2009235, as referenced before. Tapping line
   has to be understood in the broadest sense and can be for example a flexible
10 or rigid tapping line, a hose, pipe, part of a Python type tapping line and the
   like, and can be provided with or connected to cooling means, such as an in
   line cooler or feed through cooler or can be cooled differently, such as in a
   Python type tapping line.
              It will be clear that a source for pressurized fluid, such as gas or
15 liquid, can be connected to the at least one opening 30 and/or to the space 31
   in a different manner, for example directly.
              A preform assembly 1 of any one of the embodiments shown can
   be shaped and dimensioned for blow moulding a plastic container 20, as
   schematically shown in fig. 4 or 5, such as for example a BIC or BIB type
20 container, having an internal volume V of more than three litres, especially
   more than 5 litres, for example an internal volume between 8 and 40 litres.
   Examples can be containers 20 having substantially a bottle or barrel shape
   with an internal volume of about 10, 20 or 30 litres, such as for example
   about 17 to 20 litres. A preform assembly preferably has a neck area having
25 an internal opening 21 with a cross sectional dimension D of about 25 mm
   or more, preferably about 49 mm or more, if it is substantially circular, or an
   equivalent cross sectional area of about 490 mm 2 or more, preferably about
    1180 mm 2 or more. In an embodiment the cross sectional dimension D can
   be about 49.2 mm. A cross sectional dimension D has to be understood as
30 measured perpendicular to a longitudinal axis L of the preform, measured

                                           31
   near a free edge 22, 25 of the relevant neck portion 7 or 9, or the neck 4. In a
   preferred embodiment the opening 21 can have a substantially circular cross
   section perpendicular to said longitudinal axis, which can have said cross
   sectional dimension, defined by the diameter. The cross sectional dimension
 5 can decrease slightly in the direction of the body forming portion 4. The wall
   of the first preform 2 can for example have a cylindrical inner surface with a
   diameter Dw at the side of the body 5 of some millimetres less than the said
   cross sectional dimension D. The diameter Dw can for example be between 0
   and 5 % less. In an embodiment the cross sectional dimension of the opening
10 21 can be about 49 mm and the diameter Dw at the body forming portion of
   the first preform 2 can be about 48 mm. Obviously other sizes, shapes and
   dimensions are possible. A relatively large cross section of the neck can have
   the advantage of a preferable stretch ratio of the body for relatively large
   volume containers, such as having an inner volume V of about 10 litres or
15 more. A relatively large neck also can provide space for a standard tapping
   rod or at least for a tapping rod or valve assembly allowing connection of a
   standard tapping head such as for a Sankey two or three lug or flat head
   tapping head.
               By way of example, for a container 20 having an internal volume
20 V the first and second preforms 2, 3 and containers blow moulded there
   from can have dimensions as shown in the table 1 below, for crystallizing
   plastic, such as especially PET, more especially standard PET.

                                          32
      volume                 10L                   20L                  30L
     finish
   diameter D                 54                    54                   54
   [mm]
      midwall
   diameter                 56.1                   56.1                 63.4
   preform [mm]
      bottle
   diameter                234.5                  234.2                 269
   [mm]
      preform                113                   208                  239
   length [mm]
      bottle               282.5                  520.8                593.2
   height [mm]
                       range       target     range     target     range     target
   stretcharatio  ) 9.00    12.00 10.45    9.00   12.00 10.45   9.00 12.00 10.53
                    2.20    2.80    2.50   2.20   2.80    2.50  2.20   2.80   2.48
   stretch ratio 2)
      hoop r        3.21    5.45    4.18   3.21   5.45    4.17  3.21   5.45   4.24
   stretch ratio
                                                                     Table 1
 5 Wherein:
             axial stretch ratio = bottle height LB/ preform length LP
             hoop stretch ratio = bottle diameter DB / midwall diameter De
             planar stretch ratio = axial stretch ratio * hoop stretch ratio
10           Volume = container inner volume V
             Finish diameter = inner diameter D of the neck portion
             Mid wall diameter = diameter of the body of the preform assembly
             measured over the middle of the thickness of the relevant wall.
             Preform length = length Lp of the preform which is substantially
15           stretch blow moulded, preferably measured from directly below a
             flange closest to the body to an apex of the bottom forming portion
             of the preform assembly.

                                           33
              Bottle diameter = average diameter of the body between a
              shoulder and a bottom
              Bottle height = length Lb of the container which is substantially
              stretch blow moulded, preferably measured from directly below a
 5            flange closest to the body to an apex of the bottom.
              All as for example shown in fig. 6.
              A planar stretch ratio is also known as Blow Up Ratio or BUR.
10 The axial stretch ratio preferably is at least greater than 1.7, more
   preferably greater than about 2.2, such as for example between 2.3 and 3.2.
   The axial stretch length of the preform or preform assembly and height of
   the container can be defined as the maximum axial distance between the
   inside of the bottom forming portion and the part of the neck where
15 stretching is initiated.
              In table 1 a range for a planar stretch ratio is given, which is
   preferred, for each of the preform/container combinations disclosed. The
   minimum ratio is preferred for mechanical stability and resistance to
   migration of CO 2 and/or 02 in containers for holding carbonated beverages.
20 The maximum preferred planar ratio is defined by the PET material itself.
   A preferred ratio is given as target.
              In table 1 a range for an axial stretch ratio is given, which is
   preferred, for each of the preform/container combinations disclosed. The
   minimum ratio is preferred for even wall distribution, specifically an even
25 wall thickness for the wall of the body of the container, especially between
   the shoulder and the bottom. The maximum preferred axial stretch ratio is
   defined experience obtained in the prior art. A preferred ratio is given as
   target.
              In table 1A here below for the outer preform and inner preform
30 separately axial, hoop and planar stretch ratios are given, for preform sets

                                                34
   such as for example shown in fig. 1, 2 and 3, especially fig. 1 or 2. As can be
   seen from this table the stretch rations for the outer preforms are generally
   slightly higher than the target as defined in table 1, whereas the stretch
   rations for the inner preforms are generally slightly lower than said target
 5 ratios.
                                        10L              20L             ML
                                  outer     inner  outer     inner outer    inner
                axial              2.3        2.4   2.6        2.7  2.5       2.6
                hoop               3.7        4.5   3.6       4.4   3.7       4.6
                planar             8.5       11.0   9.1       11.9  9.2      11.9
                                                                        Table 1A
10            It is clear that in preform-in-preform or layered preform sets
   there will be differences in the given ratios. Different considerations will or
   can apply in the choices of for example materials used for the preforms,
   especially inner and outer preform, and for distribution of material over said
   inner and outer preform or layers. Such considerations can for example
15 include:
   -          The outer preform should, during blow moulding, preferably not
              be under-stretched, meaning that the outer preform should be
              sufficiently stretched, preferably in all directions, in order to
              ensure stretching in the entire wall to a sufficient degree in order
20            to obtain the desired orientation of the molecules. To this end the
              inner preform has to be designed in accordance therewith, which
              may mean that it has to be designed such that substantially
              maximum stretch ratios for the inner preform are obtained during
              blow moulding;
25 -          The inner preform is preferably designed with a relatively small
              wall thickness, compared to the wall thickness of the outer
              preform, in order to have minimum impact on the stretch ratios of
              the outer preform;

                                 35
   - The inner preform is preferably designed with a relatively small
     wall thickness such that the inner container has a very small wall
     thickness in order to improve delamination and folding during
     pressurising thereof for dispensing content thereof, such as
 5   beverage;
   - The inner preform preferably has a relatively small wall thickness
     because of the material used and, especially additives added to
     the inner preform material, such as for example colorant,
     scavengers, particles, especially silver coloured particles as
10   discussed for inter alia obtaining a roughened surface or surface
     part, and because for the inner preform virgin material or higher
     quality plastic may be used, making it costly per weight unit
     material, possibly more costly than the material of the outer
     preform;
15 - The inner preform may be designed having a wall thickness as
     small as possible for proper injection moulding, which minimum
     wall thickness may be defined at least in relation to the maximum
     flow paths during injection moulding;
   - The outer preform may be designed having a relatively large wall
20   thickness, compared to the wall thickness of the inner preform or
     other layers, such that for example thermal stability and safety of
     the container are obtained;
   - The outer preform may be designed having a relatively large wall
     thickness, wherein the outer preform may be made from plastic
25   material being highly recyclable, for example because of no or only
     small amounts of additives, and the plastic material used itself
     can at least partly be recycled material, which may reduce cost;
   - The outer preform may have a wall thickness as large as possible
     in view of injection moulding of the preform without thermal
30   crystallisation.

                                           36
               Clearly for preform assemblies according to the present disclosure
   different embodiments are possible, depending on for example choices made
   based on the above given considerations, which may lead to compromises
 5 with respect to for example stretch ratios, wall thicknesses, preform designs,
   choices of materials and additives and the like. Such choices can for example
   be made depending on the content which will be stored inside the container,
   the pressure of the content and the desired or allowable pressure used for
   compressing for example the container or the inner container, safety
10 requirements and the like, which will be readily known to the person skilled
   in the art.
               It has been recognised in this description that the cooling of
   preform is a factor in preventing crystallisation of the plastics material,
   meaning that if so desired the cooling can be regulated such that the
15 preform or preforms are kept substantially amorph. Cooling time is defined
   by:
               1.       wall thickness, especially maximum wall thickness of the
               preform
               2.       Injection temperature of the plastics material
20             3.       Mould wall temperature, especially average mould wall
               temperature at injection
               4.       Ejection temperature plastic material
               5.       Heat conductive coefficient plastic material.
25             For containers for carbonated beverages such as beer and soft
   drinks, having a relatively large volume, such as above 10 litters, the hoop
   ratio appears to be important and is preferably above 10.
               The cooling time is dependant on inter alia the wall thickness,
   especially the maximum wall thickness squared (wall thickness to the power
30 of two).

                                            37
               It has been recognised that the cooling time can be kept short
   enough to prevent orientation of the molecules in the wall of the preform or
   preforms. With preforms having a wall thickness of more than 8 mm, more
   specifically more than 6 mm the heat transfer from the plastic to the mould
 5 is insufficient to prevent such orientation in standard plastics, especially in
   standard PET. Even lowering the mould temperature has proven to be
   insufficient with thicker walls in preforms. Crystalline plastics, especially
   PET occurs in three states:
               -         Amorphous, non-orientated and translucent, clear if not
10             coloured;
               -         Thermally crystallized, that is by means of relative slow
               cooling down of the melted material; and
               -         Strain-induced crystallized, such as in stretch blow
               moulding.
15 In the present description the preforms are preferably injection moulded
   from crystallizing plastic, especially PET such as standard PET, preferably
   with such wall thickness that the second state is prevented.
               In fig. 2 an embodiment of a preform assembly 1 is shown, in
   which a space 31 is provided between the first and second preform 2, 3,
20 extending between at least part of the body forming portions 8, 10 of the
   preforms 2, 3. Spacers 32 can extend in said space keeping the inner and
   outer preforms at least partly spaced apart. In this embodiment the space
   31 is closed off to the environment at the neck 4, especially at the free edge
   23 of the first preform. In an embodiment a medium such as a fluid or gas,
25 for example an inert gas such as N 2 or a gas as CO 2 or air is inserted in the
   space 31. When blow moulding a container 20 from the assembly 1 the
   medium in the space 31 may be pressurised, thereby strengthening the
   container 20. This can have the advantage that a reduced wall thickness can
   be used for at least one of the layers 2A, 3A, without compromising the
30 strength of the container. In an embodiment an opening 40 can be provided,

                                           38
   for example in the neck 4, opening into the space 31, which opening can be
   closed off by a valve or seal 41. This opening 40 can be opened, for example
   by opening the valve or piercing the seal 41. The opening can be or can be
   brought into communication with the environment, such that when opening
 5 the opening pressure in the space can be brought back to atmospheric
   pressure or at least can be reduced. In an embodiment the space 31 can be
   brought to under pressure. By reducing the pressure the container 20 or at
   least the body 5 thereof can be reduced in stiffness, allowing more easy
   compression, for example in a pressure space of a dispensing device as
10 described here above, for dispensing the content of the container 20, or after
   it has been emptied to a desired degree, in order to reduce the volume of the
   empty container which has to be discarded or returned for recycling. This
   can have important benefits for the environment.
              Fig. 3 schematically shows a preform assembly 1 in a further
15 embodiment, in which a preform assembly of at least a first and second
   preform 2, 3 is inserted into a third preform 43 or a third preform is inserted
   into the first preform, preferably with a wall thickness W7 smaller than the
   wall thicknesses W1, W2 of the first and second preforms 2, 3. When blow
   moulding this preform assembly 1 into a container 20, it will have three
20 layers 2A, 3A, 43A, as is shown in fig. 5. The inner layer preferably is highly
   flexible compared to at least one of the other layers 2, 3 or the other layers
   2, 3 combined. The layer 43A can enclose the beverage and can easily
   deform when pressurising the beverage. In an embodiment an assembly 1
   having a neck 4 as shown in fig. 1A or 8 can be used, wherein opening 30
25 can be provided as discussed earlier, in the neck area of the inner most
   preform 43 or outer preform or between the neck regions, opening into the
   space 31 between the inner most layer 43A and the first layer 2A, which will
   lie against the inside of the second layer 3A in a manner as described here
   before. In this embodiment a pressure fluid can be brought into a space 31
30 between the inner most, third layer 43A and the first layer 2A, wherein the

                                          39
   first and second layers 2A, 3A can in an embodiment form a relatively rigid,
   pressure resistant outer container. By feeding pressurised fluid, such as gas,
   for example air or an inert gas into the space 31 the inner most layer 43A of
   a container 20 as shown in fig. 5, blown from such preform assembly 1, will
 5 deform, pressurising the beverage therein. This means that beverage can be
   dispensed through the dispense opening 34 and/or valve 35 under pressure.
   In an alternative embodiment the inner most layer 43A can in fact be
   formed solely or additionally by the first container 2A, the space 31 being
   provided, as discussed before, between the inner and outer preforms 2, 3
10 and containers 2A, 3A respectively.
              The space 31 can be replaced or augmented by a coating or layer
   provided on the interface between the first and second preform, over for
   example the body forming portions thereof or part thereof. The coating or
   layer can for example be a layer having barrier properties, for example
15 preventing migration of gas into or out of the inner volume V. The coating or
   layer can for example prevent coupling of the first and second preform or
   wall part of the container, or can promote such coupling. The layer or
   coating can provide colouring, can prevent or enhance heat transport
   through the interface between the preforms, can be a layer preventing
20 explosion of the container, such as for example but not limited to netting,
   layering or such means.
          In embodiments of preforms and containers such protective layer can
   for example be but is not limited to a layer comprising or consisting of an
   impact resistance enhancing material, such as but not limited to
25 polyvinylbutyral. In an embodiment the layer can be formed between the
   preforms 2, 3 and/or layers 2A, 3A of the container by applying the material
   in a dissolved state, for example in but not limited to ethanol, such that
   after forming the preform assembly 1 and/or the container 2 is will set by
   disappearance of or reaction with the solvent and/or the plastics materials of
30 one or both of the adjacent preforms 2, 3 or layers 2A, 3A of the container

                                         40
   20. In another embodiment the layer can be provided on one or both of the
   preforms, preferably on at least one of adjacent surfaces, for example by co
   injection or co-extrusion, and can then be stretch blow molded with the
   preform assembly 1. The layer can also be provided on an outer side of the
 5 outer preform and/or on an outer side of the container 20. Cross linkers can
   be added to the material of the layer, such as the polyvinylbutyral, for
   enhancing mechanical properties thereof.
              A preform assembly 1 for blow moulding a container 20 can
   comprise injection moulding a first preform 2 and a second preform 3,
10 preferably both with a wall thickness of less than about 8 mm, more
   preferably less then about 6 mm. The first preform 2 can be inserted into
   the second preform 3 and/or the second preform 3 can be provided over the
   first preform 2. In an embodiment the first 2 and second preform 3 can be
   injection moulded in an injection moulding apparatus, wherein the first
15 preform 2 is inserted into the second preform 3 within said injection
   moulded apparatus. In another embodiment the first 2 and second preform
   3 can be injection moulded in an injection apparatus, wherein the second
   preform 3 can be provided over the first preform 2 within said injection
   moulded apparatus. In still another embodiment the first preform 2 can be
20 injection moulded within the second preform 3. In a further alternative
   embodiment the second preform 3 can be injection moulded over the first
   preform 4. In another alternative embodiment the preforms 2, 3 can be
   injection moulded, where after the preforms are assembled outside the or
   each injection moulding apparatus. In such embodiment the preforms 2, 3
25 can be shipped separately to an assembling system, for example near or in
   line with a blow moulding apparatus and/or a bottling apparatus or line,
   wherein the preforms can be assembled directly before bottling beverage. In
   such embodiment one or both of the preforms can be heated separately and
   assembled in heated condition.

                                           41
              When blow moulding a container from a preform set, especially
   according to for example fig. 2 or 3, a or the space 31 between the inner and
   outer container can be used for pressurising the inner container.
              Using different preforms assembled into one assembly prior to
 5 blow moulding, especially stretch blow moulding integrally, the safety can
   be improved, especially for carbonated beverages, since one of the preforms
   can be blown into a container part able to resist high pressure, whereas the
   other can be designed for optimal beverage containing. In another
   embodiment safety means can be included between the preforms, such as a
10 safety layer, for example glued to one or both of the preforms and/or walls of
   the body of the container.
              Preforms for containers of the Bottle-in-Bottle (BIB) or Bottle-in
   Container (BIC) type containers are commonly injection moulded and then
   assembled, wherein the preforms preferably have smooth inner and outer
15 surfaces, such that they can easily be released from the moulds, especially
   from a moulding core, with as little draft as possible, whereas the smooth
   surfaces facing each other when assembling allow easy assembling.
   Moreover a smooth surface is preferable for reason of sustainability of the
   moulds. When blow moulding a container from such preform moreover the
20 surfaces are stretched and, for the outer preform, pushed against a smooth
   inner surface of the blow mould or, for the inner preform, against the
   smooth inner surface of the outer preform, further smoothening the
   surfaces. Thus in the prior art the facing surfaces of the inner and outer
   containers are smooth, that is having a surface roughness of below 0.1 Ra,
25 for example between 0.05 and 0.1 Ra. Such surface smoothness is especially
   used in preforms and containers made of PET or a PET blend or similar
   plastics.
              It has been recognised that in prior art containers of the BIB or
   BIC type containers, having at least an inner container and an outer
30 container, wherein the inner container has to be released or pushed away

                                           42
   from the outer container or vice versa, it often requires undesirably high
   pressure of a pressure fluidum, especially gas to be inserted into a space or
   interface between the inner and outer container in order to push the
   containers or layers sufficiently apart. This may be the result of the inner
 5 and outer containers and/or layers sticking to each other, due to for example
   heating of the preforms during blow moulding, chemical bonding, chemical
   and/or mechanical adherence or the like.
              In the present disclosure it has been recognised that by providing
   at least one of the inner and outer container or layer of a BIC or BIB type
10 container facing a surface of the other of the inner and outer container or
   layer at least partly with a relatively rough surface, surprisingly release of
   the said surfaces or at least facing surface areas is possible with
   significantly less pressure of a gas inserted in between said surfaces or
   surface areas. The surface roughness of the said area or region is preferably
15 above 0.1 Ra, more specifically surface roughness is at least 0.25 Ra,
   preferably between 0.25 and 2, more preferably between 0.25 and 1. The
   said surface roughness is for example 0.30 Ra or more. Alternatively or
   additionally there is provided a difference in surface roughness of two facing
   surface areas of adjacent containers 2A, 3A, which difference is preferably
20 above 0.1 Ra, more specifically the difference is at least 0.25 Ra, preferably
   between 0.25 and 2, more preferably between 0.25 and 1. The said difference
   is surface roughness is for example 0.30 Ra or more. The surface roughness
   can be measured on the container after blow moulding the container from a
   set 1 of preforms 2, 3, in any suitable and known manner, especially in
25 accordance with IS04287 or similar norms, especially after integral blow
   moulding, for example but not limited to by at least partly separating the
   inner and outer container and/or by measurement through the outer
   container.
              In embodiments the inner container and/or outer container can
30 have said surface roughness on at least part of a surface, wherein the wall

                                          43
   or layer forming said surface comprises particles enclosed in the wall, in or
   between the plastic forming chains of the plastic wall of the container, such
   as monomers and/or polymers. The particles can be made of or at least
   contain material different from the plastic of the wall of said container,
 5 especially metal or metalized particles. The particles can be or can contain
   flakes, especially metal flakes, more particularly aluminum flakes. The
   particles can form between 0.5 and 5%, in particular between 0.5% and
   2.5%, more particular between 0.5% and 2% percent, by weight, of the total
   weight of the relevant preform or container cq layer 2, 3, 2A, 3A.
10            It has surprisingly be found that by adding such particles to the
   plastic material, such as for example to a PET or PET blend, from which the
   relevant preform or preforms is or are formed, after blow moulding of a
   container from such preform a surface region of such container at the area
   of the wall formed by the material containing such particles will have a
15 relatively rough surface, compared to a container blow moulded from a
   similar preform made of the same material not containing such particles.
   The surface roughness has been shown to be raised by at least about 0.1 Ra
   compared to such similar container not having the particles, and may even
   be raised about 0.3 to 0.35 Ra or more. Even though the largest dimension of
20 the particles may be substantially smaller than the wall thickness W5 or
   W6 of the container 2A, 3A formed. The particles may have dimensions in
   the order of pm, whereas the wall thickness of the containers formed,
   especially the inner container, will be in the order of tenths of millimeters or
   more.
25            In embodiments the particles can, at least when they are mixed
   into the plastic mass from which a preform is to be formed, be provided with
   or contained in a layer of a material having a lower melting point that of the
   particles and/or the plastic. Such layer can for be a wax or wax type
   material, preferably a wax type material which is not precipitated from the
30 preform or container during and/or after blow moulding a container from

                                          44
   said set of preforms. The layer can be largely or entirely be non-polymeric or
   non polymer based. The said material can have affinity with the plastic
   material, especially the monomers and/or polymers of the plastic, for
   example through polarity, chemical binding or the like. Alternatively the
 5 said material can be such that it does not have an affinity with the
   polymers. The particles can, including or excluding said material can be
   substantially evenly dispersed throughout the plastic material or can be
   unevenly dispersed, for example such that there are more particles near one
   or both surfaces of the wall.
10            Additionally or alternatively at least one of the preforms has been
   roughened at least in part, after injection moulding thereof, and/or wherein
   at least one of the preforms has been injection moulded in a mould having
   an at least partly roughened mold surface. Such method is especially useful
   when only part of an outer surface of an inner preform or part of an inner
15 surface of an outer preform should have such roughened surface. For
   example only a shoulder forming portion of such preform or container.
              In embodiments at least one of the preforms can have at least one
   surface area, which can be part or all of an inner and/or outer surface of the
   preform, with surface roughness of above 2 Ra, more preferably above 4 Ra,
20 even more preferably above 6 Ra, such as for example between about 6 and
   10 Ra or more. The surface roughness of said surface area of the preform or
   at least of a mould surface for forming said area can for example be about
   9.4 Ra.
              In embodiments the container is preferably such that the inner
25 container can be compressed by said pressurizing medium at a pressure
   below 2 Bar absolute.
              In embodiments an outer surface part of the neck region and/or
   shoulder forming region of the inner container and/or an inner surface part
   of the neck region and/or shoulder forming portion of the outer container
30 has a surface roughness of at least 0.1 Ra. The further surface parts of the

                                            45
   outer surface of the inner container and/or the inner surface of the outer
   container of at least body forming portions thereof can for example either
   have the same surface roughness or a lower surface roughness.
              In embodiments the outer container is transparent, and the inner
 5 container is opaque or non-transparent, having preferably a light reflecting
   outer appearance, such as silver colored, which may be combined with
   different colours, such as but not limited to brown, yellow, amber, green, red
   or black.
              In embodiments a Preform set for integrally blow moulding a
10 container, especially according to any one of the previous claims, comprising
   at least an outer preform and an inner preform, fitting at least partly inside
   the outer preform, both having a neck forming portion, a shoulder forming
   portion and a body forming portion, wherein at least a first of the inner and
   outer preform has a surface region in contact with the other of the inner and
15 outer preform, wherein:
              -        at least part of said region has a surface roughness of at
   least 0.1 Ra and/or a surface roughness which is at least 0.1 Ra higher than
   the surface roughness of the surface area of the other of the inner and outer
   preform with which it is in contact and/or
20            -        at least part of said region has a surface roughness such
   that in a container integrally blow moulded from said assembly of preforms
   the surface area of the container formed from said surface region has a
   surface roughness of at least 0.1 Ra and/or a surface roughness of at least
   0.1 Ra higher than the surface roughness of an adjacent surface area of the
25 adjacent container.
              Preferably the first preform is the inner preform.
              Fig. 12A discloses schematically a container 20, partly in cross
   section, showing an inner container 2A and outer container 3A, the inner
   container 2A extending inside the outer container 3A. Between the inner
30 and outer container 2A, 3A a space 31 is shown, between facing surface

                                             46
   portions 70, 71 of respectively the inner and outer containers 2A, 3A. As can
   be seen the inner container 2A has a shoulder portion 50A with a surface
   portion 70 having a surface roughness higher than that of the surface
   portion 71 adjacent to that of said shoulder portion 50A. The surface area 71
 5 of the neck portion 50B of the outer container 3A opposite the shoulder
   portion 50A of the inner container 2A in this embodiment has a lower
   surface roughness than that of the shoulder forming portion 50A of the
   inner container 2A, for example between 0.05 and 0.1 Ra. It has been shown
   that such increased surface roughness or difference is surface roughness
10 provides for or at least aids to the effect that in such container 20 the
   pressure necessary in the space 31 for pushing the inner container or layer
   2A inward, away from the outer container or layer 3A is lower than that
   necessary in a similar container without such relatively rough surface area.
               Fig. 12B also discloses schematically a container 20, partly in
15 cross section, showing an inner container 2A and outer container 3A, the
   inner container 2A extending inside the outer container 3A. Between the
   inner and outer container 2A, 3A a space 31 is shown, between facing
   surfaces 70, 71 of respectively the inner and outer containers 2A, 3A. As can
   be seen the inner container 2A has outer and inner surfaces 70, 72 with a
20 surface roughness higher than that of the surface 71 of the outer container,
   which can for example be between 0.05 and 0.1 Ra. It has been shown that
   such increased surface roughness or difference is surface roughness provides
   for or at least aids to the effect that in such container 20 the pressure
   necessary in the space 31 for pushing the inner container or layer 2A
25 inward, away from the outer container or layer 3A is lower than that
   necessary in a similar container without such relatively rough surface area.
               As discussed before, the surface roughness of an inner and/or
   outer container 2A, 3A can be increased by adding particles to the plastic
   mass from which the relevant inner or outer container is to be formed.
30 These particles, such as for example flakes, for example metal or metallized

                                           47
   particles such as metal or metallized flakes, are schematically shown in fig.
    13A and B, showing in cross section part of a wall of a container.
              In fig. 13A a cross section of a wall 100 of a container, especially of
   an inner container 2A is shown, in which particles 101 are dispersed
 5 through the plastic forming the wall 100. As can be seen the particles 101
   can be relatively evenly be dispersed through the wall 100, for example
   between monomers and/or polymers of the plastic.
              In fig. 13B a cross section of a container, especially of an inner
   container 2A and outer container 3A is shown, in which particles 101 are
10 dispersed through the plastic forming the wall 100 of the inner container
   2A. As can be seen the particles 101 can be relatively unevenly dispersed
   through the wall 100, for example between monomers and/or polymers of
   the plastic. In this embodiment the particles 101 are largely moved towards
   the surfaces 70, 72 of the wall 100.
15            In the embodiments shown in fig. 13 A and B the particles 101 are
   flakes, having in one direction a dimension d substantially smaller than in
   two directions perpendicular to said one direction. The flakes 101 are thus
   substantially sheet or plate shaped, and may be substantially flat or curved.
   In embodiments the flakes 101 can be metal flakes, especially aluminum
20 flakes providing for a silver colour. The flakes can be orientated
   substantially parallel to the surfaces 70, 72, which can be the result of the
   stretching of the wall during blow moulding. Seen in a direction
   perpendicular to the wall the flakes 101 may partly overlap. The particles
   provide for a colouring of the relevant container, especially the inner
25 container, especially a silver colour, making the inner container 2A opaque
   or non-transparent. Apart from the provision of the desired roughened
   surfaces 70, 72 the fakes 101 also aid in proper heating of the inner and
   outer containers 2A, 3A prior to and during blow moulding, especially
   stretch blow moulding. Alternatively the particles 101 can be differently
30 shaped, for example semi spherical or spherical or otherwise.

                                           48
              Example
              In a comparative example containers were formed according to
 5 table 1, 20 liters version. Four different embodiments were formed, all
   having the same transparent outer preform and container 3, 3A, but
   different inner preforms and containers 2, 2A. The first two inner preforms
   were made using an amber colourant, type Holcobatch Amber nr. 131-10
    15619, 0.4% in weight of the preform, provided by Holland Colours, The
10 Netherlands. The third and fourth inner preforms were made using a silver
   colourant, type Holcobatch Silver, 131-1615, 1.0% in weight of the preform,
   provided by Holland Colours, The Netherlands. As a control sample the
   same container was made without any colorant. Several containers were
   formed for each example in order to obtain average readings.
15            After blow moulding the container 20 the inner container 2A was
   retrieved by removing the outer container 3A, were after surface roughness
   was measured on the outside surface of samples taken from the inner
   container in the center of the body.
              In the first and third examples the inner preforms were injection
20 moulded in a mould known from the prior art, used for forming preforms for
   containers having a surface roughness as low as possible.
              The surface roughness of the first inner container, coloured
   amber, was between 0.05 and 0.1 pm Ra. The surface roughness of the third
   inner container, coloured silver, was between 0.3 and 0.4 pm Ra.
25            In the second and fourth examples the inner preforms were
   injection moulded in a mould similar to that used for the first and third
   preforms, of which however the inner surface for forming the outer surface
   of the preform has been roughened to a surface roughness of about 9.4 pm
   Ra.

                                           49
              The surface roughness of the third inner container, coloured
   amber, was about 0.4 pm Ra. The surface roughness of the fourth inner
   container, coloured silver, was about 0.7 pm Ra.
              Surface roughnesses were all such that Rz and Ry were relatively
 5 low.
   Here below table 2 shows the reference numbers for four inner containers as
   discussed here above.
10            Table 2:
              First inner container (amber, smooth): AK-BO-0147
              Second inner container (amber, textured): AK-BO-0148
              Third inner container (silver, smooth): AK-BO-0149
15            Fourth inner container (silver, textured): AK-BO-0150
              In fig. 14 for the four containers 20 formed with the inner
   containers according to table 2 the starting pressure and spread in starting
   pressure is given, necessary for initiating the release of the inner container
20 from the outer container when pressurizing the container 20, especially the
   space 31 between the inner and outer container through an opening 30 in
   the outer container, to which the upper part of the container 20 was formed
   according to the embodiment shown in fig. 10. Of each container examples
   were tested in which the inner volume V was filled with air and filled with
25 water. In table 3 the mean value is given of the starting pressure, for the
   four types of containers, filled with air and filled with water.

                                                       50
              Table 3
               AK-BO-0147        5     Air               1,38
               AK-BO-0147        5     Water            2,00
               AK-BO-0148        5     Air              0,63
               AK-BO-0148        5     Water            ,17
               AK-BO-0149        5     Air             10,38
               AK-BO-0149        5     Water          '0,31   1
               AK-BO-0150        5     Air              0,25
               AK-BO-0150        5     Water              ,22
               Table 4.1.1: Delanination start pressures
 5            From these experiments it is clear that the first and second type
   container, having the amber coloured inner containers show a larger spread
   of different starting pressures than the third and fourth type of containers.
   Moreover the mean starting pressures thereof are significantly higher than
   the mean starting pressures of the third and fourth type containers. For
10 carbonated or otherwise gaseous contents such as carbonated or otherwise
   gaseous beverages, preferably the containers 2A, 3A, 20 are designed such
   that the pressure necessary is such that within the inner container a
   pressure can be maintained substantially at an equilibrium pressure of the
   gas within the beverage at a desired dispensing temperature. For beer this
15 may be at a level of about 1.2 - 1.6 Bar absolute on average (or about 0.2
   0.6 barg).
              In embodiments of the description the neck portion 8 of the first,
   inner preform 2 can extend into the neck 9 of the second preform 3 only to
   such extend that part of the inner surface of the neck portion 9 of the outer,
20 second preform 3 lies free above the neck portion 8 of the inner preform 2. A
   lid 33 can therein for example be connected to the inner surface of the
   second preform 9 within the neck. If present a space 31 can be accessible
   from within the neck or from outside the neck.
              Particles 101 can be provided in a different manner, for example
25 as elements provided with a coating, for example metallized, and can have

                                          51
   different colours. Preferably the particles provided for a colouring of the
   relevant preform, especially the inner preform, but are preferably not
   colorants which are soluble in the plastic material, such as pigments. The
   particles preferably substantially retain there original mass and/or form
 5 and/or constitution, though a covering layer, if applicable, may partly or
   entirely disappear into the plastic material.
              In alternative embodiments containers 20 according to the
   disclosure can be obtained in which additionally or alternatively part of a
   surface area can be provided with or as a foamed plastic, especially foamed
10 PET or PET blend layer, for example obtained with MuCell @ microcellular
   foam injection technology as developed by PTI. Such surface area can again
   aid in release of contacting surface areas of the containers 2A, 3A, at
   relatively low pressures as previously defined.
              The invention is by no means limited to the embodiments
15 described and shown. Many variations are possible with the scope of the
   invention claimed, including combinations and equivalents of different
   elements of these embodiments, which are also deemed to have been
   disclosed.
              For example, a preform assembly can be provided with more than
20 two preforms, whereas different protective layers can be provided on parts
   of or entire surfaces of one or more of the preforms, for example but not
   limited to barrier layers and/or netting and/or a sleeve for preventing
   bulging of the container. Different volumes can be provided by amendments
   to the preforms, whereas the first preform can be made smaller, for example
25 shorter in length, measured along the longitudinal axis L, such that the
   bottom portion is distanced from that of the second preform, meaning that
   the first preform will be stretched first, before stretching the second preform
   too. In case of a compressible container the pressure for compression can be
   exerted in a different manner, such as but not limited to mechanical or
30 chemical compression means. Other materials can be used, whereas the

                                         52
   preforms can be combined in a different manner, such as but not limited to
   by hand or by robot outside an injection moulding apparatus. An inner liner,
   deformable layer or deformable container can be provided within a two or
   more layered container as a separate element. The particles may be
 5 dispersed differently in the plastic material and can be partly or fully
   associated with the plastic chains. They may be coloured differently, as long
   as they promote roughening of at least part of the surface of the container
   formed from the preform containing these particles.
             These and other, similar amendments can be made to containers,
10 preforms, preform assemblies and/or methods within the scope of the
   present invention.

                                          53
                                       Claims
   1.         Container comprising an inner container and an outer container
   with facing surfaces, wherein at least part of at least one of the facing
   surfaces has a surface roughness higher than about 0.1 Ra and/or wherein
   the difference in roughness of said facing surfaces is at least over a part
 5 more than about 0.1 Ra.
   2.         Container according to claim 1, wherein said at least one surface
   is the outer surface of the inner container.
   3.         Container according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the inner and outer
   container have a neck region, wherein an outer surface part of the neck
10 region of the inner container and/or an inner surface part of the neck region
   of the outer container has a surface roughness of at least 0.1 Ra.
   4.         Container according to any one of the previous claims, wherein
   said surface roughness is at least 0.25 Ra, preferably between 0.25 and 2,
   more preferably between 0.25 and 1.
15 5.         Container according to claim 4, wherein said roughness is at least
   0.30 Ra.
   6.         Container according to any one of the previous claims, wherein
   the inner container and/or outer container having said surface roughness on
   at least part of a surface comprises particles enclosed in the wall, between
20 the plastic forming chains of the plastic wall of the container.
   7.         Container according to claim 6, wherein the particles are made of
   or at least contain material different from the plastic of the wall of said
   container, especially metal.
   8.         Container according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the particles are or
25 contain flakes, especially metal flakes, more particularly aluminum flakes.

                                           54
   9.         Container according to any one of claims 6 - 8, wherein the
   particles form between 0.5 and 5%, in particular between 0.5% and 2.5%,
   more particular between 0.5% and 2% percent, by weight.
   10.        Container according to any one of the previous claims, wherein
 5 the container is integrally blow moulded from a preform-in-preform,
   wherein at least one of the preforms has been roughened at least in part,
   after injection moulding thereof, and/or wherein at least one of the preforms
   has been injection moulded in a mould having an at least partly roughened
   mold surface and/or wherein at least one of the preforms is provided with a
10 foamed surface layer of plastic, especially PET.
   11.        Container according to any one of the previous claims, wherein at
   least one of an preferably both of the inner container and the outer
   container are made of PET or a PET blend, or similar crystalline or semi
   crystalline plastic, wherein the inner container is connected to the outer
15 container at a neck region closing off a space between the inner and the
   outer container, wherein at least one opening is provided into said space for
   introducing a pressurizing medium into said space, wherein the container
   has a body in which the outer container abuts the inner container and
   wherein the inner container can be compressed by said pressurizing
20 medium at a pressure below 2 Bar absolute.
   12.        Container blow moulded from a preform assembly comprising a
   first preform in a second preform, preferably according to any one of claims
   1 - 11, wherein a first layer of the container formed from the first preform
   and a second layer, outside the first layer, formed from the second preform,
25 wherein the plastics material of the first preform has been stretched further
   for forming the first layer than the plastics material of the second preform
   for forming the second layer.
   13.        Container according to any one of claims 1 - 12, wherein the inner
   and outer container have a neck region, wherein an outer surface part of the
30 neck region of the inner container and/or an inner surface part of the neck

                                           55
   region of the outer container has a surface roughness of at least 0.1 Ra and
   wherein the further surface parts of the outer surface of the inner container
   and the inner surface of the outer container of at least body forming portions
   thereof either have the same surface roughness or a lower surface
 5 roughness.
    14.       Container according to any one of the previous claims, wherein
   the outer container is transparent or translucent, which can be coloured,
   and the inner container is opaque or non-transparent, having preferably a
   light reflecting outer appearance, such as silver colored.
10  15.       Preform set for integrally blow moulding a container, especially
   according to any one of the previous claims, comprising at least an outer
   preform and an inner preform, fitting at least partly inside the outer
   preform, both having a neck forming portion, a shoulder forming portion
   and a body forming portion, wherein at least a first of the inner and outer
15 preform has a surface region in contact with the other of the inner and outer
   preform, wherein:
   -           at least part of said region has a surface roughness of at least 0.1
   Ra and/or a surface roughness which is at least 0.1 Ra higher than the
   surface roughness of the surface area of the other of the inner and outer
20 preform with which it is in contact and/or
   -          at least part of said region has a surface roughness such that in a
   container integrally blow moulded from said assembly of preforms the
   surface area of the container formed from said surface region has a surface
   roughness of at least 0.1 Ra and/or a surface roughness of at least 0.1 Ra
25 higher than the surface roughness of an adjacent surface area of the
   adjacent container.
   16.        Preform set according to claim 15, wherein the said first preform
   is the inner preform.
   17.        Preform set according to claim 15 or 16, wherein said first
30 preform is injection moulded from plastic, having a wall, wherein in the wall

                                           56
   particles are dispersed, especially flakes, which are enclosed between
   monomer and/or polymer chains of the plastic.
    18.       Preform set according to claim 17, wherein the particles,
   especially flakes comprise a material different from the plastic, especially
 5 metal or metalized particles.
    19.       Preform set according to claim 17 or 18, wherein the particles are
   light reflecting and/or are coloured particles, especially particles having at
   least partly a silver colour, for example made of aluminum.
   20.        Preform set according to any one of claims 17 - 19, wherein the
10 particles are or comprise flakes.
   21.        Preform set according to any one of claims 17 - 20, wherein the
   particles are contained in a layer of a material having a lower melting point
   that of the particles and/or the plastic, especially a wax or wax type
   material, preferably a wax type material which is not precipitated from the
15 preform or container during and/or after blow moulding a container from
   said set of preforms.
   22         Preform set for blow moulding a container, comprising at least a
   first and a second preform, preferably according to any one of claims 15 - 21,
   wherein the first preform is positioned inside the second preform before
20 blow moulding the preforms into the container, wherein each preform has a
   body forming portion having a wall thickness of less than about 8
   millimetres, preferably less than about 6 mm.
   23.        Preform set according to any one of claims 15 - 22, wherein at
   least one of the preforms has been roughened at least in part, after injection
25 moulding thereof, and/or wherein at least one of the preforms has been
   injection moulded in a mould having an at least partly roughened mold
   surface.
   24.        Preform set according to claim 23, wherein the surface roughness
   of the part of the preform roughened after injection moulding or formed in

                                          57
   said roughened mould is about 0.1 Ra or more, especially above 0.3 Ra, more
   particularly above 0.5 Ra, such as for example between 0.6 and 0.7 Ra.
   25.        Preform assembly according to any one of claims 15 - 24, wherein
   at least the second preform, preferably the first and the second preform, is
 5 made of standard PET, preferably free of anti crystallisation additives.
   26.        Preform assembly according to any one of claims 15 - 25, wherein
   the preform assembly forms a multi layered preform, wherein at least one of
   the preforms or layers comprises said particles, especially flakes.
   27.        Method for forming a preform assembly for blow moulding a
10 container, wherein a first preform is injection moulded and a second
   preform is injection moulded, wherein the first preform is inserted into the
   second preform and/or the second preform is provided over the first preform,
   wherein at least one of the preforms, preferably the first preform is injection
   moulded from a plastic mass containing particles different from the plastic,
15 especially metal and/or metalized particles, such as metal and/or metalized
   flakes.
   28.        Method according to claim 27, wherein the particles are added to
   the plastic mass prior to injection moulding, wherein the particles are at
   least partly enclosed in and/or provided with a covering layer made of a
20 different material, especially a material having a melting temperature lower
   that that of the plastic.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
