                                           ABSTRACT
               Angle multiplexed optical coherence tomography systems and methods can be
used to evaluate ocular tissue and other anatomical structures or features of a patient.

      1002156039
        ANGULAR MULTIPLEXED OPTICAL COHERENCE TOMOGRAPHY
                                     SYSTEMS AND METHODS
                         CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
  5
             The present application is a divisional of parent application 2014237811, the contents of
     which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 10
     [0001]    Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) is used in the ophthalmic industry in
    pachymetry, anterior chamber depth, axial length, and retinal imaging applications. Known OCT
    systems typically use either a time domain or a spectral domain technology to provide line of
    sight length optical analogs of the echoes in ultrasonic imaging via homodyne detection. With
 15 the use of broadband sources, there is homodyne signal amplitude when the reference and signal
    beams are sufficiently close in optical delay. Time domain and spectral domain OCT use
    collinear reference and signal beams to achieve a detectable interference that includes the depth
    information.
    [00021     Currently known OCT systems involving axial measurements may be negatively
20  impacted by axial or transverse eye movement during the measurement. For example, existing
    time domain measurements techniques used to measure axial length may be prone to such errors
    where a mirror must be physically scanned to scan the depth range. Relatedly, many currently
    known spectral domain methods typically do not afford the depth of range desirable for axial
    length measurements because the depth range is determined by the spectral resolution of the
25  spectrometer/detector combination. In many instances, the range which may be obtained from
    such instruments is effectively limited to a maximum of about 5 mm. In addition, existing
    spectral domain OCT techniques may be prone to ghost images.
                                                      1

       [0003]     Some have proposed multiple spectral domain OCT systems with offset axial depth
       locations, single or multiple SLD sources for use with separate spectrometers for each depth, and
      the implementation of switchable time delay references (e.g., using fiber switches with different
      length fibers) for spectral domain OCT to address these limitations. However, many time such
   5  proposals suffer from high costs.
       [00041    Hence, although current techniques may provide real benefits to those in need, still
      further improvements may be desirable. Embodiments of the present invention provide solutions
      to at least some of these outstanding needs.
      [0004A] Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or suggestion
 10   that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this
     prior art could reasonably be expected to be combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled
     person in the art.
                                  BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
      [0004B] In a first aspect, the present invention provides an angle multiplexed optical coherence
 15  tomography system for evaluating an eye of a patient, the system comprising: a light source; an
     optical assembly for obtaining a plurality of sample beams which have passed through the eye of
     the patient and which correspond to respective anatomical locations of the eye of the patient,
     wherein individual sample beams are associated with respective non-zero angles relative to a
     reference beam to provide individual unique interference patterns having respective
20   characteristics that depend on the non-zero angles; and a detection mechanism that detects the
     individual unique interference patterns respectively provided by the plurality of sample beams,
     for simultaneous evaluation of the anatomical locations.
     [0004C] In a second aspect, the present invention provides an optical coherence tomography
     system for evaluating an eye of a patient, the system comprising: a light source; an optical
25   assembly for obtaining a sample beam which has passed through the eye of the patient and which
     corresponds to an anatomical location of the eye of the patient, wherein the sample beam is
     associated with a non-zero angle relative to a reference beam to provide an interference pattern
     having characteristics that depend on the non-zero angle; and a lens that receives the sample
     beam and reference beam as a pair of beams combined at the angle, and directs the combined
                                                       2

       1002156039
       sample-reference beam pair toward a detection mechanism that detects the interference pattern
      provided by the beam pair for evaluation of the anatomical location.
       [0004D] In a third aspect, the present invention provides an angle multiplexed optical coherence
      tomography method for evaluating an eye of a patient, comprising: obtaining a plurality of
  5   sample beams which have passed through the eye of the patient and which correspond to
      respective anatomical locations of the eye of the patient, wherein individual sample beams are
      associated with respective non-zero angles relative to a reference beam to provide individual
      unique interference patterns having respective characteristics that depend on the non-zero angles;
      detecting the individual unique interference patterns respectively provided by the plurality of
 10   sample beams; and evaluating the eye of the patient based on the detected interference patterns.
      [0004E] In a fourth aspect, the present invention provides an angle multiplexed optical
     coherence tomography system for evaluating an eye of a patient, the system comprising: a light
     source; an optical assembly for obtaining a reference beam and obtaining a plurality of sample
     beams which have passed through the eye of the patient and which correspond to respective
 15  anatomical locations of the eye of the patient; and a detection mechanism having a receiving
     surface, wherein the optical assembly directs the plurality of sample beams and the reference
     beam to be incident on the receiving surface of the detector mechanism at respective incident
     angles that are different from one another, and wherein the detection mechanism detects
     individual unique interference patterns respectively provided by the plurality of sample beams,
20   for simultaneous evaluation of the anatomical locations.
     [0004F] In a fifth aspect, the present invention provides an optical coherence tomography system
     for evaluating an eye of a patient, the system comprising: a light source; and an optical assembly
     for obtaining a reference beam and obtaining a sample beam which has passed through the eye of
    the patient and which corresponds to an anatomical location of the eye of the patient, including a
25   lens that receives the sample beam and the reference beam as a pair of beams combined at a non
    zero angle relative to each other, and directs the combined sample-reference beam pair toward a
    detection mechanism that detects an interference pattern provided by the beam pair for valuation
    of the anatomical location.
    [0004G] In a sixth aspect, the present invention provides an angle multiplexed optical coherence
30  tomography method for evaluating an eye of a patient, comprising: obtaining a reference beam;
                                                      2A

       1002156039
       obtaining a plurality of sample beams which have passed through the eye of the patient and
       which correspond to respective anatomical locations of the eye of the patient; directing the
      plurality of sample beams and the reference beam to be incident on a receiving surface of a
      detector mechanism at respective incident angles that are different from one another; detecting,
   5  by the detector mechanism, individual unique interference patterns respectively provided by the
      plurality of sample beams; and evaluating the eye of the patient based on the detected
      interference patterns.
      [0005]     Embodiments of the present invention encompass the use of highly precise OCT
      techniques, which are particularly useful for noninvasive evaluation of the optical characteristics
 10   of the human eye or other tissues, and can be used to enhance or supplement other optical
      evaluation modalities such as topography and/or wavefront sensing. For example certain OCT
      approaches can be used to asertain a range distance for use with topography procedures, and/or
     to measure internal distance features present within the eye. In some cases, OCT techniques as
      discussed herein can be used to precisely evaluate the distance between an optical element (e.g.
 15   final lens) of a optical system device and an optical feature (e.g. corneal apex) of the eye.
     Accordingly, embodiments of the present invention encompass systems and methods for
     obtaining extremely low surface uncertainties, for example on the order of a fraction of a micron.
     Topography measurements obtained in conjuction with such techniques can provide a highly
     accurate diagnostic evaluation for a patient eye, and such approaches are well suited for use in
20   evaluating corneal morphology and/or pathology, at times before, during, or after surgery.
     [00061     Embodiments of the present invention encompass systems and methods for evaluating
     optical tissue in an eye of a patient and for other medical imaging purposes. Exemplary
     techniques involve simultaneously monitoring a wide depth of range across patient tissue
     structure. In some cases, opthalmological evaluation techniques as discussed herein can be used
25   to obtain volumetric three dimensional images of the human eye. Exemplary techniques involve
     simultaneously monitoring multiple depth ranges with offsets, optionally with a single detector.
     Such approaches can ensure time coincidence and also lower hardware costs. In some cases,
                                                       2B

      exemplary techniques do not involve the use of complicated IR detectors or swept light sources.
     In some cases, exemplary techniques do not inovlve the use of devices requiring a complex
      assembly of moving parts or complicated data acquisition and processing routines. According to
     some embodiments, angularly multiplexed signals from different depths or spatial locations can
  5  be combined on a single detector to provide simultaneous homodyne detection. According to
     some embodiments, such combination methods can provide a depth span for each angularly
     encoded signal, making it possible to simultaneously measure over a large effective depth of
     range or to simultaneously measure at different spatial locations.
      [0007]   In one aspect, embodiments of the present invention encompass angle multiplexed
 10  optical coherence tomography systems and methods for evaluating an eye of a patient.
     Exemplary systems include a light source, and an optical assembly for obtaining a plurality of
     sample beams corresponding to respective anatomical locations of the eye of the patient.
     Individual sample beams are associated with a respective angle relative to a reference beam.
     Systems can also include a detection mechanism that detects individual unique interference
15  patterns respectively provided by the plurality of sample beams, for simultaneous evaluation of
    the anatomical locations. According to some embodiments, individual sample beams provide
    respective unique interference spatial periods at the detection mechanism. According to some
    embodiments, unique interference spatial periods are adjustable in response to changes in
    respective sample beam angles relative to the reference beam. In some cases, systems include
20  one or more collimation lenses that direct combined sample-reference beam pairs toward the
    detection mechanism. In some cases, systems and methods provide an accuracy for range
    finding on the order of 10 microns. In some cases, systems include a filter assembly that
    transmits transmits interference signals at spatial frequencies about a first sample-reference beam
    pair and suppresses interference signals at spatial frequencies about a second sample-reference
25  beam pair.
    [00081    In another aspect, embodiments of the present invention encompass optical coherence
    tomography for evaluating an eye of a patient, which involve a light source, and an optical
    assembly for obtaining a sample beams corresponding to an anatomical location of the eye of the
    patient. The sample beam can be associated with an angle relative to a reference beam. Systems
30  and methods can also involve a lens that receives the sample beam and reference beam as a pair
                                                      3

       of beams combined at the angle, and directs the combined sample-reference beam pair toward a
       detection mechanism that detects an interference pattern provided by the beam pair for
       evaluation of the anatomical location.
       [0009]    In another aspect, embodimnents of the present invention encompass angle multiplexed
   5   optical coherence tomography systems and methods for evaluating an eye of a patient.
      Exemplary methods include obtaining a plurality of sample beams corresponding to respective
      anatomical locations of the eye of the patient. Individual sample beams can be associated with a
      respective angle relative to a reference beam. Methods may also include detecting individual
      unique interference patterns respectively provided by the plurality of sample beams, and
 10   evaluating the eye of the patient based on the detected interference patterns. In some cases,
      methods include positioning a corneal topography system relative to the eye based on the
      evaluation, and obtaining a corneal topography measurement of the eye. In
                                                                                    some cases,
      topography measurements can be performed without aligning the corneal topography system
      using corneal topography fiducials.
 15
                                BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
      [00101    Figures I to 15 depict aspects of angular optical coherence tomography systems and
     methods according to embodiments of the present invention.
20                           DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
     100111     Embodiments of the present invention encompass systems and methods for the
     tomographical monitoring of optical or other patient tissue across a wide depth of range in a
     simultaneous fashion, According to some embodiments, angular multiplexed optical coherence
     tomography (AMOCT) techniques can use non-collinear beams to produce a spatial interference
25   pattern with a unique carrier frequency. Such a frequency can be determined by the angle
     between the signal and reference beams. Multiple carrier frequencies can be supported
     simultaneously on a single linear array detector by assigning a unique angle to each unique
     signal beam and combining them with a single, common reference beam.
     [0012]     According to some embodiments, a detector can receive multiple signal frequencies
30   simultaneously, and the readout of a signal assigned to a specific carrier frequency can be
                                                      4

      achieved by frequency filtering the composite signal. Having resolved the specific signals, the
      composite echo signal can be constructed using prior knowledge about their respective time
      delays or spatial locations. The delays in the various signals may be distributed to provide a
      large effective depth range useful in simultaneous anterior chamber depth (ACD),
                                                                                            lens thickness,
  5   axial length, or other optical feature measurements. According to some embodiments, the
      signals may have similar delays but could sample various transverse locations simultaneously to
     provide multi-point measurements such as multipoint pachymetry without the need for moving
     parts.
      [0013]    Embodiments of the present invention can be readily adapted for use with existing laser
 10  systems and other optical diagnostic and treatment devices. Although system, software, and
     method embodiments of the present invention are described primarily in the context of a laser
     eye surgery system, it should be understood that embodiments of the present invention may be
     adapted for use in alternative eye diagnostic and treatment procedures, systems,
                                                                                         or modalities,
     such as spectacle lenses, intraocular lenses, accommodating IOLs, contact lenses, corneal ring
 15  implants, collagenous corneal tissue thermal remodeling, corneal inlays, corneal onlays, other
     corneal implants or grafts, and the like. Relatedly, systems, software, and methods according to
     embodiments of the present invention are well suited for customizing any of these treatment
    modalities to a specific patient. Thus, for example, embodiments encompass custom intraocular
    lenses, custom contact lenses, custom corneal implants, and the like, which can be configured to
20  treat or ameliorate any of a variety of vision conditions in a particular patient based on their
    unique ocular characteristics or anatomy. Additionally, the ablation target or target shape may
    be implemented via other non-ablative laser therapies, such as laser-incised custom lenticule
    shapes and subsequent extraction and laser-based corneal incision patterns. Embodiments of
                                                                                                       the
    present invention are not limited to ophthalmic uses and can include analysis of translucent
25  biological tissues and inorganic materials,
    [00141     Turning now to the drawings, FIG. 1 illustrates a laser eye surgery system 10 of the
    present invention, including a laser 12 that produces a laser beam 14. Laser 12 is optically
    coupled to laser delivery optics 16, which directs laser beam 14 to an eye E of patient P. A
    delivery optics support structure (not shown here for clarity) extends from a frame 18 supporting
                                                      5

       laser 12. A microscope 20 is mounted on the delivery optics support structure, the microscope
       often being used to image a cornea of eye E.
        [00151   Laser 12 generally comprises an excimer laser, ideally comprising an argon-fluorine
       laser producing pulses of laser light having a wavelength of approximately 193 nm. Laser 12
   5   will preferably be designed to provide a feedback stabilized fluence at the patient's eye, delivered
       via delivery optics 16. The present invention may also be useful with alternative sources of
       ultraviolet or infrared radiation, particularly those adapted to controllably ablate the corneal
       tissue without causing significant damage to adjacent and/or underlying tissues of the eye. Such
       sources include, but are not limited to, solid state lasers and other devices which can generate
 10    energy in the ultraviolet wavelength between about 185 and 205 nm and/or those which utilize
       frequency-multiplying techniques. Hence, although an excimer laser is the illustrative source of
       an ablating beam, other lasers may be used in the present invention.
       [0016]    Laser system 10 will generally include a computer or programmable processor 22.
       Processor 22 may comprise (or interface with) a conventional PC system including the standard
 15   user interface devices such as a keyboard, a display monitor, and the like. Processor 22 will
      typically include an input device such as a magnetic or optical disk drive, an internet
                                                                                                connection,
      or the like. Such input devices will often be used to download a computer executable code from
      a tangible storage media 29 embodying any of the methods of the present invention. Tangible
      storage media 29 may take the form of a floppy disk, an optical disk, a data tape, a volatile or
20    non-volatile memory, RAM, or the like, and the processor 22 will include the memory boards
      and other standard components of modem computer systems for storing and executing this code.
      Tangible storage media 29 may optionally embody wavefront sensor data, wavefront gradients, a
      wavefront elevation map, a treatment map, a corneal elevation map, and/or an ablation table.
      While tangible storage media 29 will often be used directly in cooperation with a input device of
25   processor 22, the storage media may also be remotely operatively coupled with processor by
     means of network connections such as the internet, and by wireless methods such as infrared,
     Bluetooth, or the like.
      [0017]    Laser 12 and delivery optics 16 will generally direct laser beam 14 to the eye of patient
     P under the direction of a computer 22. Computer 22 will often selectively adjust laser beam 14
30   to expose portions of the cornea to the pulses of laser energy so as to effect a predetermined
                                                          6

      sculpting of the cornea and alter the refractive characteristics of the eye. In many embodiments,
      both laser beam 14 and the laser delivery optical system 16 will be under computer control of
      processor 22 to effect the desired laser sculpting process, with the processor effecting (and
      optionally modifying) the pattern of laser pulses. The pattern of pulses may by summarized in
  5   machine readable data of tangible storage media 29 in the form of a treatment table, and the
      treatment table may be adjusted according to feedback input into processor 22 from an
      automated image analysis system in response to feedback data provided from an ablation
      monitoring system feedback system. Optionally, the feedback may be manually entered into the
     processor by a system operator. Such feedback might be provided by integrating the wavefront
 10  measurement system described below with the laser treatment system 10, and processor 22 may
      continue and/or tenninate a sculpting treatment in response to the feedback, and may optionally
     also modify the planned sculpting based at least in part on the feedback. Measurement systems
     are further described in U.S. Patent No. 6,315,413, the full disclosure of which is incorporated
     herein by reference.
15   [0018]    Laser beam 14 may be adjusted to produce the desired sculpting using a variety of
     alternative mechanisms. The laser beam 14 may be selectively limited using one or more
     variable apertures. An exemplary variable aperture system having a variable iris and a variable
     width slit is described in U.S. Patent No. 5,713,892, the full disclosure of which is incorporated
     herein by reference. The laser beam may also be tailored by varying the size and offset of the
20   laser spot from an axis of the eye, as described in U.S. Patent Nos, 5,683,379, 6,203,539, and
     6,331,177, the full disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
     [0019]    Still further alternatives are possible, including scanning of the laser beam over the
     surface of the eye and controlling the number of pulses and/or dwell time at each location, as
    described, for example, by U.S. Patent No. 4,665,913, the full disclosure of which is
25  incorporated herein by reference; using masks in the optical path of laser beam 14 which ablate
    to vary the profile of the beam incident on the cornea, as described in U.S. Patent
                                                                                           No. 5,807,379,
    the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference; hybrid profile-scanning systems
    in which a variable size beam (typically controlled by a variable width slit and/or variable
    diameter iris diaphragm) is scanned across the cornea; or the like. The computer programs and
                                                         7

     control methodology for these laser pattern tailoring techniques are well described in the patent
     literature,
     100201      Additional components and subsystems may be included with laser system 10, as
     should be understood by those of skill in the art. For example, spatial and/or temporal
  5  integrators may be included to control the distribution of energy within the laser beam, as
     described in U.S. Patent No. 5,646,791, the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
     reference. Ablation effluent evacuators/filters, aspirators, and other ancillary components of the
     laser surgery system are known in the art. Further details of suitable systems for performing a
     laser ablation procedure can be found in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,665,913,
 10  4,669,466, 4,732,148, 4,770,172, 4,773,414, 5,207,668, 5,108,388, 5,219,343, 5,646,791 and
     5,163,934, the complete disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Suitable
     systems also include commercially available refractive laser systems such as those manufactured
     and/or sold by Alcon, Bausch & Lomb, Nidek, WaveLight, LaserSight, Schwind, Zeiss-Meditec,
    and the like. Basis data can be further characterized for particular lasers or operating conditions,
15  by taking into account localized environmental variables such as temperature, humidity, airflow,
    and aspiration.
     [0021]    FIG. 2 is a simplified block diagram of an exemplary computer system 22 that may be
    used by the laser surgical system 10 of the present invention. Computer system 22 typically
    includes at least one processor 52 which may communicate with a number of peripheral devices
20  via a bus subsystem 54. These peripheral devices may include a storage subsystem 56,
    comprising a memory subsystem 58 and a file storage subsystem 60, user interface input devices
    62, user interface output devices 64, and a network interface subsystem 66. Network interface
    subsystem 66 provides an interface to outside networks 68 and/or other devices, such as the
    wavefront measurement system 30.
25  [0022J     User interface input devices 62 may include a keyboard, pointing devices such as a
    mouse, trackball, touch pad, or graphics tablet, a scanner, foot pedals, ajoystick, a touchscreen
    incorporated into the display, audio input devices such as voice recognition systems,
    microphones, and other types of input devices. User input devices 62 will often be used to
    download a computer executable code from a tangible storage media 29 embodying any of the
30  methods of the present invention. In general, use of the term "input device" is intended to
                                                      8

      include a variety of conventional and proprietary devices and ways to input information into
      computer system 22.
      [0023]    User interface output devices 64 may include a display subsystem, a printer, a fax
      machine, or non-visual displays such as audio output devices. The display subsystem may be a
  5  cathode ray tube (CRT), a flat-panel device such as a liquid crystal display (LCD), a projection
     device, or the like. The display subsystem may also provide a non-visual display such as via
     audio output devices. In general, use of the term "output device" is intended to include a variety
     of conventional and proprietary devices and ways to output information from computer system
     22 to a user.
 10  [00241     Storage subsystem 56 can store the basic programming and data constructs that provide
     the functionality of the various embodiments of the present invention. For example, a database
     and modules implementing the functionality of the methods of the present invention, as
     described herein, may be stored in storage subsystem 56. These software modules are generally
     executed by processor 52. In a distributed environment, the software modules may be stored on
 15  a plurality of computer systems and executed by processors of the plurality of computer systems.
     Storage subsystem 56 typically comprises memory subsystem 58 and file storage subsystem 60.
     [00251     Memory subsystem 58 typically includes a number of memories including a main
    random access memory (RAM) 70 for storage of instructions and data during program execution
    and a read only memory (ROM) 72 in which fixed instructions are stored. File storage
20  subsystem 60 provides persistent (non-volatile) storage for program and data files, and may
    include tangible storage media 29 (FIG. 1) which may optionally embody wavefront
                                                                                           sensor data,
    wavefront gradients, a wavefront elevation map, a treatment map, and/or an ablation table. File
    storage subsystem 60 may include a hard disk drive, a floppy disk drive along with associated
    removable media, a Compact Digital Read Only Memory (CD-ROM) drive, an optical
                                                                                             drive,
25  DVD, CD-R, CD-RW, solid-state removable memory, and/or other removable media cartridges
    or disks. One or more of the drives may be located at remote locations on other connected
    computers at other sites coupled to computer system 22. The modules implementing the
    functionality of the present invention may be stored by file storage subsystem 60.
    [0026]     Bus subsystem 54 provides a mechanism for letting the various components and
30  subsystems of computer system 22 communicate with each other as intended. The various
                                                      9

      subsystems and components of computer system 22 need not be at the same physical location but
      may be distributed at various locations within a distributed network. Although bus subsystem 54
      is shown schematically as a single bus, alternate embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize
      multiple busses.
  5   [0027]    Computer system 22 itself can be of varying types including a personal computer, a
      portable computer, a workstation, a computer terminal, a network computer, a control system in
      a wavefront measurement system or laser surgical system, a mainframe, or any other data
     processing system. Due to the ever-changing nature of computers and networks, the description
     of computer system 22 depicted in FIG. 2 is intended only as a specific example for purposes of
 10  illustrating one embodiment of the present invention. Many other configurations of computer
     system 22 are possible having more or less components than the computer system depicted in
     FIG. 2.
     [0028]     Referring now to FIG. 3, one embodiment of a wavefront measurement system 30 is
     schematically illustrated in simplified form. In very general terms, wavefront measurement
15   system 30 is configured to sense local slopes of a gradient map exiting the patient's eye. Devices
     based on the Hartmann-Shack principle generally include a lenslet array to sample the gradient
     map uniformly over an aperture, which is typically the exit pupil of the eye. Thereafter, the local
     slopes of the gradient map are analyzed so as to reconstruct the wavefront surface or map.
     10029]     More specifically, one wavefront measurement system 30 includes an image
                                                                                             source 32,
20   such as a laser, which projects a source image through optical tissues 34 of eye E so as to forn
     an image 44 upon a surface of retina R. The image from retina R is transmitted by the optical
     system of the eye (e.g., optical tissues 34) and imaged onto a wavefront sensor 36 by system
     optics 37. The wavefront sensor 36 communicates signals to a computer system 22' for
    measurement of the optical errors in the optical tissues 34 aud/or determination of an optical
25  tissue ablation treatment program. Computer 22' may include the same or similar hardware as
    the computer system 22 illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 2. Computer system 22' may be in
    communication with computer system 22 that directs the laser surgery system 10, or some or all
    of the components of computer system 22, 22' of the wavefront measurement system 30 and
    laser surgery system 10 may be combined or separate. If desired, data from wavefront sensor 36
                                                       10

      may be transmitted to a laser computer system 22 via tangible media 29, via an I/O port, via an
      networking connection 66 such as an intranet or the Internet, or the like.
      [0030]    Wavefront sensor 36 generally comprises a lenslet array 38 and an image sensor 40. As
      the image from retina R is transmitted through optical tissues 34 and imaged onto a surface of
  5   image sensor 40 and an image of the eye pupil P is similarly imaged onto a surface of lenslet
      array 38, the lenslet array separates the transmitted image into an array of beamlets 42, and (in
      combination with other optical components of the system) images the separated beamlets on the
      surface of sensor 40. Sensor 40 typically comprises a charged couple device or "CCD," and
      senses the characteristics of these individual beamlets, which can be used to determine the
 10  characteristics of an associated region of optical tissues 34. In particular, where image 44
     comprises a point or small spot of light, a location of the transmitted spot as imaged by a beamlet
     can directly indicate a local gradient of the associated region of optical tissue.
      [00311    Eye E generally defines an anterior orientation ANT and a posterior orientation POS.
     Image source 32 generally projects an image in a posterior orientation through optical tissues 34
 15  onto retina R as indicated in FIG. 3, Optical tissues 34 again transmit image 44 from the retina
     anteriorly toward wavefront sensor 36. Image 44 actually formed on retina R may be distorted
     by any imperfections in the eye's optical system when the image source is originally transmitted
     by optical tissues 34. Optionally, image source projection optics 46 may be configured or
     adapted to decrease any distortion of image 44,
20   [0032     In some embodiments, image source optics 46 may decrease lower order optical errors
     by compensating for spherical and/or cylindrical errors of optical tissues 34. Higher order
    optical errors of the optical tissues may also be compensated through the use of an adaptive optic
    element, such as a deformable mirror (described below). Use of an image source 32 selected to
    define a point or small spot at image 44 upon retina R may facilitate the analysis of the data
25  provided by wavefront sensor 36. Distortion of image 44 may be limited by transmitting a
    source image through a central region 48 of optical tissues 34 which is smaller than a pupil 50, as
    the central portion of the pupil may be less prone to optical errors than the peripheral portion.
    Regardless of the particular image source structure, it will be generally be beneficial to have a
    well-defined and accurately formed image 44 on retina R.
                                                       11

      10033]     In one embodiment, the wavefront data may be stored in a computer readable medium
      29 or a memory of the wavefront sensor system 30 in two separate arrays containing the x and y
      wavefront gradient values obtained from image spot analysis of the Hartmann-Shack sensor
      images, plus the x and y pupil center offsets from the nominal center of the Hartmann-Shack
  5   lenslet array, as measured by the pupil camera 51 (FIG. 3) image. Such information contains all
     the available information on the wavefront error of the eye and is sufficient to reconstruct the
      wavefront or any portion of it. In such embodiments, there is no need to reprocess the
     Hartmann-Shack image more than once, and the data space required to store the gradient array is
     not large. For example, to accommodate an image of a pupil with an 8 mm diameter, an array of
 10  a 20 x 20 size (i.e., 400 elements) is often sufficient. As can be appreciated, in other
     embodiments, the wavefront data may be stored in a memory of the wavefront sensor system in a
     single array or multiple arrays.
     10034]     While the methods of the present invention will generally be described with reference
     to sensing of an image 44, a series of wavefront sensor data readings may be taken. For
 15  example, a time series of wavefront data readings may help to provide a more accurate overall
     determination of the ocular tissue aberrations. As the ocular tissues can vary in shape over a
    brief period of time, a plurality of temporally separated wavefront sensor measurements can
     avoid relying on a single snapshot of the optical characteristics as the basis for a refractive
     correcting procedure. Still further alternatives are also available, including taking wavefront
20   sensor data of the eye with the eye in differing configurations, positions, and/or orientations. For
     example, a patient will often help maintain alignment of the eye with wavefront measurement
     system 30 by focusing on a fixation target, as described in U.S. Patent No. 6,004,313, the full
    disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. By varying a position of the fixation
    target as described in that reference, optical characteristics of the eye may be determined while
25  the eye accommodates or adapts to image a field of view at a varying distance and/or angles.
     [0035]     The location of the optical axis of the eye may be verified by reference to the data
    provided from a pupil camera 52. In the exemplary embodiment, a pupil camera 52 images pupil
    50 so as to determine a position of the pupil for registration of the wavefront sensor data relative
    to the optical tissues.
                                                        12

      10036]   An alternative embodiment of a wavefront measurement system is illustrated in FIG.
     3A, The major components of the system of FIG. 3A are similar to those of FIG. 3.
     Additionally, FIG. 3A includes an adaptive optical element 53 in the form of a deformable
     mirror. The source image is reflected from deformable mirror 98 during transmission to retina
  5  R, and the deformable mirror is also along the optical path used to form the transmitted image
     between retina R and imaging sensor 40. Deformable mirror 98 can be controllably deformed by
     computer system 22 to limit distortion of the image formed on the retina or of subsequent images
     forced of the images formed on the retina, and may enhance the accuracy of the resultant
     wavefont data. The structure and use of the system of FIG. 3A are more fully described in U.S.
 10  Patent No. 6,095,651, the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
     [0037]    The components of an embodiment of a wavefront measurement system for measuring
     the eye and ablations may comprise elements of a WaveScan® system, available from AMO
    MANUFACTURING       USA, LLC, MILPITAS, California. One embodiment includes a WaveScan
     system with a deformable mirror as described above. An alternate embodiment of a wavefront
15  measuring system is described in U.S. Patent No, 6,271,915, the full disclosure of which is
    incorporated herein by reference. It is appreciated that any wavefront aberrometer could be
    employed for use with the present invention. Relatedly, embodiments of the present invention
    encompass the implementation of any of a variety of optical instruments provided by AMO
    WaveFront Sciences, LLC, including the COAS wavefront aberrometer, the ClearWave contact
20  lens aberrometer, the CrystalWave IOL aberrometer, and the like.
    10038]    Relatedly, embodiments of the present invention encompass the implementation of any
    of a variety of optical instruments provided by WaveFront Sciences, Inc., including the COAS
    wavefront aberrometer, the ClearWave contact lens aberrometer, the CrystalWave IOL
    aberrometer, and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may also involve wavefront
25  measurement schemes such as a Tscherning-based system, which may be provided by
    WaveFront Sciences, Inc. Embodiments of the present invention may also involve wavefront
    measurement schemes such as a ray tracing-based system, which may be provided by Tracey
    Technologies, Corp.
    [00391    Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT)
                                                    13

      [0040]    Optical coherence tomography (OCT) system and methods may be used to ascertain the
      location and orientation of the anatomical features within the eye (e.g., the anterior and posterior
      corneal surfaces, capsular bag, lens, and the like), either prior to, during, or after a surgical
      procedure. These data can be used to advantage in planning the surgical treatment. For
  5   example, in advanced LASIK planning, the location of the critical refractive surfaces, in
      conjuction with wavefront data, can be used to customize the corneal ablastion. See, e.g.,
     Mrochen et al., "Optical ray tracingfor the calculationof optimized corneal ablationprofiles in
     refractive treatmentplanning"J. Refract. Surg., April, 24(4): S446-S451 (2008), the content of
     which is incorporated herein by reference. In some cases, such evaluation techniques can be
 10  performed in combination with a femtosecond laser treatment to create incisions within corneal
     tissue to form a LASIK flap. Other ophthalmic treatments involve procedures performed on
     anatomical features within the eye, such as the capsular bag, lens, cornea, and the like. Such
     treatments may involve the removal of cataracts. Embodiments of the present invention
     encompass methods and systems for analyzing the ophthalmic anatomy of a patient via certain
 15  OCT techniques, and/or for providing therapeutic treatment to the ophthalmic anatomy. In some
     cases, techniques may involve evaluating an ophthalmic anatomical feature of the eye, and
     optionally operating a laser beam or providing some other therapeutic treatment modality to one
     or more of the anatomical features. Exemplary therapeutic treatments (e.g. which may be
     performed with a femtosecond laser or other device) include phacoemulsification, capsulorhexis,
20   capsulotomy, and the like. Capsulotomy procedures generally refer to procedure where the
     capsule is removed. Capsulorhexis procedures involve cutting of capsule and
    phacoemulsification procedures involve disrupting, breaking up, or emulsifying the lens. Such
    treatments may be performed as part of an extracapsular cataract extraction procedure (ECCE).
     [0041]    Embodiments of the present invention can be readily adapted for use with existing laser
25  systems and other optical treatment devices. Although system, software, and method
    embodiments of the present invention are described primarily in the context of a laser eye
    surgery system, it should be understood that embodiments of the present invention may be
    adapted for use in alternative eye treatment procedures, systems, or modalities, such as spectacle
    lenses, intraocular lenses, accommodating TOLs, contact lenses, corneal ring implants,
30  collagenous corneal tissue thermal remodeling, corneal inlays, corneal onlays, other corneal
    implants or grafts, and the like. Relatedly, systems, software, and methods according to
                                                       14

     embodiments of the present invention are well suited for customizing any of these treatment
     modalities to a specific patient. Thus, for example, embodiments encompass custom intraocular
     lenses, custom contact lenses, custom corneal implants, and the like, which can be configured to
     treat or ameliorate any of a variety of vision conditions in a particular patient based on their
  5  unique ocular characteristics or anatomy.
     [0042]     A wide variety of OCT devices (eg., spectral domain (SDOCT), swept source
     (SSOCT), time domain (TDOCT)) have been proposed, often involving white light
     interferometers incorporating a light source that has wide spectral width or which can be tuned
     rapidly over wide spectral range. A useful review of OCT methods can be found in Wojtkowski,
 10  "High-speed optical coherence tomography: basics andapplications"Appl. Opt., June 1,
     49(16):D30-61 (2010), the content of which is incorporated herein by reference. Typically, the
     light is split into two components, one of which serves as a reference and the other to probe the
     sample in question. The beams are recombined and produce an interference pattern which is
     detected and analyzed to deduce range information. The interference pattern is produced when
15   the recombined beams have a path length difference within the coherence length of the light
     source. Indeed this is what determines the depth resolution of the OCT system. In such cases of
     OCT, the depth resolution is determined by the effective spectral breadth of the light source
     according to the following equation.
         L 21n(2) A
              7rn AA
     where
     n = refractive index
     A = center wavelength
     A1 = spectralwidth (FWHM)
     [0043]     A super luminescent diode is often used to provide a wide spectral width having good
20  transverse coherence. In the case of SSOCT, the effective spectral breadth is given by the tuning
    range of the swept source. The interference pattern can be detected in a number of ways. In
    SDOCT, the interference is imposed as a modulation in the spectrum of the combined return
    light and is detected by using spectrometer. In SSOCT, a narrow bandwidth source is tuned and
    the interference is imposed as a time modulation on the combined return light and is detected
                                                      15

      with a balanced photodiode. Likewise, the interference is a time modulation in TDOCT where
      the interference is created by varying the reference path length.
       [00441    The depth range of the OCT systems can also depend on the OCT type. For SDOCT,
      the depth range is limited by the spectral resolution of the spectrometer to a few millimeters.
   5  SSOCT systems have depth range that is either limited by the k-frequency sample rate of the
      interference signal, or by the bandwidth of the narrow bandwidth laser source according to the
      equation above, whichever is shorter. TDOCT has an advantage over most other OCT systems
      in that the depth range is limited only by the range over which the reference leg is varied; indeed,
      commercial devices using this method have been available for biometry of the eye;
 10   unfortunately, the required large motion of the reference path can introduce sufficient time for
      variations in the sample path due to eye motion, thus compromising the integrity of the
     measurement. Only recently, through the use of specialized MEMS tunable vertical-cavity
      surface emitting laser with long coherence length and a high speed digitization circuit, has a
      depth range of tens of millimeters been attained in combination with high speed OCT
 15  acquisition. Use of such OCT systems has finally allowed full eye OCT imaging. See, e.g.,
     Grulkowski et aL, "Retinal, anteriorsegment andfull eye imaging using ultrahigh speed swept
     source OCT with vertical-cavitysurface emitting lasers", Biomedical Optics Express,
     November, 3(1l):2733-51 (2012), the content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
     Knupfer and Hauger have described an OCT method comprised of two beams combined
20   noncolinearly on a detector in US Patent No. 6,396,587, the content of which is incorporated
     herein by reference. Like many other OCT systems the broadband source is split into reference
     and signal beams. The reference and return signal beams are contained in optical fibers. These
     optical fibers are simply directed toward a detector having a multiplicity of pixels distributed in
     the plane containing both fibers. The light emitted from the fibers produces a spatially compact
25   interference pattern modulated across the detector. The pattern is displaced along the detector
     according the path length difference between the reference and return signal beams. Related
     systems are described in Hauger et al., "Interferometer for Optical Coherence Tomography",
     Applied Optics, Vol. 42 Issue 19, pp. 3896-3902 (2003), the content of which is incorporated
     herein by reference. It is noted that such systems involve non-linear displacement in the path
30   difference.
                                                       16

      [0045]    Angle Multiplexed Optical Coherence Tomography (AMOCT)
     [0046]    As discussed elsewhere herein, angle multiplexed optical coherence tomography
     (AMOCT) systems and methods can involve the use of multiple test beams (optionally, with
     differing delays) which can be combined with a single reference beam on a single detector, for
  5  purposes of evaluating the ocular anatomy of an individual patient. Embodiments disclosed
     herein involve the use of optics to linearize the interference pattern displacement with path
     difference and the combination of multiple signal beams to provide simultaneous OCT
     measurements, According to some embodiments, individual test beams can be assigned
     respective unique spatial frequencies. For example, it is possible to assign or correlate an
 10  individual test beam to a unique angle relative to the reference beam. According to some
     embodiments, individual spatial frequencies can be resolved from the detector signal using
    Fourier analysis with matched filters, in a manner similar to how a radio operates to isolate
     individual stations. Accordingly, AMOCT can involve the simultaneous measurement of
    multiple test beams. According to some embodiments, where a return beam is weak compared to
 15 a reference beam, the fringes due to the signal beam interference are very weak and are at a
    different spatial frequency. According to some embodiments, return return beams can be
    collected on multiple fibers, probing different spatial or depth regions.
     [0047]    An analysis of multiple beam interference that follows includes n collimated beams
    propagating in different directions, kj. As depicted in FIG. 5, multiple beams can be combined
20  through a single collimating lens on a single detector, though multiple collimation lenses could
    be used. This analysis yields the following equation for the detected spatial intensity of the
    combined beams:
     I(,)             (     +    (o)e                             ++ E (o)E (co)e
    where E and w are the electric field amplitude and the frequency of each beam, respectively, and
25  c is the speed of light. The first term is the incoherent sum of the beam intensities and the
    second term contains is the interferences between each beams. This equation is further
    simplified with a few definitions
                                                       17

                 ,)  (O)+.I1(O)I,(c))         Cos[(        +r,)a
      where
      Ii(0)= E (0)    2
      sk,=#     -#,
     [0048]    The intensity of each beam is given by Lq(co), Akp, is the difference in propagation
     directions of each pair of beams, and Tji is the path delay difference (in units of time). This
     equation may be relevant to various OCT methods.
  5  [0049]    For the collinear methods of SDOCT, SSOCT and TDOCT, Akpi.equals 0 leaving
       (0)) =  1(o)+Z         I, (0)1] (cO) cos[r1 co]
     [00501    The OCT signal for SDOCT is the spectrally resolved I(o), SSOCT contains an
    implicit time dependence in o(t) as the laser frequency is tuned yielding a time dependent signal,
    1(t). Finally, TDOCT contains a variable rp as the reference path length is varied in time; in this
10  case the detector integrates over all frequencies o. In each case, the modulation depth of
    interference is twice the square root of the product of intensities.
    {00511     The above equation involves a notable short coming of collinear OCT methods-that
    the signals due to positive and negative delays are not distinguishable. Indeed to distinguish
    between positive and negative delays, some have proposed phase shift detection methods such as
15  that noted by Wotjkowski et al., "Full range complex spectral optical coherence tomography
    technique in eye imaging" Optics Letters, Vol. 27, Issue 16, pp. 1415-1417 (2002), the content of
    which is incorporated herein by reference. Such methods use weighted averages of five OCT
    images with phase shifts in the reference path length. While improving the depth range and
    signal to noise ratio of these OCT methods, this technique has the drawbacks of requiring a
20  precise phase shift mechanism like a piezoelectric tranducer, a stable path length to the sample,
    and reduces the overall acquisition rate by a factor of five.
                                                       18

     [0052]     Now consider the non-colinear case. Assuming without loss of generality, that the
    beams propagate in the xz plane of our coordinate system, that the reference beam (the 1th beam)
    propagates along the z axis and the j*'beam propagates at an angle Og with respect to the z axis,
     that the detector is located at z=0 and oriented along the x direction and then the OCT equation
  5  equation simplifies. Note that like the TDOCT case, the detector integrates over all frequencies
    yielding
     I(x)=J     ZIw(X)+             IQ(0)I(co) cos[(      +r 1 )co] dw
                 j         j I                       C
     [0053]     The OCT signal is dependent on detector position, x, which acts like a scaled version of
    the time delay, ry. The x position represents a true linear time delay induced by the non
 10 colinearity of the beams without the sign ambiguity of other OCT methods. The spatial period of
    the interference signal produced by the j" and    f' beams is given by
     Period =asin[94 ]             27r .
          Penod__-             ---   sm[Q,]
                      c             A
    where A is the wavelength of the source. Thus we see that each pair of beams produces an
    interference signal with unique spatial period. There is a unique period adjustable by angle of
15  propagation. Multiple beams can be combined on a single detector, each pair of which produce
    an OCT interference that can be separated from the others by virtue of its unique spatial period.
    In the case of a narrowband source, the interference signal extends across the detector; however,
    if the source has sufficient bandwidth, then the interference signal is localized about the point
    where the reference and signal beam delays are equal with an extent determined by the source
20  coherence length.
    [0054]      According to some embodiments, AMOCT systems and methods may involve
    combining a reference beam with the test beam at an angle to produce spatial interference
    fringes. In some instances, a maximum range can be obtained when the spatial period is just
    resolved by the detector. In some instances, if one fringe covers 4 pixels, then 4 pixels equal one
25  wave (X) of optical delay. In some instances, if the number of detectors is N, then the useful
    AMOCT z range is N*2/4. According to some embodiments, AMOCT can use a simple
    broadband source, such as an SLD. According to some AMOCT embodiments, the width of the
                                                       19

   fringe envelope can be inversely related to the bandwidth of the source. According to some
   embodiments, AMOCT systems and methods may involve monitoring multiple beams.
   According to some embodiments, AMOCT systems and methods may involve the use of an
   optical delay that is rigorously linear in the detector position. According to some embodiments,
 5 AMOCT systems and methods may operate with no ambiguity with regard to positive and
   negative relative delays.
    [0055]    OCT embodiments of the instant invention can be used to provide highly precise
   rangefinder limits which enable extremely accurate elevation map evaluations. For example,
   certain OCT techniques can provide an accuracy for range finding on the order of 10 microns,
10 and thus provide improved standards of precision for corneal topography evaluations. In some
   cases, the incorporation of selected OCT techniques can eliminate or reduce the need for comeal
   topography fiducials during alignment by providing accurate feedback to position optical
   equipment. As discussed elsewhere here, OCT embodiments can be used to characterize aspects
   of the corneal and other optical features, as well as other tissues. Corneal thickness
15 (pachymetry) is a useful screening parameter to qualify patients for LASIK and other surgeries,
   and OCT approaches as discussed herein can enhance such measurements. Further, selected
   OCT techniques can be used to supplement or provide improved biometric measurements of
   corneal stiffness (e.g., tonography). In some cases, the OCT systems and methods discussed
   herein can be used in ocular biometry for advanced LASIK treatment planning and IOL fitting.
20 Exemplary OCT techniques can be used to measure anterior chamber depth, lens thickness, axial
   length, and other anatomical features of the eye. Further, exemplary OCT measurements can be
   combined with tomographic wavefront measurements and Purkinge data to model or evaluate
   individual eyes comprehensively.
    [00561   Embodiments of the present invention provide OCT techniques where the optical range
25 is not limited by the resolution of the spectrometer or detector, and where positive and negative
   displacements are distinguishable with single measurements. Further, embodiments provide
   OCT techniques where the optical range is not limited by the detector bandwidth, and where
   higher detector bandwidths can be used without a corresponding increase in noise levels. What
   is more, embodiments of the present invention provide OCT techniques where sensitivity is
                                                      20

     retained at the extremes of the optical range, and where OCT signals with different depth offsets
     can be measured simultaneously.
      [0057]     Single Signal-Reference Beam Pair
     [0058]     FIG. 4 illustrates aspects of angular multiplexed optical coherence tomography
  5  (AMOCT) systems and methods according to embodiments of the present invention. As
     depicted here, the AMOCT system 400 includes a light source 410. The light source may be
     provided as a single source light mechanism, such as a super luminescent diode (SLD), which
     may be fiber-coupled. In some cases, light from the light source can be coupled into a fiber and
     split into two beams by a fiber coupler. As shown here, a fiber splitter 420 can be used to direct
 10  a signal or sample beam along a sample leg 430 toward a test object 432 (such as an eye) and a
     reference beam along a reference leg 440 toward a detector 442 such as an array detector. Here,
    the reference beam is delayed by running the reference beam through a delay mechanism 450.
     For example, the reference beam can be delayed a fixed amount by running the beam through
     additional fiber length and/or free space. The signal beam 422 is retro-reflected from the test
15   object 432 and re-injected into its fiber 423. As shown here, the reference beam 424 is not
    retro-reflected through its fiber nor is it recombined collinearly with the signal beam in the
    splitter. Rather, the reference beam is combined non-collinearly with the retro-reflected signal
    beam in free space at location 460. The signal beam 422 light and the reference beam 424 light
    from their respective fibers 422f, 424f are combined on a lens 470. As shown here, the lens 470
20  can provide a collimating function. Hence, the signal and reference beams eminating from their
    respective optical fibers can be collimated by the lens. The wavefront from each of the diverging
    beams can be considered as a non-planar wavefront (e.g. spherical). By incorporating the
    collimating lens 470, it is possible to achieve a linear relationship between movement of the
    object 432 (e.g. eye) corresponding to the sample leg and movement of the fringe pattern on the
25  array detector 490. For example, the linear relationship can be provided in a 1:1 ratio. That is,
    movement of the object results in a corresponding linear movement of the fringe pattern. The
    beat note or spatial period of the fringe pattern 480 can be determined by the angle 8 between
    the combined signal and reference beams. By implementing the lens 470, it is possible to obtain
    a constant interference period across the array detector, regardless of the position of the fringe
30  pattern on the detector. Hence, the location of the fringe pattern is accurate and the resolution
                                                      21

      device is precise, at least partially as a result of the lens. As shown in FIG. 8, various lens
     configurations may be used.
      [0059]     With returning reference to FIG. 4, it can be seen that various time delays may be
     implemented in the system. The interoferometric aspects of OCT techniques can depend on path
  5  differences between reference leg light and sample leg light. Such differences can be expressed
     in terms of time (e.g. delays) or distance (e.g. length). According to some embodiments, where
     differences in time are discussed, it is also understood that differences in length may be similar.
     For example, individual optical fibers having different lengths may provide different amounts of
     time delay due to the difference in propagation duration. Typically, OCT operates where there is
 10  little or no time delay or difference in distance between sample and reference beams. For
     example, OCT may operate where the difference is within a range of a few millimeters. As
     shown here, T1 may refer to a fixed time delay. According to some embodiments, the reference
     leg involves a fixed delay, and the sample leg involves a variable delay. In some cases, a sample
     leg may involve a variable delay in addition to a fixed delay). In some cases, the T1 delay on the
15   sample leg fiber depicted here is fixed. A fixed delay may be provided by a length of fiber
    and/or an air path, which provide no change. According to some embodiments, a localized
    fringe pattern 480 is obtained when the net delay on the reference leg is the same or substantially
    the same as the net delay on the sample leg. Hence, a fringe pattern may result from a narrow
    region or band of delay at or near that equality (e.g. net sample leg delay = net reference leg
20  delay). According to some embodiments, a broadband light source is used for OCT, and the
    light coherently interferes over a distance that is equal to the coherence length. A large
    bandwidth may correspond to a short coherence length. According to some embodiments, the
    depth resolution may be determined by or dependent on the bandwidth of the light source.
    According to some embodiments, a fringe pattern is produced with the delay amount is within
25  the coherence length of the light source. Hence, for example, a fringe pattern may appear within
    a 10 micron band (e.g. plus or minus 5 microns relative to a fixed reference leg delay). Where a
    short coherence length light source is used (e.g. wide or large bandwidth), the fringe pattern may
    be limited to a narrow configuration that can be conveniently localized on a detector. In this
    sense, where one signal beam and one reference beam are used, the configuration can be
30  considered to provide a single signal-reference beam pair configuration. A spatial separation or
    alignment offset between the fibers causes the collimated beams 422, 424 to travel at an angle to
                                                          22

   each other at location 460. The tilt angle 0 operates to produce a time delay between the beams
   422, 424 that depends on transverse location. The beams 422, 424 produce an interference fringe
   or localized fringe pattern 480 transverse to the propagation direction that has high amplitude
   only in a region near where the beam delays are sufficiently equal. Accordingly, a single signal
 5 reference beam pair in an AMOCT system can produce a transverse fringe pattern at a single
   frequency. As discussed elsewhere herein, the angle 0 between the two beams can confer or
   contribute to a particular beat note or spatial period in the interference.
    100601    AMOCT system 400 also includes a detection mechanism 490, such as a linear array
   detector. The detector can be provided with sufficiently small detector spacing, so as to sample
10 the interfering beams along the fringe direction to capture the fringe pattern 480, and thus the
   "echo" signal associated with the signal-reference beam pair. The transverse location of the
   maximum amplitude in the fringe pattern 480 can contain the depth information for the echo
   being detected. The fringe pattern spatial frequency can be determined based on the center
   wavelength of the SLD, the distance between the fibers, and the focal length of the lens.
15  [0061]    In cases where the reference beam 424 is much stronger than the signal beam 422, the
   fringe pattern 480 may reside upon a large DC background caused primarily by the reference
   beam 424. In such cases, the small fringe amplitude can be resolved and also demodulated by
   using a matched filter. This can be accomplished in the Fourier domain and result in a
   demodulated signal that peaks at the time delay corresponding to the depth where the signal
20 beam was reflected or scattered.
   [0062]     According to some embodiments, it is possible to combine multiple signal beams with a
   single reference beam. Where individual signal beams have respective unique carrier
   frequencies, and where different angles are used for individual signal beam, it is possible to
   simultaneously measure fringes from multiple signal-reference pairs by using matched filters
25 tuned to each carrier frequency. Such matched filters may be designed to preferentially transmit
   interference signals at spatial frequencies about a single pair of beams while suppressing those
   from other beam pairs. Because the linear detector can capture both the fringe amplitude and its
   phase, it is also possible to obtain enhanced depth resolution when the AMOCT signal has
   sufficient fidelity. According to some embodiments, AMOCT systems can use the phase
                                                      23

    information and provide depth resolution that is not limited to roughly equal the coherence
    length of the light source.
    [0063]    According to some embodiments, the angle of the signal beam(s) relative to the
   reference beam can be adjusted to approach, but not exceed, the Nyquist frequency of the linear
 5 detector while being sufficiently distinct in spatial frequencies such that the matched filters will
   allow their detection with little crosstalk. In some cases, at this limit, 4 pixels in the detector
   would correspond to a full wave of relative delay between the reference and signal beams. For
   example, a system operated at an SLD wavelength of 1micron and a 8000 element detector
   would have a range span of 8000/4= 2000 microns. Because an AMOCT system can
10 simultaneously sample multiple signal beams, the effective range of an AMOCT system can
   exceed that of some other tomography systems (e.g. spectral domain OCT) with as few as 3
   multiplexed signal beams. According to some embodiments, desirable scanning depths can be
   achieved by using wavelengths between about 1.3 tm and about 1.5 pm.
    [00641    Multiple Signal-Reference Beam Pairs
15  [0065]    FIG. 5 illustrates aspects of angular multiplexed optical coherence tomography
   (AMOCT) systems and methods according to embodiments of the present invention. As
   depicted here, the AMOCT system 500 includes a light source 510. The light source may be
   provided as a single source light mechanism, such as a super luminescent diode (SLD), which
   may be fiber-coupled. In some cases, light from the light source can be coupled into a fiber and
20 split into two beams by a fiber coupler. As shown here, a fiber splitter 520 can be used to direct
   a signal or sample beam along a sample leg 530 toward a test object 532 (such as an eye) and a
   reference beam along a reference leg 540 toward a detector 542 such as an array detector. Here,
   the reference beam is delayed by running the reference beam through a delay mechanism 550.
   For example, the reference beam can be delayed a fixed amount by running the beam through
25 additional fiber length and/or free space. The signal beam 522 is scattered or reflected from the
   test object 532 and re-injected into its fiber 523. The scattered or retro-reflected beam from the
   test object is then passed through a fiber circulator 537, and into a fiber splitter 539 which
   operates to divide the signal beam into multiple signal beams 522a, 522b, and 522c. As shown
   here, the reference beam 524 is not retro-reflected through its fiber nor is it recombined
30 collinearly with a signal beam in the splitter. Rather, the reference beam is combined non
                                                      24

     collinearly with multiple retro-reflected signal beams in free space at location 560. The signal
     beams 522a, 522b, and 522c and the reference beam 524 from their respective fibers are
     combined on a lens 570. In this sense, where multiple signal beams and one reference beam are
     used, the configuration can be considered to provide a multiple signal-reference beam pair
  5  configuration. A spatial separation or alignment offset between the fibers causes the collimated
    beams to travel at an angle to each other at location 560. The beams produce an overlap 580 of
     localized fringe patterns transverse to the propagation direction that has high amplitude only in a
    region near where the beam delays are sufficiently equal. Accordingly, a multiple signal
    reference beam pair configuration in an AMOCT system can produce a complex transverse
10  fringe pattern containing multiple frequencies.
     [0066]     As shown here, the sample leg signal beam can be separated by fiber splitter 539 and
    individual resulting beams processed with different delays (e.g c1, '2, and '3). Hence, different
    net sample delays can be associated with respective location or angular differences relative to the
    reference leg beam 524. As discussed elsewhere herein, an angle between two light beams can
15  contribute to a beat note or interference pattern or period. Here, where individual signal beams
    522a, 522b, and 522c can have their own respective angle with the reference beam 524, it is
    possible to produce multiple beat notes or interference patterns or periods at the detector. For
    example, each signal-reference beam pair may have a corresponding angle, and thus a
    corresponding beat note. Put another way, where there are multiple signal beam fibers (e.g.
20  emanating from splitter 539), and such fibers are at varying angles relative to the reference beam,
    then each signal-reference beam pair can produce a localized fringe pattern having its own
    associated beat note. Accordingly, one or more beat notes can be controlled by adjusting the
    corresponding angles of the signal-reference beam pairs. When considering the combined
    localized fringe patterns on the array detector (e.g. which may be overlapping with one another),
25  it is possible to separate out, extract, or otherwise isolate individual fringe patterns therefrom
    using Fourier or filter techniques. In this way, it is possible to tune into a particular localized
    fringe pattern or channel, where each fringe pattern or channel is associated with a respective
    signal-reference beam pair angle, and where a spatial frequencey of a respective fringe pattern or
    channel is a function of the respective angle. Relatedly, using these techiques it is possible to
30  separate out or isolate interference patterns from one another. Accordingly, embodiments of the
    present invention encompass systems and methods for tuning into a certain beat note or
                                                       25

      associated fringe pattern or spatial period, and evaluating patient tissue at a depth corresponding
      to that beat note or fringe pattern or spatial period. For example, as shown in FIG. 5, the signal
      reference beam pair of 522b-524 corresponds to a tissue depth at or near a posterior portion of
     the crystalline lens, and thus by analyzing the spatial frequency and/or fringe pattern associated
  5  with the 522b-524 beam pair, it is possible to evaluate tissue characteristics of the posterior lens.
     As shown here, it is possible to simultaneously detect multiple localized fringe patterns at the
     array detector. Hence, it is possible to simultaneously analyze patient tissue or related structures
     or interfaces at multiple depths simultaneously, and/or throughout a broad tissue depth range,
      [0067]    As depicted in FIG. 5, it is possible to use different channels to probe at various depths
 10  within the eye, or across a wide depth range within the eye. In some cases, a signal-reference
     beam pair may operate to provide information throughout a depth range of about 5 mm to 10
     mm. The entire depth of the eye may be about 30 mm. Hence, by using such a multiplexed
     approach, which involves the simultaneous detection of multiple localized fringe patterns, each
     associated with a delay and angle, it is possible to evaluate much or all of the eye tissue
 15  simultaneously. For example, evaluation of the anterior cornea can be associated withrl and/or
     the 522a-524 sample-reference angle, evaluation of the posterior lens can be associated with '2
     and/or the 522b-524 sample-reference angle, and evaluation of the retina can be associated with
     T3 and/or the 522c-524 sample-reference angle. In this way, it is possible to provide a system
     having multiple OCT subsystems on a single device, and various channels can be used to
20  evaluate various associated tissue depths.
     [00681     Dual Collection Fiber With Static Focus System
     [00691     FIG. 6 illustrates aspects of angular multiplexed optical coherence tomography
    (AMOCT) systems and methods according to embodiments of the present invention. As
    depicted here, the AMOCT system 600 includes a light source 610. The light source may be
25  provided as a single source light mechanism, such as a super luminescent diode (SLD), which
    may be fiber-coupled. In some cases, light from the light source can be coupled into a fiber and
    split into two beams by a fiber coupler. As shown here, a fiber splitter 620 can be used to direct
    a signal or sample beam along a sample leg 630 toward a test object 632 (such as an eye) and a
    reference beam along a reference leg 640 toward a detector 642 such as an array detector.
30  According to some embodiments, scattered light corresponding to various sections of the eye can
                                                        26

   be collected on two fibers (Fiber L and Fiber -c1) with high efficiency using a static focus system.
   For example, Fiber L can serve to launch a probe beam such that it focuses in the lenticular
   region and collects light scattered therefrom. Further, Fiber i1 and Lens 2 can be positioned to
   efficiently collect light scattered front the cornea and anterior chamber region because very little
 5 light is blocked by Fiber L, Such imaging conditions can provide high spatial resolution. One
   portion of the signal beam retro-reflected from the test object 632 is re-injected into Fiber L.
   Another portion of the signal beam retro-reflected from the test object 632 is re-injected into
   Fiber 11. Accordingly, the signal beam can be divided into multiple signal beams 622a, 622b.
   As shown here, the reference beam 624 is not retro-reflected through its fiber nor is it
10 recombined collinearly with a signal beam in the splitter. Rather, the reference beam is
   combined non-collinearly with multiple retro-reflected signal beams in free space at location
   660. The signal beams 622a, 622b and the reference beam 624 from their respective fibers are
   combined on a lens 670.
   [0070]     As depicted here, the TI fiber light is processed through both lens 1 and lens 2. The -r2
15 fiber light is processed through lens 1 but not lens 2. Often, on the sample side, light returning
   back toward the detector can be scattered by the surfaces or tissues which are being interrogated.
   Hence, such scattered light may provide a weakened light signal. As shown here, light which is
   directed toward the object tissue is focused by lens 1, toward the interrogated location. Using
   lens 1 and lens 2, the returning light can then be collimated and efficiently collected into optical
20 fiber for transmission toward the detector As shown in the example here, light can be focused at
   two depths within the patient tissue, and respective returning light can be collected by two
   different fibers. For example, evaluation of the anterior cornea can be associated with i1 and/or
   the 622a-624 sample-reference angle, and evaluation of the posterior lens can be associated with
   -r2 and/or the 622b-624 sample-reference angle. In this way, it is possible to efficiently collect
25 and process light associated with multiple depths within the patient tissue, thus providing an
   extend depth range. Although FIG. 6 depicts the use of two different fibers for two different
   tissue depths, it is understood that multiple different fibers (e.g. more than two) can be used for
   evaluating multiple tissue depths (e.g. more than two). For example, a third fiber could be used
   to evaluate retinal tissue of the eye. In this way, it is possible to efficiently collect and process
30 light associated with an extended depth range throughout the eye (or tissue or anatomy) without
   the use of a scanning system that involves scanning a focus to different depths throughout the
                                                       27

     tissue or anatomy. That is, light can be efficiently collected and processed for each individual
     channel, where a particular channel is associated with a particular depth or depth range
     [00711     Multi-Point
     10072]     FIG. 7 illustrates aspects of angular multiplexed optical coherence tomography
  5  (AMOCT) systems and methods according to embodiments of the present invention. As
     depicted here, the AN4OCT system 700 includes a light source 710. The light source may be
     provided as a single source light mechanism, such as a super luminescent diode (SLD), which
     may be fiber-coupled. In some cases, light from the light source can be coupled into a fiber and
     split into two beams by a fiber coupler. As shown here, a fiber splitter 720 can be used to direct
 10  one or more signal or sample beams along a sample leg 730 toward a test object 732 (such as an
     eye) and a reference beam along a reference leg 740 toward a detector 742 such as an array
     detector. Here, the reference beam is delayed by running the reference beam through a delay
    mechanism 750. For example, the reference beam can be delayed a fixed amount by running the
    beam through additional fiber length and/or free space. Individual signal beams 722a, 722b,
15  722c can be scattered or retro-reflected from the test object 732 and re-injected into or otherwise
    directed into respective fibers. As shown here, the reference beam 724 is not retro-reflected
    through its fiber nor is it recombined collinearly with a signal beam in the splitter. Rather, the
    reference beam is combined non-collinearly with multiple retro-reflected signal beams 722a,
    722b, 722c in free space at location 560. The signal beams 722a, 722b, and 722c and the
20  reference beam 724 from their respective fibers are combined on a lens 770. The beams produce
    an overlap 780 of localized fringe patterns transverse to the propagation direction that has high
    amplitude only in a region near where the beam delays are sufficiently equal. Hence, multiple
    signal-reference beam pairs can probe different transverse locations simultaneously, According
    to some embodiments, an AMOCT system can involve signal beams generated from different
25  return beams, as in different locations on the cornea, but with small or no delays between them.
    Such configurations can be used for multipoint corneal topography and simultaneous
    pachymetry. According to some embodiments, signal beam origins from various embodiments
    can be combined to enable biometric and multipoint CT and pachymetry.
    [0073]     According to some embodiments, a detection mechanism such as a linear array detector
30  may have multiple (e.g. up to four or more) linear arrays in each package. Such arrays may be
                                                       28

     similar to those used in color scanner applications. The use of additional individual linear arrays
     can operate to provide additional channels of detection.
     100741      In the embodiment depicted in FIG. 7, the sample leg involves multiple signal beams
     722a, 722b, 722c at respective angles to object or patient anatomy. Each of the associated signal
  5  beams have a common delay (e.g. -I). Hence, it is possible to evaluate tissue at a certain
     distance (e.g. across a common depth range for each channel), albeit at different locations on the
     patient tissue. For example, it is possible to probe or evaluate the cornea, at a given common
     depth, at different locations (e.g. three locations) across the cornea. In some cases, it is possible
     to measure relative positions of different parts of the cornea. According to the embodiment
 10  shown here, it is possible to obtain corneal topography information, such as shape information
     for the corneal surface. In some cases, it is possible to measure or evaluate a common tissue or
     structure at different locations thereof. For example, using this technique it is possible to
     evaluate the iris at three different locations. Accordingly, this technique can be used for
    measuring or evaluating the tilt of the eye, including real-time measurements. In some cases,
 15 this technique can be used to implement an eye tracking device or method (e.g. six axis eye
    tracker), whereby the eye position and/or tilt can be evaluated, and used to determine laser
    ablation pulse delivery protocols.
     [00751     Sphero-Cylindrical Optical System and Linear Detector
    t0076]      FIG. 8 depicts aspects of angular multiplexed optical coherence tomography
20  (AMOCT) systems and methods according to embodiments of the present invention. As shown
    here, a sphero-cylindrical optical system can provide a good match with a linear detector.
     [0077]     In use, the lens configuration shown here can operate to focus light so that it impinged
    upon the array detector (e.g. linear CCD) in a concentrated manner. The detector shown here is a
    line detector configuration, with a short height (side view) and a long width (top view). Use of
25  the cylindrical lens allows a large amount of light to be concentrated on the detector, thus
    providing a highly efficient optical system. As shown in the side view, light emanating from the
    test object fiber and reference leg fiber combines to fill the spherical achromat lens, and is then
    focused tightly by the cylindrical achromat lens onto the thin linear CCD detector. As seen in
    the top view, the object and reference fibers are angularly displaced from one another, and th
30  elight is combined to fill the spherical achromat lens. However, the cylindrical achromat does
                                                        29

     not operate to diminish the width of the combined beam in the same way that it operates to
     diminish the height of the combined beam. Accordingly, use of the cylindrical achromat allows
     the system to direct a large percentage of the combined light beams at the linear CCD,
     [0078]     Simulations
  5  [0079]     The Laboratory Virtual Instrumentation Engineering Workbench (LabVIEW) a system
     design platform and development environment was used to simulate aspects of AMOCT. In
     some instances, an interference pattern was calculated for multiple beams. In some instances,
     individual beams were assigned a respective power, angle, and relative delay. In some instances,
    matched filters were created for individual signal-reference pairs. In some instances, a combined
10  detector signal was Fourier analyzed to extract the signals on each "channel".
     [00801    FIG. 9 depicts an exemplary detector signal simulation with seven angularly combined
    signals at 50 gm delay increments,
     [0081]    In the simulation depicted in FIG. 10, individual signals have a carrier frequency
    defined by their respective angle with the reference beam. Here the beam angle is 22.2mR
15  [0082]     As illustrated in the simulation of FIG. 11, Fourier analysis of the signal can use filters
    tuned to individual carrier frequencies to resolve the individual signals. As shown here, various
    spatial frequencies can be evaluated. According to some embodiments, a spatial period or beat
    note can refer to an interference period or a period of an interference pattern. For example, when
    considering an interference pattern with alternating bright and dark sections, the spatial period
20  can refer to the separation between adjacent bright sections (or between adjacent dark sections).
    In some cases, a spatial period can be considered as a difference or modulation between two
    combined closely related frequencies. For example, the spatial period can correspond to a
    modulation of intensity as measured by a detector.
    [0083]     In the simulation embodiment of FIG. 12, it can be seen that individual AMOCT
25  signals are resolved with high fidelity.
    [0084]    FIG. 13 shows an exemplary simulation, where individual signals (e.g. seven) may
    overlap completely on the detector, thus leading to a complex fringe pattern.
                                                      30

      [00851   As shown in the FIG. 14 simulation, Fourier analysis of the complex fringe pattern can
     allow the individual signals to be resolved.
      [0086]   As illustrated by these simulations and as discussed elsewhere herein, AMOCT
     techniques can provide simultaneous detection of multiple signals on a single detector, and lower
  5  implementation costs as compared with other OCT technologies. Further, AMOCT
     embodiments can be implemented without using gratings, moving parts, PZT elements,
     sophisticated tunable light sources, or other features which may be associated with existing OCT
     technologies. What is more, AMOCT implementations can involve multiple signals configured
     to sample a large depth range or multiple selected smaller ranges. Still further, with certain
 10  AMOCT embodiments, there is no sign ambiguity in the tomography signal regarding the sign of
     the delay (e.g. positive and negative delays are handled). As discussed elsewhere herein, it is
     possible to use AMOCT to obtain a large effective depth range useful in simultaneous anterior
     chamber depth (ACD), lens thickness, axial length, or other optical feature measurements.
     10087]    AMOCT systems and methods can be used in a variety of applications. For example,
15   AMOCT can be incorporated with the use of femtosecond laser systems and methods for ocular
     surgery. Further, it is possible to use AMOCT techniques to locate the anterior corneal surface
    and reference it directly. Relatedly, it is possible to use AMOCT techniques to replace costly
    disposable standoff optics with lower cost, higher tolerance optics. Still further, it is possible to
    use AMOCT techniques to detect the crystal lens anterior or posterior surfaces for lens surgery.
20  What is more, retinal surgeries associated with retinal re-attachment could be monitored in real
    time at multiple points during the surgery using AMOCT systems and methods.
     [0088]    Arrayed Angle-multiplexed Optical Coherence Tomography (AAMOCT)
     100891    As discussed elsewhere herein angle-multiplexed OCT (AMOCT) can be used to
    acquire depth data from multiple regions simultaneously in a single cycle with a single beam,
25  using light of a wavelength amenable to silicon detectors. In some cases, AMOCT techniques
    may involve scanning procedures to obtain two dimensional b-scans or three dimensional
    volumes.
    [0090]     Arrayed angle multiplexed OCT (AAMOCT) systems and methods can involve the
    integration of multiple interrogation beams into an AMOCT scheme. For example, a one
                                                      31

    dimensional array can be used to acquire a b-scan in one acquisition cycle, and a two
    dimensional array can be used to obtain a volumetric image in one cycle. This increased
    measurement throughput can allow for near real-time observations to be made. In some
   instances, the increased measurement throughput can enable the extraction of and use of
 5 aberrometiy data. Due to the simultaneity of data acquisition across large volumes of the eye,
   AAMOCT is particularly suitable for applications in comeal topography, pachymetry, cataract
    characterization and LCS planning, intraocular lens treatment planning, eye tracking, range
   finding, iris registration, and the like.
    [00911   As depicted in FIG. 15, an exemplary AAMOCT system 1500 may include an
10 integrated optical circuit (1OC) that includes micro-arrayed objective lenses, a waveguide, and
   optical circulators. Such An IOC device can be connected via a fiber bundle to an angle
   multiplexor, conditioning optics, and a CCD line detector. In some aspects, the system depicted
   in FIG. 15 can operate in an analogous way to the system depicted in FIG. 7.
   [00921    According to some embodiments, an AAMOCT system may include a one dimensional
15 integrated optical circuit, optionally in combination with additional scanning optomechanics to
   obtain volumetric data. In some embodiments, an AAMOCT system may include a two
   dimensional integrated optical circuit. According to some embodiments, an AAMOCT system
   may include the use of scanning optomechanics, for example if a single-spot sample density does
   not provide a sufficiently high spatial resolution for volumetric reconstruction. According to
20 some embodiments, AAMOCT systems and methods may involve the incorporation of phase
   delays at one or more locations between reference and sample beams, for example in the
   integrated optical circuit, the fiber bundle, and/or the multiplexor.
   100931    According to some AAMOCT embodiments, the spatial resolution achieved by the
   system or method may be based on the based on the multitude of lenslets used. In some cases,
25 each lenslet may operate to provide a separate channel, for the angle multiplexing. In this way, it
   is possible to interrogate multiple portions or spatial locations throughout the ocular structure,
   including the cornea, lens, retina, and the like. Each individual lenslet of the lenslet array can
   provide a respective beam. Exemplary lenslet arrays can include any desired number of lenslets,
   for example, 20, 100, or 1000 lenslets, where each lenslet provides a corresponding channel. In
30 some cases, the system can operate to direct multiple sample beams toward the eye, such that
                                                     32

    different beams approach the eye at different angles (e.g. relative to an axis of the eye, such as
    the optical axis). In some cases, different beams can approach the eye at the same angle. The
    various sample beam angles impinging upon the eye can be based on the configuration of the
    lenslet array and/or the angle of the light which is directed into the lenslet array for transmission
 5  therethrough.
    [0094]     As shown in FIG. 15, the sample beams directed toward the eye are more or less
    parallel to one another, such that individual beams are directed to different portions of the eye.
    In some cases, one or more sample beams may be angularly offset from one another. In some
    cases, the system provides scattered light corresponding to various tissue locations, or various
10  tissue or anatomical structure interfaces, and one or more of the sample beams may or may not
    not have a normal incidence relative to the corneal surface. According to some embodiments,
   there may be variation in the angle of incidence for individual sample beams propagated from
    the lenslet array toward the eye. In some cases, individual lenslets of the array may operate to
    focus light. In some cases, individual lenslets of the array may operate to collimate light. In
15  some cases, one or more lenslets may have a common focal length. In some cases, individual
    lenslets may have different focal lengths. Various related combinations and permutations of
   lenslet array configurations (including individual lenslet size, spacing, optical power, position,
   and the like) are encompassed by embodiments of the present invention. In some cases, one or
   move individual lenslets may operate to wealky focus light across a broad depth of tissue or
20 anatomy. In some cases, two or more individual lenslets may operate to focus light toward a
   common interrogation position, area, or depth range. In some cases, individual lenslets may
   operate to interrogate respective depth positions or ranges.
    [0095J    According to some embodiments, one or move individual lenslets can have diameters at
   micron level dimensions. For example, an individual lenslet may have a diameter of about 100
25 microns. Larger and smaller lenslet sizes are also contemplated. According to some
   embodiments, a fiber optic array can be used to direct light toward the lenslet array. Often, such
   an array of fibers is offset from the lenslet array at a certain distance. For example, the fiber
   array can be disposed one focal length away from the lenslet array. In some cases, by varying
   the distance or orientation between the fiber array and the lenslet array, it is possible to change
30 the focus provided by the system. As shown here, multiple sample-reference beam pairs are
                                                      33

     angularly multiplexed at the detector mechanism. The embodiment depicted in FIG. 15 is well
     suited for use in obtaining spatially resolved measurements across the eye at multiple positions
     and/or depths simultaneously, without the use of a scanning mechanism (e.g. system involving
     galvanometrically controlled mirrors to provide dynamic angle adjustments). In some
  5  embodiments, the lenslet array may be a two dimensional array, for example a 10 x 10 lenslet
     array, a 100 x 100 lenslet array, or the like. In some cases, a lenslet array may provide individual
     lenslets that can be used to deliver interrogation beams across the entire diameter or area of the
     eye. In this way, it is possible to interrogate multiple points or positions at one time, and to
     obtain a full snapshot of the eye at all locations therethrough. Often, such systems may provide
10   spatial resolution measurements involving an accuracy or precision on the order of 20 microns.
     [0096]    AMOCT and AAMOCT techniques as disclosed herein are well suited for use in
    ophthahnological applications, as well as optical metrology, and subcutaneous and vascular
     inspection applications, as well as subsurface interrogation of any of a variety of materials,
    substances, or structures.
15   [0097]    The methods and apparatuses of the present invention may be provided in one or more
    kits for such use. The kits may comprise a system for evaluating an optical feature of a patient
    eye, and instructions for use. Optionally, such kits may further include any of the other system
    components described in relation to the present invention and any other materials or items
    relevant to the present invention. The instructions for use can set forth any of the methods as
20  described above.
     [0098]    Each of the calculations or operations described herein may be performed using a
    computer or other processor having hardware, software, and/or firmware. The various method
    steps may be performed by modules, and the modules may comprise any of a wide variety of
    digital and/or analog data processing hardware and/or software arranged to perform the method
25  steps described herein. The modules optionally comprising data processing hardware adapted to
    perform one or more of these steps by having appropriate machine programming code associated
    therewith, the modules for two or more steps (or portions of two or more steps) being integrated
    into a single processor board or separated into different processor boards in any of a wide variety
    of integrated and/or distributed processing architectures. These methods and systems will often
30  employ a tangible media embodying machine-readable code with instructions for performing the
                                                        34

   method steps described above. Suitable tangible media may comprise a memory (including a
   volatile memory and/or a non-volatile memory), a storage media (such as a magnetic recording
   on a floppy disk, a hard disk, a tape, or the like; on an optical memory such as a CD, a CD-R/W,
   a CD-ROM, a DVD, or the like; or any other digital or analog storage media), or the like.
 5 100991     All patents, patent publications, patent applications, journal articles, books, technical
   references, and the like discussed in the instant disclosure are incorporated herein by reference in
   their entirety for all purposes.
   [01001     While the above provides a full and complete disclosure of the preferred embodiments
   of the present invention, various modifications, alternate constructions and equivalents may be
10 employed as desired. Therefore, the above description and illustrations should not be construed
   as limiting the invention, which can be defined by the appended claims.
                                                     35

 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        I.        An angle multiplexed optical coherence tomography system for evaluating an eye
 of a patient, the system comprising:
        a light source;
        an optical assembly for obtaining a plurality of sample beams which have passed through
 the eye of the patient and which correspond to respective anatomical locations of the eye of the
 patient, wherein individual sample beams are associated with respective non-zero angles relative
 to a reference beam to provide individual unique interference patterns having respective
 characteristics that depend on the non-zero angles; and
         a detection mechanism that detects the individual unique interference patterns respectively
 provided by the plurality of sample beams, for simultaneous evaluation of the anatomical
 locations.
        2. The system according to claim 1, wherein individual sample beams provide respective
 unique interference spatial periods at the detection mechanism.
        3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the unique interference spatial periods are
 adjustable in response to changes in respective sample beam angles relative to the reference
 beam.
       4. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising one or
 more collimation lenses that direct combined sample-reference beam pairs toward the detection
mechanism.
       5. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the system provides
an accuracy for range finding on the order of 10 microns.
       6. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a filter
assembly that transmits interference signals at spatial frequencies about a first sample-reference
beam pair and suppresses interference signals at spatial frequencies about a second sample
reference beam pair.
       7. An optical coherence tomography system for evaluating an eye of a patient, the system
comprising:
                                                  36

        a light source;
        an optical assembly for obtaining a sample beam which has passed through the eye of the
 patient and which corresponds to an anatomical location of the eye of the patient, wherein the
 sample beam is associated with a non-zero angle relative to a reference beam to provide an
 interference pattern having characteristics that depend on the non-zero angle; and
        a lens that receives the sample beam and reference beam as a pair of beams combined at
the angle, and directs the combined sample-reference beam pair toward a detection mechanism
that detects the interference pattern provided by the beam pair for evaluation of the anatomical
 location.
        8. An angle multiplexed optical coherence tomography method for evaluating an eye of a
patient, comprising:
        obtaining a plurality of sample beams which have passed through the eye of the patient and
which correspond to respective anatomical locations of the eye of the patient, wherein individual
sample beams are associated with respective non-zero angles relative to a reference beam to
provide individual unique interference patterns having respective characteristics that depend on
the non-zero angles;
       detecting the individual unique interference patterns respectively provided by the plurality
of sample beams; and
       evaluating the eye of the patient based on the detected interference patterns.
       9. The method according to claim 8, further comprising positioning a corneal topography
system relative to the eye based on the evaluation, and obtaining a corneal topography
measurement of the eye.
        10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the topography measurement is performed
without aligning the corneal topography system using corneal topography fiducials.
       11. An angle multiplexed optical coherence tomography system for evaluating an eye
of a patient, the system comprising:
       a light source;
                                                  37

         an optical assembly for obtaining a reference beam and obtaining a plurality of sample
  beams which have passed through the eye of the patient and which correspond to respective
  anatomical locations of the eye of the patient; and
         a detection mechanism having a receiving surface,
        wherein the optical assembly directs the plurality of sample beams and the reference
  beam to be incident on the receiving surface of the detector mechanism at respective
  incident angles that are different from one another, and wherein the detection mechanism
  detects individual unique interference patterns respectively provided by the plurality of
  sample beams, for simultaneous evaluation of the anatomical locations.
         12. The system according to claim 11, wherein individual sample beams provide
 respective unique interference spatial periods at the detection mechanism.
        13. The system according to claim 12, wherein the unique interference spatial periods
 are adjustable in response to changes in respective sample beam incident angles relative to
 the reference beam.
        14. The system according to any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein the optical assembly
 includes one or more collimation lenses that direct combined sample-reference beam pairs
 toward the detection mechanism.
        15. The system according to any one of claims 11 to 14, wherein the system provides
 an accuracy for range finding on the order of 10 microns.
        16. The system according to any one of claims 11 to 15, further comprising a filter
assembly that transmits interference signals at spatial frequencies about a first sample
reference beam pair and suppresses interference signals at spatial frequencies about a second
sample-reference beam pair.
        17. An optical coherence tomography system for evaluating an eye of a patient,
the system comprising:
       a light source; and
                                                 38

        an optical assembly for obtaining a reference beam and obtaining a sample beam
 which has passed through the eye of the patient and which corresponds to an anatomical
 location of the eye of the patient, including a lens that receives the sample beam and the
 reference beam as a pair of beams combined at a non-zero angle relative to each other, and
 directs the combined sample-reference beam pair toward a detection mechanism that
 detects an interference pattern provided by the beam pair for evaluation of the anatomical
 location.
        18. An angle multiplexed optical coherence tomography method for evaluating an eye
 of a patient, comprising:
       obtaining a reference beam;
       obtaining a plurality of sample beams which have passed through the eye of the
patient and which correspond to respective anatomical locations of the eye of the patient;
       directing the plurality of sample beams and the reference beam to be incident on a
receiving surface of a detector mechanism at respective incident angles that are different from
one another;
         detecting, by the detector mechanism, individual unique interference patterns
  respectively provided by the plurality of sample beams; and
       evaluating the eye of the patient based on the detected interference patterns.
       19. The method according to claim 1 8, further comprising positioning a corneal
topography system relative to the eye based on the evaluation, and obtaining a corneal
topography measurement of the eye.
       20. The method according to claim 1 9, wherein the topography measurement is
performed without aligning the corneal topography system using corneal topography
fiducials.
                                                39

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
