                                      ABSTRACT
The technology described herein relates to pinacolyl boronate substituted stilbenes for
the treatment of cancers, e.g. cancers expressing abnormally high levels of SREBP 1.

WO 2014/004054                                                        PCT/US2013/044887
                                          8/12
                            20-                            E    MSO
                                                             UBF1 75
                         010
                         ~12
                                10%0        0%      5%LF
                                FIG. 5A
 1D02% DMSO10                                      BF1 75                       p1.807E-06
                                                                                p_
          20%7.27%                       3.69%              15.5%        1-16
 103-                             103-489            j       .2
 100                              1020A
       1011    12 ....    1
                      j ...           100    101    1'l02- 103    in4         0 DMSO    BF175
            ANNEXINYV                            ANNEXIN V
                                FIG., 5B

       COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR TREATING CANCER WITH ABERRANT
                                         LIPOGENIC SIGNALING
                        CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       This application claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/663,875 filed June 25, 2012, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their
entirety.
                                            SEQUENCE LISTING
[0002]       The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted in ASCII
format via EFS-Web and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy, created on
June 7, 2013, is named 003252-071731-PCTSL.txt and is 104,058 bytes in size.
                                        TECHNOLOGICAL FIELD
[0003]           Embodiments of the technology described herein relate to treatments for cancer.
                                               BACKGROUND
[0004]           A hallmark of rapidly proliferating tumor cells is increased lipogenesis, i.e. increased
production of lipids. Although most normal cells acquire the bulk of their fatty acids from circulation,
tumor cells synthesize more than 90% of their own required lipids. The perturbed lipogenesis regulation
of cancer cells thus offers targets for the development of new cancer therapies.
[0005]           The regulation of lipogenesis in relation to cancer is also of importance due to the link
between obesity and cancer. For example, epidemiological studies have identified obesity as the most
common risk factor for endometrial cancer. Obese women have a 2-4 times greater risk of developing
endometrial cancer compared to women of normal weight. As the number of people affected by obesity
is expectedly growing, particularly in developing countries, endometrial cancer will continue to be a
serious public health problem.
                                                 SUMMARY
[0006]           Therapies that can target the aberrant lipogenesis of tumor cells and/or cells predisposed
to become tumor cells will be of use in treating and preventing, e.g., the growing concern of endometrial
cancer. Embodiments of the technology described herein are based on the inventors' discovery that
pinacolyl boronate substituted stilbenes inhibit sterol regulatory binding protein 1 (SREBPI) and can be
used to treat cancers expressing abnormally high levels of SREBP .
[0007]           Accordingly, in one aspect, provided herein are compounds which inibit SREBP1. In
some embodiments, the compounds can be selected from the group consisting of:
                                                       1

               -0   /0~   ~/  /     /~~~\/              /\ /OH
           ,B          B~
  -     BF-175      0'                        0 G BF-102
                                           0 2N
              02 N
       /\ /       \       NO2   B0    /B~
            00 2 N                         N
       OO
B                               B__
                                  B
                                 0o
    to                  0

                                                                                         OH
             O,-                HO        OH                                   O     OH
        B
                    0B                                                         \ rB
                                          0                    0     -                          0-O
                    0                             B                                          B
                                                                                              /0
                                       IB
                                                           0and        B
[0008]           In some embodiments, the compounds can be selected from the group consisting of:
        B                               \                          OH
      0B   /                           0-            BF-102
                                                              0 2N
     O B/     7                  NO 2         0B                         NO 2
         0                                      B
                       02 N
                                 NO  2
                                               B
        B/
          00            2N                                   \\N
        B                        O           0B
                                             0                 00
                                                   3

*B                B
     B              B
           B   OH      B0
t  B         OH        BC OH
                      4
       -C,

                                                                      -0   %     _
                    _B                         \ /    \                     B
          B
                                    O
        0                         B\\                      B             0B                 B\'
                                    0                                                       B
                                                             0                                0
              _
                                                 0\
                   0                            B        and           B
[0009]          In some embodiments, the compounds can be selected from the group consisting of:
         B                   0\        _\
                                                                                             0
                       5       B                                B             /            NO2
-0' B G          BF-175      0                                       \/
                       0 2N
         B  0N0            \     NO  2
                       02 N
         B\                     NO2          B
                o0      2                                               0
         BB
       ,oB c-                    0         0"B-
                                             B                           /
         B                                   B
                                               - 51

                                 B__
                                            B
                                          0/B
                                                                                   OH
                               0HB B                  OH0                          OH
             /B-/
               0                                                     B                 B
         0                    \IB                                                      B\\\
                                                   0and        0
[0010]     In some embodiments, the compounds can be selected from the group consisting of:
        0B                         0 B                        NO2
       O                           0
                  02 N                                0 2N
                                         B/w                      NO2
                           NO  2       o
        B/
        B/                             0              02 N
                                              6

B
                   B   -c
       /-b \/     ,BC                  /
         01               00
oB                        B
               /           B
                                              OH
   to~        0_t
                                 'Bc     __    0/
                            tB
 B                    OH
                  0 OHH
                             7Ot     /      /

                            -0
                            -/o          /\\/                          \
                 0                                  O-                       O
                         B/
             S_ \/         0O BB                 B     _        _
                                    and
[0011]           In one aspect, the technology described herein relates to a method of treating cancer in a
subject, the method comprising administering to the subject an inhibitor of sterol regulatory binding
protein 1 (SREBP1) as described herein. In some embodiments, the method can further comprise a first
step of selecting a subject having cancer cells which express abnormal levels of sterol regulatory binding
protein 1 (SREBP1). In some embodiments, the cells which express abnormal levels of sterol regulatory
binding protein 1 (SREBP1) can be cells which have abnormal levels of SREBP1 polypeptide.
[0012]           In some embodiments, the method can further comprise a first step of selecting a subject
having cancer cells which express abnormal amounts of Erb2. In some embodiments, the method can
further comprise a first step of selecting a subject having cancer cells which express abnormal amounts of
at least one gene selected from the group consisting of:FASN, SCD1 or ACLY.
[0013]           In some embodiments, the subject can have an endometrial cancer. In some
embodiments, the cancer can be selected from the group consisting of: prostate cancer; breast cancer;
colorectal cancer; colorectal carcinoma; hepatocarcinoma; endometrial adenocarcinoma; uterine cancer;
leukemia: lung cancer; central nervous system cancer; melanoma; ovarian cancer; renal cancer; and
pancreatic cancer.
[0014]           In one aspect, the technology described herein relates to a pharmaceutical composition
comprising an inhibitor of SREBP1 as described herein. In some embodiments, the composition can
further comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
[0015]           In one aspect, the technology described herein relates to the use of an inhibitor of sterol
regulatory binding protein 1 (SREBP1) to treat cancer. In some embodiments, the cancer can be
comprised of cells expressing abnormal levels of sterol regulatory binding protein 1 (SREBP1). In some
embodiments, the cells which express abnormal levels of sterol regulatory binding protein 1 (SREBP 1)
can be cells which have abnormal levels of SREBP I polypeptide.
[0016]           In some embodiments. the cancer can be comprised of cells expressing abnormal
amounts of Erb2. In some embodiments, the cancer can be comprised of cells expressing abnormal
amounts of at least one gene selected from the group consisting of: FASN, SCD 1 or ACLY.
                                                         8

[0017]             In some embodiments, the cancer can be an endometrial cancer. In some embodiments,
the cancer can be selected from the group consisting of: prostate cancer; breast cancer; colorectal cancer:
colorectal carcinoma; hepatocarcinoma; endometrial adenocarcinoma; uterine cancer; leukemia; lung
cancer; central nervous system cancer; melanoma; ovarian cancer; renal cancer; and pancreatic cancer.
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0018]             Figures lA-1B demonstrate SREBP1 expression in endometrial cancer (EC) determined
by IHC. Figure IA depicts boxplots of IHC staining score for SREBP1 in normal tissue and endometrial
cancer. Figure 1B depicts a graph of quantitative RT-PCR analysis of mRNA abundance of lipogenic
genes including SREBPla, SREBP]c, SREBP2., and SCD1. The relative expression levels of lipogenic
gene were calculated as fold change compared to normal where the mRNA abundance was set as 1.
[0019]             Figures 2A-2F demonstrate SREBPl is required for expression of lipogenic genes, cell
proliferation, and cell migration in endometrial cancer cells. (Figure 2A). Western blot (WB) analysis of
lipogenic gene expression in commonly used endometrial cancer cell lines. Actin serves as protein
loading control. (Figure 2B). Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of mRNA abundance of SREBPIa and
SREBPl c in endometrial cancer cells. RNA abundance was shown as fold change relative to that in
ECC-1 cells. (Figure 2C). AN3-CA cells were transiently transfected with shRNA targeting human
SREBPl (shSREBP1). The cells stably expressing shSREBP1 were selected by antibiotics. WB showed
reduced protein expression of SREBP 1. (Figure 2D). Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of mRNA abundance
of SREBPla and its target genes including FASN and SCDI. (Figure 2E). AN3-CA cells knockdown of
endogenous SREBP1 are partially defective for cell growth. Cellular growth was determined by counting
the cells at different time points. (Figure 2F) Boyden chamber assays were performed to determine the
cell migration ability. Transwell assays were performed to determine cell migration. 1x10 5 cells were
seeded in upper chamber. After 6 hrs, the medium in upper chamber was replaced with serum-free
medium. The lower chamber contains medium supplemented with 10% FBS which serves as chemo
attractant. 48 hrs post cell seeding, cells that migrate across the pore were counted and plotted.
[00201             Figures 3A-3E demonstrate pharmacological inhibition by BF175 represses lipid
formation and lipogenic gene expression. (Figure 3A). Drosophila larvae fed with BF175. The fat body
was separated and stained with Oil-Red 0. Signaling was quantified. (Figure 3B). AN3-CA cells were
treated with increasing doses of BF175. Cells were lysed after 24 hrs and then subjected to Western blot
to detect the protein abundance of SREBP1 and its target genes. GDI served as protein loading control.
(Figure 3C). AN3-CA cells were treated with increasing doses of BF175 as indicated. Cells were lysed
after 24 hrs and then subjected to qRT-PCR to detect the mRNA expression of SREBP1 and its target
genes as indicated. (Figure 3D, 3E). FASN (Figure 3D) and Scd (Figure 3E) promoter-driven luciferase
reporter activity was included as surrogate measure of SREBP1 transcriptional activity. HEK 293T cells
transfected with reporter plasmid together with a vector encoding nSREBP1 were treated with increasing
doses of BF175.
[0021]             Figures 4A-4C demonstrate that cellular proliferation is repressed by BF175 in SREBP1
expressing cells. (Figure 4A). Endometrial cancer cells were seeded 24 hrs prior to treatment with
                                                         9

increasing doses of BF175. 48 hrs post treatment, cells were subjected to MTT assays to determine the
cell viability. BF175 significantly represses the proliferation of RL95-2 and AN3-CA cells, where
SREBP1 expression is relatively high. (Figure 4B). 5x10 5 cells were seeded per well in 6-well plate and
treated with increased dose of BF175. The cell number was counted 48 hrs post-treatment. (Figure 4C).
AN3-CA cells were starved with serum-free medium and released by adding 10% serum to the medium
in the presence of BrdU. Cells were either treated with BF175 or vehicle control. The BrdU was stained
after 6 hrs and BrdU-positive cells were counted.
[0022]            Figures 5A-5B demonstrate that BF175 induces cell death. (Figure 5A). AC3-CA cells
were seeded 24 hrs prior to treatment with increased dose of BF175 for 48 hrs. Cells were subjected to
flow cytometry assays to determine the percentage of apoptotic cell death (cells in sub-GI phase),
(Figure 5B).
[0023]            Figures 6A-6D demonstrate that BF175 targets SREBPl and inhibits SREBP1-depedent
gene transcription. (6A, 6C). Schematic maps of luciferase reporters driven by SREBP1 promoters. (6B,
6D). AN3-CA cells were transiently transfected with SREBP1 promoter reporter plasmids and treated
with increasing doses of BF175 for 24 hrs before the luciferase activity was measured.
[0024]            Figure 7 depicts a schematic of SREBP 1-related pathways in lipogenesis.
[0025]            Figure 8 depicts a mean graph of the percent growth of cells treated with BF175 when
compared to control cells.
                                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0026]            Embodiments of the technology described herein are based on the discovery that
compunds as described herein can inhibit sterol regulatory binding protein 1 (SREBP1),. a gene which is
upregulated in certain cancers, e.g. endometrial cancers, and which thereby contributes to the increased
level of lipogenesis displayed by those cancers. Accordingly, provided herein are compositions and
methods relating to the treatment of cancers by administering SREBP1 inhibitors. In some embodiments,
the cancer is an endometrial cancer. In some embodiments, the cancer is comprised of cells which
express abnormal levels of SREBP1.
[0027]            For convenience, certain terms employed herein, in the specification, examples and
appended claims are collected here. Unless stated otherwise, or implicit from context, the following
terms and phrases include the meanings provided below. Unless explicitly stated otherwise, or apparent
from context, the terms and phrases below do not exclude the meaning that the term or phrase has
acquired in the art to which it pertains. The definitions are provided to aid in describing particular
embodiments, and are not intended to limit the claimed invention, because the scope of the invention is
limited only by the claims. Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have
the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention
belongs.
[0028]            The terms "decrease," "reduce," "reduced", "reduction" , "decrease," and "inhibit" are all
used herein generally to mean a decrease by a statistically significant amount relative to a reference.
However, for avoidance of doubt, "reduce," "reduction" or "decrease" or "inhibit" typically means a
                                                       10

decrease by at least 10% as compared to a reference and can include, for example, a decrease by at least
about 20%, at least about 25%, at least about 30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least about
45%, at least about 50%, at least about 55%, at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at least about 70%,
at least about 75%., at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least
about 98%, at least about 99% , up to and including, for example, the complete absence of the given
entity or parameter as compared to the reference, or any decrease between 10-99% as compared to the
absence of a given treatment.
[0029]            The terms "increase" ,"increased" or "enhance" or "activate" are all used herein to
generally mean an increase by a statically significant amount; for the avoidance of doubt, the terms
"increased", "increase" or "enhance" or "activate" typically means an increase of at least 10% as
compared to a reference, for example an increase of at least about 20%, or at least about 30%, or at least
about 40%, or at least about 50%, or at least about 60%, or at least about 70%, or at least about 80%, or
at least about 90%, or up to and including a 100% increase or any increase between 10-100% as
compared to a reference, or at least about a 2-fold, or at least about a 3-fold, or at least about a 4-fold, or
at least about a 5-fold or at least about a 10-fold increase, or any increase between 2-fold and 10-fold or
greater as compared to a reference.
[0030]            The term "biological sample" as used herein denotes a sample taken or isolated from a
biological organism, e.g., cancer biopsy sample, blood sample, cell lysate, a homogenate of a tissue
sample from a subject, or a fluid sample from a subject. Exemplary biological samples include, but are
not limited to, cancer tissue biopsies or blood and/or serum samples. In some embodiments, the sample
is from a resection, biopsy, or core needle biopsy. In addition, fine needle aspirate samples can be used.
In some embodiments, samples can be either paraffin-embedded or frozen tissue. The term "biological
sample" can also include untreated or pretreated (or pre-processed) biological samples. In some
embodiments, the biological sample can be an untreated biological sample. As used herein, the phrase
"untreated biological sample" refers to a biological sample that has not had any prior sample pre
treatment except for dilution and/or suspension in a solution. Exemplary methods for treating a biological
sample include, but are not limited to, centrifugation, filtration, sonication, homogenization, heating,
freezing and thawing, and any combinations thereof. The skilled practitioner is aware of methods and
processes appropriate for pre-processing of biological samples required for determination of levels of
polypeptides or nucleotides as described herein.
[0031]            The sample can be obtained by removing a sample of cells from a subject, but can also
be accomplished by using previously isolated cells (e.g. isolated at a prior timepoint and isolated by the
same or another person). In addition, the biological sample can be freshly collected or a previously
collected sample. In some embodiments, a biological sample is a biological fluid. Examples of biological
fluids include, but are not limited to, saliva, blood, sputum, an aspirate, and any combinations thereof.
In some embodiments, the biological sample is a frozen biological sample, e.g., a frozen tissue or fluid
sample such as blood. The frozen sample can be thawed before employing methods, assays and systems
of the invention. After thawing, a frozen sample can be centrifuged before being subjected to methods,
                                                        11

assays and systems of the invention. In some embodiments, the biological sample can be treated with at
least one chemical reagent, such as a protease inhibitor. Chemical and/or biological reagents can be
employed to protect and/or maintain the stability of the sample., including biomolecules (e.g., nucleic acid
and protein) therein, during processing. One exemplary reagent is a protease inhibitor, which is generally
used to protect or maintain the stability of protein during processing. In addition, or alternatively,
chemical and/or biological reagents can be employed to release nucleic acid or protein from the sample.
A biological sample can contain cells, but the term can also refer to non-cellular biological material, such
as non-cellular fractions that can be used to measure gene expression levels.
[0032]           As used herein, a "subject" means a human or animal. Usually the animal is a vertebrate
such as a primate, rodent, domestic animal or game animal. Primates include chimpanzees,
cynomologous monkeys, spider monkeys, and macaques, e.g., Rhesus. Rodents include mice, rats,
woodchucks, ferrets, rabbits and hamsters. Domestic and game animals include cows, horses, pigs, deer,
bison, buffalo, feline species, e.g., domestic cat, canine species, e.g., dog, fox, wolf, avian species, e.g.,
chicken, emu, ostrich, and fish, e.g., trout, catfish and salmon. Patient or subject includes any subset of
the foregoing, e.g., all of the above, but excluding one or more groups or species such as humans,
primates or rodents. In certain embodiments, the subject is a mammal, e.g., a primate, e.g., a human.
The terms, "patient", "individual" and "subject" are used interchangeably herein.
[00331           Preferably, the subject is a mammal. The mammal can be a human, non-human primate,
mouse, rat. dog, cat, horse, or cow, but is not limited to these examples. Mammals other than humans
can be advantageously used,. for example, as subjects that represent animal models of, for example,
cancer. In addition, the methods described herein can be used to treat domesticated animals and/or pets.
A subject can be male or female.
[0034]           A subject can be one who has been previously diagnosed with or identified as suffering
from or having a condition in need of treatment (e.g. cancer) or one or more complications related to such
a condition, and optionally, have already undergone treatment for cancer or the one or more
complications related to cancer. Alternatively, a subject can also be one who has not been previously
diagnosed as having cancer or one or more complications related to cancer. For example, a subject can
be one who exhibits one or more risk factors for cancer or one or more complications related to cancer or
a subject who does not exhibit risk factors. A "subject in need" of treatment for a particular condition
can be a subject having that condition, diagnosed as having that condition, or being at risk of developing
that condition.
[0035]           As used herein, the term "proteins" and "polypeptides" are used interchangeably herein
to designate a series of amino acid residues connected to each other by peptide bonds between the alpha
amino and carboxy groups of adjacent residues. The terms "protein", and "polypeptide" refer to a
polymer of amino acids, including modified amino acids (e.g., phosphorylated, glycated, glycosylated,
etc.) and amino acid analogs, regardless of their size or function. "Protein" and polypeptidee" are often
used in reference to relatively large polypeptides, whereas the term "peptide" is often used in reference to
small polypeptides, but usage of these terms in the art overlaps. The terms "protein" and "polypeptide"
                                                        12

are used interchangeably herein when referring to a gene product and fragments thereof. Thus, exemplary
polypeptides or proteins include gene products, naturally occurring proteins, homologs, orthologs,
paralogs, fragments and other equivalents, variants, fragments, and analogs of the foregoing.
[00361             As used herein, the term "nucleic acid" or "nucleic acid sequence" refers to any
molecule, preferably a polymeric molecule, incorporating units of ribonucleic acid, deoxyribonucleic
acid or an analog thereof. The nucleic acid can be either single-stranded or double-stranded. A single
stranded nucleic acid can be one strand nucleic acid of a denatured double- stranded DNA. Alternatively,
it can be a single-stranded nucleic acid not derived from any double-stranded DNA. In one aspect, the
template nucleic acid is DNA. In another aspect, the template is RNA. Suitable nucleic acid molecules
are DNA, including genomic DNA or cDNA. Other suitable nucleic acid molecules are RNA, including
mRNA.
[0037]             As used herein, the terms "treat," "treatment," "treating," or "*amelioration" refer to
therapeutic treatments, wherein the object is to reverse. alleviate, ameliorate, inhibit, slow down or stop
the progression or severity of a condition associated with a disease or disorder, e.g. cancer. The term
"treating" includes reducing or alleviating at least one adverse effect or symptom of a condition, disease
or disorder associated with a cancer. Treatment is generally "effective" if one or more symptoms or
clinical markers are reduced. Alternatively, treatment is "effective" if the progression of a disease is
reduced or halted. That is, "treatment" includes not just the improvement of symptoms or markers, but
also a cessation of, or at least slowing of, progress or worsening of symptoms compared to what would
be expected in the absence of treatment. Beneficial or desired clinical results include, but are not limited
to., alleviation of one or more symptom(s), diminishment of extent of disease, stabilized (i.e.. not
worsening) state of disease, delay or slowing of disease progression, amelioration or palliation of the
disease state, remission (whether partial or total), and/or decreased mortality, whether detectable or
undetectable. The term "treatment" of a disease also includes providing relief from the symptoms or side
effects of the disease (including palliative treatment).
[0038]        As used herein, the terms "alkyl," "alkenyl" and the prefix "alk-" are inclusive of both straight
chain and branched chain groups and of cyclic groups, i.e. cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl. Unless otherwise
specified, these groups contain from 1 to 20 carbon atoms, with alkenyl groups containing from 2 to 20
carbon atoms. Preferred groups have a total of up to 10 carbon atoms. Cyclic groups can be monocyclic
or polycyclic and preferably have from 3 to 10 ring carbon atoms. Exemplary cyclic groups include
cyclopropyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cyclopropylmethyl, adamantly, norbornane, and norbornene. This
is also true of groups that include the prefix "alkyl-," such as alkylcarboxylic acid, alkyl alcohol,
alkylcarboxylate, alkylaryl, and the like. Examples of suitable alkylcarboxylic acid groups are
methylcarboxylic acid, ethylcarboxylic acid, and the like. Examples of suitable alkylacohols are
methylalcohol, ethylalcohol., isopropylalcohol, 2-methylpropan-1-ol, and the like. Examples of suitable
alkylcarboxylates are methylcarboxylate, ethylcarboxylate, and the like. Examples of suitable alkyl aryl
groups are benzyl, phenylpropyl, and the like.
                                                        13

[0039]        These may be straight chain or branched, saturated or unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbon,
which may be optionally inserted with N, 0, or S. Representative saturated straight chain alkyls include
methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, n-butyl, n-pentyl, n-hexyl. and the like; while saturated branched alkyls include
isopropyl, sec-butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl, isopentyl, and the like.
[0040]        As used herein, the term "alkenyl" means an alkyl, as defined above, containing at least one
double bond between adjacent carbon atoms. Alkenyls include both cis and trans isomers.
Representative straight chain and branched alkenyls include ethylenyl, propylenyl. 1-butenyl, 2-butenyl,
isobutylenyl. 1-pentenyl, 2-pentenyl, 3-methyl-1-butenyl, 2 -methyl-2-butenyl, 2,3 -dimethyl-2-butenyl,
and the like.
[0041]        As used herein, the term "alkynyl" means any alkyl or alkenyl, as defined above, which
additionally contains at least one triple bond between adjacent carbons. Representative straight chain and
branched alkynyls include acetylenyl, propynyl, 1-butynyl, 2-butynyl, 1-pentynyl, 2-pentynyl, 3-methyl
1 butynyl, and the like.
[0042]        The term "aryl" as used herein includes carbocyclic aromatic rings or ring systems. As used
herein, the term "aryl" refers to an aromatic 5-8 membered monocyclic, 8-12 membered bicyclic, or 11
14 membered tricyclic ring system. Examples of aryl groups include phenyl, naphthyl, biphenyl,
fluorenyl and indenyl.
[0043]        The term "heteroaryl" includes aromatic rings or ring systems that contain at least one ring
hetero atom (e.g., 0, S, N). As used herein, the term "heteroaryl" refers to an aromatic 5-8 membered
monocyclic. 8-12 membered bicyclic, or 11-14 membered tricyclic ring system having 1-3 heteroatoms if
monocyclic, 1-6 heteroatoms if bicyclic, or 1-9 heteroatoms if tricyclic, said heteroatoms selected from
0, N, or S (e.g., carbon atoms and 1-3, 1-6, or 1-9 heteroatoms of N, 0, or S if monocyclic, bicyclic, or
tricyclic., respectively), wherein 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 atoms of each ring may be substituted by a substituent.
Examples of heteroaryl groups include pyridyl, furyl or furanyl, imidazolyl, thiazolyl, benzimidazolyl,
pyrimidinyl, thiophenyl or thienyl, quinolinyl, indolyl, oxazolyl, isoquinolinyl, isoindolyl, thiazolyl,
pyrrolyl, tetrazolyl, pyrazolyl, oxazolyl., thiazolyl, benzofuranyl., benzothiophenyl, carbazolyl,
benzoxazolyl, benzimidazolyl, quinoxalinyl, benzothiazolyl, naphthyridinyL isoxazolyl, isothiazolyl,
purinyl, quinazolinyl, and the like.
[0044]        The aryl, and heteroaryl groups can be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more substituents
independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkoxy, methylenedioxy, ethylenedioxy,
alkylthio, haloalkyl, haoalkoxy, haloalkylthio, halogen, nitro, hydroxy, mercapto, cyano, carboxy,
formyl. aryl, aryloxy. arylthio, arylalkoxy, arylalkylthio, heteroaryl, heteroaryloxy, heteroarylalkoxy,
heteroarylalkylthio, amino, alkylamino. dialkylamino, heterocyclyl, heterocycloalkyl, alkylcarbonyl,
alkenylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, haloalkylcarbonyl. haloalkoxycarbonyl, alkylthiocarbonyl,
arylcarbonyl, heteroarylcarbonyl, aryloxycarbonyl, heteroaryloxycarbonyl, arylthiocarbonyl,
heteroarylthiocarbonyl, alkanoyloxy, alkanoylthio, alkanoylamino., arylcarbonyloxy, arylcarbonythio,
alkylaminosulfonyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, heteroarylsulfonyl, aryldiazinyl, alkylsulfonylamino,
arylsulfonylamino, arylalkylsulfonylamino, alkylcarbonylamino, alkenylcarbonylamino,
                                                         14

arylcarbonylamino, arylalkylcarbonylamino., arylcarbonylaminoalkyl, heteroarylcarbonylamino,
heteroarylalkycarbonylamino., alkylsulfonylamino, alkenylsulfonylamino, arylsulfonylamino,
arylalkylsulfonylamino, heteroarylsulfonylamino, heteroarylalkylsulfonylamino,
alkylaminocarbonylamino, alkenylaminocarbonylamino, arylaminocarbonylamino,
arylalkylaminocarbonylamino, heteroarylaminocarbonylamino. heteroarylalkylaminocarbonylamino and,
in the case of heterocyclyl, oxo. If other groups are described as being "substituted" or "optionally
substituted," then those groups can also be substituted by one or more of the above enumerated
substituents.
[0045]      The term "arylalkyl," as used herein, refers to a group comprising an aryl group attached to the
parent molecular moiety through an alkyl group.
[0046]      As used herein, the term "cyclyl" refers to a nonaromatic5-8 membered monocyclic, 8-12
membered bicyclic, or 11-14 membered tricyclic ring system, which can be saturated or partially
unsaturated. Representative saturated cyclyl groups include, but are not limited to, cyclopropyl,
cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclopentenyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl., cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl, and the like;
while unsaturated cyclyl groups include cyclopentenyl and cyclohexenyl, and the like.
[0047]      The terms "heterocycle", "heterocyclyl" and "heterocyclic group" are recognized in the art and
refer to nonaromatic 3- to about 14-membered ring structures, such as 3- to about 7-membered rings,
whose ring structures include one to four heteroatoms, 5-8 membered monocyclic, 8-12 membered
bicyclic, or 11-14 membered tricyclic ring system having 1-3 heteroatoms if monocyclic, 1-6
heteroatoms if bicyclic, or 1-9 heteroatoms if tricyclic., said heteroatoms selected from 0, N, or S (e.g.,
carbon atoms and 1-3. 1-6, or 1-9 heteroatoms of N, 0, or S if monocyclic, bicyclic, or tricyclic,
respectively), wherein 0, 1, 2 or 3 atoms of each ring may be substituted by a substituent. The heterocycle
may include portions which are saturated or unsaturated. In some embodiments, the heterocycle may
include two or more rings (e.g., cycloalkyls, cycloalkenyls, cycloalkynyls, aryls and/or heterocyclyls) in
which two or more carbons are common to two adjoining rings, e.g., the rings are "fused rings." In some
embodiments, the heterocycle may be a "bridged" ring, where rings are joined through non-adjacent
atoms, e.g., three or more atoms are common to both rings. Each of the rings of the heterocycle may be
optionally substituted. Examples of heterocyclyl groups include, for example, thiophene, thianthrene,
furan, pyran, isobenzofuran, chromene, xanthene, phenoxathin, pyrrole, imidazole, pyrazole, isothiazole,
isoxazole, pyridine, pyrazine, pyrimidine, pyridazine, indolizine, isoindole, indole, indazole, purine.,
quinolizine, isoquinoline, quinoline, phthalazine, naphthyridine, quinoxaline, quinazoline, cinnoline,
pteridine, carbazole, carboline, phenanthridine, acridine, pyrimidine, phenanthroline, phenazine,
phenarsazine, phenothiazine, furazan, dioxane, morpholine, tetrahydrofurane, phenoxazine, pyrrolidine,
oxolane, thiolane, oxazole, piperidine, piperazine, morpholine, lactones, lactams such as azetidinones and
pyrrolidinones, sultams, sultones, and the like. The heterocyclic ring may be substituted at one or more
positions with substituents including, for example, halogen, aryl, heteroaryl, alkyl, heteroalkyl, aralkyl,
alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, hydroxyl., amino, nitro, sulfhydryl, imino, amido, phosphonate, phosphinate,
                                                       15

carbonyl, carboxyl, silyl, ether, alkylthio, sulfonyl, ketone, aldehyde, ester, a heterocyclyl, an aromatic or
heteroaromatic moiety, CF 3 , CN, or the like.
[00481      As used herein, the term "halogen" refers to iodine, bromine, chlorine, and fluorine.
[00491      As used herein, the terms "optionally substituted alkyl," "optionally substituted cyclyl,"
"optionally substituted heterocyclyl," "optionally substituted aryl," and "optionally substituted
heteroaryl" means that, when substituted, at least one hydrogen atom in said alkyl, cyclyl, heterocylcyl,
aryl, or heteroaryl is replaced with a substituent. In the case of an oxo substituent (=0) two hydrogen
atoms are replaced. In this regard, substituents include oxo, halogen, alkyl, cyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl,
heteroaryl, -CN, -ORx, -NRxRY, -NRxC(=O)R,-NRSO 2RY, -C(=O)R, -C(=O)OR, -C(=O)NRxRY,
SORX and -SONRxRY, wherein n is 0, 1 or 2, Rx and RY are the same or different and independently
hydrogen, alkyl, cyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl or heterocycle, and each of said alkyl, cyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl
and heterocycle substituents may be further substituted with one or more of oxo, halogen, -OH, -CN,
alkyl, -ORx, heterocycle, -NRxRY, -NRxC(=O)R,-NRSO 2RY, -C(=O)R, -C(=O)OR, -C(=O)NRxR,
-SOnRx and -SO 1NRxRY.
[00501      The term "carbonyl," as used herein, refers to "C(=O)".
[00511      The terms "acyl," "carboxyl group," or "carbonyl group" are recognized in the art and can
include such moieties as can be represented by the general formula:
                                                          w,
wherein W is ORW, N(RW) 2 , SRW, or RW, RW being hydrogen, alkyl, heteroalkyl, alkenyl, heteroalkenyl,
alkynyl, heteroalkynyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heterocycle, substituted derivatives thereof, or a salt thereof. For
example, when W is O-alkyl, the formula represents an "ester," and when W is OH, the formula
represents a "carboxylic acid." When W is alkyl, the formula represents a "ketone" group, and when W is
hydrogen, the formula represents an "aldehyde" group. Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand
the use of such terms.
[0052]      As used herein, the term "substituted" is contemplated to include all permissible substituents
of organic compounds, "permissible" being in the context of the chemical rules of valence known to
those of ordinary skill in the art. In some cases, "substituted" may generally refer to replacement of a
hydrogen with a substituent as described herein. However, "substituted," as used herein, does not
encompass replacement and/or alteration of a key functional group by which a molecule is identified,
e.g., such that the "substituted" functional group becomes, through substitution, a different functional
group. For example, a "substituted phenyl" must still comprise the phenyl moiety and cannot be modified
by substitution, in this definition, to become, e.g., a heteroaryl group such as pyridine. In a broad aspect,
the permissible substituents include acyclic and cyclic, branched and unbranched, carbocyclic and
heterocyclic, aromatic and nonaromatic, fused, and bridged substituents of organic compounds.
Illustrative substituents include, for example, those described herein. The permissible substituents can be
one or more and the same or different for appropriate organic compounds. For purposes of this invention,
                                                        16

the heteroatoms such as nitrogen may have hydrogen substituents and/or any permissible substituents of
organic compounds described herein which satisfy the valencies of the heteroatoms. This invention is not
intended to be limited in any manner by the permissible substituents of organic compounds.
[0053]            As used herein the term "comprising" or "comprises" is used in reference to
compositions, methods, and respective component(s) thereof, that are essential to the method or
composition, yet open to the inclusion of unspecified elements, whether essential or not.
[0054]            The term "consisting of' refers to compositions, methods, and respective components
thereof as described herein, which are exclusive of any element not recited in that description of the
embodiment.
[0055]            As used herein the term "consisting essentially of' refers to those elements required for a
given embodiment. The term permits the presence of elements that do not materially affect the basic and
novel or functional characteristic(s) of that embodiment.
[0056]            As used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an," and
"the" include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example, references
to "the method" includes one or more methods, and/or steps of the type described herein and/or which
will become apparent to those persons skilled in the art upon reading this disclosure and so forth.
Similarly, the word "or" is intended to include "and" unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the
practice or testing of this disclosure, suitable methods and materials are described below. The
abbreviation, "e.g." is derived from the Latin exempli gratia, and is used herein to indicate a non-limiting
example. Thus, the abbreviation "e.g." is synonymous with the term "for example."
[0057]            Other than in the operating examples, or where otherwise indicated, all numbers
expressing quantities of ingredients or reaction conditions used herein should be understood as modified
in all instances by the term "about." The term "about" when used in connection with percentages can
mean ±1%.
[0058]            The term "statistically significant" or "significantly" refers to statistical significance and
generally means a two standard deviation (2SD) difference, above or below a reference value. Additional
definitions are provided in the text of individual sections below.
[0059]            Definitions of common terms in cell biology and molecular biology can be found in "The
Merck Manual of Diagnosis and Therapy", 19th Edition, published by Merck Research Laboratories,
2006 (ISBN 0-911910-19-0); Robert S. Porter et al. (eds.). The Encyclopedia of Molecular Biology,
published by Blackwell Science Ltd.. 1994 (ISBN 0-632-02182-9); The ELISA guidebook (Methods in
molecular biology 149) by Crowther J. R. (2000); Immunology by Werner Luttmann, published by
Elsevier, 2006. Definitions of common terms in molecular biology can also be found in Benjamin Lewin,
Genes X, published by Jones & Bartlett Publishing, 2009 (ISBN-10: 0763766321); Kendrew et al. (eds.),
Molecular Biology and Biotechnology: a Comprehensive Desk Reference, published by VCH Publishers,
Inc., 1995 (ISBN 1-56081-569-8) and Current Protocols in Protein Sciences 2009, Wiley Intersciences.
Coligan et al., eds.
                                                        17

[0060]            Unless otherwise stated, the present invention was performed using standard procedures,
as described, for example in Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (3 ed.), Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., USA (2001) and Davis et al., Basic Methods
in Molecular Biology, Elsevier Science Publishing, Inc., New York. USA (1995) which are both
incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.
[0061]            Other terms are defined herein within the description of the various aspects of the
invention.
[0062]            The methods and compositions described herein relate to the treatment of cancer by
inhibiting the activity of sterol regulatory binding protein 1 (SREBP1). As used herein, "sterol
regulatory binding protein 1" or "SREBPl" (e.g. NCBI Gene ID: 6720) refers to a transcription factor
involved in the regulation of lipid homeostasis which is synethized as an inactive precursor bound to the
endoplasmic reticulum and upon a decrease in cellular sterol levels, undergoes a sequential two-step
cleavage process to release the NH2-terminal active domain in the nucleus (designated nSREBPs), and
then transactivating SREBP target genes to maintain cholesterol and FAs homeostasis. Targets of
SREBP1 activity include enzymes required for cholesterol and fatty acids (FAs) synthesis, e.g. FASN
and SCD. Two SREBP1 human isoforms exist; SREBPla (protein: SEQ ID NO: 1; mRNA: SEQ ID
NO: 2) and SREBPlc (protein: SEQ ID NO: 3; mRNA: SEQ ID NO: 4). In some embodiments,
SREBP1 can refer to SREBPla and SREBPIc. In some embodiments, SREBP1 can be SREBPla. In
some embodiments, SREBP1 can be SREBPlc. SREBPI can be expressed at abnormally high levels in
certain cancers and is believed to have a correlation with, e.g. malignant transformation, cancer
progression, proliferation, and metastasis for several cancer types, particularly hormone-responsive
tissues including breast and prostate cancers.
[0063]            Given the broad range of tumor types which display growth inhibition in response to
inhibitors of SREBP1, (e.g. leukemias, CNS cancers, non-small cell lung cancers, prostate cancers,
melanomas, colon cancers, ovarian cancers, renal cancers, and breast cancers, as described in Example
3), it is contemplated herein that the inhibitors and methods described herein can treat any cancer
comprising cells with increased or high levels of SREBPI expression and/or activity.
[0064]            In some embodiments, the technology described herein relates to methods of treating
cancer by inhibiting the lipogenesis characteristic of cancer by inhibiting SREBPl. In some
embodiments, SREBPI can be inhibited by administering to a subject an inhibitor of SREBPl. As used
herein, the term "inhibitor of SREBP 1" or "SREBP1 inhibitor" refers to an agent which reduces the
expression and/or activity of SREBP1 by at least 10%. e.g. by 10% or more,. 2 0% or more, 30% or more,
50% or more, 75% or more, 90% or more, 95% or more, 98% or more, or 99% or more. The term
"agent" refers generally to any entity which is normally not present or not present at the levels being
administered to a cell., tissue or subject. An agent can be selected from a group comprising:
polynucleotides; polypeptides; small molecules; antibodies; or functional fragments thereof. In some
embodiments, the SREBP 1 inhibitor can be a pinacolyl boronate-substituted stilbene.
                                                       18

[0065]               In some embodiments, the inhibitor of SREBP1 can be a compound having the formula
of I, II, III or IV, wherein formulae 1, 11, III, and IV are:
                                                      (R3)n       R5
                                              R1-OB        \   /       R6
                                              R -0 'B
                                                2                   R4
              wherein R 1 and R2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and R 1 and R 2 can be
taken together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring;
              R 3 is halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic;
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)RB; -CO 2 RB; _
-CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; -SO 2 RB; -NO 2 ; -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3 ; wherein each occurrence of
RB  is independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group: aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety;
heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino;
heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
              R 4 and R5 are independently hydrogen; halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -CN;
halogen; or hydroxyl;
              R 6 is cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic
or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aryl;
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl;
              R 7 are independently halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)RB;
-CO 2 RB; -; -CN; -SCN;      -SRB; -SORB; -SO2RB; -NO 2; -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3 ; wherein each
occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl;
aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino;
dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
              n is an integer 0-4 inclusive; and
              im is an integer 0-5 inclusive;
                                                             19

                                            (R9 )n       R6        R7
                                                                               -R,
                                                                  /
                                                         R5                 O-R    2
                                                               R4      R3
                                                               II
             wherein Ri and R 2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and R1 and R 2 can be
taken together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring;
            R3 , R 4 , Rs, R6 , R 7 and R8 are independently hydrogen; halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted
or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl;
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched heteroaryl; B(O)R1R 2 ; -C(=O)RB; -CORB; -; -CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; -SO 2 RB; -NO 2;
N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3; wherein each occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a
protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy;
alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
            R 9 is independently halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)RB;
-CO 2 RB; -; -CN; -SCN; -SRP; -SORB; -SO 2 RB; -NO 2 ; -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3; wherein each
occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl;
aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino;
dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo; and wherein R9 and R 5 or R6 can be taken
together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring; and
            n is an integer 0 to 5, inclusive;
                                                     R8      R9
                                                             -R10
                                                 R7        /
                                                 R6                     O10-R,
                                                     R54                O-R2
                                                          R4        R3
                                                              III
          wherein Ri and R2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and R 1 and 12 can be taken
together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring: and
            R3    ,      ,
                       R5R,,    R 7, R8, R 9 , Rio and Ri   are independently hydrogen; halogen; cyclic or acyclic,
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
                                                               20

unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted. branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched heteroaryl; B(O)R1R2; -C(=O)R; -CO 2 RB;             -; -CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; -SO2RB;
-NO 2 ; -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3 ; wherein each occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen;
halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy;
aryloxy; alkyithioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or
alkylhalo;
                                                          (R 3)n
                                                  R1--O          -\
                                                        ,B               R4
                                                  R2 -O
                                                             IV
            wherein R1 and R2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and Ri and R 2 can be
taken together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring;
            R3 halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic;
cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aryl;
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)RB; -CO 2 RB; -; -CN; -SCN;
SRB; -SORB; -SO 2 RB; -NO 2:   -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3 ; wherein each occurrence of RB is
independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety;
heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino;
heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
            R4 is optionally substituted aryl, or optionally substituted heteroaryl; and
            n is an integer 0-4 inclusive.
[0066]              In some embodiments, provided herein are SREBP1 inhibitors of formula I:
                                                   (R3)n          R5
                                                  B                    R
                                            R2 -O                   R4
            wherein R1 and R2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and Ri and R 2 can be
taken together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring;
            R 3 is halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic:
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)R; -CO 2 RB.        -;
-CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; -SO 2 RB; -NO2; -N(RB)2; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3 ; wherein each occurrence of
                                                         21

RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety;
heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; aryithioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino;
heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
            R 4 and R5 are independently hydrogen; halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic. substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted.
branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl: -CN;
halogen; or hydroxyl;
            R 6 is cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic
or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aryl;
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl;
            R 7 are independently halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)RB;
-CO 2RB; -; -CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; -SO2RB; -NO 2; -N(RB) 2; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3 ; wherein each
occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl;
aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy: aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino;
dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
            n is an integer 0-4 inclusive; and
            m is an integer 0-5 inclusive.
[0067]      In some embodiments R, and R 2 are the different. In some embodiments, R1 and R2 are the
same. In some embodiments, at least R1 or R2 is C 1 4 alkyl. In some embodiments, both R1 and R 2 are
methyl, ethyl, propyl., or butyl. In some embodiments R1 and R2 are taken together to form an
unsubstituted five membered ring. In some embodiments Ri and R2 are taken together to form a
substituted five membered ring. In some embodiments R1 and R 2 are taken together to form an
unsubstituted six membered ring. In some embodiments Ri and R2 are taken together to form a
                                                                                                      O
substituted six membered ring. In some embodiments, R, and R 2 are taken together to form             O
[0068]      In some embodiments, R 3 and R 6 are independently halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched
or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaryl; -C(=O)RB; -CO 2RB; -; -CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; -SO 2RB; -NO 2 ; -N(RB) 2; -NHC(O)R-          or
C(RB) 3 ; wherein each occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic;
                                                         22

heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino;
alkylamino; dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
[0069]        In some embodiments, n is 0. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some embodiments, n is 2. In
some embodiments. n is 3. In some embodiments, n is 4.
[0070]        In some embodiments, all R 3 are different. In some embodiments, all R.3 are the same. In some
embodiments, at least two R 3 are the same. In some embodiments, at least three R 3 are the same. In some
embodiments, at least one R 3 is C-   4 alkyl. In some embodiments, at least one R 3 is C 24 alkenyl. In some
embodiments, at least one R3 is C 2 .4 alkynyl. In some embodiments, at least one R 3 is C 1 4 alkoxy. In
some embodiments, at least one R 3 is CN. In some embodiments, at least one R 3 is halogen. In some
embodiments, at least one R 3 is F, Cl, Br, or I. In some embodiments, at least one R3 is CF 3. In some
embodiments, at least one R 3 is NO 2. In some embodiments, at least one R 3 is substituted aryl. In some
embodiments, at least one R 3 is unsubstituted aryl. In some embodiments, at least one R 3 is substituted
phenyl. In some embodiments, at least one R 3 is unsubstituted phenyl.
[0071]             In some embodiments, R 4 and R 5 are independently hydrogen, -CN. halogen, hydroxyl,
alkoxy, aryloxy, alkylthioxy, arylthioxy, amino, alkylamino, dialkylamino, heteroaryloxy,
heteroarylthioxy, or alkylhalo. In some embodiments, R4 and R5 are the same. In some embodiments, R 4
and R5 are different. In some embodiments, at least R 4 is hydrogen. In some embodiments, at least R 5 is
hydrogen. In some embodiments, both R 4 and Rs are hydrogen. In some embodiments, R4 is C 1 4 alkyl. In
some embodiments, R 4 is C 2 -4 alkenyl. In some embodiments, R 4 is C 2-4 alkynyl. In some embodiments,
R 4 is CN. In some embodiments, R 4 is substituted aryl. In some embodiments, R 4 is unsubstituted aryl. In
some embodiments, R 4 is substituted phenyl. In some embodiments, R 4 is unsubstituted phenyl. In some
embodiments, R5 is C 1 4 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 5 is C 2 4 alkenyl. In some embodiments, R 5 is C-24
alkynyl. In some embodiments, Rs is CN. In some embodiments, R5 is substituted aryl. In some
embodiments, Rs is unsubstituted aryl. In some embodiments, Rs is substituted phenyl. In some
embodiments, Rs is unsubstituted phenyl. In some embodiments, R4 is CN and Rs is phenyl.
[0072]        In some embodiments,   R 6 is C 1 4 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 6 is methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, i
propyl, n-butyl, i-butyl or t-butyl. In some embodiments, R 6 is C2-4 alkenyl. In some embodiments, R6 is
C 2 -4 alkynyl. In some embodiments, R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted aryl. In some embodiments, R is
          (R7 )m
[0073]        In some embodiments, m is 0. In some embodiments. m is 1. In some embodiments, m is 2. In
some embodiments, m is 3. In some embodiments, m is 4. In some embodiments, m is 5.
[0074]        In some embodiments, all R 7 are different. In some embodiments, all R 7 are the same. In some
embodiments., at least two R 7 are the same. In some embodiments, at least three R 7 are the same. In some
embodiments, at least one R 7 is C 1 4 alkyl. In some embodiments, at least one R7 is C 24 alkenyl. In some
embodiments, at least one R 7 is C 24 alkynyl. In some embodiments, at least one R 7 is C 1 4 alkoxy. In
some embodiments, at least one R 7 is CN. In some embodiments, at least one R 7 is halogen. In some
                                                           23

embodiments, at least one R 7 is F, Cl, Br, or 1. In some embodiments, at least one R7 is CF3. In some
embodiments, at least one R 7 is NO 2 . In some embodiments, at least two R7 are NO 2. In some
embodiments, at least three R 7 are NO 2 . In some embodiments, at least one R7 is substituted aryl. In some
embodiments, at least one R 7 is unsubstituted aryl. In some embodiments, at least one R7 is substituted
phenyl. In some embodiments, at least one R7 is unsubstituted phenyl. In some embodiments, R7 is OH
phenyl.
                                                                 B
           In some embodiments, formula I can be                             BF-175
[0075]
            B                    /    ~       B/                          /     OH
      o/0                                         -           BF-102
        ,B                            NO               BNO               0 2N
      O          -_G                  NO2            0\ B                           NO 2
        B                                            0 B
                         02 N
       0
                                                        aRB
                                      NO2                         G
         B   g
      O                  0 2N               , or                             N
[0076]             In some embodiments, provided herein are SREBP I inhibitors of formula II:
                                       (R9 )n        R6       R7
                                                 /\       -         RS
                                                   -
                                                                    /  B/0g-R,
                                                     R5                  O-R  2
                                                           R4       R3
                                                           II
           wherein R1 and R2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and R, and R 2 can be
taken together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring;
           R3  , R4, R5, R6, R 7 and R8 are independently hydrogen; halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted
or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl;
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched heteroaryl; B(O)RR 2 ; -C(=O)RB; -CO 2 RB_              -CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; -SO 2 R ; -NO 2:
N(RB)2: -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3; wherein each occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a
                                                           24

protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy;
alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkyihalo;
              R 9 is independently halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)R;
-CO2RB; -; -CN; -SCN;        -SRB; -SORB; -SO 2 RB; -NO,; -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3 ; wherein each
occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen: halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl;
aryl moiety: heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino;
dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo; and wherein R 9 and R or R can be taken
together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring; and
              n is an integer 0 to 5. inclusive.
[0077]               In some embodiments R 1 and R 2 are the different. In some embodiments, R 1 and R2 are
the same. In some embodiments, at least R1 or R 2 is C14 alkyl. In some embodiments, both R1 and R 2 are
methyl, ethyl, propyl, or butyl. In some embodiments R 1 and R 2 are taken together to form an
unsubstituted five membered ring. In some embodiments Ri and R 2 are taken together to form a
substituted five membered ring. In some embodiments R1 and R2 are taken together to form an
unsubstituted six membered ring. In some embodiments R1 and R 2 are taken together to form a
                                                                                                           RB
substituted six membered ring. In some embodiments, R 1 and R2 are taken together to form                 O
                                                                          0
In some embodiments, R, and R2 are taken together to form                 0
[0078]        In some embodiments, each one of R 3, R 4, R 5, R 6, R 7 and Rs are different. In some
embodiments, all of R3 , R 4, Rs, R6 , R 7 and Rs are the same. In some embodiments, at least two of R3 , R 4,
R 5, R(, R 7 and Rs are the same. In some embodiments, at least three of R 3,. R 4, R5 , R6, R 7 and R8 are the
same. In some embodiments, at least four of R 3, R 4, R 5, R6 , R 7, Rs, R 9, Rio and R 1 are the same. In some
embodiments, at least five of R3 , R 4, Rs, R6 , R 7 and Rs are the same. In some embodiments, at least one of
R 3. R 4, R5, R 6, R 7 and R8 is hydrogen. In some embodiments, each one of R 3, R 4, R 5, R6 , R 7 and R is
hydrogen. In some embodiments, at least one R 3, R 4, R5 , R 6, R 7 and Rs is C    4 alkyl. In some
embodiments, at least one R3, R 4, R5 , R6, R7 and Rs is methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, i-propyl, n-butyl. i-butyl,
or t-butyl. In some embodiments, at least one of R3, R4, R, R6, R7 and Rs8 is C 2 4 alkenyl. In some
embodiments, at least one R3, R4, R5, R6, R 7 and R8 is C24 alkynyl. In some embodiments, at least one R3,
R4, R5, R 6, R7 and Rs is C- 4 alkoxy. In some embodiments, at least one R3,, R4, R5 , R 6, R7 and Rs is CN. In
some embodiments, at least one R3. R4, R5, R6, R7 and R8 is halogen. In some embodiments, at least one
            ,
R31 R4,R4 R6,      R 7 and R%is F, Cl, Br, or I. In some embodiments, at least one R3, R4, R 5, R6 , R7 and Rs is
CF 3. In some embodiments, at least one R 3, R-4. R5, R6, R7 and Rs is NO 2 . In some embodiments, at least
one R 3, R4. R5,R6, R7 and Rs is substituted aryl. In some embodiments, at least one R3, R4 , R5, R6. R7 and
                                                          25

R 8 is unsubstituted aryl. In some embodiments, at least one R 3, R4, R 5 , R6 , R 7 and R 8 is substituted
phenyl. In some embodiments, at least one R 3, R4, R 5. R6, R 7 and R 8 unsubstituted phenyl. In some
embodiments, at least one R 3, R4, R 5, R 6, R7 and R8 is B(O)RR 2.
[0079]      In some embodiments, n is 0. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some embodiments, n is 2. In
some embodiments, n is 3. In some embodiments, n is 4.
[0080]      In some embodiments, all R 9 are different. In some embodiments,. all R 9 are the same. In some
embodiments, at least two R 9 are the same. In some embodiments, at least three R 9 are the same. In some
embodiments, at least one R9 is C1.4 alkyl. In some embodiments, at least one R9 is methyl, ethyl, n
propyl, i-propyl, n-butyl, i-butyl, or t-butyl. In some embodiments, at least one R9 is C2. 4 alkenyl. In some
embodiments, at least one R9 is C2-4 alkynyl. In some embodiments, at least one R9 is C1. 6 alkoxy. In
some embodiments, at least one R9 is C1. 6 alcohol. In some embodiments, at least one R9 is C1- 6 diol. In
some embodiments, at least one R9 is O-C 1 .6 alcohol. In some embodiments, at least one R9 is O-C 1 -6 diol.
In some embodiments, at least one R9 is a substituted or unsubsituted cyclic aliphatic. In some
embodiments, at least one R9 is a monocyclic. In some embodiments, at least one R9 is a bicyclic. In
some embodiments, at least one R9 is a tricyclic. In some embodiments, at least on R 9 is a six membered
ring system. In some embodiments, at least one R9 is a seven membered ring system. In some
embodiments, at least on Ri is an eight membered ring system. In some embodiments,. at least on R 9 is a
nine membered ring system. In some embodiments, at least on R9 is a ten membered ring system. In some
embodiments, at least on R 9 is an eleven membered ring system. In some embodiments, at least on R9 is a
twelve membered ring system. In some embodiments, at least one R 9 is S-C1- 12 alkyl. In some
embodiments, at least one R9 is S-C     -12alkyl, wherein C1 .12 alkyl is a monocyclic, bicyclic, or tricyclic
ring system. In some embodiments, at least one R 9 is CN. In some embodiments, at least one R9 is
halogen. In some embodiments, at least one R9 is F, Cl, Br, or I. In some embodiments, at least one R9 is
CF 3 . In some embodiments, at least one R9 is NO 2 . In some embodiments, at least one R9 is substituted
aryl. In some embodiments, at least one R9 is unsubstituted aryl. In some embodiments, at least one R9 is
substituted phenyl. In some embodiments, at least one R9 is unsubstituted phenyl.
[00811      In some embodiments, R9 is at the ortho position. In some embodiments, R9 is at the meta
position. In some embodiments., R 9 is at the para position. In some embodiments, one Rs is at the meta
position and one R9 is at the para position. In some embodiments, one R9 is at the ortho position and one
R9 is at the para position. In some embodiments, one R 9 is at the ortho position, one R9 is at the meta
position, and one R9 is at the para position.
                                                                 B
                                                                      0'\              /
[0082]      In some embodiments, formula II can be
                o''/\   \     -     /         dB
                            \   /              B                   \-     /0          B
                                                                                      B    C                 /
                                                        26

   ,BB
                   B
 B  O~      OH      B
                   0                   0H
00
                  0B
                    dB
       O'OB           OO-                   O
                            .H            0
               RO                  O-R
                      - 4     R3 e
                          III
                           27

          wherein R 1 and R2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and R 1 and 12 can be taken
together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring; and
               R3 , R 4, R5 , R(, R 7. Rs,Rs . Rio and R 1 are independently hydrogen; halogen; cyclic or acyclic,
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched heteroaryl; B(O)RIR 2 ; -C(=O)RB; -CO 2 RB; -; -CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; -SO2RB;
-NO 2 ; -N(RE) 2; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB)           3; wherein each occurrence of R' is independently hydrogen;
halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy;
aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or
alkylhalo.
[0084]               In some embodiments R 1 and R2 are the different. In some embodiments, R, and R 2 are
the same. In some embodiments, at least R1 or R2 is C1-4 alkyl. In some embodiments, both R 1 and R2
are methyl, ethyl, propyl, or butyl. In some embodiments R1 and R2 are taken together to form an
unsubstituted five membered ring. In some embodiments R1 and R 2 are taken together to form a
substituted five membered ring. In some embodiments R1 and R2 are taken together to form an
unsusbstituted six membered ring. In some embodiments R1 and R2 are taken together to form a
                                                                                                                 RB
substituted six membered ring. In some embodiments, R1 and R2 are taken together to form                        0
[0085]         In some embodiments, each one of R3, R4, R 5, R6, R7 , RS, R 9, Rio and R 1 are different. In
some embodiments, all of R 3, R 4, R 5, R6 , R 7, Rs, R 9, Rio and R 1 are the same. In some embodiments., at
least two of R3, R4, Rs, R(, R7, R8 R9, Rio and R 11 are the same. In some embodiments, at least three of
R 3, R4, R 5, R 6, R 7, R8, R9, Rio and R 1 are the same. In some embodiments. at least four of R 3, R4, R5 , R,
R 7, R8 , R 9, Rio and R 1 are the samc. In some embodiments, at least five of R 3, R 4, R 5, R6 , R 7, Rg, R 9. Rio
and R 1 are the same. In some embodiments, at least six of R 3, R4. R5 , R 6 . R 7 . Rs, R 9, Rio and R11 are the
same. In some embodiments, at least seven of R 3. R4 , R 5, R 6, R 7 , Rs, R 9, Rio and R11 are the same. In
some embodiments, at least one of R 3, R4, R5 , R6, R7, Rs, R9, Rio and Rn is hydrogen. In some
embodiments, each one of R 3, R 4, R 5, R6 , R7, R 8, R 9. Rio and R 1 is hydrogen. In some embodiments, at
least one R 3, R4, R5 , R6, R 7, R 8 , R 9, Rio and R 1 is C 1 .4 alkyl. In some embodiments, at least one R3 , R 4 .
R 5, R6, R 7, R 8, R 9, Rio and R       is methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, i-propyl, n-butyl, i-butyl, or t-butyl. In some
embodiments, at least one of R 3 , R 4, R 5, R 6 , R7 , R8 , R 9 , Rio and RI is C 2 4 alkenyl. In some embodiments,
at least one R 3. R 4. R 5, R6 , R 7, Rs, R 9, Rio and R,1 is C24 alkynyl. In some embodiments, at least one R 3 ,
R41,R5 , R 6, R7, R8 , RO, Rio and Rn is C 14 alkoxy. In some embodiments, at least one R 3, R 4, R5 , R 6, R 7 ,
Rs, R 9, Rio and R 1 is CN. In some embodiments, at least one R 3, R_4, R 5, R6, R 7 , Rs, R 9. Rio and Rn is
halogen. In some embodiments, at least one R 3, R 4, R 5, R6, R 7, R, R 9, Rio and Ru1 is F, Cl, Br, or I. In
some embodiments, at least one R 3 , R 4 , R5 , R 6, R 7, Rs, R 9, Rio and Ri is CF3. In some embodiments, at
least one R 3, R4, R5 , R6, R 7, R8 R 9, R 1o and R1 is NO 2 . In some embodiments, at least one R 3 . R4, R5, R6 ,
                                                              28

R 7, Rs, R 9 , Rio and R 1 is substituted aryl. In some embodiments, at least one R 3 , R             , R R, 7 R8 , R 9,
Rio and Ril is unsubstituted aryl. In some embodiments, at least one R 3 , R 4 , R5 , R 6, R 7, R8 , R 9, Rio and
Rii is substituted phenyl. In some embodiments, at least one R 3 . R 4, R5, R 6, R 7, Rs, R 9, Rio and R1
unsubstituted phenyl. In some embodiments, at least one R 3, R4, K5R,          6, R7. R8 , R 9, Rio and R,1 is
B(O)R 1 R 2.
                                                                    \//       0
[00861         In some embodiments, formula III can be                        0
-0_
           \      /                        \ /       \
-O
                                                           /0
           \        /\       B    -        \    /         BO
                               --   , or                     0
[0087]         In some embodiments, provided herein are SREBPI inhibitors of formula IV:
                                                               (R 3)n
                                                      R1-- 0
                                                             ,B         / R4
                                                      R2 -0
                                                                  IV
wherein R 1 and R 2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and R 1 and R 2 can be taken together
to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring;
               R 3 halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic;
cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aryl;
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=0)RB; -C0 2R;                 -;  -CN; -SCN;
SR; -SORB; -S02R ; -N02; -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)R; or -C(R)3; wherein each occurrence of RB is
independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety;
heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino;
heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy: or alkylhalo;
               R 4 is optionally substituted aryl, or optionally substituted heteroaryl; and
               n is an integer 0-4 inclusive.
[0088]                 In some embodiments R 1 and R 2 are the different. In some embodiments, R 1 and R2 are
the same. In some embodiments, at least R1 or R 2 is C14 alkyl. In some embodiments, both R1 and R 2 are
methyl, ethyl, propyl, or butyl. In some embodiments R1 and R 2 are taken together to form an
unsubstituted five membered ring. In some embodiments R, and R 2 are taken together to form a
                                                              29

substituted five membered ring. In some embodiments R1 and R2_ are taken together to form an
unsubstituted six membered ring. In some embodiments R1 and R2 are taken together to form a
                                                                                                       RB
substituted six membered ring. In some embodiments, R1 and R2 are taken together to form              0
[0089]            In some embodiments, R3 is halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)RB;
-CO2R7;-; -CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SOR; -SO 2 RB; -NO 2; -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB)3; wherein each
occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl;
aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino;
dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
[0090]      In some embodiments, n is 0. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some embodiments, n is 2. In
some embodiments, n is 3. In some embodiments, n is 4.
[0091]      In some embodiments, all R3 are different. In some embodiments, all R3 are the same. In some
embodiments, at least two R3 are the same. In some embodiments, at least three R3 are the same. In some
embodiments, at least one R3 is C1 4 alkyl. In some embodiments, at least one R3 is C2 4 alkenyl. In some
embodiments, at least one R3 is C 2 .4 alkynyl. In some embodiments, at least one R 3 is C1 -4 alkoxy. In
some embodiments, at least one R3 is CN. In some embodiments, at least one R3 is halogen. In some
embodiments, at least one R 3 is F, Cl, Br, or I In some embodiments, at least one R3 is CF3. In some
embodiments, at least one R3 is NO 2 . In some embodiments, at least one R3 is substituted aryl. In some
embodiments, at least one R3 is unsubstituted aryl. In some embodiments, at least one R3 is substituted
phenyl. In some embodiments, at least one R3 is unsubstituted phenyl.
[0092]      In some embodiments, R4 is unsubstituted aryl. In some embodiments, R2 is substituted aryl.
In some embodiments, R4 is substituted or unsubstituted monocyclic aryl. In some embodiments, R4 is
substituted or unsubstituted bicyclic aryl. . In some embodiments, R 4 is substituted or unsubstituted
tricyclic aryl. In some embodiments, R4 is unsubstituted heteroaryl. In some embodiments, R2 is
substituted heteroaryl. In some embodiments, R4 is substituted or unsubstituted monocyclic heteroaryl. In
some embodiments, R4 is substituted or unsubstituted bicyclic heteroaryl. . In some embodiments, R4 is
                                                                                        /
substituted or unsubstituted tricyclic heteroaryl. Is some embodiments, R4 is
[0093]       In some embodiments, R4 is substituted. In some embodiments, R4 is substituted at more than
one position. In some embodiments, R4 is substituted with C 1 4 alkyl. In some embodiments, R4 is
substituted with C2-4alkenyl. In some embodiments. R4 is substituted with C2-4 alkynyl. In some
embodiments, R4 is substituted with C 14 alkoxy. In some embodiments, R4 is substituted with CN. In
                                                       30

some embodiments, R 4 is substituted with halogen. In some embodiments, R4 is substituted with F., Cl,
Br, or I. In some embodiments, R4 is substituted with CF 3. In some embodiments, R4 is substituted with
NO 2 . In some embodiments, R.4 is substituted with substituted aryl. In some embodiments, R.4 is
substituted with unsubstituted aryl.
                                                                                  0
                                                                                \/
                                                                  Si-   \/      B0
[0094]       In some embodiments, formula IV can be                                       , or
                 --         --- /
        0
[0095]             Whether a given compound reduces the expression and/or activity of SREBPI can be
determined in vitro or in vivo, e.g. in in vitro assays or in an animal model of, for example, breast cancer.
Methods of determining the expression of SREBP 1 are described below herein. A non-limiting example
can be immunohistochemical analysis of tumor tissue as described in the Examples herein. Briefly, 5-pLm
thick sections of tumor tissue are de-paraffinized with xylene and rehydrated through a graded alcohol
series. Endogenous peroxidase activity can be blocked by incubation in a 3% hydrogen peroxide solution
for 15 minutes. Antigen retrieval can be carried out by immersing the slides in 10 mM sodium citrate
buffer (pH 6.0) and maintaining them at a sub-boiling temperature for 5 minutes. The slides can be rinsed
in phosphate-buffered saline and incubated with 10% normal serum to block non-specific staining. The
slides can then be incubated with the primary antibody (anti-SREBP1, K-10, Santa Cruz) overnight at
4'C in a humidified chamber. Staining can be assessed e.g., using a semi-quantitative method such as,
e.g., the German semi-quantitative scoring system as described in the Examples herein. Where SREBP1
is a transcription factor, its activity can be determined by monitoring the activity of one or more genes
that is transactivates, e.g., ACLY and SCDI or FASN. SREPB1 target gene expression can be
monitored, e.g. via RT-PCR or at the protein level, e.g. by Western blot of other immuno-chemical
approaches. Alternatively, the promoters for these SREBPI target genes (or other target genes) can be
ligated to a reporter gene, e.g. GFP, to provide a read-out in cultured cells for SREBPl activity under
given conditions. In some embodiments, if SREBP1 activity is decreased, expression of both SREBP1
isoforms, SREBP2, ACLY, and SCD1 will be decreased, while FASN expression will be decreased to a
lesser extent, and PKLR expression will not be altered.
[0096]             In some embodiments, the methods described herein relate to selecting a subject to be
treated for cancer with the inhibitors of SREBP1 described herein. A subject selected for treatment
according to the methods described herein should be one having a cancer comprised of cells which are or
are likely to be sensitive to the inhibitors of SREBPI described herein, e.g. a cancer having cells which
express abnormal (e.g. high) levels of SREBP l. Whether a cancer is likely to be sensitive to inhibitors of
SREBP 1 can be determined, for example, by determining whether the cancer cells are of a type of cancer
                                                        31

cell that typically express abnormal levels of SREBP1 or by determining if they express abnormal levels
of SREBPl.
[0097]            In some embodiments, the subject can have cancer cells which express abnormal levels
of SREBP 1. As used herein, the term "abnormal level" of SREBP 1 can refer to amounts of SREBP 1
expression products and/or activity that are significantly greater than the amounts of SREBP I expression
products and/or activity in a control reference sample representative of the levels of SREBP1 expression
products and/or activity in cells of the same type from a healthy individual.
[0098]            In some embodiments, a subject expressing an abnormal level of SREBPl can be a
subject having a cancer which has an H-score of greater than 1. An H-score can be calculated based
upon immunohistochemical staining of a sample of a cancer obtained from a subject and stained as
described herein for SREBP 1 polypeptide expression. The expression levels of SREBP I in such clinical
specimens can be scored (H-score) based on the total percentage of positive cells and the intensity of the
staining (1+, 2+, or 3+), where H = (%"1+" x 1) + (%"2+" x 2) + (%"3+" x 3). A score of 0-1 can be a
normal level of SREBP1 expression, while a score of greater than 1 can be an abnormal level of SREBP1
expression, e.g. a score of 1.1 or greater, 1.5 or greater, 2.0 or greater, or 2.5 or greater.
[0099]            In some embodiments, the control reference sample can comprise healthy cells of the
same type as the cells for which SREBP1 levels are to be determined. In some embodiments, the cells of
the control reference sample can be of similar age, developmental status, sex, and/or cell type as the cells
for which the level of SREBPI expression and/or activity is to be determined. In some embodiments, the
control reference sample can be obtained from a healthy organism of similar age, developmental status,
and/or sex as the subject organism for which the level of SREBP1 expression and/or activity is to be
determined. In some embodiments, the test sample and control reference sample are of the same type,
that is. obtained from the same biological source, and comprising the same composition, e.g. the same
number and type of cells. In some embodiments, the control reference sample can be non-cancerous cells
from the subject organism which are of the cell type from which the cancerous cells descended, e.g. if the
cancerous cells are breast cancer cells, the control reference sample can be healthy breast cells from the
same subject.
[00100]           In some embodiments, a subject is a candidate for treatment according to the methods
described herein if the levels of SREBP1 expression products and/or activity in the cells of a subject are
significantly greater than the levels of SREBPI expression products and/or activity present in the control
reference sample. In some embodiments, a subject is a candidate for treatment according to the methods
described herein if the levels of SREBP 1 expression products and/or activity in the cells of a subject are
at least 2-fold greater than the levels of SREBP 1 expression products and/or activity present in the
control reference sample, e.g. 2-fold or greater, 3-fold or greater, 4-fold or greater, 5-fold or greater, or 6
fold or more or greater.
[00101]           The expression of a given gene can be determined by measuring the level of any of the
expression products of that gene, e.g. the mRNA or polypeptide encoded by that gene. In some
embodiments, a cell which expresses an abnormal level of a gene can be a cell that expresses an
                                                        32

abnormal level of mRNA encoded by that gene. In some embodiments, a cell which expresses an
abnormal level of a gene can be a cell that expresses an abnormal level of polypeptide encoded by that
gene.
[00102]          In some embodiments, a cell which expresses an abnormal level of SREBP1 can be a cell
that expresses an abnormal level of SREBPI polypeptide.
[00103]          The level of expression of, e.g. SREBPI, can be determined by measuring the level of an
mRNA and/or a polypeptide encoded by SREBPI in a biological sample obtained from the subject. In
some embodiments, the biological sample comprises cancer cells. In some embodiments, the biological
sample comprises a biopsy sample.
[00104]          Methods for determining the level of an mRNA and/or polypeptide in a subject or a
sample obtained from a subject are well known in the art. Methods of determining the level of a
SREBPl polypeptide include, but are not limited to, Western blot; immunoprecipitation; enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assay (ELISA); radioimmunological assay (RIA); sandwich assay; fluorescence in situ
hybridization (FISH); immunohistological staining; radioimmunometric assay; mass spectroscopy and/or
immunoelectrophoresis assay. In certain embodiments determining the level of SREBP1 polypeptide
involves the use of an antibody, an antibody fragment, a monoclonal antibody, and/or a monoclonal
antibody fragment. Antibodies specific for SREBP1 are commercially available, e.g. Cal. No. 3259 from
Abcam; Cambridge. MA. Methods of determining the level of a SREBP 1 mRNA include, but are not
limited to RT-PCR, quantitative RT-PCR, hybridization assays, RNA-Seq, Northern blot, high
throughput sequencing, and/or microarray based expression analysis.
[001051          When certain genes are expressed at abnormally high levels in a cell, SREBP1 is likely
expressed at abnormal levels in the same cell, i.e. there are genes whose expression can serve as a proxy
for the direct measurement of SREBP1 expression. Non-limiting examples of such genes include, Erb2
(NCBI Gene ID: 2100, e.g. SEQ ID NO: 05 (mRNA), SEQ ID NO: 06 (protein); FASN (NCBI Gene ID:
2194, e.g. SEQ ID NO: 07 (mRNA), SEQ ID NO: 08 (protein); SCD1 (NCBI Gene ID: 6319, e.g. SEQ
ID NO: 09 (mRNA), SEQ ID NO: 10 (protein); or ACLY (NCBI Gene ID: 47, e.g. SEQ ID NO: 11
(mRNA), SEQ ID NO: 12 (protein). In some embodiments, a subject in need of treatment according to
the methods described herein can have cancer cells which express abnormal levels of genes which are
correlated with expression of abnormal levels of SREBPl. In some embodiments, a subject in need of
treatment according the methods described herein can have cancer cells which express abnormal levels of
an mRNA of one or more genes correlated with expression of abnormal levels of SREBPl.         In some
embodiments, a subject in need of treatment according the methods described herein can have cancer
cells which express abnormal levels of a polypeptide of one or more genes correlated with expression of
abnormal levels of SREBPl. Expression of these genes in the cancer cells of a subject can be
determined as described above herein for SREBPl. Antibodies specific for Erb2, FASN, SCD1, and
ACLY are commercially available, e.g., respectively, Cat. Nos. ab3 576, ab22759,. abl9862, and ab40793
from Abeam; Cambridge, MA.
                                                      33

[00106]           In some embodiments, determining the expression level of SREBPl and/or one or more
genes correlated with expression of abnormal levels of SREBP1 involves determining the expression of
no more than 20 genes. e.g. 20 or fewer genes, 15 or fewer genes, 10 or fewer genes, or 5 or fewer genes.
[00107]           Certain cancers are known to be characterized and/or likely to be characterized by
abnormal expression of SREBPl. Non-limiting examples of such cancers can include endometrial
cancer; prostate cancer; breast cancer; colorectal cancer; colorectal carcinoma; hepatocarcinoma;
endometrial adenocarcinoma; uterine cancer; leukemia; lung cancer; central nervous system cancer;
melanoma; ovarian cancer; renal cancer; and pancreatic cancer. In some embodiments, the subject
treated according to the methods described herein can have a cancer likely to be sensitive to the inhibitors
of SREBPI described herein. In some embodiments, the subject selected for treatment according to the
methods described herein can have a cancer likely to be sensitive to the inhibitors of SREBP1 described
herein. A cancer likely to be sensitive to the inhibitors of SREBP1 described herein can be a type of
cancer known to have abnormal expression of SREBPl.
[00108]           In some embodiments, a cancer treated according to the methods described herein
comprises a poorly-differentiated or moderately-differentiated tumor. In some embodiments, a cancer
treated according to the methods described herein does not comprise a well-differentiated tumor. The
level of differentiation of a tumor can be determined by methods well known to one of skill in the art.,
e.g. Gleason scores, wherein a Grade 1 tumor is well-differentiated, a Grade 2 tumor is moderately
differentiated, and a Grade 3 or higher tumor is poorly-differentiated (see, e.g. Gleason, Donald F;
Mellinger George T. J. Urol. 2002 167:953-8; which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety).
[001091           In some embodiments, the methods described herein relate to treating a subject having or
diagnosed as having cancer with a SREBPI inhibitor. Subjects having cancer can be identified by a
physician using current methods of diagnosing cancer. Symptoms and/or complications of cancer which
characterize these conditions and aid in diagnosis are well known in the art and include but are not
limited to, for example, in the case of breast cancer a lump or mass in the breast tissue, swelling of all or
part of a breast, skin irritation, dimpling of the breast, pain in the breast or nipple, nipple retraction,
redness, scaliness, or irritation of the breast or nipple, and nipple discharge. Tests that may aid in a
diagnosis of, e.g. breast cancer include, but are not limited to, mammograms, x-rays, MRI. ultrasound,
ductogram, a biopsy, and ductal lavage. A family history of cancer, or exposure to risk factors for cancer
(e.g. smoke, radiation, pollutants, BRCA1 mutation, etc.) can also aid in determining if a subject is likely
to have cancer or in making a diagnosis of cancer. The terms "malignancy," "malignant condition,"
"cancer," or "tumor," as used herein, refer to an uncontrolled growth of cells which interferes with the
normal functioning of the bodily organs and systems.
[00110]           The compositions and methods described herein can be administered to a subject having
or diagnosed as having cancer. In some embodiments, the methods described herein comprise
administering an effective amount of compositions described herein, e.g. a SREBP1 inhibitor to a subject
in order to alleviate a symptom of a cancer. As used herein, "alleviating a symptom of a cancer" is
ameliorating any condition or symptom associated with the cancer. As compared with an equivalent
                                                         34

untreated control, such reduction is by at least 5%, 10%, 20%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 99% or
more as measured by any standard technique. A variety of means for administering the compositions
described herein to subjects are known to those of skill in the art. Such methods can include, but are not
limited to oral or parenteral routes, including intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous, transdermal,
airway (aerosol), pulmonary, or intratumoral. Administration can be local or systemic.
[00111]           The term "effective amount" as used herein refers to the amount of a SREBPI inhibitor
needed to alleviate at least one or more symptom of the disease or disorder, and relates to a sufficient
amount of pharmacological composition to provide the desired effect. The term "therapeutically effective
amount" therefore refers to an amount of a SREBP1 inhibitor that is sufficient to cause a particular anti
cancer effect when administered to a typical subject. An effective amount as used herein, in various
contexts, would also include an amount sufficient to delay the development of a symptom of the disease,
alter the course of a symptom disease (for example but not limited to, slow the progression of a symptom
of the disease), or reverse a symptom of the disease. Thus, it is not generally practicable to specify an
exact "effective amount". However, for any given case, an appropriate "effective amount" can be
determined by one of ordinary skill in the art using only routine experimentation.
[00112]           Effective amounts, toxicity, and therapeutic efficacy can be determined by standard
pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals, e.g., for determining the LD50 (the
dose lethal to 50% of the population) and the ED50 (the dose therapeutically effective in 50% of the
population). The dosage can vary depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of
administration utilized. The dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index and
can be expressed as the ratio LD50/ED50. Compositions and methods that exhibit large therapeutic
indices are preferred. A therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially from cell culture assays.
Also, a dose can be formulated in animal models to achieve a circulating plasma concentration range that
includes the IC50 (i.e., the concentration of the SREBPI inhibitor, which achieves a half-maximal
inhibition of symptoms) as determined in cell culture, or in an appropriate animal model. Levels in
plasma can be measured, for example, by high performance liquid chromatography. The effects of any
particular dosage can be monitored by a suitable bioassay, e.g., assay for inhibition of SREBP1 activity
or for inhibition of cancer cell proliferation, among others. The dosage can be determined by a physician
and adjusted, as necessary, to suit observed effects of the treatment.
[00113] In certain embodiments, an effective dose of a composition comprising a SREBP1 inhibitor as
described herein can be administered to a patient once. In certain embodiments, an effective dose of a
composition comprising a SREBPI inhibitor can be administered to a patient repeatedly. Patients can be
administered a therapeutic amount of a composition comprising a SREBPI inhibitor, such as, e.g. 0.1
mg/kg, 0.5 mg/kg, 1.0 mg/kg, 2.0 mg/kg, 2.5 mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 15 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, 25 mg/kg,
30 mg/kg, 40 mg/kg, 50 mg/kg, or more. A composition comprising a SREBP1 inhibitor can be
administered over a period of time, such as over a 5 minute, 10 minute., 15 minute, 20 minute, or 25
minute period. If warranted, the administration can be repeated, for example, on a regular basis, such as
hourly for 3 hours, 6 hours, 12 hours or longer or such as biweekly (i.e., every two weeks) for one month,
                                                       35

two months, three months, four months or longer. In some instances, after an initial treatment regimen,
the treatments can be administered on a less frequent basis. For example, after administration biweekly
for three months, administration can be repeated once per month, for six months or a year or longer.
Administration of a composition comprising a SREBP 1 inhibitor can reduce levels of a marker or
symptom of cancer, e.g. the size of a tumor or the rate of growth of a tumor by at least 10%, at least 15%.
at least 20%, at least 25%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%. at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80
% or at least 90% or more.
[00114] The dosage of a composition as described herein can be determined by a physician and
adjusted, as necessary, to suit observed effects of the treatment. With respect to duration and frequency
of treatment, it is typical for skilled clinicians to monitor subjects in order to determine when the
treatment is providing therapeutic benefit, and to determine whether to increase or decrease dosage,
increase or decrease administration frequency, discontinue treatment,. resume treatment, or make other
alterations to the treatment regimen. The dosing schedule can vary from once a week to daily depending
on a number of clinical factors, such as the subject's sensitivity to the SREBP1 inhibitor.
[00115]           In some embodiments, the technology described herein relates to a pharmaceutical
composition comprising a SREBP1 inhibitor as described herein, and optionally a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and diluents include saline, aqueous buffer
solutions, solvents and/or dispersion media. The use of such carriers and diluents is well known in the art.
Some non-limiting examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically-acceptable carriers
include: (1) sugars, such as lactose, glucose and sucrose; (2) starches, such as corn starch and potato
starch; (3) cellulose, and its derivatives, such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, methylcellulose, ethyl
cellulose, microcrystalline cellulose and cellulose acetate; (4) powdered tragacanth; (5) malt; (6) gelatin;
(7) lubricating agents, such as magnesium stearate, sodium lauryl sulfate and talc; (8) excipients, such as
cocoa butter and suppository waxes; (9) oils, such as peanut oil, cottonseed oil, sunflower oil, safflower
oil, sesame oil, olive oil. corn oil and soybean oil; (10) glycols, such as propylene glycol; (11) polyols,
such as glycerin. sorbitol, mannitol and polyethylene glycol (PEG); (12) esters, such as ethyl oleate and
ethyl laurate; (13) agar; (14) buffering agents, such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide;
(15) alginic acid; (16) pyrogen-free water; (17) isotonic saline; (18) Ringer's solution; (19) ethyl alcohol;
(20) pH buffered solutions: (21) polyesters, polycarbonates and/or polyanhydrides; (22) bulking agents,
such as polypeptides and amino acids (23) serum component, such as serum albumin, HDL and LDL;
(22) C2-C]? alcohols, such as ethanol; and (23) other non-toxic compatible substances employed in
pharmaceutical formulations. Wetting agents, coloring agents, release agents, coating agents, sweetening
agents, flavoring agents, perfuming agents, preservative and antioxidants can also be present in the
formulation. The terms such as "excipient", "carrier", "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" or the like
are used interchangeably herein. In some embodiments, the carrier inhibits the degradation of the active
agent, e.g. a SREBPI inhibitor as described herein.
[00116]           The methods described herein can further comprise administering a second agent and/or
treatment to the subject, e.g. as part of a combinatorial therapy. Non-limiting examples of a second agent
                                                        36

and/or treatment can include radiation therapy, surgery, gemcitabine, cisplastin, paclitaxel, carboplatin.,
bortezomib, AMG479, vorinostat, rituximab. temozolomide, rapamycin, ABT-737, PI-103; alkylating
agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN@ cyclosphosphamidc; alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan,
improsulfan and piposulfan; aziridines such as benzodopa, carboquone, meturedopa., and uredopa;
ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine, triethylenemelamine,
trietylenephosphoramide, triethiylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylolomelamine; acetogenins
(especially bullatacin and bullatacinone); a camptothecin (including the synthetic analogue topotecan);
bryostatin; callystatin; CC-1065 (including its adozelesin, carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogues);
cryptophycins (particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8); dolastatin; duocarmycin (including the
synthetic analogues, KW-2189 and CB1-TM1); eleutherobin; pancratistatin; a sarcodictyin; spongistatin;
nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil, chlornaphazine, cholophosphamide, estramustine, ifosfamide,
mechlorethamine, mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride, melphalan, novembichin, phenesterine,
prednimustine, trofosfamide, uracil mustard; nitrosureas such as carmustine, chlorozotocin, fotemustine,
lomustine, nimustine, and ranimnustine; antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics (e.g., calicheamicin.
especially calicheamicin gammall and calicheamicin omegall (see, e.g., Agnew, Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl.,
33: 183-186 (1994)); dynemicin, including dynemicin A; bisphosphonates, such as clodronate; an
esperamicin; as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antiobiotic
chromophores), aclacinomysins, actinomycin, authramycin, azaserine, bleomycins, cactinomycin,
carabicin, caminomycin, carzinophilin, chromomycinis, dactinomycin, daunorubicin, detorubicin, 6
diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine, ADRIAMYCIN@ doxorubicin (including morpholino-doxorubicin.,
cyanomorpholino-doxorubicin, 2-pyrrolino-doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin), epirubicin,. esorubicin,
idarubicin, marcellomycin, mitomycins such as mitomycin C, mycophenolic acid, nogalamycin,
olivomycins, peplomycin, potfiromycin, puromycin, quelamycin, rodorubicin, streptonigrin, streptozocin,
tubercidin. ubenimex, zinostatin, zorubicin; anti-metabolites such as methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil (5
FU); folic acid analogues such as denopterin, methotrexate, pteropterin, trimetrexate; purine analogs such
as fludarabine, 6-mercaptopurine, thiamiprine, thioguanine; pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine,.
azacitidine, 6-azauridine, carmofur, cytarabine, dideoxyuridine., doxifluridine, enocitabine, floxuridine;
androgens such as calusterone, dromostanolone propionate, epitiostanol, mepitiostane, testolactone; anti
adrenals such as aminoglutethimide, mitotane, trilostane; folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid;
aceglatone; aldophosphamide glycoside; aminolevulinic acid; eniluracil; amsacrine; bestrabucil;
bisantrene; edatraxate; defofamine; demecolcine; diaziquone; elformithine; elliptinium acetate; an
epothilone; etoglucid; gallium nitrate; hydroxyurea; lentinan; lonidainine; maytansinoids such as
maytansine and ansamitocins; mitoguazone; mitoxantrone; mopidanmol; nitraerine; pentostatin;
phenamet; pirarubicin; losoxantrone; podophyllinic acid: 2-ethylhydrazide; procarbazine; PSK@
polysaccharide complex (JHS Natural Products, Eugene, Oreg.); razoxane; rhizoxin; sizofuran;
spirogermanium; tenuazonic acid; triaziquone; 2,2',2"-trichlorotriethylamine; trichothecenes (especially
T-2 toxin, verracurin A, roridin A and anguidine); urethan; vindesine; dacarbazine; mannomustine;
mitobronitol; mitolactol; pipobroman; gacytosine; arabinoside ("Ara-C"); cyclophosphamide; thiotepa;
                                                     37

taxoids, e.g., TAXOL@ paclitaxel (Bristol-Myers Squibb Oncology, Princeton, N.J.), ABRAXANE@
Cremophor-free, albumin-engineered nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel (American Pharmaceutical
Partners, Schaumberg, Ill.), and TAXOTERE@ doxetaxel (Rhone-Poulene Rorer, Antony, France);
chloranbucil; GEMZAR@ gemcitabine: 6-thioguanine; mercaptopurine; methotrexate; platinum analogs
such as cisplatin, oxaliplatin and carboplatin; vinblastine; platinum; etoposide (VP-16); ifosfamide;
mitoxantrone; vincristine; NAVELBINE.RTM. vinorelbine; novantrone; teniposide; edatrexate;
daunomycin; aminopterin; xeloda; ibandronate; irinotecan (Camptosar, CPT-l 1) (including the treatment
regimen of irinotecan with 5-FU and leucovorin); topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000;
difluoromethylornithine (DMFO); retinoids such as retinoic acid; capecitabine; combretastatin;
leucovorin (LV); oxaliplatin, including the oxaliplatin treatment regimen (FOLFOX); lapatinib
(Tykerb.RTM.); inhibitors of PKC-alpha, Raf, H-Ras, EGFR (e.g., erlotinib (Tarceva@)) and VEGF-A
that reduce cell proliferation and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, acids or derivatives of any of the
above.
[00117]           In addition, the methods of treatment can further include the use of radiation or radiation
therapy. Further, the methods of treatment can further include the use of surgical treatments.
[00118] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprising a SREBP1 inhibitor as
described herein can be a parenteral dose form. Since administration of parenteral dosage forms typically
bypasses the patient's natural defenses against contaminants, parenteral dosage forms are preferably
sterile or capable of being sterilized prior to administration to a patient. Examples of parenteral dosage
forms include, but are not limited to, solutions ready for injection, dry products ready to be dissolved or
suspended in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle for injection, suspensions ready for injection, and
emulsions. In addition, controlled-release parenteral dosage forms can be prepared for administration of a
patient, including, but not limited to, administration DUROS"-type dosage forms, and dose-dumping.
[00119] Suitable vehicles that can be used to provide parenteral dosage forms of the SREBP1 inhibitor
as disclosed within are well known to those skilled in the art. Examples include, without limitation:
sterile water; water for injection USP: saline solution; glucose solution; aqueous vehicles such as but not
limited to, sodium chloride injection, Ringer's injection, dextrose Injection, dextrose and sodium chloride
injection, and lactated Ringer's injection; water-miscible vehicles such as, but not limited to, ethyl
alcohol. polyethylene glycol, and propylene glycol; and non-aqueous vehicles such as, but not limited to,
corn oil, cottonseed oil, peanut oil, sesame oil, ethyl oleate, isopropyl myristate, and benzyl benzoate.
Compounds that alter or modify the solubility of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a SREBP1
inhibitor as disclosed herein can also be incorporated into the parenteral dosage forms of the disclosure,
including conventional and controlled-release parenteral dosage forms.
[00120] Pharmaceutical compositions comprising a SREBP1 inhibitor can also be formulated to be
suitable for oral administration, for example as discrete dosage forms, such as, but not limited to, tablets
(including without limitation scored or coated tablets), pills, caplets, capsules, chewable tablets, powder
packets. cachets, troches, wafers, aerosol sprays, or liquids, such as but not limited to, syrups, elixirs,
solutions or suspensions in an aqueous liquid, a non-aqueous liquid, an oil-in-water emulsion, or a water
                                                       38

in-oil emulsion. Such compositions contain a predetermined amount of the pharmaceutically acceptable
salt of the disclosed compounds, and may be prepared by methods of pharmacy well known to those
skilled in the art. See generally, Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy, 21st Ed., Lippincott,
Williams, and Wilkins,. Philadelphia PA. (2005).
[00121] In some embodiments, a SREBPI inhibitor as described herein can be administered by
controlled- or delayed-release means. Controlled-release pharmaceutical products have a common goal of
improving drug therapy over that achieved by their non-controlled release counterparts. Ideally, the use
of an optimally designed controlled-release preparation in medical treatment is characterized by a
minimum of drug substance being employed to cure or control the condition in a minimum amount of
time. Advantages of controlled-release formulations include: 1) extended activity of the drug; 2) reduced
dosage frequency; 3) increased patient compliance; 4) usage of less total drug; 5) reduction in local or
systemic side effects; 6) minimization of drug accumulation; 7) reduction in blood level fluctuations; 8)
improvement in efficacy of treatment; 9) reduction of potentiation or loss of drug activity; and 10)
improvement in speed of control of diseases or conditions. Kim, Cherng-ju, Controlled Release Dosage
Form Design, 2 (Technomic Publishing, Lancaster, Pa.: 2000).
[00122] Conventional dosage forms generally provide rapid or immediate drug release from the
formulation. Depending on the pharmacology and pharmacokinetics of the drug, use of conventional
dosage forms can lead to wide fluctuations in the concentrations of the drug in a patient's blood and other
tissues. These fluctuations can impact a number of parameters, such as dose frequency, onset of action,
duration of efficacy, maintenance of therapeutic blood levels, toxicity, side effects, and the like.
Advantageously, controlled-release formulations can be used to control a drug's onset of action, duration
of action, plasma levels within the therapeutic window, and peak blood levels. In particular, controlled
or extended-release dosage forms or formulations can be used to ensure that the maximum effectiveness
of a drug is achieved while minimizing potential adverse effects and safety concerns, which can occur
both from under-dosing a drug (i.e., going below the minimum therapeutic levels) as well as exceeding
the toxicity level for the drug.
[00123] Most controlled-release formulations are designed to initially release an amount of drug (active
ingredient) that promptly produces the desired therapeutic effect, and gradually and continually release
other amounts of drug to maintain this level of therapeutic or prophylactic effect over an extended period
of time. In order to maintain this constant level of drug in the body, the drug must be released from the
dosage form at a rate that will replace the amount of drug being metabolized and excreted from the body.
Controlled-release of an active ingredient can be stimulated by various conditions including, but not
limited to, pH, ionic strength, osmotic pressure, temperature, enzymes, water, and other physiological
conditions or compounds.
[00124] A variety of known controlled- or extended-release dosage forms, formulations, and devices
can be adapted for use with the salts and compositions of the disclosure. Examples include, but are not
limited to, those described in U.S. Pat. Nos.: 3,845,770; 3,916,899; 3,536,809: 3,598,123; 4,008,719;
5674,533; 5,059,595; 5,591 ,767; 5,120,548; 5,073,543; 5,639,476; 5,354,556; 5,733,566; and 6,365,185
                                                       39

BI ; each of which is incorporated herein by reference. These dosage forms can be used to provide slow
or controlled-release of one or more active ingredients using, for example, hydroxypropylmethyl
cellulose, other polymer matrices, gels, permeable membranes, osmotic systems (such as OROS* (Alza
Corporation, Mountain View, Calif. USA)), or a combination thereof to provide the desired release
profile in varying proportions.
[00125]           The description of embodiments of the disclosure is not intended to be exhaustive or to
limit the disclosure to the precise form disclosed. While specific embodiments of, and examples for, the
disclosure are described herein for illustrative purposes, various equivalent modifications are possible
within the scope of the disclosure, as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example, while
method steps or functions are presented in a given order, alternative embodiments may perform functions
in a different order, or functions may be performed substantially concurrently. The teachings of the
disclosure provided herein can be applied to other procedures or methods as appropriate. The various
embodiments described herein can be combined to provide further embodiments. Aspects of the
disclosure can be modified, if necessary, to employ the compositions, functions and concepts of the
above references and application to provide yet further embodiments of the disclosure. These and other
changes can be made to the disclosure in light of the detailed description.
[00126]           Specific elements of any of the foregoing embodiments can be combined or substituted
for elements in other embodiments. Furthermore, while advantages associated with certain
embodiments of the disclosure have been described in the context of these embodiments, other
embodiments may also exhibit such advantages, and not all embodiments need necessarily exhibit such
advantages to fall within the scope of the disclosure.
[00127]           All patents and other publications identified are expressly incorporated herein by
reference for the purpose of describing and disclosing, for example, the methodologies described in such
publications that might be used in connection with the present invention. These publications are provided
solely for their disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing in this regard should
be construed as an admission that the inventors are not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of
prior invention or for any other reason. All statements as to the date or representation as to the contents of
these documents is based on the information available to the applicants and does not constitute any
admission as to the correctness of the dates or contents of these documents.
[00128]           This invention is further illustrated by the following examples which should not be
construed as limiting.
[00129]           Some embodiments of the technology described herein can be defined according to any
of the following numbered paragraphs:
     1. A compound of formula 1, 11, 111 or IV, wherein formulae I. II, III, and IV are:
                                                     (R3)n      R5
                                                   ,B                Re
                                            R 2 -O               R4
                                                           40

                                                         I
            wherein R 1 and R 2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and R 1 and R2 can be
taken together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring;
            R 3 is halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic;
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)R'; -CO 2 RB _
-CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; -SO 2RB; -NO 2 ; -N(R) 2; -NHC(O)R; or -C(R;)3; wherein each occurrence of
RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety;
heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino;
heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
            R4 and R5 are independently hydrogen; halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -CN;
halogen; or hydroxyl;
            R6 is cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic
or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aryl;
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl;
            R7 are independently halogen; cyclic or acyclic. substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=0)RB;
-CO2R"; -; -CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; -SOR; -NO 2; -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(R,) 3; wherein each
occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl;
aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino;
dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
            n is an integer 0-4 inclusive: and
            m is an integer 0-5 inclusive:
                                       (R9 )n      R6      R7
                                                            _  R8
                                                     \               O-R,
                                                                   B
                                                   R5                O-R  2
                                                         R4    R3
                                                        11
            wherein Ri and R2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and R 1 and R 2 can be
taken together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring;
                                                         41

           R3 , R 4 , R5, R6 , R 7 and Rs are independently hydrogen: halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted
or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl;
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aiyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched heteroaryl; B(O)R1R 2 ; -C(=O)RB; -CO 2R; -; -CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; _SO 2 RB; -NO 2 ;
N(R) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3 ; wherein each occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a
protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety; heteroaiyl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy;
alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
           R 9 is independently halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)R;
-CO2RB; -; -CN; -SCN;      -SRB; -SORB; -SORB; -NO 2; -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB)        3; wherein each
occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl;
aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino;
dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo; and wherein R 9 and R or R6 can be taken
together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring; and
           n is an integer 0 to 5. inclusive;
                                                    R8     R9
                                                        -_      R10
                                                R7
                                                                    R11
                                                R6                    O10-R,
                                                    R5                O-R  2
                                                         R4     R3
                                                            III
         wherein R, and R2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and R 1 and R 2 can be taken
together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring; and
           R3 , R4, R5 , R6 , R 7 , Rs, R 9 , Rio and R,1 are independently hydrogen; halogen; cyclic or acyclic,
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched heteroaryl; B(O)RIR 2 ; -C(=O)RB; -CO 2RB; -; -CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; -SO 2 RB;
-NO 2; -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3; wherein each occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen;
halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy;
aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or
alkylhalo;
                                                             42

                                                         (R3)n
                                                 R1-OB               R4
                                                       ,B -/         R4
                                                 R2 -0
                                                            IV
wherein R 1 and R2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and R 1 and R2 can be taken together
to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring;
           R 3 halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic;
cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aryl;
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)R; -CO 2R"; -; -CN; -SCN;
SRB; -SORB; -SO 2 RB; -NO 2 ; -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3 ; wherein each occurrence of RB   is
independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety;
heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino;
heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkyihalo;
           R4 is optionally substituted aryl, or optionally substituted heteroaryl; and
           n is an integer 0-4 inclusive.
    2.   A compound of paragraph 1, wherein the compound is selected from the group consisiting of:
                            /C             0%
              BB
                           BF-175
                 B                            OH             B           /              NO2
                        C     BF-102                      0
                               O N
                         /B                 NO 2
                               0 2N
                B                           NO2          B
                                 2N                     40             N
                                                    0                           0B
                >,~B\                  /\\/
                                                     0
                        0'                             \
                                                       43

                                                  B
                                               0\
                                              00
          B
                                      OHB
                             OH
         d                                  H       dB                 -6        OH
                             \   /                            /               OH
                   dB                                              -
                       00
                                                                                          0
                                   \/
                               -ZHO      OH         B                             OH
                B
                                                                   -O\
                                                                        0      O
                                                            ,an
                                                                       0/
                                        /
            -
              \ B
                                                           an          B
3. A method of treating cancer in a subject, the method comprising administering to the subject an
   inhibitor of sterol regulatory binding protein 1 (SREBP 1) of any of paragraphs 1-2.
4. The method of paragraph 3, further comprising a first step of selecting a subject having cancer
   cells which express abnormal levels of sterol regulatory binding protein 1 (SREBP1).
5. The method of paragraph 4, wherein the cells which express abnormal levels of sterol regulatory
   binding protein 1 (SREBPl) are cells which have abnormal levels of SREBP1 polypeptide.
6. The method of paragraph 3, further comprising a first step of selecting a subject having cancer
   cells which express abnormal amounts of Erb2.
                                                 44

     7.  The method of paragraph 3, further comprising a first step of selecting a subject having cancer
         cells which express abnormal amounts of at least one gene selected from the group consisting of:
                  FASN, SCD1 or ACLY.
     8.  The method of any of paragraphs 3-7, wherein the subject has an endometrial cancer.
     9.  The method of any of paragraphs 3-8. wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting
         of:
                  prostate cancer; breast cancer; colorectal cancer; colorectal carcinoma; hepatocarcinoma;
                  endometrial adenocarcinoma; uterine cancer leukemia; lung cancer; central nervous
                  system cancer; melanoma; ovarian cancer; renal cancer; and pancreatic cancer.
     10. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of any of paragraphs 1-2.
     11. The composition of paragraph 10, further comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
     12. The use of an inhibitor of sterol regulatory binding protein I (SREBP1) of any of paragraphs 1-2
         to treat cancer.
     13. The use of paragraph 12, wherein the cancer is comprised of cells expressing abnormal levels of
         sterol regulatory binding protein 1 (SREBP1).
     14. The use of paragraph 13, wherein the cells which express abnormal levels of sterol regulatory
         binding protein 1 (SREBP1) are cells which have abnormal levels of SREBPl polypeptide.
     15. The use of paragraph 12, wherein the cancer is comprised of cells expressing abnormal amounts
         of Erb2.
     16. The use of paragraph 12, wherein the cancer is comprised of cells expressing abnormal amounts
         of at least one gene selected from the group consisting of:
                  FASN, SCD1 or ACLY.
     17. The use of any of paragraphs 12-16, wherein the cancer is an endometrial cancer.
     18. The use of paragraph 17, wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting of:
                  prostate cancer; breast cancer; colorectal cancer; colorectal carcinoma; hepatocarcinoma;
                  endometrial adenocarcinoma; uterine cancer; leukemia; lung cancer; central nervous
                  system cancer; melanoma; ovarian cancer; renal cancer; and pancreatic cancer.
                                                 EXAMPLES
EXAMPLE 1: Targeting Lipogenic Signaling to Repress Endometrial Cancer Cell Growth
[00130]            Significantly enhanced lipogenesis is a metabolic hallmark of rapidly proliferating tumor
cells. Although most normal cells acquire the bulk of their fatty acids from circulation, tumor cells
synthesize more than 90% of required lipids de novo. The sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1
(SREBP1), encoded by SREBPJ gene, is a master regulator of lipogenic gene expression. Although it is
known that SREBP I and its target genes are overexpressed in a variety of cancers. the role of SREBP 1 in
endometrial cancer (EC) is largely unknown. Herein, a panel of endometrial cancer specimens was
screened for their lipogenic gene expression by quantitative PCR and a significant increase in mRNA
abundance of SREBP1, SREBP2, and FASN genes was found in cancer compared to normal
                                                       45

endometrium. Immunohistochemical staining confirmed SREBP 1 protein overexpression and further
demonstrated increased nuclear distribution of SREBP1 in EC. SREBP1 promotes cellular proliferation
in cell culture and enhances tumor growth in a xenograft model. Knockdown of endogenous SREBPI
gene impaired the viability of cells cultured in medium supplemented with lipid-depleted serum. The
small molecule BF175 repressed SREBP1-dependent gene expression and cell growth and induced EC
cell death. All together, the results presented herein established a role of SREBP1 in EC cell growth and
validated BF175 for its therapeutic effectiveness in targeting SREBP1 and lipogenesis to block EC
proliferation.
Introduction
[00131]           The number of women with newly diagnosed endometrial cancer (EC) increased by 20%
from 1987; however the number of deaths posted a 168% increase during the same time period.
Estimated new cases and deaths from EC in the United States in 2011 are 46,470 and 8,120, respectively
(data available on the world wide web at http://wvww.cancer.gov/cancertopics/types/endometrial).
Epidemiological studies have identified obesity as the most common risk factor for EC. Obese women
have a 2~4 times greater risk of developing EC compared to women of normal weight, regardless of
menopausal status (1-5). As population size affected by this disease is expected to grow, particularly in
developing countries, EC will continue to be a serious public health problem. Sterol regulatory element
binding proteins (SREBPs) are a family of transcription factors that regulate lipid homeostasis by
controlling the expression of multiple enzymes required for cholesterol and fatty acids (FAs) synthesis.
The three SREBP isoforms, SREBPa., SREBPlc and SREBP2, have different roles in lipid synthesis
(6,7). In vivo studies using transgenic and knockout mice suggest that SREBPlc is involved in FA
synthesis and insulin-induced glucose metabolism (particularly in lipogenesis), whereas SREBP2 is
relatively specific in controlling cholesterol synthesis. The SREBPla isoform is implicated in regulating
both cholesterol and FA pathways. SREBP transcription factors are synthesized as inactive precursors
bound to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membranes and their processing is mainly controlled by
cellular sterol content. When sterol level decreases, the precursor undergoes a sequential two-step
cleavage process to release the NH2-terminal active domain in the nucleus (designated nSREBPs), which
then activate SREBP target genes to maintain cholesterol and FAs homeostasis (8-15). The major SREBP
targets include FASN (16,17) and stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD) (18-21). This sterol-sensitive process
appears to be a major point of regulation for the SREBPla and SREBP2 isoforms but not for SREBPlc.
Moreover, the SREBPlc isoform is mainly regulated at the transcriptional level by insulin. The unique
regulation and activation properties of each SREBP isoform facilitate the co-ordinate regulation of lipid
metabolism. At a minimum, SREBP 1 activity refers to the ability of the amino-terminal active domain of
SREBPla to transactive expression from an SRE-containing gene or reporter gene construct. As noted,
SREBP targets include FASN and SCD. Accordingly, an inhibitor of SREPB1 activity will inhibit SRE
mediated transactivation by the amino-terminal active domain of SREBPla. A reporter construct
comprising, for example, a regulatory element comprising one or more SREs can be used to monitor that
effect of an SREBP1 inhibitor on SREBPI-mediated transactivation. Examples of suitable reporter
                                                       46

contructs include the FASN and SCD promoter-driven luciferase reporter constructs described herein in
Example I and the reporter constructs (e.g. the FAS, ACLY, LDLR., HMG, and FPP reporters) described
in Amemiya-Kudo et al. Journal of Lipid Research 2002 43:1220-1235, which is incorporated by
reference herein in its entirety.
[00132]           Lipogenesis is a highly active process in many human cancers. The regulatory function
of SREBP1 suggests a role in sensing and regulating cancer-associated lipogenesis. Increased expression
of SREBP1 has been reported in colorectal carcinoma, breast and prostate cancer, and hepatocarcinoma.
Moreover, elevated expression of SREBP1 coincided with malignant transformation, cancer progression,
and metastasis for several cancer types, particularly hormone-responsive tissues including breast and
prostate cancers (22-25). SREBP1 expression correlates with FASN and Ki-67 expression in colorectal
cancer, indicating a role for SREBPI in supporting rapid cellular proliferation (25). SREBPI is elevated
in clinical prostate cancer samples compared to benign prostatic hypertrophy (26). Gene expression
profiling of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tissue and non-cancerous liver tissue showed increased
lipogenic signaling in HCC. Enhanced SREBPI expression in hepatocellular carcinoma predicts an
increased mortality (22,23). Over-expression of SREBP1 in human hepatoma HuH7 and Hep3B cells
enhanced cellular proliferation and foci formation while siRNA knockdown of SREBP1 in these cells
reduced cell replication and anchorage-independent cell growth (22). A dramatic increase of SREBP1 has
been correlated with the progression of prostate cancer towards androgen-independence (26). Oncogene
transformation of normal breast epithelial cells was accompanied by SREBP1 and FASN over
expression, consistent with the observation of increased SREBP 1 abundance in human breast cancers
(27-29). Previous studies have established that SREBP1, through induction of FASN and subsequent
fatty acids production, regulates PPAR 7 trans-activation (16,30).
[00133]           Despite the relatively clear understanding of enhanced lipogenic signaling, the role of
SREBPI in endometrial cancer is still largely unknown. Given the evidence of elevated expression of
SREBPI transcriptional target genes, the primary focus of this study was to determine the SREBP1
expression status in, for example, endometrial cancer. Demonstrated herein is increased nuclear staining
for SREBP1 in higher grade tumors, suggesting that enhanced SREBP1 transactivation may contribute to
endometrial cancer progression through induction of lipogenic gene expression and lipogenesis.
Knockdown of endogenous SREBP 1 expression using a shRNA approach results in a reduction of
SREBPl target gene expression as well as impaired cellular proliferation and migration. Furthermore, a
small molecule inhibitor of lipogenic signaling, BF 175, is demonstrated to repress tumor cell growth by
targeting SREBP1 -mediated signaling.
Results
[001341           IncreasedSREBP1 expression in endometrial cancer. Previous studies indicated that
lipogenic genes such as FASN are overexpressed in endometrial cancers. The underlying mechanisms
through which EC cells overexpress FASN are not well understood. SREBP1 is the major transcription
factor which binds to FASN gene promoter and positively regulates FASN expression. It was
hypothesized that elevated SREBP 1 expression and/or activity may contribute to enhanced FASN
                                                       47

expression in EC. In order to determine the levels of SREBPl expression, immunohistochemical staining
was performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections using anti-SREBP1 antibody. Nuclear and
cytoplasmic SREBPI abundance was scored for both matured and precursor forms, respectively.
SREBP1 was detected in both normal and cancerous tissues. SREBP1 was found to be overexpressed in
poorly-differentiated EC. Nuclear localization of SREBP1 was frequently seen in poorly-differentiated
tumors (grade 2-3), but not in well-differentiated tumors (grade 1) (Fig 1A and data not shown). The
majority of SREBP1 was found in the cytoplasm of epithelial cells of normal endometrium and well
differentiated tumors, while nuclear SREBP I was detected in high-grade from moderately differentiated
to poorly differentiated tumors (Figs. 2A-2F). These observations suggest a role of activated SREBP1 in
endometrial cancer progression.
[00135]           SREBP1 abundance was regulated at either transcriptional or post-translational levels
(31,32). The increased protein expression may be due to enhanced gene expression. To confirm this,
quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis was performed on a panel of cDNA samples prepared
from surgically resected samples and the transcript levels of SREBPs and SCD 1, a transcriptional target
of SREBPs, was compared between normal and cancerous tissues. As shown in Fig. 1A, cancer tissue
exhibited markedly reduced SREBPla and SREBP2. No significant difference of SREBPlc expression
was observed. Meanwhile, the mRNA levels of SCD1 were significantly increased in cancer, which
keeps in line with increased SREBP I protein expression and activation as evidenced by nuclear
translocation. Reduced mRNA expression and increased protein abundance suggest mechanisms by
which SREBP1 protein is stabilized in cancer.
[00136]          SREBPJ is responsiblefr lipogenic gene expression in endometrial cancer cells.
Having established the correlation between SREBP1 expression and endometrial cancer progression, it
was determined whether SREBP I contributes to tumorigenesis. In order to do so, an initial screening for
SREBP I expression was performed in five commonly used endometrial cell lines including ECC, HEC
1-A, RL95-2, KLE, and AN3-CA. SREBPl expression was undetectable in the well-differentiated ECC
1 cells and highly expressed in medium and poorly differentiated RL95-2 and AN3-CA cells (data not
shown). Since SREBPI antibody cannot differentiate SREBPla and SREBPlc, qRT-PCR was performed
to determine which SREBP1 isoform was predominantly expressed. As shown in Fig. 2B. the RL95-2
cells express both isoforms at relatively high levels. AN3-CA expresses SREBPla, but not SREBPlc.
The expression levels of SREBP target genes including FASN, SCD, and ACLY were also determined.
Relatively high expression of FASN, SCD1, and ACLY were detected in AN3-CA cells (Fig. 2A). AN3
CA cells were choosen for most experiments in this study due to the relatively high levels of lipogenic
gene expressions. To test whether the endogenous SREBP1 is required for lipogenic gene expression,
SREBPl gene expression was knocked-down using a shRNA approach (33). Over 90% knockdown
efficiency was achieved at both protein and mRNA levels (Fig. 2C). The expression of SREBP1 target
genes was also significantly reduced (Fig. 2D), indicating a partial SREBP1 dependency of these genes.
[00137]          SREBP1 is requiredfor cellularproliferationand migration. Cell proliferation is tightly
controlled by mitogenic signaling and requires the activation of biosynthetic pathways for the generation
                                                       48

of macromolecules, including proteins and lipids. Given the evidence that SREBPI regulates lipogenesis,
the metabolic process that supplies cells with lipids, it was expected that the knockdown of endogenous
SREBP1 would reduce cellular proliferation and cell growth. In order to determine the functional
consequences of SREBP1 inactivity in cell culture, cells with either knockdown of SREBP1 by shRNA
or vector control were compared. The same number of each group of cells were seeded and counted for 5
days. Reduced cell number was observed in shSREBPl expressing cells (Fig. 2E). It has been previously
shown that suppression of lipogenic signaling reduces cellular migration. To test whether SREBP1 is
involved in cell migration, transwell assays were conducted, in which the knockdown of endogenous
SREBP1 significantly inhibited the cell migration (Fig. 2F).
[00138             BF 75, a sinall molecule inhibitor,represses hpogenesis in vivo. To further examine
whether BF175 has any effect in regulating lipid homeostasis, Drosophila larvae were fed fly food
containing 100 VM of BF175 from hatching to the third instar larvae. Lipids were then stained and
quantified with Oil Red 0. As shown in Fig. 3A, the wild-type larvae fed with 100 pM of BF175 in food
have 20~25% reduction of the fat levels compared to the control food with DMSO. Similar results were
observed with 50uM or 200uM of BF175, or BF102, a compound similar to BF175. These results suggest
that BF175 (and BF102) has a conserved role in inhibiting lipogenesis in whole organisms. At 200 pM,
both compounds do not affect the Drosophila development and viability, and adult flies fed with food
mixed with these compounds also do not have any obvious effect on life span (data not shown),
suggesting that these compounds are not toxic to Drosophila.
[00139             BF1 75 represses SREBPJ activity and lipogenic gene expression. It was investigated
whether that inhibition of lipogenic signaling could provide therapeutic intervention of endometrial
cancer progression. BF 175 repression of lipogenesis suggests that tumor cell growth might be alleviated
by this agent. AC3-CA cells were treated with increased doses of BF175. BF175 markedly reduced the
protein expression of ACLY and SCDI, as well as FASN to a lesser extent (Fig. 3B). This is consistent
with the observation made above herein, that the knockdown of SREBP1 only led to 30% reduction of
FASN mRNA levels (Fig. 2D). Previous reports also showed that FASN gene expression is controlled by
multiple signaling pathways (16,25,27,35-38). qRT-PCR assays were conducted to determine the mRNA
levels of these genes in cells treated with BF175. All three forms of SREBPs were significantly repressed.
The expression of FASN, SCD and ACLY genes were also inhibited (Fig. 3C). The pyruvate kinase (PK)
encoded by the PKLR gene is involved in lipogenesis, but not regulated by SREBP1. No change in
PKLR gene expression was observed in cells exposed to BF175, suggesting SREBP1-specific signaling
is targeted. It is no surprise to see that the mRNA expression of SREBPs was also repressed since
SREBP1 positively regulates its gene expression through a feed-forward mechanism (31).
[00140]            Both SCD and FASN are transcriptional targets of SREBPl. Using the FASN or SCD
promoter-driven luciferase reporter as surrogate measures of SREBP1 activity (Fig. 3D., 3E), it was
determined whether BF 175 regulates the gene expression by targeting their transcription. Experiments
were conducted in AN3-CA and human embryonic kidney HEK 293 cells showing that BF175 potently
represses FASN and SCD reporter activity in a dose-dependent manner (Fig. 3D, 3E).
                                                       49

[00141]            BF175 inhibits endometrial cancercell growth. Since the results described above herein
demonstrate that SREBP1 is required for cellular proliferation and BF 175 targeted SREBPI for
repression, it was next tested whether BF 175 inhibition of SREBP1 could reduce cell growth. Five cell
lines were incubated with different doses of BF175 for 24 hrs, and MTT assays were conducted to
measure cell viability. BF175 treatment significantly inhibited the growth of AN3-CA and RL95-2 cells.
Little or no effect was observed in ECC 1, HECIA and KLE cells, where lower SREBP1 expression was
detected (Fig. 4A). These results further confirmed that BF 175 functions in an SREBP 1-dependent
manner. Cell growth was also determined by the total cell number in BF 175 treated cells, showing a
significant reduction of cells in a dose dependent manner (Fig. 4B)
[00142]            To better understand the mechanisms by which BF 175 inhibition of SREBP1 impairs
cell growth, AN3-CA cells were starved with serum-free medium for 48 hrs. then released by supplying
cells with 10% serum and BrdU in the presence and absence of BF 175. After 6 hrs, cells were stained for
BrdU incorporated in the newly synthesized DNA. BrdU-positive cells were counted and calculated as a
percentage of total cell number. No significant change in the number of BrdU-positive cells was found
between BF175 treated and control groups (Fig. 4C), indicating that SREBP1 inhibition by BF175 does
not block DNA synthesis in response to mitogen signaling.
[00143             BF] 75-dependent induction of apoptotic and autophagiccell death. It has been
previously shown that inhibition of SREBP1 sensitizes cells to death ligand and evasion of cell death
contributes to the net cell growth (39). It has been hypothesized that BF175 inhibition of cell growth
could also be due to the enhanced cell death. To test this idea, several approaches were used. First, the
sub-GI population of cells treated with BF 175 or control were analyzed. Cells treated with BF 175 for 24
hrs were subjected to flow cytometry assays, showing that BF 175 markedly increased the cells in sub-GI
cell population (Fig. 5A). BF 175-treated cells were also analyzed by Annexin V staining to determine the
apoptotic cell death. Cells that are in early apoptosis are Annexin V positive and 7-AAD negative; while
cells that are in late apoptosis are both Annexin V and 7-AAD positive. As demonstrated in Figure 5B,
the percentage of early apoptotic cells increased from 1.8l1% to 5.92%, a three-time induction of cell
death by BF 175. This observation was further confirmed by TUNEL staining showing a dramatic
increase of apoptotic cell death in the presence of BF175 (data not shown). A primary cellular response
to nutrient deprivation is the induction of autophagy. Whether blockage of SREBP1 induces cells to
undergo autophagy was examined. AN3-CA cells were transduced with retroviral vector encoding GFP
LC3 or GFP as previously described (40). GFP-positive cells enriched by FACs sorting were treated with
BF 175. An increased number of punctate dots, indicative of autophagosome accumulation, were found in
BF 175 treated cells (data not shown).
[00144             BF] 75 represses SREBP1-dependent transcription. To understand mechanistically how
BF 175 regulates SREBPI activity, an assay using SREBP1 gene promoter driven luciferase reporter as
described previously (41) was conducted. The truncated promoter reporter was first tested for
responsiveness to BF 175 (Fig. 6A). The minimal promoter (90-bp) reporter activity was repressed
equally well as the full-length (2,600-bp), suggesting the responsive element was restricted to the 90 base
                                                       50

pairs of SREBP] promoter region. As previously identified, Ebox, SRE and SpI were main sites within
this region. Using promoter reporter with mutation of each individual site as illustrated in Figure 6C, it
was demonstrated that SRE mutant reporter is less responsive to BF175 repression, suggesting that
SREBPs,. rather than Ebox or Sp I binding proteins, were targeted by BF175 (Fig. 6D).
Discussion
[00145]           The results described herein establish a role of SREBP1 in endometrial cancer cell
proliferation. Enhanced lipogenic gene expression and lipogenesis are required for cancer cell
proliferation. It has been previously established that lipogenic signaling controls cellular proliferation. By
targeting SREBPI expression and/or activity using shRNA and pharmacological approaches, it is
possible to block the cell growth. The SREBPI gene knockdown experiment described herein established
a role of SREBP1     in supporting cellular proliferation and migration.
[001461           Tumor growth is the net gain of cell population, which is contributed to by both cell
proliferation and cell death. BF 175 treatment reduced cell viability and total cells numbers as measured
by MTT assay. BF 175 did not inhibit BrdU incorporation into newly synthesized DNA, suggesting that
BF175 may not block the Gl/S transition, which is a critical step for rapidly proliferating cells.
Knockdown of SREBPl expression sensitizes cells to lipid depletion and leads to cell death under lipid
free culture condition (data not shown). This is in complete agreement with the observation that BF175
induces cell death.
[00147]           The current study addressed an important question of whether SREBP1 is responsible for
enhanced lipogenesis in tumors, which contributes to cancer progression. Targeting SREBPI activity
provides an approach to repress cell growth. It is demonstrated herein that synthetic SREBP1 inhibitors
are effective in blocking cancer cell growth by inhibiting cellular proliferation and by inducing cell death.
BF175 and its analogs can serve as lead compounds for pharmacological intervention in cancer
progression.
Materials and Methods
[00148]           Endometrialcancer specimens andImnmunohistochenistry (IHQ staining. Formalin
fixed and paraffin-embedded tumor specimens used in this study were from a commercial source
(Creative Biolabs, Shirley, NY) and from the tissue bank of the       9 0" Hospital of Jinan, China. All tumors
were primary and untreated before surgery with complete clinicopathological information. All patients
received radical mastectomy or modified radical mastectomy; the axillary lymph nodes were routinely
dissected, and lymph node metastasis was determined based on histological examination. Tumor size was
defined as the maximum tumor diameter measured on the tumor specimens at the time of operation.
Endometrial cancer tissues from the     9 0 th Hospital of Jinan were built into a 60-core array with 2 mm
diameter of the core size. Adjacent normal tissues were included for some cancer tissues.
[00149]           IHC staining for SREBP1 was performed on the paraffin-embedded tissue blocks in the
Kimmel Cancer Center Pathology Core Facility at Thomas Jefferson University. Hematoxylin and eosin
(H&E) staining were reviewed to ensure the cancer tissue and normal epithelia. IHC staining for these
markers was performed on 5-p m thick sections. Briefly, tissue slides were de-paraffinized with xylene
                                                          51

and rehydrated through a graded alcohol series. The endogenous peroxidase activity was blocked by
incubation in a 3% hydrogen peroxide solution for 15 minutes. Antigen retrieval was carried out by
immersing the slides in 10 mM sodium citrate buffer (pH 6.0) and maintained at a sub-boiling
temperature for 5 minutes, The slides were rinsed in phosphate-buffered saline and incubated with 10%
normal serum to block non-specific staining. The slides were then incubated with the primary antibody
(anti-SREBP1, K-10, Santa Cruz) overnight at 4'C in a humidified chamber.
[00150]          All staining was assessed by pathologists blinded to the origination of the samples using
a semi-quantitative method. The widely accepted German semi-quantitative scoring system in
considering the staining intensity and area extent was used. Each specimen was assigned a score
according to the intensity of the nucleic and cytoplasmic staining (no staining = 0; weak staining = 1,
moderate staining = 2, strong staining = 3) and the extent of stained cells (0% = 0, 1-10% = 1, 11-50%    =
2. 51-80% = 3, 8 1-100% = 4). The final immunoreactive score was determined by multiplying the
intensity score with the extent of score of stained cells, ranging from 0 (the minimum score) to 12 (the
maximum score). SREBP I expression was defined as low (scored 0-4), medium (score 5-8), and high (9
12).
[00151]          PlasInids,antibodies,and reagents. shRNA targeting human SREBP1 was described
previously (33). The 1000-bp promoter of FASN was amplified from genomic DNA of AN3-CA cells
and subeloned into Kpn I/Bgl 11 of pGL3 -basic vector (Promega). Mouse Sedl promoter-driven
luciferase reporter was described previously (42). pcDNA3-FLAG-SREBPla was obtained from
Addgene (43). All the mutant constructs for SREBP1 promoter-driven luciferase reporter were described
previously (41). The retroviral vector (MSCV-IRES-GFP) expressing GFP-LC3 was described
previously by the inventors (40). Anti-SREBP1 (K-10 and H-160), anti-FASN (H300), anti-actin (C4)
were purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology (Santa Cruz, CA). Anti-SCD (MC38) was purchased
from Cell Signaling Technology (Danvers, MA). Anti-ACLY was from Abcam (Cat.# ab40993,
Cambridge, MA).
[00152]          Cell culture. The human embryonic kidney 293T cells (HEK293T) were maintained in
DMEM containing I% penicillin/streptomycin and supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FB S).
Endometrial cancer cell lines including ECC-1, HEC-1A, RL95-2, KLE, and AN3-CA were purchased
from the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC). The basal culture medium are: RPMI-1640 (ECC
1), McCoy's 5a (HEC-1A), DMEM:F12 (RL95-2, KLE), and Eagle's Minimum Essential Medium (AN3
CA). For cell maintenance, the basal medium was supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS).
Under lipid-free culture condition as indicated, the basal medium was supplemented with 5% lipid
depleted FBS purchased from Cocalico Biologicals (Reamstown, PA) (Cat. # 55-0116).
[00153]          Transfection, transductionand luciferase reporter assays. For transient transfection,
SUPERFECTTM transfection reagent was used following manufacturer's protocol (Qiagen, Valencia,
CA). For cell transduction, retroviruses were prepared by transient co-transfection with helper virus into
HEK 293T cells using calcium phosphate precipitation. HEK 293T cells were transfected with plasmid
DNA and cultured at 370 C for 6 hrs, the medium was replaced and after 36 h the supernatant was
                                                       52

collected and filtered through a 0.45 pim filter. Cells were infected at approximately 70% confluence in
DMEM supplemented with 8 jLg/ml of polybrene. The following day the medium was changed to basal
medium supplemented with 10% FBS and cultured for further assay.
[00154]          Luciferase assays were performed as previously described (44). Briefly, cells were
seeded at 50% confluence in a 24-well plate on the day prior to transfection. Cells were transiently
transfected with the appropriate combination of the reporter (300 ng per well), expression vectors
(calculated as molar concentration equal to 300 ng of control vector), and control vector (300 ng per
well) via calcium phosphate precipitation for HEK 293T or LIPOFECTAMINE 2000TM (Invitrogen,
Carlsbad, CA) for remaining cell lines according to the manufacturer's instructions. 24 hours post
transfection. luciferase assays were performed at room temperature using an AUTOLUMAT LB 953TM
(EG&G Berthold). The data are shown as mean ± SEM from at least two separate experiments with
triplicate samples each.
[001551          RNA isolation, quantitative real-time PCR. Total RNA was prepared using TRIZOLTM
reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) following manufacturer's instructions. 5 pg of total RNA was
subjected to reverse transcription to synthesize cDNA using the SUPERSCRIPTT          II Reverse
Transcriptase Kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). A 25 ptl volume reaction consisted of 1 pl reverse
transcription product and 100 nM of each primer. The primers used for qRT-PCR are listed as below:
Table 1
Gene         Forwardprimersequence                 Seq     Reverse primer sequence            SEQ     Amplico
symbol                                             ID                                        ID       n size
                                                   No:                                        No:
SREBP1       5'-                                   13       5'-                               22      104bp
a            CGGCGCTGCTGACCGACAT                            CCCTGCCCCACTCCCAGC
             C                                             AT
SREBP1       5'-                                   14       5'-                               23      116bp
c            GCGCAGATCGCGGAGCCAT                            CCCTGCCCCACTCCCAGC
                                                           AT
SREBP2       5'-                                   15       5'-                               24      140bp
             CAAGCTTCTAAAGGGCATC                           AGTAGGGAGAGAAGCCAG
             G                                              CC
FANS         5'-                                   16       5'-                               25      97bp
             CACAGGGACAACCTGGAGT                           ACTCCACAGGTGGGAACA
             T                                             AG
SCD1         5'-                                   17       5'-                               26      70bp
             CGACGTGGCTTTTTCTTCTC                           CCTTCTCTTTGACAGCTGG
                                                            G
ACLY         5'-                                   18       5'-                               27      137bp
             GCCCATCCCCAACCAGCCA                            TTGCAGGCGCCACCTCATC
             C                                              G
ADIPOQ       5'-                                   19       5'-                               28      168bp
             TCCTGCCAGTAACAGGGAA                           AGGGGAAGTGTCAGTACC
             G                                              CG
aP2          5'-                                   20       5'-                               29      122bp
             CTCTCCGTTCAGATTGAAG                           AATCCCGCCTCCATCCTAA
             GGG                                            CT
GAPDH        5'-                                   21       5'-                               30      103bp
             GAGTCAACGGATTTGGTCG                            TTGAGGTCAATGAAGGGG
                                                       53

             T                                            TC
[00156]           Cellularproliferation,migration and apoptosis assays. Cells were stably transfected
with shRNA targeting SREBP1 and control were subjected to TRANSWELLTM migration assays. Cells
were seeded on an 8 ptm-pore size TRANSWELLTM filter insert (Costar) coated with ECM (Sigma, St.
Louis, MO) at a density of lx 10' cells in each well in DMEM containing 10% FBS. After 6 h of
incubation at 37 'C and 5% CO 2 , cells adherent to the upper surface of the filter were removed using a
cotton applicator. Cells were stained with 0.4% crystal violet dissolved in methanol, and the numbers of
cells on the bottom were counted. Data are from at least three experiments done in triplicate (mean
SEM).
[00157]           TRANSWELL TM migration assays were described in our prior publications (45,46).
2.5x10^4 cells were seeded on an 8 [um-pore size TRANSWELLTM filter insert (Corning Inc., Corning,
NY) coated with ECM (1:7.5) (Sigma, St. Louis, MO). After 6 h of incubation at 37 0 C and 5% CO2, cells
adherent to the upper surface of the filter were removed using a cotton applicator. Cells were stained with
0.4% crystal violet dissolved in methanol, and the numbers of cells on the bottom were counted.
[00158]           Cell death was determined by PE Annexin V Apoptosis Detection Kit (BD Biosciences)
and TACS 2 TdT-DAB In Situ Apoptosis Detection Kit (Trevigen, Gaithersburg, MD) following
manufacturer's instructions.
[00159]            Mixing the BF175 in the Drosophilafood,IM stock solution of BF175, or BF102 are
made in DMSO, and further diluted and mixed in melted fly food for the final concentrations of 50uM,
1OOuM and 200uM, and the control food was mixed with the equivalent amount of DMSO. Wild-type
(wI 118) flies were allowed to embryos on these food and female larvae at the third instar wandering
stage were analyzed for the Oil Red 0 staining.
[00160]           Oil Red 0 staining and quantiflcation.Drosophila larvae were dissected in PBS and then
fixed in 4% formalin in PBS for 15 min at room temperature. They were stained with 5 ml of 0.036% Oil
Red 0 for 25 min, rinsed once with 70% isopropanol and distilled water. After being dried overnight, the
Oil Red 0 from each larva was extracted in 0.3 ml of isopropanol and the O.D. at 510 nm was measured.
One-tailed t-test was used for statistical analysis.
References:
I.       Bratos, K., Roszak, A., Cikowska-Wozniak, E., and Niecewicz., P. (2002) Ginekol Pol 73, 945
950
2.       Gull, B., Karlsson, B., Milsom, I., and Granberg, S. (2001) Am J Obstet Gynecol 185, 386-391
3.       Weiderpass, E., Persson, I.. Adami., H. 0., Magnusson, C., Lindgren, A., and Baron, J. A. (2000)
Cancer Causes Control 11, 185-192
4.       Shoff, S. M., and Newcomb, P. A. (1998) Am J Epidemiol 148, 234-240
                                                      54

5.       Goodman, M. T., Hankin, J. H., Wilkens, L. R., Lyu. L. C.. McDuffie, K., Liu, L.    Q., and
Kolonel, L. N. (1997) Cancer Res 57, 5077-5085
6.       Hua, X., Wu. J., Goldstein, J. L., Brown, M. S., and Hobbs, H. H. (1995) Genomics 25, 667-673
7.       Edwards, P. A., Tabor, D., Kast, H. R., and Venkateswaran, A. (2000) Biochim Biophys Acta
1529, 103-113
8.       Wang, X., Zelenski, N. G., Yang, J., Sakai, J., Brown, M. S., and Goldstein, J. L. (1996) EMBO
J 15, 1012-1020
9.       Wang, X., Sato, R., Brown, M. S., Hua, X., and Goldstein, J. L. (1994) Cell 77, 53-62
10.      Hua, X., Yokoyama, C., Wu, J., Briggs, M. R., Brown, M. S., Goldstein, J. L., and Wang, X.
(1993) Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 90, 11603-11607
11.      Yokoyama, C., Wang, X., Briggs, M. R., Admon, A., Wu, J., Hua, X., Goldstein, J. L., and
Brown, M. S. (1993) Cell 75, 187-197
12.      Briggs, M. R., Yokoyama, C., Wang, X., Brown, M. S., and Goldstein, J. L. (1993) J Biol Chem
268, 14490-14496
13.      Wang, X., Briggs, M. R., Hua. X., Yokoyama, C., Goldstein, J. L., and Brown, M. S. (1993) J
Biol Chem 268, 14497-14504
14.      Shimano, H. (2001) Prog Lipid Res 40, 439-452
15.      Horton, J. D., and Shimomura, I. (1999) Curr Opin Lipidol 10, 143-150
16.      Kim, J. B., and Spiegelman, B. M. (1996) Genes Dev 10, 1096-1107
17.      Liang, G., Yang, J., Horton, J. D., Hammer, R. E., Goldstein, J. L., and Brown, M. S. (2002) J
Biol Chem 277, 9520-9528
18.      Bene, H., Lasky, D., and Ntambi, J. M. (2001) Biochem Biophys Res Commun 284, 1194-1198
19.      Ntambi, J. M. (1999) J Lipid Res 40, 1549-1558
20.      Tabor, D. E., Kim. J. B., Spiegelman, B. M., and Edwards, P. A. (1999) J Biol Chem 274, 20603
20610
21.      Shimomura, I., Shimano, H., Korn, B. S., Bashmakov, Y., and Horton, J. D. (1998) J Biol Chem
273, 35299-35306
22.      Yamashita, T., Honda, M., Takatori, H., Nishino, R., Minato, H., Takamura, H., Ohta, T., and
Kaneko, S. (2009) J Hepatol 50, 100-110
23.      Yahagi, N., Shimano, H., Hasegawa, K.. Ohashi, K., Matsuzaka, T., Najima, Y., Sekiya, M.,
Tomita, S., Okazaki, H., Tamura, Y., lizuka, Y., Nagai, R., Ishibashi, S., Kadowaki, T., Makuuchi, M.,
Ohnishi, S., Osuga, J., and Yamada, N. (2005) Eur J Cancer 41, 1316-1322
24.      Yang, Y. A., Morin, P. J., Han, W. F., Chen, T., Bornman, D. M., Gabrielson, E. W., and Pizer,
E. S. (2003) Exp Cell Res 282, 132-137
25.      Li, J. N., Mahmoud, M. A., Han, V. F., Ripple, M., and Pizer, E. S. (2000) Exp Cell Res 261,
159-165
26.      Ettinger, S. L., Sobel, R., Whitmore, T. G., Akbari, M., Bradley, D. R., Gleave, M. E., and
Nelson, C. C. (2004) Cancer Res 64, 2212-2221
                                                      55

27.      Furuta, E., Pai, S. K., Zhan, R., Bandyopadhyay, S., Watabe., M., Mo, Y. Y., Hirota, S., Hosobe,
S., Tsukada, T., Miura, K., Kamada, S., Saito, K., Iiizumi, M., Liu, W., Ericsson., J., and Watabe, K.
(2008) Cancer Res 68., 1003-1011
28.      Yoon, S., Lee, M. Y., Park, S. W., Moon, J. S., Koh, Y. K., Ahn, Y. H., Park, B. W., and Kim, K.
S. (2007) J Biol Chem 282, 26122-26131
29.      Yang, Y. A., Han, W. F., Morin, P. J,. Chrest, F. J., and Pizer, E. S. (2002) Exp Cell Res 279. 80
90
30.      Kim, J. B., Wright, H. M., Wright, M., and Spiegelman, B. M. (1998) Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
95, 4333-4337
31.      Chen, G., Liang, G., Ou, J., Goldstein, J. L., and Brown, M. S. (2004) Proc Nati Acad Sci U S A
101, 11245-11250
32.      Walker, A. K., Yang, F., Jiang, K., Ji, J. Y., Watts, J. L.,. Purushotham, A., Boss, O., Hirsch, M.
L., Ribich, S., Smith, J. J., Israclian, K., Westphal., C. H., Rodgers, J. T., Shioda, T., Elson, S. L.,
Mulligan, P., Najafi-Shoushtari, H., Black, J. C., Thakur, J. K., Kadyk, L. C., Whetstine, J. R.,
Mostoslavsky, R., Puigserver, P., Li, X., Dyson, N. J., Hart, A. C., and Naar, A. M. (2010) Genes Dev
24, 1403-1417
33.      Taghibiglou, C., Martin, H. G., Lai, T. W., Cho, T., Prasad, S., Kojic, L., Lu, J., Liu, Y., Lo, E.,
Zhang, S., Wu, J. Z., Li, Y. P., Wen, Y. H., Imm, J. H., Cynader, M. S., and Wang, Y. T. (2009) Nat Med
15, 1399-1406
34.      Das, B. C., Zhao, X., Tang, X. Y., and Yang, F. (2011) Bioorg Med Chem Lett 21, 5638-5641
35.      Van de Sande, T., De Schrijver, E., Heyns, W., Verhoeven, G., and Swinnen, J. V. (2002) Cancer
Res 62, 642-646
36.      Porstmann, T., Griffiths, B., Chung, Y. L., Delpuech, 0., Griffiths, J. R., Downward, J., and
Schulze, A. (2005) Oncogene 24, 6465-6481
37.      Bennett, M. K., Lopez, J. M., Sanchez, H. B., and Osbornc, T. F. (1995) J Biol Chem 270,
25578-25583
38.      Choi., W. I., Jeon, B. N., Park, H., Yoo, J. Y., Kim., Y. S., Koh, D. I., Kim, M. H., Kim, Y. R.,
Lee, C. E., Kim, K. S., Osborne, T. F., and Hur, M. W. (2008) J Biol Chem 283, 29341-29354
39.      Eberhard, Y., Gronda, M., Hurren, R., Datti, A., MacLean, N., Ketela, T., Moffat, J., Wrana, J.
L., and Schimmer, A. D. (2011) Oncotarget 2, 186-196
40.      Zhou, J., Zhang, W., Liang, B., Casimiro, M. C., Whitaker-Menezes. D., Wang, M., Lisanti, M.
P., Lanza-Jacoby, S., Pestell, R. G., and Wang, C. (2009) Int J Biochem Cell Biol 41, 2334-2342
41.      Amemiya-Kudo, M., Shimano, H., Yoshikawa, T., Yahagi, N., Hasty, A. H., Okazaki, H.,
Tamura, Y., Shionoiri, F., lizuka, Y., Ohashi, K., Osuga, J., Harada. K., Gotoda, T.. Sato, R., Kimura, S.,
Ishibashi, S., and Yamada, N. (2000) J Biol Chem 275, 31078-31085
42.      Chu, K., Miyazaki, M., Man, W. C., and Ntambi, J. M. (2006) Mol Cell Biol 26, 6786-6798
43.      Toth, J. I., Datta, S., Athanikar, J. N., Freedman, L. P., and Osborne, T. F. (2004) Mol Cell Biol
24, 8288-8300
                                                         56

44.      Wang, C., Fu., M., D'Amico, M., Albanese, C., Zhou, J. N., Brownlee, M., Lisanti, M. P.,
Chatterjee, V. K., Lazar, M. A.. and Pestell, R. G. (2001) Mol Cell Biol 21, 3057-3070
45.      Zhou, J., Liu, Y., Zhang, W., Popov, V. M., Wang, M., Pattabiraman, N., Sune, C., Cvekl, A.,
Wu, K., Jiang, J., Wang, C., and Pestell, R. G. (2010) J Biol Chem
46.      Meng, H., Tian, L., Zhou, J.. Li, Z., Jiao, X., Li, W. W., Plomann, M., Xu, Z., Lisanti, M. P.,
Wang, C., and Pestell, R. G. (2011) Cell Cycle 10, 73-81
EXAMPLE 2
[00161]           According to the statistics published by American Cancer Society, about 1,596,670 new
cancer cases were expected to be diagnosed in 2011. The National Cancer Institute estimates that
approximately 11.7 million Americans with a history of cancer were alive in 2007. Epidemiological
studies have identified obese and obesity as the most common risk factors for cancer. Obese patients
have a 2-4 times greater risk of developing endometrial, breast and colon and liver cancers compared to
population of normal weight. As population size affected by obese and obesity is expected to grow,
particularly in developing countries, cancer will continue to be a serious public health problem. The
significantly enhanced lipogenesis is a metabolic hallmark of rapidly proliferating tumor cells. Further,
there is currently no effective therapy to target both obesity and cancer. Although most normal cells
acquire the bulk of their fatty acids from circulation, tumor cells synthesize more than 90% of required
lipids de novo. The sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP1), encoded by SREBP1 gene, as
described herein, is a master regulator of lipogenic gene expression. The inventors' work has strongly
associated altered lipogenic signaling in cancer with oncogene ErbB2 and estrogen receptor status in
breast cancer.
[00162]           To broadly explore possible targets of BF 175, a microarray expression
analysis of cells treated with BF175 compared to control was conducted. The microarray analyses
detected that the mRNA expression of 472 genes was differentially increased, while that of 542 was
decreased in BF175 treated cells. INGENUITYTM analysis of these BF175-regulated genes revealed
"Lipid Metabolism" as the most significant function (Table 2). Of those BF 175 down-regulated genes, 48
genes were directly involved in catalyzing and converting the glucose to produce either lipids or
cholesterol (Figs. 6A-6D, and Table 2). A considerable number of these BF175 genes have been reported
as SREBP1 targets, including SREBP1 and SREBP2, suggesting that BF175 directly
regulates SREBPI activity. Furthermore, the significant overlap between this dataset and those
from previously published SREBP 1 gene signature again confirmed the specificity of BF 175.
Example 3
[00163]           NCI60 testing was performed in 59 cell lines with BF175 at a single dose of 10^ molar.
The one-dose data was reported as a mean graph of the percent growth of treated cells. The number
reported for the one-dose assay is growth relative to the no-drug control, and relative to the time zero
number of cells. This allows detection of both growth inhibition (values between 0 and 100) and lethality
(values less than 0). For example, a value of 100 means no growth inhibition. A value of 40 would mean
                                                        57

60% growth inhibition. A value of 0 means no net growth over the course of the experiment. A value of
40 would mean 40% lethality. A value of -100 means all cells are dead.
[00164]           The human tumor cell lines of the cancer screening panel were grown in RPMI 1640
medium containing 5% fetal bovine serum and 2 mM L-glutamine. Cells were inoculated into 96 well
microtiter plates in 100 pL at plating densities ranging from 5,000 to 40,000 cells/well depending on the
doubling time of individual cell lines. After cell inoculation, the microtiter plates were incubated at 370
C, 5 % CO 2, 95 % air and 100 % relative humidity for 24 h prior to addition of BF175. After 24 h, two
plates of each cell line were fixed in situ with TCA, to represent a measurement of the cell population for
each cell line at the time of drug addition (Tz). BF 175 was solubilized in dimethyl sulfoxide at 400-fold
the desired final maximum test concentration and stored frozen prior to use. At the time of drug addition,
an aliquot of frozen concentrate was thawed and diluted to twice the desired final maximum test
concentration with complete medium containing 50 pg/ml gentamicin. Aliquots of 100 pl of these drug
dilutions were added to the appropriate microtiter wells already containing 100 ptl of medium, resulting
in the required final drug concentrations.
[00165]           Following drug addition, the plates were incubated for an additional 48 h at 37'C, 5 %
C0 2, 95 % air. and 100 % relative humidity. For adherent cells, the assay is terminated by the addition of
cold TCA. Cells were fixed in situ by the gentle addition of 50 pl of cold 50 % (w/v) TCA (final
concentration, 10 % TCA) and incubated for 60 minutes at 4'C. The supernatant was discarded, and the
plates are washed five times with tap water and air dried. Sulforhodamine B (SRB) solution (100 pl) at
0.4 % (w/v) in 1 % acetic acid was added to each well, and plates were incubated for 10 minutes at room
temperature. After staining, unbound dye was removed by washing five times with 1 % acetic acid and
the plates were air dried. Bound stain was subsequently solubilized with 10 mM trizma base, and the
absorbance was read on an automated plate reader at a wavelength of 515 nm.
[00166]           For suspension cells, the methodology is the same except that the assay was terminated
by fixing settled cells at the bottom of the wells by gently adding 50 pl of 80 % TCA (final
concentration., 16 % TCA). Using the absorbance measurements [time zero, (Tz), control growth, (C),
and test growth in the presence of drug at   10 ^5 molar concentration of BF175 (Ti)], the percentage
growth is calculated as: [(Ti-Tz)/(C-Tz)] x 100 for concentrations for which Ti>/=Tz and [(Ti-Tz)/Tz] x
100 for concentrations for which Ti<Tz.
                                                       58

Table 2
Entrez  Gene
ID      symbol                                       Description                                Fold change P-value
3156    HMGCR   3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase                                            -1.96   0.0003
7108    TM7SF2  transmembrane 7 superfamily member 2/C-14 sterol reductase                          -1.94   0.0000
3638    INSIGI   insulin induced gene 1                                                             -1.86   0.0000
1717    DHCR7   7-dehydrocholesterol reductase                                                      -1.79   0.0000
6576    SLC25A1 solute carrier family 25 (mitochondrial carrier; citrate transporter), member 1     -1.78   0.0000
4598    MVK     mevalonate kinase                                                                   -1.76   0.0013
6319    SCD     stearoyl-CoA desaturase (delta-9-desaturase)                                        -1.74   0.0000
9415    FADS2   fatty acid desaturase 2                                                             -1.71   0.0004
1384    CRAT    carnitine 0-acetyltransferase                                                       -1.71   0.0000
6307    SC4MOL  sterol-C4-methyl oxidase-like                                                       -1.71   0.0000
54947   LPCAT2   lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 2                                          -1.68   0.0009
3638    INSIG1  insulin induced gene 1                                                              -1.67   0.0007
3949    LDLR     low density lipoprotein receptor                                                   -1.67   0.0000
6721    SREBF2  sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 2                            -1.67   0.0002
51181   DCXR    dicarbonyl/L-xylulose reductase                                                     -1.67   0.0000
2222    FDFT1   farnesyl-diphosphate farnesyltransferase 1                                          -1.64   0.0000
6720    SREBF1  sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 1                           -1.64    0.0144
29988   SLC2A8  solute carrier family 2 (facilitated glucose transporter), member 8                 -1.62   0.0000
11182   SLC2A6  solute carrier family 2 (facilitated glucose transporter), member 6                 -1.61   0.0000
30      ACAA1   acetyl-CoA acyltransferase 1                                                        -1.59   0.0000
4597    MVD     mevalonate (diphospho) decarboxylase                                                -1.58   0.0001
10682   EBP     emopamil binding protein (sterol isomerase)                                         -1.57   0.0201
6713    SOLE    squalene epoxidase                                                                  -1.54   0.0000
79602   ADIPOR2 adiponectin receptor 2                                                              -1.54   0.0001
10162   LPCAT3   lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3                                          -1.48   0.0004
10999   SLC27A4 solute carrier family 27 (fatty acid transporter), member 4                         -1.48   0.0063
3422    IDI1     isopentenyl-diphosphate delta isomerase 1                                         -1.47    0.0001
1431    CS      citrate synthase                                                                    -1.47   0.0058
6720    SREBF1  sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 1                            -1.46   0.0002
1737    DLAT    dihydrolipoamide S-acetyltransferase                                                -1.45   0.0015
47      ACLY    ATP citrate lyase                                                                   -1.45   0.0017
3422    IDI      isopentenyl-diphosphate delta isomerase 1                                          -1.44   0.0000
2194    FASN    fatty acid synthase                                                                 -1.44   0.0000
1595    CYP51A1 cytochrome P450, family 51, subfamily A, polypeptide 1                              -1.43   0.0241
55326   AGPAT5   1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate 0-acyltransferase 5                                     -1.40   0.0018
2542    SLC37A4 solute carrier family 37 (glucose-6-phosphate transporter), member 4                -1.40   0.0112
2224    FDPS    farnesyl diphosphate synthase                                                       -1.40   0.0010
10423   CDIPT   CDP-diacylglycerol--inositol 3-phosphatidyltransferase                              -1.38   0.0111
31      ACACA   acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha                                                        -1.38   0.0001
27349   MCAT    malonyl CoA:ACP acyltransferase (mitochondrial)                                     -1.37   0.0000
2639    GCDH    glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase                                                          -1.36   0.0281
9926    LPGAT1   lysophosphatidylglycerol acyltransferase 1                                         -1.35   0.0297
3795    KHK     ketohexokinase (fructokinase)                                                       -1.35   0.0010
11332   ACOT7   acyl-CoA thioesterase 7                                                             -1.34   0.0003
8310    ACOX3   acyl-CoA oxidase 3, pristanoyl                                                      -1.34   0.0238
3417    IDH1     isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (NADP+), soluble                                        -1.34   0.0003
4047    LSS      lanosterol synthase (2,3-oxidosqualene-lanosterol cyclase)                         -1.33   0.0033
3988    LIPA     lipase A, lysosomal acid, cholesterol esterase                                     -1.30   0.0015
                                                          59

What is claimed herein is:
     1. A compound of formula 1,11, 111 or IV, wherein formulae I, II, III, and IV are:
                                                    (R3)n       R5
                                                  B
                                            R 2-O                 R4
            wherein R, and R2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and R1 and R 2 can be
taken together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring;
            R 3 is halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic;
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted., branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)RB; -CO 2 RB.
-CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; -SO 2 RB; -NO 2 ; -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3 ; wherein each occurrence of
RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety;
heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy: alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino;
heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
            R4 and R5 are independently hydrogen; halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted.
branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -CN;
halogen; or hydroxyl;
            R6  is cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic
or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted. branched or unbranched aryl;
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl;
            R 7 are independently halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)R ;
-CO 2RB; -; -CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SOR; -SO2 RB; -NO2; -N(R) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3 ; wherein each
occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl;
aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino;
dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
            n is an integer 0-4 inclusive; and
            m is an integer 0-5 inclusive;
                                                          60

                                            (R9 )n     R6       R7
                                                                          0-R,
                                                               /
                                                       R5                 O-R 2
                                                             R4     R3
                                                            II
            wherein R 1 and R 2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and R 1 and R 2 can be
taken together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring;
            R3 , R 4 , R5 , R6 , R 7 and R8 are independently hydrogen; halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted
or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic: cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl;
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched heteroaryl; B(O)R1R 2 ; -C(=O)RB; -CO2RB; -; -CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; -SO 2 RB; -NO 2 ;
N(R)   2; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(R)           3; wherein each occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a
protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy;
alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
            R 9 is independently halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)RB;
-CO 2 RB; -; -CN; -SCN; -SRB; -SORB; -SO 2 RB; -NO 2 ; -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB) 3; wherein each
occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl;
aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino;
dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo; and wherein R9 and R 5 or R6 can be taken
together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring; and
            n is an integer 0 to 5, inclusive;
                                                    R8    R9
                                                           -R10
                                                 R7
                                                                    R11
                                                 R6                   O0-R,
                                                    R5      -         O-R  2
                                                         R4      R3
                                                            III
          wherein R 1 and R2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and R 1 and 12 can be taken
together to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring; and
            R3  . R4, R5 , R(,   R7,  R8, R9. Rio and Ri are independently hydrogen; halogen; cyclic or acyclic,
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or
                                                             61

unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aryl; substituted or unsubstituted,
branched or unbranched heteroaryl; B(O)RiR 2; -C(=O)R; -CO 2 RB;              -;  -CN; -SCN; -SR'; -SORB; -SO2RB;
-NO 2; -N(RB) 2; -NHC(O)R; or -C(R)       3; wherein each occurrence of RB is independently hydrogen;
halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety; heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy;
aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino; heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or
alkylhalo;
                                                          (R 3)n
                                                  R1 -O          \
                                                        ,B         /       R4
                                                  R2 -0
                                                             IV
wherein R 1 and R 2 are unsubstituted branched or straight chain alkyl, and R 1 and R2 can be taken together
to form a substituted or unsubstituted five or six membered ring;
           R 3 halogen; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aliphatic;
cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaliphatic; substituted or
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched acyl; substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched aryl:
substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched heteroaryl; -C(=O)RB; -CO 2RB; -; -CN; -SCN;
SRB; -SORB; -SO 2 RB; -NO 2: -N(RB) 2 ; -NHC(O)RB; or -C(RB)         3 ; wherein    each occurrence of RB is
independently hydrogen; halogen; a protecting group; aliphatic; heteroaliphatic; acyl; aryl moiety;
heteroaryl; hydroxyl; alkoxy; aryloxy; alkylthioxy; arylthioxy; amino; alkylamino; dialkylamino;
heteroaryloxy; heteroarylthioxy; or alkylhalo;
           R 4 is optionally substituted aryl, or optionally substituted heteroaryl; and
           n is an integer 0-4 inclusive.
    2.   A compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is selected from the group consisiting of:
              B
             -O            BF-1755           B        /
                  B           B/               OH              B                 /             NO 2
                                 0 2N
                  B                   \        NO2
                   0      /B_
                                 0 2N
                                                _                        -       /     \ /
                               O    -          NO 2           B/
                  B   g    //                                                      y
               O                 0 2N                                                N
                                                         62

 BB
             0   B0
0B             B
        0
     BB
  B0
          63

    -0
         B_
                                                         \\\/                             B
                             B/\                       B\                Si-               0
                               o-                         O                                        ,and
             B
           0'
3.  A method of treating cancer in a subject, the method comprising administering to the subject an
    inhibitor of sterol regulatory binding protein I (SREBP1) of any of claims 1-2.
4.  The method of claim 3, further comprising a first step of selecting a subject having cancer cells
    which express abnormal levels of sterol regulatory binding protein 1 (SREBP I).
5. The method of claim 4. wherein the cells which express abnormal levels of sterol regulatory
    binding protein 1 (SREBP1) are cells which have abnonnal levels of SREBP1 polypeptide.
6.  The method of claim 3, further comprising a first step of selecting a subject having cancer cells
    which express abnormal amounts of Erb2.
7.  The method of claim 3, further comprising a first step of selecting a subject having cancer cells
    which express abnormal amounts of at least one gene selected from the group consisting of:
              FASN, SCD1 or ACLY.
8.  The method of any of claims 3-7, wherein the subject has an endometrial cancer.
9.  The method of any of claims 3-8., wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting of:
              prostate cancer; breast cancer; colorectal cancer; colorectal carcinoma; hepatocarcinoma;
              endometrial adenocarcinoma: uterine cancer; leukemia; lung cancer; central nervous
              system cancer; melanoma; ovarian cancer; renal cancer; and pancreatic cancer.
10. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of any of claims 1-2.
11. The composition of claim 10, further comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable       carrier.
12. The use of an inhibitor of sterol regulatory binding protein 1 (SREBPI) of any of claims 1-2 to
    treat cancer.
13. The use of claim 12, wherein the cancer is comprised of cells expressing abnormal levels of
    sterol regulatory binding protein 1 (SREBP1).
14. The use of claim 13, wherein the cells which express abnormal levels of sterol regulatory binding
    protein I (SREBP1) are cells which have abnormal levels of SREBP1 polypeptide.
15. The use of claim 12, wherein the cancer is comprised of cells expressing abnormal amounts of
    Erb2.
16. The use of claim 12, wherein the cancer is comprised of cells expressing abnormal amounts of at
    least one gene selected from the group consisting of:
              FASN, SCDI or ACLY.
17. The use of any of claims 12-16., wherein the cancer is an endometrial cancer.
                                                   64

18. The use of claim 17, wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting of:
            prostate cancer; breast cancer; colorectal cancer; colorectal carcinoma; hepatocarcinoma;
            endometrial adenocarcinoma; uterine cancer; leukemia; lung cancer; central nervous
            system cancer; melanoma; ovarian cancer; renal cancer; and pancreatic cancer.
                                                 65

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
