                                         ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to a polymeric prodrug for use in the treatment, prevention
and/or diagnosis a disease of the joint and pharmaceutical compositions and medical
devices comprising said polymeric prodrugs.

       WO 2014/056915                               1                          PCT/EP2013/070949
                    Diagnosis, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases of the Joint
 5
   Diseases of the joint pose a significant burden on the patient as mobility of legs or fingers
   may be significantly affected. A common disease of the joints is arthropathy of which one
   form is arthritis. More than 100 different forms of arthritis are known. The most common
   form is osteoarthritis, a degenerative joint disease, which may result from trauma to the joint,
 0 infection of the joint, or age. Other arthritis forms are rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis,
   and related autoimmune diseases. Septic arthritis is caused by joint infection.
   Patients of arthropathy suffer from joint pain which is often long lasting and may be localized
   to the affected joint(s). In the affected joint(s) the pain may occur due to inflammation that
 5 occurs around or inside the joint, damage to the joint from disease, daily wear and tear of
   joint, muscle strains caused by forceful movements against stiff, painful joints and fatigue.
   In the US arthritis is the most common cause of disability and more than 20 million patients
   experience limitations in their everyday life. Absence from work and frequent physician visits
 0 of arthritis patients cause significant costs which is estimated to be close to $100 billion of
   which nearly 50% accounts from lost earnings.
   Many forms of arthropathy cannot be cured and the exact treatment depends on the specific
   type of joint disease. Treatment includes physical therapy, lifestyle changes, orthopedic
 5 bracing, medications and occasionally joint replacement surgery. Medications can help reduce
   inflammation in the joint which decreases pain. Moreover, by decreasing inflammation, the
   joint damage may be slowed.
   Arthropathy may be addressed by either systemic or local administration of suitable drugs or a
30 combination of systemic and localized administration. Examples for systemic drugs used in
   the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis are etanercept (Enbrel) and infliximab (Remicade) or
   methotrexate.
   An example for a localized treatment is the injection of cortisone into the affected joint.
35 Localized administration of drugs to the joints is preferable for many reasons. Systemic side
   effects may be suppressed or entirely avoided and therapeutic concentrations at the affected
   site are much more readily achieved. Unfortunately though, the efflux of drugs injected into a
   joint is very high, and synovial clearance may result in wash out of the drug within a day from
   the joint region.

       WO 2014/056915                             2                            PCT/EP2013/070949
   For instance it has been found that injection into the joint of IL-Ira was not significantly
   reducing the symptoms of osteoarthritis (Chevalier et al, J. Rheumatol 32 (2005) 1317-23),
   and the poor efficacy seen was related to the short half-life of IL-Ira in the synovium
   (Richette et al. J Rheumatol 35 (2008) 1650-4).
 5
   Consequently, the therapeutic efficacy is greatly reduced and repeated frequent administration
   is required which is posing a challenge as injections into the joints are cumbersome
   procedures both for the patient as well as for the health care professional performing the
   administration.
 0
   Various approaches have been tested to provide for long-lasting delivery of therapeutic agents
   in a localized manner to treat diseases of the joint such as depot formulations or gene therapy.
   However, significant setbacks have been experienced in testing such delivery systems.
   Obstacles remain in the administration of a small volume as the joint space available for
 5 intraarticular injection may hold only a ml of synovial fluid or less. For the same reason, both
   viscosity of the injetable and needle size must match the requirement of injection into the
   small space of a joint. Furthermore, efficient control of the time-action profile of a disease
   modifying agent must be achieved.
 0 In view of the above, there exists a need to provide a form of administration that overcomes
   these drawbacks at least partially.
   This objective is achieved with a polymeric prodrug and/or a pharmaceutical composition
   comprising a polymeric prodrug for use in the prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment of a
 5 disease of the joint.
   Preferred is the prevention and/or treatment of a disease of the joint.
   The invention further relates to a polymeric prodrug and/or a pharmaceutical composition
30 comprising a polymeric prodrug for use for intra-articular injection.
   The invention also relates to a polymeric prodrug and/or a pharmaceutical composition
   comprising a polymeric prodrug for use for intra-articular injection in the prevention,
   diagnosis and/or treatment of a disease of the joint.
35
   It was now surprisingly found that polymeric prodrugs provide a long-lasting depot which is
   beneficial for the prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment of a disease of the joint. Such
   polymeric prodrugs are carrier-linked prodrugs in which the carrier is a polymer and to which

       WO 2014/056915                             3                             PCT/EP2013/070949
   biologically active moieties are connected through reversible prodrug linkers and which
   biologically active moieties are released from the polymeric prodrug in the form of a drug.
   The invention also relates to a method of preventing, diagnosing and/or treating a disease of
 5 the joint, wherein said method comprises the step of administering a therapeutically effective
   amount of a polymeric prodrug or pharmaceutical composition of the present invention to a
   patient in need thereof.
   As the drug is released in therapeutically effective concentrations over an extended period of
 0 time, overconcentration of the drug is avoided.
   Within the present invention the terms are used with the meaning as follows
   As used herein, a "disease of the joint" is any disease, condition or illness affecting one or
 5 more joints of a mammal.
   The term "intra-articular injection" refers to an injection into a joint. Types of joints for intra
   articular administration are fibrous joints, cartilaginous joint and synovial joints.
   Anatomically, joints suitable for intraarticular administration according to the invention are
 0 articulations of the hand, elbow joints, wrist joints, axillary articulations, sternoclavicular
   joints, vertebral articulations, temporomandibular joints, sacroiliac joints, hip joints, knee
   joints, articulations of the foot.
   Administration of the polymeric depot of the the invention may be performed in a
 5 monoarticular or polyarticular fashion, i.e. injections may be performed on one or more than
   one joint.
   As used herein, the term "hydrogel" means a hydrophilic or amphiphilic polymeric network
   composed of homopolymers or copolymers, which is insoluble due to the presence of
30 covalent chemical crosslinks. The crosslinks provide the network structure and physical
   integrity. Hydrogels exhibit a thermodynamic compatibility with water which allows them to
   swell in aqueous media.
   As used herein, the term "reagent" means a chemical compound which comprises at least one
35 functional group for reaction with the functional group of another reagent or moiety.
   As used herein, the term "backbone reagent" means a reagent, which is suitable as a starting
   material for forming hydrogels. As used herein, a backbone reagent preferably does not

       WO 2014/056915                             4                           PCT/EP2013/070949
   comprise biodegradable linkages. A backbone reagent may comprise a "branching core"
   which refers to an atom or moiety to which more than one other moiety is attached.
   As used herein, the term "crosslinker reagent" means a linear or branched reagent, which is
 5 suitable as a starting material for crosslinking backbone reagents. Preferably, the crosslinker
   reagent is a linear chemical compound. A crosslinker reagent comprises at least two
   biodegradable linkages.
   As used herein, the term "moiety" means a part of a molecule, which lacks one or more
 0 atom(s) compared to the corresponding reagent. If, for example, a reagent of the formula "H
   X-H" reacts with another reagent and becomes part of the reaction product, the corresponding
   moiety of the reaction product has the structure "H-X-" or "-X- " , whereas each "- "
   indicates attachment to another moiety. Accordingly, a biologically active moiety is released
   from a prodrug as a drug.
 5
   Accordingly, the phrase "in bound form" is used to refer to the corresponding moiety of a
   reagent, i.e. "lysine in bound form" refers to a lysine moiety which lacks one or more atom(s)
   of the lysine reagent and is part of a molecule.
 0 As used herein, the term "functional group" means a group of atoms which can react with
   other functional groups. Functional groups include but are not limited to the following groups:
   carboxylic acid (-(C=O)OH), primary or secondary amine (-NH2, -NH-), maleimide, thiol (
   SH), sulfonic acid (-(O=S=O)OH), carbonate, carbamate (-O(C=O)N<), hydroxy (-OH),
   aldehyde (-(C=O)H), ketone (-(C=O)-), hydrazine (>N-N<), isocyanate, isothiocyanate,
 5 phosphoric acid (-O(P=O)OHOH), phosphonic acid (-O(P=O)OHH), haloacetyl, alkyl halide,
   acryloyl, aryl fluoride, hydroxylamine, disulfide, vinyl sulfone, vinyl ketone, diazoalkane,
   oxirane, and aziridine.
   If a chemical functional group is coupled to another functional group, the resulting chemical
30 structure is referred to as "linkage". For example, the reaction of an amine group with a
   carboxyl group results in an amide linkage.
   As used herein, the term "activated functional group" means a functional group, which is
   connected to an activating group, i.e. a functional group was reacted with an activating
35 reagent. Preferred activated functional groups include but are not limited to activated ester
   groups, activated carbamate groups, activated carbonate groups and activated thiocarbonate
   groups. Preferred activating groups are selected from formulas ((f-i) to (f-vi):

     WO 2014/056915                               5                                PCT/EP2013/070949
                                                                                    NO2
                            N'
                                    o       1
                                     (f-i),                 NO 2 (f-ii),                  NO 2 (f_   ,
                            Fb                     F
                                            0                F
                             (f-iv)ForX
                                            FfF                   (f-v)                    (f-vi)
                                                   F
         wherein
 5       the dashed lines indicate attachment to the rest of the molecule;
         b          is 1, 2, 3 or 4; and
         XH         is Cl, Br, I, or F.
   Accordingly, a preferred activated ester has the formula
                    F
 0       -(C=0)-XF
         wherein
         XF is selected from formula (f-i), (f-i), (f-iii), (f-iv), (f-v) and (f-vi).
   Accordingly, a preferred activated carbamate has the formula
 5       -N-(C=O)-XF,
         wherein
         XF is selected from formula (f-i), (f-i), (f-iii), (f-iv), (f-v) and (f-vi).
   Accordingly, a preferred activated carbonate has the formula
20       -O-(C=O)-XF,
         wherein
         XF is selected from formula (f-i), (f-i), (f-iii), (f-iv), (f-v) and (f-vi).
   Accordingly, a preferred activated thioester has the formula
25       -S-(C=O)-XF,
         wherein
         XF is selected from formula (f-i), (f-ui), (f-iii), (f-iv), (f-v) and (f-vi).

        WO 2014/056915                            6                             PCT/EP2013/070949
   Accordingly, an "activated end functional group" is an activated functional group which is
   localized at the end of a moiety or molecule, i.e. is a terminal activated functional group.
   As used herein, the term "capping group" means a moiety which is irreversibly, i.e.
 5 permanently, connected to a functional group to render it incapable of reacting with functional
   groups of other reagents or moieties.
   As used herein, the term "protecting group" means a moiety which is reversibly connected to
   a functional group to render it incapable of reacting with, for example, another functional
 0 group. Suitable alcohol (-OH) protecting groups are, for example, acetyl, benzoyl, benzyl, p
   methoxyethoxymethyl ether, dimethoxytrityl, methoxymethyl ether, methoxytrityl, p
   methoxybenzyl ether, methylthiomethyl ether, pivaloyl, tetrahydropyranyl, trityl,
   trimethylsilyl, tert-butyldimethylsilyl, tri-iso-propylsilyloxymethyl, triisopropylsilyl ether,
   methyl ether, and ethoxyethyl ether. Suitable amine protecting groups are, for example,
 5 carbobenzyloxy,         p-methoxybenzyl          carbonyl,        tert-butyloxycarbonyl,       9
   fluorenylmethyloxyarbonyl, acetyl, benzoyl, benzyl, carbamate, p-methoxybenzyl, 3,4
   dimethoxybenzyl, p-methoxyphenyl, and tosyl. Suitable carbonyl protecting groups are, for
   example, acetals and ketals, acylals and dithianes. Suitable carboxylic acid protecting groups
   are, for example, methyl esters, benzyl esters, tert-butyl esters, 2,6-dimethylphenol, 2,6
 0 diisopropylphenol, 2,6.-di-tert-butylphenol, silyl esters, orthoesters, and oxazoline. Suitable
   phosphate protecting groups are, for example, 2-cyanoethyl and methyl.
   As used herein, the terms "work-up" and "working-up" refer to the series of manipulations
   required to isolate and purify the product(s) of a chemical reaction, in particular of a
 5 polymerization.
   As used herein, the term "polymer" means a molecule comprising repeating structural units,
   i.e. the monomers, connected by chemical bonds in a linear, circular, branched, crosslinked or
   dendrimeric way or a combination thereof, which may be of synthetic or biological origin or a
30 combination of both. It is understood that a polymer may for example also comprise
   functional groups or capping moieties. Preferably, a polymer has a molecular weight of at
   least 0.5 kDa, e.g. a molecular weight of at least 1 kDa, a molecular weight of at least 2 kDa,
   a molecular weight of at least 3 kDa or a molecular weight of at least 5 kDa.
35 As used herein, the term "polymeric" means a reagent or a moiety comprising one or more
   polymer(s).
   The person skilled in the art understands that the polymerization products obtained from a
   polymerization reaction do not all have the same molecular weight, but rather exhibit a

       WO 2014/056915                            7                             PCT/EP2013/070949
   molecular weight distribution. Consequently, the molecular weight ranges, molecular weights,
   ranges of numbers of monomers in a polymer and numbers of monomers in a polymer as used
   herein, refer to the number average molecular weight and number average of monomers. As
   used herein, the term "number average molecular weight" means the ordinary arithmetic
 5 means of the molecular weights of the individual polymers.
   As used herein, the term "polymerization" or "polymerizing" means the process of reacting
   monomer or macromonomer reagents in a chemical reaction to form polymer chains or
   networks, including but not limited to hydrogels.
 0
   As used herein, the term "macromonomer" means a molecule that was obtained from the
   polymerization of monomer reagents.
   As used herein, the term "condensation polymerization" or "condensation reaction" means a
 5 chemical reaction, in which the functional groups of two reagents react to form one single
   molecule, i.e. the reaction product, and a low molecular weight molecule, for example water,
   is released.
   As used herein, the term "suspension polymerization" means a heterogeneous and/or biphasic
 0 polymerization reaction, wherein the monomer reagents are dissolved in a first solvent,
   forming the disperse phase which is emulsified in a second solvent, forming the continuous
   phase. In the present invention, the monomer reagents are the at least one backbone reagent
   and the at least one crosslinker reagent. Both the first solvent and the monomer reagents are
   not soluble in the second solvent. Such emulsion is formed by stirring, shaking, exposure to
 5 ultrasound or MicrosieveTM emulsification, more preferably by stirring or MicrosieveTM
   emulsification and more preferably by stirring. This emulsion is stabilized by an appropriate
   emulsifier. The polymerization is initiated by addition of a base as initiator which is soluble in
   the first solvent. A suitable commonly known base suitable as initiator may be a tertiary base,
   such as tetramethylethylenediamine (TMEDA).
30
   As used herein, the term "inert" refers to a moiety which is not chemically reactive, i.e. it
   does not react with other moieties or reagents. The person skilled in the art understands that
   the term "inert" does not per se exclude the presence of functional groups, but understands
   that the functional groups potentially present in an inert moiety are not reactive with
35 functional groups of moieties/reagents brought in contact with the inert moiety in, for
   example, subsequent reactions. In particular, the inert moiety Z does not react with Ax or A2
   or with functional groups present, for example, in reversible prodrug linker reagents, drugs,
   reversible prodrug linker moiety-biologically active moiety conjugate reagents or spacer

      WO 2014/056915                                  8                               PCT/EP2013/070949
   reagents which may be covalently conjugated to the hydrogel of the present invention to
   obtain the hydrogel-linked prodrug of the present invention.
   As used herein, the term "immiscible" means the property where two substances are not
 5 capable of combining to form a homogeneous mixture.
   As used herein, the term "polyamine" means a reagent or moiety comprising more than one
   amine (-NH- and/or -NH 2), e.g. from 2 to 64 amines, from 4 to 48 amines, from 6 to 32
   amines, from 8 to 24 amines, or from 10 to 16 amines. Particularly preferred polyamines
 0 comprise from 2 to 32 amines.
   As used herein, the term "PEG-based comprising at least X% PEG" in relation to a moiety or
   reagent means that said moiety or reagent comprises at least X% (w/w) ethylene glycol units
   (-CH2CH 2 0-), wherein the ethylene glycol units may be arranged blockwise, alternating or
 5 may be randomly distributed within the moiety or reagent and preferably all ethylene glycol
   units of said moiety or reagent are present in one block; the remaining weight percentage of
   the PEG-based moiety or reagent are other moieties especially selected from the following
   substituents and linkages:
 0    e    C1 _5 o alkyl, C 2 _5 o alkenyl, C2 _5 0  alkynyl, C3 _10    cycloalkyl, 4- to 7-membered
           heterocyclyl, 8- to 11-membered heterobicyclyl, phenyl; naphthyl; indenyl; indanyl;
           and tetralinyl; and
      *    linkages selected from the group comprising
                                  O , EN   S,   ,      N     ,NS-S                -     N=N-,
                                          1
                  ORI          NR1            0             NR 1       0                 0
                       R10                                   S                      0
             -N--C-|,          -N-C-N-,                              |N-C-N-,                -,
                                                                                       -N-C-0-
                       O           R i     {ia
                                           R             R 1     {1a
                                                                 R            {1R
25
                                                                              0
                  -      -N-,          --              '---N
                            11O                          '    and
                           R                        N
                    wherein
                    dashed lines indicate attachment to the remainder of the moiety or reagent, and

       WO 2014/056915                              9                                PCT/EP2013/070949
                  Ri and Ra are independently of each other selected from H and C1-6 alkyl.
   The term "hyaluronic acid-based" as understood herein means that the mass proportion of
   hyaluronic acid chains in the hydrogel according to the invention is at least 10% by weight,
 5 preferably at least 20% by weight, and even more preferably at least 25% by weight based on
   the total weight of the hydrogel according to the invention. The remainder can be made up of
   other polymers.
   As used herein, the term "C1 _4 alkyl" alone or in combination means a straight-chain or
 0 branched alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms. If present at the end of a molecule,
   examples of straight-chain and branched C1 _4 alkyl groups are methyl, ethyl, n-propyl,
   isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl and tert-butyl. When two moieties of a molecule are
   linked by the C1 _4 alkyl group, then examples for such C1 _4 alkyl groups are -CH2-,
   -CH 2-CH 2 -, -CH(CH 3 )-, -CH 2-CH 2 -CH 2-, -CH(C 2 H5 )-, -C(CH 3 ) 2 -, -CH 2-CH 2-CH 2 -CH 2-, and
 5 -CH 2-CH 2 -CH 2(CH 3)-. Each hydrogen atom of a C1 _4 alkyl group may be replaced by a
   substituent as defined below.
   As used herein, the term "C1-6 alkyl" alone or in combination means a straight-chain or
   branched alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms. If present at the end of a molecule,
 0 examples of straight-chain and branched C1 -6 alkyl groups are methyl, ethyl, n-propyl,
   isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, n-pentyl, 2-methylbutyl, 2,2-dimethylpropyl,
   n-hexyl, 2-methylpentyl, 3-methylpentyl, 2,2-dimethylbutyl, 2,3-dimethylbutyl and 3,3
   dimethylpropyl. When two moieties of a molecule are linked by the C1-6 alkyl group, then
   examples for such C1 -6 alkyl groups are -CH 2 -, -CH 2-CH 2-, -CH(CH 3)-, -CH 2 -CH 2-CH 2-,
 5 CH(C 2H5)- and -C(CH 3) 2-. Each hydrogen atom of a C1-6 alkyl group may be replaced by a
   substituent as defined below.
   Accordingly, as used herein, the term "C1 -2 0 alkyl" alone or in combination means a straight
   chain or branched alkyl group having 1 to 20 carbon atoms. The term "C8 18s alkyl" alone or in
30 combination means a straight-chain or branched alkyl group having 8 to 18 carbon atoms.
   Accordingly, as used herein, the term "C1_5 0 alkyl" alone or in combination means a straight
   chain or branched alkyl group having 1 to 50 carbon atoms. Each hydrogen atom of aC1-20
   alkyl group, a C8_1 8 alkyl group and C1 5 o alkyl group may be replaced by a substituent. In
   each case the alkyl group may be present at the end of a molecule or two moieties of a
35 molecule may be linked by the alkyl group.
   As used herein, the term "C 2 -6 alkenyl" alone or in combination means a straight-chain or
   branched hydrocarbon moiety comprising at least one carbon-carbon double bond having 2 to
   6 carbon atoms. If present at the end of a molecule, examples are -CH=CH 2, -CH=CH-CH 3 ,

       WO 2014/056915                            10                             PCT/EP2013/070949
   -CH 2-CH=CH 2, -CH=CHCH 2 -CH 3 and -CH=CH-CH=CH 2 . When two moieties of a molecule
   are linked by the C2 -6 alkenyl group, then an example for such C2 -6 alkenyl is -CH=CH-. Each
   hydrogen atom of a C2 -6 alkenyl group may be replaced by a substituent as defined below.
   Optionally, one or more triple bond(s) may occur.
 5
   Accordingly, as used herein, the term "C2 -2 0 alkenyl" alone or in combination means a
   straight-chain or branched hydrocarbon residue comprising at least one carbon-carbon double
   bond having 2 to 20 carbon atoms. The term "C2 -50 alkenyl" alone or in combination means a
   straight-chain or branched hydrocarbon residue comprising at least one carbon-carbon double
 0 bond having 2 to 50 carbon atoms. If present at the end of a molecule, examples are
   -CH=CH 2 , -CH=CH-CH 3, -CH 2-CH=CH 2, -CH=CHCH 2 -CH 3 and -CH=CH-CH=CH 2. When
   two moieties of a molecule are linked by the alkenyl group, then an example is e.g. -CH=CH-.
   Each hydrogen atom of a C2 -2 0 alkenyl or C 2 -5 o alkenyl group may be replaced by a substituent
   as defined below. Optionally, one or more triple bond(s) may occur.
 5
   As used herein, the term "C2 -6 alkynyl" alone or in combination means straight-chain or
   branched hydrocarbon residue comprising at least one carbon-carbon triple bond having 2 to 6
   carbon atoms. If present at the end of a molecule, examples are -C--CH, -CH 2-C--CH,
   CH 2-CH 2 -C--CH and CH 2-C--C-CH 3 . When two moieties of a molecule are linked by the
 0 alkynyl group, then an example is: -C--C-. Each hydrogen atom of a C2 -6 alkynyl group may
   be replaced by a substituent as defined below. Optionally, one or more double bond(s) may
   occur.
   Accordingly, as used herein, the term "C2 -2 0 alkynyl" alone or in combination means a
 5 straight-chain or branched hydrocarbon residue comprising at least one carbon-carbon triple
   bond having 2 to 20 carbon atoms and "C2 -5 o alkynyl" alone or in combination means a
   straight-chain or branched hydrocarbon residue comprising at least one carbon-carbon triple
   bond having 2 to 50 carbon atoms. If present at the end of a molecule, examples are -C--CH,
   -CH 2-C--CH, CH 2 -CH 2-C--CH and CH 2 -C--C-CH 3 . When two moieties of a molecule are
30 linked by the alkynyl group, then an example is -C--C-. Each hydrogen atom of a C 2 -20 alkynyl
   or C2 -50 alkynyl group may be replaced by a substituent as defined below. Optionally, one or
   more double bond(s) may occur.
   As used herein, the terms "C3 _8 cycloalkyl" or "C3 _8 cycloalkyl ring" means a cyclic alkyl
35 chain having 3 to 8 carbon atoms, which may be saturated or unsaturated, e.g. cyclopropyl,
   cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl. Each hydrogen
   atom of a cycloalkyl carbon may be replaced by a substituent as defined below. The term
   "C3 _8 cycloalkyl" or "C3 _8 cycloalkyl ring" also includes bridged bicycles like norbonane or

       WO 2014/056915                             11                          PCT/EP2013/070949
   norbonene. Accordingly, "C3 _5 cycloalkyl" means a cycloalkyl having 3 to 5 carbon atoms and
   C3 _1 0 cycloalkyl having 3 to 10 carbon atoms.
   Accordingly, as used herein, the term "C3 _10 cycloalkyl" means a carbocyclic ring system
 5 having 3 to 10 carbon atoms, which may be saturated or unsaturated, e.g. cyclopropyl,
   cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl, cyclononyl,
   cyclodecyl. The term "C3 _10 cycloalkyl" also includes at least partially saturated carbomono
   and -bicycles.
 0 As used herein, the term "halogen" means fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo. Particulary preferred
   is fluoro or chloro.
   As used herein, the term "4- to 7-membered heterocyclyl" or "4- to 7-membered heterocycle"
   means a ring with 4, 5, 6 or 7 ring atoms that may contain up to the maximum number of
 5 double bonds (aromatic or non-aromatic ring which is fully, partially or un-saturated) wherein
   at least one ring atom up to 4 ring atoms are replaced by a heteroatom selected from the group
   consisting of sulfur (including -S(O)-, -S(O) 2 -), oxygen and nitrogen (including =N(O)-) and
   wherein the ring is linked to the rest of the molecule via a carbon or nitrogen atom. Examples
   for 4- to 7-membered heterocycles include but are not limited to azetidine, oxetane, thietane,
 0 furan, thiophene, pyrrole, pyrroline, imidazole, imidazoline, pyrazole, pyrazoline, oxazole,
   oxazoline, isoxazole, isoxazoline, thiazole, thiazoline, isothiazole, isothiazoline, thiadiazole,
   thiadiazoline, tetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrothiophene, pyrrolidine, imidazolidine, pyrazolidine,
   oxazolidine, isoxazolidine, thiazolidine, isothiazolidine, thiadiazolidine, sulfolane, pyran,
   dihydropyran, tetrahydropyran, imidazolidine, pyridine, pyridazine, pyrazine, pyrimidine,
 5 piperazine, piperidine, morpholine, tetrazole, triazole, triazolidine, tetrazolidine, diazepane,
   azepine and homopiperazine. Each hydrogen atom of a 4- to 7-membered heterocyclyl or 4- to
   7-membered heterocyclic group may be replaced by a substituent as defined below.
   As used herein, the term "8- to 11-membered heterobicyclyl" or "8- to 11-membered
30 heterobicycle" means a heterocyclic system of two rings with 8 to 11 ring atoms, where at
   least one ring atom is shared by both rings and that may contain up to the maximum number
   of double bonds (aromatic or non-aromatic ring which is fully, partially or un-saturated)
   wherein at least one ring atom up to 6 ring atoms are replaced by a heteroatom selected from
   the group consisting of sulfur (including -S(O)-, -S(O) 2 -), oxygen and nitrogen (including
35 =N(O)-) and wherein the ring is linked to the rest of the molecule via a carbon or nitrogen
   atom. Examples for a 8- to 11-membered heterobicycle are indole, indoline, benzofuran,
   benzothiophene, benzoxazole, benzisoxazole, benzothiazole, benzisothiazole, benzimidazole,
   benzimidazo line, quinoline, quinazoline, dihydroquinazo line, quinoline, dihydroquino line,
   tetrahydroquino line,        decahydroquino line,      isoquinoline,     decahydroisoquino line,

       WO 2014/056915                                  12                                  PCT/EP2013/070949
   tetrahydroisoquinoline, dihydroisoquinoline, benzazepine, purine and pteridine. The term 8
   to 11-membered heterobicycle also includes spiro structures of two rings like 1,4-dioxa-8
   azaspiro[4.5]decane or bridged heterocycles like 8-aza-bicyclo[3.2.1 ]octane. Each hydrogen
   atom of an 8- to 1 1-membered heterobicyclyl or 8- to 1 1-membered heterobicycle carbon may
 5 be replaced by a substituent as defined below.
   The term "substituted" means that one or more -H atom(s) of a molecule or moiety are
   replaced by a different atom or a group of atoms, which are referred to as "substituent".
   Suitable substituents are selected from the group consisting of halogen; CN; COOR9; OR 9;
 0 C(O)R 9;      C(O)N(R 9R9a);         S(O) 2 N(R 9R 9 a);         S(O)N(R 9R9a);         S(O) 2 R 9;   S(O)R 9;
   N(R9)S(O) 2 N(R9aR9,);      SR 9; N(R9R 9a);      NO 2 ; OC(O)R 9 ; N(R 9)C(O)R 9 a; N(R 9)S(O) 2R9a.
   N(R9)S(O)R9a ; N(R 9)C(O)OR9a ; N(R 9)C(O)N(R9aR9 ); OC(O)N(R9R9a); T; C 1 _5 o alkyl; C2 -50
   alkenyl; or C2 -50 alkynyl, wherein T; C1 _5 0 alkyl; C2 -5 0 alkenyl; and C2 -5 0 alkynyl are optionally
   substituted with one or more R10 , which are the same or different and wherein C1 _5 0 alkyl; C2
 5 50 alkenyl; and C 2 -5 o alkynyl are optionally interrupted by one or more group(s) selected from
   the group consisting of T, -C(O)O-; -0-; -C(O)-; -C(O)N(R"l)-; -S(O) 2N(R"l)-; -S(O)N(R"l)-;
   -S(0)2-;   -S(O)-;      -N(R"I)S(O) 2N(Rlla)-; -S-; -N(R")-; -OC(O)R11 ; -N(R")C(O)-;
   N(R")S(O)2-; -N(R")S(O)-; -N(R")C(O)O-; -N(R")C(O)N(Rlla)-; and -OC(O)N(RR a);
 0       wherein
         R9,  R9a, R9b                are independently selected from the group consisting of H; T;
                                      and C 1 _5 o alkyl; C 2 -5 o alkenyl; or C2 -5 o alkynyl, wherein T; C1 _50
                                      alkyl; C2 -5 0 alkenyl; and C2 -5 0 alkynyl are optionally substituted
                                      with one or more R 10 , which are the same or different and
 5                                    wherein C1 _5 0 alkyl; C2 -50 alkenyl; and C2 -50 alkynyl are
                                      optionally interrupted by one or more group(s) selected from
                                      the group consisting of T, -C(O)O-; -0-; -C(O)-; -C(O)N(R"l)
                                            -S(O) 2N(R1")-;            -S(O)N(R")-;          -S(0)2-;      -S(O)-;
                                      -N(R"I)S(O)2N(Rlla)-; -S-; -N(R")-; -OC(O)R"1; -N(R")C(O)
30                                    ;      -N(R")S(O)2-;                -N(R" )S(O)-;           -N(R")C(O)O-;
                                      -N(Rl)C(O)N(Rl'a)-; and -OC(O)N(R"lRlla);
            T                         is selected from the group consisting of phenyl; naphthyl;
                                      indenyl; indanyl; tetralinyl; C3 10 cycloalkyl; 4 to 7 membered
                                      heterocyclyl; or 8- to 11- membered heterobicyclyl, wherein T
35                                    is optionally substituted with one or more R 10 , which are the
                                      same or different;
         R 10                         is halogen;       CN;       oxo    (=0);   COOR ; OR1;           C(O)R1;
                                      C(O)N(R R         a);  S(O) 2N(R R a); S(O)N(R R a); S(O) 2R12 ;
                                      S(O)R 12 ; N(R 12)S(O) 2N(Ra R 12);             SR 12 ; N(R R    a);   NO 2 ;

       WO 2014/056915                             13                             PCT/EP2013/070949
                                    OC(O)R1 2 ; N(R12)C(O)Ru  1
                                                                2a; N(R1 2)S(O)2R 12a; N(R12)S(O)Ru
                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                    2a;
                                                     2      12
                                    N(R )C(O)OR a; N(R )C(O)N(Ra R 12); OC(O)N(R R a);
                                    or C1-6 alkyl, wherein C1-6 alkyl is optionally substituted with
                                    one or more halogen, which are the same or different;
           11    Ila  12   12a  12b
 5       R", R       R , Ra, R      are independently selected from the group consisting of H; or
                                    C1-6 alkyl, wherein C1-6 alkyl is optionally substituted with one
                                    or more halogen, which are the same or different.
   In one embodiment R9, R9a, R may be independently of each other H.
 0
   In one embodiment R 0 is C1-6 alkyl.
   In one embodiment T is phenyl.
 5 Preferably, a maximum of 6 -H atoms of a molecule are independently replaced by a
   substituent, e.g. 5 -H atoms are independently replaced by a substiuent, 4 -H atoms are
   independently replaced by a substituent, 3 -H atoms are independently replaced by a
   substituent, 2 -H atoms are independently replaced by a substituent, or 1 -H atom is replaced
   by a substituent.
 0
   As used herein, the term "interrupted" means that between two carbon atoms or at the end of a
   carbon chain between the respective carbon atom and the hydrogen atom one or more atom(s)
   are inserted.
 5 As used herein, the term "prodrug" means a compound that undergoes biotransformation
   before exhibiting its pharmacological effects. Prodrugs can thus be viewed as biologically
   active moieties connected to specialized non-toxic protective groups used in a transient
   manner to alter or to eliminate undesirable properties in the parent molecule, i.e. in a prodrug
   a biologically active moiety is conjugated through a reversible linkage to a specialized group.
30 This also includes the enhancement of desirable properties in the drug and the suppression of
   undesirable properties.
   As used herein, the term "carrier-linked prodrug" means a prodrug that contains a temporary
   linkage of a biologically active moiety with a transient carrier group that produces improved
35 physicochemical or pharmacokinetic properties and that can be easily removed in vivo,
   usually by a hydrolytic cleavage, i.e. in a carrier-linked prodrug a biologically active moiety
   is conjugated through a reversible linkage to a carrier moiety and which carrier moiety
   produces improved physicochemical or pharmacokinetic properties. Upon cleavage of the
   reversible linkage the biologically active moiety is released as the corresponding drug.

      WO 2014/056915                            14                            PCT/EP2013/070949
   Accordingly, a "polymeric prodrug" is a carrier-linked prodrug in which the carrier is
   polymeric.
   As used herein, the term "promoiety" means the part of the prodrug which is not the drug,
 5 thus linker and carrier and/or any optional spacer moieties.
   As used herein, the term "reversible prodrug linker moiety" means a moiety which on its one
   end is attached to a biologically active moiety D through a reversible linkage and on another
   end is attached through a permanent linkage, which in the present invention is formed by the
 0 reaction of an amine functional group of a backbone moiety or A      2
                                                                          with AY1 , thereby linking
   the biologically active moiety to the hydrogel carrier in the carrier-linked prodrugs of the
   present invention. A "reversible linkage" is a linkage that is non-enzymatically hydrolytically
   degradable, i.e. cleavable, under physiological conditions (aqueous buffer at pH 7.4, 37 0 C)
   with a half-life ranging from one hour to twelve months.
 5
   In contrast, a "permanent linkage" or "stable linkage" is non-enzymatically hydrolytically
   degradable under physiological conditions (aqueous buffer at pH 7.4, 37 0 C) with half-lives of
   more than twelve months.
 0 A "biodegradably linkage" is a linkage that is enzymatically and/or non-enzymatically
   hydrolytically degradable, i.e. cleavable, under physiological conditions (aqueous buffer at
   pH 7.4, 37 0 C) with a half-life ranging from one hour to twelve months. Preferably, also a
   biodegradable linkage is non-enzymatically hydrolytically degradable under physiological
   conditions.
 5
   As used herein, the term "traceless prodrug linker" means a reversible prodrug linker which
   upon cleavage releases the drug in its free form. As used herein, the term "free form" of a
   drug means the drug in its unmodified, pharmacologically active form.
30 As used herein, the term "peptide" means a short polymer of amino acid monomers linked by
   peptide bonds. The term "polypeptide" means a peptide comprising up to and including 50
   amino acid monomers. The term "protein" means a peptide of more than 50 amino acid
   monomers.
35 As used herein, the term "oligonucleotide" means a short nucleic acid polymer of up to 100
   bases.
   As used herein, the term "pharmaceutical composition" means one or more active ingredients,
   and one or more inert ingredients, as well as any product which results, directly or indirectly,

       WO 2014/056915                           15                            PCT/EP2013/070949
   from combination, complexation or aggregation of any two or more of the ingredients, or
   from dissociation of one or more of the ingredients, or from other types of reactions or
   interactions of one or more of the ingredients. Accordingly, the pharmaceutical compositions
   of the present invention encompass any composition made by admixing the carrier-linked
 5 prodrug of the present invention and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipient(s).
   As used herein, the term "excipient" refers to a diluent, adjuvant, or vehicle with which the
   therapeutic is administered. Such pharmaceutical excipient can be sterile liquids, such as
   water and oils, including those of petroleum, animal, vegetable or synthetic origin, including
 0 but not limited to peanut oil, soybean oil, mineral oil, sesame oil and the like. Water is a
   preferred excipient when the pharmaceutical composition is administered orally. Saline and
   aqueous    dextrose are preferred excipients when the pharmaceutical            composition is
   administered intravenously. Saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions are
   preferably employed as liquid excipients for injectable solutions. Suitable pharmaceutical
 5 excipients include starch, glucose, lactose, sucrose, mannitol, trehalose, gelatin, malt, rice,
   flour, chalk, silica gel, sodium stearate, glycerol monostearate, talc, sodium chloride, dried
   skim milk, glycerol, propylene, glycol, water, ethanol and the like. The pharmaceutical
   composition, if desired, can also contain minor amounts of wetting or emulsifying agents, pH
   buffering agents, like, for example, acetate, succinate, tris, carbonate, phosphate, HEPES (4
 0 (2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic     acid), MES (2-(N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic
   acid), or can contain detergents, like Tween, poloxamers, poloxamines, CHAPS, Igepal, or
   amino acids      like, for example,   glycine,   lysine, or histidine. These pharmaceutical
   compositions can take the form of solutions, suspensions, emulsions, tablets, pills, capsules,
   powders, sustained-release formulations and the like. The pharmaceutical composition can be
 5 formulated as a suppository, with traditional binders and excipients such as triglycerides. Oral
   formulation can include standard excipients such as pharmaceutical grades of mannitol,
   lactose, starch, magnesium stearate, sodium saccharine, cellulose, magnesium carbonate, etc.
   Examples of suitable pharmaceutical excipients are described in "Remington's Pharmaceutical
   Sciences" by E.W. Martin. Such compositions will contain a therapeutically effective amount
30 of the drug or biologically active moiety, together with a suitable amount of excipient so as to
   provide the form for proper administration to the patient. The formulation should suit the
   mode of administration.
   The term "pharmaceutically acceptable" means approved by a regulatory agency such as the
35 EMEA (Europe) and/or the FDA (US) and/or any other national regulatory agency for use in
   animals, preferably in humans.
   In general the term "comprise" or "comprising" also encompasses "consist of' or "consisting
   of'.

       WO 2014/056915                             16                         PCT/EP2013/070949
   This invention relates to a polymeric prodrug and/or a pharmaceutical composition
   comprising a polymeric prodrug for use in the prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment of a
   disease of the joint.
 5 The invention further relates to a polymeric prodrug and/or a pharmaceutical composition
   comprising a polymeric prodrug for use for intra-articular injection.
   The invention also relates to a polymeric prodrug and/or a pharmaceutical composition
   comprising a polymeric prodrug for use for intra-articular injection in the prevention,
 0 diagnosis and/or treatment of a disease of the joint.
   Preferably, this invention relates to a polymeric prodrug
           (i)     wherein the polymeric prodrug comprises a polymeric carrier comprising at
           least one polymer, and
 5         (ii)    wherein one or more biologically active moieties are reversibly connected
           through reversible prodrug linker moieties to said polymeric carrier.
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention relates to a polymeric prodrug or a
   pharmaceutical comprising a polymeric prodrug of the present invention, for use in the
 0 prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment of a disease of the joint,
           (i)     wherein the polymeric prodrug comprises a polymeric carrier comprising at
           least one polymer, and
           (ii)    wherein one or more biologically active moieties are reversibly connected
           through reversible prodrug linker moieties to said polymeric carrier.
 5
   The polymeric prodrug or pharmaceutical composition comprising one or more polymeric
   prodrugs for use in the prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment of a disease of the joint
   preferably is injectable into a joint.
30 Thus, in a preferred embodiment, the present invention relates to a polymeric prodrug or
   pharmaceutical composition of the present invention, for use for injection into a joint.
   The polymeric prodrug comprises a polymeric carrier which carrier comprises at least one
   polymer and to which polymeric carrier one or more biologically active moieties are
35 reversibly connected through reversible prodrug linker moieties, and which biologically
   active moieties are released from said polymeric prodrug as drugs upon intra-articular
   administration, i.e. administration into a joint.

       WO 2014/056915                            17                               PCT/EP2013/070949
   The polymeric carrier comprises, preferably consist of at least one polymer which is more
   preferably selected from the group of polypeptides, poly(acrylic acids), poly(acrylates),
   poly(acrylamides), poly(alkyloxy) polymers, poly(amides), poly(amidoamines), poly(amino
   acids),   poly(anhydrides),    poly(aspartamide),      poly(butyric     acid),    poly(caprolacton),
 5 poly(carbonates),       poly(cyanoacrylates),       poly(dimethylacrylamide),           poly(esters),
   poly(ethylene),    poly(ethylene    glycol),    poly(ethylene     oxide),      poly(ethyloxazo line),
   poly(glycolic     acid),     poly(hydroxyethyl        acrylate),     poly(hydroxyethyloxazo line),
   poly(hydroxypropylmethacrylamide),                poly(hydroxypropyl                  methacrylate),
   poly(hydroxypropyloxazo line),       poly(iminocarbonates),         poly(N-isopropylacrylamide),
 0 poly(lactic acid), poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid), poly(methacrylamide), poly(methacrylates),
   poly(methyloxazo line), poly(propylene fumarate), poly(organophosphazenes), poly(ortho
   esters),   poly(oxazolines),   poly(propylene     glycol),     poly(siloxanes),     poly(urethanes),
   poly(vinylalcohols),     poly(vinylamines),    poly(vinylmethylether),      poly(vinylpyrrolidone),
   silicones, ribonucleic acids, desoxynucleic acid, albumins, antibodies and fragments thereof,
 5 blood plasma protein, collagens, elastin, fascin, fibrin, keratins, polyaspartate, polyglutamate,
   prolamins, transferrins, cytochromes, flavoprotein, glycoproteins, hemoproteins, lipoproteins,
   metalloproteins, phytochromes, phosphoproteins, opsins, agar, agarose, alginate, arabinans,
   arabinogalactans,     carrageenan,    cellulose,     carbomethyl       cellulose,     hydroxypropyl
   methylcellulose and other carbohydrate-based polymers, chitosan, dextran, dextrin, gelatin,
 0 hyaluronic acid and derivatives, mannan, pectins, rhamnogalacturonans, starch, hydroxyalkyl
   starch, xylan, and copolymers and functionalized derivatives thereof.
   In one embodiment the polymeric carrier is a soluble polymeric carrier. In this embodiment it
   is preferred that the soluble polymeric carrier comprises, preferably consists of, a linear,
 5 branched or dendrimeric PEG-based chain.
   In another embodiment the polymeric carrier is a water-insoluble polymeric carrier. In this
   embodiment it is preferred that the water-insoluble polymeric carrier comprises, preferably
   consists of, a hydrogel, more preferably a hyaluronic acid-based hydrogel or a PEG-based
30 hydrogel. Most preferably, the water-insoluble polymeric carrier is a PEG-based hydrogel.
   The hydrogel is a shaped article, preferably in the shape of microparticles. More preferably,
   the hydrogel is in the shape of microparticulate beads. Even more preferably, such
   microparticulate beads have a diameter of 1 to 1000 gm, more preferably of 5 to 500 gm,
35 more preferably of 10 to 100 gm, even more preferably of 20 to 80 gm. Equally preferred are
   microparticulate beads with a diameter of 10 to 250 gm, more preferably of 10 to 200 gm,
   even more preferably of 30 to 190 gm and most preferably of 50 to 180 gm. Bead diameters
   are measured when the microparticulate beads are suspended in an isotonic aqueous buffer.

       WO 2014/056915                              18                           PCT/EP2013/070949
   Such hydrogel may be polymerized in different ways, such as through radical polymerization,
   ionic polymerization or ligation reactions. Preferred hydrogels, hydrogel-linked prodrugs and
   their methods of polymerization are disclosed in WO-A 2006/003014 and WO-A
   2011/012715, which are hereby enclosed by reference in their entirety.
 5
   In a particularly preferred embodiment, the carrier of the polymeric prodrug is a hydrogel
   obtainable by a process comprising the steps of:
            (a) providing a mixture comprising
 0
                (a-i) at least one backbone reagent, wherein the at least one backbone reagent has
                       a molecular weight ranging from 1 to 100 kDa, and comprises at least three
                       amines (-NH 2 and/or -NH-);
 5              (a-ii) at least one crosslinker reagent, wherein the at least one crosslinker reagent
                       has a molecular weight ranging from 0.5 kDa to 40 kDa or ranging from 0.5
                       kDa to 15 kDa, preferably from 1 kDa to 40 kDa or from 1 kDa to 10 kDa,
                       even more preferably from 2 to 40 kDa or from 2 kDa to 5 kDa, even more
                       preferably from 6 to 40 kDa, the at least one crosslinker reagent comprising
 0                     (i) at least two carbonyloxy groups (-(C=O)-O- or -O-(C=O)-), and
                            additionally
                       (ii) at least two activated functional end groups selected from the group
                            consisting of activated ester groups, activated carbamate groups,
                            activated carbonate groups and activated thiocarbonate groups,
 5                     and being PEG-based comprising at least 70% PEG; and
                (a-iii)a first solvent and at least a second solvent, which second solvent is
                       immiscible in the first solvent,
30              in a weight ratio of the at least one backbone reagent to the at least one crosslinker
                reagent ranging from 1:99 to 99:1;
   (b)     polymerizing the mixture of step (a) in a suspension polymerization to a hydrogel; and
35 (c)      optionally working-up the hydrogel.
   The mixture of step (a) comprises a first solvent and at least a second second solvent. Said
   first solvent is preferably selected from the group comprising dichloromethane, chloroform,
   tetrahydrofuran, ethyl acetate, dimethylformamide, acetonitrile, dimethyl sulfoxide, propylene

       WO 2014/056915                            19                           PCT/EP2013/070949
   carbonate, N-methylpyrrolidone, methanol, ethanol, isopropanol and water and mixtures
   thereof.
   The at least one backbone reagent and at least one crosslinker reagent are dissolved in the first
 5 solvent, i.e. the disperse phase of the suspension polymerization. In one embodiment the
   backbone reagent and the crosslinker reagent are dissolved separately, i.e. in different
   containers, using either the same or different solvent and preferably using the same solvent
   for both reagents. In another embodiment, the backbone reagent and the crosslinker reagent
   are dissolved together, i.e. in the same container and using the same solvent.
 0
   A suitable solvent for the backbone reagent is an organic solvent. Preferably, the solvent is
   selected from the group consisting of dichloromethane, chloroform, tetrahydrofuran, ethyl
   acetate, dimethylformamide, acetonitrile, dimethyl sulfoxide, propylene carbonate, N
   methylpyrrolidone, methanol, ethanol, isopropanol and water and mixtures thereof More
 5 preferably, the backbone reagent is dissolved in a solvent selected from the group comprising
   acetonitrile, dimethyl sulfoxide, methanol or mixtures thereof. Most preferably, the backbone
   reagent is dissolved in dimethylsulfoxide.
   In one embodiment the backbone reagent is dissolved in the solvent in a concentration
 0 ranging from 1 to 300 mg/ml, more preferably from 5 to 60 mg/ml and most preferably from
   10 to 40 mg/ml.
   A suitable solvent for the crosslinker reagent is an organic solvent. Preferably, the solvent is
   selected from the group comprising dichloromethane, chloroform, tetrahydrofuran, ethyl
 5 acetate, dimethylformamide, acetonitrile, dimethyl sulfoxide, propylene carbonate, N
   methylpyrrolidone, methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, water or mixtures thereof. More
   preferably, the crosslinker reagent is dissolved in a solvent selected from the group
   comprising dimethylformamide, acetonitrile, dimethyl sulfoxide, methanol or mixtures
   thereof. Most preferably, the crosslinker reagent is dissolved in dimethylsulfoxide.
30
   In one embodiment the crosslinker reagent is dissolved in the solvent in a concentration
   ranging from 5 to 500 mg/ml, more preferably from 25 to 300 mg/ml and most preferably
   from 50 to 200 mg/ml.
35 The at least one backbone reagent and the at least one crosslinker reagent are mixed in a
   weight ratio ranging from 1:99 to 99:1, e.g. in a ratio ranging from 2:98 to 90:10, in a weight
   ratio ranging from 3:97 to 88:12, in a weight ratio ranging from 3:96 to 85:15, in a weight
   ratio ranging from 2:98 to 90:10 and in a weight ratio ranging from 5:95 to 80:20; particularly

       WO 2014/056915                               20                               PCT/EP2013/070949
   preferred in a weight ratio from 5:95 to 80:20, wherein the first number refers to the backbone
   reagent and the second number to the crosslinker reagent.
   Preferably, the ratios are selected such that the mixture of step (a) comprises a molar excess of
 5 amine groups from the backbone reagent compared to the activated functional end groups of
   the crosslinker reagent. Consequently, the hydrogel resulting from the process of the present
   invention has free amine groups which can be used to couple a prodrug linker reagent to the
   hydrogel, either directly or through a spacer moiety.
 0 The at least one second solvent, i.e. the continuous phase of the suspension polymerization, is
   preferably an organic solvent, more preferably an organic solvent selected from the group
   comprising linear, branched or cyclic C5 _30 alkanes; linear, branched or cyclic C5 _30 alkenes;
   linear, branched or cyclic C5 _30 alkynes; linear or cyclic poly(dimethylsiloxanes); aromatic C6 _
   20 hydrocarbons; and mixtures thereof Even more preferably, the at least second solvent is
 5 selected from the group comprising linear, branched or cyclic C5          16  alkanes; toluene; xylene;
   mesitylene; hexamethyldisiloxane; or mixtures thereof. Most preferably, the at least second
   solvent selected from the group comprising linear C7 1 1 alkanes, such as heptane, octane,
   nonane, decane and undecane.
 0 Preferably, the mixture of step (a) further comprises a detergent. Preferred detergents are
   Cithrol DPHS, Hypermer 70A, Hypermer B246, Hypermer 1599A, Hypermer 2296, and
   Hypermer 1083.
   Preferably, the detergent has a concentration of 0.1 g to 100 g per 1 L total mixture, i.e.
 5 disperse phase and continous phase together. More preferably, the detergent has a
   concentration of 0.5 g to 10 g per 1 L total mixture, and most preferably, the detergent has a
   concentration of 0.5 g to 5 g per 1 L total mixture.
   Preferably, the mixture of step (a) is an emulsion.
30
   The polymerization in step (b) is initiated by adding a base. Preferably, the base is a non
   nucleophilic base soluble in alkanes, more preferably the base is selected from N,N,N',N'
   tetramethylethylene diamine (TMEDA),             1,4-dimethylpiperazine,      4-methylmorpholine, 4
   ethylmorpholine,                     1,4-diazabicyclo[2.2.2]octane,                       1,1,4,7,10,10
35 hexamethyltriethylenetetramine,              1,4,7-trimethyl- 1,4,7-triazacyclononane,            tris[2
   (dimethylamino)ethyl]amine,          triethylamine,      DIPEA,              trimethylamine,       N,N
   dimethylethylamine,           N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl- 1,6-hexanediamine,                 N,N,N',N",N"
   pentamethyldiethylenetriamine,                  1,8-diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undec-7-ene,                  1,5
   diazabicyclo[4.3.0]non-5-ene, and hexamethylenetetramine. Even more preferably, the base is

       WO 2014/056915                              21                            PCT/EP2013/070949
   selected from TMEDA, 1,4-dimethylpiperazine, 4-methylmorpho line, 4-ethylmorpho line, 1,4
   diazabicyclo [2.2.2]octane,     1,1,4,7,10,1 0-hexamethyltriethylenetetramine,      1,4,7-trimethyl
   1,4,7-triazacyclononane, tris[2-(dimethylamino)ethyl]amine, 1,8-diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undec-7
   ene, 1,5-diazabicyclo[4.3.0]non-5-ene,       and hexamethylenetetramine. Most preferably, the
 5 base is TMEDA.
   The base is added to the mixture of step (a) in an amount of 1 to 500 equivalents per activated
   functional end group in the mixture, preferably in an amount of 5 to 50 equivalents, more
   preferably in an amount of 5 to 25 equivalents and most preferably in an amount of 10
 0 equivalents.
   In process step (b), the polymerization of the hydrogel of the present invention is a
   condensation reaction, which preferably occurs under continuous stirring of the mixture of
   step (a). Preferably, the tip speed (tip speed   = 7r x stirrer rotational speed x stirrer diameter)
 5 ranges from 0.2 to 10 meter per second (m/s), more preferably from 0.5 to 4 m/s and most
   preferably from 1 to 2 m/s.
   In a preferred embodiment of step (b), the polymerization reaction is carried out in a
   cylindrical vessel equipped with baffles. The diameter to height ratio of the vessel may range
 0 from 4:1 to 1:2, more preferably the diameter to height ratio of the vessel ranges from 2:1 to
   1:1.
   Preferably, the reaction vessel is equipped with an axial flow stirrer selected from the group
   comprising pitched blade stirrer, marine type propeller, or Lightnin A-3 10. More preferably,
 5 the stirrer is a pitched blade stirrer.
   Step (b) can be performed in a broad temperature range, preferably at a temperature from
   -10 0 C to 100 C', more preferably at a temperature of 00 C to 80'C, even more preferably at a
   temperature of 100 C to 50 'C and most preferably at ambient temperature. "Ambient
30 temperature" refers to the temperature present in a typical laboratory environment and
   preferably means a temperature ranging from 17 to 25'C.
   Preferably, the hydrogel obtained from the polymerization is a shaped article, such as a
   coating, mesh, stent, nanoparticle or a microparticle. More preferably, the hydrogel is in the
35 form of microparticular beads having a diameter from 1 to 500 micrometer, more preferably
   with a diameter from 10 to 300 micrometer, even more preferably with a diameter from 20
   and 150 micrometer and most preferably with a diameter from 30 to 130 micrometer. The
   afore-mentioned diameters are measured when the hydrogel microparticles are fully hydrated
   in water.

        WO 2014/056915                            22                             PCT/EP2013/070949
   Optional step (c) comprises one or more of the following step(s):
   (c1)    removing excess liquid from the polymerization reaction,
   (c2)    washing the hydrogel to remove solvents used during polymerization,
   (c3)    transferring the hydrogel into a buffer solution,
 5 (c4)    size fractionating/sieving of the hydrogel,
   (c5)    transferring the hydrogel into a container,
   (c6)    drying the hydrogel,
   (c7)    transferring the hydrogel into a specific solvent suitable for sterilization, and
   (c8)    sterilizing the hydrogel, preferably by gamma radiation
 0
   Preferably, optional step (c) comprises all of the following steps
   (c1)    removing excess liquid from the polymerization reaction,
   (c2)    washing the hydrogel to remove solvents used during polymerization,
   (c3)    transferring the hydrogel into a buffer solution,
 5 (c4)    size fractionating/sieving of the hydrogel,
   (c5)    transferring the hydrogel into a container,
   (c7)    transferring the hydrogel into a specific solvent suitable for sterilization, and
   (c8)    sterilizing the hydrogel, preferably by gamma radiation.
 0 The at least one backbone reagent has a molecular weight ranging from 1 to 100 kDa,
   preferably from 2 to 50 kDa, more preferably from 5 and 30 kDa, even more preferably from
   5 to 25 kDa and most preferably from 5 to 15 kDa.
   Preferably, the backbone reagent is PEG-based comprising at least 10% PEG, more preferably
 5 comprising at least 20% PEG, even more preferably comprising at least 30% PEG and most
   preferably comprising at least 40% PEG.
   In one embodiment the backbone reagent is present in the form of its acidic salt, preferably in
   the form of an acid addition salt. Suitable acid addition salts are formed from acids which
30 form non-toxic salts. Examples include but are not limited to the acetate, aspartate, benzoate,
   besylate, bicarbonate, carbonate, bisulphate, sulphate, borate, camsylate, citrate, edisylate,
   esylate, formate, fumarate, gluceptate, gluconate, glucuronate, hexafluorophosphate,
   hibenzate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, hydroiodide, isethionate, lactate, malate, maleate,
   malonate, mesylate, methylsulphate, naphthylate, nicotinate, nitrate, orotate, oxalate,
35 palmitate, pamoate, phosphate, hydrogen phosphate, dihydrogen phosphate, sacharate,
   stearate, succinate, tartrate and tosylate. Particularly preferred, the backbone reagent is present
   in the form of its hydrochloride salt.
   In one embodiment, the at least one backbone reagent is selected from the group consisting of

   WO 2014/056915                                  23                            PCT/EP2013/070949
      a compound of formula (a-I)
     B(- (A )x1 - (SP)x 2 - A'- P - A2 - Hyp1 )x (a-I),
 5   wherein
     B            is a branching core,
      SP          is a spacer moiety selected from the group consisting of C1 -6 alkyl, C2 -6
                  alkenyl and C2 -6 alkynyl,
      P           is a PEG-based polymeric chain comprising at least 80% PEG, preferably at
 0                least 85% PEG, more preferably at least 90% PEG and most preferably at
                  least 95% PEG,
      Hyp1        is a moiety comprising an amine (-NH              2  and/or -NH-) or a polyamine
                  comprising at least two amines (-NH 2 and/or -NH-),
      x           is an integer from 3 to 16,
 5    xl, x2      are independently of each other 0 or 1, provided that xl is 0, if x2 is 0,
     A , A', A2         are independently of each other selected from the group consisting of
                                                            0
                                                                     I        I      I         I
             _L    4I        g    I       I
                                                .I
                                                       , ||
                                                        ;   11
                                                                              ,,
                                              R
                    0            0                    0             R                     0
                      40-+    4     -O-N-,                          N1-C+4-,     IN-        -N--,
                         I                                  RI   H-NC-I                1la'   Rl
                                S                         0                  0
                             IN--N          ,   IN-           -O  ,      0-C-N+
                            11   1    la              1
                           R        R               R                            R
                                                                       0
                                                                 1/
                                                            0
                                              /         - and
           wherein R 1 and Ria are independently of each other selected from H and C1 -6
20         alkyl;
      a compound of formula (a-II)
     Hyp2 - A _-P - A4 - Hyp 3           (a-II),
25

     WO 2014/056915                                     24                               PCT/EP2013/070949
   wherein
          P                   is defined as above in the compound of formula (a-I),
          Hyp  2
                 , Hyp3       are independently of each other a polyamine comprising at least two
                              amines (-NH 2 and/or -NH-), and
 5        A3  and A    4
                              are independently selected from the group consisting of
                                                                   0
                                                                                      I     I         I
                   _L    4I        g    I       I
                                                      .
                                                      I
                                                            ,  ;
                                                                   ||
                                                                   11       I
                                                                                      ,,
                                                    R
                          0            0                   0                R                    0
                            40-+    4       O           +     -N-,          N1-C+4-,     +N-       -N--,
                               I                                   R1                         1la'
                                                                                           III-----  Rl
                                      S                          0                   0
                                   IN--N          ,   IN-            -O   ,      0-C-N+
                                  11   1    la             1
                                 R        R              R                               R
                                                                               0
                                                                         1/
                                                                   0
                                                    /    b-          and
            wherein R1 and Ria are independently of each other selected from H and C 1-6 alkyl;
 0        a compound of formula (a-III)
          P1 -A    5  - Hyp4                   (a-III),
          wherein
15        P1                  is a PEG-based polymeric chain comprising at least 80% PEG,
                              preferably at least 85% PEG, more preferably at least 90% PEG and
                              most preferably at least 95% PEG,
          Hyp 4               is a polyamine comprising at least three amines (-NH 2 and/or -NH-),
                              and
20        A5                  is selected from the group consisting of

   WO 2014/056915                              25                         PCT/EP2013/070949
                                                       0
                                          R
                   0             0                0              R               0
                               ;-O4
                            -0-+,
                               -          ,    +1   - N     ,   N-C+,L-   IN-      -N     ,
                               S                     0                  0
                                    Nt- ,       N-     -O     ,  --   0-C-N+,
                          R        RIL          R                         R
                                                                    0
                                                              1x
                                                       0
                                           /    N       and
       wherein R1 and Ria are independently of each other selected from H and C 1-6 alkyl;
 5    and
      a compound of formula (a-IV),
      T i - A 6 - Hyp5                 (a-IV),
 0
     wherein
      Hyp5        is a polyamine comprising at least three amines (-NH 2 and/or -NH-), and
      A6          is selected from the group consisting of
15

       WO 2014/056915                           26                             PCT/EP2013/070949
                                                        0
                     NO , NS ir,          -N     ,            ,      S  S    ,         N=       ,
                                             R     11
                       0           0               0               R                    0
                                                         1                            1
                                                                                 NN-C----   kla
                                  S                   0                   0
                             L _-      la          1-      O_                1
                              R       RILR                            O -      R
                                                                     0
                                                                1x
                                                        0
                                             /   N       and
                      wherein R1 and Ria are independently of each other selected from H and C1-6
                      alkyl; and
 5          Ti        is selected from the group consisting of C1 _5 0 alkyl, C2 -5 o alkenyl orC2-so
                      alkynyl, which fragment is optionally interrupted by one or more group(s)
                      selected from -NH-, -N(C 1 _4 alkyl)-, -0-, -S-, -C(O)-, -C(O)NH-,
                      C(O)N(C 1 _4 alkyl)-, -0-C(O)-, -S(O)-, -S(0) 2 -, 4- to 7-membered
                      heterocyclyl, phenyl or naphthyl.
 0
   In the following sections the term "Hyp" refers to Hyp1 , Hyp2 , Hyp3 , Hyp4 and Hyp5
   collectively.
   Preferably, the backbone reagent is a compound of formula (a-I), (a-II) or (a-III), more
15 preferably the backbone reagent is a compound of formula (a-I) or (a-III), and most preferably
   the backbone reagent is a compound of formula (a-I).
   In a preferred embodiment, in a compound of formula (a-I), x is 4, 6 or 8. Preferably, in a
   compound of formula (a-I) x is 4 or 8, most preferably, x is 4.
20
                                                                                        0
   In a preferred embodiment in the compounds of the formulas (a-I) to (a-IV), A , A', A 2, A ,
   A4 , A 5 and A6 are selected from the group comprising

      WO 2014/056915                           27                          PCT/EP2013/070949
                       o                H                         0
         -O--C-N-                 ,    IN-C-      , and    -- N-C-N
                           H                0                 H       H
   Preferably, in a compound of formula (a-I), A is
                       o                    H
         0             C-N-       ,  and -N-C         .
                           H                    0
   Preferably, in a compound of formula (a-I), A is
                       o                    H
         0              C-N-      ,  and -,-N-C-      .
                           H                    0
 5
   Preferably, in a compound of formula (a-I), A2 is
        H                           0
        N-C--         and    -N-C-N
                                H       H
   Preferably, in a compound of formula (a-II), A3
         0
         Cl-N     I
                        and HN-C-N   I
                H               H       H
 0 and A 4 is
         H                           0
     -- N-C-|-,        and   -|-N-C-N-|
                                H       H
   Preferably, in a compound of formula (a-III), A 5
         H                           0
     -- N-C-|- , and         -- N-C-N-+
                                H       H
   Preferably, in a compound of formula (a-IV), A6 is
                       o                    H
         O   I-N                  ,  and -N-CN-       .
                           H                    0
15
   Preferably, in a compound of formula (a-IV), Ti is selected from H and C1 -6 alkyl.

      WO 2014/056915                         28                              PCT/EP2013/070949
  In one embodiment, in a compound of formula (a-I), the branching core B is selected from the
  following structures:
             (a-i)              (a-u)                                           (aiv
                                                     (a-iii)                    (a-iv)
                                        V                          V
                   (a-v)                 (a-vi)                 (a-vii)
                      (a-viii)                  ix)                          (a-x)
              0                         0                          0
                     (a-xi)                       xii)                    (a-xiii)
                                                    (a-xv)
                     (a-xiv)                                         N
                                                                         (a-xviii)
                0          v (a-xvii)I
                                         --     t
                                (a-xvi)
                                                             )--        (a-xix)
5

       WO 2014/056915                                 29                             PCT/EP2013/070949
                                O0
                                                    (a-xx)       a-xx)(a-xxi)                     (a-xx)
                                                  t
                  ',         o
                                            %I                                0                 0
                                    00                                                                  0
                                                              tt
            wherein
            dashed lines indicate attachment to A or, if x1 and x2 are both 0, to A',
 5          t           is 1 or 2; preferably t is 1,
            v           is 1, 2,3,4,5, ,6,7,8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 or 14; preferably, v is2, 3, 4, 5, 6;
                        more preferably, v is 2, 4 or 6; most preferably, v is 2.
   In a preferred embodiment, B has a structure of formula (a-i), (a-ii), (a-iii), (a-iv), (a-v), (a-vi),
 0 (a-vii), (a-viii), (a-ix), (a-x), (a-xiv), (a-xv) or (a-xvi). More preferably, B has a structure of
   formula (a-iii), (a-iv), (a-v), (a-vi), (a-vii), (a-viii), (a-ix), (a-x) or (a-iv). Most preferably, B
   has a structure of formula (a-xiv).
   A preferred embodiment is a combination of B and A0 , or, if x1 and x2 are both 0 a preferred
15 combination of B and A', which is selected from the following structures:
                              --     L-O
                                       O       (i00
                       -                  I    (b-i)(b)

       WO 2014/056915                           30                           PCT/EP2013/070949
                         0        0
                              00      0'                    0.           0
                                                 (b-iii)                            (b-iv)
                                         oo,
                                     00
                                                                                         (b-vi)
                                                  (b-v)
                                '0    >K0
                        ~0        0       0                       0
                                                  (b-vii)
          wherein
 5        dashed lines indicate attachment to SP or, if x1 and x2 are both 0, to P.
   More preferably, the combination of B and A0 or, if x1 and x2 are both 0, the combination of
   B and A', has a structure of formula of formula (b-i), (b-iv), (b-vi) or (b-viii) and most
   preferably has a structure of formula of formula (b-i).
 0
   In one embodiment, x1 and x2 of formula (a-I) are 0.
   In one embodiment, the PEG-based polymeric chain P has a molecular weight from 0.3 kDa
   to 40 kDa; e.g. from 0.4 to 35 kDa, from 0.6 to 38 kDA, from 0.8 to 30 kDa, from 1 to 25
15 kDa, from 1 to 15 kDa or from 1 to 10 kDa. Most preferably P has a molecular weight from 1
   to 10 kDa.
   In one embodiment, the PEG-based polymeric chain P1 has a molecular weight from 0.3 kDa
   to 40 kDa; e.g. from 0.4 to 35 kDa, from 0.6 to 38 kDA, from 0.8 to 30 kDa, from 1 to 25
20 kDa, from 1 to 15 kDa or from 1 to 10 kDa. Most preferably P1 has a molecular weight from 1
   to 10 kDa.
   In one embodiment, in the compounds of formulas (a-I) or (a-II), P has the structure of
   formula (c-i):
25

       WO 2014/056915                               31                         PCT/EP2013/070949
                                                   (c-i),
           wherein n ranges from 6 to 900, more preferably n ranges from 20 to 700 and most
           preferably n ranges from 20 to 250.
5
  In one embodiment, in the compounds of formulas (a-III), P1 has the structure of formula (c
  ii):
                                                       (c-ii),
0
           wherein
           n     ranges from 6 to 900, more preferably n ranges from 20 to 700 and most
                 preferably n ranges from 20 to 250;
           T     is selected from the group comprising C 1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl and C2-6 alkynyl,
5                which is optionally interrupted by one or more group(s) selected from -NH-,
                 N(C 1 _4 alkyl)-, -0-, -S-, -C(O)-, -C(O)NH-, -C(O)N(C 1 _4 alkyl)-, -O-C(O)-,
                 S(O)- or -S(O)2-.
  In one embodiment, in the compounds of formulas (a-I) to (a-IV), the moiety Hypx is a
0 polyamine and preferably comprises in bound form and, where applicable, in R- and/or S
  configuration a moiety of the formulas (d-i), (d-ii), (d-iii) and/or (d-iv):
                            H
           H2 N               N           NH 2 (d-i),
                  0
           HO                       NH 2
                      NH0
                                            (d-ii),
                  0                   0
           HO                             OH
                      NH      Ad0HNH
                             N H 2N H2(d-iii),

      WO 2014/056915                               32                           PCT/EP2013/070949
                                  NH 2
                    0              ]z5
                        II N
             H 0-                        NH 2
                               HN    z6  N       (d-iv),
           wherein
           zl, z2, z3, z4, z5, z6 are independently of each other 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8.
 5 More preferably, HypX comprises in bound form and in R- and/or S-configuration lysine,
   ornithine, diaminoproprionic acid and/or diaminobutyric acid. Hyp comprises in bound form
   and in R- and/or S-configuation lysine.
   Hypx has a molecular weight from 40 Da to 30 kDa, preferably from 0.3 kDa to 25 kDa, more
 0 preferably from 0.5 kDa to 20 kDa, even more preferably from 1 kDa to 20 kDa and most
   preferably from 2 kDa to 15 kDa.
   Hypx is preferably selected from the group consisting of
 5 a moiety of formula (e-i)
                                          N H2
                                                      NH 2      (e-i)
                                                     PI
           wherein
           pl         is an integer from 1 to 5, preferably p1 is 4, and
20         the dashed line indicates attachment to A 2 if the backbone reagent has a structure of
           formula (a-I) and to A3 or A 4 if the backbone reagent has the structure of formula (a
           II);
   a moiety of formula (e-ii)

      WO 2014/056915                                33                        PCT/EP2013/070949
                                         0
                                 HN                      N H2
                                            NH
                                                 2
                                                                       (e-ii)
                                               H       NH 2
                                                                NH   2
                                              PN3Y             P4
                                                   0
          wherein
          p2, p3 and p4      are identical or different and each is independently of the others an
 5                           integer from 1 to 5, preferably p2, p3 and p4 are 4, and
          the dashed line indicates attachment to A2 if the backbone reagent has a structure of
          formula (a-I), to A3 or A4 if the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-II), to
          A 5 if the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-III) and to A6 if the backbone
          reagent has a structure of formula (a-IV);
 0
   a moiety of formula (e-iii)
                           0                     0
                      HN                    NN                     H
                                                      SH 2     6     2
                                                      NH 2
                                         NH 2
                             HN                    NH  2
                                      4Y,4P7
                                    0          0                               (e-fii)
                                            HN              P8NH 2
                                                   NH 2
                                         H           N        NH 2
                                                             SNH
                                                                         2
                                 p9                 pH211
                                       0                  0
          wherein
15        p5 to p1 1 are identical or different and each is independently of the others an integer
                       from I to 5, preferably p5 to p1 1 are 4, and

      WO 2014/056915                               34                          PCT/EP2013/070949
          the dashed line indicates attachment to A 2 if the backbone reagent is of formula (a-I),
          to A3 or A 4 if the backbone reagent is of formula (a-II), to A 5 if the backbone reagent
          is of formula (a-III) and to A6 if the backbone reagent is of formula (a-IV);
 5 a moiety of formula (e-iv)
                      0                0                 0
                        "k         H                H
               HN                  NN                               NH   2
                                       P12          p13 'P           14
                                   P1NH               2      NH2
                                        HN                  NH   2
                                                           p 15
                                     0         0
                                   HN            pNH   2
                                HN               P16
                                         NH   2  NH2
                                                  N 2
                          HN              NH                NH 2
                                          P17              P 18
                              0   0            0
                                                   H                NH 2
                                 HN                N9          H   P20
                                                     HN                 21
                                    22                     P21
                                   00                   0 NH     2  NH2
                             22         HH2 N3                                     (eNiH)
   wherein
          p12 to p26 are identical or different and each is independently of the others an integer
                        from 1 to 5, preferably p 12 to p26 are 4, and
10        the dashed line indicates attachment to A2 if the backbone reagent has a structure of
          formula (a-I), to A3 or A4 if the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-II), to
          A 5 if the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-III) and to A6 if the backbone
          reagent has a structure of formula (a-IV);
15 a moiety of formula (e-v)

      WO 2014/056915                                35                          PCT/EP2013/070949
                                               NH 2
                                            P 27
                                                 0
                                                           NH 2         (e-v)
                                           N
                                           H - q
                                                            E
                                                            P28
                                                                NH  2
          wherein
          p27 and p28 are identical or different and each is independently of the other an integer
                         from 1 to 5, preferably p27 and p28 are 4,
 5        q             is an integer from 1 to 8, preferably q is 2 or 6 and most preferably 1 is 6,
                         and
          the dashed line indicates attachment to A 2 if the backbone reagent has a structure of
          formula (a-I), to A3 or A4 if the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-II), to
          A 5 if the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-III) and to A6 if the backbone
 0        reagent has a structure of formula (a-IV);
   a moiety of formula (e-vi)
                                                   NH   2
                                                  p 29
                                             SNH2                (e-vi)
                                                       p30
          wherein
 5        p 2 9 and p30 are identical or different and each is independently of the other an integer
                         from 2 to 5, preferably p29 and p30 are 3, and
          the dashed line indicates attachment to A 2 if the backbone reagent has the structure of
          formula (a-I), to A 3 or A 4 if the backbone reagent has the structure of formula (a-II), to
          A 5 if the backbone reagent has the structure of formula (a-III) and to A6 if the
20        backbone reagent has the structure of formula (a-IV);
   a moiety of formula (e-vii)

     WO 2014/056915                            36                            PCT/EP2013/070949
                                                     NH  2
                                               -    p32
                                         H H
                                       _N      N+       p, 3H 2
                                        P31 0                        (e-vii)
                                                         NH2
                                            H           p35
                                        N           NL      p 6H2
                                                 0
         wherein
         p31 to p36 are identical or different and each is independently of the others an integer
                      from 2 to 5, preferably p31 to p36 are 3, and
5        the dashed line indicates attachment to A2 if the backbone reagent has a structure of
         formula (a-I), to A3 or A4 if the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-IT), to
         A 5 if the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-ITT) and to A6 if the backbone
         reagent has a structure of formula (a-IV);
0 a moiety of formula (e-viii)

      WO 2014/056915                               37                              PCT/EP2013/070949
                                                  I      NH 2
                                        H                 P39
                                        N           N1   4      NH    2
                                        P38                     P40
                                                               NH2
                                                   0
                          H                    H                P42.
                          N         N      4   N          N           -NH     2
                          p37                  P41                  - P43
                                                           I  NH2
                                             H                   P46
                                                        N     4
                                                                     NH     2
                                             N
                                             P45                  -p47
                                                  O                 NH    2
                                H                -H                  P49
                       N        N       N,          N          N              NH   (e-vii)
                                                                                 2
                                 44                 Pp48                 - P50
   wherein
          p37 to p50 are identical or different and each is independently of the others an integer
                       from 2 to 5, preferably p37 to p50 are 3, and
 5        the dashed line indicates attachment to A 2 if the backbone reagent has a structure of
          formula (a-I), to A3 or A4 if the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-II), to
          A 5 if the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-III) and to A6 if the backbone
          reagent has a structure of formula (a-IV); and
10 a moiety of formula (e-ix):

    WO 2014/056915                              38                                PCT/EP2013/070949
                                                 [     NH 2
                                         H             P54
                                         N         N kNH             2
                                        P531                   p5 5
                                                          I  NH2
                          H                  H                p57
                                                        N            NH2
                                     N,         5I
                            5
                                ON
                                N
                                                            NH2
                                            H               p61
                                              6        N J           NH   2
                                                    p6JO            p62
                                                                     NH2
                                                     O
            H                     H                  H               p64
            N          N+_        N      N ,_,       NI         N            p H2
                                                            NH2
                                            H              rp 69
                                            N          N            NH2
                                         I  p68          f         p70
                                                                  NH    2
                              H                    H               p72
                                           {> N
                                        N Lip711                    N {NH 2
                              NP67                              -F        P73
                                    O                     1      NH    2
                                                  H               p76
                                                  N         N               H2
                                                   P75                   p77
                                                       O                  NH2
            NN                               N           NNH         N_           2      (e-ix)
                           00                                   0
  wherein
         p51 to p80 are identical or different and each is independently of the others an integer
                     from 2 to 5, preferably p51 to p80 are 3, and
5        the dashed line indicates attachment to A2 if the backbone reagent has a structure of
         formula (a-I), to A3 or A4 if the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-II), to

       WO 2014/056915                             39                               PCT/EP2013/070949
            A5 if the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-III) and to A6 if the backbone
            reagent has a structure of formula (a-IV); and
   wherein the moieties (e-i) to (e-v) may at each chiral center be in either R- or S-configuration,
 5 preferably, all chiral centers of a moiety (e-i) to (e-v) are in the same configuration.
   Preferably, Hypx is has a structure of formulas (e-i), (e-ii), (e-iii), (e-iv), (e-vi), (e-vii), (e-viii)
   or (e-ix). More preferably, Hypx has a structure of formulas (e-ii), (e-iii), (e-iv), (e-vii), (e
   viii) or (e-ix), even more preferably Hypx has a structure of formulas (e-ii), (e-iii), (e-vii) or
 0 (e-viii) and most preferably Hypx has the structure of formula (e-iii).
   If the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-I), a preferred moiety - A2 - Hyp' is a
   moiety of the formula
                           H            1
                         , NyE
                                0
 5          wherein
            the dashed line indicates attachment to P; and
            El is selected from formulas (e-i) to (e-ix).
                                                                                                    3
   If the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-II) a preferred moiety Hyp2           - A - is a
 0 moiety of the formula
                 1
               E           N
                      0
            wherein
            the dashed line indicates attachment to P; and
            El is selected from formulas (e-i) to (e-ix);
25
   and a preferred moiety - A4 - Hyp3 is a moiety of the formula
                          H         1
                      'N          E
            wherein

      WO 2014/056915                              40                         PCT/EP2013/070949
          the dashed line indicates attachment to P; and
          El is selected from formulas (e-i) to (e-ix).
  If the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-III), a preferred moiety - A 5 - Hyp4 is a
5 moiety of the formula
                         H        1
                       'N        E
          wherein
          the dashed line indicates attachment to Pl; and
          El is selected from formulas (e-i) to (e-ix).
0
  More preferably, the backbone reagent has a structure of formula (a-I) and B is has a structure
  of formula (a-xiv).
  Even more preferably, the backbone reagent has the structure of formula (a-I), B has the
5 structure of formula (a-xiv), x1 and x2 are 0, and A' is -0-.
  Even more preferably, the backbone reagent has the structure of formula (a-I), B has the
  structure of formula (a-xiv), A' is -0-, and P has a structure of formula (c-i).
0 Even more preferably, the backbone reagent is formula (a-I), B is of formula (a-xiv), x1 and
  x2 are 0, A' is -0-, P is of formula (c-i), A 2 is -NH-(C=0)- and Hyp is of formula (e-iii).
  Most preferably, the backbone reagent has the following formula:

       WO 2014/056915                             41                           PCT/EP2013/070949
                                         H NH                   NH 2
                                    HN                    N                   NH 2
                                          HN                    NH 2
                                                        0                    NH 2
                                                                N N
                                  H                                    N
                                                                       H      N
                                                     H SN                                     2
                                   0                                       0
                                                             1 NH 2
                                                            0
                                                                                                  4
             wherein
             n       ranges from 10 to 40, preferably from 10 to 30, more preferably from 10 to 20.
 5
   Equally preferably, n ranges from 20 to 30 kDa and most preferably n is 28.
   SP is a spacer moiety selected from the group comprising C1 -6 alkyl, C2 -6 alkenyl and C2 -6
   alkynyl, preferably SP is -CH 2 -, -CH 2 -CH 2-, -CH(CH 3)-, -CH 2 -CH 2 -CH 2 -, -CH(C 2 H5 )-,
 0 -C(CH 3 ) 2 -, -CH=CH- or -CH=CH-, most preferably SP is -CH 2 -, -CH 2-CH 2- or -CH=CH-.
   The at least one crosslinker reagent comprises at least two carbonyloxy groups (-(C=0)-O- or
   -O-(C=O)-), which are biodegradable linkages. These biodegradable linkages are necessary to
   render the hydrogel biodegradable. Additionally, the at least one crosslinker reagent
15 comprises at least two activated functional end groups which during the polymerization of
   step (b) react with the amines of the at least one backbone reagent.
   The crosslinker reagent has a molecular weight ranging from 6 to 40 kDa, more preferably
   ranging from 6 to 30 kDa, even more preferably ranging from 6 to 20 kDa, even more
20 preferably ranging from 6 to 15 kDa and most preferably ranging from 6 to 10 kDa.
   In an equally preferred embodiment the crosslinker reagent has a molecular weight ranging
   from 0.5 kDa to 15 kDa, preferably from 1 kDa to 10 kDa and most preferably from 2 to 5
   kDa.
25
   The crosslinker reagent comprises at least two activated functional end groups selected from
   the group comprising activated ester groups, activated carbamate groups, activated carbonate

       WO 2014/056915                                       42                                      PCT/EP2013/070949
   groups and activated thiocarbonate groups, which during polymerization react with the amine
   groups of the backbone reagents, forming amide bonds.
   In one preferred embodiment, the crosslinker reagent is a compound of formula (V-I):
                                                     0              0
            YYD    12           D_                   OD~      2     O                     342                            Y
     Y        D                 D                        O         OD                                   a      D         Y 2
                                                        0322     0                              -a4 4a           r8
                0RRR                         R                          RR                    RR
                                          -       - r4                          r5            -          r7          0
                      0-r2
 5                                       s1                                           -                    -s2
   (V-I),
          wherein
           each D', D 2 , D3 and D4 are identical or different and each is independently of the
                                 others selected from the group comprising -0-, -NR                               -,   -S-  and
 o                               -CR6Ra;
           each R1 , R    a, R2, R2a, R1, R      a, R4, R4a, R6 and R6 a are identical or different and each is
                                 independently of the others selected from the group comprising -H,
                                 -OR7, -NR7 R7a, -SR 7 and C 1-6 alkyl; optionally, each of the pair(s)
                                 R1 /R 2, R3 /R 4 , Ria/R 2 a, and R 3 a/R4 a may independently form a
 5                               chemical bond and/or each of the pairs Ri/Ria, R 2 /R 2 a, R 3 /R 3 a,
                                 R 4 /R 4
                                          a, R 6/R 6 a, R1 /R 2, R 3/R 4 , Ria/R 2 a,   and R 3 a/R  4
                                                                                                       a  are independently
                                 of each other joined together with the atom to which they are
                                 attached to form a C3 _8 cycloalkyl or to form a ring A or are joined
                                 together with the atom to which they are attached to form a 4- to 7
 0                               membered heterocyclyl or 8- to 11-membered heterobicyclyl or
                                 adamantyl;
                  5
           each R                is independently selected from -H and C1 -6 alkyl; optionally, each of
                                 the pair(s) R 1/R , R 2/R , R3 /R , R 4/R and R /R 6 may independently
                                 form a chemical bond and/or are joined together with the atom to
25                               which they are attached to form a 4- to 7-membered heterocyclyl or
                                 8- to 11 -membered heterobicyclyl;
           each R7 , R 7 a       is independently selected from H and C 1-6 alkyl;
          A                      is selected from the group consisting of indenyl, indanyl and
                                 tetralinyl;
30         P2
                                 is
                                                          0
          m                      ranges from 120 to 920 or from 10 to 340, preferably from 120 to
                                 460 or from 20 to 220 and more preferably from 120 to 230 or from
                                 45 to 110;

       WO 2014/056915                                          43                                   PCT/EP2013/070949
           rl, r2, r7, r8 are independently 0 or 1;
           r3, r6                  are independently 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4;
           r4, r5                  are independently 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9 or 10;
           s1, s2                  are independently 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6;
             1    2
 5         Y ,Y                    are identical or different and each is independently of the other
                                   selected from formulas (f-i) to (f-vi):
                                                   -_I_                                              NO2
                                                     O                                     O
                                 N'
                                             (f-i)                         NO 2 (f-ii),                          NO 2 (fjj
                                 Fb                              F
                                                      0                      F
                                                                                            or           IXH
                                  (f-iv)                                     F              or                X
                                                      F
                                                                 F
 0                                wherein
                                  the dashed lines indicate attachment to the rest of the molecule,
                                  b         is 1, 2, 3 or 4
                                  XH        is Cl, Br, I, or F.
 5 Preferably, the crosslinker reagent is a compound of formula (V-II):
                                                       0                 0
                      12                                         2                         3                     4        2
     Y        D                  DOD                                                                           D        Y
                                                            0322     0           3a4                 4a            r8
                 0RRR                           R                           R R                RR
                            0 r2                    - r4                           r5                    r7           0
                                        -is1                                                              - s2
   (V-II),
           wherein
             1     2     34
           D , D , D3 and D4 are identical or different and each is independently of the others
20                                 selected from the group comprising 0, NR 5 , S and CR Rsa
             1     la     2   25a3                 4      4
           R , R , R2, R2, R3, R3a, R4, R4a , R5 and Rsa are identical or different and each is
                                   independently of the others selected from the group comprising H
                                   and C1-6 alkyl; optionally, one or more of the pair(s) Ri/Ria, R2/R2 a,
                                   R 3 /R 3 a, R 4 /R 4 a,  R 1/R 2 , R 3/R 4, Ria/R 2 a, and R 3 a/R  4
                                                                                                         a  form a chemical
25                                bond or are joined together with the atom to which they are attached

        WO 2014/056915                                44                         PCT/EP2013/070949
                               to form a C3 _8 cycloalkyl or to form a ring A or are joined together
                               with the atom to which they are attached to form a 4- to 7-membered
                                heterocyclyl or 8- to 11 -membered heterobicyclyl or adamantyl;
           A                    is selected from the group consisting of phenyl, naphthyl, indenyl,
 5                              indanyl and tetralinyl;
            P2                  is
                                                     0
           m                   ranges from 120 to 920 or from 10 to 340, preferably from 120 to
                                460 or from 20 to 220 and more preferably from 120 to 230 or from
 0                              45 to 110;
           rl, r2, r7, r8 are independently 0 or 1;
           r3, r6               are independently 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4;
           r4, r5               are independently 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9 or 10;
            s1, s2              are independently 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6;
              1    2
 5         Y ,Y                 are identical or different and each is independently of the other
                                selected from formulas (f-i) to (f-vi):
                                              0                                  NO 2
                                                              NO 2 (f-ii                 NO 2 (fji
                              Fb                        F
                                                 O             F
             ':/
                                                                         or       -    XH
                               (f-iv)                          F         or            X
                                               F
                                                        F
20                             wherein
                               the dashed lines indicate attachment to the rest of the molecule,
                               b       is 1, 2, 3 or 4
                               XH      is Cl, Br, I, or F.
25 It is understood that the moieties

       WO 2014/056915                                  45                                 PCT/EP2013/070949
       1                              y
     YY
          o           and        o
   represent the at least two activated functional end groups.
   Preferably, Y' and Y 2 of formula (V-I) and (V-II) have a structure of formula (f-i), (f-ii) or (f
 5 v). More preferably, Y' and Y2 have a structure of formula (f-i) or (f-ii) and most preferably,
   YI and Y 2 have a structure of formula (f-i).
   Preferably, both moieties Y' and Y 2 of formula (V-I) and (V-II) have the same structure.
   More preferably, both moieties Y' and Y 2 have the structure of formula (f-i).
 0
   Preferably, rl of formula (V-I) and (V-II) is 0.
   Preferably, rl and sl of formula (V-I) and (V-II) are both 0.
 5 Preferably, one or more of the pair(s) Ri/Ria, R 2 /R 2 a, R3 /R3 a, R 4 /R 4 a, R1/R 2, R3 /R 4 , Ria/R 2 a,
   and R 3 a/R 4
                 a of formula (V-I) and (V-II) form a chemical bond or are joined together with the
   atom to which they are attached to form a C3 _8 cycloalkyl or form a ring A.
   Preferably, one or more of the pair(s) R 1/R 2 , Ria/R 2 a, R 3 /R 4 , R 3 a/R 4
                                                                                    a of formula (V-I) and (V
 0 II) are joined together with the atom to which they are attached to form a 4- to 7-membered
   heterocyclyl or 8- to 11 -membered heterobicyclyl.
   Preferably, the crosslinker reagent of formula (V-I) and (V-II) is symmetric, i.e. the moiety
        1             1    -              2 -r             -
      Y            Ds                  -D
                        rl                  -r3      2
                                                       R2 a
                             -     -r2                     -r4
25
   has the same structure as the moiety
                               D                     D         Y
                                        r6                r8
               R3 3a                 RR 4
                        r5                    r7
                           -                    - s2

      WO 2014/056915                           46                          PCT/EP2013/070949
  In one preferred embodiment s1, s2, rI and r8 of formula (V-I) and (V-IT) are 0.
  In another preferred embodiment sI, s2, rI and r8 of formula (V-I) and (V-II) are 0 and r4 of
  formula (V-I) and (V-II) and r5 are 1.
5
  Preferred crosslinker reagents are of formula (V-1) to (V-54):
         0       0                                0      0
            0      0             0                                 (V- 1),
          o      o     +-                         oiM-    o--
                                                          2Y
         o       o                                0      0
            0      0                      0         0              (V-2),
                            2         m                      2
         o       o                                0      0
                                                                 (V-3)
         00           3              m3   0         0
            0      0                      0         0             (V-5)
         o       o                                0      0
                                                                  (V-6)
         o       o                                0      0
                                              0
    Y1 '          60+0
                      00
                                                                 (V-6)
         0       0                                0      0
                    o1              o1o1                         (V-7)
         0       0                                0      0
    Y1             80O                        0Y
                                                                 (V-8)

  WO 2014/056915           47                      PCT/EP2013/070949
    0       0                 0 0
                                     Y
Y1            9 0OO
                                           (V-9),
    0       0                 0 0
                                10        (
    0       0                 0 0
                                           (V-11)
    0       0                 0 0
                                            (V-12)
    0       0                 0 0
Y1              0l-- 01- 0        -- Y2
                                          (V-13)
    0       0                 0 0
                                           (V-14)
    o       0                 0 0
Y               0O
                                        (V-15),
    0       00                  0
                 0   0    0          Y2
Y
                                         (V-16)

   WO 2014/056915               48                        PCT/EP2013/070949
     0       0                     0     0
                                               (V-17)
        0      0            0        0
                                       r         (V_18)
        0      0            0        0
                                                 (V-19)
     o       0                     0     0
  Y1                          0
                                                 (V-20)
        0      0        0
                                                 (V-21)
5
     o       0                     0     0
                          m
                                               (V-22)
     0             0                      0             0
                 2   0m                             2
                                            ew                   (V-23)

    WO 2014/056915           49           PCT/EP2013/070949
      0              0              0   0
    1                     02
                                                 (V-24)
      o              0              0   0
    1                     02
                                                 (V-25)
      o              0              0   0
                                                 (V-26)
      o              0              0   0
    1                     02
                                                 (V-27)
      o              0              0   0
    1                     02
                                      w          (V-28)
5
      o              0              0   0
    1                     02
                                                 (V-29)
      o              0              0   0
  y               3-   03    m  02
                                O-"
                                                 (V-30)
      0              0              0   0
                                                 (V-31)

  WO 2014/056915               50                     PCT/EP2013/070949
    0               0                     0                  0
                                                                 (V-32)
    0               0                     0                   0
                0     0   0   O-      O-'         20-     2      Y
              2   2
                                                                (V-33)
    0               0                     0                   0
                                                                (V-34)
    0               0                     0                   0
     1          w     0G                                         Y2
                                                                 (V-35)
        00                      0         0
                            Y     O(V-36)
5         trans                             trans
        00                      0         0
                                                         (V-37)
          trans                            trans
                         O n
                                                         V39)
            cis                               cis

    WO 2014/056915                   51                            PCT/EP2013/070949
      0                 0                   0                    0
  Y                         0    01     0-40                               V
              trans                               trans
      o                Y0   O    O(V-4)     0                    0
                                                                          (V-41)
               cis                                 cis
                00
                                                                           (V-42)
               trans                                 trans
                00
                                                                                (V-43)
                 cis                                  cis
      o0                          0                                 0
  Y                           0      OY
                                                                         (V-44)
5              trans                                  trans
      o                   0                   0                     0
    1                             011          11
  Y                           0'                                        Y
                                                                               (V-45)
                 cis                                    cis
      0Y                              0                  0
                                                                                  (V-46)
                 trans                                     trans

  WO 2014/056915           52                   PCT/EP2013/070949
    0                 0           0                  0
                                YC     OO(V-47)
               cis                      cis
    o                   0           0                  0
                              O                           V-48)
              trans                        trans
    o                   0           0                  0
                           0
                cis                         cis
    o                   0            0                   0
                               0V50
                            O    O                             1
5              trans                         trans
    o                    0           0                   0
                 cis                          cis
                trans                          trans

     WO 2014/056915                          53                           PCT/EP2013/070949
                                                                                     (V-53
                    cis                                                   cis
        o                  0                                0                 0
                               0           0,
                                                                                (V-54)
       wherein
       each crosslinker reagent may be in the form of its racemic mixture, where applicable;
5                         and
                   2
       m, Y' and Y are defined as above.
  Even more preferred crosslinker reagents are of formula (Va-1) to (Va-54):
        0      0                                0      0
           O+--O1                             O    ,   O     2
                                                                  (Va-1)
        0      0                                0      0
0                                                                 (Va-2)
        0      0                                0      0
        O      O0
    Y1          302
                                                                 (Va-3)
        o      o                                0      0
    Y1          402
   Y               O-
                   04--        O+     --    O              Y
                                                                  (Va-4)
        0      0                                0      0
                               O            O              Y2
   Y1
                                                                 (Va-5)

    WO 2014/056915          54                   PCT/EP2013/070949
      0       0                0   0
                  0 0--
                    O,_4   02
                                        (Va-6)
      o       o                0   0
         0      0        0       0
  Y           7     OO                Y
                                         (Va-7)
      o       o                0   0
         0      0        0       0
                                        (Va-8)
      o       o                0   0
     10         0        0       0
  Y           9            O          Y
                                         (Va-9)
      o       0                0   0
5               0                  10   (Va-10)
         0      0        0       0
                                        (Va-11)
  Y             0            0        Y
                                         (Va-12)
      0Y0                0       0
                                        (Va-13)
      0       0                0   0
                                        (Va-14)

 WO 2014/056915            55                     PCT/EP2013/070949
    0      0                  0 0
    0Y0                0 0
                                        (Va-1)
    o      0                  0 0
                     0      0   0
              yi                         (Va-1)
    o      0                  0 0
Y1             0     0
             yi                          (Va-1)
    o      0                  0 0
   1                 01         1     21
 1                       0        -Yz
              y 01
                                          (Va-18)
    o      0                  0 0
 1               l-- 01-          -y 2
                                          (Va-21)

  WO 2014/056915              56                     PCT/EP2013/070949
     0      0                    0   0
                                           (Va-22)
     o             0                  0            0
  1                       0                             2
                2    0m2
                                        ew                  (Va-23)
     o             0                  0            0
  1                       0                             2
    Y3               0m3
                                        ew                  (Va-24)
     o             0                  0            0
  1                       0                             2
    Y4               0m4
                                        ew                  (Va-25)
     o             0                  0            0
                2         0        0           2
                                                            (Va-26)
5
     0Y0                    0         0
                                                            (Va-27)
     0Y0                    0         0
                                                            (Va-28)
     0             0                  0            0
                  y   W 2               W      2       Y2(Va-29)

     WO 2014/056915                     57                           PCT/EP2013/070949
        0              0                            0             0
    Y1                      0       01          0   11
                      y     W 3                         W     3         Y2(Va-30)
        0              0                            0             0
   Y1                       0       0  m        0
                      w                                                   (Va-3 1)
       0                 0                 0                      0
                                                                                     (Va-32)
       0                       o                         0                         0
                  0                                        0        0
                2          2r2                                         2
                                                                                      (Va-33)
 5
       0                0                  0                    0
                    3     r                  3                         3
                                                                                      (Va-34)
                  00              0                   0                   0
                4         4rm                                   4           4
                                                                                     (Va- 35)
        0           0                             0          0
        ~1               0      0             0
                                                                         (Va-36)
        0           0                             0          01
                                                                         (Va-37)
10

  WO 2014/056915               58                     PCT/EP2013/070949
      0          0                  0          0
    1            0"             0              0'
                                                    Y
Y
                                                          (Va-3 )
      o           0                  0            0
      1Y                     0             0          1
                 SI                                       Y2(Va-    )
         o0           100
                  yi
                                                               (Va-4 )
      o             0 10                              01
  1                     02
                                     II'                          (Va-4 )
          00                      0          0
                           c
                                                                   (Va-4)
      o              0                   0              0
         y0
                                                                     (Va-43)

   WO 2014/056915                 59               PCT/EP2013/070949
       0          0                         0          01
    1                            0+-
                                  j-   oY
                                                Y O(               V a -4 6 )
     ~10                   0              0            0
  Y       -           000(Va-47)
       o            0                         0           0
  Y,                    0+        0
                                                            (Va-48)
5
       o            0                         0            0
       0j             0              0           0
                                                               (Va-50)
       0            0
                                              0             0
                                                              (Va-5 1)

        WO 2014/056915                          60                           PCT/EP2013/070949
           0                     0                                 0                       0
                                                   0           O'k                              2
      y)
                                                                                            (Va-52)
      Y                                           O-          O2
                                                                                           (Va-53)
           o                  0                                0                  0
                                                                                       (Va-54)
          wherein
 5        each crosslinker reagent may be in the form of its racemic mixture, where applicable;
                             and
                      2
          m, Y' and Y are defined as above.
   It was surprisingly found that the use of crosslinker reagents with branches, i.e. residues other
 0 than H, at the alpha carbon of the carbonyloxy group lead to the formation of hydrogels which
   are more resistant against enzymatic degradation, such as degradation through esterases.
   Similarly, it was surprisingly found that the fewer atoms there are between the (C=0) of a
   carbonyloxy group and the (C=0) of the adjacent activated ester, activated carbamate,
15 activated carbonate or activated thiocarbamate, the more resistant against degradation the
   resulting hydrogels are, such as more resistant against degradation through esterases.
   Accordingly, crosslinker reagents V-11 to V-53, V-1 and V-2 are preferred crosslinker
   reagents.
20
   In another embodiment, crosslinker reagents V-1, V-2, V-5, V-6, V-7, V-8, V-9, V-10, V-11,
   V-12, V-13, V-14, V-15, V-16, V-17, V-18, V-19, V-20, V-21, V-22, V-23, V-24, V-25, V
   26, V-27, V-28, V-29, V-30, V-31, V-32, V-33, V-34, V-35, V-36, V-37, V-38, V-39, V-40,
   V-41, V-42, V-43, V-44, V-45, V-46, V-47, V-48, V-49, V-50, V-5 1, V-52, V-53 an V-54 are
25 preferred crosslinker reagents. More preferably, the at least one crosslinker reagent is of

       WO 2014/056915                            61                           PCT/EP2013/070949
   formula V-5, V-6, V-7, V-8, V-9, V-10, V-14, V-22, V-23, V-43, V-44, V-45 or V-46, and
   most preferably, the at least one crosslinker reagent is of formula V-5, V-6, V-9 or V-14.
   In another embodiment, crosslinker reagents Va-i, Va-2, Va-5, Va-6, Va-7, Va-8, Va-9, Va
 5 10, Va-11, Va-12, Va-13, Va-14, Va-15, Va-16, Va-17, Va-18, Va-19, Va-20, Va-21, Va-22,
   Va-23, Va-24, Va-25, Va-26, Va-27, Va-28, Va-29, Va-30, Va-31, Va-32, Va-33, Va-34, Va
   35, Va-36, Va-37, Va-38, Va-39, Va-40, Va-41, Va-42, Va-43, Va-44, Va-45, Va-46, Va-47,
   Va-48, Va-49, Va-50, Va-51, Va-52, Va-53 an Va-54 are even more preferred crosslinker
   reagents. More preferably, the at least one crosslinker reagent is of formula Va-5, Va-6, Va-7,
 0 Va-8, Va-9, Va-10, Va-14, Va-22, Va-23, Va-43, Va-44, Va-45 or Va-46, and most
   preferably, the at least one crosslinker reagent is of formula Va-5, Va-6, Va-9 or Va-14.
   The preferred embodiments of the compound of formula (V-I) and (V-II) as mentioned above
   apply accordingly to the preferred compounds of formulas (V-1) to (V-53).
 5
   The hydrogel contains from 0.01 to I mmol/g primary amine groups (-NH 2), more preferably,
   from 0.02 to 0.5 mmol/g primary amine groups and most preferably from 0.05 to 0.3 mmol/g
   primary amine groups. The term "X mmol/g primary amine groups" means that I g of dry
 0 hydrogel comprises X mmol primary amine groups. Measurement of the amine content of the
   hydrogel may be carried out according to Gude et al. (Letters in Peptide Science, 2002, 9(4):
   203-206, which is incorpated by reference in its entirety).
   Preferably, the term "dry" as used herein means having a residual water content of a
 5 maximum of 10%, preferably less than 5% and more preferably less than 2% (determined
   according to Karl Fischer). The preferred method of drying is lyophilization.
   In one embodiment the hydrogel carrier of the polymeric prodrug is further modified before a
   reversible prodrug linker-biologically active moiety is conjugated to the hydrogel.
30
   Preferably, the hydrogel is modified by a process comprising the steps of
           (A)    providing a hydrogel having groups AO, wherein groups Axo represent the
                  same or different, preferably same, functional groups;
35
           (B)    optionally covalently conjugating a spacer reagent of formula (VI)
                         Axl-SP 2 -Ax2 (VI),

     WO 2014/056915                                  62                                PCT/EP2013/070949
                        wherein
                         SP2     is C1 _5 0 alkyl, C 2 -5 o alkenyl or C 2 -5 o alkynyl, which C1 _5 0 alkyl,
                                 C2 -50 alkenyl and C2 -50 alkynyl is optionally interrupted by one or
                                 more group(s) selected from the group consisting of -NH-,
5                                -N(C 1 _4 alkyl)-, -0-, -S, -C(O)-, -C(O)NH, -C(O)N(C 1 _4 alkyl)-,
                                 -O-C(O)-, -S(O)-, -S(O) 2 -, 4- to 7-membered heterocyclyl, phenyl
                                 and naphthyl;
                        Axl      is a functional group for reaction with AO of the hydrogel; and
                        Ax2      is a functional group;
0
                  to AO of the hydrogel from step (A); and
         (C)      reacting the hydrogel of step (A) or step (B) with a reagent of formula (VII)
5                         Ax3 -Z (VII),
                          wherein
                          A0 is a functional group; and
                          Z is an inert moiety having a molecular weight ranging from 10 Da to
                          1000 kDa;
0
                                                                                   3
                  such that at most 99 mol-% of A* or Ax2 react with A               .
  Preferably, Axo of step (A) is selected from the group consisting of maleimide, amine (-NH 2
  or -NH-), hydroxyl (-OH), thiol (-SH), carboxyl (-COOH) and activated carboxyl (-COY',
5 wherein Y 1 is selected from formulas (f-i) to (f-vi):
                                                                                         NO 2
                                      O                                         0
                                                  (f-i)                NO 2 (f-ii),             NO 2 (f-i
                                               Fb                F
                               0                        O               F
                                                                                     and       X
                                                (f-iv),
                                                        F*               F (f-v)             I    (f-vi)
                                                                 F
                          wherein

       WO 2014/056915                                  63                        PCT/EP2013/070949
                           the dashed lines indicate attachment to the rest of the molecule,
                           b          is 1, 2, 3 or 4;
                           XH         is Cl, Br, I, or F).
 5 More preferably, AO of step (A) is an amine or maleimide.
   It is understood that the functional groups AO of step (A) correspond to the amines of the at
   least one backbone reagent, if the hydrogel carrier of the polymer prodrug is obtained by the
   process described above.
 0
   In a preferred embodiment AO of step (A) is an amine and A l of step (B) is CISO 2 -,
   R1(C=O)-, I-, Br-, Cl-, SCN-, CN-, O=C=N-, Yl-(C=O)-, Yl-(C=O)-NH-, or Yl-(C=0)-O-,
           wherein
           R     is H, C 1-6 alkyl, C2 -6 alkenyl, C2 -6 alkynyl, C3 _8 cycloalkyl, 4- to 7-membered
 5               heterocyclyl, 8- to 11-membered heterobicyclyl, phenyl, naphthyl, indenyl,
                 indanyl, or tetralinyl; and
           Y1    is selected from formulas (f-i) to (f-vi):
                                                                                 NO 2
                                                O                         O
                             N'
                                         (f-9 ,             NO 2 (f-ii),                  NO 2 (f_ ,
                             Fb                          F
                                                0            F
                                                                          and2
                              (f-iv),                         F (f
                                                F
                                                         F
20
                              wherein
                              the dashed lines indicate attachment to the rest of the molecule,
                              b         is 1, 2, 3 or 4,
                              XH is Cl, Br, I, or F.
25
   In another preferred embodiment AXO of step (A) is a hydroxyl group (-OH) and A*l of step
   (B) is O=C=N-, I-, Br-, SCN-, or Yl-(C=O)-NH-,
          wherein Y' is selected from formulas (f-i) to (f-vi):

       WO 2014/056915                                 64                             PCT/EP2013/070949
                                                                                     NO2
                            N'>0
                                      (f-i),                    NO 2 (f-ii),                 NO 2 (f_  ,
                            Fb                          F
                                               0                 F
                                                                              and          XH
                             (f-iv)                              F (f-v)                       (f-vi)
                                               F
                                                        F
                             wherein
                             the dashed lines indicate attachment to the rest of the molecule,
 5                           b       is 1, 2, 3 or 4,
                             XH      is Cl, Br, I, or F.
   In another preferred embodiment AO of step (A) is a carboxylic acid (-(C=0)OH) and AXl of
   step (B) is a primary amine or secondary amine.
 0
   In another preferred embodiment AO of step (A) is a maleimide and AXl of step (B) is a thiol.
   More preferably, AO of step (A) is an amine and Axl                       of step (B) is Yl-(C=0)-,
   Yl-(C=0)-NH-, or Yl-(C=0)-O- and most preferably AXO of step (A) is an amine and A l of
 5 step (B) is Yl-(C=0)-.
   Axl of step (B) may optionally be present in protected form.
   Suitable activating reagents to obtain the activated carboxylic acid are for example N,N'
20 dicyclohexyl-carbodiimide        (DCC),        1-ethyl-3-carbodiimide      (EDC),    benzotriazol-1-yl
   oxytripyrrolidinophosphonium                           hexafluorophosphate                     (PyBOP),
   bromotripyrrolidinophosphonium             hexafluorophosphate       (PyBrOP),     1-cyano-2-ethoxy-2
   oxoethylidenaminooxy)dimethylamino-morpholino-carbenium                           hexafluorophosphate
   (COMU), 1-hydroxybenzotriazole (HOBT), 1-hydroxy-7-azabenzotriazole (HOAT), 0-(6
25 chlorobenzotriazol-1-yl)-NN,N',N'-tetramethyluronium            hexafluorophosphate (HCTU), 1-H
   benzotriazolium       (HBTU),             (0-(7-azabenzotriazol-1-yl)-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium
   hexafluorophosphate     (HATU),         and     O-(benzotriazol-1-yl)-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium
   tetrafluoroborate (TBTU). These reagents are commercially available and well-known to the
   skilled person.

       WO 2014/056915                                 65                           PCT/EP2013/070949
   Preferably,  A
                    2
                       of step (B) is selected from the group consisting of -maleimide, -SH, -NH2 ,
   -SeH, -N 3 , -C-CH, -CR I=CRa R,            -OH, -(CH=X)-Rl, -(C=O)-S-Rl, -(C=O)-H, -NH-NH 2,
   -O-NH2, -Ar-X , -Ar-Sn(R')(R ia)(R I ), -Ar-B(OH)(OH), Br, I, Yl-(C=0)-, Yl-(C=0)-NH-,
   Y1 -(C=O)-O-,
                0                           0                      0                    0
                            O                      _
                                                              H
 5
                                      F
                               F
                                                                    0
                                                                                 SH
                                                                        NH 2
                         0
                         0        10                     Ra
                      O2 N                        O>     Ria
                                           , and               ; with optional protecting groups;
         wherein
 0       dashed lines indicate attachment to SP 2 ;
         X              is 0, S, or NH,
         X              is -OH, -NRlRla, -SH, or -SeH,
         XH             is Cl, Br, I or F;
         Ar             is phenyl, naphthyl, indenyl, indanyl, or tetralinyl;
15       R, R     , Ri   are independently of each other H, C1-6 alkyl, C2 -6 alkenyl, C2 -6 alkynyl, C3 _8
                        cycloalkyl, 4- to 7-membered heterocyclyl, 8- to 11-membered
                        heterobicyclyl, phenyl, naphthyl, indenyl, indanyl, or tetralinyl; and
         Yi             is selected from formulas (f-i) to (f-vi):
                                                                                   NO 2
                               N(2                                        ,
                                        (f-il                 NO 2 f-iNO                        2 (-i~

       WO 2014/056915                               66                          PCT/EP2013/070949
                             Fb                       F
                                             0              F
                                                            | Fn        and2
                          ~ (f-iv),
                               fFv)                          F (f-V)                      (f-vi)
                                             F
                                                      F
                              wherein
                              the dashed lines indicate attachment to the rest of the molecule,
                              b      is 1, 2, 3 or 4,
 5                            XH is Cl, Br, I, or F.
   More preferably, Ax2 of step (B) is -NH 2 , maleimide or thiol and most preferably Ax2 of step
   (B) is maleimide. Equally preferably, Ax2 of step (B) is thiol.
 0 Ax2 of step (B) may optionally be present in protected form.
   If the hydrogel of step (A) is covalently conjugated to a spacer moiety, the resulting hydrogel
   spacer moiety conjugate is of formula (VIII):
 5                4 Ayl- SP 2-Ax 2 (VIII),
                  wherein
                  the dashed line indicates attachment to the hydrogel of step (A);
                  Ay' is the linkage formed between AxO and A* ; and
30                SP 2 and  Ax
                               2
                                 are used as in formula (VI).
   Preferably, A' of formula (VIII) is a stable linkage.
   Preferably, A' of formula (VIII) is selected from the group consisting of
                    0                     0                       0
                N           ,        N         N       and     N      O
                H                    H         H               H
25
           wherein
           dashed lines marked with an asterisk indicate attachment to the hydrogel; and
           unmarked dashed lines indicate attachment to SP2.

       WO 2014/056915                             67                              PCT/EP2013/070949
   Suitable reaction conditions are described in the Examples sections and are known to the
   person skilled in the art.
   Process step (B) may be carried out in the presence of a base. Suitable bases include cus
 5 tomary inorganic or organic bases. These preferably include alkaline earth metal or alkali
   metal hydrides, hydroxides, amides, alkoxides, acetates, carbonates or bicarbonates such as,
   for example, sodium hydride, sodium amide, sodium methoxide, sodium ethoxide, potassium
   tert-butoxide, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, ammonium hydroxide, sodium
   acetate, potassium acetate, calcium acetate, ammonium acetate, sodium carbonate, potassium
 0 carbonate, potassium bicarbonate, sodium bicarbonate or ammonium carbonate, and tertiary
   amines such as trimethylamine, triethylamine, tributylamine, NN-dimethylaniline, NN
   dimethylbenzylamine,        pyridine,      N-methylpiperidine,       N-methylmorpho line,      N,N
   dimethylaminopyridine, diazabicyclooctane         (DABCO),      diazabicyclononene (DBN),      NN
   diisopropylethylamine (DIPEA), diazabicycloundecene (DBU) or collidine.
 5
   Process step (B) may be carried out in the presence of a solvent. Suitable solvents for carrying
   out the process step (B) of the invention include organic solvents. These preferably include
   water and aliphatic, alicyclic or aromatic hydrocarbons such as, for example, petroleum ether,
   hexane, heptane, cyclohexane, methylcyclohexane, benzene, toluene, xylene or decalin;
 0 halogenated    hydrocarbons      such   as,   for    example,    chlorobenzene,   dichlorobenzene,
   dichloromethane,     chloroform, carbon tetrachloride,         dichloroethane   or trichloroethane;
   alcohols such as methanol, ethanol, n- or i-propanol, n-, i-, sec- or tert-butanol, ethanediol,
   propane-1,2-diol, ethoxyethanol, methoxyethanol, diethylene glycol monomethyl ether,
   dimethylether,      diethylene     glycol;    acetonitrile,     N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone      (NMP),
 5 dimethylformamide        (DMF),     dimethyl    sulfoxide     (DMSO),      N,N-dimethylacetamide,
   nitromethane,      nitrobenzene,     hexamethylphosphoramide           (HMPT),      1,3-dimethyl-2
   imidazolidinone (DMI), 1,3-dimethyl-3,4,5,6-tetrahydro-2(1H)-pyrimidinone (DMPU), ethyl
   acetate, acetone, butanone; ethers such as diethyl ether, diisopropyl ether, methyl t-butyl
   ether,   methyl    t-amyl    ether,   dioxane,     tetrahydrofuran,     1,2-dimethoxyethane,    1,2
30 diethoxyethane or anisole; or mixtures thereof Preferably, the solvent is selected from the
   group consisting of water, acetonitrile and N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone.
                  3
   Preferably,  AX  of step (C) is selected from the group consisting of -SH, -NH 2, -SeH,
   maleimide, -C-CH, -N 3 , -CR I=CRia R", -(C=X)-Rl, -OH, -(C=O)-S-Rl, -NH-NH 2 , -0-NH 2,
35 -Ar-Sn(R)(R ia)(Rl"), -Ar-B(OH)(OH), -Ar-X0,

     WO 2014/056915                                  68                         PCT/EP2013/070949
         F
   F
                                                                                        0
                                                                     1-                 S -N
                                                                                             H
                       --                                   O OOORia                    NO 2
                               Oa
                   00                           00
   H-S               ,    ,      Y,       OO                                          N        Y
           NH   2
       wherein
 5     dashed lines indicate attachment to Z;
       X            is 0, S, or NH,
       X            is -OH, -NRlRla, -SH, or -SeH;
       R, R  a,  R     are independently of each other H, C1-6 alkyl, C2 -6 alkenyl, C2 -6 alkynyl,
                    C3 _8 cycloalkyl, 4- to 7-membered heterocyclyl, 8- to 11-membered
 0                  heterobicyclyl, phenyl, naphthyl, indenyl, indanyl, or tetralinyl; and
       Ar           is phenyl, naphthyl, indenyl, indanyl, or tetralinyl.
       Y1           is an activated carboxylic acid, activated carbonate or activated carbamate,
                    preferably Y' is selected from formulas (f-i) to (f-vi):
                                                                             NO 2
                                        (f-i)                  NO 2 (fii),           NO 2 (f-,
                                                 Fb             F
                                                          0                F
                                              S    (f-iv)              I     fv) and            (fvi
                                                          F
                                                                F
15
                            wherein
                            the dashed lines indicate attachment to the rest of the molecule,
                            b     is 1, 2, 3 or 4,
                            XH is Cl, Br, I, or F

       WO 2014/056915                              69                            PCT/EP2013/070949
         In a preferred embodiment, Y' is selected from formulas (f-i) to (f-vi):
                                                                              NO 2
                                       (f-i)                   NO 2 (f-ii),           NO 2 (f_ ,
                                                Fb               F
                                                        0                   F
                                             ~.  (f-iv)                 I     fv) and          (fvi
                                                        F
                                                                 F
                            wherein
 5                          the dashed lines, b and XH are used as above.
   More preferably,   A 3 of step (C) is-SH or -maleimide and most preferably A 3 of step (C) is
   -SH.
 0
   In another preferred embodiment    A 3  of step (C) is of formula (al)
                   PG' - S j (al),
 5                 wherein
                   the dashed line indicates attachment to Z of formula (VII);
                   PG0 is a sulfur-activating moiety; and
                   S      is sulfur;
20 Preferably, PG0 of formula (al) is selected from the group consisting of

      WO 2014/056915                              70                               PCT/EP2013/070949
                                                               R2
                        o              01
                                           0N            R 3N
                            .I
                   Ar-S-'-           R -St
                        II '               II
    Ar-Se               O                  O0
                                     \                  MeO                h
              0
                       (v),                 (vi), and                         (vii);
          wherein
 5        the dashed lines indicate attachment to the sulfur of formula (al);
          Ar              is an aromatic moiety which is optionally further substituted;
          R , R 2, R 3, R04 are independently of each other -H; C1 _50 alkyl; C2-50 alkenyl; or C2-so
                          alkynyl, wherein CI-50 alkyl; C2 -50 alkenyl; and C2 -50 alkynyl are
                          optionally substituted with one or more R3, which are the same or
 0                        different and wherein C 1 _5 o alkyl; C2 -5 o alkenyl; and C2 -5 0 alkynyl are
                          optionally interrupted by one or more groups selected from the group
                          consisting of -Q-, -C(O)O-; -0-; -C(O)-; -C(O)N(R 4)-; -S(O) 2N(R 4)-;
                          S(O)N(R 4)-; -S(0)2-; -S(O)-; -N(R 4)S(O) 2N(R4a)-; -S-; -N(R 4)-;
                          OC(O)R 4; -N(R 4)C(O)-; -N(R 4)S(O) 2-; -N(R 4)S(O)-; -N(R 4)C(O)O-;
 5                        N(R 4)C(O)N(R 4a)-; and -OC(O)N(R4R4a);
          Q               is selected from the group consisting of phenyl; naphthyl; indenyl;
                          indanyl; tetralinyl; C3 _10 cycloalkyl; 4- to 7-membered heterocyclyl; and
                          8- to 11- membered heterobicyclyl, wherein T is optionally substituted
                          with one or more R3, which are the same or different;
20        R3              is halogen; -CN; oxo (=0); -COOR5; -OR 5 ; -C(O)R 5 ; -C(O)N(R5Ra);
                          -S(O) 2N(R5Rsa);           -S(O)N(R5Ra);           -S(O) 2R5 ;        -S(O)R5;
                          -N(R 5)S(O) 2N(Rsa R );       -SR5;     -N(R R a);       -NO 2 ;    -OC(O)R 5 ;
                          -N(RS)C(O)Ra; -N(RS)S(O)2Ra; -N(RS)S(O)Ra;                  -N(R5)C(O)ORa;
                          -N(R5)C(O)N(Ra       R5); -OC(O)N(R5Ra); or C1 -6 alkyl, wherein C1 -6
25                        alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more halogen, which are the
                          same or different; and
                          R4, R4a , R5, R     a, R b are independently selected from the group
                          consisting of -H; or C1 -6 alkyl, wherein C1 -6 alkyl is optionally
                          substituted with one or more halogen, which are the same or different.
30
   Preferably, Rol R03 and R04 are independently of each other C1-6 alkyl.

      WO 2014/056915                               71                       PCT/EP2013/070949
   Preferably, R0 2 is selected from H and C 1 -6 alkyl.
   Preferably, Ar is selected from the group consisting of
 5
                                      N      ,        N
                                  NN'r
           N               N              N
                          N             I
          W     ,       W
                                     W
                                  W,                 W
                                             andW
   wherein
   dashed lines indicate attachment to the rest of PG0 of formula (al);
   W      is independently of each other 0, S, or N;
 0 W'     is N; and
   wherein Ar is optionally substituted with one or more substituent(s) independently selected
   from the group consisting of NO 2 , Cl and F.
   More preferably, PG0 of formula (al) is selected from the group consisting of
                                                            R2
                          O                 0N              N
                               .       01                R3
                     Ar-S-            R
15   Ar-S4-               0                 O                   O         (v)                and
              0
         R '(0vS             ,

     WO 2014/056915                               72                                PCT/EP2013/070949
            wherein
            the dashed lines indicate attachment to the sulfur of formula (al); and
            Ar, R , R  2,  ROI and R0 4 are used as above.
5 More preferably, PG0 of formula (al) is
              -SI'
          wherein
          the dashed line indicates attachment to the sulfur of formula (al).
0 A0 of step (C) may optionally be present in protected form.
                                                       3
  Preferred combinations of Ax2 of step (B) and      A    of step (C) are the following:
                          Ax 2                                                 Ax 3
  -maleimide                                           HS-, H 2N-, or HSe
  -SH, -NH 2, or -SeH                                  maleimide
  -NH 2                                                Yl-(C=O)-, Yl-(C=O)-NH-, or Yl-(C=0)-O
  -N 3                                                 HC--C-,
                                                                F
                                                         F
                                                                            or
  -C--CH,
                    -continued-

    WO 2014/056915    73                  PCT/EP2013/070949
       F                 N3
  F
                   or
-CRi=CRiaR
                         R1    aC=CR'-
                                       or
                         R R   aC=CR'
                                lbal
-(C=X)-R                             R
                          O RCR
         R
                         Rl-(C=X)
  O      Ri
                         H 2N- or
-OH

   WO 2014/056915                            74                         PCT/EP2013/070949
                                                            0
                                                            S-N-4
                                                            0
                                                            NO2
-NH 2 or
            0
                                                HO
       N
       H
            0
         O2 N
                                                               0
-(C=0)-S-R'                                       HS
                                                           NHHS
                                                           NH 2
      0
                    SH                          RI-S-(C=0)
               NSHH
          NH 2
-(C=0)-H                                        H 2N-NH- or H 2N-0
-NH-NH    2 or -0-NH 2                          H-(C=0)
-Ar-X                                           -Ar-Sn(Rl)(Rla)(R b) or -Ar-B(OH)(OH)
 (Rib)(Rla)(Rl)Sn-Ar- or                        X 0-Ar
-Ar-B(OH)(OH)
      wherein
      X            is 0, S, or NH;
      X0           is -OH, -NRlRia, -SH, or -SeH;

        WO 2014/056915                                  75                             PCT/EP2013/070949
           R, R      , R    are independently of each other selected from the group consisting of H,
                          C 1-6 alkyl, C2 -6 alkenyl, C2 -6 alkynyl, C3 _8 cycloalkyl, 4- to 7-membered
                          heterocyclyl, 8- to 11 -membered heterobicyclyl, phenyl, naphthyl, indenyl,
                          indanyl, and tetralinyl; and
 5         Ar             is phenyl, naphthyl, indenyl, indanyl, or tetralinyl.
   In another preferred embodiment Ax2 is -SH and               AX
                                                                  3
                                                                    is of formula (al), wherein PG0 is of
   formula (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi) or (viii). More preferably, PG0 of formula (al) is of formula
   (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) and even more preferably, PG0 of formula (al) is of formula (i). Most
 0 preferably, PG0 of formula (al) is of formula
             wherein
             the dashed line indicates attachment to the sulfur of formula (al).
 5 In one preferred embodiment, Ax2 of step (B) is an amine and              A
                                                                                3
                                                                                  of step (C) is Yl-(C=0)-,
                                                                      2
   Yl-(C=O)-NH-, or Yl-(C=O)-O- and most preferably Ax of step (B) is an amine and A 3 of
   step (C) is Yl-(C=O)-.
                                               2                                   3
   In another preferred embodiment           Ax  of step (B) is maleimide and A      of step (C) is -SH.
 0
   In one embodiment the optional step (B) is omitted, AO of step (A) is an amine and                  A 3 of
   step (C) is CISO 2 -,     R1 (C=O)-,  I-, Br-, Cl-, SCN-, CN-, O=C=N-, Yl-(C=0)-, Yl-(C=0)-NH-,
   or Yl-(C=0)-O-,
             wherein
25           R       is H, C 1-6 alkyl, C2 -6 alkenyl, C2 -6 alkynyl, C3 _8 cycloalkyl, 4- to 7-membered
                     heterocyclyl, 8- to 11 -membered heterobicyclyl, phenyl, naphthyl, indenyl,
                     indanyl, or tetralinyl; and
             Y1      is selected from formulas (f-i) to (f-vi):
                                                                                       NO 2
                                                 O                            O
                                 N'
                                          (f-i) ,                N O2 (f -i ,                   NO2 (f _ g

       WO 2014/056915                              76                          PCT/EP2013/070949
                           Fb                        F
                                            0              F
                                                                       and           X
                            (f-iv),                         FFn (f-V)                    (f-vi)
                         ~    fFv)
                                                      F
                             wherein
                             the dashed lines indicate attachment to the rest of the molecule,
                             b      is 1, 2, 3 or 4,
 5                           XH     is Cl, Br, I, or F.
   In another embodiment the optional step (B) is omitted, AO of step (A) is a hydroxyl group
   (-OH) and AX3 of step (C) is O=C=N-, I-, Br-, SCN-, or Yl-(C=O)-NH-,
         wherein Y' is selected from formulas (f-i) to (f-vi):
 0
                                                                               NO 2
                                            O                          O
                           N'
                                     (f-il,               NO 2 (f-ii),                 NO 2 (f_   ,
                           Fb                         F
                                            O              F
                            (f-v),F                            (f-V)                     (f-vi)
                                            F
                                                     F
                             wherein
                             the dashed lines indicate attachment to the rest of the molecule,
15                           b      is 1, 2, 3 or 4,
                             XH     is Cl, Br, I, or F.
   In another embodiment the optional step (B) is omitted, AO of step (A) is a carboxylic acid
                       3
   (-(C=0)OH) and    AX  of step (C) is a primary amine or secondary amine.
20
                                                                                                3
   In another embodiment the optional step (B) is omitted, AO of step (A) is an amine and A         of
   step (C) is Yl-(C=O)-, Yl-(C=O)-NH-, or Yl-(C=O)-O-.

      WO 2014/056915                             77                               PCT/EP2013/070949
   In another embodiment the optional step (B) is omitted, Ao of step (A) is a maleimide and
   A0 of step (C) is thiol.
   In a preferred embodiment the optional step (B) is omitted, Ao of step (A) is an amine and
 5 A0 of step (C) is Yl-(C=0)-.
   In another preferred embodiment the optional step (B) is omitted, Ao is -SH and A              3 is of
   formula (al), wherein PG0 is of formula (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi) or (viii). More preferably,
   PG0 of formula (al) is of formula (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) and even more preferably, PG0 of
 0 formula (al) is of formula (i). Most preferably, PG0 of formula (al) is of formula
      N0
          wherein
   the dashed line indicates attachment to the sulfur of formula (al).
 5 The hydrogel obtained from step (C) has the structure of formula (IXa) or (IXb):
           SAY0 - Z                       (IXa)
             Ayl - SP2 - Ay2 - Z          (IXb);
 0        wherein
          the dashed line indicates attachment to the hydrogel of step (A);
          AY0 is the linkage formed between Ao and AX3 ;
          Ay' is used as in formula (VIII);
          Ay2 is the linkage formed between A2 and A        3
                                                              ;
25         SP 2 is used as in formula (VI); and
          Z is used as in formula (VII).
   Preferably, AY0 of step (A) and Ay2 of formula (IXb) are selected from the group consisting of
   amide, carbamate,
30
                       * N                                      N
                                        and
                              0                           0
                    wherein

      WO 2014/056915                                    78                              PCT/EP2013/070949
                    the dashed lines marked with an asterisk indicate attachment to the hydrogel or
                    SP 2 , respectively; and
                    the unmarked dashed lines indicate attachment to Z of formula (VII).
 5 In one embodiment, Z of step (C) is selected from the group consisting of C 1 _5 o alkyl, C2 -50
   alkenyl, C2-5 o alkynyl, C3 _10 cycloalkyl, 4- to 7-membered heterocyclyl, 8- to 11-membered
   heterobicyclyl, phenyl; naphthyl; indenyl; indanyl; and tetralinyl; which C1 _5 0 alkyl, C2 -50
   alkenyl, C2-5 o alkynyl, C3 _10 cycloalkyl, 4- to 7-membered heterocyclyl, 8- to 11-membered
   heterobicyclyl, phenyl; naphthyl; indenyl; indanyl; and tetralinyl are optionally substituted
 0 with one or more R 10 , which are the same or different and wherein C 1 _5 o alkyl; C2 -5 0 alkenyl;
   and C2 -5 0 alkynyl are optionally interrupted by one or more group(s) selected from the group
   consisting of T, -C(O)O-; -0-; -C(O)-; -C(O)N(R 9)-; -S(0) 2N(R 9)-; -S(O)N(R 9)-; -S(0) 2 -;
   S(O)-; -N(R 9)S(O)2N(R 9 a)-; -S-; -N(R 9)-; -OC(O)R 9 ; -N(R 9)C(O)-; -N(R 9)S(O) 2 -;
   N(R9)S(O)-; -N(R 9)C(O)O-; -N(R9 )C(O)N(R 9a)-; and -OC(O)N(R9R 9a);
 5
         wherein
         R9, R9a                       are independently selected from the group consisting of H; T;
                                       C 1 _5 o alkyl; C2 -5 o alkenyl; and C2 -50 alkynyl, which T; C1 _50
                                       alkyl; C2 -5 0 alkenyl; and C2 -50 alkynyl are optionally substituted
 0                                     with one or more R10 , which are the same or different and
                                       which C1 _5 0 alkyl;        C2 -50   alkenyl; and C 2 -5 o alkynyl are
                                       optionally interrupted by one or more group(s) selected from
                                       the group consisting of T, -C(0)0-; -0-; -C(O)-; -C(O)N(R" )
                                                -S(0) 2N(R" )-;       -S(O)N(R")-;       -S(O) 2 -;    -S(O)-;
 5                                     -N(R"I)S(O) 2N(Rnla)-; -S-; -N(R")-; -OC(O)R"; -N(R")C(O)
                                                 -N(R")S(O)2-;            -N(R"1)S(O)-;        -N(R")C(O)O-;
                                       -N(Rll)C(O)N(R'a)-; and -OC(O)N(R"R1a);
            T                          is selected from the group consisting of phenyl; naphthyl;
                                       indenyl; indanyl; tetralinyl; C3 _10 cycloalkyl; 4- to 7-membered
30                                     heterocyclyl; and 8- to 11- membered heterobicyclyl, wherein
                                       T is optionally substituted with one or more R10 , which are the
                                       same or different;
         R 10                          is halogen;        CN;     oxo     (=0);   COOR ; OR1;        C(O)R1;
                                       C(O)N(R R a); S(O) 2N(R R a); S(O)N(R R a); S(O) 2R12 ;
35                                     S(O)R 12 ; N(R 12)S(O) 2N(Ra R 12); SR 12 ; N(R R a); NO 2 ;
                                       OC(O)R 1 2; N(R12 )C(O)R 1 2a; N(R1 2)S(O)2R 12a; N(R1 2)S(O)R 1 2a;
                                       N(R )C(O)OR12 a; N(R 12)C(O)N(Ra R 12); OC(O)N(R R a);
                                       or C 1-6 alkyl, which C1-6 alkyl is optionally substituted with
                                       one or more halogen, which are the same or different;

       WO 2014/056915                           79                             PCT/EP2013/070949
         R", Ra, R,      Ra , R12 are independently of each other selected from the group
                                  consisting of H; and C1 -6 alkyl, which C1 -6 alkyl is optionally
                                  substituted with one or more halogen, which are the same or
                                  different.
 5
   In another embodiment Z of step (C) is an inert polymer having a molecular weight ranging
   from 0.5 kDa to 1000 kDa, preferably having a molecular weight ranging from 0.5 to 500
   kDa, more preferably having a molecular weight ranging from 0.75 to 250 kDa, even more
   preferably ranging from 1 to 100 kDa, even more preferably ranging from 5 to 60 kDa, even
 0 more preferably from 10 to 50 and most preferably Z has a molecular weight of 40 kDa.
   Preferably, Z of step (C) is an inert polymer selected from the group consisting of 2
   methacryloyl-oxyethyl      phosphoyl      cholins,     poly(acrylic    acids),     poly(acrylates),
   poly(acrylamides), poly(alkyloxy) polymers, poly(amides), poly(amidoamines), poly(amino
 5 acids),  poly(anhydrides),  poly(aspartamides),     poly(butyric   acids), poly(glycolic    acids),
   polybutylene terephthalates,   poly(caprolactones),     poly(carbonates), poly(cyanoacrylates),
   poly(dimethylacrylamides),       poly(esters),       poly(ethylenes),      poly(ethyleneglycols),
   poly(ethylene oxides), poly(ethyl phosphates), poly(ethyloxazolines), poly(glycolic acids),
   poly(hydroxyethyl acrylates), poly(hydroxyethyl-oxazolines), poly(hydroxymethacrylates),
 0 poly(hydroxypropylmethacrylamides),                poly(hydroxypropyl              methacrylates),
   poly(hydroxypropyloxazo lines), poly(imino carbonates), poly(lactic acids), poly(lactic-co
   glycolic   acids),  poly(methacrylamides),      poly(methacrylates),     poly(methyloxazo lines),
   poly(organophosphazenes), poly(ortho esters), poly(oxazolines), poly(propylene glycols),
   poly(siloxanes),     poly(urethanes),      poly(vinyl      alcohols),     poly(vinyl      amines),
 5 poly(vinylmethylethers),    poly(vinylpyrrolidones),      silicones,   celluloses,    carbomethyl
   celluloses, hydroxypropyl methylcelluloses, chitins, chitosans, dextrans, dextrins, gelatins,
   hyaluronic acids and derivatives, functionalized hyaluronic acids, mannans, pectins,
   rhamnogalacturonans, starches, hydroxyalkyl starches, hydroxyethyl starches and other
   carbohydrate-based polymers, xylans, and copolymers thereof.
30
   In a preferred embodiment Z of step (C) is an inert linear or branched PEG-based polymer
   comprising at least 70% PEG or a hyaluronic acid-based polymer comprising at least 70%
   hyaluronic acid. More preferably, Z of step (C) is an inert linear or branched PEG-based
   polymer comprising at least 70% PEG, even more preferably comprising at least 80% PEG
35 and most preferably comprising at least 90% PEG.
   In another preferred embodiment Z of step (C) is a zwitterionic polymer. Preferrably, such
   zwitterionic polymer comprises poly(amino acids) and/or poly(acrylates).

       WO 2014/056915                           80                            PCT/EP2013/070949
   As used herein, the terms "zwitterion" and "zwitterionic" refer to a neutral molecule or
   moiety with positive and negative charges at different locations within that molecule or
   moiety at the same time.
 5 According to Zhang et al. (Nature Biotechnology, 2013, volume 31, number 6, pages 553
   557) hydrogels made of zwitterionic polymers resist the foreign body response.
   Step (C) comprises reacting the hydrogel of step (A) or step (B) with a reagent of formula
   (VII) in such manner that no more than 99 mol-% of A or Ax2 react with A 3 . This can be
 0 achieved, for example, by reacting at most 0.99 chemical equivalents of the reagent of
   formula (VII) relative to A* or Ax2 with the hydrogel of step (A) or (B).
   In order to prevent the reaction of more than 0.99 chemical equivalents, the reagent of
   formula (VII) can be used in an amount of at most 0.99 chemical equivalents relative to A* or
 5 Ax2 or, alternatively, the reaction rate is monitored and the reaction is interrupted when at
   most 0.99 chemical equivalents relative to AO or Ax2 have reacted, especially when more than
   0.99 chemical equivalents are used. It is understood that also due to physical constraints, such
   as steric hindrance, hydrophobic properties or other characteristics of the inert moiety Z, no
   more than 0.99 chemical equivalents may be capable of reacting with AXO or Ax2 , even if more
 0 chemical equivalents are added to the reaction.
   Preferably, step (C) comprises reacting the hydrogel of step (A) or step (B) with a reagent of
   formula (VII) in such manner that no more than 80 mol-% of A or Ax2 react with Ax3, even
   more preferably, such that no more than 60 mol-% of A* or Ax2 react with A*0, even more
 5 preferably, such that no more than 40 mol-% of A* or Ax2 react with AX3, even more
   preferably, such that no more than 20 mol-% of AXO or Ax2 react with A 3 and most preferably,
   such that no more than 15 mol-% of AxO or Ax2 react with A 3 .
   This can be achieved, for example, by reacting at most 0.8, 0.6, 0.4, 0.2 or 0.15 chemical
30 equivalents of the reagent of formula (VII) relative to A* or Ax2 with the hydrogel of step (A)
   or (B), respectively.
   Methods to prevent the reaction of more chemical equivalents are described above.
35 Based on the measurements of the amount of substance of Axo of step (A) and after step (C)
   the amount of substance of reacted AO can be calculated with equation (1):
          (1) Amount of substance of reacted AO in mmol/g = (AxO 1 -   AO2 ) / (AO2 x MWz + 1),

       WO 2014/056915                           81                              PCT/EP2013/070949
         wherein
         Ax0 1 is the amount of substance of functional groups AxO of the hydrogel of step (A) in
                mmol/g;
         AxO2 is the amount of substance of functional groups AO of the hydrogel after step (C)
 5              in mmol/g; and
         MWz is the molecular weight of Z in g/mmol.
   If the optional spacer reagent was covalently conjugated to the hydrogel of step (A), the
   calculation of the number of reacted Ax2 is done accordingly.
 0
   The percentage of reacted functional groups Axo relative to the functional groups Axo of the
   hydrogel of step (A) is calculated according to equation (2):
          (2) mol-% of reacted AO   = 100 x [(A 0 1 - Ax0 2 ) / (A 0
                                                                     2 x MWz + 1)] / A 0 1,
 5
           wherein the variables are used as above.
   In one embodiment Z of step (C) is conjugated to the surface of the hydrogel. This can be
   achieved by selecting the size and structure of the reagent AX3 -Z such that it is too large to
 0 enter the pores or network of the hydrogel. Accordingly, the minimal size of Ax3-Z depends
   on the properties of the hydrogel. The person skilled in the art however knows methods how
   to test whether a reagent Ax3-Z is capable of entering into the hydrogel using standard
   experimentation, for example by using size exclusion chromatography with the hydrogel as
   stationary phase.
 5
   A biologically active moiety is connected to the hydrogel of the polymeric prodrug through a
   reversible prodrug linker. The reversible prodrug linkers of a polymeric prodrug may be the
   same or different. Preferably, the reversible prodrug linkers of the polymeric prodrug are the
   same.
30
   A suitable reversible prodrug linker moiety may be chosen depending on the one or more
   functional groups present in the corresponding drug of a biologically active moiety. Suitable
   reversible prodrug linker moieties are known to the person skilled in the art and preferred
   examples are given in the following sections.
35
   In a preferred embodiment, the reversible prodrug linker moiety connecting the polymeric
   carrier to a biologically active moiety is a traceless prodrug linker. Preferably, all reversible
   prodrug linker moieties of the polymeric prodrug are traceless prodrug linkers.

       WO 2014/056915                           82                          PCT/EP2013/070949
   A preferred reversible prodrug linker moiety for amine-comprising drugs is described in WO
   A 2005/099768. Therefore, the following sub-structures selected from the general formulas
   (II) and (III) are preferred embodiments for reversible prodrug linker-biologically active
   moiety conjugates:
 5
                             [R4]m
                     Y                        X       Y
                       1    Y2                      3      D
           Nu-W-Y      4             Ar       R3
                             [R4]m        X.
                     y                        R2      Y
                         1 Y2      0                3  rD
           Nu-W-Y      4             Ar       R3
 0        wherein the dashed line indicates attachment to the polymeric carrier or to a spacer
          moiety which is connected to the polymeric carrier, and wherein X, YI, Y 2 , Y3 , Y 4 , Y5 ,
          R2, R3, R4, Nu, W, m, and D of formulas (II) and (III) have the following meaning:
          D is an amine-comprising biologically active moiety which is attached to the rest of
 5        the sub-structure shown in formula (II) or (III) by forming a -O-(C=0)-N-; -O-(C=S)
          N-; -S-(C=O)-N-; or -S-(C=S)-N- linkage;
          X is a spacer moiety R5-Y6;
20        Y1 and Y 2 are each independently 0, S or NR6;
          Y 3 is 0 or S;
          Y 4 is 0, NR6, or -C(R7)(R8)-;
25
          Y5 is 0 or S;
          Y6 is 0, S, NR6, succinimide, maleimide, unsaturated carbon-carbon bonds or any
           heteroatom containing a free electron pair or is absent;
30
           R2 and R3 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
           substituted or unsubstituted linear, branched or cyclical alkyl or heteroalkyl groups,

       WO 2014/056915                              83                              PCT/EP2013/070949
            aryls, substituted aryls, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryls, cyano groups, nitro
            groups, halogens, carboxy groups, carboxyalkyl groups, alkylcarbonyl groups and
            carboxamidoalkyl groups;
 5          R4 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,          substituted or unsubstituted
            linear, branched or cyclical alkyls or heteroalkyls, aryls,   substituted aryls, substituted
            or unsubstituted heteroaryl, substituted or unsubstituted      linear, branched or cyclical
            alkoxys, substituted or unsubstituted linear, branched or      cyclical    heteroalkyloxys,
            aryloxys or heteroaryloxys, cyano groups and halogens;
 0
            R5 is selected from substituted or non-substituted linear, branched or cyclical alkyl or
            heteroalkyl, aryls, substituted aryls, substituted or non-substituted heteroaryls;
            R6 is selected from hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted linear, branched or cyclical
 5          alkyls or heteroalkyls, aryls, substituted aryls and substituted       or     unsubstituted
            heteroaryls;
            R7 and R8 are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
            substituted or unsubstituted linear, branched or cyclical alkyls or heteroalkyls, aryls,
 0          substituted aryls, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryls, carboxyalkyl groups,
            alkylcarbonyl groups, carboxamidoalkyl groups, cyano groups, and halogens;
            W is selected from substituted or unsubstituted linear, branched or cyclical alkyls,
            aryls, substituted aryls, substituted or unsubstituted linear, branched      or     cyclical
 5          heteroalkyls, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryls;
            Nu is a nucleophile;
            m is 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6, and
30
            Ar is a multi-substituted        aromatic hydrocarbon or multi-substituted aromatic
            heterocycle.
   Optionally, the reversible prodrug linker-biologically active moiety conjugates of formula (II)
35 or (III) is further substituted.
   Preferably, Nu of formulas (II) and (III) is selected from the group comprising primary,
   secondary and tertiary amine; thiol; carboxylic acid; hydroxylamine; hydrazine; and nitrogen
   containing heteroaryl.

       WO 2014/056915                            84                            PCT/EP2013/070949
   Preferably, Ar of formulas (II) and (III) is selected from one of the following structures:
                                              B               N        N
                                     -~B                        -NN
           No          N         N
                  :  N          N              B             -N
                     N         N                            N
   wherein each B is independently selected from 0, S, N.
 5 Preferably, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6, R7, R8 and W of formulas (II) and (III) are independently
   selected from hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, ethoxy, methoxy, and other Ci-6 linear, cyclical or
   branched alkyls and heteroalkyls.
   Another suitable reversible prodrug linker moiety for amine-comprising drugs is described in
 0 WO-A 2006/136586. Accordingly, the following sub-structures selected from the general
   formulas (IV), (V) and (VI) are preferred embodiments for reversible prodrug linker
   biologically active moiety conjugates:
                     R7   R5
           R2-0
                     R8   R6          R
                     R12 R1 ON                 D
           R3-0                      __
                     R11 R9
                                                  (IV),
15
                     R7   X
           R2-0
                     R8   R6          R
                     R12 R1O N                 D
           R3-0                       R5
                     R11 R9
                                                       (V),

      WO 2014/056915                              85                            PCT/EP2013/070949
                      X    R5
           R2-0--
                                       R40O
                      R8   R6
                      R12 R10     N            D
           R3-O_        __             R7
                      R11 R9
                                                   (VI),
           wherein the dashed line indicates attachment to the hydrogel or to a spacer moiety
           which is connected to the hydrogel, and wherein X, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6, R7, R8, R9,
 5         RIO, RI 1, R12 and D of formulas (IV), (V) and (VI) have the following meaning:
           D is an amine-comprising biologically active moiety;
           X is a spacer R13-Yl;
 0
           Y1 is 0, S, NR6, succinimide, maleimide, an unsaturated carbon-carbon bond, or any
           heteroatom-containing a free electron pair or Y1 is absent;
           R2 and R3 are selected independently from hydrogen, acyl groups, and protecting
 5         groups for hydroxyl groups;
           R4 to R12 are selected independently from hydrogen, substituted or non-substituted
           linear, branched or cyclical alkyl or heteroalkyl, aryls, substituted aryls, substituted or
           non-substituted heteroaryls, cyano, nitro, halogen, carboxy, and carboxamide; and
20
           R13 is selected from substituted or non-substituted linear, branched or cyclical alkyl or
           heteroalkyl, aryls, substituted aryls, substituted or non-substituted heteroaryls.
   Optionally, the reversible prodrug linker-biologically active moiety conjugates of formula
25 (IV), (V) or (VI) is further substituted.
   Another suitable reversible prodrug linker moiety for primary amine- or secondary amine
   comprising drugs is described in WO-A 2009/095479. Accordingly, a preferred polymeric
   prodrug is given by a prodrug conjugate D-L, wherein
30
             -D is the primary amine- or secondary amine-comprising biologically active moiety;
             and

   WO 2014/056915                                  86                             PCT/EP2013/070949
       -L is a non-biologically active linker moiety -L' represented by formula (VII),
                                             1
                      R3 a              3R          Rla
                                        X
                     R       RH*                     0
                                                           (VII),
 5            wherein the dashed line indicates the attachment to a primary or secondary
              amino group of an amine-containing biologically active moiety D by forming
              an amide bond; and wherein X, X1, X2 , R , R R2, R2a, R3, and R 3 a of formula
              (VII) have the following meaning:
 0            X is C(R4R4a); N(R4); 0; C(R4R4a)-C(RRsa); C(R 5 Rsa)-C(R4R4a); C(R4R4a )_
             N(R6 ); N(R 6)- C(R 4 R 4 a); C(R 4 R4a)-O; or O-C(R 4R 4 a);
              X1 is C; or S(O);
 5            X2 is C(R 7 , R7a); or  C(R7,   R7 a)-C(RS, R a);
              x 3 is 0-, S-, or N-CN;
              RRia, R 2,R     2
                                aR 3 ,R 3
                                          aR   4
                                                 ,R 4
                                                      a, RRa, R 6,R 7 ,R 7 a, RS, Ra are independently
 0            selected from the group consisting of H; and C1 4 alkyl; or
              optionally, one or more of the pairs Ria/R 4 a, Ria/Rsa, R 4 a/Rsa, R 4 a/Rsa, R 7 a/Ra
              form a chemical bond;
25            optionally, one or more of the pairs Ri/Ria, R 2 /R 2 a, R 4/R 4 a, R5 /Rsa, R7/R 7 a,
              RS/R8a are joined together with the atom to which they are attached to form a
              C3 _7 cycloalkyl; or 4 to 7 membered heterocyclyl;
              optionally, one or more of the pairs R1/R 4, R1 /R', R 1/R 6 , R 4/R', R 7/R', R 2/R 3
30            are joined together with the atoms to which they are attached to form a ring A;
              optionally, R3 /R3 a are joined together with the nitrogen atom to which they are
              attached to form a 4 to 7 membered heterocycle;

       WO 2014/056915                              87                            PCT/EP2013/070949
                    A is selected from the group consisting of phenyl; naphthyl; indenyl; indanyl;
                    tetralinyl; C3 _10 cycloalkyl; 4 to 7 membered heterocyclyl; and 9 to 11
                    membered heterobicyclyl; and
 5         wherein Ll is substituted with one group L 2-Z and optionally further substituted,
           provided that the hydrogen marked with the asterisk in formula (VII) is not replaced
           by a substituent and preferably provided that R3 and R 3a are independently of each
            other H or are connected to N through an SP 3-hybridized carbon atom; and
 0                  wherein
                    L2 is a single chemical bond or a spacer; and
                    Z is the polymeric carrier of the polymeric prodrug.
 5
   Preferably, X 3 of formula (VII) is 0.
   Thus, the polymeric carrier is attached to any one of Rl, R a, R2, R2a, R3, R3a, X, or X 2 of
   formula (VII), either directly (if L2 is a single chemical bond) or through a spacer moiety (if
 0 L2 is a spacer).
   Optionally, Ll in formula (VII) is further substituted, provided that the hydrogen marked with
   the asterisk in formula (VII) is not replaced by a substituent. Preferably, the one or more
   further optional substituents are independently selected from the group consisting of halogen,
 5 CN, COOR9, OR 9, C(O)R 9, C(O)N(R9R9a), S(O) 2N(R9R9a), S(O)N(R9 R9a), S(O) 2R9, S(O)R 9,
   N(R9)S(O) 2N(R9aR9), SR9, N(R9R9a), NO 2, OC(O)R 9, N(R 9)C(O)R 9 a, N(R 9)S(O) 2 R9a
   N(R9)S(O)R9a , N(R 9)C(O)OR9a , N(R 9)C(O)N(R9aR9 ), OC(O)N(R9R9a), T, C1 _5 o alkyl, C2 -50
   alkenyl, and C2 -50 alkynyl,
30 wherein T, C1 _5 0 alkyl, C2 -50 alkenyl, and C2 -50 alkynyl are optionally substituted with one or
   more R10 , which are the same or different, and wherein C1 _5 0 alkyl; C2 -5 0 alkenyl; and C2 -50
   alkynyl are optionally interrupted by one or more groups selected from the group consisting
   of T, -C(O)O-; -0-; -C(O)-; -C(O)N(R")-; -S(O) 2N(R")-; -S(O)N(R")-; -S(O) 2 -; -S(O)-;
   N(R" )S(O)2N(Rl a)-; -S-; -N(R")-; -OC(O)R"; -N(R")C(O)-; -N(R"I)S(O)2-; -N(R")S(O)-;
35 -N(R")C(O)O-; -N(Rl)C(O)N(Rlla)-; and -OC(O)N(R R a);
   T is selected from the group consisting of phenyl, naphthyl, indenyl, indanyl, tetralinyl, C3 _10
   cycloalkyl, 4- to 7-membered heterocyclyl, and 9- to 11 -membered heterobicyclyl, wherein T
   is optionally substituted with one or more R10 , which are the same or different,

        WO 2014/056915                                      88                              PCT/EP2013/070949
  R9, R9a, R         are independently selected from the group consisting of H; T; and C1 50 alkyl;
  C 2 -50 alkenyl; and C 2-50 alkynyl,
  RI is halogen, CN, oxo (=0), COOR                    ,  OR 12 , C(O)R 1 2 , C(O)N(R R       a),   S(O) 2 N(R R      a),
5 S(O)N(R R           a),    S(O) 2 R    , S(O)R 12           12
                                                    , N(R )S(O) 2 N(Ra R12),           SR   ,   N(R R        a), NO 2 ,
  OC(O)R 12 ,           N(R 2 )C(O)R12 a, N(R12 )S(O) 2 R 2 a, N(R 2)S(O)R 2 a, N(Rl2)C(O)OR12 a
  N(R )C(O)N(Ra R12), OC(O)N(R R a), or C1 -6 alkyl, wherein C 1 -6 alkyl is optionally
  substituted with one or more halogen, which are the same or different,
    11       Ila   12      12a  12b
0 R", Ra, R           ,  Ra, R        are independently selected from the group consisting of H; orC1-6
  alkyl, wherein C1 -6 alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more halogen, which are the
  same or different.
  The term "interrupted" means that between two carbons a group is inserted or at the end of
5 the carbon chain between the carbon and hydrogen.
  Preferred moieties Ll according to formula (VII) are selected from the group consisting of:
                                                                             3
                                                                           R a
                                                      H       N _X         N R3
          R3a                         ,,H*                          R2   R
       R         2   H*
                        3111NN                                                 X20
                          RH,                                                        N    00
                                                      HR                    R2    H*           0                 R3 a
                   2                                                                                       2RN
        3
   R                     N     O O                                     NH*                                  R2
        RR     R2    H*                                  N           2
                                                           H*    R2  R
                                                                                          a       ,

    WO 2014/056915                                  89                                                PCT/EP2013/070949
      R3a
       1         2                0
 R  3N         XN                               O0
             2
     R
                        0
                             4                                           R3                   O                            R
                      X- NHR 0
                 3  2                                                                                                          3
 R,          N                                                                                                          R2
R R2a      2     H N                                  H*       R2      R2a                                 H*     R2 R
                                               O                        3a                R 3a0                                 0
                                               0                     R                     1           20
     R3a                                                   2X        1                3. N            X-         )L    1
               2                 0                 N                       R          R                      Nr H
R                                   N             \ H*        R2    R2a                     R                  0         R    0
                        OH3 NHR4                                                   3
                                                                                      N             X                  0
                                             O                                    R     D       ,          /N
                                                                                      R       R2       H*
                                        RR3a                                                                           R
                                                                 4
                                         R2                    R                       R3a                    0              0
                                      N                                                 1H2N
                                             H* H*             O
                                                        1
                       N    Ri       H                             R           HN                                        R1     R
                                                                                1   a             o                       la
                      R     Rla                        O     R        i                                        R
                                                    HH*            O                                  H      *                   O0
         NN,                                        XHNX
          N"     N    X                                          N                           -N                 X
               H*           0                    H*              0                                H*                0
          N      *         O              N             XNXXN
                                                          xlla
    N          NIllxN
               N      X                            I~                         ~    ~                     I           l
               H*          0                        N               0X                                 H
                   00          '                    H*                0     0*

      WO 2014/056915                                           90                                       PCT/EP2013/070949
                        1
       RHN        OR           Rla
                                                                                                        1
                                                           O R
                                                                1
                                                                        Ra                            OR     Ra
       N        N     X                HN
                         ~N              X                            N                      N
                H*                             I        N    x                                     NN X
                                                        H*                                         H*         O
                             1
                    0&      R Rl
                                                                                1                                         1
        N        N    X                 HO         N                      OR          Ria   RHN     N                OR     R a
                 H*            0             0           IN*NOX           X-0X                            N       NX
                   OR
                         1
                              Rla                                     H*              0                           H*        0
                                                                           1
                N      X               R         N                    O R          Ra
                H*             0                      N
                     O R        Ria                               H*  1
                                                                                   0
        H              1                                        OR           Ril
        N        N       X                         N                                             N        O R1    Ra
                 H*              O                          N        X                    R-N
                                                     r      H*               0                         1    x
                                                                                                      H*          0
           wherein
 5         dashed lines indicate attachment to D of formula (VII);
           R is H or C_4 alkyl;
           Y is NH, O or S; and
 0
             1     la      2     2a  3    3      4        1     2
           R,R          R2,R2a,Rl, Rla,R4, X, X1, X2 have the meaning as indicated in formula (VII).
   Even more preferred moieties L' of formula (VII) are selected from the group consisting of:
15
                                                                                        O                    0
                                                                                                                        NN
                                  -N N             0        N -,
                                         N      0      N      0                                        0
                                              H*                         H*
                                                                                         O                    0
                                                                                               "-0              I       N
           NI0                     N               0       -NW
             N      0                     N      0 O        N            N        0                    O0       H*
             H*                           H*                             H*
               H*                0
    2N
                   0

   WO 2014/056915                                   91                    PCT/EP2013/070949
               H*         0
          N
     H                                                   O
                                                       H
                H*          0                                          H*           0
                                - H2 NH                           N
       H            0                 H 2N
                   S'R
            0      NH   0
H 2N         N
     2O
                                     00
                                                 NNN           N    00 H2 N             0
                              N          0NN. 0                H*
                                          *H*                                   H
                    N 0       N           N    0          N NN                    N-- -   00
                              H*          H**                                     H*
         0
                          H                *N
      5                                       NN
                    00
      0"                      0"O                                          0'
        S   H*                       H*                     H*                 H*
       H* N    N              N          H*                                             N
                      |                   H

  WO 2014/056915                                     92                            PCT/EP2013/070949
                                                            -N         00                N    0
                                      O      H*H
               O.
      HH      00                              H                   W       '       N
                                      00
                                     00
    H*      ""-N"-           -"                          (,N>      N~       0N             N    0
                                                 N               O
                                          H*
           -0       O          0                                      0O                H
                                                            N                  0        H
         NNN               HN     0                                               H2N       N0ON
                        0                                   NN
  N          N        0                N       N      O                N            HNN  0
                             NHH2
            H*                                H*
                         2      0                             NN
H
2N         N     O       NH 0              N     N    00
     ONH 2              H2N         N
           H*                                    H*
                N--           N                     NN                 N
      H*N                  *                   H*          NH*                 N*
           *     N                                                   H N
                                                   H**HO
   H,  0      ,N00           0      N      N                H
  N                   0         - -              N
           H*                   O          N          0*
               *    N                    0                     N

     WO 2014/056915                                   93                                PCT/EP2013/070949
               H*             O                 H*           O                     O             O
               N               N                                              N
     N         N         N
               H*
                   0     H       0                     0    HN0
                                         N    N                       N              NO    0
               H*                                  H
                   0      H      0                     0    H       0
     N         N                        N                   N
                          NN1                      N                                          0
                                                                                       NO0
               H*                                  H*                                  H
                         SR                              SR                                 SR
              H*\0       NH
                         NH0                       02    NH     0                H*\
                                                                                     0      NH     0
                                               HNN                         N         N
                      0                                0              0-"                0
                      SR                            SR
           H*         NH   0             H\2o       NH    0
              N                    N         N
                                      N                         N             0
                                                             HN                   N
    N      N        0       ,      N0     0          -N   "N       _O0                ,    N         0
           H*                       H*                         H*                              H
                                                                               0
                 0                                 HN             N                            N0
                                        NHN                                  AN
      -N               0       N            0            N               0              N0
         wherein
         dashed lines indicate attachment to D of formula (VII), and
[0
         R is H or CI alkyl.
   Another preferred polymeric prodrug is given by a conjugate D-L, wherein
15       -D is the biologically active moiety; and

       WO 2014/056915                              94                           PCT/EP2013/070949
           -L is a non-biologically active linker moiety -L' represented by formula (VIII),
                      R1   Rla
                     R     Ri
                    x
                            O        (VIII),
                    wherein the dashed line indicates attachment to a primary amine- or secondary
 5                  amine-comprising biologically active moiety D by forming an amide bond; and
                    wherein X, R 1 , and Ria of formula (VIII) have the following meaning:
                    X is H or C1 _5 0 alkyl, optionally interrupted by one or more groups selected
                    from -NH-, -C(C 1 _4 alkyl)-, -0-, -C(O)- or -C(O)NH-;
 0
                    RI and Ria are independently selected from the group consisting of H and C1
                    C 4 alkyl;
           wherein L' is substituted with one group L2 -Z and optionally further substituted; and
 5         wherein
                    L2 is a single chemical bond or a spacer; and
                    Z is the polymeric carrier of the polymeric prodrug.
 0
   Thus, the polymeric carrier is attached to any one of R1 , Ria or X of formula (VIII), either
   directly (if L2 is a single chemical bond) or through a spacer moiety (if L2 is a spacer).
   Optionally, the sub-structure of formula (VIII) is further substituted.
25
   More preferably, L' of formula (VIII) comprises one of the fragments of formulas (VIlIb) or
   (VIlIc), wherein the dashed line marked with an asterisk indicates attachment to D by forming
   an amide bond with the aromatic amino group of D and the unmarked dashed line indicates
   attachment to the rest of Li of formula (VIII) and wherein the structures of formulas (VIlIb)
30 and (VIlIc) are optionally further substituted:
       0                                       'N
                                                 H
                0         (Vllb)                         0     (Ville).

      WO 2014/056915                                95                               PCT/EP2013/070949
   More preferably, L' of formula (VIII) comprises one of the fragments of formulas (VIIIba),
   (VIIIca), or (VIIIcb), wherein the dashed line marked with an asterisk indicates attachment to
   D of formula (VIII) by forming an amide bond with the aromatic amino group of D and the
   unmarked dashed line indicates attachment to the rest of L of formula (VIII):
      'N          O*N         0                                 H
 5        0               0      (VIIIba)               0               0     (VIIIca)
      0
          N
          H
                  0       (VIIIcb).
   Another suitable reversible prodrug linker moiety for aromatic amine-comprising drugs is
 0 described in WO-A 2011/012721. Accordingly, a preferred polymeric prodrug is given by a
   conjugate D-L, wherein
          -D is the biologically active moiety; and
          -L is a non-biologically active linker moiety -L' represented by formula (IX),
 5
                             0
                   RKX
                        N       X
                         I2a              r
                        R                0       (IX),
                  wherein the dashed line indicates the attachment to an aromatic amine group of
                  an aromatic amine-containing             biologically active moiety D by forming an
20                amide bond; and wherein X1, X2, R2 and R 2 a of formula (IX) have the
                  following meaning:
                  X1 is C(RlRia) or a cyclic fragment selected from C3 _7 cycloalkyl, 4- to 7
                  membered heterocyclyl, phenyl, naphthyl, indenyl, indanyl, tetralinyl, and 9- to
25                 11 -membered heterobicyclyl,
                  X2 is a chemical bond or selected from C(R 3R 3 a), N(R3 ), 0, C(R 3 R3 a)-C(R4 R4a),
                  C(R 3R 3 a)-N(R 4 ), N(R 3)-C(R 4 R 4 a), C(R 3R 3a)-0, and O-C(R 3 R3 a),
30                wherein in case X1 is a cyclic fragment, X 2 is a chemical bond, C(R 3R 3 a),
                  N(R3 ) or 0,

      WO 2014/056915                              96                                          PCT/EP2013/070949
                   optionally, in case X' is a cyclic fragment and X2 is C(R 3 R3 a), the order of the
                   X1 fragment and the X2 fragment shown in formula (IX) may be changed,
                   R1 , R3 and R4 are independently selected from the group consisting of H, C1_4
 5                 alkyl and -N(R5Ra),
                   R a, R2, R2a, R3a, R 4 a and Rsa are independently selected from the group
                   consisting of H, and C1 4 alkyl,
 0                 optionally, one of the pairs R2 a/R 2 , R 2 a/R 3
                                                                     a,  R 2 a/R 4
                                                                                   a are joined to form a 4- to 7
                   membered at least partially saturated heterocycle,
                   R5 is C(O)R 6 ,
 5                 R6 is C 1 4 alkyl,
                   optionally, one of the pairs Ria/R 4 a, R 3 a/R     4
                                                                         a  or Rla/R 3 a form a chemical bond;
                   and
 0        wherein L' is substituted with one group L2 -Z and optionally further substituted; and
          wherein
                   L2 is a single chemical bond or a spacer; and
 5                 Z is the polymeric carrier of the polymeric prodrug.
                                                                           12    1     la   2   2a  3   3a   4   5
   Thus, the polymeric carrier is attached to any one of X1, X2,R',R                      ,RR ,RR ,R,R,
   Rsa or R6 of formula (IX), either directly (if L2 is a single chemical bond) or through a spacer
   moiety (if L2 is a spacer).
30
   More preferably, the moiety L' according to formula (IX) is selected from the following
   formulas:
                    o                 0
           R   N             O

      WO 2014/056915                                 97                          PCT/EP2013/070949
                    o                0
            2H
                            N
                N
                         0      R
                    o                O
               RN
                N           N
          wherein the dashed line indicates attachment to the biologically active moiety D, and
 5
          RI and R 2 are used as defined in formula (IX).
   Preferably, Ria, R2 , R2 a, R3 a, R 4 a and Rsa of formula (IX) are independently selected from the
   group consisting of H, and C 1 _4 alkyl.
 0
   Another suitable reversible prodrug linker moiety for aromatic amine-comprising drugs is
   described in WO 2011/012722. Accordingly, a preferred linker structure for the polymeric
   prodrug is given by a conjugate D-L, wherein
 5        -D is the biologically active moiety; and
          -L is a non-biologically active linker moiety -L' represented by formula (X),
                             0
                     2  N1
                                   X
                        H                  0       (X),
20                wherein the dashed line indicates attachment to an aromatic amine group of an
                  aromatic amine-containing biologically active moiety D; and wherein X1 , X2,
                  and R 2 of formula (X) have the following meaning:
                  X1 is C(RlRia) or a cyclic fragment selected from C3 _7 cycloalkyl, 4 to 7
25                membered heterocyclyl, phenyl, naphthyl, indenyl, indanyl, tetralinyl, and 9 to
                   11 membered heterobicyclyl;
                  wherein in case X1 is a cyclic fragment, said cyclic fragment is incorporated
                  via two adjacent ring atoms and the ring atom of X 1 , which is adjacent to the
30                carbon atom of the amide bond, is also a carbon atom;

      WO 2014/056915                                  98                            PCT/EP2013/070949
                   X2 is a chemical bond or selected from C(R 3 R3 a), N(R), 0, C(R 3 R3 a)-C(R4R 4a),
                   C(R 3 R3 a)-N(R 4), N(R3 )-C(R 4R 4a), C(R 3 R 3 a)-0, and O-C(R3 R3 a);
                   wherein in case X' is a cyclic fragment, X 2 is a chemical bond, C(R 3 R3 a),
 5                 N(R3 ) or 0;
                   optionally, in case X' is a cyclic fragment and X2 is C(R 3R 3 a), the order of the
                   X1 fragment and the X 2 fragment shown in formula (X) may be changed and
                   the cyclic fragment is incorporated into the sub-structure of formula (X) via
 0                 two adjacent ring atoms;
                   R1 , R3 and R4 are independently selected from the group consisting of H, C1_4
                   alkyl and -N(R 5 R5 a);
 5                 R  a, R2, R 3 a, R 4 a and Rsa are independently selected from the group consisting
                   of H, and C 1 _4 alkyl;
                   R5 is C(O)R 6 ;
 0                 R6 is C 1 _4 alkyl;
                   optionally, one of the pairs Ria/R4 a, R 3 a/R4 a or Rla/R 3 a form a chemical bond,
                   provided that the hydrogen marked with the asterisk in formula (X) is not
                   replaced;
 5
          wherein L' is substituted with one group L 2-Z and optionally further substituted,
          provided that the hydrogen marked with the asterisk in formula (X) is not replaced;
          and wherein
30                 L2 is a single chemical bond or a spacer; and
                   Z is the polymeric carrier of the polymeric prodrug.
   Thus, the polymeric carrier is attached to any one of X1, X2 , R1, Ra, R2, R , R3a, R4, R , Rsa
35 or R6 of formula (X), either directly (if L2 is a single chemical bond) or through a spacer
   moiety (if L2 is a spacer).
   More preferably, the moiety L' of formula (X) is selected from the group consisting of
   formulas (i) through (xxix):

     WO 2014/056915                                                            99                                                   PCT/EP2013/070949
           R2050                  SNHR                                   2
                                                                         2
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                              O
                                                                                                                                           0
     N                                                                     'N                                   R   /
                                         N                                                                            N
  H*   0      (i)                   H       0                                                  5
                                                                                                                                 (iv)
                                                            (ii)                   (iii)
                                                                                                       HO
                                            2     O          H
                                           R\
     N                                         N             N                                          0        ,       2
  H*          (v)                          H*              (vi)                            ,N        0 O               R    N         0
                                                                                         H*              (vii)          H*                  (viii)
             O                                        O0
                   N R2                                    N-H*
                     H*           ,                             R
                          (ix)                     --   -         (x)                            N                                 0      NR2
         O      ,'                                                                                H*                                         H*
                    2    R3       00                                            0
                                                                      N
         H*          (R          Ra
                          R N                                    R                                 2
                    OHRR                                                                         R~ N-               0       (xv) '
       (xiii)                                             (xiv)                                       ,N        0
                                                                                                   H*
                                                          H       N O                      S                                          H
                        R      k       '                            H *'H
                          0                        HH
        H*H (xvi)                              (xvii)                              H*
                                                                                         N        0                               R2-N
                                                                                                        (xviii)                 (xvix) H*
                     0                                   0                                   0                                   0
                          N-H* 2                               N-H              N                  N-H*                               NH
                   N           R2                                  R2           N                  N- R 2                                -H*
                                                                                                                                          R2
          N/-                                                                                                      N                  O
              (xx)                              (xx)                                       (xxii)                             (xxiii)
         R         H                         R             H                            R                                                        0
                               N      Ny                                                          N                            N        N
              H*      ~TK'                      *                                   H*Yi                                  H'~f                   la
                                              H*
        2
             0i
                         o0R3        O                           O                 O        0
                                                                                             ii                           H*
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                          R
           (xxiv)                                     (    xxv)                             (xxvi)                                   (xxvii)
         R\
           5           R     3
                            1O                          2H
                                                                 0                 0
                NI         N                         R\                     N
                                             or             N
                 H*0R               i                  H*'                   R    Ra
              (xxviii)                                         (xxix)
5         wherein the dashed line indicates attachment to D, and

       WO 2014/056915                                100                            PCT/EP2013/070949
              1     la    25
           R , R , R2, R3, and Ri are used as defined in formula (X).
   The amino substituent of the aromatic fragment of D forms together with the carbonyl
   fragment (-C(O)-) on the right hand side of L' (as depicted in formula (X)) an amide bond
 5 between L' and D. By consequence, D and L' of formula (X) are connected (chemically
   bound) by an amide fragment of the general structure Y1 -C(O)-N(R)-Y 2. Y1 indicates the
   remaining parts of the sub-structure of formula (X) and Y 2 indicates the aromatic fragment of
   D. R is a substituent, such as C 1 _4 alkyl or preferably hydrogen.
 0 As indicated above, X1 of formula (X) may also be a cyclic fragment such as C3 _7 cycloalkyl,
   phenyl or indanyl. In case X1 is such a cyclic fragment, the respective cyclic fragment is
   incorporated into L' of formula (X) via two adjacent ring atoms (of said cyclic fragment). For
   example, if X1 is phenyl, the phenyl fragment of L' is bound to X 2 of L' via a first (phenyl)
   ring atom being in a-position (adjacent) to a second (phenyl) ring atom, which itself is bound
 5 to the carbon atom of the carbonyl-fragment on the right hand side of L' according to formula
   (X), i.e. the carbonyl fragment which together with the aromatic amino group of D forms an
   amide bond.
   Preferably, L' of formula (X) is defined as follows:
 0
           X1 is C(RlRIa), cyclohexyl, phenyl, pyridinyl, norbonenyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl or thienyl,
           wherein in case X1 is a cyclic fragment, said cyclic fragment is incorporated into L' of
            formula (X) via two adjacent ring atoms;
 5
           X2 is a chemical bond or selected from C(R 3R 3 a), N(R3 ), 0, C(R 3R 3 a)-O or C(R 3R 3 a)_
            C(R 4 R 4 a);
            R1 , R3 and R4 are independently selected from H, C 1 _4 alkyl and -N(R 5 R5 a);
30
            R   a, R3a, R 4 a and R5 a are independently selected from H and C 1 _4alkyl;
            R2 is C 1 _4 alkyl;
35          R5 is C(O)R 6 ;
            R6 is C 1 _4 alkyl;
   More preferably, L' of formula (X) is selected from the following formulas (i) to (xxix):

       WO 2014/056915                                                             101                                                     PCT/EP2013/070949
   202                                                                                                               0                 0
  RN                               R 2\N                                RH N                                 R
                                        N                                 H*'                                     N
  H*     0       i                  H*                                          0        NHR'                  H*           (iv)
                                                     (ii)                          (iii)
                                                                                              H
       2                   o                         0          H       0
   H* N                                         N             (vi)                     R N        0                      N        0
                                                                                                       (vii)        H*                  (viii)
               O                                         0
                    N                                         N-H*
                      H*                                      0 R2
                                                                                                  2
                         (ix)                                         x                  0     NR                             0       NR
           O)                                                                                    H*                                      H*
                            3                                   0               0
                    2    R         0                  2       J,         H
         R      N                                   R                    N
                         NN
              H*              Ra                     H*/                 R     Ri              R2                 0        v
                                                             (xiv)                             R    N         0 O        (xv)
         (xiii)
                                                                                                 H*
                                                             H N
                                                                                  R        S
                          2*N                                           H*                                                        H
         R                  O   2                                                                   R                       H          R
              N         0                             HHR
                (xx               (                xxN                                          00                           R(2xN
                   (xi)                          ( xvii)                           H                  (xviii)                 (xvi)H*
                      0                                      0                               0                               0
                          NH*                    N               N-H*           N              -N H*                          t N-H*
                                                                                                        2                                2
                          5
                          C     2
                               O2           is
                                           an
                                                                                                                N                  0
                (xx)                              (xxi)                                    (xxii)                         (xxiii)
                     H                                                               2                  0              2            H        0
          NR         N                  H (xxviii)                 R
                                                                 (xxix                          H                   R
                                                    N          N                         /NyN-J                           N         NI
                                          0H*
                                               H*     YH*                                                                    YR           Ra
                                                                            0               0                                 0
            (xxiv)                                       (xxv)                               (xxvi)                              (xxvii)
                    R\
                      2   R3         00                                            0
                                     0                     2                H
                 N         N                            R\           ,      N
                                               or              N
                 H* 0               i                     H*                R1    Ra
                (xxviii)                                         (xxix)
            wherein the dashed line indicates attachment to D,
5            R' is C(O)R 6 , and
             R , R", R2, RWand Ri are independently from each other C-4 alkyl.

      WO 2014/056915                                  102                           PCT/EP2013/070949
   Another suitable reversible prodrug linker moiety for hydroxyl-comprising drugs is described
   in WO 2011/012721. Accordingly, a preferred polymeric prodrug is given by formula (XI):
          D-O-Z         0
                           (XI),
 5
         wherein,
         D is a hydroxyl-comprising biologically active moiety comprising 0, i.e. oxygen, of
          formula (XI) which is coupled to the moiety Z0 through said oxygen of the hydroxyl
 0        group; and wherein Z0 of formula (XI) has the following meaning:
         Z0       is    C(O)-X-ZI;         C(O)O-X-ZI;     S(O) 2-X-ZI; C(S)-X-ZI; S(O) 2 0-X-ZI;
          S(O) 2N(R)-X-Zl;              CH(OR)-X0 -Zl;       C(0R 1 )(0R 2)-X-Z 1 ;    C(O)N(R)-X-Zl;
         P(=0)(OH)O-X-Z 1 ; P(=O)(OR)O-X-Zl; P(=O)(SH)O-X-Zl; P(=O)(SR)O-X-Zl;
 5       P(=O)(OR)-X-Zl; P(=S)(OH)O-X-Zl; P(=S)(OR)O-X-Zl; P(=S)(OH)N(R)-X
         Z ; P(=S)(OR)N(R 2)-X-Zl; P(=O)(OH)N(R)-X-Zl; or P(=O)(OR)N(R 2 )-X-Zl;
         R1, R2 are independently selected from the group consisting of C1 _6 alkyl; or R1, R2
         jointly form a C1-6 alkylene bridging group;
 0
         X is (x0A)mi(X0B)M2 ;
         ml and m2 are independently 0 or 1;
 5       XOA is TO;
         X0B is a branched or unbranched C1 _10 alkylene group which is unsubstituted or
          substituted with one or more R3, which are the same or different;
30       R3    is halogen; CN; C(O)R4; C(O)OR4; OR4; C(O)R 4; C(O)N(R 4R4a); S(O) 2N(R4 R4a);
          S(O)N(R4R4a);          S(O) 2 R 4 ; S(O)R 4; N(R 4 )S(O) 2N(R4aR4b);  SR 4 ; N(R4R 4a);  NO 2 ;
                      4          4                   4
          OC(O)R ;          N(R )C(O)R4a ;      N(R )SO 2 R4a ;       4
                                                                 N(R )S(O)R4a ;        4
                                                                                    N(R )C(O)N(R4aR4);
                4
         N(R )C(O)OR4; OC(O)N(R4R4a); or TO;
35       R 4 , R 4 a, R 4b  are independently selected from the group consisting of H; TO; C1 _4 alkyl;
          C2 _4 alkenyl; and C 2 _4 alkynyl, wherein C1 _4 alkyl; C2 _4 alkenyl; and C 2 _4 alkynyl are
         optionally substituted with one or more R , which are the same of different;

   WO 2014/056915                              103                           PCT/EP2013/070949
     R5 is halogen; CN; C(O)R 6 ; C(O)OR 6 ; OR6; C(O)R6 ; C(O)N(R 6Ra); S(O) 2N(R6 R6a);
      S(O)N(R6R a); S(O) 2 R6 ; S(O)R6 ; N(R 6)S(O) 2N(R aR6b); SR6 ; N(R6 Ra); NO 2 ;
      OC(O)R6 ; N(R 6)C(O)R a; N(R6 )SO2R6a ; N(R 6)S(O)R a; N(R 6)C(O)N(RaR6b);
     N(R 6)C(O)OR6a; OC(O)N(R6R6a);
 5
     R6, R    a, R6b are independently selected from the group consisting of H; C1-6 alkyl; C2 -6
      alkenyl; and C2 -6 alkynyl, wherein CI- 6 alkyl; C2 -6 alkenyl; and C2 -6 alkynyl are
     optionally substituted with one or more halogen, which are the same of different;
 0   To is phenyl; naphthyl; azulenyl; indenyl; indanyl; C3 7 cycloalkyl; 3 to 7 membered
     heterocyclyl; or 8 to 11 membered heterobicyclyl, wherein To, is optionally substituted
     with one or more R7, which are the same or different;
     R7     is halogen;      CN; COOR';         OR'; C(O)R;      C(O)N(RR 1a);     S(O) 2N(RR     a);
 5    S(O)N(R R a); S(O) 2 R; S(O)R;              N(R8 )S(O) 2N(Ra R b);  SR8 ;  N(RR 1a); NO 2 ;
      OC(O)R';         N(R8 )C(O)R 8 a;    N(R8 )S(O) 2R a;    N(R8 )S(O)R a;     N(R8 )C(O)OR a.
     N(R8 )C(O)N(Ra R        b); OC(O)N(RR 1a); oxo (=0), where the ring is at least partially
      saturated; C1-6 alkyl; C2 -6 alkenyl; or C2 -6 alkynyl, wherein C1-6 alkyl; C2 -6 alkenyl; and
      C2 -6 alkynyl are optionally substituted with one or more R 9 , which are the same or
 0    different;
        8    8a   8b
     R ,R ,R         are independently selected from the group consisting of H; C1 -6 alkyl; C2 -6
      alkenyl; and C2 -6 alkynyl, wherein C1 -6 alkyl; C2 -6 alkenyl; and C2 -6 alkynyl are
     optionally substituted with one or more R10 , which are the same of different;
 5
     R 9 , RIO are independently selected from the group consisting of halogen; CN;
      C(O)R";         C(O)OR";       OR";       C(O)R"1 ; C(O)N(R"R a);           S(O) 2N(R"R a);
      S(O)N(R"R a); S(O) 2R"1 ; S(O)R"1 ; N(R")S(O) 2N(RllaR Il); SR ; N(RlRl1a); NO 2 ;
      OC(O)R 1 ; N(R                    N(R"
                                    a)C(O)Ra; )SO 2R Ia; N(R"l)S(O)Rl Ia; N(R" )C(O)N(Ra R Il);
30   N(R" )C(O)ORula; and OC(O)N(R" Rl la);
        II    Ia     Ilb
     R ,R        ,R      are independently selected from the group consisting of H; C1-6 alkyl;
      C2 -6 alkenyl; and C2 -6 alkynyl, wherein C1 -6 alkyl; C2 -6 alkenyl; and C2 -6 alkynyl are
     optionally substituted with one or more halogen, which are the same of different;
35
     Z' is the polymeric carrier of the polymeric prodrug, which is covalently attached to
     x.0

      WO 2014/056915                               104                           PCT/EP2013/070949
   Preferably, Z0 is C(O)-X-Z; C(O)O-X 0 -Z1 ; or S(O) 2 -X -Z . More preferably, Z0 is C(O)-X
   ZI; or C(O)O-X 0 -Z1 . Even more preferably, Z0 is C(O)-X-Zl.
   Preferably, X0 is unsubstituted.
 5
   Preferably, ml is 0 and m2 is 1.
   Preferably, X0 -Z0 is C(RlR 2)CH 2-Z,         wherein R 1 , R2 are independently selected from the
   group consisting of H and C 1 _4 alkyl, provided that at least one of R 1 , R2 is other than H; or
 0 (CH 2 )n1-Z0 , wherein n is 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8.
   Preferably, Z' is covalently attached to X0 via amide group.
   Another suitable reversible prodrug linker moiety for aromatic hydroxyl-comprising drugs is
 5 described in WO-A 2011/089214. Accordingly, a preferred polymeric prodrug is given by a
   conjugate D-L, wherein
             D is a biologically active moiety containing an aromatic hydroxyl group; and
 0           L is a non-biologically active linker containing
             i)      a moiety L' represented by formula (XII),
                               R2        0
                       R3
                          RR           -N
                      R3a        2a m  R
                                                    (XII),
25                   wherein the dashed line indicates the attachment of L' to the aromatic hydroxyl
                     group of D by forming a carbamate group and R1, R2, R2a, R3, R3a and m of
                     formula (XII) have the following meaning:
                     R1 is selected from the group consisting of C 1 _4 alkyl, heteroalkyl, C3 _7
30                   cycloalkyl, and
                     R3        R2
                     R         R 2a m

       WO 2014/056915                               105                        PCT/EP2013/070949
                   each R 2, each      R 2 a,  Ri, R3 a are independently selected from hydrogen,
                   substituted or non-substituted linear, branched or cyclic C1 _4 alkyl or
                   heteroalkyl,
 5                 mis2, 3 or4.
           ii)     a moiety L2 , which is a chemical bond or a spacer, and L2 is bound to the
                   polymeric carrier of the polymeric prodrug;
 0                 wherein L' is substituted with one L 2 moiety.
   Optionally, L is further substituted.
   Thus, the polymeric carrier is attached to any one of R1, R2, R2a, R3 or R3 a of formula (XII),
 5 either directly (if L2 is a single chemical bond) or through a spacer moiety (if L2 is a spacer).
   Another suitable reversible prodrug linker moiety for aliphatic amine-comprising drugs is
   described in WO-A 2011/089216. Accordingly, a preferred polymeric prodrug is given by a
   conjugate D-L,
 0
           wherein
           D is an aliphatic amine-comprising biologically active moiety; and
 5         L is a non-biologically active linker containing
           i)      a moiety L' represented by formula (XIII),
                                  4         4a
                                 R   N R3
                         0               3a
                                 N      R2
                                    Y< 2a
                                    XI R
                               R               (XIII),
30
                   wherein the dashed line indicates the attachment of L' to an aliphatic amino
                   group of D by forming an amide bond and wherein X1, R1, R2, R2a, R3, R3a, R4
                   and R4 a of formula (XIII) have the following meaning:

   WO 2014/056915                            106                          PCT/EP2013/070949
             X1 is selected from 0, S and CH-R la
             RI and Ria are independently selected from H, OH, and CH 3 ;
 5           R2, R2 a, R4 and R 4 a are independently selected from H and C 1 _4alkyl;
             R3, R3a are independently selected from H, C 1 _4 alkyl, and R'
             R5 is selected from
 0
               -H
                                                        0
                     OH                              OH
                                                            OH
                      OH
                                                             0
                       SH
                                              OH
                                                       NH 2
                                                     -   -<N       NH
                                                                    2
                                               N
                                                               0
                                                                      NH2
                            S               N                    N_\N2
                                            H                    H    NH.
      ii)    a moiety L2 , which is a chemical bond or a spacer, and L2 is bound to Z, which
15           is the polymeric carrier of the polymeric prodrug;
             wherein L' is substituted with one L2 moiety,
             optionally, L is further substituted.
20

       WO 2014/056915                            107                            PCT/EP2013/070949
   Thus, the polymeric carrier is attached to any one of X , R , R2, R2a, RI, R       a,  R4 or R 4 a of
   formula (XIII), either directly (if L2 is a single chemical bond) or through a spacer moiety (if
   L2 is a spacer).
 5 Preferably, one of the pair R3/R3 a of formula (XIII) is H and the other one is selected from R .
   Preferably, one of R4 /R 4 a of formula (XIII) is H.
   Optionally, one or more of the pairs R 3 /R 3 a, R 4 /R 4 a, R 3/R 4 of formula (XIII) may
 0 independently form one or more cyclic fragments selected from C3 _7 cycloalkyl, 4 to 7
   membered heterocyclyl, or 9 to 11 membered heterobicyclyl.
   Optionally, R3, R3 a, R4 and R4 a of formula (XIII) are further substituted. Suitable substituents
   are alkyl (such as C1-6 alkyl), alkenyl (such as C2 -6 alkenyl), alkynyl (such as C2 -6 alkynyl),
 5 aryl (such as phenyl), heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, heteroaryl (such as aromatic
   4- to 7-membered heterocycle) or halogen moieties.
   Another suitable reversible prodrug linker moiety for aromatic amine-comprising drugs is
   described in WO-A 2011/089215. Accordingly, a preferred polymeric prodrug is given by a
 0 conjugate D-L,
           wherein
           D is an aromatic amine-comprising biologically active moiety; and
 5
           L is a non-biologically active linker containing
           i)       a moiety L' represented by formula (XIV),
                     0       R     3    3a
                                           R4
                                N
                    R          a         4a
30                               0     R       (XIV),
                    wherein the dashed line indicates the attachment of L' to an aromatic amino
                                                                             1 la  2    3    3
                    group of D by forming an amide bond and wherein R1, R,        R , R3, R3a, R4 and
                    R4 a of formula (XIV) have the following meaning:
35

      WO 2014/056915                               108                                PCT/EP2013/070949
                      1   la   2   3    3a4
                   R, Ri, R, R, R        a,  R4 and R4a are independently selected from H and C1 _4
                   alkyl,
                   optionally, any two of R1 , Ria, R 2 , RI, R 3 a,  R4 and R4a may independently form
 5                 one or more cyclic fragments selected from C3 _7 cycloalkyl, 4 to 7 membered
                   heterocyclyl, phenyl, naphthyl, indenyl, indanyl, tetralinyl, or 9 to                  11
                   membered heterobicyclyl,
                   optionally, R1, R   a,   R2, R3, R3a, R4 and      R 4a  are further substituted; suitable
 0                 substituents   are    alkyl,  alkene,   alkine,       aryl,  heteroalkyl,  heteroalkene,
                   heteroalkine, heteroaryl or halogen moieties.
           ii)     a moiety L2 , which is a chemical bond or a spacer, and L2 is bound to Z, which
                   is the polymeric carrier of the polymeric prodrug;
 5
                   wherein L' is substituted with one moiety L2,
                   optionally, L is further substituted.
 0 Suitable substituents are alkyl (such as C1-6 alkyl) , alkenyl (such as C2 -6 alkenyl) , alkynyl
   (such as C2 -6 alkynyl), aryl (such as phenyl), heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl,
   heteroaryl (such as aromatic 4 to 7 membered heterocycle) or halogen moieties.
   Thus, the polymeric carrier is attached to any one of R1, R          a, R2, R, R3a, R4 or R4a of formula
 5 (XIV), either directly (if L2 is a single chemical bond) or through a spacer moiety (if L2 is a
   spacer).
   Preferably, one of R4 or R4a of formula (XIV) is H.
30 Another suitable reversible prodrug linker moiety is described in US patent No 7585837.
   Accordingly, a preferred polymeric prodrug is given by a prodrug conjugate D-L, wherein
           D is a biologically active moiety comprising an amine, carboxyl, phosphate, hydroxyl
           or mercapto group; and
35
           L is a non-biologically active linker containing
           i)      a moiety L' represented by formula (XV):

       WO 2014/056915                            109                           PCT/EP2013/070949
                     R
                               -   R4
                     R
                                            (XV),
                    wherein the dashed line indicates the attachment of L' to a functional group of
                    a drug D, wherein such functional group is selected from amino, carboxyl,
 5                  phosphate, hydroxyl and mercapto; and wherein R1, R2, R3 and R4 of formula
                    (XV) are defined as follows:
                    RI and R2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
                    alkyl, alkoxy, alkoxyalkyl, aryl, alkaryl, aralkyl, halogen, nitro, -SO 3 H,
 0                  SO 2NHR5 , amino, ammonium, carboxyl, P0 3 H 2 , and OP0 3 H 2 ;
                    R 3, R 4, and R5 are independently selected from the group consisting of
                    hydrogen, alkyl, and aryl;
 5          ii)     a moiety L2 , which is a chemical bond or a spacer, and L2 is bound to the
                    polymeric carrier of the polymeric prodrug , and
                    wherein L' is substituted with one L2 moiety.
20 Optionally, L is further substituted.
   Thus, the hydrogel is attached to any one of R1 , R 2 , R3 or R4 of formula (XV), either directly
   (if L2 is a single chemical bond) or through a spacer moiety (if L2 is a spacer).
25 Another suitable reversible prodrug linker moiety is described in WO-A 2002/089789.
   Accordingly, a preferred polymeric prodrug is shown in formula (XVI):

     WO 2014/056915                               110                           PCT/EP2013/070949
                              Y
                  R-L 1             RRY
                             O      R3 R5 Y2
                                                   k X-)yD
                                      4     6
                                    R     R
                                    p
                         Ar
                          Ar
                                    R(XVI),
         wherein D, X, y, Ar, L1 , Y 1 , Y 2 , R1, R2, R3, R4, R , R6 of formula (XVI) are defined as
         follows:
 5
         D is a biologically active moiety;
         L1 is a bifunctional linking group;
 0       Y1 and Y 2 are independently 0, S or NR7 ;
         R1 is the polymeric carrier;
         R2-7  are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C1-6 alkyls,
 5       C3 -12 branched alkyls, C3 _8 cycloalkyls, C1-6 substituted alkyls, C3 _8 substituted
         cycloalkyls, aryls, substituted aryls, aralkyls, C1 -6 heteroalkyls, substituted C1-6
         heteroalkyls, C1-6 alkoxy, phenoxy, and C1-6 heteroalkoxy;
         Ar is a moiety which when included in formula XI forms a multisubstituted aromatic
L0       hydrocarbon or a multi-substituted heterocyclic group;
         Z is either a chemical bond or a moiety that is actively transported into a target cell, a
         hydrophobic moiety, or a combination thereof;
25       y is 0 or 1;
         X is a chemical bond or a moiety that is actively transported into a target cell, a
         hydrophobic moiety, or a combination thereof.
30 Another suitable reversible prodrug linker moiety is described in WO-A 2001/47562.
   Accordingly, a preferred polymeric prodrug is given by formula (XVII):
                                        0
                  z-     L-Ar-O              N-D
                                              H       (XVII),

      WO 2014/056915                            111                           PCT/EP2013/070949
         wherein D, L, z and Ar of formula (XVII) have the following meaning:
          D is an amine-comprising biologically active moiety comprising NH;
 5       L is a covalent linkage, preferably a hydrolytically stable linkage;
         Ar is an aromatic group; and
          z is the polymeric carrier.
 0
   Yet another suitable reversible prodrug linker moiety is described in US patent 7393953 B2.
   Accordingly, a preferred polymeric prodrug is given by formula (XVIII):
          R1--Li-           -D
                                  (XVIII),
         wherein RI, L 1, Y 1, p and D of formula (XVIII) have the following meaning:
 5
         D is a heteroaromatic amine-comprising biologically active moiety connected through
          a heteroaromatic amine group of D to the rest of the sub-structure of formula (XVIII);
         Y1 is 0, S, or NR 2 ;
 0
         p is 0 or 1;
          L1 is a bifunctional linker, such as, for example,-NH(CH 2CH 2O)m(CH 2)mNR 3-,
          -NH(CH 2CH 2 0)mC(O)-, -NH(CR 4R 5)mOC(O)-, -C(O)(CR 4R5 )mNHC(O)(CRR 7)qNR 3 ,
25        -C(O)O(CH 2 )mO-,         -C(O)(CR 4 R5 )mNR 3 -,     -C(O)NH(CH 2CH 2 0)m(CH 2)mNR 3 -,
          -C(O)O-(CH 2CH 2 0)mNR 3-,             -C(O)NH(CR 4 R5)mO-,          -C(O)O(CR4 R)mO,
          -C(O)NH(CH 2 CH 20)m-,
                            Re
                     R4
                                         Ry
                H+5                                 O
                     R5   m              _q
                                                            ,or

     WO 2014/056915                                112                          PCT/EP2013/070949
                             RR
                      R4                    Ry     RP
            -N--               x                -N
               H                \     /+
                     Rs_ m                    _
         R2 , R 3, R 4, R5 , R 7 and R8 are independently selected from the group consisting of
         hydrogen, C1 -6 alkyls, C3-12 branched alkyls, C3 _8 cycloalkyls, C1-6 substituted alkyls,
 5       C3 _8 substituted cycloalkyls, aryls, substituted aryls, aralkyls, C1-6 heteroalkyls,
         substituted C1 _6 heteroalkyls, C1-6 alkoxy, phenoxy and C1-6 heteroalkoxy;
         R6 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C1-6 alkyls, C3-12 branched alkyls,
         C3 _8 cycloalkyls, C1 -6 substituted alkyls, C3 _8 substituted cycloalkyls, aryls, substituted
 0       aryls, aralkyls, C1-6 heteroalkyls, substituted C1-6 heteroalkyls, C1 -6 alkoxy, phenoxy
         and C1 -6 heteroalkoxy, NO 2 , haloalkyl and halogen; and
         m and q are selected independently from each other and each is a positive integer.
 5 Another preferred polymeric prodrug is given by formula (XIX):
                                    4       2
                                  R       R
                   y-Q-           - --      -O-D
                                  R     n R
                                                     (XIX),
         wherein D, R1, R2, R3, R4, Y' and n of formula (XIX) have the following meaning:
20       D is a carboxyl-comprising biologically active moiety comprising 0 of formula (XIX),
         R1 is selected from the group of unsubstituted alkyl; substituted alkyl; unsubstituted
         phenyl; substituted phenyl; unsubstituted naphthyl; substituted naphthyl; unsubstituted
         indenyl; substituted indenyl; unsubstituted indanyl; substituted indanyl; unsubstituted
25       tetralinyl;   substituted tetralinyl; unsubstituted C3 _10 cycloalkyl;      substituted C3 _10
         cycloalkyl; unsubstituted 4- to 7-membered heterocyclyl; substituted 4- to 7
         membered        heterocyclyl; unsubstituted 9- to        11-membered    heterobicyclyl;    and
         substituted 9- to 1 1-membered heterobicyclyl;,
30       R2 is selected from H, unsubstituted alkyl, and substituted alkyl;

         WO 2014/056915                           113                            PCT/EP2013/070949
             R' and R4 are independently selected from the group consisting of H, unsubstituted
             alkyl, and substituted alkyl;
             Q is a spacer moiety;
 5
             n is 0 or 1,
             optionally, R1 and R3 are joined together with the atoms to which they are attached to
             form a ring A,
 0
             A is selected from the group consisting of C3 _10 cycloalkyl; 4- to 7-membered aliphatic
             heterocyclyl;   and 9- to      11 -membered aliphatic    heterobicyclyl, wherein A is
             unsubstituted or substituted;
 5           Y' is the polymeric carrier.
   Preferably, R1 of formula (XIX) is C 1-6 alkyl or substituted C 1-6 alkyl, more preferably C 1 _4
   alkyl or substituted C 1 _4 alkyl.
 0 More preferably, R1 of formula (XIX) is selected from methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n
   butyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, t-butyl, and benzyl.
   Preferably, R 2 of formula (XIX) is H.
 5 Preferably, R3 of formula (XIX) is H, C1 -6 alkyl or substituted C1-6 alkyl, more preferably C 1 _4
   alkyl or substituted C 1 _4 alkyl. More preferably, R3 is selected from methyl, ethyl, n-propyl,
   isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, t-butyl, and benzyl.
   More preferably, R3 of formula (XIX) is H.
30
   Preferably, R4 of formula (XIX) is s H, C 1-6 alkyl or substituted C1-6 alkyl, more preferably
   C 1 _4 alkyl or substituted C 1 _4 alkyl. More preferably, R4 is selected from methyl, ethyl, n
   propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, t-butyl, and benzyl.
35 More preferably, R4 of formula (XIX) is H.
   In another preferred embodiment, R1 and R3 of formula (XIX) are joined together with the
   atoms to which they are attached to form a ring A, wherein A is selected from the group
   consisting of cyclopropane, cyclobutane, cyclopentane, cyclohexane, and cycloheptane.

       WO 2014/056915                             114                          PCT/EP2013/070949
   Another preferred polymeric prodrug is given by formula (XX):
               Y 1-W-O-D
 5         wherein D, Y 1 and W of formula (XX) have the following meaning:
           D is a carboxyl-comprising biologically active moiety comprising 0 of formula (XX),
           W is selected from linear C1 _1 5 alkyl; and
 0
           Y1 is the polymeric carrier of the polymeric prodrug.
   The polymeric prodrug comprises one or more biologically active moieties which are coupled
   to the polymeric carrier through reversible prodrug linkers. In one embodiment, the
 5 biologically active moieties are released within a joint from the polymeric prodrug as drug
   molecules.
   In a preferred embodiment, the one or more biologically active moieties for the polymeric
 0 prodrugs are preferably selected from the group consisting of (i) non-steroidal anti
   inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), (ii) disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs), (iii)
   corticosteroids and (iv) biologics (e.g. antibodies, fragments thereof and fusion proteins,
   binding proteins, peptides and recombinant proteins). Anybody skilled in the art will
   recognize compounds belonging to each of these categories, and as such drugs belonging to
 5 these categories are incorporated herein as suitable for the current invention.
   More preferably, the one or more biologically active moieties for the polymeric prodrugs are
   preferably selected from the group consisting of (i) non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
   (NSAIDs), (ii) disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs), (iii) corticosteroids and
30 (iv) biologics (e.g. antibodies, fragments thereof and fusion proteins, and recombinant
   proteins). Anybody skilled in the art will recognize compounds belonging to each of these
   categories, and as such drugs belonging to these categories are incorporated herein as suitable
   for the current invention.
35 In a further preferred embodiment, the one or more biologically active moieties for the
   polymeric prodrugs are selected from the group consisting of indomethacin; non-steroidal
   anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin, ibuprofen, and other propionic acid
   derivatives (such as alminoprofen, benoxaprofen, bucloxic            acid, carprofen, fenbufen,
   fenoprofen, fluprofen, flurbiprofen, indoprofen, ketoprofen, miroprofen, naproxen, oxaprozin,

       WO 2014/056915                           115                            PCT/EP2013/070949
   pirprofen, pranoprofen, suprofen, tiaprofenic acid, and tioxaprofen); acetic acid derivatives
   (such as indomethacin, acemetacin, alclofenac, clidanac, diclofenac, fenclofenac, fenclozic
   acid,   fentiazac, fuirofenac,   ibufenac, isoxepac, oxpinac, sulindac, tiopinac, tolmetin,
   zidometacin,     and  zomepirac);    fenamic   acid   derivatives   (such  as flufenamic acid,
 5 meclofenamic acid, mefenamic acid, niflumic acid and tolfenamic acid); biphenylcarboxylic
   acid derivatives (such as diflunisal and flufenisal); oxicams (such as isoxicam, piroxicam,
   sudoxicam and tenoxican); salicylates (such as acetyl salicylic acid, sulfasalazine) and the
   pyrazolones (such as apazone, bezpiperylon, feprazone, mofebutazone, oxyphenbutazone,
   phenylbutazone) and opioid analgesics (such as such as fentanyl, morphine, sufentanil,
 0 hydromorphone, methadone, oxycodone, bupremorphine); methotrexate, cyclooxygenase-2
   (COX-2) inhibitors (such as celecoxib), anti-TNF agents (such as adalimumab, certolizumab
   pegol, etanercept, golimumab, infliximab); anti-IL-1,-6,-12, -15, -18 and -21 and -23 agents
   (such as anakinra, Tocilizumab); nerve growth factor inhibitors, nerve growth factor receptor
   (NGFR) antagonists, RN64, REGN475, fasinumab, tanezumab, MED1578, ABT110, anti
 5 NGF antibodies and antibody derivatives,           and anti-NGFR antibodies        and antibody
   derivatives; TrkA antagonists (such as ARRY-470, FX007, ARRY 872) glucocorticoids or
   steroids (such as cortisone, prednisolone,       flurometholone, dexamethasone, medrysone,
   loteprednol, fluazacort, hydrocortisone, prednisone, betamethasone, clobetasone, prednisone,
   methylpredniso lone, riamcinolone hexacatonide, paramethasone acetate, diflorasone,
 0 fluocinonide, fluocinolone, triamcinolone, derivatives thereof, and mixtures thereof); local
   analgesics (such as lidocaine, bupivacaine, procaine); leflunomide; immunomodulatory agents
   (such as cyclosporine, tacrolimus, azathioprine, cyclophosphamide, minocycline, rituximab);
   gold compounds; D-penicillamine; sulfasalazine; chloroquine derivatives (including but not
   limited to hydroxychloroquine);       CD20 directed antibodies, such as ocrelizumab          and
 5 ofatumumab;      RANKL inhibitors, such as denosumab; TRU-015; INCB018424; VX-V02;
   bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) (such as BMP-I, BMP-2, BMP-3, BMP-4, BMP-5, BMP
   6, BMP-7, BMP-8, BMP-9, BMP-IO, BMP-II, BMP-12, BMP-13, BMP-14, BMP-15, BMP
   16, BMP-17, BMP-18, BMP-19, BMP-20, BMP-21); FGF (fibroblast growth factors, such as
   FGFI FGF2, FGF4, FGF7, FGFIO, FGFI9, FGF21, FGF23); TGF-P (transforming growth
30 factor- 3, such as TGF 1); growth hormone; IGF (insulin-like growth factor, such as IGF-I);
   NELL peptides; VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor); PDGF (platelet-derived growth
   factor); PTH (parathyroid hormone)/PTHrp (PTHregulated protein); oxysterols; lipophilic
   statins, statins   (such   as atorvastatin,  cerivastatin,  fluvastatin, lovastatin, mevastatin,
   pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, simvastatin); growth/differentiation factor 5 (GDF5);
35 LIM mineralization proteins (LMPS); matrix metalloproteinases; aggrecanases (ADAMTSs);
   cysteine-dependent     cathepsins; growth factors; and cell adhesion molecules (CAMs);
   bisphosphonates(s) (including both N-containing and non-N-containing bisphosphonates(s),
   selected from the group comprising: pamidronate, neridronate, olpadronate, alendronate,

       WO 2014/056915                           116                            PCT/EP2013/070949
   ibandronate, risedronate, and zoledronate. Non-containing bisphosphonates are for example
   etidronate, clodronate, and tiludronate).
   More preferably, the one or more biologically active moieties for the polymeric prodrugs are
 5 selected from the group consisting of indomethacin; non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
   (NSAIDs) such as aspirin, ibuprofen, and other propionic acid derivatives (such as
   alminoprofen, benoxaprofen, bucloxic acid, carprofen, fenbufen, fenoprofen, fluprofen,
   flurbiprofen, indoprofen, ketoprofen, miroprofen, naproxen, oxaprozin, pirprofen,
   pranoprofen, suprofen, tiaprofenic acid, and tioxaprofen); acetic acid derivatives (such as
 0 indomethacin, acemetacin, alclofenac, clidanac, diclofenac, fenclofenac, fenclozic acid,
   fentiazac, fuirofenac, ibufenac, isoxepac, oxpinac, sulindac, tiopinac, tolmetin, zidometacin,
   and zomepirac); fenamic acid derivatives (such as flufenamic acid, meclofenamic acid,
   mefenamic acid, niflumic acid and tolfenamic acid); biphenylcarboxylic acid derivatives
   (such as diflunisal and flufenisal); oxicams (such as isoxicam, piroxicam, sudoxicam and
 5 tenoxican); salicylates (such as acetyl salicylic acid, sulfasalazine) and the pyrazolones (such
   as apazone, bezpiperylon, feprazone, mofebutazone, oxyphenbutazone, phenylbutazone) and
   opioid analgesics (such as such as fentanyl, morphine, sufentanil, hydromorphone,
   methadone, oxycodone, bupremorphine); methotrexate, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors
   (such as celecoxib), anti-TNF agents (such as adalimumab, certolizumab pegol, etanercept,
 0 golimumab, infliximab); anti-IL-1,-6,-12, -15, -18 and -21 and -23 agents (such as anakinra,
   Tocilizumab); glucocorticoids or steroids (such as cortisone, prednisolone, flurometholone,
   dexamethasone,      medrysone,      loteprednol,    fluazacort,    hydrocortisone, prednisone,
   betamethasone, clobetasone, prednisone, methylpredniso lone, riamcinolone hexacatonide,
   paramethasone acetate, diflorasone, fluocinonide, fluocinolone, triamcinolone, derivatives
 5 thereof, and mixtures thereof); local analgesics (such as lidocaine, bupivacaine, procaine);
   leflunomide; immunomodulatory agents (such as cyclosporine, tacrolimus, azathioprine,
   cyclophosphamide,       minocycline,     rituximab);    gold compounds;         D-penicillamine;
   sulfasalazine; chloroquine derivatives; ocrelizumab; ofatumumab; denosumab; TRU-015;
   INCBO 18424; VX-V02; bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) (such as BMP-I, BMP-2, BMP
30 3, BMP-4, BMP-5, BMP-6, BMP-7, BMP-8, BMP-9, BMP-IO, BMP-II, BMP-12, BMP-13,
   BMP-14, BMP-15, BMP-16, BMP-17, BMP-18, BMP-19, BMP-20, BMP-21); FGF
   (fibroblast growth factors, such as FGFI FGF2, FGF4, FGF7, FGFIO, FGFI9, FGF21,
   FGF23); TGF-P (transforming growth factor- 3, such as TGF 1); growth hormone; IGF
   (insulin-like growth factor, such as IGF-I); NELL peptides; VEGF (vascular endothelial
35 growth factor); PDGF (platelet-derived growth factor); PTH (parathyroid hormone)/PTHrp
   (PTHregulated protein); oxysterols; lipophilic statins; growth/differentiation factor 5 (GDF5);
   LIM mineralization proteins (LMPS); matrix metalloproteinases; aggrecanases (ADAMTSs);
   cysteine-dependent cathepsins; growth factors; and cell adhesion molecules (CAMs).

       WO 2014/056915                            117                             PCT/EP2013/070949
   The one or more biologically active moieties for the polymeric prodrugs may also be a natural
   product, isolated or synthesized, and derivatives thereof, including anthraquinones and their
   prodrugs such as rhein, diacerein, argirein, and aloe-emodin.
 5 The one or more biologically active moieties for the polymeric prodrugs may also be a P38
   Mitogen     activated  protein (MAP)       kinase   inhibitors, such   as   FX-005,    ARRY-797,
   doramapimod,      pamapimod, SB203580,         SB202190,     LY2228820,     VX-702,    PH-797804,
   TAK715,      VX-745,    SC10469,     ORG48762-0,      pyrazolopyridine    derivatives, R1503, 5
   aminopyrazol-4-yl ketones, and AMG-548; an inhibitor of Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)
 0 activity,      such   as  ALS      1-0635,    AC-RCGVPD-NH2          peptide,    N-substituted  4
   arylsulonylpiperidine-4-hydroxamic acids, 4-aminoprolines, 6-benzyl-5,7-dioxo-6,7-dihydro
   5H-thiazolo[3,2-c]pyrimidine-2-carboxylic       acid benzyl esters, 4-[1-methyl-2,4-dioxo-6-(3
   phenyl-prop-1-ynyl)-1,4-dihydro-2H-quinazolin-3-ylmethyl]-benzoic          acids, and galardin; a
   Tyrosine kinase inhibitor, such as genistein, herbimycin A, 4,5-dianilinophthalimide (DAPH),
 5 tyrphostin AG 82, tyrphostin AG 556, anthrapyrazolones, imatinib, gefitinib, erlotinib,
   sunitinib, polyoxypregane glycoside (PPG), and sorafenib.
   In another preferred embodiment, the one or more biologically active moieties for the
   polymeric prodrugs is a diagnostic agent, such as a contrast agent. Such agents are known in
 0 the art.
   The polymeric prodrug or pharmaceutical composition comprising a polymeric prodrug may
   contain one or more biological active moieties. The release of the biological active moieties
   may occur with the same or different half-lives.
 5
   In a particularly preferred embodiment, the polymeric prodrug comprises dexamethasone as
   biologically active moiety, i.e. the polymeric prodrug is a polymeric dexamethasone prodrug.
   Preferably, the dexamethasone prodrug comprises a hydrogel, more preferably, a PEG-based
30 hydrogel. Preferred embodiments of a PEG-based hydrogel are as described above.
   Preferably, the dexamethasone prodrug comprises a reversible prodrug linker moiety of
   formula (IX).
35 Even more preferably, the dexamethasone prodrug is of formula (IXc):

       WO 2014/056915                          118                           PCT/EP2013/070949
                                           0
                                                                        H
                                          HH
    OA
                                                                                       (IXc),
   wherein
   n is 2.
 5
   In a particularly preferred embodiment, the polymeric prodrug comprises IL-Ira as
   biologically active moiety, i.e. the polymeric prodrug is a polymeric IL-Ira prodrug.
   Preferably, the IL-Ira prodrug comprises a hydrogel, more preferably, a PEG-based hydrogel.
 0 Preferred embodiments of a PEG-based hydrogel are as described above.
   Preferably, the IL-Ira prodrug comprises a reversible prodrug linker moiety of formula (VII).
   Preferably, the reversible prodrug linker of formula (VII) is connected to the PEG-based
 5 hydrogel through a spacer moiety. Preferably, the spacer moiety has a molecular weight in the
   range of from 14 g/mol to 750 g/mol.
   Preferably, the spacer moiety is attached to the PEG-based hydrogel via a terminal group
   selected from
                   0               0
         4'       NON                         S
               0                        0
20                       ;and
   In case the spacer moiety has such terminal group it is furthermore preferred that the spacer
   moiety has a molecular weight in the range of from 14 g/mol to 500 g/mol calculated without
   such terminal group.
   Most preferably the IL-Ira prodrug is represented by formula (VIIa) or (VIIb):

       WO 2014/056915                               119                             PCT/EP2013/070949
                                PEG-based hydrogel
                                  12
                                SP O
                          H*       NH     O
          R3a              I
                R                              D
                    13,
                R              0                        (VIIa),
                                  PEG-based hydrogel
                                    12
                                  SP    0
              R 3a           H       NR10b0
                             H*      NR      0
                                 0
                                                          (VIIb),
          wherein
          D is an IL-Ira moiety which is connected to the rest of the molecule through an amine
 5        functional group of IL-Ira by forming an amide linkage;
          R3, R3 and R1Ob are independently of each other selected from H and C1 -6 alkyl; and
          SP2 is a spacer moiety.
   Preferably,   R10b of formula (VIIb) is methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl or tert
 0 butyl. More preferably,      R10b  of formula (VIIb) is methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl. Even
   more preferably, R10b of formula (VIIb) is methyl or ethyl and most preferably,               R10b of
   formula (VIIb) is methyl.
   The polymeric prodrug or pharmaceutical composition comprising a polymeric prodrug may
15 be used in the prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment of multiple diseases of the joint.
   Diseases of the joint which can be prevented, diagnosed and/or treated with the present
   invention     include   (ICD     code    in   parenthesis):  infectious   arthropathies (MOO-M03),
   inflammatory polyarthropathies (M05-M14), arthrosis (M15-M19), other joint disorders
20 (M20-M25), and systemic connective tissue disorders (M30-M36), dorsopathies (M40-M54),
   soft tissue disorders (M60-M79), osteopathies and chondropathies (M80-M94).
   Therefore, in one embodiment, the present invention relates to polymeric prodrug or
   pharmaceutical composition for use in the prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment of a disease
25 of the joint, wherein the disease of the joint is selected from infectious arthropathies (MOO
   M03), inflammatory polyarthropathies             (M05-M14),     arthrosis   (M15-Mi9), other joint

       WO 2014/056915                           120                          PCT/EP2013/070949
   disorders (M20-M25), and systemic connective tissue disorders (M30-M36), dorsopathies
   (M40-M54), soft tissue disorders (M60-M79), osteopathies and chondropathies (M80-M94).
   The diseases of the joint also include pain and inflammation following invasive procedures,
   such as intra-articular injections, synovial aspirations, synovectomy, surgery and arthroscopic
 5 procedures.
   Preferred diseases of the joint are arthritis and related disorders which are in particular
   selected from the group of diseases consisting of osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, Achilles
   tendinitis, Achondroplasia, Acromegalic arthropathy, Adhesive capsulitis, Adult onset Still's
 0 disease, Ankylosing spondylitis, Anserine bursitis, Avascular necrosis, Behcet's syndrome,
   Bicipital tendonitis, Blount's disease, Brucellar spondylitis, Bursitis, Calcaneal bursitis,
   Calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPPD), Crystal deposition disease, Caplan's syndrome,
   Carpal tunnel syndrome, Chondrocalcinosis, Chondromalacia patellae, Chronic synovitis,
   Chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis, Churg-Strauss syndrome, Cogan's syndrome,
 5 Corticosteroid-induced      osteoporosis, Costosternal       syndrome, CREST syndrome,
   Cryoglobulinemia, Degenerative joint disease, Dermatomyositis, Diabetic finger sclerosis,
   Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH), Discitis, Discoid lupus erythematosus, Drug
   induced lupus, Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, Dupuytren's contracture, Ehlers-Danlos
   syndrome, Enteropathic arthritis, Epicondylitis, Erosive inflammatory osteoarthritis, Exercise
 0 induced compartment syndrome, Fabry's disease, Familial Mediterranean fever, Farber's
   lipogranulomatosis, Felty's syndrome, Fibromyalgia, Fifth's disease, Flat feet, Foreign body
   synovitis, Freiberg's disease, Fungal arthritis, Gaucher's disease, Giant cell arteritis,
   Gonococcal arthritis, Goodpasture's syndrome, Gout, Granulomatous arteritis, Hemarthrosis,
   Hemochromatosis, Henoch-Schonlein purpura, Hepatitis B surface antigen disease, Hip
 5 dysplasia, Hurler syndrome, Hypermobility syndrome, Hypersensitivity vasculitis,
   Hypertrophic osteoarthropathy, Immune complex disease, Impingement syndrome, Jaccoud's
   arthropathy, Juvenile ankylosing spondylitis, Juvenile dermatomyositis, Juvenile rheumatoid
   arthritis, Kawasaki disease, Kienbock's disease, Legg-Calve-Perthes disease, Lesch-Nyhan
   syndrome, Linear scleroderma, Lipoid dermatoarthritis, Lofgren's syndrome, Lyme disease,
30 Malignant synovioma, Marfan's syndrome, Medial plica syndrome, Metastatic carcinomatous
   arthritis, Mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD), Mixed cryoglobulinemia,
   Mucopolysaccharidosis, Multicentric reticulohistiocytosis, Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia,
   Mycoplasmal arthritis, Myofascial pain syndrome, Neonatal lupus, Neuropathic arthropathy,
   Nodular panniculitis, Ochronosis, Olecranon bursitis, Osgood-Schlatter's disease,
35 Osteoarthritis, Osteochondromatosis, Osteogenesis imperfecta, Osteomalacia, Osteomyelitis,
   Osteonecrosis, Osteoporosis, Overlap syndrome, Pachydermoperiostosis Paget's disease of
   bone, Palindromic rheumatism, Patellofemoral pain syndrome, Pellegrini-Stieda syndrome,
   Pigmented villonodular synovitis, Piriformis syndrome, Plantar fasciitis, Polyarteritis nodosa,
   Polymyalgia rheumatica, Polymyositis, Popliteal cysts, Posterior tibial tendonitis, Pott's

       WO 2014/056915                            121                              PCT/EP2013/070949
   disease, Prepatellar bursitis, Prosthetic joint infection, Pseudoxanthoma elasticum, Psoriatic
   arthritis,  Raynaud's phenomenon, Reactive arthritis/Reiter's syndrome, Reflex sympathetic
   dystrophy syndrome, Relapsing polychondritis, Retrocalcaneal bursitis, Rheumatic fever,
   Rheumatoid arthritis, Rheumatoid vasculitis, Rotator cuff tendonitis, Sacroiliitis, Salmonella
 5 osteomyelitis, Sarcoidosis, Saturnine gout, Scheuermann's osteochondritis, Scleroderma,
    Septic arthritis, Seronegative arthritis, Shigella arthritis, Shoulder-hand syndrome, Sickle cell
   arthropathy,     Sjogren's syndrome,     Slipped capital femoral       epiphysis,  Spinal  stenosis,
    Spondylolysis, Staphylococcus arthritis, Stickler syndrome, Subacute cutaneous lupus,
    Sweet's syndrome, Sydenham's chorea, Syphilitic arthritis, Systemic lupus erythematosus
 0 (SLE), Takayasu's arteritis, Tarsal tunnel syndrome, Tennis elbow, Tietse's syndrome,
   Transient osteoporosis, Traumatic arthritis, Trochanteric bursitis, Tuberculosis arthritis,
   Arthritis of Ulcerative       colitis, Undifferentiated    connective   tissue syndrome (UCTS),
   Urticarial vasculitis, Viral arthritis, Wegener's granulomatosis, Whipple's disease, Wilson's
   disease, and Yersinial arthritis.
 5
   More preferred diseases of the joint are osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.
   In one embodiment the pharmaceutical composition in addition to the polymeric prodrug
   comprises other biologically active moieties, either in their free form or as prodrugs.
 0
   In one embodiment, the present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising
   a polymeric prodrug of the present invention, and optionally one or more pharmaceutically
   acceptable excipients, for use in the prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment of a disease of the
   joint.
 5
   In another embodiment, the present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition
   comprising a polymeric prodrug of the present invention, and optionally one or more
   pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.
30 Excipients may be categorized as buffering agents, isotonicity modifiers, preservatives,
   stabilizers, anti-adsorption agents, oxidation protection agents, viscosifiers/viscosity
   enhancing agents, or other auxiliary agents. In some cases, these ingredients may have dual or
   triple functions. The pharmaceutical composition may contain one or more excipients,
   selected from the groups consisting of:
35
   (i)      Buffering agents: physiologically tolerated buffers to maintain pH in a desired range,
            such as sodium phosphate, bicarbonate, succinate, histidine, citrate and acetate,
            sulphate, nitrate, chloride, pyruvate. Antacids such as Mg(OH) 2 or ZnCO 3 may be also

        WO 2014/056915                           122                           PCT/EP2013/070949
          used. Buffering capacity may be adjusted to match the conditions most sensitive to pH
           stability;
   (ii)   Isotonicity modifiers: to minimize pain that can result from cell damage due to
 5         osmotic pressure differences at the injection depot. Glycerin and sodium chloride are
           examples. Effective concentrations can be determined by osmometry using an
           assumed osmolality of 285-315 mOsmol/kg for serum;
   (iii)  Preservatives and/or antimicrobials: multidose parenteral preparations require the
 0         addition of preservatives at a sufficient concentration to minimize risk of patients
          becoming infected upon injection and corresponding regulatory requirements have
          been established. Typical preservatives include m-cresol, phenol, methylparaben,
           ethylparaben, propylparaben,         butylparaben, chlorobutanol,      benzyl alcohol,
          phenylmercuric nitrate, thimerosol, sorbic acid, potassium sorbate, benzoic acid,
 5         chlorocresol, and benzalkonium chloride;
   (iv)    Stabilizers: Stabilization is achieved by strengthening of the protein-stabilizing forces,
          by destabilization of the denatured state, or by direct binding of excipients to the
          protein. Stabilizers may be amino acids such as alanine, arginine, aspartic acid,
 0         glycine, histidine, lysine, proline, sugars such as glucose, sucrose, trehalose, polyols
           such as glycerol, mannitol, sorbitol, salts such as potassium phosphate, sodium
           sulphate, chelating agents such as EDTA, hexaphosphate, ligands such as divalent
          metal ions (zinc, calcium, etc.), other salts or organic molecules such as phenolic
           derivatives. In addition, oligomers or polymers such as cyclodextrins, dextran,
 5         dendrimers, PEG or PVP or protamine or HSA may be used;
   (v)    Anti-adsorption agents: Mainly ionic or non-ionic surfactants or other proteins or
           soluble polymers are used to coat or adsorb competitively to the inner surface of the
           composition's or composition's container. Suitable surfactants are e.g., alkyl sulfates,
30         such as ammonium lauryl sulfate and sodium lauryl sulfate; alkyl ether sulfates, such
           as sodium laureth sulfate and sodium myreth sulfate; sulfonates such as dioctyl sodium
           sulfosuccinates, perfluorooctanesulfonates, perfluorobutanesulfonates, alkyl benzene
           sulfonates; phosphates, such as alkyl aryl ether phosphates and alkyl ether phosphates;
           carboxylates, such as fatty acid salts (soaps) or sodium stearate, sodium lauroyl
35         sarcosinate,   perfluorononanoate,     perfluorooctanoate;  octenidine   dihydrochloride;
           quaternary ammonium cations such as cetyl trimethylammonium bromide, cetyl
          trimethylammonium chloride, cetylpyridinium chloride, polyethoxylated tallow amine,
          benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride, 5-bromo-5-nitor-1,3-dioxane,
           dimethyldioctadecylammonium         chloride,  dioctadecyldimethylammonium       bromide;

       WO 2014/056915                           123                             PCT/EP2013/070949
          zwitterionics, such as 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate,
          cocamidopropyl hydroxysultaine, amino acids, imino acids, cocamidopropyl betaine,
          lecithin; fatty alcohols, such as cetyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, cetostearyl alcohol, oleyl
          alcohol;    polyoxyethylene    glycol    alkyl  ethers,   such   as   octaethylene    glycol
 5        monododecyl ether, pentaethylene glycol monododecyl ether; polyoxypropylene
          glycol alkyl ethers; glucoside alkyl ethers, such as decyl glucoside, lauryl glucoside,
          octyl glucoside; polyoxyethylene glycol octylphenol ethers such as Triton X-100;
          polyoxyethylene glycol alkylphenol ethers such as nonoxynol-9; glycerol alkyl esters
          such as glyceryl laurate; polyoxyethylene glycol sorbitan alkyl esters such as
 0        polysorbates; sorbitan alkyl esters; cocamide MEA and cocamide DEA; dodecyl
          dimethylamine oxide; block copolymers of polyethylene glycol and polypropylene
          glycol, such as poloxamers (Pluronic F-68), PEG dodecyl ether (Brij 35), polysorbate
          20 and 80; other anti-absorption agents are dextran, polyethylene glycol, PEG
          polyhistidine, BSA and HSA and gelatines. Chosen concentration and type of
 5        excipient depends on the effect to be avoided but typically a monolayer of surfactant is
          formed at the interface just above the CMC value;
   (vi)   Lyo-    and/or cryoprotectants:    During freeze- or spray drying, excipients may
          counteract the destabilizing effects caused by hydrogen bond breaking and water
 0        removal. For this purpose sugars and polyols may be used but corresponding positive
          effects have also been observed for surfactants, amino acids, non-aqueous solvents,
          and other peptides. Trehalose is particulary efficient at reducing moisture-induced
          aggregation and also improves thermal stability potentially caused by exposure of
          protein hydrophobic groups to water. Mannitol and sucrose may also be used, either as
 5        sole lyo/cryoprotectant or in combination with each other where higher ratios of
          mannitol:sucrose are known to enhance physical stability of a lyophilized cake.
          Mannitol may also be combined with trehalose. Trehalose may also be combined with
          sorbitol or sorbitol used as the sole protectant. Starch or starch derivatives may also be
          used;
30
   (vii)  Oxidation protection agents: antioxidants such as ascorbic acid, ectoine, methionine,
          glutathione, monothioglycerol, morin, polyethylenimine (PEI), propyl gallate, vitamin
          E, chelating agents such aus citric acid, EDTA, hexaphosphate, thioglycolic acid;
35 (viii) Spreading or diffusing agent: modifies the permeability of connective tissue through
          the hydrolysis of components of the extracellular matrix in the intrastitial space such
          as but not limited to hyaluronic acid, a polysaccharide found in the intercellular space
          of connective tissue. A spreading agent such as but not limited to hyaluronidase

        WO 2014/056915                         124                           PCT/EP2013/070949
           temporarily decreases the viscosity of the extracellular matrix and promotes diffusion
            of injected drugs;
   (ix)     Other auxiliary agents: such as wetting agents, viscosity modifiers, antibiotics,
 5          hyaluronidase. Acids and bases such as hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide are
            auxiliary agents necessary for pH adjustment during manufacture;
   The pharmaceutical composition in either dry or liquid form may be provided as a single or
   multiple dose pharmaceutical composition.
 0
   In one embodiment of the present invention, the liquid or dry pharmaceutical composition is
   provided as a single dose, meaning that the container in which it is supplied contains one
   pharmaceutical dose.
 5 Alternatively, the liquid or dry pharmaceutical composition is a multiple dose pharmaceutical
   composition, meaning that the container in which it is supplied contains more than one
   therapeutic dose, i.e., a multiple dose composition contains at least 2 doses. Such multiple
   dose pharmaceutical composition can either be used for different patients in need thereof or
   can be used for one patient, wherein the remaining doses are stored after the application of the
 0 first dose until needed.
   In another aspect of the present invention the pharmaceutical composition is in a container.
   Suitable containers for liquid or dry pharmaceutical compositions are, for example, syringes,
   vials, vials with stopper and seal, ampoules, and cartridges. In particular, the liquid or dry
 5 pharmaceutical composition is provided in a syringe. If the pharmaceutical composition is a
   dry pharmaceutical composition the container preferably is a dual-chamber syringe. In such
   embodiment, said dry pharmaceutical composition is provided in a first chamber of the dual
   chamber syringe and reconstitution solution is provided in the second chamber of the dual
   chamber syringe.
30
   In one embodiment, the present invention relates to a container comprising the polymeric
   prodrug or pharmaceutical composition of the present invention, wherein the container is
   suited for engagement with an injection device, for use in the prevention, diagnosis and/or
   treatment of a disease of the joint.
35
   In another embodiment, the present invention relates to a container comprising the polymeric
   prodrug or pharmaceutical composition of the present invention, wherein the container is
   suited for engagement with an injection device.

        WO 2014/056915                          125                           PCT/EP2013/070949
   Prior to applying the dry pharmaceutical composition to a patient in need thereof, the dry
   composition is reconstituted. Reconstitution can take place in the container in which the dry
   composition is provided, such as in a vial, syringe, dual-chamber syringe, ampoule, and
   cartridge. Reconstitution is done by adding a predefined amount of reconstitution solution to
 5 the dry composition. Reconstitution solutions are sterile liquids, such as water or buffer,
   which may contain further additives, such as preservatives and/or antimicrobials, such as, for
   example, benzylalcohol and cresol. Preferably, the reconstitution solution is sterile water.
   When a dry pharmaceutical composition is reconstituted, it is referred to as a "reconstituted
   pharmaceutical composition" or "reconstituted pharmaceutical composition" or "reconstituted
 0 composition".
   An additional aspect of the present invention relates to the method of administration of a
   reconstituted or liquid pharmaceutical composition comprising a polymeric prodrug for use in
   the prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment a disease of the joint of the present invention.
 5 Preferably, the pharmaceutical composition is administered via intraarticular injection.
   A further aspect is a method of preparing a reconstituted pharmaceutical composition
   comprising a polymeric prodrug for use in the prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment of a
   disease of the joint, the method comprising the step of
 0
                   contacting the dry pharmaceutical composition with a reconstitution solution.
   Another aspect is a reconstituted pharmaceutical composition comprising a polymeric prodrug
   for use in the treatment, diagnosis and/or prevention a disease of the joint of the present
 5 invention, and optionally one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.
   In case of diagnosis, the biologically active moiety is preferably a moiety which comprises at
   least one label, e.g. a fluorescent, phosphorescent, luminescent or radioactive label.
30 Another aspect of the present invention is the method of manufacturing a dry pharmaceutical
   composition comprising a polymeric prodrug for use in the prevention, diagnosis and/or
   treatment of a disease of the joint. In one embodiment, such dry pharmaceutical composition
   is made by
     (i)   admixing the polymeric prodrug with optionally one or more excipients,
35   (ii)  transferring amounts equivalent to single or multiple doses into a suitable container,
     (iii) drying the pharmaceutical composition in said container, and
     (iv)  sealing the container.
   Suitable containers are vials, syringes, dual-chamber syringes, ampoules, and cartridges.

       WO 2014/056915                           126                          PCT/EP2013/070949
   Another aspect of the present invention is a kit of parts.
   If the injection device is simply a hypodermic syringe then the kit may comprise the syringe,
   a needle and a container comprising dry pharmaceutical composition for use with the syringe
 5 and a second container comprising the reconstitution solution.
   If the pharmaceutical composition is a liquid pharmaceutical composition then the kit may
   comprise the syringe, a needle and a container comprising the liquid pharmaceutical
   composition for use with the syringe.
 0
   Another aspect of the present invention is the pharmaceutical composition for use in the
   prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment of a disease of the joint contained in a container suited
   for engagement with an injection device.
 5 In a preferred embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is in the
   form of an injection, in particular a syringe.
   In more preferred embodiments, the injection device is other than a simple hypodermic
   syringe and so the separate container with reconstituted or liquid pharmaceutical composition
 0 is adapted to engage with the injection device such that in use the liquid pharmaceutical
   composition in the container is in fluid connection with the outlet of the injection device.
   Examples of injection devices include but are not limited to hypodermic syringes and pen
   injector devices. Particularly preferred injection devices are the pen injectors in which case
   the container is a cartridge, preferably a disposable cartridge. Optionally, the kit of parts
 5 comprises a safety device for the needle which can be used to cap or cover the needle after
   use to prevent injury.
   A preferred kit of parts comprises a needle and a container containing the pharmaceutical
   composition and optionally further containing a reconstitution solution, the container being
30 adapted for use with the needle. Preferably, the container is a dual-chamber syringe.
   Another aspect of the present invention is a medical device comprising at least one polymeric
   prodrug or pharmaceutical composition of the present invention. Preferably, such medical
   device is a syringe with a needle, more preferably with a thin needle, such as a needle smaller
35 than 0.6 mm inner diameter, preferably a needle smaller than 0.3 mm inner diameter, more
   preferably a needle small than 0.25 mm inner diameter, even more preferably a needle smaller
   than 0.2 mm inner diameter, and most preferably a needle small than 0.16 mm inner diameter.

       WO 2014/056915                          127                             PCT/EP2013/070949
   In another embodiment, the present invention relates to a medical delivery device comprising
   a polymeric prodrug or pharmaceutical composition comprising a polymeric prodrug of the
   present invention, for use in the prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment of a disease of the
   joint.
 5
   The present invention also relates to a polymeric prodrug or pharmaceutical composition
   comprising a polymeric prodrug, for the preparation of a medicament for the prevention,
   diagnosis and/or treatment of a disease of the joint.
 0 The present invention also relates to a polymeric prodrug of the present invention for use in
   the prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment of a disease of the joint.
   The present invention also relates to a method of preventing and/or treating a disease of the
   joint, wherein said method comprises the step of administering a therapeutically effective
 5 amount of a polymeric prodrug or pharmaceutical composition comprising a polymeric
   prodrug of the present invention to a patient in need thereof Preferably, the polymeric
   prodrug or pharmaceutical composition comprising a polymeric prodrug is administered by
   intra-articular injection.
 0 Fig.   1:   Dexamethasone    concentration    in   plasma   after   intraarticular  injection    of
   dexamethasone linker hydrogel prodrug 1Oc.
   Examples
 5 Materials and Methods
   Amino 4-arm PEG 5kDa was obtained from JenKem Technology, Beijing, P. R. China.
   N-(3 -maleimidopropyl)-2 1-amino-4,7,10,13,16,19-hexaoxa-heneicosanoic          acid NHS      ester
   (Mal-PEG6-NHS) was obtained from Celares GmbH, Berlin, Germany.
30 6-(S-Tritylmercapto)hexanoic acid was purchased from Polypeptide, Strasbourg, France.
   Boc-4-aminobutanoic acid, boc-3-alanine, PyBOP and EDC'HCl were purchased from
   Novabiochem, Darmstadt, Germany.
   Dexamethasone was obtained von Alfa Aesar,
   NHS activated Carboxy-PEG 10 kDa was obtained from Rapp Polymere, T-dbingen, Germany
35 Modmoc-Chloride was ordered from Chemzone, Petaling Jaya, Malaysia
   IL-Ira (Anakinra, Kineret(R)' Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB) ready to use syringes were
   obtained from a local pharmacy.
   All other chemicals were from Sigma-ALDRICH Chemie GmbH, Taufkirchen, Germany.

       WO 2014/056915                           128                           PCT/EP2013/070949
   15-Tritylthio-4,7,10,13-tetraoxa-pentadecanoic    acid (Trt-S-PEG4-COOH) is obtained from
   Iris Biotech GmbH, Marktredwitz, Germany.
   RP-HPLC purification:
 5 RP-HPLC was done on a 100x20 mm or 100x40 mm C18 ReproSil-Pur 300 ODS-3 5gm
   column (Dr. Maisch, Ammerbuch, Germany) or a 30 x 150 mm C18 BEH 300 10gm column
   (Waters) connected to a Waters 600 HPLC System and Waters 2487 Absorbance detector
   unless otherwise stated. Linear gradients of solution A (0.l1% TFA or 0.01 % HCl in H 2 0) and
   solution B (0.1% TFA or 0.01% HCl in acetonitrile) were used. HPLC fractions containing
 0 product were pooled and lyophilized.
   Flash Chromatography
   Flash chromatography purifications were performed on an Isolera One system from Biotage
   AB, Sweden, using Biotage KP-Sil silica cartridges and n-heptane and ethyl acetate as
 5 eluents. Products were detected at 254 nm.
   For hydrogel beads, syringes equipped with polyethylene fits were used as reaction vessels or
   for washing steps.
 0 PBSTE buffer was prepared by solubilizing one PBS-Tween tablet (Calbiochem) and 5 mM
   EDTA in 1 L distilled water and adjusting the pH value to 7.40 with aqueous NaOH (4 N).
   The resulting solution was then filtered through 0.22 gm sterile bottle top filter (Nalgene).
   Citrate buffer pH 6.5 was prepared by dissolving 7.5 mmol trisodium citrate, 140 mmol NaCl,
 5 0.5 mmol EDTA disodium salt and 1.0mg Polysorbate 80 in 950 mL water, adjusting the pH
   to pH 6.50 by addition of 1 N HCl and filling up with water to 1000 mL. Buffer was filtered
   sterile through 0.22 gm Nalgene bottle top filter.
   Analytical ultra-performance LC(UPLC)-MS was performed on a Waters Acquity system
30 equipped with a Waters BEH300 C18 column (2.1 x 50 mm, 1.7 gm particle size) coupled to
   a LTQ Orbitrap Discovery mass spectrometer from Thermo Scientific or a ZQ 4000 ESI
   (positive mode) instrument from Waters.
   MS of PEG products showed a series of (CH 2 CH 2O)n moieties due to polydispersity of PEG
   starting materials. For easier interpretation only one single representative m/z signal is given
35 in the examples.
   SEC-HPLC was performed on an Agilent 1260 system using a TSK-Gel G2000SWXL
   column from Tosoh Bioscience. Mobile Phase Buffer: 1.059 mM KH 2 SO 4 , 2.966 mM
   Na 2HPO 4 and 300 mM NaCl dissolved in water to 980 ml, adjusted to pH 7,40 and filled up

       WO 2014/056915                          129                           PCT/EP2013/070949
   to 1000 ml followed by addition of 100 ml absolute Ethanol. Flow rate: 0.5 ml/min, runtime
   35 min, detector wavelength: 220 nm, reference wavelength: 360 nm, calibrated with IL-Ira
   standard solutions before each measurement.
 5 IL-ira concentration in solution was determined photometrically at 280 nm by using an
   extinction coefficient of 14077 M-1cm-1 for IL1RA and 14202 M-1cm- 1 for oxidized IL1RA
   (internal disulfide)
   Quantitative Amino Acid Analysis (QAAA)
 0 An aliquot of hydrogel suspension in aqueous buffer is weighed into a 10 mL pressure tube.
   Internal standard solution containing aminobutyric acid and d8-valine is added and the
   solvents are evaporated. In addition to these samples, several standards are prepared from
   amino acid stock solutions (mixture of valine, leucine, isoleucine and phenylalanine) and the
   internal standard. To each tube a hydrolysis mixture (600 gL of 6 M HCl/TFA 2:1) and a
 5 stirring bar are added.
   The samples are hydrolyzed for 30 min at 190 'C in the microwave. The hydrolysis solution
   is transferred to a 5 mL volumetric flask. The glass vial is rinsed with cooled 100 mM citrate
   buffer (pH    = 3.0) and the solution is added to the volumetric flask. The solution in the
   volumetric flask is neutralized with cooled 4 M NaOH and the volumetric flask is filled up to
 0 mark with 100 mM citrate buffer (pH = 3.0).
   Aliquots from the volumetric flasks are diluted 1:5 with a 1:1 mixture of 100 mM citrate
   buffer (pH    =  3.0) and 50 mM HFBA in water. After vortexing and centrifugation the
   supernatant is analyzed by LC-MS/MS.
   LC-MS/MS is performed on an Agilent Technologies 1290 Infinity LC combined with an
 5 Agilent Technologies 6460 Triple Quad using a Waters Accq-Tag Ultra C18, 2.1 x 100 mm,
   1.7 [tm column (0.36 mL/min, 45 'C). Eluent A: 0.2 % aqueous HFBA Eluent B: 0.2 %
   HFBA in methanol. A linear 15 min gradient 0.1 - 38 % eluent B is used.
   The amount of protein per sample is calculated by the averaged values obtained for valine,
   leucine, isoleucine and phenylalanine content.
30
   The quantification of plasma dexamethasone concentrations was carried out by LC-MS/MS
   analysis using an Agilent 1290 UPLC coupled to an Agilent 6460 mass spectrometer via an
   ESI probe. Chromatography was performed on a Waters Acquity BEH C18 analytical column
   (100 x 2.1 mm I.D., 1.7 gm particle size) with pre-filter at a flow rate of 0.50 mL/min (T   =
35 45'C). Water (UPLC grade) containing 0.1 % formic acid was used as mobile phase A and
   acetonitrile (UPLC grade) with 0.1 % formic acid as mobile phase B. The gradient system
   comprised a short isocratic step at the initial parameters of 20 % B for 0.1 min followed by
   linear gradient steps from 20 % B to 50 % B in 3.9 min and from 50 % to 99 % in 1.0 min.
   Ion detection was performed in the multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode, monitoring

      WO 2014/056915                         130                          PCT/EP2013/070949
  the transition pairs at the m/z 393.2 precursor ions to the m/z 373.2 product ions for
  dexamethasone and m/z 397.2 precursor ions to the m/z 377.2 product ions for the internal
  standard (IS) D4-dexamethasone.
  The thawed plasma samples (100 gL) were each spiked with 90 pg of D4-dexamethasone (10
5 gl of a methanolic-aqueous D4-dexamethasone solution c    = 900 pg/mL) and diluted with 4 %
  phosphoric acid. For plasma matrix removal and analyte preconcentration the samples were
  subsequently extracted then by solid phase extraction (SPE) using Oasis HLB gElution 96
  well plates (Waters). A two-step washing procedure with 100 gL of 2 % phosphoric acid and
  100 gL methanol/water 2:8 (v/v) (containing 0.1 % formic acid), followed by an elution step
0 with 2x 50 gL methanol/water 9:1 (v/v) (containing 0.1 % formic acid) into 96-well plates
  were    applied   for  selective plasma matrix    removal   and  quantitative   extraction of
  dexamethasone and the internal standard. The eluates were transferred into vials and
  evaporated to dryness under a gentle nitrogen stream at 35 'C. The residues at different time
  points were reconstituted in 50 gL of methanol/water 1:1 (v/v) and aliquots of 10 gL were
5 injected into the UPLC-MS system.
  Blank plasma samples were used to prepare calibrations standards: 100 pL aliquots of pooled
  pre-dose plasma were spiked with different amounts of dexamethasone (30-6000 pg/mL) and
  the internal standard (900 pg/mL). The samples were processed and analyzed as described
  above. Calibration curves were acquired by plotting the peak area ratios of the MRM-signals
0 of dexamethasone and D4-dexamethasone (IS) as a function of the analyte concentration. For
  the quantification of dexamethasone in plasma samples, weighted least-squares regression
  (1/x2) analysis of the standard curves was used (Agilent MassHunter quantification software).
5 Example 1
  Synthesis of backbone reagent 1g

       WO 2014/056915                                             131                                        PCT/EP2013/070949
                                            NH2
                     H2N                            O          NH2
                                                NH
                                                H                                  NH2
                                                N
                                                            NH2
                                H HN            0                     H
    C     0                     N                                     N         NH2
                                    0                   0                0
                     n-28                           N              NH
                                                    H HN                          *8 HCI
                 ig                                            0
                                                                             NH2
   Backbone reagent ig was synthesized from amino 4-arm PEG5000 la according to following
   scheme:
                                      Boc-Lys(Boc)-OH
       [ PEG1250-        NH2
                             ]4
                                      EDC, HOBt,
                                      DMSO, Collidine
                                                      -
                                                             [  E15        -LsBc2       34
                                                                                           HCI Dioxane/MeOH         PEG125OK
                                                                                                                    P1250
                                                                                                                                -  Lys(NH
                                                                                                                                -Ls(N24
                  Ia                                                       1b                                                  ic
   Boc-Lys(Boc)-OH                                              HCI Dioxane/MeOH                                           BOC-LYS(Boc)-OH
                       . PEG1250-           LysLYS 2(Boc) 4 4                      [   PEG1250-        LysLYS 2(NH2)4 4
                                       1d                                                            Ie
                                                1     HCI Dioxane/MeOH
            PEG1250-        LysLYS 2Lys 4(BOC)8 14                            PEG1250 -      LysLYS2 LYS4 (NH 2 )8 14
 5                       if                                                      1g
   For synthesis of compound 1b, amino 4-arm PEG5000 la (MW ca. 5200 g/mol, 5.20 g, 1.00
   mmol, HCl salt) was dissolved in 20 mL of DMSO (anhydrous). Boc-Lys(Boc)-OH (2.17 g,
   6.25 mmol) in 5 mL of DMSO (anhydrous), EDC HCl (1.15 g, 6.00 mmol), HOBt-H 20
10 (0.96 g, 6.25 mmol), and collidine (5.20 mL, 40 mmol) were added. The reaction mixture was
   stirred for 30 min at RT.
   The reaction mixture was diluted with 1200 mL of DCM and washed with 600 mL of 0.1 N
   H2 S0 4 (2 x), brine (1 x), 0.1 M NaOH (2 x), and 1/1 (v/v) brine/water (4 x). Aqueous layers
   were reextracted with 500 mL of DCM. Organic phases were dried over Na2 SO4 , filtered and

        WO 2014/056915                           132                         PCT/EP2013/070949
   evaporated to give 6.3 g of crude product lb as colorless oil. Compound lb was purified by
   RP-HPLC.
   Yield 3.85 g (59%) colorless glassy product 1b.
   MS: m/z 1294.4     = [M+5H] 5" (calculated  =  1294.6).
 5
   Compound lc was obtained by stirring of 3.40 g of compound lb (0.521 mmol) in 5 mL of
   methanol and 9 mL of 4 N HCl in dioxane at RT for 15 min. Volatiles were removed in
   vacuo. The product was used in the the next step without further purification.
   MS: m/z 1151.9     = [M+5H] 5" (calculated  =  1152.0).
 0
   For synthesis of compound id, 3.26 g of compound ic (0.54 mmol) were dissolved in 15 mL
   of DMSO (anhydrous). 2.99 g Boc-Lys(Boc)-OH (8.64 mmol) in 15 mL DMSO (anhydrous),
   1.55 g EDC HCl (8.1 mmol), 1.24 g HOBt-H 20 (8.1 mmol), and 5.62 mL of collidine (43
   mmol) were added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min at RT.
 5 Reaction mixture was diluted with 800 mL DCM and washed with 400 mL of 0.1 N H 2 SO 4 (2
   x), brine (1 x), 0.1 M NaOH (2 x), and 1/1 (v/v) brine/water (4 x). Aqueous layers were
   reextracted with 800 mL of DCM. Organic phases were dried with Na 2 SO 4 , filtered and
   evaporated to give a glassy crude product.
   Product was dissolved in DCM and precipitated with cooled (- 18 'C) diethylether. This
 0 procedure was repeated twice and the precipitate was dried in vacuo.
   Yield: 4.01 g (89%) colorless glassy product 1d, which was used in the next step without
   further purification.
   MS: m/z 1405.4     = [M+6H] 6+ (calculated  =  1405.4).
 5 Compound le was obtained by stirring a solution of compound 1d (3.96 g, 0.47 mmol) in
   7 mL of methanol and 20 mL of 4 N HCl in dioxane at RT for 15 min. Volatiles were
   removed in vacuo. The product was used in the the next step without further purification.
   MS: m/z 969.6     = [M+7H] 7 - (calculated = 969.7).
30 For the synthesis of compound if, compound le (3.55 g, 0.48 mmol) was dissolved in 20 mL
   of DMSO (anhydrous). Boc-Lys(Boc)-OH (5.32 g, 15.4 mmol) in 18.8 mL of DMSO
   (anhydrous), EDC HCl (2.76 g, 14.4 mmol), HOBt-H 2 0 (2.20 g, 14.4 mmol), and 10.0 mL of
   collidine (76.8 mmol) were added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 60 min at RT.
   The reaction mixture was diluted with 800 mL of DCM and washed with 400 mL of 0.1 N
35 H 2 S0 4 (2 x), brine (1 x), 0.1 M NaOH (2 x), and 1/1 (v/v) brine/water (4 x). Aqueous layers
   were reextracted with 800 mL of DCM. Organic phases were dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered and
   evaporated to give crude product If as colorless oil.
   Product was dissolved in DCM and precipitated with cooled (- 18 'C) diethylther. This step
   was repeated twice and the precipitate was dried in vacuo.

       WO 2014/056915                           133                         PCT/EP2013/070949
   Yield: 4.72 g (82%) colourless glassy product 1f which was used in the next step without
   further purification.
   MS: m/z 1505.3 = [M+8H] 8" (calculated = 1505.4).
 5 Backbone reagent 1g was obtained by stirring a solution of compound 1f (MW ca. 12035
   g/mol, 4.72 g, 0,39 mmol) in 20 mL of methanol and 40 mL of 4 N HCl in dioxane at RT for
   30 min. Volatiles were removed in vacuo.
   Yield: 3.91 g (100 %), glassy product backbone reagent 1g.
   MS: m/z 977.2    = [M+9H] 9* (calculated  = 977.4).
 0
   Alternative synthetic route for 1g
   For synthesis of compound 1b, to a suspension of 4-Arm-PEG5000 tetraamine (la) (50.0 g,
   10.0 mmol) in 250 mL of iPrOH (anhydrous), boc-Lys(boc)-OSu (26.6 g, 60.0 mmol) and
   DIlEA (20.9 mL, 120 mmol) were added at 45 'C and the mixture was stirred for 30 min.
 5
   Subsequently, n-propylamine (2.48 mL, 30.0 mmol) was added. After 5 min the solution was
   diluted with 1000 mL of MTBE and stored overnight at -20 'C without stirring.
   Approximately 500 mL of the supernatant were decanted and discarded. 300 mL of cold
   MTBE were added and after 1 min shaking the product was collected by filtration through a
 0 glass filter and washed with 500 mL of cold MTBE. The product was dried in vacuo for 16 h.
   Yield: 65.6 g (74%) lb as a white lumpy solid
   MS: m/z 937.4    = [M+7H] 7 - (calculated = 937.6).
   Compound lc was obtained by stirring of compound lb from the previous step (48.8 g,
 5 7.44 mmol) in 156 mL of 2-propanol at 40 'C. A mixture of 196 mL of 2-propanol and
   78.3 mL of acetylchloride was added under stirring within 1-2 min. The solution was stirred
   at 40 'C for 30 min and cooled to -30 'C overnight without stirring. 100 mL of cold MTBE
   were added, the suspension was shaken for 1 min and cooled for 1 h at -30 'C. The product
   was collected by filtration through a glass filter and washed with 200 mL of cold MTBE. The
30 product was dried in vacuo for 16 h.
   Yield: 38.9 g (86%) ic as a white powder
   MS: m/z 960.1 = [M+6H] 6+ (calculated = 960.2).
   For synthesis of compound 1d, boc-Lys(boc)-OSu (16.7 g, 37.7 mmol) and DIPEA (13.1 mL,
35 75.4 mmol) were added to a suspension of lc from the previous step (19.0 g, 3.14 mmol) in
   80 ml 2-propanol at 45 'C and the mixture was stirred for 30 min at 45 'C. Subsequently, n
   propylamine (1.56 mL, 18.9 mmol) was added. After 5 min the solution was precipitated with
   600 mL of cold MTBE and centrifuged (3000 min 1 , 1 min) The precipitate was dried in
   vacuo for 1 h and dissolved in 400 mL THF. 200 mL of diethyl ether were added and the

       WO 2014/056915                           134                            PCT/EP2013/070949
   product was cooled to -30 'C for 16 h without stirring. The suspension was filtered through a
   glass filter and washed with 300 mL cold MTBE. The product was dried in vacuo for 16 h.
   Yield: 21.0 g (80%) 1d as a white solid
   MS: m/z 1405.4    = [M+6H] 6+ (calculated  =  1405.4).
 5
   Compound le was obtained by dissolving compound 1d from the previous step (15.6 g,
   1.86 mmol) in 3 N HCl in methanol (81 mL, 243 mmol) and stirring for 90 min at 40 'C.
   200 mL of MeOH and 700 mL of iPrOH were added and the mixture was stored for 2 h at
   -30 'C. For completeness of crystallization, 100 mL of MTBE were added and the suspension
 0 was stored at -30 'C overnight. 250 mL of cold MTBE were added, the suspension was
   shaken for 1 min and filtered through a glass filter and washed with 100 mL of cold MTBE.
   The product was dried in vacuo.
   Yield: 13.2 g (96%) le as a white powder
   MS: m/z 679.1    = [M+10H] 0 (calculated    =  679.1).
 5
   For the synthesis of compound if, boc-Lys(boc)-OSu (11.9 g, 26.8 mmol) and DIPEA
   (9.34 mL, 53.6 mmol) were added to a suspension of le from the previous step, (8.22 g,
   1.12 mmol) in 165 ml 2-propanol at 45 'C and the mixture was stirred for 30 min.
   Subsequently, n-propylamine (1.47 mL, 17.9 mmol) was added. After 5 min the solution was
 0 cooled to -18 'C for 2 h, then 165 mL of cold MTBE were added, the suspension was shaken
   for 1 min and filtered through a glass filter. Subsequently, the filter cake was washed with 4x
   200 mL of cold MTBE/iPrOH 4:1 and 1x 200 mL of cold MTBE. The product was dried in
   vacuo for 16 h.
 5 Yield: 12.8 g, MW (90 %) if as a pale yellow lumpy solid
   MS: m/z 1505.3    = [M+8H] 8" (calculated  =  1505.4).
   Backbone reagent 1g was obtained by dissolving 4ArmPEG5kDa(-LysLys 2Lys 4(boc)s)           4 (If)
   (15.5 g, 1.29 mmol) in 30 mL of MeOH and cooling to 0 C. 4 N HCl in dioxane (120 mL,
30 480 mmol, cooled to 0 'C) was added within 3 min and the ice bath was removed. After
   20 min, 3 N HCl in methanol (200 mL, 600 mmol, cooled to 0 'C) was added within 15 min
   and the solution was stirred for 10 min at room temperature. The product solution was
   precipitated with 480 mL of cold MTBE and centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 1 min. The
   precipitate was dried in vacuo for 1 h and redissolved in 90 mL of MeOH, precipitated with
35 240 mL of cold MTBE and the suspension was centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 1 min. The
   product 1g was dried in vacuo
   Yield: 11.5 g (89 %) as pale yellow flakes.
   MS: m/z 1104.9    = [M+8H] 8" (calculated  =  1104.9).

      WO 2014/056915                        135                        PCT/EP2013/070949
  Synthesis of backbone reagent (1h)
                                         NH  2
                           S      NH 2      H     NH 2
                           HN               N                NH 2
                                NH             0
                       H
   CO           0  -N          NH                       *8 HCI
                          0 0
                                            H    NH  2
                n~28         0    NH        N
                          H 2N                 0          NH 2
             ih
                                       NH 2
  Backbone reagent lh was synthesized as described for ig, except for the use of Boc-D
  Lys(Boc)-OSu instead of Boc-Lys(Boc)-OSu.
5 Yield: 12.99 g (76 %) as white foam.
  MS: m/z 910.50   = [M+1OH]10 (calculated  =  910.57).
  Example 2
  Synthesis of crosslinker reagent 2d
0 Crosslinker reagent 2d was prepared from adipic acid mono benzyl ester (English, Arthur R.
  et al., JournalofMedicinal Chemistry, 1990, 33(1), 344-347) and PEG2000 according to the
  following scheme:

        WO 2014/056915                         136                           PCT/EP2013/070949
      2                                O        +       HO      O       OH
                                                                  2a
                                                                           n ~4 5
                                               DCC, DMAP, DCM
                                0                           0
                  0    O                               nO
                                                         0'        2    o 0
                                               H 2, Pd/C, EtOH/AcOEt
                                 0                            0
               HO                             O                             OH
                        O                               nO
          O                                       DCC, NHS, DCM
                               0                            0
                                 O                    nO                  O-N
                                  0-        0-O--
         4N-O
          O       0                                                 2d 0       O
   A solution of PEG 2000 (2a) (11.0 g, 5.5 mmol) and benzyl adipate half-ester (4.8 g, 20.6
   mmol) in DCM (90.0 mL) was cooled to 00 C. Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (4.47 g, 21.7 mmol)
 5 was added followed by a catalytic amount of DMAP (5 mg) and the solution was stirred and
   allowed to reach room temperature overnight (12 h). The flask was stored at +4'C for 5 h.
   The solid was filtered and the solvent completely removed by distillation in vacuo. The
   residue was dissolved in 1000 mL 1/1(v/v) diethyl ether/ethyl acetate and stored at RT for 2
   hours while a small amount of a flaky solid was formed. The solid was removed by filtration
10 through a pad of Celite@. The solution was stored in a tightly closed flask at -30'C in the
   freezer for 12 h until crystallisation was complete. The crystalline product was filtered
   through a glass frit and washed with cooled diethyl ether (-30'C). The filter cake was dried in
   vacuo.
   Yield: 11.6 g (86 %) 2b as a colorless solid. The product was used without further purification
15 in the next step.
   MS: m/z 813.1 = [M+3H]3 +(calculated = 813.3)
   In a 500 mL glass autoclave PEG2000-bis-adipic acid-bis-benzyl ester 2b (13.3 g, 5.5 mmol)
   was dissolved in ethyl acetate (180 mL) and 10% Palladium on charcoal (0.4 g) was added.
20 The solution was hydrogenated at 6 bar, 40'C until consumption of hydrogen had ceased (5-

      WO 2014/056915                           137                        PCT/EP2013/070949
  12 h). Catalyst was removed by filtration through a pad of Celite@ and the solvent was
  evaporated in vacuo.
  Yield: 12.3 g (quantitative) 2c as yellowish oil. The product was used without further
  purification in the next step.
5 MS: m/z 753.1    = [M+3H]3 - (calculated  = 753.2)
  A solution     of PEG2000-bis-adipic       acid  half ester  2c (9.43  g, 4.18  mmol),    N
  hydroxysuccinimide (1.92 g, 16.7 mmol) and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (3.44 g, 16.7 mmol)
  in 75 mL of DCM (anhydrous) was stirred over night at room temperature. The reaction
0 mixture was cooled to 0 'C and precipitate was filtered off. DCM was evaporated and the
  residue was recrystallized from THF.
  Yield: 8.73 g (85%) crosslinker reagent 2d as colorless solid.
  MS: m/z 817.8    = [M+3H]3 - (calculated =  817.9 g/mol).
5 Synthesis of 2e
       00                    0                          0          0      0
         N-O                     O         OO                         0-N
              O                    n~4 5                                  0
  2e was synthesized as described for 2d except for the use of glutaric acid instead of adipic
  acid
0 MS: m/z 764.4    = [M+3H]3+ (calculated    = 764.5).
  Crosslinker reagent 2k was prepared from isopropylmalonic acid monobenzyl ester and
  PEG3300 according to the following scheme:

       WO 2014/056915                          138                          PCT/EP2013/070949
                           0      0
                        0              OH     +     HO                        OH
                                                                      n
                   rac-2h                                                      n - 226
                                                    DCC, DMAP, DCM
                      O       0                                 0       0
                  0              0f                 n       0              0
                                             rac-2i
                                                I   H2, Pd/C, MeOAc
                      0     0                                   0       0
                HO               0                          0              OH
                                                    -n
                                             rac-2j
                                                   TSTU, DIPEA, DCM
                 0                                                          0
                 N                              0                   0     0
          0                                          n                             0
                                              rac-2k
   For the synthesis of isopropylmalonic acid monobenzyl ester rac-2h, isopropylmalonic acid
   (35.0 g, 239 mmol), benzyl alcohol (23.3 g, 216 mmol) and DMAP (1.46 g, 12.0 mmol) were
 5 dissolved in 100 mL acetonitrile. Mixture was cooled to 0 'C with an ice bath. A solution of
   DCC (49.4 g, 239 mmol) in 150 mL acetonitrile was added within 15 min at 0 'C. The ice
   bath was removed and the reaction mixture was stirred over night at room temperature, then
   the solid was filtered off. The filtrate was evaporated at 40 'C in vacuo and the residue was
   dissolved in 300 mL MTBE. This solution was extracted with 2 x 300 mL sat. aqueous
10 NaHCO 3 solution, then the combined aqueous phases were acidified to pH = 1-3 using 6 N
   hydrochloric acid. The resulting emulsion was extracted with 2 x 300 mL MTBE and the
   solvent was evaporated. The combined organic phases were washed with 200 mL sat. aqueous
   NaCl and dried over MgSO 4 . The product was purified on 340 g silica using ethyl acetate /
   heptane (10:90 -> 20:80) as eluent. The eluent was evaporated and the residue was dried in
15 vacuo over night.
   Yield 9.62 g (17%) colorless oil rac-2h.

       WO 2014/056915                            139                            PCT/EP2013/070949
   MS: m/z 237.11    =  [M+H]* (calculated   =  237.11).
   For synthesis of compound 2i, isopropylmalonic acid monobenzyl ester rac-2h (5.73 g,
   24.24 mmol) and PEG3300 (20.0 g, 6.06 mmol) were dissolved in 110 mL dichloromethane
 5 and cooled with an ice bath. A solution of DCC (5.00 g, 24.24 mmol) and DMAP (37 mg,
   0.30 mmol) in 20 mL dichloromethane was added. The ice bath was removed and mixture
   was stirred at room temperature overnight. The resulting suspension was cooled to 0 'C and
   the solid was filtered off. The solvent was evaporated in vacuo.
 0 The residue was dissolved in 70 mL dichloromethane and diluted with 800 mL MTBE at
   room temperature. The mixture was stored over night at -20 'C. The precipitate was collected
   by filtration through a glass filter Por. 3, and washed with 650 mL of cooled MTBE (-20 C).
   The product was dried in vacuo over night. Precipitation procedure was repeated. The product
   was dried in vacuo over night.
 5 Yield 20.49 g (90%) white powder rac-2i.
   MS: m/z 671.39 =[M+6H] 6+(calculated        = 671.47).
   For synthesis of compound rac-2j, compound rac-2i (20.38 g, 5.42 mmol) was dissolved in
   methyl acetate (130 mL) and 242 mg of palladium on charcoal (10%) was added. Under a
 0 hydrogen atmosphere of ambient pressure, the mixture was stirred overnight at room
   temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a pad of celite and the filtrate was
   evaporated and dried in vacuo over night.
   Yield 18.24 g (94%) glassy solid rac-2j.
   MS: m/z 641.38 =[M+6H] 6+(calculated        = 641.43).
 5
   For synthesis of compound rac-2k, compound rac-2j (11.98 g, 3.35 mmol) and TSTU
   (4.03 g, 13.39 mmol) were dissolved in 145 mL dichloromethane at room temperature. Then
   DIPEA (1.73 g, 13.39 mmol) was added and the mixture was stirred for 45 min. The resulting
   suspension was filtered and the filtrate was washed with 175 mL of a 0.5 M phosphate buffer
30 pH = 6.5. Organic phase was diluted with 350 mL ethyl acetate. The organic phase was dried
   over MgSO 4 and the solvent was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in 100 mL
   toluene, diluted with 25 mL MTBE at room temperature and stored over night at -20 'C. The
   precipitate was collected by filtration through a glass filter Por. 3, and washed with 600 mL of
   cooled MTBE (-20 C). The product was dried in vacuo over night.
35 Yield 8.50 g (67%) white powder rac-2k.
   MS: m/z 673.72 =[M+6H] 6+(calculated        = 673.77).
   Example 3
   Preparation of hydrogel beads 3a, 3b, 3c and 3d containing free amino groups

       WO 2014/056915                           140                        PCT/EP2013/070949
   Preparation of hydrogel beads 3a containing free amino groups
   A solution of 1200 mg 1g and 3840 mg 2e in 28.6 mL DMSO was added to a solution of 425
   mg Arlacel P135 (Croda International Plc) in 100 mL heptane. The mixture was stirred at
   650 rpm with a propeller stirrer for 10 min at 25 'C to form a suspension in a 250 ml reactor
 5 equipped with baffles. 4.3 mL TMEDA was added to effect polymerization. After 2 h, the
   stirrer speed was reduced to 400 rpm and the mixture was stirred for additional 16 h. 6.6 mL
   of acetic acid were added and then after 10 min 50 mL of water and 50 mL of saturated
   aqueous sodium chloride solution were added. After 5 min, the stirrer was stopped and the
   aqueous phase was drained.
 0 For bead size fractionation, the water-hydrogel suspension was wet-sieved on 75, 50, 40, 32
   and 20 gm mesh steel sieves. Bead fractions that were retained on the 32, 40, and 50 gm
   sieves were pooled and washed 3 times with water, 10 times with ethanol and dried for 16 h at
   0.1 mbar to give 3a as a white powder.
 5 Amino group content of hydrogel was determined by coupling of a fmoc-amino acid to the
   free amino groups of the hydrogel and subsequent fmoc-determination as described by Gude,
   M., J. Ryf, et al. (2002) Letters in Peptide Science 9(4): 203-206.
   The amino group content of 3a was determined to be between 0.11 and 0.16 mmol/g.
 0
   Preparation of hydrogel beads 3b, containing free amino groups
   A solution of 2850 mg 1g and 3705 mg 2d in 32.81 mL DMSO was added to a solution of
   505 mg Arlacel P135 (Croda International Plc) in 120 mL heptane. The mixture was stirred at
 5 800 rpm with a propeller stirrer for 10 min at 25 'C to form a suspension in a 250 ml reactor
   equipped with baffles. 9.51 mL TMEDA was added to effect polymerization. After 2 h, the
   stirrer speed was reduced to 400 rpm and the mixture was stirred for additional 16 h. 14.6 mL
   of acetic acid were added and then after 10 min 50 mL of water and 50 mL of saturated
   aqueous sodium chloride solution were added. After 5 min, the stirrer was stopped and the
30 aqueous phase was drained.
   For bead size fractionation, the water-hydrogel suspension was wet-sieved on 75, 50, 40, 32
   and 20 gm mesh steel sieves. Bead fractions that were retained on the 32, 40, and 50 gm
   sieves were pooled and washed 3 times with water, 10 times with ethanol and dried for 16 h at
   0.1 mbar to give 3b as a white powder.
35
   Preparation of hydrogel beads 3c, containing free amino groups
   3c was synthesized according to the same procedure except for the use of 1h instead of 1g.

       WO 2014/056915                         141                           PCT/EP2013/070949
   The amino group content of 3b and 3c was found to be 0.7 - 1.0 mmol/g.
   Preparation of hydrogel beads 3d, containing free amino groups
   ( PEG-modified hydrogel)
 5 A suspension of hydrogel 3c in DMSO corresponding to 460 mg dried hydrogel (425 gmol, 1
   eq) was filled into a syringe equipped with a polyethylene frit and washed six times with
   DMSO. A solution of PEG reagent (NHS activated Carboxy-PEG 10 kDa, 850 mg, 85 gmol,
   0.2 eq, RAPP Polymere, Tiibingen, Germany) in 8 mL DMSO and a 1.5 mL DMSO-solution
   of TMEDA (127 gL, 850 gmol, 2 eq) were added and the syringe was shaken for 22 h at RT.
 0 The PEG modified hydrogel 3d was then washed 10 times with 10 mL DMSO and aliquots
   were sampled for determination of free amino group content. The hydrogel suspension was
   stored at 4 'C.
   The amino group content of 3d was found to be 0.42 - 0.46 mmol/g.
 5 3e was prepared as described for 3a except for the use of a 1 L reactor with 100 mm diameter,
   400 mL undecane, 1000 mg 1h, 5698 mg rac-2k, 60.3 g DMSO, 595 mg Cithrol m DPHS,
   4.5 mL TMEDA, and 6.7 mL acetic acid, yielding 1,24 g (bead fraction on 100 gm sieve) 3e
   as a white powder.
   The amino group content of 3e was found to be 0.068 mmol/g.
 0
   3f was prepared as described for 3a except for the use of 740 mg 1h, 3362 mg rac-2k, 36.9 g
   DMSO, 365 mg Cithrol"       DPHS, 3.3 mL ml TMEDA, and 5.1 mL acetic acid, yielding
   950 mg (bead fraction on 75 gm sieve) 3f as a white powder.
   The amino group content of 3f was found to be 0.179 mmol/g.
 5
   Example 4
   Preparation of maleimide functionalized hydrogel suspension 4 and determination of
   maleimide substitution
             0
          N                     0
         O0
30                                             0
                         Mal-PEG6-NHS
   Hydrogel 3a was pre-washed with 99/1 (v/v) DMSO/DIPEA, washed with DMSO and
   incubated for 45 min with a solution of Mal-PEG6-NHS (2.0 eq relative to theoretical amount
35 of amino groups on hydrogel) in DMSO. Hydrogel were washed five times with DMSO and

       WO 2014/056915                          142                          PCT/EP2013/070949
   five times with pH 3.0 succinate (20 mM, 1 mM EDTA, 0.01 % Tween-20). The sample was
   washed three times with pH 6.0 sodium phosphate (50 mM, 50 mM ethanolamine, 0.01 %
   Tween-20) and incubated in the same buffer for 1 h at RT. Then hydrogel was washed five
   times with pH 3.0 sodium succinate (20 mM, 1 mM EDTA, 0.01 % Tween-20) and kept in
 5 that buffer to yield maleimide functionalized hydrogel 4 in suspension.
   For determination of maleimide content, an aliquot of hydrogel 4 was washed three times
   with water and ethanol each. The aliquot was dried under reduced pressure and the weight of
   hydrogel in the aliquot was determined. Another aliquot of hydrogel 4 was reacted with
 0 excess mercaptoethanol (in 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer, 30 min at RT), and
   mercaptoethanol consumption was detected by Ellman test (Ellman, G. L. et al., Biochem.
   Pharmacol., 1961, 7, 88-95). A maleimide content of 0.10 - 0.15 mmol/g dried hydrogel was
   calculated.
 5
   Example 5
   Preparation of betamethasone linker reagent 5
   Betamethasone linker reagent 5 is synthesized according to the following scheme:
                                0
                      0              NH2
                                                                                         3 STrt
           HO            ,'OH                    1. EDC, DIEA,            0
                   H
                                                 2. HFIP, TES
                F    H
   0
                                0
                      0              N0
                              0                            3SH
           HO            ,.1OH          0
                   H
                F    H          5
    0
20
   21-Glycyl-betamethasone is prepared according to the literature (Benedini, Francesca; Biondi,
   Stefano; Ongini, Ennio, PCT Int. Appl. (2008), WO 2008095806 Al 20080814). To a
   solution of 21-glycyl-betamethasone hydrochloride (MW 486 g/mol, 600 mg, 1.2 mmol) in
   methylene chloride (dry, molecular sieve, 40 ml), Trt-S-PEG4-COOH (MW 480.6 g/mol, 960
25 mg, 2.0 mmol), EDC-HCl (191,7 g/mol, 383 mg, 2.0 mmol) and DIEA (129.2 g/mol, d 0.742
   mg/mL, 0.7 ml, 4 mmol) are added. The reaction is stirred at room temperature for 24 h. The
   solution is treated with a 5% solution of H3 PO 4 (50 ml). The organic layer is dried over
   sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is dissolved in 2 mL

        WO 2014/056915                          143                           PCT/EP2013/070949
   dichloro methane and 8 mL HFIP. 0.4 mL TES are added and the reaction is stirred at room
   temperature for 1 h. Volatiles are removed under reduced pressure and 5 is purified by RP
   HPLC.
 5 Example 6
   Synthesis of betamethasone linker hydrogel 6
                                                                          0
                                    0
                                         H
                        ON                                                N'hydrogel
                                                               3 S
             HO             .1OH            O                           O
                     H
                       00
                 F      H          6
        OL
 0 A suspension of maleimide functionalized hydrogel 4 in pH 3.0 succinate buffer (20 mM, 1
   mM EDTA, 0.01% Tween-20)/acetonitrile            1/2 (v/v), (corresponding to 250 mg dried
   hydrogel, maleimide loading of 0.1 mmol /g dried hydrogel) is filled into a syringe equipped
   with a filter frit. The hydrogel is washed ten times with 2/1 (v/v) acetonitrile/water containing
   0.1% TFA (v/v). A solution of betamethasone linker reagent 6 (MW 669.8 g/mol, 18.5 mg,
 5 27.5 gmol) in 2/1 (v/v) acetonitrile/water containing 0.1% TFA (3.7 mL) is drawn up and
   shaken for 2 min at RT to obtain an equilibrated suspension. 334 gL phosphate buffer (pH
   7.4, 0.5 M) is added and the syringe is agitated at RT. Consumption of thiol is monitored by
   Ellman test. The hydrogel is washed 10 times with 1/1 (v/v) acetonitrile/water containing
   0.1% TFA (v/v).
20 Mercaptoethanol (47 gL) is dissolved in 1/1 (v/v) acetonitrile/water plus 0.1% TFA (3 mL)
   and phosphate buffer (0.5 mL, pH 7.4, 0.5 M).The solution is drawn into the syringe and the
   syringe is agitated for 30 min at RT. Hydrogel is washed ten times with 1/1 (v/v)
   acetonitrile/water plus 0.1% TFA and ten times with sterile succinate buffer (10 mM, 46 g/L
   mannitol, 0.05% Tween-20, adjusted to pH 5.0 with 5 M NaOH). Volume is adjusted to 5 mL
25 to yield 50 mg/mL betamethasone linker hydrogel 6 as suspension in succinate buffer.
   Betamethasone content is determined by thiol consumption during reaction (Ellman test).
   Example 7
   Release kinetics in vitro
30 An aliquot of betamethasone linker hydrogel 6 is transferred in a syringe equipped with a
   filter frit and washed 5 times with pH 7.4 phosphate buffer (60 mM, 3 mM EDTA, 0.01%
   Tween-20). The hydrogel is suspended in the same buffer and incubated at 37 'C. At defined
   time points (after 1 - 7 days incubation time each) the supernatant is exchanged and liberated

       WO 2014/056915                            144                          PCT/EP2013/070949
   betamethasone is quantified by RP-HPLC at 215 nm. UV-signals correlating to liberated
   betamethasone are integrated and plotted against incubation time.
   Curve-fitting software is applied to estimate the corresponding halftime of release.
 5 Example 8
   Pharmacokinetics, pharmacodymamics and local tolerabily of betamethasone after
   intra-articular injection of betamethasone linker hydrogel in anitgen induced arthritic
   rabbit
   Arthritis is induced in rabbit joints by the ovalbumin method (Horisawa E, Hirota T, Kawazoe
 0  S, Yamada J, Yamamoto H, Takeuchi H, Kawashima Y. Prolongedanti-inflammatory action
   of DL-lactide/glycolide copolymer nanospheres containingbetamethasone sodium phosphate
   for an intra-articulardelivery system in antigen-inducedarthritic rabbit, Pharm Res. 2002
   Apr;19(4):403-10.). 14 male New Zealand White rabbits are immunized by intradermal
   injection of Freud's Complete Adjuvant containing 5 mg ovalbumin/mL. At three weeks after
 5 immunization the arthritis is induced in the left knees by injecting 0.5 mL of saline containing
   5 mg of ovalbumin. Simultaneously 200 gl betamethasone linker hydrogel suspension 6
   containing 3 mg betamethasone are administered into the articular joint cavity. Control
   animals receive suspension buffer. Two animals each are euthanized 4 h and 1, 3, 7, 14, 28
   and 42 days after after the joint challenge. Whole blood is collected via the medial ear artery
 0 or cardiac bleed under anesthesia. Synovial fluid is collected from both knees. Betamethasone
   in plasma and synovial         fluid is quantified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass
   spectrometry according to literature (Pereira Ados S, Oliveira LS, Mendes GD, Gabbai JJ, De
   Nucci G. Quantification of betamethasone in human plasma by liquid chromatography
   tandem mass spectrometry using atmospheric pressure photoionization in negative mode, J
 5 Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2005 Dec 15;828(1-2):27-32.). Reduction in
   joint swelling and surface skin temperature, as well as cartilage quality and histological
   evaluation for biocompatibility is performed according to literature. (Horisawa E, Hirota T,
   Kawazoe S, Yamada J, Yamamoto H, Takeuchi H, Kawashima Y. Prolonged anti
   inflammatory      action   of     DL-lactide/glycolide  copolymer     nanospheres     containing
30 betamethasone sodium phosphate for an intra-articulardelivery system in antigen-induced
   arthriticrabbit,Pharm Res. 2002 Apr;19(4):403-10).
   Example 9
   Preparation of dexamethasone linker reagents 7a, 7b, and 7c
35 Dexamethasone linker reagents 7a, 7b and 7c were synthesized according to the following
   scheme:

       WO 2014/056915                          145                           PCT/EP2013/070949
                                                                   0
                               OHo
                       O'                                       X
            HO              .         DMAP, MeCN/CH2CI2               n
                    H
                 F     H
                                    0        0
                                   O        O
               OO
                               HO              OH
                                      n
               HOO
                    H                                     7a: n = 0, X = CH2
                                                          7b: n = 1, X = CH2
                 F     H                                  7c: n= 1, X= 0
     0
   General procedure A for the synthesis of dexamethasone dicarboxylic acid hemiesters:
   Dexamethasone (1 eq) is dissolved in a dichloromethane/acetonitrile solution (5/1, v/v,
 5 dexamethasone concentration 5 mg/mL) and cyclic anhydride (4 eq) and DMAP (2 eq) are
   added. The reaction mixture is allowed to stir at RT for 2 h and volatiles are then removed
   under reduced pressure. The residue is taken up in a water/acetonitrile (1/1, v/v) + 0.1 % TFA
   solution and purified by RP-HPLC. The collected fractions are lyophilized to afford the
   desired product as a white amorphous solid.
 0
   Synthesis of dexamethasone linker reagent 7a:
                                  0
                                           OH
                       O0                0
              HO       O s      OOH
                H O        ..,,,0
                   H
                                      7a
   7a was synthesized from 100 mg dexamethasone according to the general procedure A by
   using succinic anhydride.
15
   Yield: 123 mg (0.250 mmol, 98 %).
   MS: m/z 493.27  =  [M+H]* (MW calculated     = 492.22).

      WO 2014/056915                        146                           PCT/EP2013/070949
   Synthesis of dexamethasone linker reagent 7b:
                               O         0
                             O              OH
                       ON
           HO              ,0 H
                    H        -
                    H
                                    7b
         0
   7b was synthesized from 40 mg dexamethasone according to the general procedure A by
   using glutaric anhydride.
 5
   Yield: 37 mg (0.073 mmol, 72  0)
   MS: m/z 507.29   = [M+H]* (MW calculated  =  506.23).
   Synthesis of dexamethasone linker reagent 7c:
                               O         0
                             O              OH
                      H
                      0
                    H      ..0
                 F    H7c
 0
   7c was synthesized from 80 mg dexamethasone according to the general procedure A by
   using diglycolic anhydride.
   Yield: 93 mg (0.183 mmol, 90 %).
15 MS: m/z 509.25   = [M+H]* (MW calculated  =  508.21).
   Example 10
   Preparation of dexamethasone linker reagents 8a, 8b and 8c
   Dexamethasone linkers 8a, 8b, and 8c were synthesized according to the following scheme:

       WO 2014/056915                             147                         PCT/EP2013/070949
                              OH                                              O    H
                                                                          HH       H
           HO               .-,H     1. EDC.HCI, DMAP, MeCN/CH2C12                     0
                   H           -.    2. HFIP, TFA
                F     H
     0
                                 0                                                        0
                              O     KNH2                                               OY$NO
                      0-.0
                               OH        DIPEA, DMAP, CH2C12                            OH
               H HO~
                   HO.-      ~                 O     O                HHO                o
                                                                                    .., -..
                   H           -..                                           H
                                                                                            OH
     O
      S0                                                        O
                                                                           F8a:n=1
                                                                                          8b: n = 2
                                                                                          8c: n = 3
   General procedure B for synthesis of dexamethasone linker reagents:
   Dexamethasone (1 eq) is dissolved in a dichloromethane/acetonitrile (6/1, v/v) solution
 5 (dexamethasone concentration 8 mg/mL) and Boc-protected amino acid (1.5 eq), DMAP (2.5
   eq) and EDC'HCl (2.5 eq) are successively added. The reaction mixture is allowed to stir for 1
   h at RT and diluted with dichloromethane. The solution is washed three times with an
   aqueous hydrochloric acid solution (0.1 N) and once with brine. The organic layer is then
   dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered and volatiles are removed in vacuo. The residue is then taken up
 0 in a HFIP/TFA (1/1, v/v) solution and the resulting mixture is allowed to stir at RT for 30
   min. The volatiles are removed under reduced pressure and the residue is dissolved again in
   dichloromethane. DIPEA (3 eq), DMAP (3 eq) and glutaric anhydride (3 eq) are then added
   and the resulting mixture is stirred for 2 h at RT. The reaction mixture is evaporated under
   reduced pressure and the residue is taken up in a water/acetonitrile (1/1, v/v) solution. Linker
15 reagent is purified by RP-HPLC and subsequent lyophilization of the collected fractions gives
   the desired dexamethasone linker as a white amorphous solid.
   Synthesis of dexamethasone linker reagent 8a:

      WO 2014/056915                        148                         PCT/EP2013/070949
                                 O   N
                                                     OH
                              ONN
           HO             .,,0 H
                   H
                F     Ha
   8a was synthesized from 150 mg dexamethasone according to the general procedure B by
   using Boc-glycine as amino acid.
 5 Yield: 160 mg (0.284 mmol, 74 %).
   MS: m/z 564.34 = [M+H]* (MW calculated     = 563.25).
   Synthesis of dexamethasone linker reagent 8b:
                                 O       0           0
                              O        N                OH
              HO      O s      OH
           HO             ..,,,O H
                   H H        --       8b
                F     H
 0 8b was synthesized from 1.4 g dexamethasone according to the general procedure B by using
   Boc-P-alanine as amino acid.
   Yield: 1.593 g (2.758 mmol, 77   0)
   MS: m/z 578.19   = [M+H]+ (MW calculated   =  577.27).
15
   Synthesis of dexamethasone linker reagent 8c:
                                 OH
                                          N                OH
                         O                  0            0
           HO             ..,,,0 H
                   H
                                       8c
                F     H
         OF            i
   8c was synthesized from 130 mg dexamethasone according to the general B by using y-(Boc
   amino)butyric acid as amino acid.

        WO 2014/056915                          149                         PCT/EP2013/070949
   Yield: 160 mg (0.270 mmol, 82 %).
   MS: m/z 592.26   =  [M+H]* (MW calculated     =  591.28).
   Example 11
 5 Synthesis of dexamethasone linker hydrogel prodrugs 9a, 9b and 9c
                                   0           0
                       0        O"                Nhydrogel
            HO             .,,OH                  H
                    H
                 F     H                9a: n = 0, X = CH2
     O                                  9b: n = 1, X = CH2
                                        9c: n = 1, X = 0
   General procedure C for dexamethasone linker hydrogel prodrug synthesis:
 0 Hydrogel 3b (1 eq, amine content) is weighed into a syringe equipped with a polyethylene
   frit, washed five times with DMF and agitated for 2 h with 1.3 eq of dexamethasone linker
   reagent, 1.5 eq of PyBOP and 4 eq of DIPEA in DMF (approx. 60 mg hydrogel/mL DMF).
   Dexamethasone      linker   hydrogel   prodrug    is  then washed    with DMF    (10  times),
   dichloromethane (10 times) and ethanol (10 times) and dried in vacuo.
 5
   Dexamethasone linker hydrogel prodrugs 9a, 9b and 9c were synthesized according to
   general procedure C by using dexamethasone linker reagent 7a, 7b and 7c, respectively.
   Dexamethasone loading was calculated based on hydrogel weight increase after conjugation.
20 A dexamethasone loading of 18-23 % (weight dexamethasone/total weight of dexamethasone
   linker hydrogel) was obtained
   Example 12
   Synthesis of dexamethasone linker hydrogel prodrugs 10a, 10b, 10c and 10d
25
                                   0       H                 H
                                O                             hydrogenl
            HO             .0   H        n                O
                    H
                  ,F H                10a: n = 1, hydrogel 3b
                                      10b: n = 2, hydrogel 3b
                                      10c: n = 2, hydrogel 3d
                                      1Od: n = 3, hydrogel 3b

       WO 2014/056915                          150                          PCT/EP2013/070949
   General protocol D for dexamethasone linker hydrogel prodrug synthesis:
   Hydrogel 3b (1 eq amine content) is weighed into a syringe equipped with a polyethylene frit,
   washed five times with DMF and agitated for 2 h with 1.5 eq of dexamethasone linker
   reagent, 2.5 eq of PyBOP and 4 eq of DIPEA in DMF (60 mg hydrogel/mL DMF).
 5 Dexamethasone-linker       hydrogel   prodrug   is then   washed   with   DMF    (10   times),
   dichloromethane (10 times) and ethanol (10 times) and dried in vacuo.
   Dexamethasone linker hydrogel prodrugs 10a, 10b, 10c and 10d were synthesized according
   to general procedure D by using hydrogels 3b, 3b, 3d and 3b respectively, and
 0 dexamethasone linker reagent 8a, 8b, 8b and 8c respectively. NMP (90 mg hydrogel/mL
   NMP) was used instead of DMF for the synthesis of 10c.
   Dexamethasone loading was calculated based on hydrogel weight increase after conjugation.
   A dexamethasone loading of 14-17 % (weight dexamethasone/total weight of dexamethasone
 5 linker hydrogel) was obtained
   Example 13
   In vitro release kinetics
   In vitro release kinetics at pH 7.40:
 0 Dexamethasone linker hydrogel prodrug aliquots were weighed into a syringe equipped with a
   polyethylene frit and washed three times with pH 7.40 PBSTE buffer. The syringe was filled
   up to ca. 2 mL with the same buffer and incubated at 37 'C. At defined time points (after 1 - 7
   days incubation time each) the supernatant was exchanged and released dexamethasone was
   quantified by RP-HPLC at 215 nm. UV-signals correlating to liberated dexamethasone were
 5 integrated and amount of released dexamethasone was calculated by comparison with a
   dexamethasone calibration curve. Liberated dexamethasone was plotted against incubation
   time and half life of release was determined using curve-fitting software assuming first-order
   release kinetics.
30 Release half life time of dexamethasone from dexamethasone linker hydrogel prodrugs:
                                     Compound           pH 7.40
                                          9a              4.8 d
                                          9b             300 d
                                          9c              1.6 d
                                         10a              7.6 d
                                         10b              46 d
                                         10c              49 d
                                         10d              101 d

     WO 2014/056915                          151                            PCT/EP2013/070949
  Example 14
  Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics             of dexamethasone after intra-articular
  injection of dexamethasone-linker hydrogel in ACLT-induced arthritic rabbits
  Arthritis was induced in female Hyla NG rabbits (24 weeks old, average weight 4.4 kg) by
5 anterior cruciate ligament transection (ACLT) of the right knee. Four days after surgery
  animals were injected intraarticularly with dexamethasone linker hydrogel prodrug 10c (4.6
  mg dexamethasone content) in 350 gl citrate buffer pH 6.5 or with 350 pl citrate buffer alone.
  At time points blood was withdrawn and dexamethasone plasma concentration was
  determined as described in Materials and Methods. Eight weeks after injection, animals were
0 sacrificed. The severity of macroscopic changes on cartilage of the right knee were graded by
  India Ink uptake. Intact cartilage shows no ink uptake, while increasing damage of cartilage
  correlates with increasing uptake of ink. In the dexamethasone group, the evaluable animals
  showed less signs of cartilage degradation compared to the control group. Furthermore hardly
  any signs of osteophyte formation was observed in dexamethasone group in contrast to the
5 control group, which showed clear and intense formation of osteophytes. PK data show a
  burstless and steady dexamethasone release profile over eight weeks (Fig. 1).
  Example 15
  Synthesis of linker reagent 11c
0 Linker reagent 11c was synthesized according to the following scheme:

        WO 2014/056915                              152                                    PCT/EP2013/070949
       FmocHN            OH             H2N               NHBOC               H2N             N         NHBoc
                                       Oxyma pure, DCC, collidine                             H
                                                2. DBU                                             11a
                    OtBu                                                                 OtBu
                                                                        1. 6-Acetylthio-hexanoic acid,
                                                                          Oxyma pure, DCC, collidine
                                                                        2. TFA, TES, H2 0
                            SAc
      1                                   1. (5-Methyl-2-oxo-1,3-dioxol-4-yl)
                                                                                                       SAc
                                H             methyl 4-nitrophenyl carbonate,
        HN                                               DIPEA                   1
                   H                               2. NHS, DCC, DMAP
                                   0                        N
                                     O                                                      OH
                      0                     0
   Synthesis of 11a:
 5 Fmoc-L-Asp(OtBu)-OH (1.00 g, 2.43 mmol) was dissolved with DCC (0.70 g, 3.33 mmol) in
   DCM (25 mL). Oxyma pure (0.51 g, 3.58 mmol) and collidine (0.50 mL, 3.58 mmol) were
   added in one portion and a solution of N-Boc-ethylenediamine (0.41 g, 2.56 mmol) in DCM
   (15 mL) was added slowly. After stirring the mixture for 90 min at RT the formed precipitate
   was filtered off and the filtrate washed with aqueous HCl (0.1 M, 50 mL). The aqueous layer
10 was extracted with DCM (2 x 20 mL) and the combined organic fractions were washed with
   sat. aqueous NaHCO 3 (3 x 25 mL) and brine (1 x 50 mL), dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered and
   concentrated in vacuo. The crude solid was purified by flash chromatography. The
   intermediate N-boc-N' -(N-fmoc-4-tert.-butyl-L-aspartoyl)-ethylenediamine was obtained as
   white solid (0.98 g, 1.77 mmol, 73%).
15 MS: m/z 554.29    =  [M+H]*, (calculated     =  554.29).
   N-boc-N' -(N-fmoc-4-tert.-butyl-L-aspartoyl)-ethylenediamine                (0.98    g,   1.77    mmol) was
   dissolved in THF (15 mL), DBU (0.31 mL) was added and the solution was stirred for 12 min
   at RT. The reaction was quenched with AcOH (0.5 ml), concentrated in vacuo and the residue
20 purified by flash chromatography to give 11a (0.61 g, 1.77 mmol, 73 % over 2 steps) as white
   solid.
   MS: m/z 332.38    =  [M+H]*, (calculated     =  332.22).

       WO 2014/056915                           153                            PCT/EP2013/070949
   Synthesis of 11b:
   6-Acetylthiohexanoic acid (0.37 g, 1.95 mmol) was dissolved in DCM (19.5 mL) and Oxyma
   pure (0.35 g, 2.48 mmol) and DCC (0.40 g, 1.95 mmol) added in one portion. The solution
   was stirred for 30 min at RT, filtered, and the filtrate added to a solution of 11a (0.61 g, 1.77
 5 mmol) in DCM (10.5 mL). DIPEA (0.46 mL, 2.66 mmol) was added to the solution and the
   reaction stirred for 2 h at RT. The solution was washed with aqueous H2 SO 4 (0.1 M, 2 x 30
   mL), sat. aqueous NaHCO 3 (2 x 20 mL) and brine (1 x 20 mL). The organic layer was dried
   over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude material was purified by flash
   chromatography          to    give     N-boc-N' -(N-6-acetylthiohexyl-4-tert. -butyl-L-aspartoyl)
 0 ethylenediamine (0.65 g, 1.30 mmol, 73% over 2 steps) as white solid.
   MS: m/z 504.27      = [M+H]*, (calculated = 504.28).
   N-boc-N'-(N-6-Acetylthiohexyl-4-tert.-butyl-L-aspartoyl)-ethylenediamine         (0.60   g,   1.18
   mmol) was dissolved in TFA (5 mL) and TES (0.13 mL) and water (0.13 ml) were added. The
 5 mixture was stirred for 30 min at RT. TFA was removed in a stream of N 2, and crude 11b
   dissolved in H20/ACN 1:1 and purified by RP-HPLC.
   Yield: 0.39 g, 0.85 mmol (TFA salt), 72%.
   MS: m/z 348.25      = [M+H]*, (calculated = 348.16).
 0 Synthesis of 11c:
   11b (TFA salt, 0.38 g, 0.80 mmol) was dissolved in DMF (5 mL) and (5-methyl-2-oxo-1,3
   dioxol-4-yl)-methyl 4-nitrophenyl carbonate (0.26 g, 0.88 mmol) and DIPEA (0.28 mL, 1.6
   mmol) were added. The resulting suspension was diluted with DCM (5 mL) and stirred for 3
   h at RT. More DIPEA (0.28 mL 1.6 mmol) was added and stirring continued for 2 h. DCM
 5 was concentrated in vacuo, the residue diluted with H 20/ACN 3:1 and purified by RP-HPLC
   to give N-(5-methyl-2-oxo-1,3-dioxol-4-yl)-methyl-oxocarbonyl-N'-(N-6-acetylthiohexyl-L
   aspartyl)-ethylenediamine (0.31 g, 0.62 mmol, 77%) as colorless oil.
   MS: m/z 504.16      = [M+H]*, (calculated = 504.17).
30 N-(5-methyl-2-oxo-1,3-dioxol-4-yl)-methyl oxocarbonyl-N'-(N-6-acetylthiohexyl-L-aspartyl)
   ethylene-diamine (150 mg, 0.30 mmol) was dissolved in DCM (17.5 mL) and NHS (41 mg,
   0.36 mmol), DCC (74 mg, 0.36 mmol) and DMAP (4 mg, 0.03 mmol) were added in one
   portion. The reaction was stirred for 1 h at RT and the resulting suspension filtered. The
   precipitate was washed with a small amount of DCM and the combined filtrates concentrated
35 in vacuo. 11c was purified by RP-HPLC to give a colorless oil (144 mg, 0.24 mmol, 80%).
   MS: m/z 601.18      = [M+H]*, (calculated = 601.18).
   Example 16
   Preparation of gamma sterilized hydrogel beads 12

      WO 2014/056915                           154                        PCT/EP2013/070949
  A suspension of 523 mg hydrogel beads 3e in 10 mL 1% n-propylamine in NMP was gamma
  irradiated ( 60Co) with a dose of 30 kGy at room temperature.
  Example 17
5 Preparation of PEGylated hydrogel beads 13a and 13b
  A suspension of 523 mg of hydrogel beads 12 in 1% n-propylamine in NMP was washed five
  times with NMP and five times with DMSO. 189 mg NHS activated carboxy PEG 20kDa was
  dissolved in 3 mL DMSO (37 'C) and added to the hydrogel beads. 52 gl TMEDA in 1.5 mL
  DMSO was added and the mixture was shaken for 48 h at room temperature. Resulting
0 PEGylated hydrogel beads 13a were washed five times each with DMSO and NMP and used
  in the next reaction without further treatment.
  13b was prepared as described for 13a except for the use of 499 mg hydrogel beads 3f, 390
  mg NHS activated carboxy PEG 20 kDa and 134 gl of TMEDA.
5 Example 18
  Preparation of maleimide functionalized hydrogel beads 14a and 14b
  Hydrogel beads 13a in NMP were washed two times with 2% DIPEA in NMP. 340 mg of
  Mal-PEG6-PFP was dissolved in 2 mL NMP and added to the washed hydrogel beads 6a. The
  hydrogel suspension was incubated for 2 h at room temperature. Resulting maleimide
0 functionalized hydrogel beads 14a were washed five times each with NMP, water,
  water/ethanol p.a. 1/1 and ethanol p.a. Hydrogel beads 14a were dried at 0.1 mbar to constant
  weight. A maleimide content of 0.048 mmol/g was obtained.
  14b was prepared as described for 14a except for the use of hydrogel beads 13b and 450 mg
  of Mal-PEG6-PFP. A maleimide content of 0.104 mmol/g was obtained.
5
  Example 19
  Synthesis of deprotected IL-1ra-linker 15c
  Deprotected IL-Ira-linker 15c was synthesized according to the following scheme:

          WO 2014/056915                              155                              PCT/EP2013/070949
                             SAc                                                            SAc
        o                                                              O
          H     ~H                 N/ O O          L-L-RRA    NH 2       HH                         /
                            O               O                 15a                 NHH
          0                 aqueous                         buffer                   0           0
                                                  pH 7.4
                                                     SH
                                                                      S-S                15b
                                            0                                                           0
             +7mMN2H              HH                        NH
                                                        SH
                                        IL-1raINH                                 NH
         + 70mM NH20H H                           H2
      Synthesis of oxidized IL-1ra 15a
      1000 mg IL-lra (Kineret*, 10 ready to use syringes, 7450 pL solution) was diluted with 30
 5    mL PBSTE buffer. A solution of 57.4 mg 5,5'-Dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) in 3.54 mL of
      0.5 M phosphate buffer pH 7.4 was added. Mixture was incubated for 1 h at room temperature
      and oxidized IL-lra 15a (formation of internal disulfide bridge) was buffer exchanged to
      PBSTE buffer.
      MS: m/z 1726.54    = [M+10H],       (calculated   =  1726.56).
[0
      Complete IL-lra oxidation (formation of internal disulfide bridge) can be confirmed in the
      maleimide reactivity test. Oxidized IL-lra 15a lacks maleimide reactivity due to blocking of a
      reactive cysteine, while IL-lra shows complete conversion with a maleimide reagent in a 1/1
      ratio.
   15 Maleimide reactivity test: 2 pl IL-lra solution (23.9 mg/mL) is diluted with 20 pl PBSTE and
      reacted for 10 mn with 1.2 pl of 7.5 mg N-Maleoyl-beta-alanine/mL 0.5 M phosphate buffer
      pH 7.4). As determined by LCMS, IL-lra showed complete conversion with the maleimide in
      a 1/1 ratio, while oxidized IL-lra 15a lacked reactivity.
      MS (IL-ira + maleimide reagent): m/z 1743.61         = [M+10H],        (calculated = 1743.67).
20    MS (oxidized IL-ira 15a): m/z 1726.54        = [M+10H]       , (calculated =  1726.56).

       WO 2014/056915                             156                           PCT/EP2013/070949
   Synthesis of deprotected IL-1ra-linker 15c
   6 mg of linker reagent 11c was dissolved in 100 gL DMSO to yield a concentration of 100
   mM. 115 g (0.5 molar equivalent of linker reagent 11c relative to the amount of IL-Ira) was
   added to a solution of IL-Ira 15a in PBSTE buffer (17.98 mg/mL, 22.3 mL). The reaction
 5 mixture was mixed carefully and incubated for 5 min at room temperature. Subsequently, 2
   additional 0.5 molar equivalents of linker reagent 11c were added and after addition of each
   equivalent the reaction mixture was incubated for 5 min at room temperature yielding a
   mixture of IL-Ira 15a and the protected IL-Ira-linker monoconjugate 15b. The ratio of IL-Ira
   15a and the protected IL-ira-linker monoconjugate 15b is approx. 2/1 as determined by MS
 0 [M+10H]1 0 . Buffer was exchanged to pH 6.5 citrate buffer. A final volume of 22 mL was
   obtained.
   MS (protected IL-ira-linker 15b): m/z 1775.05      = [M+10H]1 0 , (calculated = 1775.07).
   To remove the protecting groups from 15b, 0.5 M NH 2OH in pH 6.5 citrate buffer (NH 2OH
 5 Hydrochloride dissolved in pH 6.5 citrate buffer, adjusted to pH 6.50 by adding 4 N NaOH)
   was added to a final concentration of 70 mM NH 2OH to the solution of 15b in 22 mL citrate
   buffer pH 6.5. The deprotection reaction was incubated at room temperature for 6 h yielding a
   mixture of deprotected IL-ira-linker conjugate 15c and IL-ira 15a. The mixture was
   concentrated (Centrifugal Filter Units, Amicon Ultra 15, MWCO 10 kDa), buffer exchanged
 0 to pH 6.5 citrate buffer and filtered sterile through 0.22 gm syringe filter.
   A final volume of 15 mL and an overall protein concentration of 22.06 mg/mL of the different
   IL-ira species were obtained. The ratio of IL-ira 15a and the deprotected IL-ira-linker
   conjugate 15c is approx. 2/1 as determined by MS [M+I0H]1 0 .
   MS (deprotected IL-ira-linker 15c): m/z 1755.29      = [M+I0H]1 0 , (calculated = 1755.24).
 5
   Example 20
   Synthesis of IL-1ra-linker-hydrogel prodrug 16a and 16b
   33 mg maleimide functionalized hydrogel beads 14a were washed five times with pH 6.5
   citrate buffer. 3.4 mL of the IL-ira 15a/IL-Ira-linker conjugate 15c mixture in pH 6.5 citrate
30 buffer (22.06 mg overall protein content/mL) were added to the hydrogel and shaken
   overnight at room temperature. Hydrogel was washed 5 times with pH 6.5 citrate buffer. In
   order to quench residual maleimide groups, a solution of 2.4 gl mercaptoethanol in 3 mL pH
   6.5 citrate buffer was added to the hydrogel and shaken for 1 h. Hydrogel was washed five
   times with pH 6.5 citrate buffer. Reduction of IL-Ira disulfide was performed by washing the
35 hydrogel three times with DTT solution (0.1 M DTT in 90 % PBSTE and 10 % 0.5 M
   phosphate buffer pH 7.4, adjusted to pH 7.4). 3 mL DTT solution were drawn to the hydrogel
   and the suspension was incubated for 1 d at 37 'C. Hydrogel was washed twelve times with
   pH 6.5 citrate buffer. IL-ira linker hydrogel prodrug 16a was transferred in a tared vial and
   diluted with pH 6.5 citrate buffer in order to obtain a free flowing suspension.

       WO 2014/056915                          157                          PCT/EP2013/070949
   IL-IRA loading of hydrogel was determined by analyzing aliquots of IL-Ira linker hydrogel
   prodrug 16a by quantitative amino acid analysis (QAAA).
   A loading of 0.67 mg IL1RA/mg hydrogel was obtained.
                                                                                    0
                                          0
                        SH
                                           N-hydrogel                        S       N - hydrogel
                                   .
       HN                 NH2          aqueous buffer          HN   KN          NH2
                                       pH 6.5                           H
            "Y NH                 2.   0.1 M DTT
                                                                        0
     I-1r             15c              pH 7.4                        NH        6a
     S-S                                                   IF
                                                             SH SH
 5 IL-Ira linker hydrogel prodrug 16b was sythesized accordingly except for the use of II mg
   hydrogel beads 14b, 3.5 mL of the IL-ira 15a/IL-Ira-linker conjugate 15c mixture in pH 6.5
   citrate buffer (22.06 mg/mL) and 0.8 gl mercaptoethanol.
   A loading of 1.64 mg ILIRA/mg hydrogel was obtained.
 0 Example 21
   In vitro release kinetics - determination of in vitro half-life
   Aliquots of IL-ira-linker-hydrogel prodrug 16a or 16b (containing approximately 5 mg IL
   Ira) were washed five times with PBSTE buffer and incubated in ca. 1 mL PBSTE at 37 'C.
   The buffer was exchanged after different time intervals and released IL-Ira was quantified by
15 SEC-HPLC at 220 nm. Peaks corresponding to liberated IL-ira were integrated and the total
   amount of liberated IL-ira was plotted against total incubation time. Curve fitting software
   (Graphpad Prism 5.04) was applied to determine first-order cleavage rates. A release half life
   time of 6 weeks was obtained.
   Identity of released IL-ira was confirmed by SEC-HPLC and MS. Released IL-ira was
20 reactive in the maleimide test (Example 19), thus confirming successful reduction of disulfide
   bond of oxidized IL-Ira on hydrogel.
   Example 22
   Chondroprotective effect of intra-articular injection of IL-1ra linker hydrogel prodrug
25 in ACLT-induced arthritic rabbits
   Arthritis was induced in 24 weeks old female Hyla NG rabbits (average weight 4.4 kg) by
   anterior cruciate ligament transection (ACLT) of the right knee. Four days after surgery
   animals were injected intraarticularly with IL-Ira linker hydrogel prodrug 16a (7.5 mg IL-Ira

       WO 2014/056915                           158                          PCT/EP2013/070949
   content) in 350 gl citrate buffer pH 6.5 or with 350 gl citrate buffer alone. Eight weeks after
   injection, animals were sacrificed. The severity of macroscopic changes on cartilage of the
   right knee were graded by India Ink uptake. Intact cartilage shows no ink uptake, while
   increasing damage of cartilage correlates with increasing uptake of ink. In the IL-Ira group,
 5 the cartilage showed much less signs of degradation compared to the control group.
   Osteophyte formation on the medial condyle was less intense in the IL-Ira group compared to
   control group. In contrast to the control group, no signs of osteophyte formation were
   observed in the tibial plateau of the IL-Ira group.
 0
 5
 0
 5
30
35

      WO 2014/056915                        159                         PCT/EP2013/070949
   Abbreviations:
   ACLT              anterior crutiate ligament transection
   AcOH              acetic acid
   AcOEt             ethyl acetate
 5 Bn                benzyl
   Boc               t-butyloxycarbonyl
   DBU               1,3-diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undecene
   DCC               NN-dicyclohexylcarbodiimid
   DCM               dichloromethane
 0 DIPEA             diisopropylethylamine
   DMAP              dimethylamino-pyridine
   DMF               N,N-dimethylformamide
   DMSO              dimethylsulfoxide
   DTT               DL dithiotreitol
 5 EDC               1-Ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimid
   EDTA              ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid
   eq                stoichiometric equivalent
   EtOH              ethanol
   Fmoc              9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl
 0 HPLC              high performance liquid chromatography
   HOBt              N-hydroxybenzotriazole
   iPrOH             2-propanol
   LCMS              mass spectrometry-coupled liquid chromatography
   Mal               3-maleimido propyl
 5 Mal-PEG6-NHS      N-(3 -maleimidopropyl)-2 1-amino-4,7,10,13,16,19-hexaoxa
                     heneicosanoic acid NHS ester
   Me                methyl
   MeOH              methanol
   Mint              4-methoxytrityl
30 MS                mass spectrum / mass spectrometry
   MTBE              methyl tert. -butyl ether
   MW                molecular mass
   NHS                N-hydroxy succinimide
   PBSTE              Phosphate buffered saline with Tween and EDTA
35 PEG                poly(ethylene glycol)
   PyBOP              benzotriazole-1-yl-oxy-tris-pyrrolidino-phosphonium
                      hexafluorophosphate
   RP-HPLC           reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography
   rpm               rounds per minute

      WO 2014/056915                       160                   PCT/EP2013/070949
  RT                 room temperature
  SEC                size exclusion chromatography
  TCEP               tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine hydrochloride
  TES                triethylsilane
5 TFA                trifluoroacetic acid
  THF                tetrahydrofurane
  TMEDA              N,N,N'N'-tetramethylethylene diamine
  Trt                triphenylmethyl, trityl
  UPLC               ultra performance liquid chromatography
0 v                  volume
5

                                               161
                                             Claims
   1. A polymeric prodrug when used in the prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment of a
 5    disease of the joint, and when used for intra-articular injection, wherein the polymeric
      prodrug comprises a water-insoluble polymeric carrier comprising at least one
      polymer, wherein one or more biologically active moieties are reversibly conjugated
      through reversible prodrug linker moieties to said polymeric carrier and from which
      polymeric carrier the one or more biologically active moieties are released in their free
 0    form and wherein the polymeric prodrug is a conjugate of formula (XIX):
                                           R     R
                                   1
                               Yi-Q-        1-       O-D
                                           R_ n R'            (MX)
              wherein, D is a carboxyl-comprising biologically active moiety comprising 0;
 5
              R' is selected from the group of unsubstituted alkyl; substituted alkyl;
              unsubstituted phenyl; substituted phenyl; unsubstituted naphthyl; substituted
              naphthyl; unsubstituted indenyl; substituted indenyl; unsubstituted indanyl;
              substituted indanyl; unsubstituted tetralinyl; substituted tetralinyl; unsubstituted
 0            C3 -10 cycloalkyl; substituted C3-io cycloalkyl; unsubstituted 4- to 7-membered
              heterocyclyl; substituted 4- to 7-membered heterocyclyl; unsubstituted 9- to
              11 -membered heterobicyclyl;         and substituted 9- to 11 -membered
              heterobicyclyl;
25            R2 is selected from H, unsubstituted alkyl, and substituted alkyl;
              R3 and R4 are independently selected from the group consisting of H,
              unsubstituted alkyl, and substituted alkyl;
30           Q is a spacer moiety;
             n is 0 or 1;

                                             162
              optionally, R' and R3 are joined together with the atoms to which they are
              attached to form a ring A;
              A is selected from the group consisting of C3-10 cycloalkyl; 4- to 7-membered
 5            aliphatic heterocyclyl;   and 9- to 11-membered         aliphatic heterobicyclyl,
              wherein A is unsubstituted or substituted;
              Y' is the polymeric carrier.
 o 2. The polymeric prodrug of claim 1, wherein the polymeric carrier comprises,
      preferably consists of, a hydrogel.
   3. The polymeric prodrug of claims 1 or 2, wherein the polymeric carrier comprises,
      preferably consists of, a PEG-based hydrogel.
 5
   4. The polymeric prodrug of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the polymeric carrier
      comprises, preferably consists of, a hyaluronic acid-based hydrogel.
   5. The polymeric prodrug of any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the hydrogel is in the
 0    shape of microparticles.
   6. The polymeric prodrug of any one of claims 2 to 5, wherein the hydrogel is in the
      shape of microparticulate beads having a diameter of 1 to 1000 pim.
25 7. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a polymeric prodrug of any one of claims 1
      to 6, and optionally one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients,
      a) when used in the prevention, diagnosis and/or treatment of a disease of the joint,
          and/or
      b) when used for intra-articular injection.
30
   8. The polymeric prodrug or pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 7,
      wherein the disease of the joint is selected from infectious arthropathies (MOO-M03),
      inflammatory polyarthropathies       (M05-M14),    arthrosis   (M15-Mi9),    other joint
      disorders   (M20-M25),     and   systemic   connective   tissue   disorders (M30-M36),

                                              163
      dorsopathies (M40-M54),        soft tissue disorders (M60-M79),     osteopathies and
      chondropathies (M80-M94).
  9.  The polymeric prodrug or pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 8,
5     wherein the one or more biologically active moieties are selected from the group
      consisting of (i) non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), (ii) disease
      modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs), (iii) corticosteroids, and (iv) biologics.
  10. The polymeric prodrug or pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 9,
0     wherein the one or more biologically active moiety is IL-Ira.
  11. A method of preventing and/or treating a disease of the joint, wherein said method
      comprises the step of administering a therapeutically effective amount of a polymeric
      prodrug or pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 10 to a patient in
5     need thereof by intra-articular injection.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
