                                                ABSTRACT
      A radio receiver circuit (10) configurable to operate in a carrier-aggregation, CA, mode
   and in a non-CA mode is disclosed. It comprises a first receive path (30) arranged to be
   operatively connected to an antenna (15) and a second receive path (40) arranged to be
 5 operatively connected to the same antenna (15). It further comprises a control unit (50)
   operatively connected to the first receive path (30) and the second receive path (40). In the
   CA mode, the control unit (50) controls the first receive path (30) to receive a first CC (6) and
   the second receive path to receive a second CC (8). In the non-CA mode, the control unit (50)
   selectively controls the first receive path (30) and the second receive path (40) to both receive
10 the same single CC (6).
      To be published together with Fig. 5.

WO 2016/037649                                                    PCT/EP2014/069280
                                              2/6
         15                                           15
               radio receiver circuit                      radio receiver circuit
              Lr        10                              L10
      20                                            20
                                                      15'
                                                           radio receiver circuit
                              Fig .3
                                                        L    r10'
                                                    20'
                                                             Fig. 4
                                                           10
                        32                             34
                                 first receive path
                                                            72
    20         60
                                       ctrl unit                   processing
                                          50                        circuitry
                                                  0                    70
                        42                             44
                               second receive path
                                                            74
                                          Fig. 5

                                                   I
       RADIO RECEIVER FOR CARRIER AGGREGATION
       This application has been divided out of Australian patent application 2014405866
   (AU 2014405866). In the description in this specification reference may be made to subject
   matter which is not within the scope of the appended claims. That subject matter should be
 5 readily identifiable by a person skilled in the art and may assist in putting into practice the
   invention as defined in the appended claims.
       AU 2014405866 is the national phase entry in Australia of PCT international
   application PCT/EP2014/069280 (published as WO 2016/037649 Al). The full disclosure
   of WO 2016/037649 is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
10     Technical field
       The present invention relates to radio receiver circuits capable of operation in carrier
   aggregation scenarios.
       Background
       In cellular communications networks, wireless terminals, sometimes referred to as UEs
15 (User Equipment), communicate wirelessly with base stations of the cellular
   communications network. In the downlink, from the base station to the UE, the UE may
   receive signals in a single frequency band associated with a single radio-frequency (RF)
   carrier. In order to improve the capacity (e.g. in terms of downlink bitrate), the concept of
   carrier aggregation (CA) has been introduced in 3GPP (3rd Generation Partnership
20 Program) standards. Using CA, the UE may simultaneously receive a plurality of RF
   carriers. These RF carriers are normally referred to as component carriers, or CCs. On each
   CC there is modulated an information signal, e.g. an OFDMA (Orthogonal Frequency
   Division Multiple Access) signal or a CDMA (Code-Division Multiple Access) signal,
   carrying payload data and/or control information. The CCs may be located within the same
25 operating frequency band, in which case the CA is referred to as intra-band CA.
   Alternatively, the CCs may be located within different operating frequency bands, in which
   case the CA is referred to as inter-band CA. For intra-band CA, the plurality of CCs may
   be located contiguously (in frequency), in which case the CA is referred to as contiguous
   CA, or may be non-contiguously located (in frequency) with frequency gaps in between, in
30 which case the CA is referred to as non-contiguous CA. In one scenario, the UE may be
   allocated a primary CC (PCC) associated with a primary cell (PCell) of the cellular
   communications network. When an increase in downlink capacity is needed, for whatever
   10476655 1.docx

                                                  2
   reason, the UE may additionally be allocated one or more secondary CCs (SCCs)
   associated with respective secondary cells (SCells).
       One solution for enabling the UE to receive a plurality of CCs, particularly in a non
   contiguous CA scenario, is to use a receiver circuit with a plurality of receive paths, each
 5 connected to the same antenna, e.g. via a common low-noise amplifier (LNA). Each
   receive path may be responsible for reception of a particular one of the plurality of CCs.
   For example, each receive path may be of direct-conversion type, comprising a mixer unit
   driven by an LO signal having a frequency selected such that the mixer unit directly down
   converts the particular CC to base band. The LO-signal frequency of each processing path
10 may thus be selected in dependence of the RF frequency of the CC it is set to receive.
       Summary
      Embodiments of the present invention are based on an insight that receiver circuitry
   intended for CA operation may be efficiently reused in non-CA (or "single carrier")
   operation for boosting the performance.
15    According to a first aspect, there is provided a radio receiver circuit configurable to
   operate in a CA mode, wherein the radio receiver circuit is to receive a plurality of
   component carriers (CCs), and in a non-CA mode, wherein the radio receiver circuit is to
   receive a single CC. The radio receiver circuit comprises a first receive path arranged to be
   operatively connected to an antenna and a second receive path arranged to be operatively
20 connected to the same antenna. Furthermore, the radio receiver circuit comprises a control
   unit operatively connected to the first receive path and the second receive path. The control
   unit is adapted to, in the CA mode, control the first receive path to receive a first CC of
   said plurality of CCs and control the second receive path to receive a second CC, separate
   from the first CC, of said plurality of CCs. Moreover, the control unit is adapted to, in the
25 non-CA mode, selectively control the first receive path and the second receive path to both
   receive the same single CC.
       The radio receiver circuit may comprise a low-noise amplifier arranged to operatively
   connect both the first receive path and the second receive path to the antenna.
       The first receive path may comprise a mixer unit arranged to be driven by a first local
30 oscillator (LO) signal. The second receive path may comprise a mixer unit arranged to be
   driven by a second LO signal. The control unit may be adapted to, in the CA mode, control
   the frequency of the first LO signal to enable reception of the first CC by the first receive
   10476655 1.docx

                                                   3
   path and control the frequency of the second LO signal to enable reception of the second
   CC by the second receive path.
       The control unit may be adapted to, in the non-CA mode and in order to enable
   reception of the same single CC by both the first receive path and the second receive path,
 5 control the frequency of the first LO signal to be the same as the frequency of the second
   LO signal.
       The radio receiver circuit may comprise processing circuitry arranged to, in the non-CA
   mode, combine an output signal of the first receive path with an output signal of the second
   receive path, thereby generating a combined output signal. The control unit may be
10 adapted to, in the non-CA mode, control at least one of a gain and a frequency bandwidth
   of the first receive path to be the same as that of the second receive path when the first
   receive path and the second receive path are controlled to both receive the same signal in
   said single frequency band
       The radio receiver circuit may comprise processing circuitry arranged to, in the non-CA
15 mode, separately process an output signal of the first receive path and an output signal of
   the second receive path, thereby generating a first processed signal and a second processed
   signal, respectively. The control unit may be adapted to, in the non-CA mode, control a
   gain of one of the first receive path and the second receive path to be higher than a gain of
   the other one of the first receive path and the second receive path when the first receive
20 path and the second receive path are controlled to both receive the same single CC. The
   processing circuitry may be arranged to perform signal-strength measurements on the
   output signal from the first receive path and on the output signal from the second receive
   path, for example to determine a gain setting to be used during further reception in the non
   CA mode.
25     The control unit may be adapted to, in the non-CA mode, selectively disable the second
   receive path.
       The radio receiver circuit may be adapted to operate in a cellular communication
   system.
      According to a second aspect, there is provided a radio communication apparatus
30 comprising a radio receiver circuit according to the first aspect and an antenna, to which
   both the first receive path and the second receive path of the radio receiver circuit are
   operatively connected.
   10476655 1.docx

                                                    4
       The radio communication apparatus may be a terminal for a cellular communication
   system. The terminal may for example be a mobile telephone, a tablet computer, a portable
   computer, or a machine-type communication device.
      According to a third aspect, there is provided a method of operating a radio receiver
 5 circuit configurable to operate in a CA mode, wherein the radio receiver circuit is to
   receive a plurality of component carriers (CCs), and in a non-CA mode, wherein the radio
   receiver circuit is to receive a single CC. The radio receiver circuit comprises a first
   receive path operatively connected to an antenna, a second receive path operatively
   connected to the same antenna, and a control unit operatively connected to the first receive
10 path and the second receive path. The method comprises controlling, in the CA mode and
   by the control unit, the first receive path to receive a first CC of said plurality of CCs and
   the second receive path to receive a second CC, separate from the first CC, of said plurality
   of CCs. Furthermore, the method comprises selectively controlling, in the non-CA mode
   and by the control unit, the first receive path and the second receive path to both receive
15 the same single CC.
      According to a fourth aspect, there is provided a computer program product comprising
   computer program code for executing the method according to the third aspect when said
   computer program code is executed by the control unit of the radio receiver circuit
      According to a fifth aspect, there is provided a computer readable medium (such as a
20 non-transitory computer readable medium) having stored thereon a computer program
   product comprising computer program code for executing the method according to the
   third aspect when said computer program code is executed by the control unit of the radio
   receiver circuit. The computer readable medium may e.g. be a non-transitory computer
   readable medium.
25    Further embodiments are defined in the dependent claims. It should be emphasized that
   the term "comprises/comprising" when used in this specification is taken to specify the
   presence of stated features, integers, steps, or components, but does not preclude the
   presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, components, or groups
   thereof.
30    Brief description of the drawings
      Further features and advantages of embodiments of the invention will appear from the
   following detailed description, reference being made to the accompanying drawings, in
   which:
   10476655 1.docx

                                                   5
       Figs. 1-2 illustrate scenarios in which embodiments of the present invention may be
   employed;
       Figs. 3-8 show block diagrams according to embodiments of the present invention;
       Figs. 9-10 show flow charts according to embodiments of the present invention; and
 5     Fig. II schematically illustrates a computer-readable medium and a control unit.
       Detailed description
       Figs. 1 and 2 illustrate communication environments wherein embodiments of the
   present invention may be employed.
       In Fig. 1, a radio-communication apparatus 1, illustrated as a terminal I for a cellular
10 communication system, is in wireless communication with a cellular communication
   system in a carrier aggregation (CA) mode. In the figures, the terminal I is depicted as a
   mobile telephone (or "cellular telephone", such as a so called smartphone), but it can also
   be any other type of terminal for a cellular communication system, such as a tablet
   computer, a portable computer, or a machine-type communication device (e.g. a sensor,
15 sensor system, or similar arranged to communicate via a cellular communication system).
   For brevity, the radio-communication apparatus 1 is in the following referred to as "the
   terminal 1". In the CA mode, a radio-receiver circuit (further described below) of the
   terminal 1 is arranged to receive a plurality of (downlink) component carriers (CCs), which
   may be contiguous or non-contiguous. Normally, one of the CCs is a PCC of a PCell
20 (described in the background section above), and the other CCs are SCCs of SCells (also
   described in the background section above). In Fig. 2, the plurality of CCs comprises a first
   frequency CC 6 at a first (RF) carrier frequency fl and a second CC 8, which is separate
   from the first CC 6, at a second (RF) carrier frequency f2. The first CC 6 may e.g. be the
   PCC, and the second CC 8 may e.g. be an SCC, or vice versa. In general, as there may be
25 more than one SCell, there may be more than two CCs in the plurality of CCs. In Fig. 1,
   the first CC 6 is illustrated as transmitted from a first base station 2, and the second CC 8 is
   illustrated as transmitted from a second base station 3, but in general they may also be
   transmitted from the same base station. The base station or base stations 2, 3 may e.g. be
   from the group of macro base stations, such as a NodeB of a UTRAN (Universal
30 Terrestrial Radio Access Network) or an eNodeB of an eUTRAN (evolved UTRAN),
   micro, pico, and femto base stations, but may also be other kinds of current or future base
   stations. Furthermore, in Fig. 1, the first and second CCs 6,8 are illustrated as non
   10476655 1.docx

                                                     6
   contiguous (or non-adjacent) CCs having a frequency gap between them, but in other
   embodiments or scenarios, they may be contiguous (or adjacent) CCs.
       In Fig. 2, the terminal 1 is in wireless communication with the cellular communication
   system in a non-CA mode. In the non-CA mode, the radio receiver circuit of the terminal 1
 5 is arranged to receive a single CC. In Fig. 2, the single CC is illustrated as the same CC as
   the first CC 6 from the first base station 2 in Fig. 1, but may well be some other CC (such
   as but not limited to the second CC 8 in Fig. 1) and/or from some other base station (such
   as but not limited to the second base station 3 in Fig. 1).
       Fig. 3 shows a simplified block diagram of a part of the terminal I according to an
10 embodiment. The above-mentioned radio receiver circuit is denoted with reference number
    10. It is operatively connected to an antenna 15 of the terminal 10 via an antenna port 20 of
   the radio receiver circuit 10. The terminal I may naturally also comprise many other parts
   as well, such as one or more transmitters, one or more processors, input and output devices
   (e.g. buttons, displays, touchscreens, etc), etc. For simplicity, such other parts are not
15 shown in Fig. 3.
       In Fig. 3, the terminal 1 is illustrated as having a single antenna 15. In other
   embodiments, the terminal 1 may have multiple antennas. For example, the terminal 1 may
   have multiple receive antennas for diversity reception. This is illustrated in Fig. 4, which
   shows a simplified block diagram of another embodiment of the terminal 1. As in the
20 embodiment of Fig. 1, the embodiment of the terminal I in Fig. 4 comprises the radio
   receiver circuit 10 operatively connected to the antenna 15 of the terminal 1 via the
   antenna port 20 of the radio receiver circuit 10. In addition, the terminal I comprises
   another radio receiver circuit 10' and another antenna 15', wherein the radio receiver
   circuit 10' is operatively connected to the antenna 15' of the terminal 1 via an antenna port
25 20' of the radio receiver circuit 10'. In the following, embodiments of the radio receiver
   circuit 10 are described. The radio receiver circuit 10' may e.g. be designed in the same
   way as the radio receiver circuit 10.
       Fig. 5 shows a block diagram of an embodiment of the radio receiver circuit 10. As
   indicated above, the radio receiver circuit 10 is configurable to operate in a CA mode,
30 wherein the radio receiver circuit 10 is to receive a plurality of CCs, such as the CCs 6 and
   8 (Fig. 1). Furthermore, the radio receiver circuit 10 is configurable to operate in a non-CA
   mode, wherein the radio receiver circuit 10 is to receive a single CC, such as the CC 6
   10476655 1.docx

                                                     7
   (Fig. 2). The radio receiver circuit 10 may for example be adapted to operate in a cellular
   communication system.
       The radio receiver circuit 10 comprises a first receive path 30 arranged to be operatively
   connected to the antenna. In the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 5, the first receive path 30
 5 has an input port 32 arranged to be operatively connected to the antenna 15. Furthermore,
   in the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 5, the first receive path 30 has an output port 34
   arranged to provide an output signal of the first receive path 30.
       Furthermore, the radio receiver circuit 10 comprises a second receive path 40 arranged
   to be operatively connected to the same antenna 15. In the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 5,
10 the second receive path 40 has an input port 42 arranged to be operatively connected to the
   antenna 15. Furthermore, in the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 5, the second receive path
   40 has an output port 44 arranged to provide an output signal of the second receive path 40.
       In the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 5, the radio receiver circuit 10 comprises an LNA
   (Low-Noise Amplifier) 60 common to the first receive path 30 and the second receive path
15 40. The LNA 60 is arranged to operatively connect both the first receive path 30 and the
   second receive path 40 to the antenna 15, via the antenna port 20 of the radio receiver
   circuit 10. In other embodiments, the radio receiver circuit 10 may comprise separate
   LNAs arranged to operatively connect the first receive path 30 and the second receive path
   40, respectively, to the antenna 15, via the antenna port 20 of the radio receiver circuit 10.
20     The radio receiver circuit 10 further comprises a control unit 50 operatively connected
   to the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 for controlling the operation of
   the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40. Moreover, in the embodiment
   illustrated in Fig. 5, the radio receiver circuit 10 comprises processing circuitry 70
   operatively connected to the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 and
25 arranged to process the output signals from the first receive path 30 and the second receive
   path 40. As illustrated in Fig. 5, the processing circuitry 70 may have an input port 72
   connected to the output port 34 of the first receive path 30, and an input port 74 connected
   to the output port 44 of the second receive path 40. The processing circuitry 70 may for
   example comprise, be, or be part of a digital signal processor, such as a baseband processor
30 of the radio receiver circuit 10. Similarly, the control unit 50 may comprise, be, or be part
   of a digital signal processor, such as a baseband processor of the radio receiver circuit 10,
   potentially the same digital signal processor as for the processing circuitry 70 mentioned in
   the preceding sentence.
   10476655 1.docx

                                                   8
       The control unit 50 is adapted to, in the CA mode, control the first receive path 30 to
   receive a first CC 6 of said plurality of frequency bands and control the second receive
   path to receive a second CC 8 of said plurality of CCs. The processing circuitry 70 can
   then process the output signals from the first receive path 30 and the second receive path
 5 40, e.g. according to well-known techniques, including for example demodulation and
   decoding of the output signals, to recover the data transmitted on the signals in the
   respective frequency bands.
       The inventors have realized that, in the non-CA mode, hardware used for CA-reception
   in the CA mode can be efficiently reused for increasing the dynamic range of the radio
10 receiver circuit 10 in situations where such an increased dynamic range is needed.
   Examples of such situations identified by the inventors are situations where the received
   signal is relatively weak, situations with presence of blocking interferer(s), and during
   signal measurements when the strength of the received signal is initially unknown to the
   radio receiver circuit 10. This can be achieved by, in the non-CA mode, controlling both
15 the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 to both receive the same single CC
   6. There are different alternatives for how the processing circuitry 70 can process the
   output signals from the first receive path and the second receive path, examples of which
   are described further below in the context of various embodiments. Accordingly, in
   accordance with embodiments of the present invention, the control unit 50 is adapted to, in
20 the non-CA mode, selectively control the first receive path 30 and the second receive path
   40 to both receive the same single CC 6.
       Using both the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 to both receive the
   same single CC 6 leads to a higher power consumption compared with using only one of
   the receive paths (say the first receive path 30) while disabling the other receive path (say
25 the second receive path 40). Therefore, according to some embodiments, it is suggested to
   avoid using both the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 to both receive the
   same single CC 6 unless the additional dynamic range provided by doing so is actually
   needed. Therefore, according to some embodiments, the control unit 50 is adapted to, in
   the non-CA mode, selectively disable the second receive path 40.
30     Fig. 6 is a block diagram of an embodiment of the radio receiver circuit 10, showing
   some more details than the block diagram in Fig. 5. As illustrated in Fig. 6, the first receive
   path 30 may comprise a mixer unit 100 arranged to be driven by a first local oscillator
   (LO) signal. Furthermore, as illustrated in Fig. 6, the second receive path 40 may comprise
   10476655 1.docx

                                                  9
   a mixer unit 200 arranged to be driven by a second LO signal. To facilitate CA reception,
   the control unit 50 may be adapted to, in the CA mode, control the frequency of the first
   LO signal to enable reception of the first CC 6 by the first receive path 30 and control the
   frequency of the second LO signal to enable reception of the second CC 8 by the second
 5 receive path 40.
      In some embodiments, the first LO signal and the second LO signal are distinct LO
   signals generated by distinct LO units. For example, as illustrated in Fig. 6, the first receive
   path 30 may comprise a LO unit 110 arranged to generate the first LO signal, and the
   second receive path 40 may comprise a separate LO unit 210 arranged to generate the
10 second LO signal. The first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 may then, for
   example, both operate as direct conversion receivers. In that case, the control unit 50 may
   be adapted to, in the CA mode, control the frequency of the first LO signal and the
   frequency of the second LO signal to be equal, or approximately equal, to the center
   frequency ft of the first CC 6 and the center frequency f2 of the second CC 8, respectively.
15 Furthermore, in order to enable reception of the same single CC 6 by both the first receive
   path 30 and the second receive path 40 in the non-CA mode, the control unit 50 may be
   adapted to, in the non-CA mode, control the frequency of the first LO signal to be the same
   as the frequency of the second LO signal. This same frequency may, for instance, be equal,
   or approximately equal, to the center frequency fl of the single CC 6, in which case both
20 the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 are arranged to operate as direct
   conversion receivers.
      In some embodiments, the first LO signal and the second LO signal may, at least in the
   non-CA mode, be the same LO signal, generated by a common LO unit (e.g. the LO unit
   110 or the LO unit 210 in Fig. 6) comprised in the radio receiver circuit 10.
25     The LO units mentioned above may be any kind of suitable circuit capable of
   synthesizing the LO signals in question. For example, the LO units may be or comprise a
   phase-locked loop (PLL) or similar circuit. Such circuits are well-known in the art of radio
   receiver circuit design and are therefore not described in any further detail.
      In some embodiments, the mixer units 100 and 200 (Fig. 6) are implemented as
30 quadrature mixers. Quadrature mixers are capable of rejecting image-signal components
   generated in the down-conversion process, and are therefore beneficially used in many
   radio receiver circuits. A quadrature mixer has an in-phase (I) branch, arranged to generate
   an I output signal of the quadrature mixer and comprising a mixer, referred to as the I
   10476655 1.docx

                                                      10
   mixer, driven by an I component of the LO signal. Furthermore, a quadrature mixer has a
   quadrature-phase (Q) branch, arranged to generate a        Q output  and comprising a mixer,
   referred to as the  Q mixer, driven   by a  Q component     of the LO signal. The I and  Q
   components of the LO signal both have the same frequency, but a mutual 90-degree (or R/4
 5 rad) phase shift. An LO signal comprising an I and a        Q component   can be referred to as a
   quadrature LO signal. The LO units mentioned above might therefore be quadrature LO
   units, i.e. LO units capable of generating quadrature LO signals. Such quadrature LO units
   are well known in the art of radio receiver circuit design and therefore not described in any
   further detail.
10     As is further illustrated in Fig. 6, the first receive path 30 may comprise a filter unit 120
   operatively connected, at an input port of the filter unit 120, to an output port of the mixer
   unit 100. Furthermore, as is also illustrated in Fig. 6, the first receive path 30 may comprise
   an analog-to-digital converter (ADC) unit 130 operatively connected, at an input port of
   the ADC unit 130, to an output port of the filter unit 120. The ADC unit 130 may be
15 arranged to generate the output signal of the first receive path 30 as a digital output signal
   on the output port 34 of the first receive path 30. The filter unit 120 may be arranged to
   perform one or more of the tasks of: channel selection filtering and acting as an anti
   aliasing filtering for the ADC unit 130. In embodiments where the mixer unit 100 is a
   quadrature mixer, the filter unit 120 may comprise a separate filter for each of the I and the
20 Q branch,    and similarly, the ADC unit 130 may comprise a separate ADC for each of the I
   and Q branch.
       Similarly, as is also illustrated in Fig. 6, the second receive path 40 may comprise a
   filter unit 220 operatively connected, at an input port of the filter unit 220, to an output port
   of the mixer unit 200. Furthermore, as is also illustrated in Fig. 6, the second receive path
25 40 may comprise an ADC unit 230 operatively connected, at an input port of the ADC unit
   230, to an output port of the filter unit 220. The ADC unit 230 may be arranged to generate
   the output signal of the second receive path 40 as a digital output signal on the output port
   44 of the second receive path 40. The filter unit 220 may be arranged to perform one or
   more of the tasks of: channel selection filtering and acting as an anti-aliasing filtering for
30 the ADC unit 230. In embodiments where the mixer unit 200 is a quadrature mixer, the
   filter unit 220 may comprise a separate filter for each of the I and the     Q branch,  and
   similarly, the ADC unit 230 may comprise a separate ADC for each of the I and           Q branch.
   10476655 1.docx

                                                  11
       In some embodiments, the dynamic range (in the non-CA mode) can be increased by
   combining, or summing, the output signal of the first receive path 30 with the output signal
   of the second receive path 40, thereby generating a combined output signal. Each of the
   output signal from the first receive path 30 and the output signal from the second receive
 5 path 40 comprises a desired signal component and an undesired signal component (e.g.
   noise and distortion). When combining the output signals from the first and the second
   receive paths, the desired signal components in these output signals will combine
   constructively in the combined output signal, whereby at least uncorrelated parts (typically
   arising from noise, such as thermal noise) of the undesired signal components of these
10 output signals will be effectively suppressed compared with the desired signal components
   in the combined output signal. In order for such suppression to be efficient, the output
   signal from the first receive path and the output signal from the second receive path should
   have a relatively small mutual phase difference. For the best performance, they should be
   combined in phase with each other. In phase, in this context, does not mean "exactly in
15 phase", because that is not possible to achieve in practice, e.g. due to noise and limited
   computational precision, but should be interpreted as "approximately in phase" (within
   tolerances that depend on the implementation). With increasing mutual phase difference
   between the output signals from the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40,
   the performance gain diminishes.
20     Assuming that the gain of the first and the second receive path 30, 40 are equal and their
   output signals are combined exactly in phase (referred to below as "the ideal case"), and
   that the unwanted signal components in the output signals of the first receive path 30 and
   the second receive path 40 are uncorrelated, an improvement in dynamic range with
   approximately 3 dB is obtained compared with the individual output signal from one of the
25 first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40. If they are instead combined out-of
   phase with a phase difference   #, the magnitude  of the desired signal component in the
   combined output signal will be scaled with a factor cos(#/2) compared with the ideal case,
   and the corresponding signal power of the desired signal component will thus change with
   20 logio cos(#/2) dB compared with the ideal case, whereas the signal power of the
30 uncorrelated unwanted signal components will stay unchanged compared with the ideal
   case. Thus, also the dynamic range will change with 20 logio cos(4/2) compared with the
   ideal case. For example, if #=20 degrees, the dynamic range is reduced 0.13 dB compared
   10476655 1.docx

                                                   12
   with the ideal case. Thus, even with a relatively large phase difference such as 20 degrees,
   an improvement as large as 2,87 dB is obtainable.
       Accordingly, in some embodiments of the present invention, the processing circuitry 70
   is arranged to, in the non-CA mode, combine the output signal of the first receive path 30
 5 with the output signal of the second receive path 40, thereby generating the combined
   output signal. In some of these embodiments the processing circuitry 70 is arranged to, in
   the non-CA mode, combine the output signal of the first receive path 30 in phase with the
   output signal of the second receive path 40, thereby generating the combined output signal.
       Fig. 7 illustrates an embodiment of the processing circuitry 70 arranged to combine the
10 output signal from the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40. As illustrated in
   Fig. 7, the processing circuitry 70 may comprise a phase adjust unit 310 adapted to adjust
   the phase of the output signal from the first receive path 30. Additionally or alternatively,
   the processing circuitry 70 may comprise a phase adjust unit 320 adapted to adjust the
   phase of the output signal from the second receive path 40. The phase adjust unit 310
15 and/or the phase adjust unit 320 may be adapted to adjust the phase of the output signal
   from the first receive path 30 and/or the output signal from the second receive path,
   respectively, such that they are in phase with each other before combining. Furthermore, as
   illustrated in Fig. 7, the processing circuitry 70 may comprise an adder unit 330 arranged
   to generate the combined output signal on an output 340 of the adder unit 330 by
20 combining, or adding, the (optionally phase adjusted) output signals from the first receive
   path 30 and the second receive path 40. In embodiments where the processing circuitry 70
   is implemented by means of a digital signal processor, any of the units 310, 320, and 330
   may be implemented in software on the digital signal processor.
       The phase adjust units 310 and 320 are indicated in Fig. 7 as being optional. In some
25 embodiments, only one of them is included. Furthermore, in some embodiments, the output
   signals from the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 are already adequately
   phase aligned such that no phase adjustment is needed in the processing circuitry 70. For
   example, in embodiments where the mixer units 100 and 200 (Fig. 6) are arranged to be
   driven with a common LO signal in the non-CA mode, an adequate phase alignment
30 between the output signals from the two receive paths 30 and 40 can be provided, provided
   that the two receive paths are relatively well matched. Alternatively, in embodiments
   where the mixer units 100 and 200 (Fig. 6) are arranged to be driven with separate LO
   signals from the LO units 110 and 210 (Fig. 6), the control unit 50 can be arranged to
   10476655 1.docx

                                                   13
   control the LO units 110 and 210 in order to phase align the LO signals such that an
   adequate phase alignment of the output signals from the two receive paths 30 and 40 is
   provided.
       Detection of a phase difference between the output signals from the first receive path 30
 5 and the second receive path can be performed by correlating these output signals, for
   example in the processing circuitry 70. Hence, in some embodiment, the processing
   circuitry 70 may be adapted to derive the phase difference, e.g. by correlating the output
   signals from the first receive path 30 and the second receive path with each other.
       However, at relatively weak signal levels or in presence of relatively strong interferers
10 (which are situations where using more than one receive path for receiving the same single
   CC 6 may be particularly beneficial) the convergence of such a correlation method might
   be relatively slow. In some embodiments, this might therefore not be sufficiently good.
   Another alternative that can be faster is to utilize the LO signals from the LO units 110 and
   210 to detect the phase difference between the output signals from the first receive path 30
15 and the second receive path 40, e.g. by means of a time-to-digital converter (not shown)
   arranged to measure a time difference between the arrival (such as the arrival of a falling or
   rising edge) of the LO signals from the LO units 110 and 120. Accordingly, in some
   embodiments, the control unit 50 or the processing circuitry 70 is adapted to derive the
   phase difference between the output signals from the first receive path 30 and the second
20 receive path 40 based on the LO signals from the LO unit 110 and the LO unit 210.
       Regardless of how the phase difference between output signals from the first receive
   path 30 and the second receive path is derived, the processing circuitry 70 may be adapted
   to adjust the phase(s) of the output signal from the first receive path 30 and/or the output
   signal from second receive path 40 based on the derived phase difference, for example by
25 means of the phase adjust unit 310 and/or the phase adjust unit 320. Alternatively, the
   control unit 50 may be adapted to control the LO unit 110 and/or the LO unit 120 to phase
   align the LO signals from the LO units 110 and 210.
       Regardless of how the phase difference is detected and adjusted, it should be noted from
   the calculations above that the requirement on phase accuracy is normally relatively
30 relaxed. For example, using the formula 20 logio cos(<p/2) dB for the dynamic-range
   degradation derived above, it can be concluded that if, for example, a 0.3 dB degradation
   (compared with the ideal case) could be acceptable, an absolute phase difference of almost
   10476655 1.docx

                                                     14
   30 degrees would be OK. Thus, the detection of and adjustment of the phase difference can
   be made relatively coarse, which is advantageous from an implementation perspective.
       The control unit 50 may be adapted to, in the non-CA mode, control at least one (in
   some embodiments both) of a gain and a frequency bandwidth of the first receive path 30
 5 to be the same as that of the second receive path 40 when the first receive path 30 and the
   second receive path 40 are controlled to both receive the same single CC 6. For example,
   the filter units 120 and 220 might have a controllable gain (or attenuation) and/or a
   controllable frequency bandwidth. The control unit 50 may be adapted to control the gain
   and/or frequency bandwidth of the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 by
10 controlling the filter units 120 and 220.
      Above, embodiments have been described wherein the processing circuitry 70 is
   adapted to combine the output signals from the first receive path 30 and the second receive
   path 40. In other embodiments, the processing circuitry 70 is arranged to, in the non-CA
   mode, separately process an output signal of the first receive path 30 and an output signal
15 of the second receive path 40, thereby generating a first processed signal and a second
   processed signal, respectively. This is illustrated in Fig. 8, wherein the processing circuitry
   70 comprises a first processing path 350 arranged to separately process the output signal
   from the first receive path 30 and a second processing path 360 arranged to separately
   process the output signal from the second receive path 40. Processing of an output signal
20 from a receive path may in this context e.g. include well-known operations such as but not
   limited to equalization, demodulation and decoding. It may also, as is further described
   below, include making signal-strength measurements.
      In some situations, the power of the desired signal is unknown. An example of such a
   situation is when the terminal I performs measurements. For example, the terminal I may
25 be connected to a serving cell, but periodically make measurements on neighboring cells,
   e.g. in order to facilitate identification of suitable targets cells for handover or for use as
   SCells. For a given gain setting of a receive path, the receive path has a certain dynamic
   range, i.e. range of input signal power levels that it is capable of handling. For an input
   signal power level below a lower threshold of the dynamic range, the signal would be
30 hidden in noise and other unwanted signal components in the receive path. For an input
   signal power level above an upper threshold of the dynamic input range, the signal would
   saturate, or clip, in the receive path. The dynamic range depends on the gain setting of the
   receive path; with increasing gain, the receive path is capable of handling lower input
   10476655 1.docx

                                                    15
   signal power levels, but at the same time starts clipping, or saturating, at a lower input
   signal power level as well.
      In such situations as mentioned above, wherein the power of the desired signal is
   unknown, the dynamic range of the radio receiver circuit 10 can be increased by selecting
 5 different gain settings for the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40, and
   processing the output signal from the first receive path 30 and the output signal from the
   second receive path 40 separately. By using different gain settings, the two receive paths
   30 and 40 together cover a larger range of possible input signal power levels than a single
   receive path would.
10    For the sake of illustration, consider the case when the gain of the first receive path 30
   is set higher than the gain of the second receive path 40 (although it may well be the other
   way around in some embodiments), and wherein the dynamic ranges of the first receive
   path 30 and the second receive path 40 partially overlap, such that there is an overlapping
   range of input signal power levels that can be handled by both receive paths 30 and 40.
15 Then there is a lower range of input signal power levels below that overlapping range that
   cannot be handled by the second receive path 40, but can be handled by the first receive
   path 30. There is also an upper range of input signal power levels above that overlapping
   range that cannot be handled by the first receive path 30, but can be handled by the second
   receive path 40. The combined dynamic range of the first receive path 30 and the second
20 receive path 40 is then the union of the lower range, the overlapping range, and the upper
   range (which is the union of the dynamic range of the first receive path 30 and the second
   receive path 40). This combined dynamic range is larger than the dynamic range of the first
   receive path 30 and the dynamic range of the second receive path 40 individually.
      Accordingly, in some embodiments, the control unit 50 is adapted to, in the non-CA
25 mode, control a gain of one of the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 to be
   higher than a gain of the other one of the first receive path 30 and the second receive path
   40 when the first receive path and the second receive path are controlled to both receive the
   same single CC 6. In some embodiments, the control unit 50 may be adapted to set the gain
   of said one of the receive paths 30, 40 to the highest possible gain and the gain of said
30 other one of the receive paths 30, 40 to the lowest possible gain, thereby providing the
   maximum achievable dynamic range available when using two receive paths in this
   manner.
   10476655 1.docx

                                                  16
       For the sake of comparison, consider use of a single receive path for making signal
   strength measurements. In that case, depending on the initial gain setting of the receive
   path and the input signal power level, the gain might need to be adjusted iteratively in
   order to find a gain setting adequate for making a reliable measurement, whereby such a
 5 measurement can be relatively slow. If instead two receive paths are used simultaneously
   with different gain settings as described above, the increased dynamic range facilitates an
   increased measurement speed, with less required gain adjustments, if any at all. For
   example, if the gain of one of the receive paths 30 and 40 is set to the maximum possible
   gain and the gain of the other one of the receive paths 30 and 40 is set to the minimum
10 possible gain, then their combined dynamic range is such that at least one of the receive
   paths 30 and 40 can correctly detect an input signal with any signal power level detectable
   with a single receive path, without having to perform any iterative gain adjustment
   (provided that the individual dynamic ranges of the receive paths 30 and 40 overlap, such
   that there is no intermediate input signal power level for which none of the receive paths
15 30 and 40 can correctly detect the input signal). For such a gain setting, the measurements
   can be performed significantly faster than using a single receive path.
       In cellular communication systems, measurements on neighboring cells can be
   performed in a so called compressed mode. In the compressed mode, signal transmissions
   are scheduled with measurement gaps, where no transmission takes place from the serving
20 base station to the terminal, in between. During such measurement gaps, the terminal is
   enabled to make measurements on neighboring cells. By speeding up the measurements as
   described above, the terminal will be able to complete the measurements during shorter
   measurement gaps than would otherwise be possible, thereby enabling decreasing the
   duration of the measurement gaps and allowing more data to be transmitted during
25 compressed mode. Alternatively, if the duration of the measurement gaps are not
   decreased, it enables more measurements to be made during each measurement gap.
   Furthermore, the improved measurement speed can be utilized to quickly determine a
   correct gain setting to be used during further reception in the non-CA mode.
       Accordingly, in some embodiments, the processing circuitry 70 is arranged to perform
30 signal-strength measurements on the output signal from the first receive path 30 and on the
   output signal from the second receive path 40. For example, the processing circuitry 70
   may be arranged to perform signal-strength measurements on the output signal from the
   first receive path 30 and on the output signal from the second receive path 40 for
   10476655 1.docx

                                                   17
   determining a gain setting to be used during further reception in the non-CA mode. The
   processing circuitry 70 may be adapted to communicate said determined gain setting to the
   control unit 50. The control unit 50 may be adapted to control the first receive path 30
   and/or the second receive path 40 to apply said determined gain setting during further
 5 reception in the non-CA mode. In some embodiments, applying the determined gain setting
   during further reception in the non-CA mode means applying the determined gain setting
   as an initial gain setting. The gain setting can then be further adjusted using an automatic
   gain-control (AGC) algorithm during the further reception in the non-CA mode, e.g. to
   account for varying reception conditions. AGC algorithms are well known in the art of
10 radio receiver design and are not described herein in any further detail.
       Above, some embodiments have been described where the processing circuitry 70, in
   the non-CA mode, is arranged to combine the output signals from the first processing path
   30 and the second processing path 40. Furthermore, other embodiments have been
   described where the processing circuitry 70, in the non-CA mode, is arranged to process
15 the output signals from the first processing path 30 and the second processing path 40
   separately. In some further embodiments, the processing circuitry 70 is arranged to do
   both. For example, during a first time period in the non-CA mode, the control unit 50 can
   be adapted to control the gain of one of the first receive path 30 and the second receive
   path 40 to be higher than the gain of the other one of the first receive path 30 and the
20 second receive path 40, and the processing circuitry 70 may be arranged to separately
   process the output signals from the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 and
   perform signal strength measurements to determine a gain setting to be used during further
   reception in the non-CA mode. During a second time period in the non-CA mode, after the
   first time period, the control unit 50 may be adapted to control the first receive path 30
25 and/or the second receive path 40 to apply said determined gain setting, and the processing
   circuitry 70 may be adapted to combine the output signals from the first receive path 30
   and the second receive path. In some embodiments, depending on the signal strength, the
   control unit 50 may be adapted to selectively disable one of the receive paths 30 and 40
   during the second time period for saving power.
30     According to some embodiments of the present invention, there is provided a method of
   operating the radio receiver circuit 10. The method comprises controlling, in the CA mode
   and by the control unit 50, the first receive path 30 to receive a first CC 6 of said plurality
   of CCs 6, 8 and the second receive path 40 to receive a second CC 8, separate from the
   10476655 1.docx

                                                   18
   first CC 6, of said plurality of CCs 6, 8. The method further comprises selectively
   controlling, in the non-CA mode and by the control unit 50, the first receive path 30 and
   the second receive path 40 to both receive the same single CC 6.
       An embodiment of the method is illustrated with a flow chart in Fig. 9. The operation is
 5 started in step 400. In step 410, it is checked whether the radio receiver circuit 10 operates
   in the CA mode or the non-CA mode. If it operates in the CA mode (YES branch from step
   410), the control unit 50 controls the first receive path 30, in step 420, to receive the first
   CC 6 and the second receive path 40, in step 430, to receive the second CC 8. The
   operation of the method is then ended in step 440. If the radio receiver circuit 10 operates
10 in the non-CA mode (NO branch from step 410), the control unit 50 selectively controls, in
   step 450, the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 to both receive the same
   single CC 6. The operation of the method is then ended in step 440.
       As indicated above in the context of embodiments of the radio receiver circuit 10,
   selectively controlling the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 to both
15 receive the same single CC 6 can, in some embodiments, include controlling the first
   receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 to both receive the same single CC 6 when
   an increased dynamic range (compared with using a single receive path) is needed, and
   otherwise disabling the second receive path 40 for saving power. As mentioned above, an
   increased dynamic range can e.g. be needed in situations where the received signal is
20 relatively weak, situations with presence of blocking interferer(s), and during signal
   measurements when the strength of the received signal is initially unknown to the radio
   receiver circuit 10. Fig. 10 is a flow chart for an embodiment of step 450 (Fig. 9). The
   operation of step 450 is started in step 500. In step 510, it is checked by the control unit 50
   whether an increased dynamic range is needed. If so (YES branch from step 510), the
25 control unit 50 controls the first receive path 30 and the second receive path 40 to both
   receive the same single CC 6. Then, the operation of step 450 is ended in step 530. If not
   (NO branch from step 510), the control unit 50 disables the second receive path 40 for
   saving power. Then, the operation of step 450 is ended in step 530.
       Embodiments of the present invention provides a capability for boosting the dynamic
30 range of a radio receiver circuit during non-CA operation by efficiently reusing circuitry
   intended for receiving multiple CCs during CA operation. The reuse of circuitry intended
   for receiving multiple CCs using CA operation for providing the boost in dynamic range is
   10476655 1.docx

                                                  19
   advantageous, for instance in that relatively little overhead, e.g. in terms of hardware, is
   needed for providing the boost in dynamic range.
      In some embodiments, the control unit 50 may be implemented as a dedicated
   application-specific hardware unit. Alternatively, the control unit 50, or parts thereof, may
 5 be implemented with programmable and/or configurable hardware units, such as but not
   limited to one or more field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), processors, or
   microcontrollers. Thus, the control unit 50 may be a programmable control unit. Hence,
   embodiments of the present invention may be embedded in a computer program product,
   which enables implementation of the method and functions described herein. Therefore,
10 according to embodiments of the present invention, there is provided a computer program
   product, comprising instructions arranged to cause the programmable control unit to
   perform the steps of any of the embodiments of said methods. The computer program
   product may comprise program code which is stored on a computer readable medium 600,
   as illustrated in Fig. 11, which can be loaded and executed by said programmable control
15 unit, to cause it to perform the steps of any of the embodiments of said methods. The
   computer-readable medium 600 may e.g. be a non-transitory computer-readable medium.
       The present invention has been described above with reference to specific embodiments.
   However, other embodiments than the above described are possible within the scope of the
   invention. Different method steps than those described above, performing the method by
20 hardware or software, may be provided within the scope of the invention. The different
   features and steps of the embodiments may be combined in other combinations than those
   described. The scope of the invention is only limited by the appended patent claims.
      In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
   external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
25 providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
   otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission that
   such documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form
   part of the common general knowledge in the art.
   10476655 1.docx

                                                     20
                                                   CLAIMS
       1.    A radio receiver circuit for a cellular communication system, comprising:
       a first direct conversion receiver arranged to be operatively connected to an antenna and
 5 comprising a quadrature mixer arranged to be driven by a first local oscillator (LO) signal,
   a filter unit connected to an output port of the quadrature mixer, and an analog-to-digital
   converter (ADC) unit connected to an output port of the filter unit;
       a second direct conversion receiver arranged to be operatively connected to the same
   antenna and comprising a quadrature mixer arranged to be driven by a second LO signal, a
10 filter unit connected to an output port of the quadrature mixer, and an ADC unit connected
   to an output port of the filter unit; and
       a digital signal processor configured to process output signals from the ADC unit of the
   first direct conversion receiver and the ADC unit of the second direct conversion receiver;
       wherein the radio receiver circuit has:
15     a first mode of operation wherein the first and second LO signals have different
   frequencies, whereby the first direct conversion receiver and the second direct conversion
   receiver are operable to receive different radio frequency carriers; and
       a second mode of operation wherein the first and second LO signals have the same
   frequency, whereby the first direct conversion receiver and the second direct conversion
20 receiver are operable to receive the same radio frequency carrier.
       2.    The radio receiver circuit according to claim 1, comprising a low-noise amplifier
   arranged to operatively connect both the first direct conversion receiver and the second
   direct conversion receiver to the antenna.
25
       3.    The radio receiver circuit according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the digital signal
   processor is configured to, in the second mode, combine an output signal of the ADC unit
   of the first direct conversion receiver with an output signal of the ADC unit of the second
   direct conversion receiver, thereby generating a combined output signal.
30
       4.    The radio receiver circuit according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the digital signal
   processor is configured to, in the second mode, separately process an output signal of the
   ADC unit of the first direct conversion receiver and an output signal of the ADC unit of the
   10476655 i.docx

                                                   21
   second direct conversion receiver, thereby generating a first processed signal and a second
   processed signal, respectively; wherein
       in operation in the second mode, the first direct conversion receiver is controlled to have
   a higher gain than the second direct conversion receiver.
 5
       5.    The radio receiver circuit according to claim 4, wherein the digital signal processor
   is arranged to perform signal-strength measurements on the output signal from the ADC
   unit of the first direct conversion receiver and on the output signal from the ADC unit of
   the second direct conversion receiver.
10
       6.    The radio receiver circuit according to claim 5, wherein the digital signal processor
   is arranged to perform said signal-strength measurements to determine a gain setting to be
   used during further reception of said same radio frequency carrier.
15     7.    A radio communication apparatus for a cellular communication system,
   comprising:
       a radio receiver circuit according to any preceding claim; and
       an antenna, to which both the first direct conversion receiver and the direct conversion
   receiver of the radio receiver circuit are operatively connected.
20
       8.    The radio communication apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the radio
   communication apparatus is a terminal for a cellular communication system.
       9.    The radio communication apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the terminal is a
25 mobile telephone, a tablet computer, a portable computer.
       10. The radio communication apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the terminal is a
   machine-type communication device.
30     11. A method of operating a radio receiver circuit for a cellular communication system,
   wherein the radio receiver circuit comprises:
       a first direct conversion receiver arranged to be operatively connected to an antenna and
   comprising a quadrature mixer arranged to be driven by a first local oscillator (LO) signal,
   10476655 1.docx

                                                   22
   a filter unit connected to an output port of the quadrature mixer, and an analog-to-digital
   converter (ADC) unit connected to an output port of the filter unit;
       a second direct conversion receiver arranged to be operatively connected to the same
   antenna and comprising a quadrature mixer arranged to be driven by a second LO signal, a
 5 filter unit connected to an output port of the quadrature mixer, and an ADC unit connected
   to an output port of the filter unit; and
       a digital signal processor configured to process output signals from the ADC unit of the
   first direct conversion receiver and the ADC unit of the second direct conversion receiver;
       wherein the method comprises:
10     controlling, in a first mode of operation, the first and second LO signals to have
   different frequencies, whereby the first direct conversion receiver and the second direct
   conversion receiver are operable to receive different radio frequency carriers; and
       controlling, in a second mode of operation, the first and second LO signals have the
   same frequency, whereby the first direct conversion receiver and the second direct
15 conversion receiver are operable to receive the same radio frequency carrier.
       12. The method according to claim 11, comprising, in the second mode,
       combining, by the digital signal processor, an output signal of the ADC unit of the first
   direct conversion receiver with an output signal of the ADC unit of the second direct
20 conversion receiver, thereby generating a combined output signal.
       13. The method according to claim 11, comprising, in the second mode,
       controlling the first direct conversion receiver to have a higher gain than the second
   direct conversion receiver; and
25     separately processing, by the digital signal processor, an output signal of the ADC unit
   of the first direct conversion receiver and an output signal of the ADC unit of the second
   direct conversion receiver, thereby generating a first processed signal and a second
   processed signal, respectively.
30     14. The method according to claim 13, comprising
       performing, by the digital signal processor, signal-strength measurements on the output
   signal from the ADC unit of the first direct conversion receiver and on the output signal
   from the ADC unit of the second direct conversion receiver.
   10476655 1.docx

                                                23
      15. The method according to claim 14, comprising
      determining, by the digital signal processor, a gain setting to be used during further
  reception of said same radio frequency carrier based on said signal strength measurements.
5
  10476655 1.docx

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
