                                             Abstract
A   system and method is provided for activating electrodes in a multi-channel electrode array
having electrodes that are spatially divided. At least one pulse for stimulating a single
electrode of the electrode array is determined. Each of the pulses is converted into a plurality
of pulses for stimulating a plurality of electrodes in the electrode array.
9714135_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

                            Temporal Coding for Hearing Implants
                            Cross-Reference to Related Applications
        [0001] This application claims priority from United States provisional patent
application serial number 61/720,600 filed October 31, 2012, entitled "Temporal Coding for
Hearing Implants," which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This
application is a divisional application of Australian application no. 2013338341, the
disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                         Technical Field
[0002] The present invention relates to temporal coding for hearing implants, and more
particularly to evaluation and methodology of temporal coding for a cochlear implant.
                                        Background Art
[0003] A human ear normally transmits sounds such as speech sounds as shown in Figure 1
through the outer ear 101 to the tympanic membrane (eardrum) 102, which moves the bones
of the middle ear 103 (malleus, incus, and stapes) that vibrate the oval window membrane of
the cochlea 104. The cochlea 104 is a long narrow duct wound spirally about its axis for
approximately two and three quarters turns. It includes three chambers along its length: an
upper chamber known as the scala vestibuli, a middle chamber known as the scala media,
and a lower chamber known as the scala tympani. The cochlea 104 forms an upright spiraling
cone with a center called the modiolus where the axons of the auditory nerve 113 reside.
These axons project in one direction to the cochlear nucleus in the brainstem and they project
in the other direction to the spiral ganglion cells and neural processes peripheral to the cells
(hereinafter called peripheral processes) in the cochlea. In response to received sounds
transmitted by the middle ear 103, sensory hair cells in the cochlea 104 function as
transducers to convert mechanical motion and energy into electrical discharges in the
auditory nerve 113. These discharges are conveyed to the cochlear nucleus and patterns of
induced neural activity in the nucleus are then conveyed to other structures in the brain for
further auditory processing and perception.
                                                                               9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

[0004] Hearing is impaired when there are problems in the ability to transduce external
sounds into meaningful action potentials along the neural substrate of the cochlea 104. In
some cases, hearing impairment can be addressed by an auditory prosthesis system such as a
cochlear implant that electrically stimulates auditory nerve tissue with small currents
delivered by multiple electrode contacts distributed along an implant electrode. Figure 1
shows some components of a typical cochlear implant system where an external microphone
provides an audio signal input to an external signal processing stage 111 which implements
one of various known signal processing schemes. The processed signal is converted by the
external signal processing stage 111 into a digital data format, such as a sequence of data
frames, for transmission into a receiver processor in an implant housing 108. Besides
extracting the audio information, the receiver processor in the implant housing 108 may
perform additional signal processing, and produces a stimulation pattern (based on the
extracted audio information) that is sent through an electrode lead 109 to an implanted
electrode array 112 which penetrates into the cochlea 104 through a surgical opening called a
cochleostomy. Typically, this electrode array 112 includes multiple electrode contacts 110
on its surface that deliver the stimulation signals to adjacent neural tissue of the cochlea 104
which the brain of the patient interprets as sound. The individual electrode contacts 110 may
be activated using various stimulation strategies that include, for example, sequential or
simultaneous stimulation in one or more contact groups.
[0005] The representation of temporal information in an auditory system by use of cochlea
implants is imperfect compared to a normal functioning hearing organ. In a healthy ear,
temporal information is recorded by the hair cells and their corresponding nerve fibers before
the information is translated to the brain. Up to a certain frequency, the hair cells can follow
the externally generated acoustic information in phase with the corresponding oscillation of
the basilar membrane. However, the nerve fibers have a certain refractory period which
allows only a limited temporal coding. In case of a healthy physiological system, there are
sufficient nerve fibers present having different refractory states after stimulation.
Consequently, acting as an ensemble, these nerve fibers together are typically able to
                                                 2
                                                                                9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

represent temporal information up to 5 kHz (see, for example, Wever and Bray's "volley
theory," 1937).
[0006] In case of a cochlear implant, the temporal information is provided via the electrodes
by, for example, biphasic electrical pulses which directly elicit action potentials in the nerve
fibers. As a consequence, all nerve fibers around an electrical contact of the cochlear implant
electrode are elicited synchronously and the volley principal is not applicable any more.
Transfer of temporal information may thus be strongly impaired.
[0007] The coupling to the neuronal system is therefore imperfect with regard to a cochlear
implant. Further, conditions like the actual impedance of the cochlear implant' s electrode
contacts may be different from patient to patient. As a consequence, standardized pulse
sequences may be sub-optimal for patients. To help address this problem, psycho-acoustic
tests have been performed in which the patient provides subjective feedback whether he is
able to discriminate pitch of presented sounds at various pulse rates. (See Bahmer und
Baumann 2012, Cochlear Implants International, accepted). However, such subjection
feedback can vary depending on the circumstances, and may be hard to achieve with certain
patients, for example, small children.
                                 Summary of the Embodiments
[0008] In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a method is provided for
activating electrodes in a multi-channel electrode array having electrodes that are spatially
divided. The method includes determining at least one pulse for stimulating a single
electrode of the electrode array. Each of the pulses is converted into a plurality of pulses for
stimulating a plurality of electrodes in the electrode array.
[0009] In accordance with related embodiments of the invention, converting may include
adding temporal separation between at least two pulses associated with different electrodes.
The pulses for stimulating a plurality of electrodes may be at a supra-threshold pulse or a
sub-threshold pulse. The energy of the plurality of pulses may be substantially equal to the
energy of the pulse for stimulating the first electrode. The temporal and/or spatial center of
                                                 3
                                                                               9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

mass for the plurality of pulses may be substantially equivalent to that of the determined
pulse. The plurality of pulses may vary in amplitude, pulse length, and/or temporal
separation. The variation may be based on a Gaussian distribution, a Poisson distribution,
and/or a uniform Distribution. The at least one pulse for stimulating a single electrode of the
electrode array may be a plurality of pulses that form a sequential pulse sequence, such as a
Continuous Interleaved Sampling (CIS) speech signal processing strategy.
[0010] In accordance with still further related embodiments of the invention, the method
may further include stimulating the plurality of electrodes based, at least in part, on the
converted pulses. The electrode array may be part of an auditory prosthesis that is implanted
in a user, the method further including performing at least one neurophysiologic
measurement upon stimulating the electrodes, and evaluating the neurophysiologic
measurements so as to determine the quality of temporal coding for enhanced pitch
discrimination. The at least one neurophysiologic measurement may include electrically
evoked auditory steady state responses (EASSR), electrically evoked brainstem response
audiometry (EBERA), near field measurements, and/or electrically evoked compound action
potentials (ECAP). Evaluating the neurophysiologic measurements may include statistical
testing and/or use of a genetic algorithm. The pulse rate may be adjusted based on the
evaluation. The multi-channel electrode may be associated with an implant. The multi
channel electrode array may be associated with a cochlear implant, a brain stem implant, or
deep brain stimulation.
[0011] In accordance with another embodiment of the invention, an auditory prosthesis
system includes a stimulator adapted to be implantable, the stimulator including a plurality of
electrodes forming a multi-channel electrode array. A processor is configured to determine
at least one pulse for stimulating a single electrode of the electrode array. The processor is
further configured to convert each of the pulses into a plurality of pulses for stimulating a
plurality of electrodes in the electrode array.
[0012] In accordance with related embodiments of the invention, the processor may be
configured to add temporal separation between at least two converted pulses associated with
                                                 4
                                                                               9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

different electrodes. The pulses for stimulating the plurality of electrodes may be a supra
threshold pulse or a sub-threshold pulse. The energy of the plurality of pulses may be
substantially equal to the energy of the determined pulse for stimulating the first electrode.
The temporal and/or spatial center of mass for the plurality of pulses may be substantially
equivalent to that of the determined pulse. The plurality of pulses may vary in amplitude,
pulse length, and/or temporal separation. The variation may be based on a Gaussian
distribution, a Poisson distribution, and/or a uniform Distribution. The at least one pulse for
stimulating a single electrode of the electrode array may be a plurality of pulses that form a
sequential pulse sequence. The sequential pulse sequence may be based on a Continuous
Interleaved Sampling (CIS) speech signal processing strategy.25.       The stimulator may be
configured to stimulate the plurality of electrodes based, at least in part, on the converted
pulses.
[0013] In accordance with still further embodiments of the invention, the test module may be
configured to perform at least one neurophysiologic measurement on a user of the prosthesis
to the electrode stimulation. The test module may be further configured to evaluate the
neurophysiologic measurements so as to determine the quality of temporal coding for
enhanced pitch discrimination. Evaluating the neurophysiologic measurements may include
statistical testing and/or use of a genetic algorithm. The neurophysiologic measurement may
include electrically evoked auditory steady state responses (EASSR), electrically evoked
brainstem response audiometry (EBERA), near field measurements, and/or electrically
evoked compound action potentials (ECAP).
[0014] In accordance with another embodiment of the invention, a method of evaluating the
quality of temporal coding for enhanced pitch discrimination associated with a auditory
prosthesis is provided. The auditory prosthesis includes a plurality of electrodes in a multi
channel electrode array. The method includes stimulating the electrodes at a pulse rate. At
least one neurophysiologic measurement is performed on a user of the prosthesis to the
electrode stimulation. The neurophysiologic measurements are evaluated so as to determine
the quality of temporal coding for enhanced pitch discrimination. The pulse pattern and/or
rate is adjusted based on the evaluation.
                                                  5
                                                                                 9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

[0015] In accordance with related embodiments of the invention, the neurophysiologic
measurement may include electrically evoked auditory steady state responses (EASSR),
electrically evoked brainstem response audiometry (EBERA), near field measurements,
and/or electrically evoked compound action potentials (ECAP). Evaluating the
neurophysiologic measurements may include statistical testing and/or using a genetic
algorithm. Performing the at least one neurophysiologic measurement may be done without
subjective feedback from the user.
[0016] In accordance with another embodiment of the invention, an auditory prosthesis
system includes a plurality of electrodes in a multi-channel electrode array. A stimulator is
configured to stimulate the electrodes at a pulse rate. The system further includes means for
performing at least one neurophysiologic measurement on a user of the prosthesis to the
electrode stimulation, means for evaluating the neurophysiologic measurements so as to
determine the quality of temporal coding for enhanced pitch discrimination; and means for
adjusting the pulse pattern and/or rate based on the evaluation.
[0017] In accordance with related embodiments of the invention, the neurophysiologic
measurement may include electrically evoked auditory steady state responses (EASSR),
electrically evoked brainstem response audiometry (EBERA), near field measurements,
and/or electrically evoked compound action potentials (ECAP). The means for evaluating
the neurophysiologic measurements may include statistical testing and/or use of a genetic
algorithm. The means for performing the at least one neurophysiologic measurement may be
done without subjective feedback from the user.
                              Brief Description of the Drawings
[0018] The foregoing features of embodiments will be more readily understood by reference
to the following detailed description, taken with reference to the accompanying drawings, in
which:
                                                6
                                                                              9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

[0019] Figure 1 shows anatomical structures and system components in a human ear having
a cochlear implant system;
[0020] Figure 2 shows a flow chart illustrating a method of activating electrodes in a multi
channel electrode array, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
[0021] Fig. 3 illustratively shows a single pulse on an electrode channel that has been
converted to a composite of three pulses on three electrode channels, in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention;
[0022] Fig. 4 shows a flow chart illustrating a method of evaluating the quality of temporal
coding for enhanced pitch discrimination associated with an auditory prosthesis, in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention; and
[0023] Fig. 5 shows an EASSR evaluated by statistical testing, in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention.
                        Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments
[0024] In illustrative embodiment of the invention, enhanced pulse stimulation sequences are
identified that accurately represent temporal information to hearing implant users. The
modified pulse sequences may be patient specific, such that they differ from user to user. In
further embodiments of the invention, neurophysiologic measurements for a hearing implant
are used as the basis for evaluating the quality of temporal coding for enhanced pitch
discrimination. The neurophysiologic measurements may be taken without, or used in
combination with, subjective feedback from the user of the implant. Details are discussed
below.
[0025] Figure 2 shows a flow chart illustrating a method of activating electrodes in a multi
channel electrode array, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The multi
channel electrode array may be associated with an implant. The implant may be any implant
known in the art that includes pulsed stimulation. For example, the multi-channel electrode
                                                7
                                                                             9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

array may be associated with a hearing implant, such as a cochlear implant, in which the
electrodes of the electrode are positioned such that they are spatially divided within the
cochlea. The cochlear implant may be partially implanted, and include, without limitation, an
external speech processor, microphone and/or coil, with an implanted stimulator and/or
electrode array. In other embodiments, the cochlear implant may be a totally implanted
cochlear implant. In further embodiments, the multi-channel electrode may be associated
with deep brain stimulation (DBS) or a brainstem implant, such as an auditory brainstem
implant.
[0026] At least one pulse is determined for stimulating a single electrode of the electrode
array, step 201.   In various embodiments, the implant employs a stimulation strategy that
provides pulsatile stimuli in a multi-channel electrode array. The at least one pulse may be,
without limitation, a plurality of pulses that form a sequential pulse sequence for a given
electrode. One specific example of a stimulation strategy is the "Continuous Interleaved
Sampling (CIS)"- strategy, as described by Wilson et al., Better Speech Recognition With
CochlearImplants, Nature, vol. 352:236-238 (1991), which is incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety. For CIS, symmetrical biphasic current pulses are used, which are
strictly non-overlapping in time across the plurality of electrodes. The rate per channel
typically is higher than 800 pulses/sec. It is to be understood that the invention is not limited
to CIS strategies, and is applicable with other stimulation strategies known in the art, such as,
but not limited to, simultaneous activation/overlapping of electrode currents. For example,
and without limitation, one such simultaneous stimulation is described in U.S. No. 6,594,525
(Zierhofer), which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[0027] Each of the pulses is converted into a plurality of pulses for stimulating a plurality of
electrodes in the electrode array, step 203. For example, instead of presenting a pulse
sequence comprising n individual pulses on a single electrode channel (main channel), each
of the n individual pulses associated with the pulse sequence may be transformed into a
composite of pulses. Each of those composites of pulses may comprise pulses distributed
over several electrode channels (main and neighboring channels; spatial separation) and, in
addition, temporal jitter between each pulses of the composite (temporal separation) may be
                                                  8
                                                                                9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

introduced. The pulses in the composite of pulses may be supra- and/or subthreshold.
Acting as an ensemble, the composite of pulses advantageously allows enhanced
representation/interpretation of the temporal information. Involving several channels instead
of just one, the use of composite pulses leads to a spread of temporal information to a larger
and more distributed number of nerve fibers, thus reducing the problem of eliciting the
corresponding nerve fibers synchronously.
[0028] Fig. 3 illustratively shows a single pulse on electrode channel E2 that has been
converted to a composite of three pulses on channels El, E2 and E3, in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention. Temporal jitter between the pulses on channels El, E2 and E3
has been introduced. The number of electrode channels upon which the composite of pulses
is introduced is not limited to three; any number of channels may be utilized. The composite
of pulses may utilize, to varying degrees, sequential and/or simultaneous stimulation.
[0029] The energy of each pulse composite may be substantially equal to the energy of the
corresponding individual pulse out of the pulse sequence. Further, the center-of-mass of the
composite pulses (spatial and/or temporal) may be presented where the individual pulse
would have been presented in order to preserve the tonotopic order.
[0030] Parameters of the composite pulses that may be varied include, without limitation,
amplitude distributions of the pulses within the pulse composites, the number of electrode
channels used for the pulse composites, and pulse lengths of pulses within the pulse
composites. Another parameter which may be varied is the temporal distributions between
the pulses within the pulse composites. The jitter/time differentiation between the composite
pulses may be of any duration. For example, the time differentiation may be, without
limitation, on the order of ps or ms. The above-described distributions may be, without
limitation, according to a Gaussian distribution, Poisson distribution and/or uniform
distribution. All of the above-described parameters may also be varied between
corresponding pulses of subsequent pulse composites.
                                                9
                                                                              9714080_1 (GHMatters)P99809.AU.1

 [0031] In various embodiments of the invention, the jitter/time differentiation between the
composite pulses may be based on one or more rules. Illustratively, there may be a
predefined minimum time difference between the composite pulses. The minimum time
difference between the composite pulses may be determined by the intensity of the original
pulse (i.e., the corresponding individual pulse out of the pulse sequence). The minimum
jitter/time differentiation may vary, so as to be, without limitation, dependent on the levels
between the composite pulses to avoid masking effects. For example, if the original pulse is
split into three pulses, the second of which has high intensity then the third may be masked if
it is presented at a neighboring channel unless there is sufficient time between these two
pulses.
 [0032] In accordance with even more sophisticated embodiments of the invention, the
representation of a single pulse out of the composite of pulses (provided this single pulse is
supra-threshold) may further be represented by a sub-composite of pulses which includes
sub- and/or supra-threshold pulses, preferable sub-threshold pulses only. All the variations of
stimulation parameters explained above may be applied to this sub-composite as well.
 [0033] The rate of the n individual pulses of the pulse sequence which is transformed into a
composite of pulses may be the basis for a frequency/rate analysis that may be used to
evaluate the quality of temporal coding for enhanced pitch discrimination. In various
embodiments, the jitter of the composite pulses is solely used for better representation of this
rate.
 [0034] Fig. 4 shows a flow chart illustrating a method of evaluating the quality of temporal
coding for enhanced pitch discrimination associated with an auditory prosthesis, in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The auditory prosthesis may include a
plurality of electrodes in a multi-channel electrode array, and utilize, without limitation, the
above-described pulse composite stimulation strategy; however other stimulation strategies
(including, for example, CIS and/or simultaneous stimulation strategies) are within the scope
of the present invention.
                                                 10
                                                                               9714080_1 (GHMatters)P99809.AU.1

[0035] The electrodes of the prosthesis are stimulated at a pulse rate, step 401. At least one
neurophysiologic measurement is then performed on a user of the prosthesis to the electrode
stimulation, step 403. In various embodiments, the neurophysiological measurement may
not require any subjective user feedback.
[0036] The neurophysiological test may include electrically evoked auditory steady state
responses (EASSR) (see also: "Recording and online analysis of auditory steady state
responses (ASSR) in Matlab", Andreas Bahmer, Uwe Baumann; Journal of Neuroscience
Methods 187 (2010), 105-113, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety; and "Temporal information transfer with cochlear implants: Improvements and
Measurements", Habilitationsschrift, Andreas Bahmer, Frankfurt am Main, 2012, which is
hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). EASSR responses to low-rate pulse
trains can be readily recorded by electrodes placed on the scalp of a cochlear implant user
and separated from the artifacts generated by the electrical stimulation.
[0037] In further embodiments, the neurophysiological test may include electrically evoked
brainstem response audiometry (EBERA) or near field measurement methods like
electrically evoked compound action potentials (ECAP). The various measurement
methodologies may allow following the effect of the composite pulses on temporal
information transfer at a different levels of signal processing.
[0038] Referring back to Fig. 4, the neurophysiologic measurements are evaluated so as to
determine the quality of temporal coding for enhanced pitch discrimination, step 405. The
pulse pattern and/or rate may then be adjusted based on the evaluation, step 407, so as to
provide optimal pitch discrimination for the user. Steps 405 and 407 may be repeated until a
certain optimum is achieved (for example, convergence of a genetic algorithm).
[0039] The results of the neurophysiologic measurement may be evaluated by statistical
tests. Illustratively, and without limitation, the results of the neurophysiologic measurement
(particularly EASSR) may be evaluated using the following two statistical test paradigms.
Both allow signal detection for a given significance threshold. A first test analyzes and
                                                  11
                                                                                9714080_1 (GHMaters) P99809.AU.1

compares Fourier components of several subsequent measurements at the frequency of the
signal modulation (see, for example, "A new statistic for steady-state evoked potentials",
Victor and Mast, Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, 1991, 78:378-388,
1991, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). The second test
evaluates Fourier components that are adjacent to the modulation frequency; these adjacent
components are used to estimate the noise level (see, for example: "Human auditory steady
state responses to amplitude-modulated tones: phase and latency measurements" John and
Picton, Hearing Research 141:57-79, 2000; and "MASTER: a Windows program for
recording multiple", John and Picton, Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine 61
125-150, 2000, each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).
In addition, averaged data may be analyzed. Both test methods apply the F-test to estimate
the probability that two subsets originate from the same probability distribution.
[0040] In further embodiments, the result of the neurophysiologic measurement (particularly
EABR) may be evaluated by the conformation of Jewett peaks (height and width). The result
of the neurophysiologic measurement (particularly ECAP) may be evaluated by the
conformation of P1-NI peaks (height and width).
[0041] A genetic algorithm may use the evaluation results for rating the quality of temporal
information transfer (so-called "cost-function") for generation of a new set of parameters
based on the previous sets of parameter (see, for example, "Parameters for a model of an
oscillating neuronal network in the cochlear nucleus defined by genetic algorithms", Andreas
Bahmer, Gerald Langner; Bio. Cybernetics (2010), 102:81-93, which is hereby incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety).
[0042] Illustratively, Fig. 5 shows an EASSR evaluated by statistical testing, in accordance
with an embodiment of the invention (see, for example, figure 1 F-test example for ASSR
from Bahmer and Baumann, 2010). More particularly, Fig. 5 shows F Test probability when
measuring ASSR with a normal hearing subject (x-axis: time [s], y-axis: test probability;
headphone representation: sinusoidal amplitude modulated sine wave, carrier 1 kHz,
                                               12
                                                                              9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

modulation 97.656 Hz, 90 dB SPL). The F-test reaches significance after approximately 75 s
(the straight line indicates alpha=0.05).
[0043] Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in whole or in part in any
conventional computer programming language. For example, preferred embodiments may
be implemented in a procedural programming language (e.g., "C") or an object oriented
programming language (e.g., "C++", Python). Alternative embodiments of the invention
may be implemented as pre-programmed hardware elements, other related components, or as
a combination of hardware and software components.
[0044] Embodiments can be implemented in whole or in part as a computer program product
for use with a computer system. Such implementation may include a series of computer
instructions fixed either on a tangible medium, such as a computer readable medium (e.g., a
diskette, CD-ROM, ROM, or fixed disk) or transmittable to a computer system, via a modem
or other interface device, such as a communications adapter connected to a network over a
medium. The medium may be either a tangible medium (e.g., optical or analog
communications lines) or a medium implemented with wireless techniques (e.g., microwave,
infrared or other transmission techniques). The series of computer instructions embodies all
or part of the functionality previously described herein with respect to the system. Those
skilled in the art should appreciate that such computer instructions can be written in a
number of programming languages for use with many computer architectures or operating
systems. Furthermore, such instructions may be stored in any memory device, such as
semiconductor, magnetic, optical or other memory devices, and may be transmitted using
any communications technology, such as optical, infrared, microwave, or other transmission
technologies. It is expected that such a computer program product may be distributed as a
removable medium with accompanying printed or electronic documentation (e.g., shrink
wrapped software), preloaded with a computer system (e.g., on system ROM or fixed disk),
or distributed from a server or electronic bulletin board over the network (e.g., the Internet or
World Wide Web). Of course, some embodiments of the invention may be implemented as a
combination of both software (e.g., a computer program product) and hardware. Still other
                                                13
                                                                              9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

embodiments of the invention are implemented as entirely hardware, or entirely software
(e.g., a computer program product).
[0045] Although various exemplary embodiments of the invention have been disclosed, it
should be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be
made which will achieve some of the advantages of the invention without departing from the
true scope of the invention.
                                                14
                                                                             9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

What is claimed is:
1.      A method of evaluating the quality of temporal coding for enhanced pitch
discrimination associated with a auditory prosthesis, the auditory prosthesis including a
plurality of electrodes in a multi-channel electrode array, the method including:
             stimulating the electrodes at a pulse rate;
             performing at least one neurophysiologic measurement on a user of the prosthesis
to the electrode stimulation;
             evaluating the neurophysiologic measurements so as to determine the quality of
temporal coding for enhanced pitch discrimination; and
             adjusting the pulse pattern and/or rate based on the evaluation.
2.      The method according to claim 1, wherein performing the at least one
neurophysiologic measurement is done without subjective feedback from the user.
3.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one neurophysiologic
measurement includes electrically evoked auditory steady state responses (EASSR),
electrically evoked brainstem response audiometry (EBERA), near field measurements,
and/or electrically evoked compound action potentials (ECAP).
4.      The method according to claim 1, wherein evaluating the neurophysiologic
measurements includes statistical testing or a genetic algorithm, or both.
5.      An auditory prosthesis system comprising:
             a plurality of electrodes in a multi-channel electrode array:
             a stimulator for stimulating the electrodes at a pulse rate;
             means for performing at least one neurophysiologic measurement on a user of the
prosthesis to the electrode stimulation;
             means for evaluating the neurophysiologic measurements so as to determine the
quality of temporal coding for enhanced pitch discrimination; and
             means for adjusting the pulse pattern and/or rate based on the evaluation.
                                                  15
                                                                              9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

6.       The system according to claim 5, wherein the means for performing the at least one
neurophysiologic measurement is done without subjective feedback from the user.
7.       A method of activating electrodes in a multi-channel electrode array of an auditory
prosthesis system, in which the electrodes of the multi-channel electrode array are spatially
divided, the method comprising:
            determining a pulse for stimulating a single electrode of the electrode array;
            converting the pulse into a plurality of pulses for stimulating a plurality of
electrodes in the electrode array, wherein converting includes adding temporal jitter between
at least two pulses associated with different electrodes so as to enhance pitch discrimination;
and
            stimulating the plurality of electrodes based, at least in part, on the converted
pulses.
8.       The method according to claim 7, wherein the temporal jitter avoids masking effects.
9.       The method according to claim 7, wherein the temporal jitter is a function of the
intensity of the pulse for stimulating the single electrode.
10.      An auditory prosthesis system comprising:
            a stimulator adapted to be implantable, the stimulator including a plurality of
electrodes forming a multi-channel electrode array, the electrodes of the multi-channel
electrode array spatially divided; and
            a processor configured to:
                determine a pulse for stimulating a single electrode of the electrode array; and
                convert the pulse into a plurality of pulses for stimulating, via the stimulator, a
plurality of electrodes in the electrode array, wherein temporal jitter is added between at least
two pulses associated with different electrodes so as to enhance pitch discrimination.
11.      The system according to claim 10, wherein the temporal jitter avoids masking effects.
                                                 16
                                                                                 9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

12.     The system according to claim 10, wherein the temporal jitter is a function of the
intensity of the pulse for stimulating the single electrode.
13.     A method of activating electrodes in a multi-channel electrode array, in which the
electrodes of the multi-channel electrode array are spatially divided, the method comprising:
            determining a pulse for stimulating a single electrode of the electrode array;
            converting the pulse into a plurality of pulses for stimulating a plurality of
electrodes in the electrode array, wherein the temporal and/or spatial center of mass for the
plurality of pulses is substantially equivalent to that of the determined pulse; and
            stimulating the plurality of electrodes based, at least in part, on the converted
pulses.
14.     The method according to claim 13 wherein converting includes adding temporal
separation between at least two pulses associated with different electrodes.
15.     The method according to claim 14, wherein the pulses for stimulating a plurality of
electrodes is at least one of a supra-threshold pulse and a sub-threshold pulse.
16.     The method according to claim 13, wherein the energy of the plurality of pulses is
substantially equal to the energy of the determined pulse for stimulating the single electrode.
17.     The method according to claim 13, wherein the plurality of pulses vary in amplitude,
pulse length, and/or temporal separation.
18.     The method according to claim 13, wherein the pulse for stimulating a single
electrode of the electrode array is one of a plurality of pulses that form a sequential pulse
sequence for stimulating one or more electrodes in the electrode array.
19.     The method according to claim 18, wherein the sequential pulse sequence is based on
a Continuous Interleaved Sampling (CIS) speech signal processing strategy.
                                                 17
                                                                                 9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

20.     The method according to claim19, further comprising, for at least one or more
electrodes in the multi-channel electrode array different from the single electrode, repeating
the steps of determining, converting and stimulating.
21.     The method according to claims 20, wherein the electrode array is part of an auditory
prosthesis that is implanted in a user, further comprising:
            performing at least one neurophysiologic measurement upon stimulating the
electrodes;
             evaluating the neurophysiologic measurements so as to determine the quality of
temporal coding for enhanced pitch discrimination.
22.     The method according to claim 21, wherein the at least one neurophysiologic
measurement includes electrically evoked auditory steady state responses (EASSR),
electrically evoked brainstem response audiometry (EBERA), near field measurements,
and/or electrically evoked compound action potentials (ECAP).
23.     The method according to claim 1, wherein the multi-channel electrode is associated
with an implant.
24.     An auditory prosthesis system comprising:
             a stimulator adapted to be implantable, the stimulator including a plurality of
electrodes forming a multi-channel electrode array; and
             a processor configured to:
                 determine at least one pulse for stimulating a single electrode of the electrode
array; and
             (1) convert each of the pulses into a plurality of pulses for stimulating a plurality
                 of electrodes in the electrode array; and
                  a test module configured to perform at least one neurophysiologic
measurement on a user of the prosthesis to the electrode stimulation, the test module further
configured to evaluate the neurophysiologic measurements so as to determine the quality of
                                                  18
                                                                                 9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

temporal coding for enhanced pitch discrimination.
25.     The system according to claim 24, wherein the processor is configured to add
temporal separation between at least two converted pulses associated with different
electrodes.
26.     A method of activating electrodes in a multi-channel electrode array, in which the
electrodes of the multi-channel electrode array are spatially divided, the method comprising:
            determining a pulse for stimulating a single electrode of the electrode array;
            converting the pulse into a plurality of pulses for stimulating a plurality of
electrodes in the electrode array, wherein the plurality of pulses vary in amplitude, pulse
length, and/or temporal separation, and wherein the variation is based on a Gaussian
distribution, a Poisson distribution, and/or a uniform Distribution; and
            stimulating the plurality of electrodes based, at least in part, on the converted
pulses.
27.     The method according to claim 26, wherein converting includes adding temporal
separation between at least two pulses associated with different electrodes.
28.     The method according to claim 27, wherein the pulses for stimulating a plurality of
electrodes is at least one of a supra-threshold pulse and a sub-threshold pulse.
29.     The method according to claim 26, wherein the energy of the plurality of pulses is
substantially equal to the energy of the determined pulse for stimulating the single electrode.
30.     The method according to claim 26, wherein the pulse for stimulating a single
electrode of the electrode array is one of a plurality of pulses that form a sequential pulse
sequence for stimulating one or more electrodes in the electrode array.
31.     The method according to claim 30, wherein the sequential pulse sequence is based on
a Continuous Interleaved Sampling (CIS) speech signal processing strategy.
                                                 19
                                                                                 9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

32.     The method according to claim 26, further comprising, for at least one or more
electrodes in the multi-channel electrode array different from the single electrode, repeating
the steps of determining, converting, and stimulating.
33.     The method according to claims 32, wherein the electrode array is part of an auditory
prosthesis that is implanted in a user, further comprising:
            performing at least one neurophysiologic measurement upon stimulating the
electrodes;
             evaluating the neurophysiologic measurements so as to determine the quality of
temporal coding for enhanced pitch discrimination.
34.     The method according to claim 33, wherein the at least one neurophysiologic
measurement includes electrically evoked auditory steady state responses (EASSR),
electrically evoked brainstem response audiometry (EBERA), near field measurements,
and/or electrically evoked compound action potentials (ECAP).
35.     The method according to claim 26, wherein the multi-channel electrode is associated
with an implant
36.     A method of activating electrodes in a multi-channel electrode array that is part of an
auditory prosthesis that is implanted in a user , in which the electrodes of the multi-channel
electrode array are spatially divided, the method comprising:
             determining a pulse for stimulating a single electrode of the electrode array
wherein the pulse for stimulating a single electrode of the electrode array is one of a plurality
of pulses that form a sequential pulse sequence for stimulating one or more electrodes in the
electrode array;
             converting the pulse into a plurality of pulses for stimulating a plurality of
electrodes in the electrode array;
             stimulating electrodes in the multi-channel electrode array based, at least in part,
on the converted pulses and the sequential pulse sequence;
                                                 20
                                                                                 9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

            performing at least one neurophysiologic measurement upon stimulating the
electrodes; and
             evaluating the neurophysiologic measurements so as to determine the quality of
temporal coding for enhanced pitch discrimination, wherein evaluating the neurophysiologic
measurements includes statistical testing.
37.     The method according to claim 36, wherein evaluating the neurophysiologic
measurements includes using a genetic algorithm.
38.     The method according to claim 36, wherein converting includes adding temporal
separation between at least two pulses associated with different electrodes.
39.     The method according to claim 38, wherein the pulses for stimulating a plurality of
electrodes is at least one of a supra-threshold pulse and a sub-threshold pulse.
40.     The method according to claim 36, wherein the energy of the plurality of pulses is
substantially equal to the energy of the determined pulse for stimulating the single electrode.
41.     The method according to claim 36, wherein the plurality of pulses vary in amplitude,
pulse length, and/or temporal separation.
42.     The method according to claim 41, wherein the variation is based on a Gaussian
distribution, a Poisson distribution, and/or a uniform Distribution.
43.     The method according to claim 36, wherein the sequential pulse sequence is based on
a Continuous Interleaved Sampling (CIS) speech signal processing strategy.
44.     The method according to claim 36, wherein the at least one neurophysiologic
measurement includes electrically evoked auditory steady state responses (EASSR),
electrically evoked brainstem response audiometry (EBERA), near field measurements,
and/or electrically evoked compound action potentials (ECAP).
                                                21
                                                                              9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

45.      The method according to claim 36, wherein the sequential pulse sequence has a pulse
rate, the method further comprising adjusting the pulse rate based on the evaluation.
46.      The method according to claim 36, further comprising, for at least one or more
electrodes in the multi-channel electrode array different from the single electrode, repeating
the steps of determining and converting, and wherein stimulating further includes stimulation
based, at least in part, on converted pulses associated with the at least one or more electrodes
in the multi-channel electrode array different from the single electrode.
47.      A method of activating electrodes in a multi-channel electrode array that is part of an
auditory prosthesis that is implanted in a user , in which the electrodes of the multi-channel
electrode array are spatially divided and in which the electrodes are stimulated at a pulse rate,
the method comprising:
            determining a pulse for stimulating a single electrode of the electrode array
wherein the pulse for stimulating a single electrode of the electrode array is one of a plurality
of pulses that form a sequential pulse sequence for stimulating one or more electrodes in the
electrode array, the sequential pulse sequence having a pulse rate;
            converting the pulse into a plurality of pulses for stimulating a plurality of
electrodes in the electrode array;
            stimulating electrodes in the multi-channel electrode array based, at least in part,
on the converted pulses and the sequential pulse sequence;
            performing at least one neurophysiologic measurement upon stimulating the
electrodes;
            evaluating the neurophysiologic measurements so as to determine the quality of
temporal coding for enhanced pitch discrimination; and
            adjusting the pulse rate based on the evaluation.
48.      The method according to claim 47 wherein converting includes adding temporal
separation between at least two pulses associated with different electrodes.
                                                22
                                                                                9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

49.     The method according to claim 48, wherein the pulses for stimulating a plurality of
electrodes is at least one of a supra-threshold pulse and a sub-threshold pulse.
50.     The method according to claim 47, wherein the energy of the plurality of pulses is
substantially equal to the energy of the determined pulse for stimulating the single electrode.
51.     The method according to claim 47, wherein the plurality of pulses vary in amplitude,
pulse length, and/or temporal separation.
52.     The method according to claim 51, wherein the variation is based on a Gaussian
distribution, a Poisson distribution, and/or a uniform Distribution.
53.     The method according to claim 47, further comprising, for at least one or more
electrodes in the multi-channel electrode array different from the single electrode, repeating
the steps of determining and converting, and wherein stimulating further includes stimulation
based, at least in part, on converted pulses associated with the at least one or more electrodes
in the multi-channel electrode array different from the single electrode.
54.     The method according to claim 47, wherein the sequential pulse sequence is based on
a Continuous Interleaved Sampling (CIS) speech signal processing strategy.
55.     The method according to claim 47, wherein the at least one neurophysiologic
measurement includes electrically evoked auditory steady state responses (EASSR),
electrically evoked brainstem response audiometry (EBERA), near field measurements,
and/or electrically evoked compound action potentials (ECAP).
56.     The method according to claim 47, wherein evaluating the neurophysiologic
measurements includes using a genetic algorithm.
                                                23
                                                                               9714080_1 (GHMatters) P99809.AU.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
