                                           ABSTRACT
Biodegradable microcapsules include a biodegradable polymer shell and filling material. The
polymer shell completely encompasses the filling material. The filling material may include one or
more biodegradable microparticles or a therapeutic agent or both.

    WO 2014/047439                                                             PCT/US2013/060922
                   Biodegradable Microcapsules Containing Filling Material
                                            Background
Microparticles composed of a biodegradable polymer are useful for controlled release of
therapeutic agents. Microfabrication techniques employing templates can be used to produce
microparticles having a narrow size distribution. By manipulating microparticle size and
composition it is possible to prepare particles with any of a variety of desirable release profiles.
                                     Summary of the invention
Described herein are biodegradable microcapsules containing biodegradable microparticles or a
therapeutic agent or both. The microcapsules include a biodegradable polymer shell and filling
material. The shell completely encompasses the filling material. The microcapsules can contain
one or more microparticles. Thus, the filling material may include one or more microparticles.
The biodegradable polymer shell and/or the filling material can optionally include a therapeutic
agent. These microparticles can contain one or more therapeutic agents. When the microcapsule
contains multiple microparticles the microparticles can be of a single type or of two or more
different types. For example, the microcapsule can contain microparticles of two different sizes
and/or two different compositions. In some cases each size microparticle is of a different
composition. Because the microcapsule can contain microparticles of differing size and
composition, it is possible to create microcapsules that contain microparticles having different
therapeutic agent release profiles and thus have the ability to release a therapeutic agent over a
period of many weeks or months. Thus, the microcapsules can produce consistently controlled
levels of drug release and in vivo exposure by providing microcapsules that include particles of
two, three or more different release profiles.
Also described are multilayered microcapsules in which the various layers can optionally differ
in composition. Such microcapsules can contain a first microparticle that itself contains a second
microparticle. In such arrangements the first microparticle essentially acts as a microcapsule or
shell for the second microparticle.
The disclosure also features methods for preparing microcapsules and methods for filling
microcapsules with one or more components such as microparticles and therapeutic agents.

     WO 2014/047439                                                            PCT/US2013/060922
A microcapsule can be prepared by providing a template having one or more open cavities. A
layer of a microcapsule forming composition (e.g., a solution comprising a biodegradable
polymer) is coated on the inner surface of the cavities and the composition is allowed to dry
thereby forcing an open shell or cup. The open shell can then be filled, for example with one or
more microparticles or with some other filling material (e.g., a solid, liquid or paste composition
containing a therapeutic agent). A composition, which can be the same as that used to coat the
inner surface of the cavities, is then applied to seal the core material within the open shell
thereby forming a closed shell which completely encloses the filling material thereby forcing a
microcapsule. The microcapsule is then released from the template.
Described herein is a composition comprising a plurality of microcapsules comprising a shell
and filling material, wherein the shell comprises a biodegradable polymer and the filling material
comprises at least a first therapeutic agent and the shell completely encloses the filling material.
In certain embodiments: the average (on a particle volume basis) Dv (diameter of a spherical
particle of the same volume) of the microcapsules is less than 100 [im; the average Dv of the
microcapsules is selected from: less than 90, 80, 70, 60 or 50 p1m; at least 70% of the
microcapsules in the composition vary from the average Dv of the microcapsules in the
composition by no more than 50%; the average greatest linear dimension of the microcapsules is
selected from: less than 100, 90, 80, 70, 60, 50 or 40 pm; the microcapsules are formulated to
release the first therapeutic agent over a period of at least 30 days when injected into a patient;
the microcapsules are formulated to release the first therapeutic agent over a period of at least 90
days when injected into a patient; the microcapsules are formulated to release the therapeutic
agent over a period of at least 90 days when introduced into an eye of a patient; the
microcapsules are formulated to release the therapeutic agent over a period of at least 180 days
when injected into an eye of a patient; the shell is an outer shell and the filling material
comprises an inner shell comprising a biodegradable polymer that encloses a composition
comprising a therapeutic agent; and the composition enclosed by the inner shell comprises
microparticles.
The methods describe herein can also be used to make larger microcapsules. For example,
microcapsules that have greatest linear dimension of between 0.5 and 10 mm. Thus, the
                                                    2

      WO 2014/047439                                                          PCT/US2013/060922
microcapsule can be a cylindrical rod with dimensions of, for example, 2 mm x 0.75 mm. In
some cases the cylindrical rod has a diameter of less than 100 microns (e.g., 30-100 microns, 75
microns, or 50 microns) and a height of less than 150 microns (e.g., 50-150 microns, 125
microns. 100 microns, 75 microns, or 50 microns). In some cases the greatest linear dimension
is less than 300 microns, less than 200 microns or less than 1000 microns. Suitable greatest linear
dimensions can be between 500 (400, 300, 200 or 100) microns and 25 microns, 30 microns or
40 microns. Because the particles are formed using a template, a composition comprising the
microcapsule can be relatively monodisperse.
The total weight of the microcapsule can be 100 to 5000 micrograms (e.g., 250-1000
micrograms). Such large microcapsules can contain a greater amount of therapeutic agent and the
agent can be released over a longer period of time. Thus, a larger microcapsule can release a
therapeutic agent over period of at least 6 months, 1 year, 2 years and the various individual
components of the microcapsule can release therapeutic agents over a period of 3 months, 6
months, 9 months, 1 year, 18 months, 2 years or longer.
Also described is a composition comprising: a) microcapsules of a first type comprising a shell
and filling material, wherein the shell comprises a biodegradable polymer and the filling material
comprises a therapeutic agent and wherein the shell completely encloses the filling material; and
b) microcapsules of a second type comprising a shell and filling material, wherein the shell
comprises a biodegradable polymer and the filling material comprises a therapeutic agent and
wherein the shell completely encloses the filling material, wherein the microcapsules of the first
type and the microcapsules of the second type differ in one or both of average Dv and
composition.
In various embodiments: the microcapsules of the first type are formulated to release the
therapeutic agent over a period of at least three months when injected into a patient and the
microcapsules of the second type are formulated to release the therapeutic agent over a period of
at least six months when injected into a patient; the filling material comprises a plurality of
microparticles of a first type, wherein the microparticles of the first type comprise a
biodegradable polymer; the filling material further comprises microparticles of a second type,
                                                  3

     WO 2014/047439                                                            PCT/US2013/060922
wherein the microparticles of the second type comprise a biodegradable polymer; the
microparticles of the first type comprise a therapeutic agent and the microparticles of the second
type comprise a therapeutic agent; the microparticles of the first type have a first therapeutic
agent release profile and the microparticles of the second type have a second therapeutic agent
release profile; the microparticles of the first type release the 90% of their therapeutic agent
within I to 3 months of exposure to a physiological solution; the microparticles of the second
type release the 90% of their therapeutic agent within 3-6 months of exposure to a physiological
solution; the first and second therapeutic agents are the same; the first and second therapeutic
agents are different; the filling material further comprises microparticles of a third type, wherein
the microparticles of the third type comprise a biodegradable polymer; the shell comprises a
therapeutic agent; the shell does not comprise a therapeutic agent; the filling material comprises
a therapeutic agent that is not in admixture with a biodegradable polymer; and the filling material
comprises a polypeptide.
Also disclosed is a method for preparing a microcapsule comprising a shell and filling material,
the method comprising: providing a template having at least one cavity; forming a layer of a
composition comprising a biodegradable polymer on the surface of the at least one cavity;
allowing the composition comprising a biodegradable polymer to solidify thereby forming an
open shell; filling the open shell with a core material; sealing the open shell by applying a layer
of a composition comprising a biodegradable polymer and allowing the composition comprising
the biodegradable polymer to solidifying thereby forming a microcapsule comprising a shell
enclosing the core material; and releasing the microcapsule from the template.
In various embodiments of the method: the template comprises a water-soluble polymer; the
template comprises a hydrogel; and the composition comprising a biodegradable polymer is a
liquid or a paste.
Because the template used to prepare the microcapsules can be formed using any of a variety of
microfabrication techniques and can include a plurality of uniformly shaped and uniformly sized
cavities, the methods described herein provide a reliable and scalable process that allows
fabrication of multifunctional microcapsules and larger implantable structures. The methods
                                                    4

      WO 2014/047439                                                          PCT/US2013/060922
described herein enable the fabrication of microcapsules with structures organized in a
predefined fashion, i.e., an outer shell of specific thickness and an inner chamber that is filled
with filling material containing various components, e.g., two or more different types of
microparticles. When the shell is filled with microparticles, the number, size, and arrangement
of microparticles can be controlled.
The microcapsule can be filled with a drug in an aqueous or organic composition (e.g., a
solution, suspension, paste or gel) or with dry drug powder. If a composition containing a liquid
is used to fill the microcapsule, the liquid may be evaporated, leaving a solid material such as a
crystalline or amorphous drug. The drug containing solution or drug powder can be present in
addition to drug-containing microparticles.
In some cases the material used to form the shell of microcapsule contains a therapeutic agent,
and this therapeutic agent can be the same as or different from a therapeutic agent that is within
the filling material. In some cases the material used to form the shell of the microcapsule does
not contain a therapeutic agent. Because such microcapsules can protect the drug in the core
material from immediate release, there may not be a burst drug release from the microcapsules.
Alternatively, an outer layer containing drug may be used to provide an initial release if desired
for the intended therapeutic purpose.
The microcaspsules can be formulated for administration to a patient, for example by injection.
The microcapsules can be present in a composition together with one or more pharmaceutically
acceptable carriers or excipients.
A wide variety of polymers can be used to form the microcapsule. Non-limiting examples of
polymers include: poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA), poly(lactic acid) (PLA), poly(glycolic
acid) (PGA), poly(c-caprolactone), and poly(ortho ester), and other natural biodegradable
polymers, such as collagen, chitosan, and poly(amino acid). Combinations of polymers may also
be used. Implant shells and filling materials may be prepared from biodegradable polymers
listed above or non-biodegradable polymers such as poly ethylene co-vinyl acetate, poly methyl
methacrylates, polybutyl methacrylate, poly 1,2 butadiene. Other suitable polymers can include
                                                    5

     WO 2014/047439                                                         PCT/US2013/060922
various homopolymers, copolymers, straight, branched-chain, or cross-linked derivatives, e.g.,
polycarbamates or polyureas, cross-linked poly(vinyl acetate), , ethylene-vinyl ester copolymers
having an ester content of 4 to 80% such as ethylene-vinyl acetate (EVA) copolymer, ethylene
vinyl hexanoate copolymer, ethylenevinyl propionate copolymer, ethylene-vinyl butyrate
copolymer, ethylene-vinyl pentantoate copolymer, ethylene-vinyl trimethyl acetate copolymer,
ethylene-vinyl diethyl acetate copolymer, ethylene-vinyl 3-methyl butanoate copolymer,
ethylene-vinyl 3-3-dimethyl butanoate copolymer, and ethylene-vinyl benzoate copolymer, an
mixtures thereof.
Once formed, the microcapsules can be released from the template by any of a variety of
methods. For example, in the case of a template formed of gelatin or another material capable of
undergoing a sol-gel transition, e.g., hydrogel templates, the microcapsules can be released by
either changing the temperature of the template or placing the template in aqueous solution that
can dissolve the template thereby releasing the microcapsules. In other cases the microcapsules
are released from the template mechanically while preserving the template.
The microcapsule-forming template can comprise a hydrogel such as, but not limited to, gelatin,
poly(acrylic acid), poly(hydroxyethyl methacrylate), poly(vinyl alcohol), dextran, and
ethylcellulose.
Other suitable template materials can include a mixture of Pluronics and poly(ethylene glycol)
(PEG), water-soluble polymers, such as polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) and dextran, and mixtures
of water-soluble polymers, such as PVP and PEG.
Microfabrication techniques employing hydrogel templates are described in: Park et al. Journal
of Controlled Release 141:3 14-319.Other microfabrication techniques employing other types of
templates are described in Whitesides et al. 2001 Annual Review Bioned Engineering3:335-73.
The template can be formed using a mold, for example, prepared by coating a silicon wafer with
photoresist and etching out the desired shape for the template. The template is formed on the
resulting mold. The cavities in the template may be any desired shape such that the resulting
                                                  6

      WO 2014/047439                                                         PCT/US2013/060922
microcapsules can have at least one cross-section that is square, rectangular, round or some other
desired shape.
The shells and the microparticles are generally substantially unifonn mass and are substantially
monodisperse in shape, surface area, height and mass. For example, in a population of particles
(for example a population contained in single dose of a pharmaceutical composition), as few as
1%or less of the particles vary from the average greatest linear dimension by more than 15%
(e.g., few than 5% or the particles vary from the average greatest linear dimension by 5, 6, 7, 8,
9. o 10 microns.
                                             Drawings
FIGURES 1A-ID are photographs of 50 pm diameter microcapsules containing microparticles.
(FIGURE 1A) Microcapsule loaded with blue fluorescent beads (5.5 pm diameter); (FIGURE lB
& FIGURE 1C) Microcapsule loaded with red and blue fluorescent beads (10 ptm and 5.5 pm
diameters, respectively); (FIGURE 1D) Microcapsule loaded with red, green, and blue
fluorescent beads (10 [am, 15 Rm, and 5.5 pm diameters, respectively). Scale bars correspond to
25 pm.
FIGURES IE-IH are fluorescent images of microcapsule containing blue, green, and red
fluorescent beads (of ~5.5 pm diameters) in a series of orientations demonstrating the presence
of the fluorescent beads in its core: (FIGURE IE) Top view along z-axis; (FIGURE 1F) Side
view along y-axis; (FIGURE 3G) Side view at 450 angle, and (FIGURE 3H) Side view along x
axis. The diffused light around the fluorescent beads is due to the scattering and
reflection of fluorescent light in the PLGA matrix.
FIGURE 2 is a photograph of microcapsules with spatially predefined zones fabricated by
hydrogel template strategy. The microcapsules have a PLGA shell containing blue microparticles
and inner core containing red microparticles.
                                                 7

      WO 2014/047439                                                           PCT/US2013/060922
                                        Detailed Description
Figure 1 schematically depicts a microcapsule containing a number of different microparticles.
Each particle may consist of a formulation of drug designed for a specific release profile, varying
from essentially immediate release to extended release. Each particle formulation may contain a
biodegradable polymer and a first drug alone or in combination with one or more of: a stabilizer,
an excipient (e.g., an excipient that decreases release rate or an excipient that increases release
rate), a second drug, an additive (e.g., an additive that increase or decrease release rates of the
surrounding polymer systems, increase or decrease the water content, increase or decrease the
pH of the surrounding environment). Where two or more different types of microparticles are
present they can be composed of biodegradable polymers that differ in chemical composition,
molecular weights, crystallinity, or other factors.
As show in Figure 2, by preparing microcapsules containing various forms of a drug, it is
possible to prepare microcapsules that release the drug over many weeks or months and sustain
the drug concentration at or above the expected therapeutic for an extended period. For example,
the first form is a formulation of drug designed for immediate release upon injection, e.g., native
drug alone in particle suspension medium or drug formulated into a fast-releasing system that
may or may not contain polymer. The second form is a PLGA microparticle formulation of the
same drug having a common PLGA release profile -- initial release, a lag phase, and extended
release phase lasting one to three months. The third form is a PLGA microparticle similar to the
microparticle just described that is encapsulated in an outer layer of a slower release polymer
such as PLA or polycaprolactone. This outer layer degrades over a period of three to twelve
months releasing the inner PLGA microparticle which in turn degrades over an additional few
months. The resulting PK profile is a combination of the three drug release profiles resulting in
exposure above the therapeutic level for six to twelve months.
Among the therapeutic agents that can be incorporated into a microcapsule or into the filling
material within a microcapsule (e.g., a microparticle) including, but are not limited to, small
molecule drugs, peptide drugs, protein drugs, oligonucleotides, antibodies.
A variety of different polymers can be used in the microparticles, including, but not limited to,
biodegradable polymers, non-biodegradable polymers, polymers of naturally derived materials,
                                                   8

     WO 2014/047439                                                           PCT/US2013/060922
natural biopolymers, polymers that form hydrogels, and thermo-reversible polymers. Examples
of useful polymers include, but are not limited to: poly(acrylic acid); poly(methacrylic acid);
poly(hydroxyl acid); PLA;PGA; PLGA; polyanhydride; polyorthoester; polyamide;
polycarbonate; polyalkylene; polyethylene; polypropylene; polyalkylene glycol; poly(ethylene
glycol); poly(alkylene oxide); poly(ethylene oxide); poly(alkylene terephthalate); poly(ethylene
terephthalate); poly(vinyl alcohol), polyvinyl ether; polyvinyl ester; polyvinyl halide; poly(vinyl
chloride); polyvinylpyrrolidone; polysiloxane; poly(vinyl acetate); polyurethane; co-polymer of
polyurethane; derivativized cellulose; alkyl cellulose; hydroxyalkyl cellulose; cellulose ether;
acellulose ester; nitro cellulose; methyl cellulose; ethyl cellulose; hydroxypropyl cellulose;
hydroxyl-propyl methyl cellulose; hydroxybutyl methyl cellulose; cellulose acetate; cellulose
propionate; cellulose acetate butyrate; cellulose acetate phthalate; carboxylethyl cellulose;
cellulose triacetate; cellulose sulfate sodium salt; poly(methyl methacrylate); poly(ethyl
methacrylate); poly(butylmethacrylate); poly(isobutyl methacrylate); poly(hexylmethacrylate);
poly(isodecyl methacrylate); poly(lauryl methacrylate); poly(phenyl methacrylate); poly (methyl
acrylate); poly(isopropyl acrylate); poly(isobuyl acrylate); polyoctadecyl acrylate); poly(butyric
acid); poly(valeric acid); poly(lactide-co-caprolactone); a copolymer of poly(lactide-co
caprolactone); a blend of poly(lactide-co-caprolactone); polygalactin; poly-(isobutyl
cyanoacrylate); poly(2-hydroxyethyl-L-glutamine); poly(DL-lactide-co-s-caprolactone)
(DLPLCL);, collagen; gelatin; agarose; gelatin/c-caprolactone; collagen-GAG;, fibrin,
biodegradable polycyanoacrylates, biodegradable polyurethanes and polysaccharides,
polypyrrole, polyanilines, polythiophene, polystyrene, polyesters, non-biodegradable
polyurethanes, polyureas, poly(ethylene vinyl acetate), polypropylene, polymethacrylate,
polyethylene, polycarbonates, poly(ethylene oxide), polymers of acrylic acid cross-linked with
polyalkenyl ethers or divinyl glycol (e.g. CARBOPOL® 934P, 71G, 971P, 974P), silicone
polymer; hyaluronan gel, PEG-PLGA-PEG triblock copolymer, RESOMER RGP t50106
(Boehringer Ingelheim); ReGel (MacroMed Incorporated), ABA-type or BAB-type triblock
copolymers or mixtures thereof, biodegradable, hydrophobic A polymer block comprising a
polyester or poly(orthoester), in which the polyester is synthesized from monomers (e.g.,
selected from the group consisting of D,L-lactide, D-lactide, L-lactide, D.L-lactic acid, D-lactic
acid, L-lactic acid, glycolide, glycolic acid, E-caprolactone,  c-hydroxyhexanoic acid, y
butyrolactone, I-hydroxybutyric acid, 6-valerolactone, 6-hydroxyvaleric acid, hydroxybutyric
                                                   9

      WO 2014/047439                                                        PCT/US2013/060922
acids, malic acid, and copolymers thereof and having an average molecular weight of between
about 600 and 3000 Daltons), glycerin-based gels, glycerin-derived compounds, conjugated, or
crosslinked gels, matrices, hydrogels, and polymers, alginates, and alginate-based gels, native
and synthetic hydrogel and hydrogel-derived compounds; alginate hydrogels SAF*-Gel
(ConvaTec, Princeton, N.J.), Duoderm" Hydroactive Gel (ConvaTec), Nu-gel*R(Johnson &
Johnson Medical, Arlington, Tex.); Carrasyn*(V) Acemannan Hydrogel (Carrington
Laboratories, Inc., Irving, Tex.); glycerin gels Elta" Hydrogel (Swiss-American Products, Inc.,
Dallas, Tex.) and K-Y® Sterile (Johnson & Johnson). Co-polymers of these various polymers
can also be used.
                                              Examples
Materials & Methods
The experiments were performed using commercially available materials: gelatin, poly(vinyl
alcohol), polyvinylpyrrolidone, dextran, and ethylcellulose (Sigma), poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid)
(PLGA, Akina and Lactel) of different molecular weights (MW 36,000, IV 0.7 dL/g; MW
65,000, IV 0.82 dL/g; MW 112,000, IV 1.3 dL/g) were used in our experiments. Fluorescent
microbeads were purchased from Bangs laboratories. Quantum dots were purchased from
Aldrich.
1. Fabrication of silicon master templates by e-beam lithography
Circular patterns for 500 mn diameter were designed using Auto CAD 2007 program. A 3"
silicon wafer (100) covered with 1 tm thick Si02 layer (University Wafer) was spin coated with
poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA, Microchem) photoresist of 300 nm thick layer using a spin
coated (SCS P6708 spin coating system, 3500 rpm, 30 sec). The coated PMMA photoresist layer
was exposed to electron beam (e-beam) in a preprogrammed pattern using Leica VB6 High
Resolution Ultrawide Field Photolithography Instrument (operating at 100 KV, transmission rate
25 MHz current 5 nA). After e-beam lithography, the silicon wafer was developed in 3:1
isopropanol:methyl isobutyl ketone solution to remove exposed regions of the photoresist. A 5
nm chromium layer and 20 nm gold layer were deposited on to this pattern followed by liftoff of
the residual PMMA film in refluxing acetone. The pattern was transferred to the underlying
                                                  10

      WO 2014/047439                                                          PCT/US2013/060922
silicon oxide by deep reactive ion etching with SF6/02 plasma. The generated silicon master
template was used in the fabrication of hydrogel templates.
2. Fabrication of silicon wafer master templates by photolithography
A silicon wafer was spin coated with SU8 2010 photoresist (Microchem, MA) at 3,500 rpm for
30 sec to obtain a desired thickness followed by baking at 95 'C for 3 min. The photoresist
coated silicon wafer was exposed to UV radiation through a mask containing 10 Im diameter
circular pattern for 12 sec. After exposure, the silicon wafer was post baked at 95 'C for 3 min
followed by development in SU-8 developer for 2 min. The silicon wafer was rinsed with
isopropanol and dried with nitrogen gas. The wafer thus fabricated contained wells with diameter
ranging from 1.5 um to 50 um or larger.
3. Fabrication of dissolvable templates
Temporary templates for producing microcapsules can be made by polymers that can be
dissolved in aqueous solution or in a mixture of aqueous and organic solutions (e.g., water and
ethanol). The temperature can be altered, either increased or decreased from the room
temperature, to dissolve a temporary template. Alternatively, pH of aqueous solution can be
changed for dissolving a temporary template. A clear gelatin solution (30% w/v in water, 10 ml)
at 50 *C was transferred with a pipette onto a silicon wafer master template, or an optional
intermediate template made of poly(dimethyl siloxane) (PDMS), (3" diameter) containing
circular pillars (e.g., of 10 tm diameter and 10 pim height). The gelatin solution was evenly
spread to form a thin film completely covering the PDMS template and cooled to 4 "C for 5 min
by keeping it in a refrigerator. Cooling resulted in the formation of an elastic and mechanically
strong gelatin template. After cooling, the gelatin template was peeled away from the PDMS
template. The obtained gelatin template was ~3" in diameter, contained circular wells (e.g., of 10
[tm diameter and 10 tm depth). The gelatin template was examined under a bright field
reflectance microscope to determine its structural integrity.
A clear poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) solution (15% w/v in water, 5 ml) was transferred with a
pipette onto a PDMS template (3" diameter) containing circular pillars (e.g., of 10 Pm diameter
and 10 pm height). The PVA solution was evenly spread to form a thin film completely covering
                                                  11

      WO 2014/047439                                                        PCT/US2013/060922
the PDMS template and kept in an oven at 70 'C for 30 min. This step resulted in the formation
of a thin and mechanically strong PVA template. The PVA template was peeled away from the
PDMS template. The obtained PVA template was ~3" in diameter, contained circular wells (e.g.,
of 10 pm diameter and 10 ptm depth). The PVA template was examined under a bright field
reflectance microscope to determine its structural integrity.
A clear polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) solution (7.5% w/v in water, 5 ml) was transferred with a
pipette onto a PDMS template (3" diameter) containing circular pillars (e.g., of 10 m diameter
and 10 pim height). The PVP solution was evenly spread to form a thin film completely covering
the PDMS template and kept in an oven at 70 'C for 30 min. This step resulted in the formation
of a thin and mechanically strong PVP template. The PVP template was peeled away from the
PDMS template. The obtained PVP template was ~3" in diameter, contained circular wells (e.g.,
of 10 pm diameter and 10 pim depth). The PVP template was examined under a bright field
reflectance microscope to determine its structural integrity.
A clear dextran solution (10% w/v in water, 5 ml) was transferred with a pipette onto a PDMS
template (3" diameter) containing circular pillars (e.g., of 10 pm diameter and 10 pm height).
The dextran solution was evenly spread to form a thin film completely covering the PDMS
template and kept in an oven at 70 0C for 30 min. This step resulted in the formation of a thin and
mechanically strong dextran template. The dextran template was peeled away from the PDMS
template. The obtained dextran template was -3" in diameter, contained circular wells (e.g., of
10 jim diameter and 10 pim depth). The dextran template was examined under a bright field
reflectance microscope to determine its structural integrity.
A clear ethylcellulose solution (10% w/v in water, 5 ml) was transferred with a pipette onto a
PDMS template (3" diameter) containing circular pillars (e.g., of 10 pim diameter and 10 jim
height). The ethyl cellulose solution was evenly spread to form a thin film completely covering
the PDMS template and kept in an oven at 70 'C for 30 min. This step resulted in the formation
of a thin and mechanically strong ethyl cellulose template. The ethyl cellulose template was
peeled away from the PDMS template. The obtained ethylcellulose template was -3" in
diameter, contained circular wells (e.g., of 10 jim diameter and 10 pm depth).
                                                  12

     WO 2014/047439                                                        PCT/US2013/060922
4. Microcapsules filled with fluorescent beads
Briefly, 100 tl of 10% PLGA (MW 65,000, IV 0.82 dL/g) solution w/v in dichloromethane was
transferred with a pipette onto a 3" diameter hydrogel template containing circular wells of 50
pm diameter and depth. The PLGA solution was evenly spread on the hydrogel template
followed by evaporation of CH 2 Cl2 (10 min, room temperature). This step resulted in the
formation of cup-shaped microstructures in the gelatin template. In the second step, the PLGA
covered wells in the gelatin template were filled with 30 pl of an aqueous suspension of
fluorescent microspheres (glacial blue, 5.5 pm diameter). The gelatin template was then left at
room temperature for 10 min followed by flushing with a gentle stream of nitrogen gas to
remove the water from the wells. Finally, 100 pl of PLGA solution (MW 65,000, IV 0.82 dL/g)
was transferred onto the gelatin template, followed by spreading it evenly on the template. This
step resulted in the closing of the PLGA cups filled with fluorescent microspheres. The gelatin
template was dissolved in water to obtain free microcapsules containing fluorescent
microspheres. The obtained microcapsules were characterized by bright field and fluorescence
microscopy.
5. Microcapsules filled with red, green, and blue fluorescent beads
Microcapsules containing red, blue, and green fluorescent beads were fabricated by performing
the experimental procedure #4 above. In this experiment, a mixture of red, green, and blue
fluorescent beads was used.
6. Microcapsules with blue quantum dots in the shell and red quantum dots in the core
Briefly, 100 pl of 10% PLGA (MW 65,000, IV 0.82 dL/g) solution w/v in dichloromethane
containing 25 pl of red quantum dots (20 ur diameter) was transferred with a pipette onto a 3"
diameter hydrogel template containing circular wells of 50 pm diameter and depth, respectively.
The PLGA solution was evenly spread on the hydrogel template followed by evaporation of
CH2Cl2 (10 min, room temperature). This step resulted in the formation of cup-shaped
microstructures in the gelatin template. In the second step, the PLGA-covered wells in the gelatin
template were filled with 100 pl of 20% PLGA (MW 65,000, IV 0.82 dL/g) solution w/v in
dichloromethane containing 25 pl of blue quantum dots (20 nm diameter). Finally, 100 p1 of 10%
                                                  13

      WO 2014/047439                                                         PCT/US2013/060922
PLGA (MW 65,000, IV 0.82 dL/g) solution w/v in dichloromethane containing 25 pl of red
quantum dots (20 nm diameter) was transferred onto the gelatin template, followed by spreading
it evenly on the template. This step resulted in the closing of the PLGA cups filled with
fluorescent microspheres. The gelatin template was dissolved in water to obtain free
microcapsules containing fluorescent microspheres. The obtained microcapsules were
characterized by bright field and fluorescence microscopy.
7. Microcapsules with in situ crystallizable doxorubicin drug in the core
First, 100 pl of 10% PLGA (MW 65,000, IV 0.82 dL/g) solution w/v in dichloromethane was
transferred with a pipette onto a 3" diameter hydrogel template containing circular wells of 50
pm diameter and depth, respectively. The PLGA solution was evenly spread on the hydrogel
template followed by evaporation of CH 2 Cl2 (10 min, room temperature). This step resulted in
the formation of cup-shaped microstructures in the gelatin template. In the second step, the
PLGA-covered wells in the gelatin template were filled with 30 PI of doxorubicin solution in
methanol (I mg/ml). The gelatin template was then left at room temperature for 15 min to let the
formation of doxorubicin crystals in the wells. This step was followed by gently flushing with a
stream of nitrogen gas to completely remove methanol. Finally, 100 pl of PLGA solution (MW
65,000, IV 0.82 dL/g) was transferred onto the gelatin template, followed by spreading it evenly
on the template. This step resulted in the closing of the PLGA cups filled with fluorescent
microspheres.
8. Fabrication of lithium iron phosphate microcylinders
First, 250 V1 of lithium iron phosphate (LiFePO4) slurry in toluene (250mg/ml) was transferred
with a pipette onto a 3" diameter PVP template containing circular wells of 50 pm diameter and
depth, respectively. The slurry was evenly spread on the PVP template. This filled template was
kept in the oven (80'C, 5h). This step resulted in the formation of solid LiFePO4 microcylinders
in the PVP template.
9. Collection of free microcapsules
Gelatin templates filled with quantum dot/PLGA solution were left at room temperature for 10
min to ensure that all CH2Cl2 solvent has been evaporated from the templates. A batch of 10
                                                  14

      WO 2014/047439                                                         PCT/US2013/060922
gelatin templates were dissolved in a 100 ml beaker containing 50 ml of Nanopure water at 40 'C
and gently shaken for 2 min to completely dissolve the templates. This step resulted in complete
release of the free microcapsules into the solution. The solution was transferred into conical
tubes (15 ml) and centrifuged for 5 min (Eppendorf Centrifuge 5804, Rotor A-4- 44, at 5, 000
rpm, 19.1 RCF). The pellet obtained upon centrifugation was freeze dried and stored in a
refrigerator. This pellet upon resuspension in I ml of Nanopure water formed free and isolated
microcapsule dispersion. The PVP/PEG templates were dissolved in water at room temperature
to collect the formed microcapsules. The main advantage of the PVP/PEG template over others
is that it can be dissolved in water at room temperature or at lower temperatures, allowing
flexibility in collecting the microcapsules that contain temperature sensitive drugs, such as
protein drugs and antibodies.
10. Characterization of Polymer Microstructures
The polymer microstructures were characterized by bright field, confocal fluorescence imaging
and scanning electron microscopy. Bright field and confocal fluorescence imaging was
performed on an Olympus Spinning Disc Confocal Imgaing Microscope BX61-DSU equipped
with Intelligent Imaging Innovations Slide Book 4.0 software for automated Z-stack and 3-D
image analysis. Scanning electron microscopy was performed on FEI NOVA nano SEM and
Hitachi 4800 SEM.
The microcapsules described above are PLGA have a 50 pm diameter and were filled with beads
of different fluorescent colors. Microcapsules having other sizes can be be made by a smilar
process. The microcapsules filled with blue fluorescent beads (5.5 ltm diameter) clearly indicate
that the beads are present in the core of the microcapsule (Figure 2). The ability to mix different
filling material is demonstrated by the filling microcapsules with a mixture of fluorescent beads.
The microcapsules were filled with blue fluorescent beads (Figure 2A) red and blue fluorescent
beads (Figure 3B and Figure 3C), and also blue, green, and red fluorescent beads (Figure 3D).
Importantly, the fluorescent beads are placed in the core of the capsule (Figure 3E, Figure 3F,
Figure 3G and Figure 3H). The diffused light around the fluorescent beads is a result of the
reflection and scattering of the fluorescent light in the PLGA layers of the matrix. From the
positioning of the beads in the core of the microcapsule, one can envision fabrication of
                                                   15

     WO 2014/047439                                                    PCT/US2013/060922
multicomponent nano- and microdevices. Microcapsules filled with different mixtures of
fluorescently labeled beads are useful as markers.
                                                16

What is claimed is:
1.       A composition comprising a plurality of microcapsules comprising a shell and
filling material, wherein the shell comprises a biodegradable polymer and the filling
material comprises at least a first therapeutic agent and the shell encloses the filling
material.
2.       The composition of claim 1 wherein the average Dv of the microcapsules is
less than 100 pim.
3.       The composition of claim 2 wherein the average Dv of the microcapsules is
selected from: less than 90, 80, 70, 60 or 50 pim.
4.       The composition of claim 2 wherein at least 70% of the microcapsules in the
composition vary from the average Dv of the microcapsules in the composition by no
more than 50%.
5.       The composition of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the average greatest linear
dimension of the microcapsules is selected from: less than 100, 90, 80, 70, 60, 50 or
40 pim.
6.       The composition of claim 1 wherein the microcapsules are formulated to
release a therapeutic agent over a period of time selected from the group comprising:
at least 30 days, at least 90 days or at least 180 days, when introduced into or around
the eye of a patient.
7.       The composition of claim 1 wherein the shell is an outer shell and the filling
material comprises an inner shell comprising a biodegradable polymer that encloses a
composition comprising a therapeutic agent.
8.       The composition of claim 7 wherein the composition enclosed by the inner
shell comprises microparticles comprising a biodegradable polymer.
                                              17

9.       The composition of claim 1 comprising:
         a)     microcapsules of a first type comprising a shell and filling material,
wherein the shell comprises a biodegradable polymer and the filling material
comprises a therapeutic agent and wherein the shell completely encloses the filling
material; and
         b)     microcapsules of a second type comprising a shell and filling material,
wherein the shell comprises a biodegradable polymer and the filling material
comprises a therapeutic agent and wherein the shell completely encloses the filling
material
         wherein the microcapsules of the first type and the microcapsules of the
second type differ in one or both of average Dv and composition.
10.      The composition of claim 9 wherein microcapsules of the first type are
formulated to release the therapeutic agent over a period of at least three months when
injected into a patient and the microcapsules of the second type are formulated to
release the therapeutic agent over a period of at least six months when injected into a
patient.
11.      The composition of claim 1 wherein the filling material comprises a plurality
of microparticles of a first type, wherein the microparticles of the first type comprise a
biodegradable polymer.
12.      The composition of claim 11 wherein the filling material further comprises
microparticles of a second type, wherein the microparticles of the second type
comprise a biodegradable polymer.
13.      The composition of claim 11 or 12 wherein when the filling material further
comprises microparticles of a second type wherein the microparticles of the second
type comprise a biodegradable polymer; the microparticle of the first type comprise a
therapeutic agent and the microparticles of the second type comprise a therapeutic
agent and both the therapeutic agent and the biodegradable polymer can be the same
or different.
                                             18

14.     The composition of claim 13 wherein the microparticles of the first type
comprising a therapeutic agent have a first therapeutic agent release profile.
15.     The composition of claim 13 or 14 wherein the microparticles of the first type
release 90% of their therapeutic agent within 1 to 3 months of exposure to a
physiological solution or a patient.
15.     The composition according to any one of claims 13-15, wherein the
microparticles of the second type comprising a therapeutic agent have a second
therapeutic agent release profile..
16.     The composition according to claim 15, wherein the microparticles of the
second type release the 90% of their therapeutic agent within 3-6 months of exposure
to a physiological solution or a patient.
17.     The composition according to any one of claims 13-16, wherein the first and
second therapeutic agents are the same, or wherein the first and second therapeutic
agents are different.
18.     The composition of claim 11 wherein the filling material further comprises
microparticles of a third type, wherein the microparticles of the third type comprise a
biodegradable polymer.
19.     The composition of claim 1 wherein;
        (i) the shell comprises a therapeutic agent; or
        (ii) the shell does not comprise a therapeutic agent; or
        (iii) the filling material comprises a therapeutic agent that is not in admixture
with a biodegradable polymer; or
        (iv) the filling material comprises a polypeptide.
20.     A method for preparing a microcapsule comprising a shell and filling material,
the method comprising:
        providing a template having at least one cavity;
                                             19

        forming a layer of a composition comprising a biodegradable polymer on the
surface of the at least one cavity by applying a liquid of gel composition comprising a
biodegradable polymer to at least on cavity;
        allowing the composition comprising a biodegradable polymer to solidify
thereby forming an open shell;
        filling the open shell with a core material;
sealing the open shell by applying a liquid or gel composition comprising a
biodegradable polymer comprising a biodegradable polymer to the opening of the
shell and allowing the liquid or gel composition comprising the biodegradable
polymer to solidifying thereby forming a microcapsule comprising a shell enclosing
the core material; and
        releasing the microcapsule from the template.
21.     The method of claim 20 wherein
        (i) the template comprises a water-soluble polymer; or
        (ii) the template comprises a hydrogel; or
        (iii) the composition comprising a biodegradable polymer is a liquid or a
        paste.
22.     The composition of claim 1 wherein the shell comprises a water impermeable
polymer membrane, a semi-permeable membrane, a biodegradable polymer in
combination with a water impermeable polymer membrane or a water impermeable
membrane.
23.     The composition of claim 1 wherein all therapeutic agent is released over a
period within 120 days.
                                            20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
