                                            ABSTRACT
  5                                          Data Centre
            A data centre (100) includes at least one rack room (in for example module
    140)having a floor and a plurality of rack storage areas on the floor, each rack storage
    area being arranged to accommodate a plurality of racks (143) in which a plurality of
10  rack-mountable electronic components may be housed, one or more controllable air
    circulation systems (in for example module 122), one or more cold aisles (144) in the
    rack room, each cold aisle being adjacent to a rack storage area, and one or more hot
    aisles (145) in the rack room, each hot aisle being adjacent to a rack storage area. There
    may be a large air duct, in the form of a personnel corridor (123), for transporting, under
15  the control of the one or more air circulation systems, cooling air, above the floor, to the
    one or more cold aisles. The air supply corridor/duct (123) may have a height greater
                                                                         2
    than 1.5m above the floor and a cross-sectional area of at least 2m and a maximum
    dimension in the plane of the cross-section of less than 3m.
20

WO 2010/139921                       PCT/GB2010/000759
                    15/21
                                 141
                          170
               141
                                171
                     Figure 19a
                                170a
                                    123
                172 Fiqure 19b

 WO 2010/139921                                                            PCT/GB2010/000759
                                         Data Centre
                                 Background of the Invention
        The present invention concerns data centres, a method of cooling equipment in a
data centre and also subject matter ancillary thereto. More particularly, but not
exclusively, this invention concerns data centre buildings, for example provided in
modular form. The invention also concerns a data centre building, a method of cooling
electronic equipment in a data centre building, a method of constructing a data centre
building, a method of extending an existing modular data centre building, a rack room
building module for building a data centre, and a door arrangement for use within a
building, for example a data centre. The invention also concerns a method of
constructing a data centre in a space within a building.
        A data centre is a late 20th Century development that has grown as a response to
the increasing demand for computer processing capability and a recognition of the
importance of IT in the place of every business and organisation today. Whereas smaller
organisations have sufficient processing power with laptops, PCs and occasionally
servers, larger organisations require higher capacity centralised processing to serve a
wide range of needs and applications. A few years ago this capacity was supplied by
large mainframe computers, but more recently the method used has been to provide data
centres comprising many networked computer servers known as blades installed in racks
enabling controlled and modular expansion of capacity. The racks also typically house
telecommunications equipment such as routers to handle data flow between the computer
servers and data flow between the data centre and the outside world.
        Data centres can mirror the growth and business activities of successful
companies. The growth of a data centre within in an expanding company may typically
work as follows:
        1. Initially the data centre may start as single rack of servers in an air
             conditioned room - sometimes referred to as a 'data closet'.
        2.   As the organisation expands and along with it the number of IT racks
             employed, the closets become 'Server Rooms' or 'IT Rooms'.

 WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                              -2
         3.  Eventually the number of racks and size of room.expands, often to the point
             where a dedicated building or part of a building houses the IT. Whilst there is
             no strict definition of when the size of an IT facility becomes large, or
             sophisticated, enough to be termed a "data centre", data centres are typically
             relatively large IT facilities providing robust and resilient IT facilities.
             Typically, there will be more than 50 servers (often many more) and at least
             some redundancy in the power supply powering the servers to ensure
             continuity of service.
         4.  As the company grows and/or becomes a multi-national organisation
             additional data centres will be built and sometimes numbers of these will be
             consolidated into 'Super Data Centres'.
         Data centre facilities can require a floor space ranging from a few hundred square
feet to a million square feet. The most prevalent size for a small data centre is five to ten
thousand square feet with fifty to a hundred thousand square feet being the most common
floor area requirement for a large data centre.
         Data centres will typically have the ability to deliver applications spread across an
organisation and/or supply chain and/or customers in differing geographical locations.
There will typically be a dedicated mechanical and electrical (M&E) plant to deliver
power, cooling and fire suppression with built-in redundancy with the aim of providing
near continuous operation. The M&E plant may be located separately from the IT
equipment to enable appropriately qualified engineers to work on either the M&E plant or
the IT equipment independently of the other (thus improving security).
         The IT industry has long recognised the criticality of central computing facilities
and the need for energy efficient operations to control cost effectiveness. Current data
centre technology is the summation of 30 years of innovation and engineering design
thought and has come a long way in recent times. One key problem faced is how to cool a
data centre effectively and efficiently. As explained above, a-data centre can grow over
time according to demand. As a result the following can happen:
         1.  A building is created, or a room within a building is allocated to IT. An
             electrical sub-system of conditioned ('Clean') power is run out to the IT room
             and the building's air conditioning system is adjusted to cool that room.

 WO 2010/139921                                                              PCT/GB2010/000759
                                              -3
        2.    As the data room grows in scale, IT racks are laid out in rows. More IT
              products lead to more heat produced and so increased ventilation and air
              conditioning is required. Typically CRAC (Computer Room Air
              Conditioning) units are added to the end of the rows to provide the cooling.
              Air produced by these units is entrained through a raised floor and exits
              through floor grilles at the front of the IT rack rows. The IT products installed
              in the racks contain integral fans which draw the cooled air from the front
              across the circuitry and heat is exhausted via vents in the products to the rear.
              The separation created by these IT racks creates a 'hot aisle' into which air is
              expelled by the IT products in the racks and a 'cold aisle' from which cooler
              air is drawn into and through the IT products by their integral fans.
        3.    Dedicated M&E plant may be required. The M&E plant is sized based on an
              assessment of the future business requirements (over the next decade for
              example). Direct expansion (DX) or chilled water cooling plant is used to
              chill the air distributed within the data centre. Typically a 'set-point' is
              created to maintain the room at 21 Celsius, allowing for IT heat output and/or
              external ambient conditions.
        The way in which cooling is effected in purpose built data centres often results in
a similar arrangement. Thus, the equipment in the data centre is prevented from over
heating by means of introducing cool air into the room. A typical arrangement of the
prior art is shown schematically in Figure 1 of the attached drawings. Thus, the data
centre includes a rack room 1 defined by walls 2 in which two sets of racks 4 for IT
equipment are accommodated. The IT equipment in the racks 4 generate heat,
represented by dark arrows 6. The cooling of the IT equipment is achieved by
introducing cold air into the room by means of air conditioning units, the cold air being
represented by light arrows 8.. It will be seen that such an arrangement is not particularly
thermally efficient.
        The drive for more efficient use of power has given rise to a need to make the
cooling used in data centres more efficient, as cooling of equipment typically contributes
significantly to the power used by a data centre. For example, the power usage in certain
data centres may require between 2 and 3kW of power for every I kW of power used to

  WO 2010/139921                                                           PCT/GB2010/000759
                                               -4
 power the IT equipment, at least 1kW of which would be related to cooling. The
 efficiency of a data centre may be measured by means of a quantity known as the Power
 Usage Effectiveness (PUE), which is the ratio of the total energy used by a data centre,
 including IT equipment, and the energy consumed by the IT equipment only. If the
 power consumed by a data centre were 2.5MW of which only 1.0MW powers the IT
 equipment, then the PUE would be 2.5 (which represent an average PUE for a typical
data centre). The closer to unity the PUE is, the more efficient the data centre is. It is
currently estimated that the more efficient data centres currently installed operate at a
PUE of about 1.6.
         In recent years, approaches such as adding baffles across the top of the hot and/or
cold aisles, with doors or further panels across the end of the aisle to contain entrainment
of the air have been made, leading to debate about whether it is more effective to
 'contain' the cold aisle or the hot aisle. A baffle arrangement is for example proposed in
WO 2006/124240 (American Power Conversion Corporation).
         Some recent configurations have utilised a new generation of 'in-row' cooling
units in-between the racks, or, attached to the rear rack door. These bring the advantage
of concentrated cooling but carry a high risk of refrigerant leakage. A slightly different
arrangement, potentially suffering from similar problems is described in EP1488305.
EP1488305 discloses a plurality of cabinets forming a data centre, each cabinet housing a
rack of IT equipment and each cabinet comprising an equipment cooling unit within the
cabinet to provide cooling.
         The data centre industry is also suffering from being unable to meet demand
sufficiently quickly and from reacting to the need to make such data centres energy and
space efficient. IT capacity has grown at an exponential rate, doubling about every 18
24 months, in the last 30 years. Cooling capacity and space limits are frequently and
repeatedly reached creating significant bottlenecks in IT businesses. Building a new data
centre to alleviate such bottlenecks and meet demand is time consuming. Traditional
methods of constructing data centres can.take up to 2 years to completion. Also, data
centres are physically becoming larger year on year because current design and
engineering practice seeks to deal with heat issues by assuming low rack density and
spreading IT thinly across large numbers of racks or large volumes of space.

 WO 2010/139921                                                           PCT/GB2010/000759
                                            -5
        The present invention seeks to provide an improved data centre and/or an
improved method of, or means for, cooling a data centre. Additionally or alternatively,
the invention seeks to provide a data centre and/or a method of, or means for, cooling a
data centre that mitigates one or more of the above mentioned disadvantages.
                                     Summary of the Invention
        The present invention provides a data centre building including:
                at least one rack room,
                one or more controllable air circulation systems,
                one or more cold aisles in the rack room,
                one or more hot aisles in the rack room, and
                an air supply corridor for transporting cooling air, above the floor, to the
        one or more cold aisles.
        The air supply corridor may function also as a personnel access corridor. The air
supply corridor may have a height greater than 1.5m above the floor.
        The data centre building may be a building in which all the interior space is taken
up by the data centre. Of course, alternatively, the data centre building may be a building
in which only part of the interior space is taken up by the data centre, with the rest of the
interior space being available for other uses.
        Each rack room may have a floor and a plurality of rack storage areas on the floor,
each rack storage area being arranged to accommodate a plurality of racks (for example
arranged in a single row) in which a plurality of rack-mountable electronic components
may be housed. The racks may be already installed in the data centre building or the data
centre building may be provided without racks. The rack storage areas may include
fixings or other means on the floor for facilitating correct positioning of the racks when
installed. Each cold aisle may be positioned adjacent to a rack storage area. Each hot
aisle may be positioned adjacent to a rack storage area. Cooling air is preferably
transported to the one or more cold aisles under the control of the one or more air
circulation systems.

  WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                                -6
          Thus, in an embodiment of the invention, an over-floor corridor may act as a
 cooling air duct. By using an over-floor corridor as a cooling duct, high rates of supply
 of air iay be achieved whilst making efficient use of the space within the volume of the
 building.
          The one or more air circulation systems may comprise one or more fans. Each fan
 may be sufficiently large to generate an air flow of at least 0.5ms 3 s1. Each
                                                                                fan is
 preferably sufficiently large to generate an air flow of at least I ms , and more preferably
 at least 5m3 s 1 . Together the one or more air circulation systems may have sufficient
 capacity to generate an air flow of at least 5m s-, and more preferably at least 10m s'.
There may be five or moie fans. For example, ten or more fans may be provided, such
 fans collectively being able to generate an airflow of at least 50m s_.
          The hot or cold aisles may each be positioned between two adjacent rack storage
areas. The hot or cold aisles may extend parallel to a rack storage area. The present
invention also provides certain beneficial aspects which may have advantages in
embodiments where there are no readily discernable hot and/or cold aisles. It will of
course be appreciated that the skilled person may also be able, when considering a
particular data centre building without racks installed therein, to discern which regions of
the building would be deemed as the rack storage areas, as the hot aisles and as the cold
aisles. The air supply corridor may be located wholly outside the rack room. More than
one air supply corridor may be provided.
         The air supply corridor may have a height greater than 1.5m above the floor, for at
least 90% of its length. The air supply corridor may have a large cross-sectional area,
namely an area greater than 2m 2 , and preferably greater than 3m 2 . The air supply
corridor may have such a large cross- sectional area for at least 90% of its length. The
hot and cold aisles may each have cross-sectional area greater than 2m 2, and possibly.
                    2
greater than 3m
         In data centres of the prior art it is common to provide under-floor air ducts.
Certain embodiments of the present invention remove the need for such under floor ducts.
There is therefore no need to have a high raised floor in embodiments of the present
invention. The upper surface of the floor may be less than 500mm above the base of the
building, for example. Better use may therefore be made of the vertical space available in

  WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -7
 a building of a given height. The height of buildings may for example be limited if the
 buildings are assembled off-site and transported via road or rail networks in a part
 assembled or fully assembled state. Additionally, or alternatively, the under-floor space
 may be utilised for functions other than air-ducts. For example, cables or other services
 may be routed under-floor.
         Preferably, the data centre building is so arranged that in use air flows along a
path from said one or more air circulation systems via said corridor to at least one of the
cold aisles, such that the air flow is substantially horizontal for the entire path. The path
of air-flow is preferably entirely above floor level. The path of the air-flow may pass
along at least part of an access corridor, separate from both (a) the one or more cold aisles
and (b) the one or more hot aisles, the access corridor facilitating access from outside the
building to one of the rack storage areas. The one or more air ducts and/or corridors via
which cooling air (whether or not heated by IT equipment in the racks) flows may extend
in a generally horizontal direction for at least 90% of their length and preferably extend
only in a generally horizontal direction for substantially their entire length.
         At least one rack room may comprise a plurality of racks. A row of racks may be
provided at each rack storage area. The racks may stand, preferably directly, on the floor.
Each rack may be arranged to house a plurality of rack-mountable electronic components,
such as IT components. Each rack may be in the form of a rack having a multiplicity of
slots arranged in a single column. There may be more than 20 slots per rack. The slots
are preferably arranged such that a single IT component may be mounted in the slot.
Such IT components may include server blades. The IT components may each be
provided within a casing, for example a metal box. The casing may include one or more
vents, for example grilles, at the front and rear of the casing to facilitate the flow of
cooling air through the casing to cool the IT component during use. There may be one or
more fans inside the casing. Preferably, there are at least 10 racks per rack room, and
preferably more than 24 racks per rack room. One or more racks may be housed in a
cabinet. There may be one cabinet per rack. One cabinet may alternatively
accommodate a plurality racks. The cabinet preferably has a vent or vents provided on its
front face. The cabinet may have a vent or vents provided on its rear face.

 WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -8
         One of the hot or cold aisles may be arranged to act in use as an air duct. For
example, the racks, and the adjacent floor and ceiling, may together define a volume in
which air is entrained, causing a pressure difference across the rack, which in use allows
air to bleed through the rack (i.e. to cool electric IT components mounted in the racks).
The volume defined between adjacent rows of racks may include an inlet, for example at
one end of the rows of racks, and outlets (from the perspective of said "volume") defined
in the racks, but otherwise sealed so as to force air entering the volume to exit only via
the racks. (Of course, from the perspective of IT equipment in the racks, the front of the
racks may be considered as acting as inlets and the back of the racks as outlets.) The
bottom of the racks may meet with the floor. The tops of the racks may meet with the
ceiling. The racks may include, or abut, a region of wall that meets with either the floor
or ceiling, in the case where the rack is shorter in height than the floor to ceiling height.
         Cabling may be held above or below the racks in cable ducts that run the length of
the racks. The cable ducts are preferably provided above the racks. Cables may run from
such cable ducts to IT equipment in the racks.
         The air supply corridor and at least one of (a) the one or more cold aisles'and (b)
the one or more hot aisles, may conveniently provide access to the plurality of rack
storage areas.
         There may be a plurality of cold aisles. There may be a plurality of hot aisles.
The aisles may be substantially straight along their length. The data centre building may
be so arranged that a plurality of cold aisles are interleaved between a multiplicity of hot'
aisles. It will be appreciated that a "cold aisle" may be "cold" in the sense that it is
upstream of the rack storage area in the direction of flow of cooling air, in use. It will
also be appreciated that a "hot aisle" may be "hot" in the sense that it is downstream of
the rack storage area in the direction of flow of air from the racks that has, in use, been
heated by IT components in the racks. The hot aisle may be hot in the sense that the
temperature in the hot aisle is, once a steady state has been achieved during operation,
typically higher then the temperature in the cold aisle.
         The data centre building may include an air supply duct for transporting cooling
air to the plurality of racks. The air supply duct may optionally replace the function of
the air supply corridor mentioned above. At least part of the air supply duct may be

 WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -9
 defined by means of the space between two adjacent racks. For at least 90% of the length
 of the air supply duct, the air supply duct may have a closed cross-section having an area
 of at least 2m 2. Thus, in an embodiment of the invention, the racks entrain air-flow and
the air duct has a large cross-section. The duct is preferably elongate in geometry. The
maximum dimension of the duct (for at least 90% of its length) within the plane of the
cross-section of the duct is preferably less than 4m and more preferably less than 3m.
 Whilst the duct preferably has a large cross-section it is also preferred that the duct is not
excessively wide or tall, for example to assist with the entraining of the air flow. The air
supply duct may extend from a source of cooling air, for example one or more fans, to a
plurality of racks. Thus, the air supply duct may extend from the air circulation systems
to the plurality of racks. At least part of the air supply duct may be defined by an access
corridor. The air supply duct may include a vent controllable to vary the air flow along
the duct. The air supply duct is preferably in fluid communication with the space
between two different adjacent racks. There may be a plurality of vents, preferably
controllable vents. In the case where there are two or more cold aisles, there may be a
vent provided that is associated with each cold aisle. The air supply duct (and/or the air
supply corridor) is preferably entirely located above floor-level. It will however be
appreciated that certain benefits of certain aspects of the present invention may be
retained in an embodiment of the invention in which part or all of the air duct is below
floor level. For example, below a method of "hot-adding" a rack room to a data centre
building is described, wherein such a method may be carried out whether or not the air
supply duct is below floor level.
         Above reference is made to the "length" of the air duct or the "length" of the air
supply corridor. It will be understood that the length in question may be the length
between the air circulation system(s) and the racks, when installed, or alternatively
simply the length upstream of the racks.
         The data centre building may be so arranged that there is at least one aisle in the
rack room, the aisle being adjacent to a rack storage area, said at least one aisle including
a doorway to the aisle, and an access door arrangement. The door arrangement may
include a door movable between a closed position, closing the doorway, and an open
position, allowing personnel access to the aisle. The access door arrangement may have a

 WO 2010/139921                                                            PCT/GB2010/000759
                                            -  10
controllable air intake. The air intake may for example comprise a vent. The air intake
and/or door may be arranged to move so as to scoop more or less air from an airflow.
The air intake may be arranged to move so as to enlarge or reduce the effective cross
sectional area of one or more apertures. The controllable air intake may be controllable
by moving the door. The door may be moved, whilst still closed, when varying the
airflow. The door arrangement may include a door and a separate air-intake. The door
may comprise the air intake. The building may be so arranged that, in use, cooling air
flows via said doorway into or from the aisle, for example when the door is closed. The
flow of air through the door, when in its closed position, is advantageously controllable
by means of a controllable vent. Thus, in an embodiment of the invention, the access
door into the data room has a controllable vent, so that the door has a dual function. It
will be appreciated that the air flow regime of the building is arranged to function with all
such doors normally being closed. Thus, the doors are arranged to be normally closed,
for example only being opened when personnel access is required. In another
embodiment of the invention, the door arrangement includes a door that is movable
relative to the wall when the door is in its closed position to allow an air intake to scoop
varying amounts of air from an air supply corridor. In this embodiment, the controllable
air intake controls air flow via a different part of the door arrangement than the part
through which personnel can gain access. The door arrangement may be located on the
end of a cold aisle. The door arrangement may be located on the end of a hot aisle, in
which case it will be appreciated that the "cooling air" that passes via the door will
typically have been heated by the rack.mountable electronic components.
        As mentioned above, the door may comprise a controllable vent. The vent may be
moveable between an open position thus allowing air to pass via the vent and a closed
position. When in the closed position, airflow via the vent (controllable air intake) may
be restricted (preferably substantially prevented). The vent may comprise a row of
vertical blades arranged for rotation about a vertical axis, such that the vent may be
moved between closed and open positions by means of rotation of the blades. The blades
may comprise at least one pair of adjacent blades that are arranged to rotate
simultaneously in opposite directions. The blades are preferably arranged to rotate
together to effect control of the flow of air through the vent. There may be two or more

 WO 2010/139921                                                            PCT/GB2010/000759
                                           -  11
motors to move the blades. There are preferably six or more blades. The blades
preferably extend across more than 50% of the width of the door. The blades preferably
extend across more than 50% of the height of the door. The effective open area when the
vent is open may be greater than Im 2. The vent is preferably arranged such that in the
event of a failure the vent would fail "open".
         The door arrangement preferably further comprises at least one motor for moving
the controllable air intake between an open position thus allowing air to pass via the air
intake and a closed position. The at least one motor is preferably arranged so that the
amount of airflow through the door may be adjusted between three or more levels. The
level of adjustment possible may be substantially continuous as between the fully closed
and fully open positions. The door arrangement may be arranged to receive a control
signal for controlling the operation of the at least one motor. The control signal is
preferably set in dependence on measured characteristics of the air in or immediately
outside the building.
         The door arrangement described above may have independent application for use
within a building, not necessarily a data centre. Also, it will be appreciated that the door
arrangement could be provided separately from the data centre building. The present
invention thus further provides a door arrangement that is arranged to be fitted within a
wall space, the door arrangement including a door allowing human access therethrough
and a controllable air intake arranged such that the flow of air through the door, when in
its closed position, is controllable by means of the controllable air intake. The door
arrangement is preferably arranged to receive a control signal for controlling the
operation of a motor provided to move the controllable air intake. Other features
mentioned above may be incorporated into this aspect of the invention.
         The one or more controllable air circulation systems may be arranged to cause
circulation of cooling air to rack storage areas under a controlled pressure regime. An air
circulation control unit may be provided to control such a process. Pressure sensors may
for example be provided to provide a measure of pressure in different regions of the data,
centre. The control unit may be arranged to receive signals representative of the pressure
so measured, such signals being used to control the cooling of the data centre. The
cooling and/or the pressure regime may of course be adjusted by means of controlling

  WO 2010/139921                                                            PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -  12
 (automatically) the controllable air intake of the access door arrangement mentioned
 above. The data centre building may include an airlock room to facilitate control of the
 pressure regime. For example, the airlock room may allow access to a rack room, whilst
 maintaining the controlled pressure regime. The pressure regime may comprise
 maintaining differential pressures as between the pressure in a cold aisle and the pressure
 in a hot aisle, so that air flow is encouraged from the cold aisle to the hot aisle. The
 pressure regime may comprise maintaining differential pressures as between the pressure
 in a hot aisle and a downstream pressure, for example outside the building, to encourage
extraction of air away from the hot aisle. The pressure regime may comprise maintaining
differential pressures as between the pressure in a cold aisle and an upstream air duct or
corridor. The differential pressure may be required upstream of a cold aisle simply to
enable differential pressures downstream. The pressure differential between two
successive points on the airflow route (for example either side of the racks or either side
of an air intake dividing a rack room from an airflow) is preferably greater than 10 Pa,
and preferably less than 10OPa.
         The airlock room preferably comprises two doors, one door allowing entry into
the airlock room from a location outside of the area of controlled pressure regime and
another door allowing entry into the area of controlled pressure regime. Preferably, an
electronic control unit prevents the two doors from both being open at the same time
during normal operation of the data centre. The control unit may for example allow the
two doors to be open at the same time in the event of an emergency. The building may
include a corridor that allows access between the airlock room and another room, for
example a rack room. Such a corridor may also be arranged to allow passage of cooling
air, for example to a rack room.
         As mentioned above there may be a cold region, for example a cold aisle and a
hot region, for example a hot aisle, the cold region being separated from the hot region by
a rack. The rack may be a predominantly metal rack. Preferably, the metal rack includes
insulation to reduce conduction and/or convection of heat from the hot region to the cold
region. It has been found that adding a thermal insulating layer to shield the metal
framework of the racks can significantly improve the thermal efficiency of the building.
This is thought to be as a result of the surprisingly high effects of conduction of heat from

  WO 2010/139921                                                            PCT/GB2010/000759
                                            -  13
 the hot region, for example a hot aisle to the cold region, for example a cold aisle by
 means of conduction through the metal frame. Thus, in an embodiment of the invention,
 the racks are thermally insulated to prevent, or at least significantly reduce, (reverse)
 conduction of heat from the hot aisle to the cold aisle. The metal rack may include
 uprights, which extend along the lateral edges of the rack. The insulation preferably
 extends to cover the uprights. The rack will of course, in use, include one or more rack
 mountable electronic components. In such a case, the insulation preferably covers
 substantially the whole of the front of the rack, apart from those regions occupied by the
 one or more rack-mountable electronic components. The insulation is preferably
 arranged so that slots in the rack for mounting of rack-mountable electronic components
 may be selectively covered (by insulating material) or exposed to allow insertion of an IT
component (server blade for example). For example, the insulation may comprise a
 facing that extends across the front of the rack, wherein the facing includes a plurality of
removable strips. Thus, each strip may be removably mounted to allow (on removal of
the strip) for insertion of a rack-mountable electronic component into the rack. The
insulation may comprise a portion that extends across at least one of the two sides of the
rack. The rear of the rack may be open. The rack may additionally or alternatively
include one or more blanking plates. For example, a blanking plate may be associated
with each slot and a removable strip may also be associated with each slot. Such
blanking plates may assist in reducing conduction of heat from the hot aisle to the cold
aisle, but may also additionally or alternatively provide a better physical seal between the
hot and cold aisles and thereby restrict convection of heat from the hot aisle to the cold
aisle. Sealing the gaps that might otherwise exist in the area of the racks is important
because otherwise cooling air may pass from one side of the racks to the other via such
gaps thereby bypassing the rack-mountable electronic components which require cooling.
Convection of heat from the hot aisle to the cold aisle may also be reduced by means of
removably mounted vertical blanking strips filling the gap that might otherwise exist
between adjacent racks. Such means may also assist in entraining air-flow through
and/or directly over and around the rack-mountable electronic components. One or more
cables may pass via the boundary between adjacent racks. As such the racks may
advantageously include an aperture on each side to allow for passage of such cables. The

 WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                           -   14
aperture may be defined simply be means of the space between the front and rear vertical
supports on one side of a rack, and the structure on the side of the rack may for example
be substantially open.
        The one or more controllable air circulation systems may form part of a single air
cooling system with built in redundancy for ensuring continued operation of the data
centre building in the event of failure of one of the parts of the air cooling system. The
single air cooling system may be in the form of a separate module, as described in more
detail below. The single air cooling system may for example comprise a multiplicity of
fans including at least one fan more than necessary (at least N+1 redundancy). The air
cooling system may include an active refrigerant-based cooling unit (possibly one only or
possibly two for the sake of redundancy). The air cooling system may include a
mechanical cooling unit for cooling air before it is used to cool equipment in the rack
rooms. The mechanical cooling unit may comprise an air conditioning unit, for example
having DX refrigeration coils. The mechanical cooling unit may comprise a non
refrigerant based cooling apparatus, for example a humidification unit, an evaporative
cooling unit and/or an adiabatic cooling unit. Redundancy may be provided in the air
circulation system by means of being designed for primary operation without refrigerant
based cooling. For example, the use of ambient air from outside the building can be used
to cool the racks, provided that the temperature is below a maximum threshold
temperature (for example 37 degrees Celsius). Use of ambient air, as the cooling air, can
be sufficient (for example when utilising embodiments of the present invention in which
ambient air is treated via a humidity-based cooling unit) for at least 97% of the duration
of the operation of the data centre in certain climates. Thus, the 3% or less of the time
where active refrigerant-based cooling is additionally required may be considered as an
exceptional case, such that provision of a doubly redundant refrigerant-based active
cooling system is rendered unnecessary. Thus, the data centre building may offer
sufficiently robust and continuous operation without requiring two independent active
refrigerant-based cooling systems (of the type requiring mechanical DX cooling,
condensers, compressors, and the like).
        The data centre building is preferably formed from a plurality of separate
modules. One of the modules may be in the form of a rack room module accommodating

 WO 2010/139921                                                           PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -  15
 a rack room. The rack room may include a plurality of racks in which a plurality of rack
 mountable electronic components are housed. One of the modules may be in the form of
 an air circulation module. The air circulation module may accommodate one or more air
 circulation systems for transporting cooling air to a rack room. The air circulation
 module may include a multiplicity (for example four or more) of fans. The air
 circulation module may include an active refrigerant-based cooling unit (preferably one
 only) for cooling air before it is used to cool equipment in the rack rooms. The air
 circulation module may comprise one or more mechanical cooling units. Each rack room
module may include a cooling air duct for transporting cooling air transported from an air
circulation module to the rack room. Such a cooling air duct may extend from one side
of the rack room module to an opposite side. One of the modules may be in the form of a
services plant module. The services plant module may comprise power plant equipment.
The services plant module may comprise fire suppression equipment. The services plant
module may comprise control equipment for controlling cooling and powering of IT
equipment in one or more rack rooms. The power plant equipment (in the services plant
module) may include an uninterruptible power supply (UPS), for example including a
battery back-up unit. The power plant equipment may include switchgear equipment.
The power plant equipment may include electrical distribution equipment. One of the
modules may be in the form of a personnel module. The personnel module may be
arranged to provide secure access to the data centre building. The personnel module may
include office space. The personnel module may include an airlock room. The personnel
module may include a door providing access to one or more data rooms. One module,
not itself being a rack room, may define a cold aisle, or more preferably a hot aisle,
adjacent to a rack storage area in a rack room. In an embodiment described below, the
services plant module (comprising the power plant equipment) includes a hot aisle, such
that a corridor of the services plant module acts, in use, as an exhaust duct.
         The data centre building preferably comprises at least one rack room module, at
least one air circulation module, and at least one services plant module. According to
certain embodiments of the invention, one air circulation module serves many rack room
modules. Providing a data centre building in which a single air circulation module is able
to serve more than one rack room modules enables a data centre building to be

  WO 2010/139921                                                           PCT/GB2010/000759
                                            -   16
 constructed having one or relatively few rack room modules and then adding further rack
 room modules as demand for IT capacity grows, without requiring the addition of an
 extra air circulation module. It will therefore be appreciated that there may be advantages
 to providing a data centre building having one or more rack room modules, and one or
 more air circulation modules, wherein all of the one or more air circulation modules have
 the capacity to cool more than all of the one or more rack room modules. For example,
 the one or more air circulation modules may have the capacity to cool at least twice as
 many rack room modules as are provided. The one or more air circulation modules may
 have more than three times the required capacity. For example, each single rack room
 may have a cooling requirement of at least 10kW, or at least 50kW. Some data centre
 designs may have rack rooms each having a cooling requirement of greater than 150kW.
 A single air circulation module may have a cooling capacity of more than 200kW, and
 possibly more than 300kW, thus allowing for future expansion.
         Each module may have a similar construction. Each module may comprise a
 frame structure having a rigid base from which there extends a multiplicity of vertical
 structural support columns. The frame structure may include two or more beams at the
top of the frame each extending between a pair of the vertical support columns. The base
may comprise a steel frame. The steel frame may be formed by means of a plurality of I
beams. The base may be formed from concrete supported on a steel framework or
sheeting. The module may comprise a roof section. The base may comprise a timber
floor fixed onto a frame. The base may be formed from board material supported on
joists. The joists may be metal. Each module preferably has a length greater than 10
metres. Each module preferably has a length less than 20 metres. Each module
preferably has a height greater than 2 metres. Each module preferably has a height less
than 4.2 metres. Each module preferably has a width greater than 2.5 metres. Each
module preferably has a width less than 5 metres. A module may include a wall
extending upwards from at least one edge of the base. A module may have a base having
an edge extending between two corners of the base, such that the edge (or at least a part
of it) is not associated with a wall, thus defining a substantially open face of the module.
The module may have an open face to cooperate with a corresponding open face of an
adjacent module in a building, so that an open space (for example as part of a room or

 WO 2010/139921                                                           PCT/GB2010/000759
                                            -  17
 corridor of the building) is defined partly by one module and partly by an adjacent
 module. It will be appreciated that the open face may extend only part of the way along
 the edge of the base, there being a wall along the remaining part(s) of the edge. Each
 module is preferably shaped so as to be suitable for transportation by road. Each module
preferably includes structure configured to allow the module to be lifted by,' for example,
 a fork-lift.
         When the modules are assembled to form the data centre building, there may be a
gap between adjacent modules. The gap is preferably between 2.5mm and 50mm,
preferably between 5mm and 20mm. The gap between adjacent modules is preferably
filled with one or more sealing strips. The sealing strip may be metal.
         The present invention also provides a method of cooling electronic equipment in a
data centre building. The method may comprise a step of providing and then operating a
data centre building according to the present invention as described or claimed herein.
The method may include a step of cooling racks of items of electronic equipment by
operating one or more air circulation devices to transport air above the floor via at least
one access corridor, providing access to the racks. The method may include a step of
removing air from the racks. The method may cause the removed air to be exhausted
directly to the exterior of the building. The method may cause the removed air to pass
via an access corridor. The access corridor preferably extends from a location outside of
the rack room to a location inside the rack room. The access corridor may comprise a
door. The access corridor need not be straight.
         The air circulation devices may use one or more fans to push air through the
building. The one or more exhausts may therefore be passive exhausts, in that the
exhausts do not themselves assist extraction of air from the building. The passive
exhausts may include one or more controllable vents.
         The method may include a step of cooling racks of items of electronic equipment
by operating one or more air circulation devices to transport air from outside the building
at ambient air temperature to the racks, preferably without utilising refrigerant-based
active cooling. The air may then be removed from the racks and exhausted to outside the
building via at least one air exhaust. The one or more air circulation devices may be
provided upstream of the racks. The one or more air circulation devices preferably

  WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                              - 18
 provide a sufficient pressure differential, as compared to the air pressure immediately
 outside the building, to be able independently to cause air to be exhausted out of said at
 least one exhaust at a rate of at least Om3 s-I per rack room (or optionally at least 8 m 3s1
 per rack room, or optionally at least 5mIs- per rack room). Such rates might represent
the higher end of the likely range of operational air exhaust rates. The data centre
 building may be arranged to operate at low IT demand levels with exhaust rates of the
order of only 0.3m 3 s~' per rack room. In the case where there are for example, three or
more (or optionally five or more) rack rooms in a building, or a floor thereof, air may be
exhausted at a rate of at least 50m 3 s~' from the building (or floor of the building, as the
case may be), when operating at high demand for example. Alternatively or additionally,
air may be exhausted out of said at least one exhaust at a rate of at least 0.4m 3s-I per rack.
If there are 24 racks in a rack room, such a rate would be equivalent to about 10m 3 sI per
rack room. Alternatively or additionally, air may be exhausted out of said at least one
exhaust at a rate of at least 0.002m 3 sI per slot in the racks in the room. If there are 40
racks in a rack room and 40 slots per rack, such a rate would be equivalent to about
3.2m3 sI per rack room. Alternatively or additionally, air may be exhausted out of said at
least one exhaust at a rate of at least 0.005m 3 sI per rack slot, preferably at a rate of at
least 0.008m 3sI per rack slot. At low demand, the air may be exhausted out of said at
least one exhaust at a rate of as little as 0.00024m 3s-I per rack slot. If there are 24 racks
in a rack room and 40 slots per rack (of which at any given time 10 or more are each
closed over by a blanking strip thereby restricting or preventing the flow of air
therethrough), such a rate may be equivalent to less than 0.2m 3sI per rack room. Air may
be exhausted out of said at least one exhaust at a rate of at least 0.01 m 3s per rack slot, or
possibly at least 0.15m 3 sI per rack slot (such rates again representing the higher end of
the range of likely operational exhaust rates).. Thus, in an embodiment of the invention,
a sufficiently large volume of air per second is used to effect "ambient air" cooling of the
IT equipment in the data room. There may therefore be less of a need for use of
refrigerant-based active cooling. In certain embodiments of the invention, there is for
example no need for CRAC units to be provided. This means of cooling may be used
even when the ambient air temperature outside is higher than 20 degrees Celsius.
Preferably, the method includes a step of operating the data centre and cooling it by

 WO 2010/139921                                                          PCT/GB2010/000759
                                           -  19
means of airflows where the rate of exhaust is greater than 5m3 sI per rack room and also
a step, performed at a different time, of operating the data centre and cooling it by means
of airflows where the rate of exhaust is less than Im3sI per rack room.
         There may be fewer exhausts than there are rack rooms. There may be at least 10
racks per room, preferably more than 20 racks per room. Each building may include
more than two rack rooms. Preferably, however, there are fewer than ten data rooms/rack
rooms per floor of the building. Each rack may have more than 10 slots for insertion of
separate IT equipment units. Each rack may have more than twenty such slots. Thus,
each rack room may, when operating at full capacity, accommodate over 500 separate
equipment units, and possibly more than 1,000.
        The method may extract heat at a rate of at least 5kw per rack room module, or
optionally at a rate of at least 10kw per rack room module. When IT demand is high,
there may be a need for higher heat extraction rates. The method may extract heat at a
rate of at least 50kw per rack room module, and possibly at a rate of at least 80kw per
rack room module. Such heat extraction rates may be achieved solely with ambient air
cooling.
        The method may additionally include a step of detecting fire or smoke. In the
event that fire or smoke is detected, the method may include a step of ceasing transport of
air from outside the building. Such a step may be conducted under the control of a fire
suppression control unit. The method may also include a step of closing the one or more
air exhausts. The method may include a step, in the event that fire or smoke is detected,
of causing cooling air to be re-circulated. For example, the items of electronic equipment
may be cooled by operating the one or more air circulation devices to transport air from
within the building, to the racks and then from the racks back to the air circulation
devices, with an optional step of cooling the air (for example by means of mechanical
cooling equipment). Once air is being re-circulated within the building, a fire
suppression control unit may then be able to discern whether the fire/smoke previously
detected was from outside the building or inside the building. If fire or smoke continues
to be detected, then appropriate action may be taken. For example, fire suppression gas
may be released into the data centre building. Embodiments of the present invention

 WO 2010/139921                                                           PCT/GB2010/000759
                                           -   20
enable rapid deployment of fire suppression gas throughout the data centre building as a
result of the large volume of air/gas that is able to flow through the building per second.
        The present invention yet further provides a method of building a data centre
building. The data centre building so built may be in the form of a data centre building
according to the present invention as described or claimed herein. The method of building
the data centre building may comprise a step of extending an existing modular data centre
building, in which there is provided at least one rack room module accommodating a rack
room having a plurality of racks in which a plurality of rack-mountable electronic
components are housed. There may be an air circulation module accommodating one or
more air circulation systems for transporting cooling air to said at least one rack room in
each rack room module. Each rack room module may include a cooling air duct for
transporting such cooling air from the air circulation module to the rack room, the cooling
air duct extending from one side of the rack room module to an opposite side. The step
of extending an existing modular data centre building is advantageously conducted whilst
the plurality of rack-mountable electronic components in each rack room of the existing
building are operated and cooled by means of air from said at least one air circulation
module. The method may include a step of adding a further (new) rack room module
accommodating a rack room and having a cooling air duct extending from one side of the
rack room module to an opposite side, such that an end of the cooling air duct on one side
of the further (new) rack room module is aligned with an end of the cooling air duct on
one side of a rack room module of the existing modular data centre building. The method
may then include a step of connecting the cooling air duct of the further (new) rack room
module with the cooling air duct of the rack room module of the existing modular data
centre building. The method may include a step of removing an end portion of the
building (for example a further module, optionally in the form of a personnel module)
from the end of the existing data centre building to expose the side of the rack room
module at the end of the existing building to which the extension is to be added. The
method may include a step of blocking off an end of the cooling air duct of the rack room
module of the existing modular data centre building before such an end portion of the
building is removed. By utilising a modular building technique a "hot add" (i.e. allowing
continuity of operation of the IT equipment in the data centre building) of an extra rack

 WO 2010/139921                                                               PCT/GB2010/000759
                                              -  21
room may be achieved in a matter of days (for example less than 48 hours), as compared
to previous timescales of the order of weeks.
         The invention also provides a rack room building module for building a data.
centre installation, wherein the module comprises:
         a base for supporting a floor,
         a plurality of racks for housing a plurality of rack-mountable electronic
components, and
         an above-floor cooling air duct extending from one side of the rack room module
         to an opposite side.
         In an embodiment of the invention, the rack room building module comprises a
steel frame having the dimensions of an ISO shipping container. It may be constructed so
as to be suitable for transporting as a shipping container. Advantageously, this
embodiment of the invention may be used both in easily accessible areas such as city
centres and in remote areas.
         It will of course be appreciated that features described in relation to one aspect of
the present invention may be incorporated into other aspects of the present invention. For
example, the method of the invention may incorporate. any of the features described with
reference to the apparatus of the invention and vice versa.
        The present invention further provides a method of constructing a data centre in a
building. The method may include the steps of:
         (a) providing a space within the building;
         (b) providing at least one hole in an external wall of the building through which
             outside air may enter the space and/or inside air may leave the space;
         (c) providing at least one partition to be installed in the space;
         (d) installing the at least one partition in the space such that the partition(s) define:
                  at least one rack room having a floor and a plurality of rack storage areas
on the floor, each rack storage area being arranged to accomodate a plurality of racks in
which a plurality of rack-mountable electronic components may be housed;
                  one or more cold aisles in the rack room, each cold aisle being adjacent to
a rack storage area,

 WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -  22
                  one or more hot aisles in the rack room, each hot aisle being adjacent to a
rack storage area, and;
                  an air supply corridor for transporting, under the control of the one or
more air circulation systems, cooling air, above the floor, to the one or more cold aisles,
the air supply corridor having a height greater than 1.5m above the floor;
         (e) installing in the space one or more controllable air circulation systems.
         Advantageously, the method provides a data centre that can be used in locations
where the construction of a new building may not be possible or desirable, such as in city
centres. The method may also be used by an organisation with an existing data centre or
data room to easily upgrade the existing data centre or data room to use the present
invention, thereby improving its efficiency. Alternatively, it may be used in a building
that has been purpose-built to accommodate a data centre constructed according to the
method.
         The present invention also provides a kit of parts for constructing a data centre in
a space within a building, wherein the kit includes at least one partition arranged for
installation in the space such that the partition(s) and the space cooperate so as to define:
         at least one rack room having a floor and a plurality of rack storage areas on the
floor, each rack storage area being arranged to accomodate a plurality of racks in which a
plurality of rack-mountable electronic components may be housed;
         one or more cold aisles in the rack room, each cold aisle being adjacent to a rack
storage area,
         one or more hot aisles in the rack room, each hot aisle being adjacent to a rack
storage area, and;
         an air supply corridor for transporting, under the control of the one or more air
circulation systems, cooling air, above the floor, to the one or more cold aisles, the air
supply corridor having a height greater than 1.5m above the floor.
                                      Description of the Drawings

 WO 2010/139921                                                            PCT/GB2010/000759
                                            -  23
         Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example
 only, with reference to the accompanying schematic drawings, of which:
         Figure 1 shows a prior art rack room;
         Figure 2 is a very schematic drawing showing a data centre building according to
 an embodiment of the invention;
         Figure 3 shows a data centre building according to another embodiment of the
present invention;
         Figure 4 is a partial plan view of a data centre building according to yet another
embodiment, including schematic shading of hot and cold areas;
         Figure 5 shows the air optimisation module of the data centre building of Figure
3;
         Figure 6 shows the plant room module of the data centre building of Figure 3;
         Figure 7 shows the rack room module of the data centre building of Figure 3;
         Figure 8 shows the entry module of the data centre building of Figure 3;
         Figures 9-12 show how the data centre building of Figure 3 can be enlarged by
adding further rack room modules;
         Figure 13 shows a multi-storey data centre building;
        Figure 14 is a plan view of the data centre building of Figure 4, operating when
the ambient air is at a temperature of less than 18*C;
        Figure 15 is a partial plan view of the data centre building of Figure 4, operating
when the ambient air is between 18'C and 24'C;
        Figure 16 is a partial plan view of the data centre building of Figure 4, operating
when the ambient air is between 24'C and 37'C;
        Figure 17 is a partial plan view of the data centre building of Figure 4, operating
when the ambient air is at a temperature greater than 37*C;
        Figure 18 is a perspective view of a rack row for use in embodiments of the
present invention;
        Figures 19a to 19d show a rack room door with variable air flow intake according
to a yet further embodiment of the invention;
        Figure 20 shows a rack room door with variable air flow intake according to
another embodiment of the invention.

 WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                            -  24
         Figure 21 shows a perspective view of a data centre building according to yet
 another embodiment of the invention;
         Figure 22 shows an exploded perspective view of the data centre building of
 Figure 21;
         Figure 23 shows a plan view of a floor of a building including three data centres
 according to a further embodiment of the invention; and
         Figure 24 shows a partial perspective view of a partially constructed data centre
according to the embodiment of Figure 23.
                                          Detailed Description
         Figure 2 shows a data centre building 10. The building 10 is rectangular with
external walls 12. The building is divided into front and rear sections by an internal
dividing wall 12a, located approximately one third of the length of the building from the
rear external wall.
         The rear section (on the left in Figure 2) defines an air optimisation room 11,
which provides a system of circulating cooling air in the building 10. Ambient air
(represented by'the light arrow 18) can enter the air optimisation room 11 through an
ambient air intake 13 in the rear external wall. Ambient air 18 can be treated/cooled in
the air optimiser room and this air 18a is then used for cooling. If the ambient air outside
the building 10 is sufficiently cool, the ambient air may be used as cooling air, without
requiring any active refrigerant-based cooling by the air optimisation room 11. Cooling
air 18a passes into the front section of the building 10 through a controllable vent 17 in
the internal dividing wall 12a.
        The front section (on the right in Figure 2) of the building 10 defines a rack room
 19. The rack room 19 houses two rows of racks 14. The racks 14 extend away from the
internal dividing wall 12a, towards the front of the building. Each rack row extends
approximately out to two thirds of the length of the front section of the building.
Although only shown schematically in Figure 2, there are 20 racks in each row, each rack
housing up to 40 items of IT equipment (typically server blades). There may therefore be
as many as 1,600 items of IT equipment in the racks. A blanking panel 14a extends

 WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -   25
between the front ends of the two rows of racks, thereby defining a cold region 19a
between the internal dividing wall 12a, the two racks 14 and the blanking panel 14a.
         A hot region 19b is defined on the other side of the racks 14 and the blanking
panel 14a. Air can escape from the hot region 19b though a hot air exit 15 in the front
external wall of the building.
         In use, ambient air 18 enters the air optimisation room I1 through the ambient air
intake 13. The ambient air 18 is cooled/treated as necessary in the air optimisation room
 11 resulting in cooling air 18a, which enters the rack room 19, into the cold region 19a,
via the vent 17. The cooling air 18a moves over the racks 14 in the rack room 19 to reach
the hot region 19b and in the process cools the racks 14. The resulting hot air (indicated
by dark arrows 16) coming off the racks 14 then leaves the rack room through the hot air
exit 15. It will of course be appreciated that the hot air 16 is simply the result of the
cooling air 18a having been heated by the equipment in the racks 14 and is otherwise
essentially the same air. As such the operation may be considered as involving the flow
of cooling air into the rack room 19, the flow of cooling air via the racks 14 and then the
flow of cooling air (then heated by the racks such that the "cooling air" may then have
less, if any, ability to cool) out of the rack room. As such "hot air" or "exhaust air" can
be considered as heated or used "cooling air". In the Figures air upstream of the racks is
indicated by light arrows and downstream or exhaust air is indicated by dark arrows.
         The volume of air flow through the building may, during certain conditions for
example when outside temperature is relatively high and/or IT loads are relatively high,
be at least 12m 3 s1. The air optimiser module has the capacity to generate air flow
through the building at a rate as high as at least 40m3 s 1 (i.e. more than about Im3 s- per
rack and about 0.025m 3 sI per rack slot, assuming that substantially all air flowing
through the building passes via a rack slot). The volume of air flow through the building
may during other occasions be about 0.3m 3 s, during certain conditions. Such a rate of
supply of air may still be sufficient to cool the IT equipment in the single rack room of
the building by means of ambient air cooling alone for ambient air temperatures of up to
24 degrees Celsius.
         Figure 3 shows a rectangular data centre building 100 with external walls 110 and
a flat roof of a further embodiment.

 WO 2010/139921                                                              PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -  26
          At the front of the building 100 is a hole in the external wall defining an entrance
 111.. On a right side of the building, towards the rear is a second hole in the external wall
 defining a fire exit 112. Also on the right side of the building, behind the fire exit 112 is
 a hole defining an ambient air intake hole 113 (not visible). In front of the fire exit 112
 but also on the right side of the building is a hole defining a hot air outlet hole 114.
         The data centre building 100 is made up of four rectangular modules that are
 placed side to side so that the long sides of the rectangular modules are adjacent each
 other. The ends of the rectangular modules form the external side walls of the building.
The external walls of the modules are formed from steel frames that are welded and
bolted.
         The floor of the modules is formed from steel frames and joists. The floor panels
additionally have timber floorboards. The roof is constructed from a suitable
weatherproof panel system and watertight membrane, including falls to one side of the
roof and external drainage collection. The wall panels of the modules are formed from
highly insulated steel panels, with a fire resistanceof at least one hour. In addition, the
wall and roof panels may also be constructed with magnetic shielding, RF or X-ray
protection. The internal finish of the walls and ceiling is -a plastic coated galvanised steel
finish.
         The modules are connected to each other by using modular wiring systems or
quick disconnects on mechanical pipework. Hence, the modules can be easily connected
and disconnected from each other.
         In the embodiment shown in Figure 3, there is an air optimisation module 120
located at the rear of the building 100, a plant room module 130 located in front of the air
optimisation module 120, a rack room module 140 located in front of the plant room
module 130 and a personnel module, here in the form of an entry module 150, located in
front of the rack room module 140, at the front of the building 100.
        The air optimisation module 120, shown most clearly in Figure 5, includes the
rear external wall of the building 100 and the rearmost parts of the left and right side
walls of the building.
        The air optimisation module 120 contains an air optimisation unit 122 located at
the rear, right corner of the building. The air optimisation unit 122 is located adjacent the

 WO 2010/139921                                                              PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -  27
external right side wall of the building 100 so that an ambient air intake grille 121 (not
visible) on one end of the unit 122 lines up with the ambient air intake hole 113. The
ambient air intake grille 121 includes vents that are controllable so that the amount of air
entering the air optimisation unit 122 through grille 121 can be controlled.
         The air optimisation unit 122 also has a second air intake in the form of a return
air grille 125. The return air grille 125 is located at the right, front end of the
optimisation unit 122, near the end wall including the ambient air intake grille 121. The
return air grille 125 includes vents that are controllable so that the amount of air entering
the air optimisation unit 122 through grille 125 can be controlled.
         The air optimisation unit 122 contains various air treatment apparatus, including
banks of fans, air filters, humidification apparatus and an active DX cooling system. The
DX cooling system includes soft copper refrigeration pipework. The humidification
apparatus is used to provide adiabatic cooling during use. The air optimisation unit 122
also contains an air mixing box (not shown) for mixing the air from return air grille 125
and ambient air intake grille 121. The unit 122 also contains sound attenuation apparatus.
         To the left side of the air optimisation unit 122 is an air supply corridor 123. The
air supply corridor 123 runs from the rear external wall, and along and in between the left
side of the air optimisation unit 122 and the left external side wall. A curved wall 124 is
located in the rear, left corner of the building to help direct air from the air optimisation
unit 122 along the corridor 123.
         The floor of the air optimisation unit 122 is a non-slip safety floor.
         The plant room module 130, shown most clearly in Figure 6, includes two parts of
the two external side walls of the building.
         The plant room module 130 contains a rectangular plant room 133 defined by
plant room walls 134. The plant room 133 is located centrally along a rear side of the
plant room module 130. When the air optimisation module 120 and the plant room
module 130 are joined, the plant room 133 sits against the front side of the air
optimisation module 120 and the left end of the plant room 133 lines up with the left end
of the air optimisation unit 122.
         At the left, front end of the plant room 133, plant room wall 134 is extended to the
front side of the plant room module 130. Hence, a passageway running along and in

 WO 2010/139921                                                           PCT/GB2010/000759
                                           -  28
between the left external side wall of the building and the plant room wall 134 is defined.
This passageway runs along the width of the plant room module 130 and is closed off
from the plant room 133 and the rest of the plant room module 130 by the plant room
walls 134. The passageway joins up -with and forms part of the air supply corridor 123.
        To the right side of the plant room module 130 is a hot air corridor 132 running
along the width of the plant room module 130 and along the external side wall of the
building containing the fire exit 112. The plant room module 130 contains a fire exit
door 135 over the fire exit 112. When the air optimisation module 120 and plant room
module 130 are joined together, the hot air corridor lines up with the return air grille 125.
        The hot air corridor 132 also extends around the front of the plant room 133, in
between the front plant room wall 134 and the front of the plant room module 130. This
corridor extends up to the right side of the extended plant room wall 134. This allows air
from the rack room module 140 (located in front of the plant room module 130) to enter
the hot air corridor 132.
        On the left end wall of the plant room 133 is a plant room access door 131. The
door 131 allows access to the plant room 133 from the hot air corridor 132.
        The plant room 133 contains various apparatus, including fire suppression gas
discharge canisters 136 and associated manifold and valves, a power metering panel 137a
for monitoring the power consumed by each rack in the rack room module 140, a dual
electrical distribution panel 138, an uninterruptable power supply 139a and back-up
batteries 139b. These apparatus are mounted on the internal sides of the plant room walls
134.
        The plant room 133 also contains a process control panel 137b, including a
VESDA (Very Early Warning Smoke Detection Apparatus) fire detection monitoring
panel, mounted on an internal side of the plant room walls 134. The process control
panel 137b receives data from various sensors including sensors in the rack room module
140 and an outside ambient air temperature sensor. This outside ambient air temperature
sensor may be placed outside the building 100 or just inside the building 100, near the
ambient air intake grille 121. It uses this information to control the fans, humidification
apparatus, cooling system and controllable vents in the building in order to achieve
effective cooling of the racks in the rack room module 140.

  WO 2010/139921                                                           PCT/GB2010/000759
                                            -  29
          The fire suppression gas discharge canisters 136 are connected to the air
 optimisation unit 122 so that in the event of a fire (when the VESDA monitoring panel is
 triggered), gas from the canisters 136 can be discharged through the air optimisation unit
  122 into air supply corridor 123.
         The uninterruptable power supply 139a and back-up batteries 139b are designed
 to provide 10 minutes of power in the event of failure of an external power supply. The
 batteries are provided with their own dedicated cooling system.
         The floor of the plant room 133 is a non-slip safety floor.
         The rack room module 140, shown most clearly in Figure 7, includes parts of the
 external side walls of the building.
         The rack room module 140 contains two elongate rectangular rack storage areas,
 the areas being parallel to each other. The areas are together positioned centrally along a
 rear side of the rack room module 140. At the left end of the rack storage areas is an
 internal wall 141 running along the width of the rack room module 140. When the plant
room module 130 and the rack room module 140 are joined, the rack storage areas sit
against the plant room module 130 and the internal wall 141 lines up with the left end of
the air optimisation unit 122 and left wall 134 of the plant room 133.
         Hence, a passageway running along and in between the left external side wall of
the building and the internal wall 141 is defined. This passageway runs along the width
of the rack room module 140 and is closed off from the rack room area and the rest of the
rack room module 140 by the internal wall 141. The passageway joins up with and forms
part of the air supply corridor 123.
         Each rack storage area is effectively defined by a single row of racks 143 running
lengthways along the rack room module 140, i.e. widthways across the building, from the
internal wall 141 to the right end of the rack room area. The two rows of racks 143 are
separated by a cold aisle 144.
         At the right end of the rack room area, spanning across the ends of both rack rows,
is a cold aisle blanking panel 147 designed to close off the cold aisle 144 at the right end.
At the top of both rows of racks 143 are over-rack blanking plates 148 designed to stop
cold air travelling over the racks 143 between the top of the racks and the ceiling of the
rack room module 140. Hence, air can only leave the cold aisle 144 through the racks

   WO 2010/139921                                                           PCT/GB2010/000759
                                              -  30
   143. There is no personnel access possible from the cold aisle 144 directly to the other
  side of the racks 143.
          Air from the supply air corridor 123 can enter the cold aisle 144 through cooling
  air intake grille 142, located on the internal wall 141 in between the rows of racks 143.
  The grille 142 includes vents that are controllable by the process control panel 137b so
  that a desired air pressure regime can be achieved. The cooling air intake grille 142 is
 part of a securable door that can be opened and closed to allow personnel access from the
 air supply corridor 123 to the cold aisle 144 of the rack room module 140. The cooling
 air intake grille door 142 is made from aluminium and/or steel.
          The rearmost row of racks 143 is located adjacent the passageway in the plant
 room module 130 that joins up with the hot air corridor 132. Hence, hot air coming from
 the rearmost rack 143 is directed to the hot air corridor 132 via this passageway. Hence,
 the passageway is defined as a hot aisle 145.
          Around the right end and along the front side of the front rack is a passageway
 that joins up with and forms part of the hot air corridor 132 running along the right side
 of the building 100. Hence, hot air coming from the other (foremost) rack 143 is directed
 to the hot air corridor 132 via this passageway. Hence, the passageway is also defined as
 a hot aisle 145.
          On the right end wall of the rack room module 140 is a hot air outlet grille 146
 corresponding to the hot air outlet hole 114. The grille 146 has vents that are controllable
 by the process control panel 137b so that the amount of hot air 16 that is exhausted from
the building 100 through hot air outlet grill 146 can be controlled.
          Figure 18 shows a row of racks 143 in more detail. The rack frames 143a are
made of metal. Each rack is an open fronted 42u standard universally compatible server
rack. The racks are joined together in rows by filler pieces 143c. The filler pieces can be
a plain infill panel, a vented infill panel (including a mesh panel on the filler piece), a
power distribution support infill panel or a cable management infill panel. It is preferred
for the filler pieces 143c to be in the form of vertically extending blanking strips that seal
the racks and thereby restrict undesirable heat convection. Cables are run vertically to the
top of the racks through the cable management panels and guided through cable trays (not
shown) at the top of the racks. Cables can then be run down one side of the row of racks

  WO 2010/139921                                                            PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             - 31
  143 in cable trough 143d. Hence, the cable is kept out of the air flow and this improves
 efficiency. A gasket seal 143e is provided around the top of the racks 143 to provide a
 seal against air flow.
          Each rack is fitted with a "42u" insulation strip. The insulation strip is made up of
 individual blanking strips 143b that can be removed from the racks. Each individual
 blanking strip 143b corresponds in height to the height of each unit space on the rack.
 Hence, individual blanking strips 143b can be placed on the racks to cover any area not
 occupied by electronic components in the racks. The strips 143b can be removed to
 allow additional electrical components to be inserted in the racks 143. The strips 143b
 reduce the conduction of heat from the hot aisles 145 to the cold aisle 144. Insulation
 material is also placed on the over-rack blanking plates 148 and cold aisle blanking panel
 147 (not shown in Figure 18). Thus, the metal rack includes a thermally insulating
 barrier that reduces flow of heat from the hot aisle to the cold aisle via heat conduction
across the metal rack.
         A floor 149 of the rack room module 140 has an anti-static vinyl covering.
         The rack room module 140 also contains sensors for measuring the air
temperature, humidity level, pressure and air flow. These sensors are connected to the
process control panel 137b in the plant room 133.
         The entry module 150, shown most clearly in Figure 8, includes the front external
wall and the foremost parts of the external side walls of the building.
         The entry module 150 has an entry portal 151 located adjacent the entrance 111 to
the building 100. The entry portal 151 is a semi-circular door surrounding the entrance
 111 to the building. Hence, upon entering the building, personnel pass through the
entrance door 111 into a semi-circular space defined by the entry portal 151 and then
through the semi-circular entry portal 151 itself. The entry module 150 also has a
security/reception area 152, located to the left and to the rear of the entry portal 151.
         On the right side of the entry module, in the front right corner of the building 100,
is a storage and IT staging room 153, accessed through a door 154. To the rear of the
storage and IT staging room 153, located in the right, rear corner of the entry module 150,
is an air lock room 155. The air lock room 155 is accessed from the security/reception
area 152 through an air lock access door 156. An air supply corridor access door 157,

  WO 2010/139921                                                            PCT/GB2010/000759
                                              - 32
 adjacent the right side wall of the building, provides access from the air lock room 155 to
 the air supply corridor 123 of the rack room module 140.
         The air.supply corridor access door 157 can only be opened when the air lock
 access door 156 is closed. Similarly, the air lock access door 156 can only be opened
 when the air supply corridor access door 157 is closed. Hence, loss of air pressure of the
 air supply corridor can be reduced, while still allowing personnel access to the air supply
 corridor 123 and cold aisle 144, through the door of the cooling air intake grille 142.
         On the rear side of the entry module 150 are two central windows 158 allowing
personnel in the entry module 150 to see into the rack room module 140.
         In the right, rear corner of the entry module 150 is a hot air corridor access door
 159. This door 159 links up to the hot air corridor 132 of the rack room module 140 and
hence allows personnel access to the hot air corridor 132, the rear of the racks 143 facing
the hot aisles 145 and the plant room 133, through plant room access door 131.
         The floor of the entry module 150 is a non-slip safety floor.
         The plant room 133 and the entry module 150 contain their own heating and
ventilation system that is not connected to the supply of air from the air optimisation unit
 122. The heating system includes an electric panel heater with an integral thermostat.
         All external doors of the building 100 (i.e. entrance 111 and fire exit door 135) are
made from aluminium or steel. The doors can contain double glazed window panels.
         Figure 4 shows a data centre building 100, similar to that shown in Figure 3.
However, the building of Figure 4 has three rack room modules 140. Each rack room
module 140 is identical. Hence, a building 100 is provided that can accommodate more
racks 143.
         Cooling air 18a from the air supply corridor 123 can enter the cold aisle 144 of
each rack room module 140 through the controlled vents of the cooling air intake grilles
142. The hot air 16 from the racks 143 can leave the rack room modules 140 through hot
aisles 145 in between the racks 143. The hot air 16 then reaches the hot air corridor 132,
as before.
         Figure 9 shows a data centre building with an air optimisation module 120, a plant
room module 130, an entry modile 150 and two rack room modules 140.

  WO 2010/139921                                                           PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -  33
          Figure 10 shows that the entry module 150 of the building 100 of Figure 9 can be
 removed to leave the front of the second rack room module 140 exposed. A blocking
 panel 141a is placed over then front end of the air supply corridor 123'to reduce'loss of
 air supply pressure.
          Figure 11 shows that three (or any number) of additional rack room modules 140
 can be placed next to the existing rack room modules 140 such that the internal walls 141
 line up to create a lengthened air supply corridor 123. Hence, the building of Figure 11
 contains an air optimisation module 120, a plant room module 130 and five connected
 rack room modules 140.
          Figure 12 shows that the entry module 150 removed from the building 100 of
 Figure 9 can be replaced next to the foremost rack room module 140 of Figure 11.
 Hence, the building of Figure 9 can be expanded from having two rack room modules
 140 to having five rack room modules 140.
         As many rack room modules 140 as desired can be added, as long as the capacity
of the air optimisation unit 122 is sufficient to cope with the cooling requirements of all
the rack room modules 140.
         The expansion of data centre buildings 100 can be conducted whilst the electronic
components in each rack 143 of the existing rack room modules 140 are operated and
cooled by cooling air 18a from the air supply corridor 123. Such a process is referred to
elsewhere in this document as a "hot add" process.
         Figure 13 shows a multi-storey data centre building 100. The building 100 has
three storeys stacked on top of each other. Each storey is made up of an air optimisation
module 120, a plant room module 130, three rack room modules 140 and an entry module
 150. The particular type of modular construction employed by this embodiment lends
itself to a fully scalable, and very flexible, data centre construction method.
         In addition, each storey includes a stair module 160 placed in front of the entry
module 150, on the right hand side. Each stair module 160 is rectangular with a height
identical to the entry module 150 and the rest of the modules, a width similar to the entry
module 150 and a length of about half that of the entry module 150.
         Each stair module 160 has an exit door 163 (visible for third storey only) on the
left rear corner of the module 160 such that the exit door 163 lines up with and allows

 WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -  34
 access to the entry portal 151 of the entry module 150. Hence, the exit door 163 of each
 stair module 160 allows access to the entry module 150 on the respective level.
          Each stair module 160 also contains a set of stairs 162 extending from the bottom
 of the stair module 160 to the top of the stair module 160. Hence the stairs 162 allow
personnel to move up to the entry module 150 above.
          Of course, for the uppermost (third) storey, there is no level above and so the
stairs 162 do not lead up to a next level.
        . The lowermost (first) storey stair module 160 also has an entry door 161 located
on the left side of the front wall of the stair module 160 to allow personnel access to the
building 100.
          Alternatively, any or all of the above described embodiments, may not include an
entry module 150. Instead, the front side of the foremost rack room module 140 is
enclosed by an external front wall. The external front wall should include an air supply
corridor access door on the left hand side to allow access to the air supply corridor 123
and a hot air corridor access door on the right hand side to allow access to the hot air
corridor 132.
          In use, the data centre building 100 of any of Figures 3, 4, 9, 12 or 13 operates to
cool the racks 143 in the rack room module(s) 140 by generating a sufficient quantity,
velocity and pressure of cooling air 18a in the air optimisation unit 122. The air
optimisation unit 122 also filters the air using air filters and performs humidification / de
humidification on the air, as necessary.
          The cooling air 18a is pushed out of the air optimisation unit 122, directed by the
curved wall 124 and moves along the air supply corridor 123. The vents in the cooling
air intake grille(s) 142 are controlled so as to ensure appropriate distribution of the
cooling air 18a in the cold aisle(s) 144 of the rack room module(s) 140 in dependence on
the cooling requirements of the IT equipment in the racks associated with each cold aisle
(which may for example be measured by temperature sensors at the rear of the racks).
The cooling air 18a is drawn across the racks in the rack room module(s) 140 by the
integral fans in the electrical components in the racks and cools the electrical
components.

  WO 2010/139921                                                            PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -  35
         The resulting hot air 16 moves through the hot aisles 145 in the rack room
 module(s) 140 and plant room module 130 to the hot air corridor 132. The pressure
 differential between the cooling air 18a and the hot air 16 is maintained at a sufficient
 level to ensure there is no return of hot air 16 through the racks. This is done by
 monitoring the amount of air flow in the rack room module 140 using the air flow sensor.
 The amount of air flow is fed to the process control panel 137b in the plant room 133.
The process control panel 137b then controls the fans in the air optimisation unit 122 and
the various controllable vents in the building (apart from the vents 142 in the data room
doors, which are used to control the amount of cooling air fed to each cold aisle) so that
satisfactory air pressure is delivered to the air supply corridor 123 to give a satisfactory
air pressure differential and air flow in the rack room module 140. The humidity of the
air in the rack room module 140 is monitored by the humidity level sensor and fed to the
process control panel 137b. The process control panel 137b then controls the
humidification apparatus in the air optimisation unit 122 so that satisfactory air humidity
is delivered.
         The building 100 operates differently depending on the temperature of the outside
ambient air. This is done in order to allow the cooling air 18a to be between 18'C and
24*C, whilst minimising the amount of refrigerant-based mechanical cooling that needs
to be performed-on the air by the cooling system in the air optimisation unit -122.
         When the outside temperature is below 18'C, as shown in Figure 14, the process
control panel 137b controls the cooling system in the air optimisation unit 122 so that the
cooling system is turned off. The process control panel 137b also controls the vents in '
the return air grille 125 so that the vents on the grille 125 are open. This allows some of
the hot air 16 in the hot air corridor 132 to re-enter the air optimisation unit 122. The rest
of the hot air 16 escapes out of the building 100 through hot air outlet grille(s) 146. I.e.
there is partial extraction of ambient air 18 and partial re-circulation of hot air 16. The
hot air 16 that re-enters the air optimisation unit 122 goes through the air mixing box (not
shown) in the unit 122 and mixes with the ambient air 18 being drawn into the air
optimisation unit 122 through the ambient air intake grille 121. This results in warmer
than ambient air passing from the air optimisation unit 122 into the air supply corridor
123 and reaching the cold aisle(s) 144 of the rack room module(s) 140.

WO 2010/139921                                                              PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -  36
         The temperature of the air at the rear of each row of racks in the rack room
module(s) 140 is monitored by the air temperature sensors and fed to the process control
panel 137b. Pressure measurements are also taken. The process control panel 137b
controls the vents 142 in the cold aisle doors in dependence on cooling demand and
controls the fans in the air optimisation unit 122 and other vents so that a sufficient air
flow is delivered from the air supply corridor 123 to the cold aisles in the rack room
module(s) 140.
        When the outside temperature is between 18 and 24'C, as shown in Figure 15, the
process control panel 137b controls the cooling system in the air optimisation unit 122 so
that the cooling system is turned off. The process control panel 137b also controls the
vents in the return air grille 125 so that the vents on the grille 125 are closed. This means
that no hot air 16 can re-enter the air optimisation unit 122. I.e. there is no re-circulation
of hot air 16 and there is total ambient air 18 extraction. All of the hot air 16 escapes out
of the building 100 through hot air outlet grille(s) 146.
        The temperature of the air at the rear of each row of racks in the rack room
module(s) 140 is monitored by the air temperature sensors and fed to the process control
panel 137b. Pressure measurements are also taken. The process control panel 137b
controls the vents 142 in the cold aisle doors in dependence on cooling demand and
controls the fans in the air optimisation unit 122 so that a sufficient air flow is delivered
from the air supply corridor 123 to the cold aisles in the rack room module(s) 140 to a
satisfactory temperature.
        When the outside temperature is between 24 and 37*C, as shown in Figure 16, the
process control panel 137b controls the cooling system in the air optimisation unit 122 so
that the cooling system is turned on and set to cool the cooling air 18a leaving the air
optimisation unit 122 down to a maximum of 24*C. This is achieved by using the
humidification unit to cause adiabatic cooling of the air. At this stage no refrigerant
based active cooling is required. The process control panel 137b also controls the vents
in the return air grille 125 so that the vents on the grille 125 are closed. This means that
no hot air 16 can re-enter the air optimisation unit 122. I.e. there is no re-circulation of
hot air 16 and there is total ambient air 18 extraction. All of the hot air 16 escapes out of
the building 100 through hot air outlet grille(s) 146.

 WO 2010/139921                                                              PCT/GB2010/000759
                                            -   37
         The temperature of the air at the rear of each row of racks in the rack room
 module(s) 140 is monitored by the air temperature sensors and fed to the process control
panel 137b. The process control panel 137b then controls the cooling air flow regime so
that a sufficient air flow is delivered from the air supply corridor 123 to the cold aisles.
         When the outside temperature is above 370 C, as shown in Figure 17, the process
control panel 137b controls the cooling system in the air optimisation unit 122 so that the
cooling system is turned on and set to cool the cooling air 18a leaving the air optimisation
unit 122 down to a maximum of 24'C. This is achieved by means of additionally using
DX-mechanical (refrigerant-based) cooling. The process control panel 137b also controls
the vents in the return air grille 125 and hot air outlet grille 146 so that the vents on the
grille 125 are open and the vents on hot air outlet grille(s) 146 are closed. This ensures
all the hot air 16 re-enters the air optimisation unit 122. Le. there is total re-circulation of
hot air 16 and no ambient air 18 extraction. The process control panel 137b also controls
the vents of ambient air intake grille 121 so they are closed. The hot air 16 goes through
the air mixing box (not shown) in the air optimisation unit 122 and is re-cooled by the
cooling system in the air optimisation unit 122.
         The temperature of the air at the rear of the racks in the rack room module(s) 140
is monitored by the air temperature sensors and fed to the process control panel 137b.
The process control panel 137b then controls the cooling air flow regime so that a
sufficient air flow is delivered from the air supply corridor 123 to the cold aisles.
         In the event of the VESDA (Very Early Warning Smoke Detection Apparatus)
system detecting a fire, the process control panel 137b activates the fire suppression gas
discharge canisters 136. Hence, gas is discharged through the air optimisation unit 122
into air supply corridor 123. At the same time, the process control panel 137b closes
vents in the hot air outlet grille(s) 146 and opens vents in the return air grille 125 to
ensure the air inside the building 100 is re-circulated. The VESDA system may as an
initial step cause air flow into and/or out of the building to be ceased and to operate the
building in an air re-circulation mode. On the one hand, if smoke is no longer detected
then there may be no need to release the fire suppression gas. On the other hand, if
smoke continues to be detected then it may be deduced that the cause of the smoke is

 WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -  38
 within the building and not an external fire. Fire suppression is then released only as
 necessary.
         As the fire suppression gas rapidly expands, release vents (not shown) in the
 building 100 are activated to maintain the building integrity.
         In the event of a power cut to the external power supply of the building 100, the
 uninterruptable power supply 139a and back-up batteries 139b are turned on and can
provide clean power to allow continuous operation of the racks 143 and other essential
 services for 10 minutes.
         When a data centre building 100 is required, the different modules can be
individually delivered on trucks, such as 40 foot articulated or flat bed trucks. The
buildings are typically less than 4.2m high and therefore are readily transported via road
or rail. The modules can then be craned into place using integral lifting eyes (not shown)
on the modules or using slings. The building 100 can be sited on a flat area of concrete.
Alternatively, the building 100 can be placed on concrete blockwork if the site is not
level or if the level of the building 100 is to match an existing building level.
         The building 100 is then connected to the existing site drainage system,
telecommunications supply, water supply and electrical power supply. Alternatively, a
supplementary power generation unit can be added. The building 100 can also be
connected to the existing building management systems, security systems or fire alarm
systems of the site.
         When it is required to relocate the data centre building, this can be done by
disconnecting the external power supply etc. and individually craning modules onto
trucks to be delivered and re-set up elsewhere.
         In an alternative embodiment, shown in Figures 21 and 22, each module has the
dimensions of an ISO shipping container and is constructed so that it may be transported
as a shipping container. ISO shipping containers come in a range of lengths and heights
but are all 2259 mm wide between the corner fittings (measured from the centre of the
hole in the fitting). Common lengths are approximately 6 m, approximately 12 m and
approximately 14 m.
        Each module comprises a steel framework, with the vertical parts of this
framework including an integrated drainage system (not shown). The walls, roof and

 WO 2010/139921                                                           PCT/GB2010/000759
                                            -  39
floor of each module are made of corrugated steel. Although in this embodiment the
dimensions of the modules are different to those in the embodiments described above, the
way the modules are fitted out and connected together is substantially the same. The
layout of a data centre built using this type of module can therefore take any of the same
forms as a data centre built using the modules shown in Figs 3-17.
         Figure 21 shows a data centre 200 constructed from container-sized modules. It
comprises an air optimisation module 220, a plant room module 230, eight rack room
modules 240, and a hot aisle unit 250: An end wall of the air optimisation module 220
and an end wall of one of the rack room modules 240 have been replaced with an air
intake 260 and an exhaust air outlet 270 respectively. One or more of the panels forming
an external wall of the data centre 200 may include a door (not shown). Figure 22 is an
exploded view of the data centre of Figure 21.
        A further embodiment of the invention is illustrated by Figures 23 and 24. Figure
23 shows the layout of a storey of a building into which three data centres 300a, 300b and
300c according to the invention have been installed. Part 380 of the storey is not taken up
by a data centre and this may be used for another purpose such as office space or storage.
Data centres 300a and 300b each comprise two air optimisation rooms 320, two plant
rooms 330, a rack room 340 and an air supply corridor 350. Data centre 300c comprises
an air optimisation room 320, a plant room 330, a rack room 340 and an air supply
corridor 350. Holes (not shown) have been made in the walls of the building to serve as
intakes for outside air and outlets for exhaust air.
        Data centres 300a, 300b and 300c have been constructed by installing partitions
into a space in the existing building. The partitions are formed using a kit of parts
consisting of metal girders and insulated steel panels. Figure 24 shows a partially
constructed data centre 300 according to this embodiment of the invention. A framework
400 built from the metal girders has been constructed in a space within a building. The
space has a concrete floor. Wall panels 410 and ceiling panels 420 are attached to this
framework. Panels including dampers (not shown) are positioned so as to line up with the
intake and outlet holes in the exterior walls of the building. Ladder racks 430 are
suspended above the ceiling panels 420 to support the cabling and other mechanical and
electrical services that are provided to the racks. The panels are arranged to form a data

  WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -  40
 centre having an air optimisation room, a plant room, a rack room, and an air supply
 corridor. The layout of the data centre is the same as in other embodiments of the
 invention. The rack room includes separate hot aisles and cold aisles in the same
 arrangement as in the other embodiments of the invention.
          For countries in the Northern Hemisphere, it is anticipated that the ambient air
 temperature will be below 37'C 97% of the time. Hence, for these countries, the building
 100 can operate in either of the first three modes of operation described for 97% of the
 time. Hence, for 97% of the time, the building 100 only uses ambient airflow and
 humidity-controlled cooling and does not need to rely on refrigerant-based cooling. This
 dramatically reduces the energy consumption of the data centre building 100.
          Even in the hottest, driest or most humid locations on the planet, the building can
 still operate in the first or second mode a significant proportion of the time and therefore
can use only air flow cooling. Even at temperatures of up to 37'C, the building 100 will
operate in the third mode of operation and therefore can still utilise efficient means of
cooling.
          The most common benchmark of energy efficiency for data centres is power
usage efficiency (PUE). In this embodiment, this may conveniently be defined as the
total energy used by the data centre divided by the energy deployed to the racks 143.
Typical prior art data centres have a PUE of greater than 1.5. A data centre building 100
of the present invention could have a PUE of less than 1.2 for most parts of the world.
This figure would increase for hotter parts of the world where refrigerant-based
mechanical cooling has to be used more often.
          In the above-described embodiments, the securable door allowing personnel
access from the air supply corridor 123 to the cold aisle 144 of the rack room module 140
includes an adjustable air intake means in the form of an air intake grille 142 including
vents. The door can be configured differently to provide cooling air 18a into the cold
aisle 144 via the doorway. Figures 19a, b, c and d show such a door 170. The door is
mounted in a door frame 170a. The door frame is hinged to the internal wall 141 of the
room module 140, adjacent a door hole in the internal wall, along a first side 171 of the
door frame. The first side 171 of the door frame is the side furthest from the air
optimisation unit 122. The door frame 170a is hinged to a first side of an air intake grille

  WO 2010/139921                                                           PCT/GB2010/000759
                                            -  41
172 along a second opposite side of the door frame. The grille is attached to the internal
wall 141 by a hinge along a second opposite side of the grille. The hinge is also slidable
along the internal wall 141. When the door frame 170a is in a closed position, as shown
in Figures 19a and 19b, the door frame and grille 172 lie in line with each other and
parallel to the internal wall 141, such that the door and door frame covers the hole in the
internal wall 141 and the grille lies flush behind the wall 141. The door 170 can be
opened from the door frame 170a when the frame is in the closed position. When the door
frame is in an open position, as shown in Figure 19d, the door frame is hinged away from
the hole in the wall 141. The grille pivots with respect to the door frame and by the hinge
on the internal wall 141 and the internal wall hinge slides along the internal wall 141
such that the second side of the grille remains in contact with the internal wall 141 and
the first side of the grille remains connected to the second side of the door frame. Hence,
an angled path against the door and door frame and through the grille is provided for air
in the air supply corridor 123. The door arrangement therefore acts as a variable air inlet
scoop. The air thus flows from bottom to top as shown in Figures 19c and d (the air
supply corridor being below the doorway in the Figures). The door can also be opened
from the door frame in the open position, as shown in Figure 19c. The door frame and
grille can also be positioned in a number of intermediate positions between the fully open
 and fully closed positions described above. The door arrangement could of course also
be used in a reverse configuration, so that first side of the door frame is the side nearest
 the air optimisation unit with air flowing from the top to bottom as shown in Figures 19c
 and d (the air supply corridor being below the doorway in the Figures).
         Figure 20 shows yet another embodiment of a door 180 for allowing personnel
 access therethrough whilst also providing a means for controlling airflow through the
 door whilst the door is in its closed position. The door thus includes adjustable air intake
 means in the form of a vent 181 having a number of vertical blades 182 arranged in a
 row. The blades are each mounted for rotation about a vertical axis, such that the vent
 may be moved between closed and open positions by means of rotation of the blades.
 The blades 182 are arranged such that pairs of adjacent blades are arranged to rotate
 simultaneously in opposite directions. Having such an arrangement facilitates better
 control of the air-floW in comparison to the'case where all blades rotate in the same

 WO 2010/139921                                                            PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             - 42
direction. Two motors (not shown) are arranged to move the blades 182, one motor for
the odd-numbered blades and one motor for the even-numbered blades (counting from
left to right). (It will be appreciated that one motor could be arranged to control all the
blades.) The area covered by the blades extends across about 80% of the width of the
door. The area covered by the blades 182 extends across about 60% of the height of the
door.' The effective open area when the vent 181 is fully open is about 1.4m 2. The vent
is arranged such that in the event of a failure the vent fails "open".
         The door arrangement includes a flexible cable 183 that runs from the motors to
the hinge 184 side of the door and then onto the structure of the adjacent wall 185. The
cable carries a control signal which controls the operation of the motors. The control
signal is preferably set in dependence on measured characteristics of the air in or
immediately outside the building.
         Whilst the present invention has been described and illustrated with reference to
particular embodiments, it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the
invention lends itself to many different variations not specifically illustrated herein. By
way of example only, certain possible variations will now be described.
         The air supply corridor 123 from the air optimisation unit 122 to the rack room
module(s) 140 may be independent of the passageway leading to the rack room module(s)
140. The air may be supplied at least partially via an under-floor duct.
         The data centre building 100 need not be constructed from separate modules.
         Moreover, cooling air may be transported through a wall of the rack room via one
or more apertures or passageways in the wall that are not arranged to permit personnel
access. There may be an access door to the rack room that is not part of the intended path
for cooling air.
         The racks and aisles defined by the racks need not be straight and/or rectangular
in plan-view.
         Where in the foregoing description, integers or elements are mentioned which
have known, obvious or foreseeable equivalents, then such equivalents are herein
incorporated as if individually set forth. Reference should be made to the claims for
determining the true scope of the present invention, which should be construed so as to
encompass any such equivalents. It will also be appreciated by the reader that integers or

 WO 2010/139921                                                          PCT/GB2010/000759
                                           - 43
features of the invention that are described as preferable, advantageous, convenient or the
like are optional and do not limit the scope of the independent claims. Moreover, it is to
be understood that such optional integers or features, whilst of possible benefit in some
embodiments of the invention, may not be desirable, and may therefore be absent, in
other embodiments.

WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                            -  44
Claims
 1.      A data centre building including
         at least one rack room having a floor and a plurality of rack storage areas on the'
floor, each rack storage area being arranged to accommodate a plurality of racks in which
a plurality of rack-mountable electronic components may be housed,
         one or more controllable air circulation systems,
         one or more cold aisles in the rack room, each cold aisle being adjacent to a rack
storage area,
         one or more hot aisles in the rack room, each hot aisle being adjacent to a rack
storage area, and
         an air supply corridor for transporting, under the control of the one or more air
circulation systems, cooling air, above the floor, to the one or more cold aisles, the air
supply corridor having a height greater than 1.5m above the floor.
2.       A data centre building according to claim 1, wherein the air supply corridor and
the one or more hot aisles and cold aisles each have a cross-sectional area greater than
    2
2m2
3.       A data centre building according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the upper surface
of the floor is less than 500mm above the base of the building.
4.       A data centre building according to any preceding claim, wherein a row of racks
is provided at each rack storage area, the racks standing on the floor.
5.       A data centre building according to any preceding claim, wherein the air supply
corridor and at least one of (a) the one or more cold aisles and (b) the one or more hot
aisles, provide access to the plurality of rack storage areas.
6.       A data centre building including

WO 2010/139921                                                              PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -  45-
         at least one rack room having a plurality of racks arranged in a plurality of rows,
 each rack being arranged to house a plurality of rack-mountable electronic components,
         one or more controllable air circulation systems,
         an air supply duct for transporting, under the control of the one or more air
circulation systems, cooling air to the plurality of racks, wherein
         the air supply duct extends from said one or more controllable air circulation
systems to said plurality of racks and at least part of the air supply duct is defined by
means of the space between two adjacent rows of racks, and
         for at least 90% of the length of the air supply duct, the air supply duct has a
closed cross-section having an area of at least 2m2 and a maximum dimension in the
plane of the cross-section of less than 3m.
7.       A data centre building according to claim 6, wherein the air supply duct includes a
vent controllable to vary the air flow along the duct.
8.       A data centre building including
         at least one rack room having a plurality of rack storage areas, each rack storage
area being arranged to accommodate a rack in which-a plurality of rack-mountable
electronic components may be housed,
         one or more controllable air circulation systems for causing circulation of cooling
air to the plurality of rack storage areas, and
         at least one aisle in the rack room, the aisle being adjacent to a rack storage area,
said at least one aisle including a doorway to the aisle, and an access door arrangement
including a door, the door arrangement being movable between a closed position closing
the doorway and an open position allowing personnel access to the aisle,
         wherein
         the door arrangement has a controllable air intake,
         the building is so arranged that, in use, cooling air flows via said-doorway into or
from the aisle when the door is in its closed position and the flow of air through the door,
when in its closed position, is controllable by means of the controllable air intake.

WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                            -  46
9.       A data centre building according to claim 8, wherein the controllable air intake is
located in the door.
 10.     A data centre building according to claim 8 ork9, wherein the controllable air
intake comprises a row of vertical blades arranged for rotation about a vertical axis, at
least one pair of adjacent blades being arranged to rotate simultaneously in opposite
directions.
 11.     A data centre building according to any of claims 8 to 10, wherein the controllable
air intake extends across more than 50% of the width of the door and more than 50% of
the height of the door.
 12.     A data centre building including
         at least one rack room having a plurality of rack storage areas, each rack storage
area being arranged to accommodate a rack in which a plurality of rack-mountable
electronic components may be housed,
         one or more controllable air circulation systems for causing circulation of cooling
air to the plurality of rack storage areas under a controlled pressure regime,
         an airlock room to allow access to said at least one rack room, whilst maintaining
the controlled pressure regime, and
         a corridor that allows personnel access between the airlock room and said at least
one rack room,
         the corridor being arranged to allow passage of cooling air to or from the plurality
of rack storage areas.
 13.     A data centre building including
         at least one rack room having a plurality of racks, each rack being arranged to
house a plurality of rack-mountable electronic components,
         at least one cold region and at least one hot region, the cold region being
separated. from the hot region by a metal rack, and

WO 2010/139921                                                              PCT/GB2010/000759
                                             -  4*7
        one or more air circulation systems for transporting cooling air to said at least one
cold region, via the metal rack, to the hot region,
        the metal rack including insulation to reduce conduction of heat from the hot
region to the cold region.
 14.    A data centre building according to claim 13, wherein the metal rack includes
uprights and the insulation extends to cover the uprights.
 15.    A data centre building according to claim 13 or claim 14, wherein the racks
include insulation to reduce convection of heat from the hot aisle to the cold aisle.
 16.    A data centre building according to any of claims 13 to 15, wherein the insulation
comprises a facing that extends across the front of the rack, and
        the facing includes a plurality of removable strips, each of which may be removed
to allow for insertion of a rack-mountable electronic component into the rack.
17.     A method of cooling electronic equipment in a data centre building comprising
the steps of:
        providing a data centre building including
                 at least one rack room having a plurality of racks mounted on the floor, the
        racks accommodating a multiplicity of rack-mountable items of electronic
        equipment,
                 one or more access corridors facilitating access to the items of electronic
        equipment,
                 and one or more air circulation devices, and
        cooling the items of electronic equipment by operating the one or more air
circulation devices to transport air above the floor to the racks, via the racks and then
from the racks, wherein
        the air travels via at least one of the access corridors to and/or from the racks.

WO 2010/139921                                                             PCT/GB2010/000759
                                              - 48
 18.    A method of cooling electronic equipment according to claim 17, wherein the
access corridor extends from a location outside of the rack room to a location inside the
rack room.
19.     A method of extending an existing modular data centre building comprising
                 at least one rack room module accommodating a rack room having a
        plurality of racks in which a plurality of rack-mountable electronic components
        are housed,
                 at least one air circulation module accommodating one or more air
        circulation systems for transporting cooling air to said at least one rack room in
        each rack room module, each rack room module including a cooling air duct for
        transporting such cooling air from the air circulation module to the rack room, the
        cooling air duct extending from one side of the rack room module to an opposite
        side,
                 the method comprising the following steps, which are conducted whilst the
        plurality of rack-mountable electronic components in each rack room are operated
        and cooled by means of air from said at least one air circulation module:
                 adding a further rack room module accommodating a rack room and
        having a cooling air duct extending from one side of the rack room module to an
        opposite side, such that an end of the cooling air duct on one side of the further
        rack room module is aligned with an end of the cooling air duct on one side of the
        a rack room module of the existing modular data centre building, and
                 connecting the cooling air duct of the further rack room module with the
        cooling air duct of the rack room module of the existing modular data centre
        building.
20.     A method according to claim 19, wherein the air duct forms an above-floor
corridor that allows access to the rack room.
21.     A rack room building module for building a data centre installation, wherein the
module comprises:

WO 2010/139921                                                           PCT/GB2010/000759
                                           -  49
        a base for supporting a floor,
        a plurality of racks for housing a plurality of rack-mountable electronic
components, and
        an above-floor cooling air duct extending from one side of the rack room module
to an opposite side.
22.     A rack room building module according to claim 21, wherein the module
comprises a steel frame having the dimensions of an ISO shipping container.
23.     A door arrangement for use within a building, wherein
        the door arrangement is arranged to be fitted within a wall space,
        the door arrangement includes a door allowing human access therethrough,
        the door arrangement comprises a controllable air intake arranged such that the
flow of air through the door, when in its closed position, is controllable by means of the
controllable air intake
        the door arrangement comprises at least one motor for moving the controllable air
intake between an open position thus allowing air to pass via the air intake and a closed
position,
        the door arrangement is arranged to receive a control signal for controlling the
operation of the motor.
24.     A door arrangement according to claim 23, wherein the controllable air intake is
in the form of a vent within the door shaped such that the vent extends across more than
50% of the width of the door and across more than 50% of the height of the door.
25.     A door arrangement according to claim 23 or 24, wherein the controllable air
intake comprises a plurality of blades all arranged to rotate about parallel axes, the blades
comprising at least one pair of adjacent blades that are arranged to rotate simultaneously
in opposite directions.

 WO 2010/139921                                                              PCT/GB2010/000759
                                              -  50
 26.     A method of constructing a data centre in a building, wherein the method includes
 the steps of:
         (a) providing a space within the' building;
         (b) providing at least one hole in an external wall of the building through which.
outside air may enter the space and/or inside air may leave the space;
         (c) providing at least one partition to be installed in the space;
         (d) installing the at least one partition in the space such that the partition(s) define:
                  at least one rack room having a floor and a plurality of rack storage areas
on the floor, each rack storage area being arranged to accomodate a plurality of racks in
which a plurality of rack-mountable electronic components may be housed;
                  one or more cold aisles in the rack room, each cold aisle being adjacent to
a rack storage area,
                  one or more hot aisles in the rack room, each hot aisle being adjacent to a
rack storage area, and;
                  an air supply corridor for transporting, under the control of the one or
more air circulation systems, cooling air, above the floor, to the one or more cold aisles,
the air supply corridor having a height greater than 1.5m above the floor;
         (e) installing in the space one or more controllable air circulation systems.
27.      A kit of parts for constructing a data centre in a space within a building, wherein
the kit includes at least one partition arranged for installation in the space such that the
partition(s) and the space cooperate so as to define:
         at least one rack room having a floor and a plurality of rack storage areas on the
floor, each rack storage area being arranged to accomodate a plurality of racks in which a
plurality of rack-mountable electronic components may be housed;
         one or more cold aisles in the rack room, each-cold aisle being adjacent to a rack
storage area,
         one or more hot aisles in the rack room, each hot aisle being adjacent to a rack
storage area, and;

WO 2010/139921                                                            PCT/GB2010/000759
                                           -  51
        an air supply corridor for transporting, under the control of the one or more air
circulation systems, cooling air, above'the floor, to the one or more cold aisles, the air
supply corridor having a height greater than 1.5m above the floor.

 08 2011 14:48 FAX            02920 666637                    ABEL AND IMRAY                                  @011/020
           New Claims
           28.       A method of cooling electronic equipment in a data centre building comprising the
           steps of:
                     providing a data centre building including
                               at least one rack room having a plurality of racks mounted on the floor, the
                     racks accommodating a multiplicity of rack-mountable items of electronic equipment,
                               one or more cold aisles in the rack room, each cold aisle being adjacent to a
                     rack,
                               one or more hot aisles in the rack room, each hot aisle being adjacent to a rack,
                               one or more access corridors, which together with at least one of (a) the one or
                     more cold aisles and (b) the one or more hot aisles, facilitate personnel access to the
                     items of electronic equipment, and
                               one or more air circulation devices arranged to cause circulation of cooling air
                     to the racks under a controlled cooling airflow regime,
                     cooling the items of electronic equipment by operating the one or more air circulation
           devices to transport air above the floor to the racks, via the racks and then from the racks,
           wherein the air travels under a controlled pressure regime by maintaining a differential
           pressure as between the pressure in a cold aisle and the pressure in a hot aisle, so that air flow
           is encouraged from the cold aisle to the hot aisle,
                               characterised in that
                     the air also flows above the floor via at least one of the access corridors to and/or
           from the racks.
           29.       A method of cooling electronic equipment in a data centre building according to claim
           28, wherein there is provided an access door arrangement including a door and the method
           includes a step of a person entering the hot or cold aisle via the door from one of the access
           corridors.
           30.        A method according to claim 29, wherein the access door arrangement includes a
           controllable air intake and the method comprises controlling said air intake to control the
           amount of air-flow between said hot or cold aisle and said one of the access corridors.
0.06.2011 15:54:34 - 10.06.2011 15:57:27. This page 11 of 20 was completed at 10.06.2011 15:56:03
ted at the EPO on Jun 10, 2011 15:57:27. Page 11 of 20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
