A method of modifying a vehicle suspension and apparatus, which may be in kit form, are disclosed
for replacing leaf springs in particular with an alternative suspension device in a vehicle, for example
an air bag or coil spring system and for improving stability of the vehicle chassis. A welded frame is
affixed between the chassis rails to abut them. The frame has formations for accommodating the
replacement suspension device and shock absorber components. The frame is adaptable to fit
different vehicles and is provided in a do-it-yourself package.

                                                1
Method and apparatus for modification of a motor vehicle suspension
Field of invention
[01]         This invention relates to a motor vehicle suspension apparatus. The invention
relates also to a method and means for replacing a first type of suspension means with a
second. The means includes a retrofit kit for a installing a desired replacement suspension
system.
Background to the invention
[02]         Live axle rear suspension systems are usually found on rear and four wheel
drive vehicles. These systems consist of leaf or coil springs utilized in conjunction with the
live axle, which is the differential axle, wheel bearings, and brakes operating as a unit. The
leaf spring suspension is very well suited to load carrying vehicles, but is not suited to
passenger cars, because its significant unsprung weight and stiff springs produce a
relatively harsher ride.
[03]         In vehicles with independent rear suspension, coil springs are advantageously
used between the control arm and the vehicle body, and the control arms pivot at one
end on a cross-member and are attached at their other end to a spindle.              In a non
independent rear suspension, coil springs may replace leaf springs, and strut rods and
control arms serve to position the rear axle.
[04]         It is generally recognized in motoring circles that suspension systems using
devices other than leaf springs provide a more comfortable or softer ride than leaf spring
suspension. Preferred systems typically employ devices such as coil springs and air bag
units. Yet leaf springs are making a comeback, with many vehicles intended for use under
hard driving conditions again being fitted with leaf springs. These vehicles typically find
use in industrial fleet service.
[05]         Vehicle operators wishing to replace leaf springs with alternative devices are
able to modify their vehicles by making appropriate adaptations. These require removal
of unrequired components and welding in place the necessary attachments for mounting
coil springs or air bags (by way of example).

                                                  2
Objects of the invention
[06]         It is an object of this invention to address the shortcomings of the prior art and,
in doing so, to provide a method and a kit for facilitating the fitting of an alternative
suspension device to a vehicle originally fitted with leaf springs.
[07]         A further object of the invention is to provide a structure for fitting to a vehicle
to enable the mounting of an alternative suspension device.
[08]         The preceding discussion of the background to the invention is intended to
facilitate an understanding of the present invention. However, it should be appreciated
that the discussion is not an acknowledgement or admission that any of the material
referred to was part of the common general knowledge in Australia or elsewhere as at the
priority date of the present application.
[09]         Further, and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the
description and the claims, the words 'comprise', 'comprising', and the like are to be
construed in an inclusive sense - that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not being
limited to" - as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense - that is to say meaning
"including this and nothing else".
Summary of invention
[010]        According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of
modifying a vehicle suspension by replacing leaf springs with an alternative suspension
device in a vehicle, the method comprising steps of:
         "   Providing a vehicle fitted with leaf springs,
         *   Removing from the vehicle the leaf springs,
         *   Fitting to the vehicle a structure for accommodating the installation of at least
             one an alternative suspension device, and
         *   Providing an alternative suspension device and fitting it to the structure in
             operative, suspension-providing orientation.
[011]        In a preferred form of the invention, the step of fitting the structure includes
removably securing the structure to the vehicle.
[012]        Preferably the structure is removably secured by fastening means, more
preferably bolting means.

                                               3
[013]         In a further preferred form of the invention, the step of fitting the structure
includes fastening the structure to a chassis rail of the vehicle.
[014]         In an embodiment, the method includes suspending the structure from the
chassis rail.
[015]         In a preferred embodiment, the method includes locating the structure to fit
between opposed chassis rails of the vehicle.
[016]         In a further preferred form of the invention, the method includes the step of
locating the structure to fit between front and rear chassis mountings of the leaf springs
being replaced.
[017]         Preferably, the structure comprises opposed lip formations that extend below
the respective chassis rails.
[018]         The method includes preferably urging the structure upward between the
chassis rails until the lip formations abut the rails, prevent further upward movement.
The structure may then be secured to the rails.
[019]         The method preferably further includes providing a pair of control arm
mounting brackets and extends to securing the brackets in control arm-connecting
position on the chassis rail. Preferably, the bracket is located to be displaced from the
frame.
[020]         The method in an embodiment additionally includes providing a control arm
and connecting it to the bracket.
[021]         In a preferred embodiment, the alternative suspension device comprises a coil
spring or a compressible fluid container.        Further preferably, the compressible fluid
container comprises an air bag.
[022]         According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a suspension
assembly for installation in a motor vehicle, the assembly comprising a structure adapted
for removable mounting to a chassis rail of the vehicle by fastening means, and locating
means for connecting to the structure, in operative orientation at a desired location
thereon, an alternative suspension device.

                                               4
[023]        The locating means may include engagement means. The engagement means
preferably comprises retainer means. The retainer means, in an embodiment, comprises
clamping means. The clamping means is preferably adapted for receiving and clamping
against the structure a portion of an alternative suspension device.
[024]        In a preferred embodiment, the clamping means comprises a retention plate
and fastening means for fastening the plate to the structure, while applying clamping
force to said portion of the device.
[025]        In a preferred form of the invention, the structure comprises a generally
rectangular frame. The frame comprises a front element and a rear element having
opposed ends to which are connected respective left and right side elements.
[026]        In a further preferred form of the invention, the frame is adapted to fit
between opposed chassis rails of the vehicle. In a preferred embodiment of the invention,
the side elements have laterally extending lip formations for bringing into abutment with
an underside portion of the chassis rails.
[027]        In another further preferred form of the invention, the structure is adapted for
the mounting of an alternative suspension device. To this end the structure is adapted to
comprise a mounting plate against which the device is located in operative orientation.
[028]        In a still further preferred form of the invention, the mounting plate includes
the locating means.
[029]         Preferably, the mounting plate extends from the front to the rear elements.
Preferably the mounting plate is connected to one of said side elements.
[030]        Preferably, the structure comprises paired mounting plates, each being rigidly
connected to and extending from front element to rear element.               In a preferred
embodiment, the mounting plates are respectively connected to the opposing side
elements.
[031]        In a further preferred form of the invention, the mounting elements are
separated from each other by a gap. Preferably, the gap is at least as wide as the wider
(if any) of the mounting elements.
[032]        In a preferred embodiment, the elements and the mounting plates are
connected by welding. Alternatively, the structure may be formed by moulding, or by a

                                                 5
three-dimensional printing technique.         In another embodiment, the connections are
achieved by fastening means known in the art, for example screw-threaded connectors,
rivets and the like.
[033]        In a preferred embodiment, the side elements comprise elongate flat plate
elements. The elements are manufactured from steel or other suitable alloys known in
the motor vehicle component industry. The plate thickness is preferably in the range from
3mm-12mm, more preferably from 5mm-10mm.
[034]        Preferably, the frame comprises track guide means extending therefrom. In
an embodiment, the track guide means comprises a track bar. In an embodiment, the
track guide means is a Panhard rod.
[035]        In a preferred embodiment, the spring mounting plates for the spring coils are
manufactured from steel or other suitable alloys known in the motor vehicle component
industry. The plate thickness is preferably in the range from 5mm-18mm, more preferably
from 6mm-12mm.
[036]        In an alternative form of the invention, the structure further includes mounting
brackets for a pair of shock absorbers. Preferably, the shock absorber mounting brackets
are located forward of the locating means when the structure is operatively mounted to
the vehicle.
[037]        Still further, the structure preferably includes a pair of mounting brackets for
upper control arms associated with the vehicle suspension. In a preferred embodiment,
said upper control arm brackets are secured to the front element of the frame.
[038]        In a further embodiment, the frame comprises guide means extending from
the rear element, and adapted to locate below a rear shock tube of the vehicle. Preferably,
the guide means is adapted for retaining engagement with the shock tube.
[039]        According to a third aspect of the invention, there is provided a kit for
facilitating fitment of an alternative suspension device to replace leaf springs in a vehicle
suspension, the kit comprising a structure for installation in a motor vehicle by removable
mounting to a chassis rail of the vehicle by fastening means, and locating means for
connecting to the structure, in operative orientation, an alternative suspension device.

                                               6
[040]       In an embodiment, the locating means includes engagement                 means
engageable with an alternative suspension device. The engagement means preferably
comprises retainer means.
[041]       The retainer means may in an embodiment comprise clamping means. The
clamping means is preferably adapted for receiving and clamping against the structure a
portion of an alternative suspension device.
[042]       In a preferred embodiment, the clamping means comprises a retention plate
and fastening means for fastening the plate to the structure, while applying clamping
force to said portion of the alternative suspension device.
[043]       In a further preferred form of the invention, the structure comprises a
mounting plate against which the alternative suspension device is located in operative
orientation.
[044]       In a still further preferred form of the invention, the mounting plate includes
the locating means.
[045]       In a preferred embodiment, the mounting plates are manufactured from steel
or other suitable alloys known in the motor vehicle component industry.           The plate
thickness is preferably in the range from 5mm-18mm, more preferably from 6mm-12mm.
[046]       In a further preferred form of the invention, the structure further includes
mounting brackets for a pair of shock absorbers. Preferably, the shock absorber mounting
brackets are located fore of the locating means.
[047]       Still further, according to this aspect, the kit includes a mounting bracket for
connection to a control arm. Preferably, the control arm is a lower control arm.
[048]       In a preferred form of the invention, the control arm mounting bracket is
adapted to be secured to a chassis rail of the vehicle.
[049]       In an embodiment, said mounting bracket is generally U-shaped, having
opposed plates and a connecting bridge element. In use, the bridge element straddles
the chassis rail with the plates extending to contain, in a gap defined between them, a
portion of the chassis rail. The kit may include suitable fastening means for fastening the
control arm mounting bracket to the rail.        Preferably the fastening means comprises
screw-threaded bolt means and complemental retainer means.

                                                7
[050]        The kit extends optionally to including one or more of upper and lower control
arm components suited for a vehicle to in which the structure is to be installed.
[051]        In a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a kit for facilitating
fitment of an alternative suspension device to replace a leaf spring in a vehicle suspension,
the kit comprising two or more frame components and connecting means rendering the
frame components connectable to each other to form a framelike structure for
installation in a motor vehicle by removable mounting to a chassis rail of the vehicle by
fastening means, and locating means for connecting to the structure, in operative
orientation, an alternative suspension device.
[052]        In an embodiment, the locating means includes engagement means
engageable with the alternative suspension device. The engagement means preferably
comprises retainer means.
[053]        The retainer means may in an embodiment comprise clamping means. The
clamping means is preferably adapted for receiving and clamping against the structure a
portion of an alternative suspension device.
[054]        In a further preferred form of the invention, the frame components when
connected, define a structure comprising a mounting plate against which the alternative
suspension device is located in operative orientation.
[055]        Still further, according to this aspect, the kit includes a mounting bracket for
connection to a control arm. Preferably, the control arm is a lower control arm.
[056]        The kit extends optionally to including one or more of upper and lower control
arm components suited for a vehicle to in which the structure isto be installed.
Brief description of drawings
[057]        In order that the invention may be readily understood, and put into practical
effect, reference will now be made to the accompanying figures. Thus:
Figure 1 isa schematic bottom view of a preferred embodiment of the assembly of the invention
           without an alternative suspension device installed.
Figure 2 is a schematic rear elevation of the assembly of Figure 1 with a coiled spring
           suspension device installed.

                                                8
Figure 3 is a schematic side view of the assembly of Figure 1.
Figure 4 shows, in perspective view, an embodiment of the spring housing structure of this
          invention being installed.
Detailed description of an embodiment of the invention
[058]        Referring to Figures 1, 2 and 3, in schematic elevation views of this invention,
the alternative suspension device support structure is generally denoted by the number
10. The support structure is in the general form of a frame 12, to which are secured
support plates 14, 14' adjacent to opposing side panels 16, 16'. To the support plates are
attached the alternative suspension device, in this embodiment being suspension springs,
to be elaborated on below.
[059]        The frame is sized to fit between the chassis rails of the vehicle to be
retrofitted. The frames are able to be produced to fit different makes and models to meet
demand. The frames are conveniently sized also to be installed between the chassis rails
in a position between the mounting brackets, to which the leaf springs being replaced
were attached at their front and rear ends.
[060]        Each panel 16 has a side lip 18, which extends generally perpendicularly to the
plane of the panel. As is seen in Figure 2, the lip 18, 18' abuts the lower surface of the
chassis rail 22, 22'. This formation provides two perpendicular and adjacent surfaces that,
when the support frame has been installed, abut the opposing under- and inside- surfaces
of the chassis rail, providing improved stability of the installation against movement
relative to the chassis rails.
[061]        The side panels of frame 12 are disposed generally parallel to each other and
are defined by angled plates as shown in Figure 3 with an angle 20, 20' to complement
the longitudinal profile of the chassis rails (partially shown as 22, 22') of the vehicle
(remainder not shown) to which the sprung suspension of this example is to be retrofitted.
[062]        At each of their front and rear ends, the support plates are welded to
transverse frame elements 24 - disposed at the forward end of the frame - and 26 (at the
rearward end). The frame elements 24, 26 are themselves welded to the side panels 16,
16' to produce a sturdy framework. In an exemplary embodiment in which the frame is
provided in a dissembled kit form, the frame elements and side panels are provided with
suitable tabs and flanges for bolting together.

                                              9
[063]       The frame 12 is bolted to the chassis rails of the receiving vehicle, using bolt
receiving apertures 28 in its side panels 16, as shown in Figure 3.
[064]       Support plate 14, 14' has a formation for facilitating attachment of one end of
the coiled suspension spring 30, 30' in Figure 2. As shown in Figure 1 at 44, 44' where the
coil springs are shown removed from position, the formation comprises a set of apertures
in plate 14, 14'. The centrally located aperture receives an end portion of the spring 30,
30' and a retainer plate 46, 46' is placed over the first loop of the coil and bolted in place
against plate 14, 14', using bolts or a U-bolt through the outer two apertures, to secure
the spring in operative position. The distal end of the spring (not shown) is connected in
conventional manner to the rear axle (not shown). Appropriate modifications may of
course be made to the formation for receiving, for example, an air bag suspension unit,
within the scope of the present invention. In a further embodiment, modifications to the
formation are provided for accommodating both a coiled spring and an air bag unit.
[065]       The frame also has attached to it a pair of mounting brackets 32, 32' to which
the upper control arms (not shown) of the vehicle are connected by bolts (not shown)
which pass through apertures centred on the axial broken line 34.
[066]       In this embodiment, attached to the low side of the frame at the rear
transverse bar 26 is a mounting bracket 36 to which the Panhard rod (or track bar), which
is connected to the differential (not shown), is pivotally connected through access port
38, to be supported by suitable bolts passing through the bolt holes marked by the axial
line 40.
[067]       A second pair of mounting brackets 42, 42' are provided for receiving and
connecting the shock absorbers of the rear wheels (not shown). Depending on the type
of shock absorbers used in different vehicle models, other mounting means may be
provided within the scope of this invention, for example an inclined receiving socket for a
pin type shock absorber.
[068]       It will be appreciated that the relative positions of the sets of mounting
brackets and bolt securing apertures described above may be varied for different models
and their particular suspension layouts, for example those for the Mitsubishi Pajero will
differ from those for the Toyota Prado series and from those for the Nissan Navara
platform, while remaining within the scope of the invention.

                                              10
[069]        In the embodiment of Figure 1, the support frame 12 is located between
forward 48, 48' and rear 50, 50' pairs of mountings for the leaf springs that the invention
would replace. Preferably the rear transverse bar element 26 is located to abut the rear
shock tube, 52, with extending, welded retainers 54 helping to hold these two
components closely together for added stability.
[070]        In Figure 4 the assembly 10 is shown from below and to the rear, ready to be
installed in operative position, having been correctly orientated to be raised into position
between the chassis rails 60, 60' of the receiving vehicle (shown by the broken lines). At
this point in the process of leaf spring replacement, the leaf springs have already been
removed from their mounting brackets, the rear pair of which are shown (62, 62'). These
brackets and the chassis rails are not part of the invention, and are shown conceptually
for convenience and context.
[071]        In this embodiment, the frame kit further comprises a separate pair of
mounting brackets for attachment to the chassis rails aft of the frame itself. Only one of
the pair is shown, marked 70. These brackets provide means for connecting the lower
control arms of the vehicle to the rail and are used in instances when the installation of
the frame necessitates relocation of the connecting points for the lower control arms.
[072]        Each bracket comprises opposed supporting plates 72, 72' spaced apart by a
bridging joiner piece 74. The arrangement of the plates in spaced relationship defines a
gap 76 into which chassis rail is located when the bracket is placed to straddle the rail, by
moving it in the direction generally indicated by arrow 80. The bracket is secured to the
chassis rail by means of bolts being passed through the holes provided 78 and fastened
by suitable nuts.
[073]        For vehicles in which the rear leaf sprung suspension does not include control
arms for limiting axle movement, the kit includes a pair of lower control arms. These are
adapted and selected for the particular vehicle to be retrofitted. In other embodiments,
the control arms may be purchased as optional extras. The control arms are connected
to their respective bracket 70 at connection socket 82 using a rubber bushing. The
opposite end of the control arm is connected to the axle or the wheel upright, as is
conventional.
[074]        In vehicles having lower control arms, the kit for these vehicle models would
omit the control arms. Control arm mounts separate from the spring support frame are

                                                11
found to be needed for wagon-type four-wheel drive vehicles to accommodate shorter
control arms and differences in the lengths of spring leaf assemblies between models.
[075]        It is usual in leaf spring suspensions for the front part of the leaf spring to act
as a control arm, holding the axle in line to control wheelbase and maintain proper
tracking. With the leaf spring removed and replaced and the control arm functionality
now lacking, a new control arm assembly will need to be installed. In order to install a
control arm mounting bracket successfully, its position on the chassis rail needs to be
determined, taking into account the control arm length.
[076]        When the supporting assembly structure 12 has been located in position
between the chassis rails, it is secured in position using threaded bolts and nuts or other
suitable fastening means. With the chassis suitably raised, the coil springs in this example
are connected to the support plates by inserting the upper end into the middle aperture
44, 44' in figure 1 and clamping the proximate length of coil adjacent to the upper end to
the plate, using retainer plate 46, 46', and bolting the latter in place, as referred to
previously. The lower end of the spring is secured to the axle and the vehicle is lowered
to allow its weight to be borne on the springs. It will be appreciated that the support
assembly is urged upward so that the upper surfaces of the side lips are urged against the
bottom surfaces of the respective chassis rails.
[077]        In a further embodiment of the invention, the Panhard mounting bracket is
dispensed with, in favour of triangulated arms, or functional equivalents.
[078]        According to an alternative embodiment, the retainer plates 46, 46' for
securing the coils are replaced with a boss with which to locate the top end of the coil
spring. Suitable retainers are provided in the case where air bags are used instead of
coiled springs. These are included in embodiments of the kit intended for fitment of air
bags units alone or in combination with coil springs.
[079]        The shock absorber mounts may also be adapted to fit alternative forms of
shock absorber, for example pin-style shocks.
[080]        A major advantage of this invention is that it may be exercised by the Do-It
Yourself enthusiast with minimal tools and workshop facilities. There is no need to send
the vehicle to an engineering workshop for the conversion to be carried out. However,
for safety reasons, it is desirable that the appropriate equipment be available and used.

                                            12
[081]       These embodiments merely illustrate particular examples of the method, kit
and product of the invention providing a coil spring support assembly for retrofitting to a
leaf-sprung vehicle. With the insight gained from this disclosure, the person skilled in the
art is well placed to discern further embodiments by means of which to put the claimed
invention into practice.

                                                13
Claims
  1.    A method of improving stability of a vehicle chassis having opposing side chassis rails
          the method comprising steps of:
        *       Providing a vehicle fitted with leaf springs;
        *       Removing from the vehicle the leaf springs, exposing adjacent portions of the
                respective chassis rails;
        e       securing between the chassis rails in chassis-stabilizing orientation whereby
                relative movement of the rails is inhibited, a generally rectangular welded
                frame adapted for operative connection to an alternative suspension unit for
                replacing the leaf springs; and
        *       Providing an alternative suspension unit and operatively connecting it to the
                frame.
  2.    The method of claim 1 wherein the step of fitting the frame includes removably
        securing the frame to the rails.
  3.    The method according to any one of the preceding claims, including the step of
        connecting the frame to fit between front and rear mountings used for the removed
        leaf springs.
 4.     The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the frame
        comprises opposed lip formations that extend from the frame to be seated below and
        against the respective chassis rails when operatively connected, whereby to stabilise
        the chassis rails against relative movement.
  5.    The method according to claim 3 or claim 4, including providing a pair of control arm
        mounting brackets and securing the brackets in control arm-connecting position on
        the chassis rail.
     6. A vehicle suspension-stabilizing frame for operative installation in a motor vehicle, the
        frame being of generally rectangular welded construction and adapted for removable
        installation between opposing chassis rails of the vehicle, and for receiving, in
        operative connection thereto, a suspension device, wherein the suspension device is
        a replacement for a previously connected suspension device, the frame comprising

                                            14
    stabilizing means that, when the frame has been installed, operably abut opposite
    inside- surfaces of the respective chassis rails, stabilizing the chassis rails against
    relative movement.
7. The suspension-stabilizing frame of claim 6, having opposite side elements with
    laterally extending lip formations configured for respectively operatively abutting an
    underside portion of the chassis rails.
8. The suspension-stabilizing frame of claim 6 or claim 7, wherein the frame comprises a
    mounting plate against which an alternative suspension device is operatively
    connectable.
9. A kit for stabilizing a vehicle suspension when leaf springs are replaced by coiled
    springs, the kit comprising a welded generally rectangular frame adapted for a coiled
    spring suspension device to be operatively connected thereto and for removable
    installation between opposing portions of the vehicle chassis rails, the frame
    comprising stabilizing means that, when the frame has been installed, operably abut
    opposite inside surfaces of the respective chassis rails, stabilizing the chassis rails
    against relative movement.
10. The kit of claim 9, further comprising a mounting plate connectable to the frame and
    to which the coiled spring suspension device is mountable in operative orientation.
11. The kit of claim 10, wherein the mounting plate includes locating means for operably
    locating the coiled spring suspension device.
12. The kit of claim 11, further including a mounting bracket adapted to be secured to a
    chassis rail of the vehicle and for connection to a control arm.
13. The kit of claim 12 further including a control arm.
14. The kit according to any one of claims 9 to 13 including a coiled spring suspension
    device.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           SHEET 1 OF 2

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 4
                                      SHEET 2 OF 2

