ABSTRACT
Methods and compositions for the production of food compositions, oils, fuels,
oleochemicals, and other compounds in recombinant microorganisms are provided,
including oil-bearing microorganisms and methods of low cost cultivation of such
microorganisms. Microalgal cells containing exogenous genes encoding, for example, a
lipase, a sucrose transporter, a sucrose invertase, a fructokinase, a polysaccharide
degrading enzyme, a keto acyl-ACP synthase enzyme, a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase, a
fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductase, a fatty acyl-CoA reductase, a fatty aldehyde reductase,
a fatty aldehyde decarbonylase, and/or an acyl carrier protein are useful in manufacturing
food compositions, and transportation fuels such as renewable diesel, biodiesel, and
renewable jet fuel, as well as oleochemicals such as functional fluids, surfactants, soaps
and lubricants.

              FOOD COMPOSITIONS COMPRISING TAILORED OILS
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   [0001]     This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119(e) of US Provisional Patent
00
0  Application No. 61/349,774, filed May 28, 2010, US Provisional Patent Application No.
   61/374,992, filed August 18, 2010, US Provisional Patent Application No. 61/414,393, filed
~  November 16, 2010, and US Provisional Patent Application No. 61/428,192, filed December
~
N  29, 2010. Each of these applications is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all
~
0  purposes.
N
00                          REFERENCE TO A SEQUENCE LISTING
~
0  [0002]     This application includes a sequence listing as shown in pages 1-195, appended
N
   hereto.
                                    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   [0003]     The present invention relates to the production of food compositions, oils, fuels, and
   oleochemicals made from microorganisms. In particular, the disclosure relates to oil-bearing
   microalgae, methods of cultivating them for the production of biomass and useful
   compounds, including lipids, fatty acid esters, fatty acids, aldehydes, alcohols, and alkanes,
   and methods and reagents for genetically altering them to improve production efficiency and
   alter the type and composition of the oils produced by them.
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [0004]     As the human population continues to increase, there's a growing need for
   additional food sources, particularly food sources that are inexpensive to produce but
   nutritious. Moreover, the current reliance on meat as the staple of many diets, at least in the
   most developed countries, contributes significantly to the release of greenhouse gases, and
   there's a need for new foodstuffs that are equally tasty and nutritious yet less harmful to the
   environment to produce. There remains a need for methods to produce foodstuffs from
   microorganism, including algae, cheaply and efficiently, at large scale, particularly foodstuffs
   that are tasty and nutritious. The present invention meets these and other needs
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [0005]     The present invention provides oleaginous microbial cells, preferably microalgal
   cells, having distinct lipid profiles, and includes recombinant cells expressing exogenous
   genes encoding proteins such as fatty acyl-ACP thioesterases. The present invention also
   provides methods of making lipids and oil-based products, including fuels such as biodiesel,
   renewable diesel and jet fuel, from such cells.
                                                     1

[0006]      In a first aspect, the present invention provides oleaginous microbial cells,
preferably microalgal cells, having a lipid profile that is at least 1% or at least 5%, preferably
at least 3%, C8:0. In some cases, the lipid profile is at least 10% or at least 15%, preferably
at least 12%, C8:0. In some embodiments, the cell is a recombinant cell. In some cases, the
recombinant cell comprises an exogenous gene encoding an acyl-ACP thioesterase protein
that has hydrolysis activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrates of chain length C8. In some
embodiments, the exogenous gene encodes a Cuphea palustris acyl-ACP thioesterase. In
some cases, the cell is a Prototheca cell. In some cases, the cell is of a microalgal genus or
species selected from microalgae identified in Table 1.
[0007]      In a second aspect, the present invention provides oleaginous microbial cells,
preferably microalgal cells, having a lipid profile that is at least 4% ClO:O. In some cases,
the lipid profile is at least 20%, at least 25% or at least 30%, preferably at least 24%, ClO:O.
In some cases, the ratio of ClO:O to C12:0 is at least 6:1. In some embodiments, the cell is a
recombinant cell. In some cases, the recombinant cell comprises an exogenous gene
encoding an acyl-ACP thioesterase protein that has hydrolysis activity towards fatty acyl-
ACP substrates of chain length ClO. In some embodiments, the exogenous gene encodes an
acyl-ACP thioesterase protein from a species selected from the group consisting of Cuphea
hookeriana and Ulmus americana. In some cases, the cell is a Prototheca cell. In some
embodiments, the cell is of a microalgal genus or species selected from microalgae identified
in Table 1.
[0008]      In a third aspect, the present invention provides oleaginous microbial cells,
preferably microalgal cells, having a lipid profile that is at least 10% or at least 15%,
prefereably at least 13%, C12:0. In some cases, the lipid profile is at least 30%, at least 35%
or at least 40%, preferably at least 34%, C12:0. In some cases, the ratio of C12 to C14 is at
least 5: 1. In some cases, the cell is a recombinant cell. In some embodiments, the
recombinant cell comprises an exogenous gene encoding an acyl-ACP thioesterase protein
that has hydrolysis activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrates of chain length C12. In some
cases, the recombinant cell comprises at least two exogenous genes encoding acyl-ACP
thioesterase proteins from Umbellularia californica and Cinnamomum camphora that have
hydrolysis activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrates of chain length C12. In some
embodiments, the cell is a Prototheca cell.
[0009]      In a fourth aspect, the present invention provides oleaginous microbial cells,
preferably microalgal cells, having a lipid profile that is at least 5% or at least 15%,
preferably at least 10%, C14:0. In some cases, the lipid profile is at least 40%, at least 45%,
                                                    2

or at least 50%, preferably at least 43%, Cl4:0. In some cases, the ratio of C14:0 to C12:0 is
at least 7: 1. In some cases, the cell is a recombinant cell. In some embodiments, the
recombinant cell comprises an exogenous gene encoding an acyl-ACP thioesterase protein
that has hydrolysis activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrates of chain length C14. In some
embodiments, the acyl-ACP thioesterase protein is from a species selected from the group
consisting of Cinnamomum camphora and Ulmus americana. In some cases, the cell is a
Prototheca cell. In some embodiments, the cell is of a microalgal genus or species selected
from microalgae identified in Table 1.
[0010]     In a fifth aspect, the present invention provides oleaginous microbial cells,
preferably microalgal cells, having a lipid profile that is at least 10% or at least 20%,
preferably at least 15%, C16:0. In some cases, the lipid profile is at least 30%, at least 35%
or at least 40%, preferably at least 37%, C16:0. In some cases, the cell is a recombinant cell.
In some embodiments, the recombinant cell comprises an exogenous gene encoding an acyl-
ACP thioesterase protein that has hydrolysis activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrates of
chain length C16. In some embodiments, the recombinant cell comprises at least two
exogenous genes encoding acyl-ACP thioesterase proteins from Umbellularia californica and
Cinnamomum camphora that have hydrolysis activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrates of
chain length C16. In some cases, the cell is a Prototheca cell.
[0011]     In a sixth aspect, the present invention provides oleaginous microbial cells,
preferably microalgal cells, having a lipid profile that is at least 55% or at least 65%,
preferably at least 60%, saturated fatty acids. In some cases the cells,have a lipid profile that
is at least 80%, at least 85%, or at least 90%, preferably at least 86%, saturated fatty acids. In
some cases, the cell is a recombinant cell. In some embodiments, the recombinant cell
comprises an exogenous gene encoding an acyl-ACP thioesterase protein that has hydrolysis
activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrates of chain lengths C10-C16. In some embodiments,
the cell comprises an exogenous gene encoding a ketoacyl synthase protein. In some cases,
the cell is a Prototheca cell.
[0012]     In a seventh aspect, the present invention provides oleaginous microbial cells,
preferably microalgal cells, comprising a mutated endogenous desaturase gene, wherein the
mutation renders the gene or desaturase inactive. In some cases, the cell has a lipid profile
that is at least 40% or at least 50%, preferably at least 45%, saturated fatty acids. In some
cases, the cell has a lipid profile that is at least 15%, at least 20% or at least 25%, preferably
at least 19%, C18:0. In some embodiments, the cell comprises a mutated endogenous
desaturase gene that results in at least a 2-fold increase in C18:0 fatty acid, as compared to a
                                                    3

wild-type cell. In some cases, the microalgal cell has a lipid profile that is no more than 1%
or no more than 5%, preferably no more than 2%, C18:2. In some embodiments, the
microalgal cell has a lipid profile that is no more than 5% or no more than 10%, preferably no
more than 7%, 18:1.
[0013]    In some embodiments of the recombinant cells discussed herein, the cell comprises
a mutated endogenous desaturase gene, wherein the mutation renders the gene or desaturase
inactive.
[0014]    In a eighth aspect, the present invention provides a method of making lipid. In one
embodiment, the method comprises (a) cultivating a cell as discussed above until the cell is at
least 15% or at least 25%, preferably at least 20%, lipid by dry weight, and (b) separating the
lipid from water-soluble biomass components.
[0015]    In a ninth aspect, the present invention provides another method of making lipid. In
one embodiment, the method comprises (a) cultivating an oleaginous microbial, preferably a
microalgae cell, containing exogenous genes encoding two distinct acyl-ACP thioesterases,
wherein the lipid profile of the cell is distinct from (i) the profile of the cell without the
exogenous genes and (ii) the profile of the cell with only one of the exogenous genes, and (b)
separating the lipid from water-soluble biomass components. In some cases, at least one of
the exogenous genes encodes a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase selected from the group
consisting of the thioesterases identified in Table 4.
[0016]    In a tenth aspect, the present invention provides a method of making an oil-based
product. In one embodiment, the method comprises (a) cultivating a cell as discussed above
until the cell is at least 5% or at least 15%, preferably at least 10%, lipid by dry weight, (b)
separating the lipid from water-soluble biomass components, and (c) subjecting the lipid to at
least one chemical reaction selected from the group consisting of: saponification; metathesis;
acid hydrolysis; alkaline hydrolysis; enzymatic hydrolysis; catalytic hydrolysis; hot-
compressed water hydrolysis; a catalytic hydrolysis reaction wherein the lipid is split into
glycerol and fatty acids; an amination reaction to produce fatty nitrogen compounds; an
ozonolysis reaction to produce mono- and dibasic-acids; a triglyceride splitting reaction
selected from the group consisting of enzymatic splitting and pressure splitting; a
condensation reaction that follows a hydrolysis reaction; a hydroprocessing reaction; a
hydroprocessing reaction and a deoxygenation reaction or a condensation reaction prior to or
simultaneous with the hydroprocessing reaction; a gas removal reaction; a deoxygenation
reaction selected from the group consisting of a hydrogenolysis reaction, hydrogenation, a
consecutive hydrogenation-hydrogenolysis reaction, a consecutive hydrogenolysis-
                                                   4

hydrogenation reaction, and a combined hydrogenation-hydrogenolysis reaction; a
condensation reaction following a deoxygenation reaction; an esterification reaction; an
interestification reaction; a transesterification reaction; a hydroxylation reaction; and a
condensation reaction following a hydroxylation reaction, whereby an oil-based product is
produced.
[0017]     In some cases, the oil-based product is selected from soap or a fuel product. In
some embodiments, the oil-based product is a fuel product selected from the group consisting
biodiesel, renewable diesel, and jet fuel. In some cases, the fuel product is biodiesel with one
or more of the following attributes: (i) 0.01- 0.5 mcg/g, 0.025-0.3 mcg/g, preferably 0.05-
0.244 mcg/g, total carotenoids; (ii) less than 0.01 mcg/g, less than 0.005 mcg/g, preferably
less than 0.003 mcg/g, lycopene; (iii) less than 0.01 mcg/g, less than 0.005 mcg/g, preferably
less than 0.003 mcg/g, beta carotene; (iv) 0.01-0.5 mcg/g, 0.025-0.3 mcg/g, preferably 0.045-
0.268 mcg/g, chlorophyll A; (v) 1-500 mcg/g, 35-175 mcg/g, preferably 38.3-164 mcg/g,
gamma tocopherol; (vi) less than 1%, less than 0.5%, preferably less than 0.25%,
brassicasterol, campesterol, stignasterol, or beta-sitosterol; (vii) 100-500 mcg/g, 225-350
mcg/g, preferably 249.6-325.3 mcg/g, total tocotrienols; (viii) 0.001-0.1mcg/g,0.0025-0.05
mcg/g, preferably 0.003-0.039 mcg/g, lutein; or (ix) 10-500 mcg/g, 50-300 mcg/g, preferably
60.8-261.7 mcg/g, tocopherols. In some cases, the fuel product is renewable diesel that has a
T10-T90 of at least 20°C, 40°C or 60°C. In some cases, the fuel product is jet fuel that meets
HRJ-5 and/or ASTM specification D1655.
[0018]     In an eleventh aspect, the present invention provides a triglyceride oil comprising
(a) a lipid profile of at least 3% C8:0, at least 4% ClO:O, at least 13% C12:0, at least 10%
C 14:0, and/or at least 60% saturated fatty acids, and (b) one or more of the following
attributes: (i) 0.01-0.5 mcg/g, 0.025-0.3 mcg/g, preferably 0.05-0.244 mcg/g, total
carotenoids; (ii) less than 0.01 mcg/g, less than 0.005 mcg/g, preferably less than 0.003
mcg/g, lycopene; (iii) less than 0.01 mcg/g, less than 0.005 mcg/g, prefereably less than 0.003
mcg/g, beta carotene; (iv) 0.01-0.5 mcg/g, 0.025-0.3 mcg/g, preferably 0.045-0.268 mcg/g,
chlorophyll A; (v) 1-300 mcg/g, 35-175 mcg/g, preferably 38.3-164 mcg/g, gamma
tocopherol; (vi) less than 1%, less than 0.5%, preferably less than 0.25%, brassicasterol,
campesterol, stignasterol, or beta-sitosterol; (vii) 100-500 mcg/g, 225-350 mcg/g, preferably
249.6-325.3 mcg/g, total tocotrienols; (viii) 0.001-0.1mcg/g,0.0025-0.05 mcg/g, preferably
0.003-0.039 mcg/g, lutein; or (ix) 10-500 mcg/g, 50-300 mcg/g, preferably 60.8-261.7 mcg/g,
tocopherols.
                                                   5

[0019]     In a twelvth aspect, the present invention provides an isolated oil from microalgae
that has a C8: C 10 fatty acid ratio of at least 5: 1. In a related aspect, the present invention
provides an isolated oil from microalgae with at least 50% to 75%, preferably at least 60%,
saturated fatty acids. In another related aspect, the present invention provides an isolated oil
from microalgae that has a C16:14 fatty acid ratio of about 2:1. In still another related aspect,
the present invention provides an isolated oil from microalgae that has a C12:C14 fatty acid
ratio of at least 5: 1. In some embodiments, the microalgae contains at least one exogenous
gene. In some cases, the microalgae is of the genus Prototheca.
[0020]     In a thirteenth aspect, the present invention provides a triglyceride oil comprising
(a) a lipid profile of less than 5% or less than 2%, preferably less than 1%, <C12; between
1%-10%, preferably 2%-7%, C14:0; between 20%-35%, preferably 23%-30%, C16:0;
between 5%-20%, preferably 7%-15%, C18:0; between 35-60%, preferably 40-55%, C18:1;
and between 1%-20%, preferably 2-15%, C18:2 fatty acids; and (b) one or more of the
following attributes: (i) 0.01-0.5 mcg/g, 0.025-0.3 mcg/g, preferably 0.05-0.244 mcg/g, total
carotenoids; (ii) less than 0.01 mcg/g, less than 0.005 mcg/g, preferably less than 0.003
mcg/g, lycopene; (iii) less than 0.01 mcg/g, less than 0.005 mcg/g, preferably less than 0.003
mcg/g, beta carotene; (iv) 0.01-0.5 mcg/g, 0.025-0.3 mcg/g, preferably 0.045-0.268 mcg/g,
chlorophyll A; (v) 1-300 mcg/g, 35-175 mcg/g, preferably 38.3-164 mcg/g, gamma
tocopherol; (vi) less than 1%, less than 0.5%, preferably less than 0.25%, brassicasterol,
campesterol, stignasterol, or beta-sitosterol; (vii) 100-500 mcg/g, 225-350 mcg/g, preferably
249.6-325.3 mcg/g, total tocotrienols; (viii) 0.001-0.1mcg/g,0.0025-0.05 mcg/g, preferably
0.003-0.039 mcg/g, lutein; or (ix) 10-500 mcg/g, 50-300, preferably 60.8-261.7 mcg/g,
tocopherols.
[0021]     In some cases, the triglyceride oil is isolated from a microbe comprising one or
more exogenous gene. In some embodiments, the one or more exogenous gene encodes a
fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase. In some cases, the fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase has hydrolysis
activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrates of chain length C14. In some embodiments, the
microbe further comprises a mutated endogenous desaturase gene, wherein the mutation
renders the gene or desaturase inactive.
[0022]     In a fourteenth aspect, the present invention provides a method of producing a
triglyceride oil comprising a lipid profile of less than 5%, or less than 2%, preferably less
than 1%, <C12; between 1%-10%, preferably 2%-7%, C14:0; between 20%-35%, preferably
23%-30%, C16:0; between 5%-20%, preferably 7%-15%, C18:0; between 35%-60%,
preferably 40-55%, C18:1; and between 1%-20%, preferably 2-15%, C18:2 fatty acids,
                                                    6

wherein the triglyceride oil is isolated from a microbe comprising one or more exogenous
gene. In some cases, the triglyceride oil comprises a lipid profile of 1%-10%, preferably 3-
5%, C14:0; 20%-30%, preferably 25-27%, C16:0; 5%-20%, preferably 10-15%, C18:0; and
35%-50%, preferably 40-45%, C18:1. In some embodiments, the one or more exogenous
gene encodes a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase. In some cases, the fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase
has hydrolysis activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrates of chain length C14. In some cases,
the microbe further comprises a mutated endogenous desaturase gene, wherein the mutation
renders the gene or desaturase inactive. In some cases, the one or more exogenous gene is a
sucrose invertase. In some embodiments, the mutated endogenous desaturase gene is a
stearoyl-acyl carrier protein desaturase (SAD) (e.g., SEQ ID NOs: 199-200). In some
embodiments, the mutated endogenous desaturase gene is a fatty acid desaturase (FAD).
[0023]    In a fifteenth aspect, the present invention provides a oleaginous microbial cell,
preferably a microalgal cell, comprising a triglyceride oil, wherein the fatty acid profile of the
triglyceride oil is selected from the group consisting of at least about 1% C8:0, at least about
1% ClO:O, at least about 1% C12:0, at least about 2% C14:0, at least about 30% C16:0, at
least about 5% C18:0, at least about 60% C18:1, less than about 7% C18:2, and at least about
35% saturated fatty acids. In some cases, the oleaginous microbial cell comprises an
exogenous gene, and optionally, an endogenous desaturase of the oleaginous microbial cell
has been inactivated or mutated to have less enzymatic activity.
[0024]    In some cases, the fatty acid profile of the triglyceride oil is similar to the fatty acid
profile of a naturally occurring oil. In some cases, the naturally occurring oil is selected from
the group consisting of cocoa butter, coconut oil, palm oil, palm kernel oil, shea butter, beef
tallow and lard. In some cases, the fatty acid profile of the triglyceride oil comprises a profile
selected from the group consisting of, the total combined amounts of C8:0 and ClO:O is at
least about 10%, the total combined amount of ClO:O, C12:0, and C14:0 is at least about
50%, the total combined amount of C16:0, C18:0 and C18:1 is at least about 60%, the total
combined amount of C18:0, C18: 1 and C18:2 is at least about 60%, the total combined
amount of C14:0, C16:0, C18:0 and C18:1 is at least about 60%, and the total combined
amount of C18:1 and C18:2 is less than about 30%. In some cases, the fatty acid profile of
the triglyceride oil comprises a ratio of fatty acids selected from the group consisting of C8:0
to ClO:O ratio of at least about 5 to 1, ClO:O to C12:0 ratio of at least about 6 to 1, C12:0 to
C14:0 ratio of at least about 5 to 1, C14:0 to C12:0 ratio of at least about 7:1, and C14:0 to
C16:0 ratio of at least about 1 to 2.
                                                  7

[0025]    In some cases, the endogenous desaturase is selected from the group consisting of
stearoyl ACP desaturase and delta 12 fatty acid desaturase. In some cases, the exogenous
gene is selected from the group consisting of a gene encoding an acyl-ACP thioesterase. In
some cases, the exogenous gene encodes an acyl-ACP thioesterase selected from the group
consisting of those identified in Table 4. In some cases, the oleaginous microbial cell further
comprises a gene encoding a sucrose invertase.
[0026]    In various embodiments, the oleaginous microbial cell is a cell of a microalgal
genus or species selected from Achnanthes orientalis, Agmenellum, Amphiprora hyaline,
Amphora coffeiformis, Amphora coffeiformis linea, Amphora coffeiformis punctata, Amphora
coffeiformis taylori, Amphora coffeiformis tenuis, Amphora delicatissima, Amphora
delicatissima capitata, Amphora sp., Anabaena, Ankistrodesmus, Ankistrodesmus falcatus,
Boekelovia hooglandii, Borodinella sp., Botryococcus braunii, Botryococcus sudeticus,
Carteria, Chaetoceros gracilis, Chaetoceros muelleri, Chaetoceros muelleri subsalsum,
Chaetoceros sp., Chiarella anitrata, Chiarella Antarctica, Chiarella aureoviridis, Chiarella
candida, Chiarella capsulate, Chiarella desiccate, Chiarella ellipsoidea, Chiarella
emersonii, Chlorellafusca, Chlorellafusca var. vacuolata, Chiarella glucotropha, Chiarella
infusionum, Chiarella infusionum var. actophila, Chiarella infusionum var. auxenophila,
Chiarella kessleri, Chiarella lobophora (strain SAG 37. 88 ), Chiarella luteoviridis, Chiarella
luteoviridis var. aureoviridis, Chiarella luteoviridis var. lutescens, Chiarella miniata,
Chiarella minutissima, Chiarella mutabilis, Chiarella nocturna, Chiarella parva, Chiarella
photophila, Chiarella pringsheimii, Chiarella protothecoides (including any of UTEX strains
1806, 411, 264, 256, 255, 250, 249, 31, 29, 25, and CCAP strains 211117 and 211/8d),
Chiarella protothecoides var. acidicola, Chiarella regularis, Chiarella regularis var.
minima, Chiarella regularis var. umbricata, Chiarella reisiglii, Chiarella saccharophila,
Chiarella saccharophila var. ellipsoidea, Chiarella salina, Chiarella simplex, Chiarella
sorokiniana, Chiarella sp., Chiarella sphaerica, Chiarella stigmatophora, Chiarella
vanniellii, Chiarella vulgaris, Chiarella vulgaris, Chiarella vulgaris f tertia, Chiarella
vulgaris var. autotrophica, Chiarella vulgaris var. viridis, Chiarella vulgaris var. vulgaris,
Chiarella vulgaris var. vulgaris f tertia, Chiarella vulgaris var. vulgaris f viridis, Chiarella
xanthella, Chiarella zofingiensis, Chiarella trebouxioides, Chiarella vulgaris, Chlorococcum
infusionum, Chlorococcum sp., Chlorogonium, Chroomonas sp., Chrysosphaera sp.,
Cricosphaera sp., Cryptomonas sp., Cyclotella cryptica, Cyclotella meneghiniana, Cyclotella
sp., Dunaliella sp., Dunaliella bardawil, Dunaliella bioculata, Dunaliella granulate,
Dunaliella maritime, Dunaliella minuta, Dunaliella parva, Dunaliella peircei, Dunaliella
                                                8

primolecta, Dunaliella salina, Dunaliella terricola, Dunaliella tertiolecta, Dunaliella viridis,
Dunaliella tertiolecta, Eremosphaera viridis, Eremosphaera sp., Ellipsoidon sp., Euglena,
Franceia sp., Fragilaria crotonensis, Fragilaria sp., Gleocapsa sp., Gloeothamnion sp.,
Hymenomonas sp., Isochrysis aff galbana, Isochrysis galbana, Lepocinclis, Micractinium,
Micractinium (UTEX LB 2614), Monoraphidium minutum, Monoraphidium sp., Nannochloris
sp., Nannochloropsis salina, Nannochloropsis sp., Navicula acceptata, Navicula biskanterae,
Navicula pseudotenelloides, Navicula pelliculosa, Navicula saprophila, Navicula sp.,
Nephrochloris sp., Nephroselmis sp., Nitschia communis, Nitzschia alexandrina, Nitzschia
communis, Nitzschia dissipata, Nitzschiafrustulum, Nitzschia hantzschiana, Nitzschia
inconspicua, Nitzschia intermedia, Nitzschia microcephala, Nitzschia pusilla, Nitzschia
pusilla elliptica, Nitzschia pusilla monoensis, Nitzschia quadrangular, Nitzschia sp.,
 Ochromonas sp., Oocystis parva, Oocystis pusilla, Oocystis sp., Oscillatoria limnetica,
 Oscillatoria sp., Oscillatoria subbrevis, Pascheria acidophila, Pavlova sp., Phagus,
Phormidium, Platymonas sp., Pleurochrysis carterae, Pleurochrysis dentate, Pleurochrysis
sp., Prototheca wickerhamii, Prototheca stagnora, Prototheca portoricensis, Prototheca
moriformis, Prototheca zopfii, Pyramimonas sp., Pyrobotrys, Sarcinoid chrysophyte,
Scenedesmus armatus, Spirogyra, Spirulina platensis, Stichococcus sp., Synechococcus sp.,
Tetraedron, Tetraselmis sp., Tetraselmis suecica, Thalassiosira weissflogii, and Viridiella
fridericiana.
[0027]    In some cases, the oleaginous microbial cell is a cell of the genus Prototheca. In
some cases, the oleaginous microbial cell is a cell of the genus Prototheca moriformis.
[0028]    In some cases, the oleaginous microbial cell is an oleaginous yeast cell. In some
cases, the oleaginous microbial cell is an oleaginous bacterial cell.
[0029]    In some cases, the naturally occurring oil is cocoa butter and the exogenous gene
comprises a Carthamus tinctorus thioesterase gene .. In some cases, the naturally occurring
oil is coconut oil. In some cases, the naturally occurring oil is palm oil and the exogenous
gene comprises a Elaeis guiniensis thioesterase gene, a Cuphea hookeriana thioesterase gene,
a combination of a Cuphea hookeriana KAS IV gene and a Cuphea wrightii FATB2 gene, or
a construct designed to disrupt an endogenous KAS II gene.. In some cases, the naturally
occurring oil is palm kernel oil and the exogenous gene comprises a combination of a Cuphea
wrightii FATB2 gene and a construct designed to disrupt an endogenous SAD2B gene.. In
some cases, the naturally occurring oil is shea butter. In some cases, the naturally occurring
oil is beef tallow. In some cases, the naturally occurring oil is lard and the exogenous gene
comprises a combination of U. californica thioesterase gene and a construct designed to
                                                9

disrupt an endogenous SAD2B gene, a combination of a Garcinia mangostana thioesterase
gene and a construct designed to disrupt an endogenous SAD2B gene, a Brassica napus
thioesterase gene, or a Cuphea hookeriana thioesterase gene ..
[0030]     In a sixteenth aspect, the present invention provides an oleaginous microbial
triglyceride oil composition, wherein the fatty acid profile of the triglyceride oil is selected
from the group consisting of at least about 1% C8:0, at least about 1% ClO:O, at least about
1% C12:0, at least about 2% C14:0, at least about 30% C16:0, at least about 5% C18:0, at
least about 60% C18:1, less than about 7% C18:2, and at least about 35% saturated fatty
acids. In various embodiments, the triglyceride oil composition is produced by cultivating a
population of oleaginous microbial cells or recombinant oleaginous microbial cells in a
culture medium, wherein the oleaginous microbial cells are as described above, in particular
those described above in connection with the fifteeth aspect of the invention.
[0031]     In some cases, the oleaginous microbial triglyceride oil composition further
comprises an attribute selected from the group consisting of: (i) less than 0.3 mcg/g total
carotenoids; (ii) less than 0.005 mcg/g lycopene; (iii) less than 0.005 mcg/g beta carotene;
(iv) less than 0.3 mcg/g chlorophyll A; (v) less than 175 mcg/g gamma tocopherol; (vi) less
than 0.25% brassicasterol, campesterol, stignasterol, or beta-sitosterol; (vii) less than 350
mcg/g total tocotrienols; (viii) less than 0.05 mcg/g lutein; or (ix) less than 275 mcg/g
tocopherols.
[0032]     In a seventeenth aspect, the present invention provides a method of producing an
oleaginous microbial triglyceride oil composition having a fatty acid profile selected from the
group consisting of at least about 1% C8:0, at least about 1% ClO:O, at least about 1% C12:0,
at least about 2% C14:0, at least about 30% C16:0, at least about 5% C18:0, at least about
60% C18:1, less than about 7% C18:2, and at least about 35% saturated fatty acids, wherein
the method comprises the steps of: (a) cultivating a population of oleaginous microbial cells
in a culture medium until at least 10% of the dry cell weight of the oleaginous microbial cells
is triglyceride oil; and (b) isolating the triglyceride oil composition from the oleaginous
microbial cells. In various embodiments, the triglyceride oil composition is produced via
cultivation of a population of oleaginous microbial cells or recombinant oleaginous microbial
cells as described above, in particular those described above in connection with the fifteenth
aspect of the invention.
[0033]     In an eighteenth aspect, the present invention provides a method of making an oil-
based product, wherein the method comprises the steps of: (a) subjecting the oleaginous
microbial triglyceride oil composition, as described above in connection with the sixteenth
                                                  10

aspect of the invention, to at least one chemical reaction selected from the group consisting
of: saponification; metathesis; acid hydrolysis; alkaline hydrolysis; enzymatic hydrolysis;
catalytic hydrolysis; hot-compressed water hydrolysis; a catalytic hydrolysis reaction wherein
the lipid is split into glycerol and fatty acids; an amination reaction to produce fatty nitrogen
compounds; an ozonolysis reaction to produce mono- and dibasic-acids; a triglyceride
splitting reaction selected from the group consisting of enzymatic splitting and pressure
splitting; a condensation reaction that follows a hydrolysis reaction; a hydroprocessing
reaction; a hydroprocessing reaction and a deoxygenation reaction or a condensation reaction
prior to or simultaneous with the hydroprocessing reaction; a gas removal reaction; a
deoxygenation reaction selected from the group consisting of a hydrogenolysis reaction,
hydrogenation, a consecutive hydrogenation-hydrogenolysis reaction, a consecutive
hydrogenolysis-hydrogenation reaction, and a combined hydrogenation-hydrogenolysis
reaction; a condensation reaction following a deoxygenation reaction; an esterification
reaction; an interestification reaction; a transesterification reaction; a hydroxylation reaction;
and a condensation reaction following a hydroxylation reaction; and (b) isolating the product
of the reaction from the other components.
[0034]     In some cases, the oil-based product is selected from the group consisting of a soap,
a fuel, a dielectric fluid, a hydraulic fluid, a plasticizer, a lubricant, a heat transfer fluid, and a
metal working fluid. In some cases, the oil-based product is a fuel product selected from the
group consisting of: (a) biodiesel; (b) renewable diesel; and (c) jet fuel.
[0035]     In some cases, the fuel product is biodiesel with one or more of the following
attributes: (i) less than 0.3 mcg/g total carotenoids; (ii) less than 0.005 mcg/g lycopene; (iii)
less than 0.005 mcg/g beta carotene; (iv) less than 0.3 mcg/g chlorophyll A; (v) less than 175
mcg/g gamma tocopherol; (vi) less than 0.25% brassicasterol, campesterol, stignasterol, or
beta-sitosterol; (vii) less than 350 mcg/g total tocotrienols; (viii) less than 0.05 mcg/g lutein;
or (ix) less than 275 mcg/g tocopherols.
[0036]     In some cases, the fuel product is renewable diesel that has a T10-T90 of at least
20°C, 40°C or 60°C.
[0037]     In some cases, the fuel product is jet fuel that meets HRJ-5 and/or ASTM
specification D 1655.
[0038]     In another aspect, the oleaginous microbial cell of the invention is edible. The
triglyceride oils of the invention are also edible. In some cases, the microbial strain is
cultivated and processed under good manufacturing process (GMP) conditions. As a food or
a food ingredient, the oleaginous microbial cell can be consumed whole. Alternatively, the
                                                   11

microbial biomass is processed into a microbial flakes, powder or flour. Microbial flour is
prepared by completely or partially lysing the cells in the form of a powder. When processed
into microbial flour, the average particle size of lysed microbial biomass is between about 1
to 30 µm. The lysed microbial cells can agglomerate to form bigger particles of up to 1,000
µm. In one embodiment, the flour further comprises a flow agent, antioxidants and the like.
The microbial cells and the microbial oils of the present invention can be consumed by itself.
Alternatively, the microbial cells and the microbial oils of the present invention can be
combined with at least one other ingredient. By way of example, the microbial cells and the
microbial oils can be combined with edible ingredients, e.g., egg, egg products, milk, dairy
products, meats, grains, other edible fats, natural sweetners, artificial sweetners, etc. The
microbial cells and the microbial oils can also be combined with preservatives and other
ingredients added to processed foods.
[0039]    All of the processes described herein can be performed in accordance with GMP or
equivalent regulations. In the United States, GMP regulations for manufacturing, packing, or
holding human food are codified at 21 C.F.R. 110. These provisions, as well as ancillary
provisions referenced therein, are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all
purposes. GMP conditions in the Unites States, and equivalent conditions in other
jurisdictions, apply in determining whether a food is adulterated (the food has been
manufactured under such conditions that it is unfit for food) or has been prepared, packed, or
held under unsanitary conditions such that it may have become contaminated or otherwise
may have been rendered injurious to health. GMP conditions can include adhering to
regulations governing: disease control; cleanliness and training of personnel; maintenance
and sanitary operation of buildings and facilities; provision of adequate sanitary facilities and
accommodations; design, construction, maintenance, and cleanliness of equipment and
utensils; provision of appropriate quality control procedures to ensure all reasonable
precautions are taken in receiving, inspecting, transporting, segregating, preparing,
manufacturing, packaging, and storing food products according to adequate sanitation
principles to prevent contamination from any source; and storage and transportation of
finished food under conditions that will protect food against physical, chemical, or
undesirable microbial contamination, as well as against deterioration of the food and the
container.
[0040]    In some embodiments, the oleaginous microbial cells are algal cells of a species of
the genus Chiarella or Protatheca. In one embodiment, the algae is Chiarella
protathecaides. In another embodiment, the algae is Protatheca marifarmis. _In some cases,
                                                12

the biomass is derived from an algae that is a color mutant with reduced color pigmentation
compared to the strain from which it was derived. Mutants with reduced color pigmentation
are typically prepared using standard mutagenesis techniques. There are many fee-for-
service laboratories that will generate mutants with reduced color pigmentation. In some
embodiments, the microbial biomass is prepared by cultivating the microorganism
heterotrophically and optionally in the absence of light.
[0041]    In one embodiment, the microalgal strain is Chiarella protathecaides 33-55,
deposited on October 13, 2009 at the American Type Culture Collection under deposit
designation PTA-10397. In one embodiment, the microalgal strain is Chiarella
protathecaides 25-32, deposited on October 13, 2009 at the American Type Culture
Collection under deposit designation PTA-10396. In some cases, the microalgal strain
providing the biomass has been grown and processed under good manufacturing process
(GMP) conditions.
[0042]    In another aspect, the present invention provides methods for preparing recombinant
oleaginous microbial biomass suitable for use as a foodstuff. In these methods, the
recombinant oleaginous microbes are fermented under heterotrophic conditions and so lack
or have a significantly reduced amount of green pigment that characterizes other recombinant
microalgal derived foodstuffs. In one embodiment, the recombinant oleaginous microbes
lack or have significantly reduced amounts of any pigment. One aspect of the invention
provides recombinant microalgae of the genus Chiarella and Protathecaides. In some
embodiments, the invention is a microalgae of the genus recombinant Protathecaides.
Another emboiment provides recombinant Protathecaides marifarmis for use in foods and
food ingredients. In one embodiment, the fermentation conditions are manipulated to provide
a biomass rich in lipid. In another embodiment, the fermentation conditions are manipulated
to provide a biomass rich in protein. In all embodiments, the methods can be carried out
cheaply and efficiently at large scale (biomass produced in 4500 L or larger fermentors ).
[0043]    In another aspect, the present invention provides recombinant oleaginous microbial
biomass, preferably microalgal biomass, suitable for incorporation into human foodstuffs. In
one embodiment, this recombinant microbial biomass is the concentrated biomass resulting
directly from the biomass preparation methods of the present invention. In another
embodiment, this biomass is in the form of dried flakes resulting from drying, e.g., drum
drying, such biomass preparations. In this latter embodiment, an antioxidant can be added to
the biomass prior to the drying step to extend the shelf-life of the biomass and any food
product containing such biomass.
                                                13

[0044]     Yet another aspect of the invention provides methods for further processing the
biomass into flakes or a homogenate. In one embodiment, the dried flakes are rehydrated in
deionized water to create a suspension. This suspension is then micronized with a high
pressure homogenizer so that the average particle size is less than 20 µm, preferably 10 µmin
size, creating a homogenate.
[0045]     A further aspect of the present invention provides methods for processing the
recombinant oleaginous microbial biomass, preferably microalgal biomass, into a food
ingredient that is multifunctional in that it provides healthy oils to foods and provides
structural benefits to foods such as baked goods. In one embodiment, the processing involves
pneumatic drying (e.g., spray drying or flash drying) the biomass preparation to form a
powder that contains a large percentage of intact recombinant cells. In another emobodiment,
the biomass is first micronized to disrupt the cells before pneumatic drying to form a flour
that contains only a small percentage (or no) intact cells; in some embodiments a flow or
dispersal agent is added prior to the drying step.
[0046]     In yet another aspect, the present invention is directed to a method of producing an
oil or oil-containing recombinant oleaginous microbial biomass suitable for human
consumption. In some embodiments, the process involves extracting the lipid (triglyceride)
from the biomass to form an oil. In one embodiment, the method comprises providing a
microorganism, and culturing the microorganism in the presence of a feedstock that is not
derived from a food composition suitable for human consumption, in which the
microorganism converts at least some portion of the feedstock into triglyceride oil. In some
cases, the triglyceride oil comprises at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80% or 90% C18:1 lipid.
[0047]     The present invention further provides foods that incorporate a recombinant
microbial powder, recombinant microbial flour, and/or recombinant microbial oil. In one
embodiment, the food is a baked good, dressing, sauce, or mayonnaise in which, relative to
the same food produced using conventional recipes, all or a portion of the egg or butter has
been replaced by a recombinant microbial flour rich in oil. In another embodiment, the food
is a powdered egg product containing a recombinant microbial flour rich in oil. In another
embodiment, the food is a liquid egg product containing a microbial flour rich in oil. In
another embodiment, the food is a liquid milk product containing microbial protein, fiber, and
oil. In another embodiment, the food is a meat product in which, relative to previously
available meat products, a portion or all (a meat substitute) of the meat has been replaced by a
recombinant microbial flour, recombinant microbial powder, or recombinant microbial flake
rich in protein.
                                                 14

[0048]     The invention also provides methods of inducing satiety by providing recombinant
microbial foods or microbial food ingredients containing microbial fiber and optionally
microbial protein and/or microbial oil.
[0049]     These and other aspects and embodiments of the invention are described in the
accompanying drawing, a brief description of which immediately follows, the detailed
description of the invention below, and are exemplified in the examples below. Any or all of
the features discussed above and throughout the application can be combined in various
embodiments of the present invention.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0050]     Figure 1 shows a chromatogram of renewable diesel produced from Prototheca
triglyceride oil.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0051]     The present invention arises from the discovery that Prototheca and certain related
microorganisms have unexpectedly advantageous properties for the production of oils, fuels,
and other hydrocarbon or lipid compositions economically and in large quantities, as well as
from the discovery of methods and reagents for genetically altering these microorganisms to
improve these properties. The oils produced by these microorganisms can be used in the
transportation fuel, oleochemical, and/or food and cosmetic industries, among other
applications. Transesterification of lipids yields long-chain fatty acid esters useful as
biodiesel. Other enzymatic and chemical processes can be tailored to yield fatty acids,
aldehydes, alcohols, alkanes, and alkenes. In some applications, renewable diesel, jet fuel, or
other hydrocarbon compounds are produced. The present invention also provides methods of
cultivating microalgae for increased productivity and increased lipid yield, and/or for more
cost-effective production of the compositions described herein.
[0052]     This detailed description of the invention is divided into sections for the
convenience of the reader. Section I provides definitions of terms used herein. Section II
provides a description of culture conditions useful in the methods of the invention. Section III
provides a description of genetic engineering methods and materials. Section IV provides a
description of genetic engineering of microorganisms (e.g. ,Prototheca) to enable sucrose
utilization. Section V provides a description of genetic engineering of microorganisms (e.g.,
Prototheca) to modify lipid biosynthesis. Section VI describes methods for making fuels and
chemicals. Section VII describes methods for preparing recombinant microbial biomass.
Section VIII describes methods for processing recombinant microbial biomass into finished
food products. Section IX describes methods for combining recombinant microbial biomass
                                                 15

   or materials derived therefrom withn other food ingredients. Section X discloses examples
   and embodiments of the invention. The detailed description of the invention is followed by
   examples that illustrate the various aspects and embodiments of the invention.
   I.         DEFINITIONS
00
0  [0053]     Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
   meaning commonly understood by a person skilled in the art to which this invention belongs.
   The following references provide one of skill with a general definition of many of the terms
   used in this invention: Singleton et al., Dictionary of Microbiology and Molecular Biology
   (2nd ed. 1994); The Cambridge Dictionary of Science and Technology (Walker ed., 1988);
   The Glossary of Genetics, 5th Ed., R. Rieger et al. (eds.), Springer Verlag (1991); and Hale &
   Marham, The Harper Collins Dictionary of Biology (1991). As used herein, the following
   terms have the meanings ascribed to them unless specified otherwise.
   [0054]     "Active in microalgae" refers to a nucleic acid that is functional in microalgae. For
   example, a promoter that has been used to drive an antibiotic resistance gene to impart
   antibiotic resistance to a transgenic microalgae is active in microalgae.
   [0055]     "Acyl carrier protein" or "ACP" is a protein that binds a growing acyl chain during
   fatty acid synthesis as a thiol ester at the distal thiol of the 4'-phosphopantetheine moiety and
   comprises a component of the fatty acid synthase complex.
   [0056]     "Acyl-CoA molecule" or "acyl-CoA" is a molecule comprising an acyl moiety
   covalently attached to coenzyme A through a thiol ester linkage at the distal thiol of the 4'-
   phosphopantetheine moiety of coenzyme A.
   [0057]     "Area Percent" refers to the area of peaks observed using FAME GC/FID detection
   methods in which every fatty acid in the sample is converted into a fatty acid methyl ester
   (FAME) prior to detection. For example, a separate peak is observed for a fatty acid of 14
   carbon atoms with no unsaturation (Cl4:0) compared to any other fatty acid such as Cl4:1.
   The peak area for each class of FAME is directly proportional to its percent composition in
   the mixture and is calculated based on the sum of all peaks present in the sample (i.e. [area
   under specific peak/ total area of all measured peaks] X 100). When referring to lipid
   profiles of oils and cells of the invention, "at least 4% C8-C 14" means that at least 4% of the
   total fatty acids in the cell or in the extracted glycerolipid composition have a chain length
   that includes 8, 10, 12 or 14 carbon atoms.
   [0058]     "Axenic" is a culture of an organism free from contamination by other living
   organisms.
                                                      16

[0059]     "Baked good" means a food item, typically found in a bakery, that is prepared by
using an oven. Baked goods include, but are not limited to brownies, cookies, pies, cakes and
pastries.
[0060]     "Bread" means a food item that contains wheat flour, liquid, and a leavening agent.
Breads are usually prepared by baking in an oven, although other methods of cooking are also
acceptable. The leavening agent can be chemical or organic in nature. Typically, the organic
leavening agent is yeast. In the case where the leavening agent is chemical in nature (such as
baking powder and/or baking soda), these food products are referred to as "quick breads".
[0061]     "Biodiesel" is a biologically produced fatty acid alkyl ester suitable for use as a fuel
in a diesel engine.
[0062]     "Biomass" is material produced by growth and/or propagation of cells. Biomass
may contain cells and/or intracellular contents as well as extracellular material, includes, but
is not limited to, compounds secreted by a cell.
[0063]     "Bioreactor" is an enclosure or partial enclosure in which cells are cultured,
optionally in suspension.
[0064]     "Catalyst" is an agent, such as a molecule or macromolecular complex, capable of
facilitating or promoting a chemical reaction of a reactant to a product without becoming a
part of the product. A catalyst increases the rate of a reaction, after which, the catalyst may
act on another reactant to form the product. A catalyst generally lowers the overall activation
energy required for the reaction such that it proceeds more quickly or at a lower temperature.
Thus, a reaction equilibrium may be more quickly attained. Examples of catalysts include
enzymes, which are biological catalysts; heat, which is a non-biological catalyst; and metals
used in fossil oil refining processes.
[0065]     "Cellulosic material" is the product of digestion of cellulose, including glucose and
xylose, and optionally additional compounds such as disaccharides, oligosaccharides, lignin,
furfurals and other compounds. Nonlimiting examples of sources of cellulosic material
include sugar cane bagasses, sugar beet pulp, corn stover, wood chips, sawdust and
switchgrass.
[0066]     "Co-culture", and variants thereof such as "co-cultivate" and "co-ferment", refer to
the presence of two or more types of cells in the same bioreactor. The two or more types of
cells may both be microorganisms, such as microalgae, or may be a microalgal cell cultured
with a different cell type. The culture conditions may be those that foster growth and/or
propagation of the two or more cell types or those that facilitate growth and/or proliferation
                                                17

of one, or a subset, of the two or more cells while maintaining cellular growth for the
remainder.
[0067]    "Cofactor" is any molecule, other than the substrate, required for an enzyme to carry
out its enzymatic activity.
[0068]    "Complementary DNA" or "cDNA" is a DNA copy of mRNA, usually obtained by
reverse transcription of messenger RNA (mRNA) or amplification (e.g., via polymerase chain
reaction ("PCR")).
[0069]    "Conventional food product" means a composition intended for consumption, e.g.,
by a human, that lacks algal biomass or other algal components and includes ingredients
ordinarily associated with the food product, particularly a vegetable oil, animal fat, and/or
egg(s), together with other edible ingredients. Conventional food products include food
products sold in shops and restaurants and those made in the home. Conventional food
products are often made by following conventional recipes that specify inclusion of an oil or
fat from a non-algal source and/or egg(s) together with other edible ingredient(s).
[0070]    "Cooked product" means a food that has been heated, e.g., in an oven, for a period
of time.
[0071]    "Creamy salad dressing" means a salad dressing that is a stable dispersion with high
viscosity and a slow pour-rate. Generally, creamy salad dressings are opaque.
[0072]    "Cultivated", and variants thereof such as "cultured" and "fermented", refer to the
intentional fostering of growth (increases in cell size, cellular contents, and/or cellular
activity) and/or propagation (increases in cell numbers via mitosis) of one or more cells by
use of selected and/or controlled conditions. The combination of both growth and
propagation may be termed proliferation. Examples of selected and/or controlled conditions
include the use of a defined medium (with known characteristics such as pH, ionic strength,
and carbon source), specified temperature, oxygen tension, carbon dioxide levels, and growth
in a bioreactor. Cultivate does not refer to the growth or propagation of microorganisms in
nature or otherwise without human intervention; for example, natural growth of an organism
that ultimately becomes fossilized to produce geological crude oil is not cultivation.
[0073]    "Cytolysis" is the lysis of cells in a hypotonic environment. Cytolysis is caused by
excessive osmosis, or movement of water, towards the inside of a cell (hyperhydration). The
cell cannot withstand the osmotic pressure of the water inside, and so it explodes.
[0074]    "Delipidated meal" and "delipidated microbial biomass" is microbial biomass after
oil (including lipids) has been extracted or isolated from it, either through the use of
mechanical (i.e., exerted by an expeller press) or solvent extraction or both. Delipidated meal
                                                  18

has a reduced amount of oil/lipids as compared to before the extraction or isolation of
oil/lipids from the microbial biomass but does contain some residual oil/lipid.
[0075]     "Dietary fiber" means non-starch carbohydrates found in plants and other organisms
containing cell walls, including microalgae. Dietary fiber can be soluble (dissolved in water)
or insoluble (not able to be dissolved in water). Soluble and insoluble fiber makes up total
dietary fiber.
[0076]     "Digestible crude protein" is the portion of protein that is available or can be
converted into free nitrogen (amino acids) after digesting with gastric enzymes. In vitro
measurement of digestible crude protein is accomplished by using gastric enzymes such as
pepsin and digesting a sample and measuring the free amino acid after digestion. In vivo
measurement of digestible crude protein is accomplished by measuring the protein levels in a
feed/food sample and feeding the sample to an animal and measuring the amount of nitrogen
collected in the animal's feces.
[0077]     "Dry weight" and "dry cell weight" mean weight determined in the relative absence
of water. For example, reference to recombinant microalgal biomass as comprising a
specified percentage of a particular component by dry weight means that the percentage is
calculated based on the weight of the biomass after substantially all water has been removed.
[0078]     "Edible ingredient" means any substance or composition which is fit to be eaten.
"Edible ingredients" include, without limitation, grains, fruits, vegetables, proteins, herbs,
spices, carbohydrates, and fats.
[0079]     "Expression vector" or "expression construct" or "plasmid" or "recombinant DNA
construct" refer to a nucleic acid that has been generated via human intervention, including
by recombinant means or direct chemical synthesis, with a series of specified nucleic acid
elements that permit transcription and/or translation of a particular nucleic acid in a host cell.
The expression vector can be part of a plasmid, virus, or nucleic acid fragment. Typically, the
expression vector includes a nucleic acid to be transcribed operably linked to a promoter.
[0080]     "Exogenous gene" is a nucleic acid that codes for the expression of an RNA and/or
protein that has been introduced ("transformed") into a cell. A transformed cell may be
referred to as a recombinant cell, into which additional exogenous gene(s) may be introduced.
The exogenous gene may be from a different species (and so heterologous), or from the same
species (and so homologous), relative to the cell being transformed. Thus, an exogenous gene
can include a homologous gene that occupies a different location in the genome of the cell or
is under different control, relative to the endogenous copy of the gene. An exogenous gene
                                                19

   may be present in more than one copy in the cell. An exogenous gene may be maintained in a
   cell as an insertion into the genome or as an episomal molecule.
   [0081]     "Exogenously provided" refers to a molecule provided to the culture media of a cell
   culture.
00
0  [0082]     "Expeller pressing" is a mechanical method for extracting oil from raw materials
   such as soybeans and rapeseed. An expeller press is a screw type machine, which presses
   material through a caged barrel-like cavity. Raw materials enter one side of the press and
   spent cake exits the other side while oil seeps out between the bars in the cage and is
   collected. The machine uses friction and continuous pressure from the screw drives to move
   and compress the raw material. The oil seeps through small openings that do not allow solids
   to pass through. As the raw material is pressed, friction typically causes it to heat up.
   [0083]     "Fat" means a lipid or mixture of lipids that is generally solid at ordinary room
   temperatures and pressures. "Fat" includes, without limitation, lard and butter.
   [0084]     "Fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase" is an enzyme that catalyzes the cleavage of a fatty
   acid from an acyl carrier protein (ACP) during lipid synthesis.
   [0085]     "Fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductase" is an enzyme that catalyzes the reduction of
   an acyl-CoA molecule to a primary alcohol.
   [0086]     "Fatty acyl-CoA reductase" is an enzyme that catalyzes the reduction of an acyl-
   CoA molecule to an aldehyde.
   [0087]     "Fatty aldehyde decarbonylase" is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of a
   fatty aldehyde to an alkane.
   [0088]     "Fatty aldehyde reductase" is an enzyme that catalyzes the reduction of an aldehyde
   to a primary alcohol.
   [0089]      "Fiber" means non-starch carbohydrates in the form of polysaccharide. Fiber can
   be soluble in water or insoluble in water. Many microalgae produce both soluble and
   insoluble fiber, typically residing in the cell wall.
   [0090]     "Finished food product" and "finished food ingredient" mean a food composition
   that is ready for packaging, use, or consumption. For example, a "finished food product"
   may have been cooked or the ingredients comprising the "finished food product" may have
   been mixed or otherwise integrated with one another. A "finished food ingredient" is
   typically used in combination with other ingredients to form a food product.
   [0091]     "Fixed carbon source" is a molecule(s) containing carbon, typically an organic
   molecule, that is present at ambient temperature and pressure in solid or liquid form in a
   culture media that can be utilized by a microorganism cultured therein.
                                                    20

[0092]     "Food", "food composition", "food product" and "foodstuff' mean any composition
intended to be or expected to be ingested by humans as a source of nutrition and/or calories.
Food compositions are composed primarily of carbohydrates, fats, water and/or proteins and
make up substantially all of a person's daily caloric intake. A "food composition" can have a
weight minimum that is at least ten times the weight of a typical tablet or capsule (typical
tablet/capsule weight ranges are from less than or equal to 100 mg up to 1500 mg). A "food
composition" is not encapsulated or in tablet form.
[0093]     "Good manufacturing practice" and "GMP" mean those conditions established by
regulations set forth at 21 C.F.R. 110 (for human food) and 111 (for dietary supplements), or
comparable regulatory schemes established in locales outside the United States. The U.S.
regulations are promulgated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration under the authority of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to regulate manufacturers, processors, and
packagers of food products and dietary supplements for human consumption.
[0094]     "Homogenate" means biomass that has been physically disrupted. Homogenization
is a fluid mechanical process that involves the subdivision of particles into smaller and more
uniform sizes, forming a dispersion that may be subjected to further processing.
Homogenization is used in treatment of several foods and dairy products to improve stability,
shelf-life, digestion, and taste.
[0095]     "Hydrocarbon" is (a) a molecule containing only hydrogen and carbon atoms
wherein the carbon atoms are covalently linked to form a linear, branched, cyclic, or partially
cyclic backbone to which the hydrogen atoms are attached. The molecular structure of
hydrocarbon compounds varies from the simplest, in the form of methane (CH4 ), which is a
constituent of natural gas, to the very heavy and very complex, such as some molecules such
as asphaltenes found in crude oil, petroleum, and bitumens. Hydrocarbons may be in gaseous,
liquid, or solid form, or any combination of these forms, and may have one or more double or
triple bonds between adjacent carbon atoms in the backbone. Accordingly, the term includes
linear, branched, cyclic, or partially cyclic alkanes, alkenes, lipids, and paraffin. Examples
include propane, butane, pentane, hexane, octane, and squalene.
[0096]     "Hydrogen: carbon ratio" is the ratio of hydrogen atoms to carbon atoms in a
molecule on an atom-to-atom basis. The ratio may be used to refer to the number of carbon
and hydrogen atoms in a hydrocarbon molecule. For example, the hydrocarbon with the
highest ratio is methane CH4 (4:1).
                                                 21

[0097]     "Hydrophobic fraction" is the portion, or fraction, of a material that is more soluble
in a hydrophobic phase in comparison to an aqueous phase. A hydrophobic fraction is
substantially insoluble in water and usually non-polar.
[0098]     "Increase lipid yield" refers to an increase in the productivity of a microbial culture
by, for example, increasing dry weight of cells per liter of culture, increasing the percentage
of cells that constitute lipid, or increasing the overall amount of lipid per liter of culture
volume per unit time.
[0099]     "Inducible promoter" is a promoter that mediates transcription of an operably linked
gene in response to a particular stimulus. Examples of such promoters may be promoter
sequences that are induced in conditions of changing pH or nitrogen levels.
[0100]     "In operable linkage" is a functional linkage between two nucleic acid sequences,
such a control sequence (typically a promoter) and the linked sequence (typically a sequence
that encodes a protein, also called a coding sequence). A promoter is in operable linkage with
an exogenous gene if it can mediate transcription of the gene.
[0101]     "In situ" means "in place" or "in its original position".
[0102]     "Limiting concentration of a nutrient" is a concentration of a compound in a culture
that limits the propagation of a cultured organism. A "non-limiting concentration of a
nutrient" is a concentration that supports maximal propagation during a given culture period.
Thus, the number of cells produced during a given culture period is lower in the presence of a
limiting concentration of a nutrient than when the nutrient is non-limiting. A nutrient is said
to be "in excess" in a culture, when the nutrient is present at a concentration greater than that
which supports maximal propagation.
[0103]     "Lipase" is a water-soluble enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of ester bonds in
water-insoluble, lipid substrates. Lipases catalyze the hydrolysis of lipids into glycerols and
fatty acids.
[0104]     "Lipid modification enzyme" refers to an enayme that alters the covalent structure
of a lipid. Examples of lipid modification enzymes include a lipase, a fatty acyl-ACP
thioesterase, a fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductase, a fatty acyl-CoA reductase, a fatty
aldehyde reductase, a desaturase, including a stearoyl acyl carrier protein desaturase (SAD)
and a fatty acyl destaurase (FAD), and a fatty aldehyde decarbonylase.
[0105]     "Lipid pathway enzyme" is any enzyme that plays a role in lipid metabolism, i.e.,
either lipid synthesis, modification, or degradation, and any proteins that chemically modify
lipids, as well as carrier proteins.
                                                  22

[0106]     "Lipids" are a class of molecules that are soluble in nonpolar solvents (such as ether
and chloroform) and are relatively or completely insoluble in water. Lipid molecules have
these properties, because they consist largely of long hydrocarbon tails which are
hydrophobic in nature. Examples of lipids include fatty acids (saturated and unsaturated);
glycerides or glycerolipids (such as monoglycerides, diglycerides, triglycerides or neutral
fats, and phosphoglycerides or glycerophospholipids); nonglycerides (sphingolipids, sterol
lipids including cholesterol and steroid hormones, prenol lipids including terpenoids, fatty
alcohols, waxes, and polyketides); and complex lipid derivatives (sugar-linked lipids, or
glycolipids, and protein-linked lipids). "Fats" are a subgroup of lipids called
"triacylglycerides."
[0107]     "Lysate" is a solution containing the contents of lysed cells.
[0108]     "Lysis" is the breakage of the plasma membrane and optionally the cell wall of a
biological organism sufficient to release at least some intracellular content, often by
mechanical, viral or osmotic mechanisms that compromise its integrity.
[0109]     "Lysing" is disrupting the cellular membrane and optionally the cell wall of a
biological organism or cell sufficient to release at least some intracellular content.
[0110]     "Microalgae" is a eukarytotic microbial organism that contains a chloroplast or
plastid, and optionally that is capable of performing photosynthesis, or a prokaryotic
microbial organism capable of performing photosynthesis. Microalgae include obligate
photoautotrophs, which cannot metabolize a fixed carbon source as energy, as well as
heterotrophs, which can live solely off of a fixed carbon source. Microalgae include
unicellular organisms that separate from sister cells shortly after cell division, such as
Chlamydomonas, as well as microbes such as, for example, Volvox, which is a simple
multicellular photosynthetic microbe of two distinct cell types. Microalgae include cells such
as Chlorella, Dunaliella, and Prototheca. Microalgae also include other microbial
photosynthetic organisms that exhibit cell-cell adhesion, such as Agmenellum, Anabaena, and
Pyrobotrys. Microalgae also include obligate heterotrophic microorganisms that have lost the
ability to perform photosynthesis, such as certain dinoflagellate algae species and species of
the genus Prototheca.
[0111]     "Microbial biomass," "Microalgal biomass," "algal biomass," and "biomass" mean
a material produced by growth and/or propagation of microbial or microalgal cells. Biomass
may contain cells and/or intracellular contents as well as extracellular material. Extracellular
material includes, but is not limited to, compounds secreted by a cell.
                                                23

[0112]    "Micronized" means biomass that has been homogenized under high pressure (or an
equivalent process) so that at least 50% of the particle size is no more 10 µmin their longest
dimension. Typically, at least 50% to 90% or more of such particles are less than 5 µmin
their longest dimension. In any case, the average particle size of micronized biomass is
smaller than the intact recombinant microalgal cell.
[0113]    "Microorganism" and "microbe" are microscopic unicellular organisms.
[0114]    "Naturally co-expressed" with reference to two proteins or genes means that the
proteins or their genes are co-expressed naturally in a tissue or organism from which they are
derived, e.g., because the genes encoding the two proteins are under the control of a common
regulatory sequence or because they are expressed in response to the same stimulus.
[0115]    "Oil" means any triacylglyceride, produced by organisms, including microalgae,
other plants, and/or animals. "Oil," as distinguished from "fat", refers, unless otherwise
indicated, to lipids that are generally liquid at ordinary room temperatures and pressures. For
example, "oil" includes vegetable or seed oils derived from plants, including without
limitation, an oil derived from soy, rapeseed, canola, palm, palm kernel, coconut, corn, olive,
sunflower, cotton seed, cuphea, peanut, camelina sativa, mustard seed, cashew nut, oats,
lupine, kenaf, calendula, hemp, coffee, linseed, hazelnut, euphorbia, pumpkin seed, coriander,
camellia, sesame, safflower, rice, tung oil tree, cocoa, copra, pium poppy, castor beans,
pecan, jojoba, jatropha, macadamia, Brazil nuts, and avocado, as well as combinations
thereof.
[0116]    "Osmotic shock" is the rupture of cells in a solution following a sudden reduction in
osmotic pressure. Osmotic shock is sometimes induced to release cellular components of
such cells into a solution.
[0117]    "Pasteurization" means a process of heating which is intended to slow microbial
growth in food products. Typically pasteurization is performed at a high temperature (but
below boiling) for a short amount of time. As described herein, pasteurization can not only
reduce the number of undesired microbes in food products, but can also inactivate certain
enzymes present in the food product.
[0118]    "Polysaccharide-degrading enzyme" is any enzyme capable of catalyzing the
hydrolysis, or saccharification, of any polysaccharide. For example, cellulases catalyze the
hydrolysis of cellulose.
[0119]    "Polysaccharides" or "glycans" are carbohydrates made up of monosaccharides
joined together by glycosidic linkages. Cellulose is a polysaccharide that makes up certain
                                                  24

plant cell walls. Cellulose can be depolymerized by enzymes to yield monosaccharides such
as xylose and glucose, as well as larger disaccharides and oligosaccharides.
[0120]     "Port" means an opening in a bioreactor that allows influx or efflux of materials
such as gases, liquids, and cells; a port is usually connected to tubing.
[0121]     "Predominantly encapsulated" means that more than 50% and typically more than
75% to 90% of a referenced component, e.g., algal oil, is sequestered in a referenced
container, which can include, e.g., a recombinant microalgal cell.
[0122]     "Predominantly intact cells" and "predominantly intact biomass" mean a population
of cells that comprise more than 50, and oftern more than 75, 90, and 98% intact cells.
"Intact", in this context, means that the physical continuity of the cellular membrane and/or
cell wall enclosing the intracellular components of the cell has not been disrupted in any
manner that would release the intracellular components of the cell to an extent that exceeds
the permeability of the cellular membrane in culture.
[0123]     "Predominantly lysed" means a population of cells in which more than 50%, and
typically more than 75 to 90%, of the cells have been disrupted such that the intracellular
components of the cell are no longer completely enclosed within the cell membrane.
[0124]     "Proliferation" means a combination of both growth and propagation.
[0125]     "Promoter" is a nucleic acid control sequence that directs transcription of a nucleic
acid. As used herein, a promoter includes necessary nucleic acid sequences near the start site
of transcription, such as, in the case of a polymerase II type promoter, a TAT A element. A
promoter also optionally includes distal enhancer or repressor elements, which can be located
as much as several thousand base pairs from the start site of transcription.
[0126]     "Propagation" means an increase in cell number via mitosis or other cell division.
[0127]     "Proximate analysis" means analysis of foodstuffs for fat, nitrogen/protein, crude
fiber (cellulose and lignin as main components), moisture and ash. Soluble carbohydrate
(total dietary fiber and free sugars) can be calculated by subtracting the total of the known
values of the proximate analysis from 100 (carbohydrate by difference).
[0128]     "Recombinant" is a cell, nucleic acid, protein or vector, that has been modified due
to the introduction of an exogenous nucleic acid or the alteration of a native nucleic acid.
Thus, e.g., recombinant cells express genes that are not found within the native (non-
recombinant) form of the cell or express native genes differently than those genes are
expressed by a non-recombinant cell. A "recombinant nucleic acid" is a nucleic acid
originally formed in vitro, in general, by the manipulation of nucleic acid, e.g., using
polymerases and endonucleases, or otherwise is in a form not normally found in nature.
                                                 25

Recombinant nucleic acids may be produced, for example, to place two or more nucleic acids
in operable linkage. Thus, an isolated nucleic acid or an expression vector formed in vitro by
ligating DNA molecules that are not normally joined in nature, are both considered
recombinant for the purposes of this invention. Once a recombinant nucleic acid is made and
introduced into a host cell or organism, it may replicate using the in vivo cellular machinery
of the host cell; however, such nucleic acids, once produced recombinantly, although
subsequently replicated intracellularly, are still considered recombinant for purposes of this
invention. Similarly, a "recombinant protein" is a protein made using recombinant
techniques, i.e., through the expression of a recombinant nucleic acid.
[0129]     "Recombinant microbial oil," "Recombinant microalgal oil" and "algal oil" mean
any of the lipid components produced by recombinant microbial or microalgal cells or algal
cells, respectively, including triacylglycerols.
[0130]     "Renewable diesel" is a mixture of alkanes (such as ClO:O, Cl2:0, Cl4:0, Cl6:0
and Cl8:0) produced through hydrogenation and deoxygenation of lipids.
[0131]     "Saccharification" is a process of converting biomass, usually cellulosic or
lignocellulosic biomass, into monomeric sugars, such as glucose and xylose. "Saccharified"
or "depolymerized" cellulosic material or biomass refers to cellulosic material or biomass
that has been converted into monomeric sugars through saccharification.
[0132]     The term "similar," when used in the context of a comparison to a naturally
occurring oil, without further qualification, means that the oil being compared to the naturally
occurring oil contains about+/- 15%, or+/- 10% of the top two triglycerides of the naturally
occurring oil. For example, Shea butter (the oil of B. Parkii) contains 41.2-56.8% Cl8:0 and
34.0-46.9% Cl8:1 as the two most common triglyceride components (see Table 5). A
"similar" oil that is within+/- 10% would contain from about 37% to about 62% Cl8:0 and
from 31 % to about 52% Cl8:1 as the two most common triglyceride components. When
used in this context, the term "similar" includes+/- 9%, +/- 8%, +/- 7%, +/- 6%, +/- 5%, +/-
4%, +/- 3%, +/- 2%, or+/- 1%, and can further represent a comparison to the top three or top
four triglycerides of the naturally occurring oil, or two out of the top three triglycerides, or
three out of the top four triglycerides.
[0133]     "Sonication" is a process of disrupting biological materials, such as a cell, by use of
sound wave energy.
[0134]     "Species of furfural" is 2-furancarboxaldehyde or a derivative that retains the same
basic structural characteristics.
                                                 26

[0135]     "Stover" is the dried stalks and leaves of a crop remaining after a grain has been
harvested.
[0136]     "Sucrose utilization gene" is a gene that, when expressed, aids the ability of a cell to
utilize sucrose as an energy source. Proteins encoded by a sucrose utilization gene are
referred to herein as "sucrose utilization enzymes" and include sucrose transporters, sucrose
invertases, and hexokinases such as glucokinases and fructokinases.
[0137]     "Suitable for human consumption" means a composition can be consumed by
humans as dietary intake without ill health effects and can provide significant caloric intake
due to uptake of digested material in the gastrointestinal tract.
[0138]     "Uncooked product" means a composition that has not been subjected to heating but
may include one or more components previously subjected to heating.
[0139]     "V/V" or "v/v", in reference to proportions by volume, means the ratio of the
volume of one substance in a composition to the volume of the composition. For example,
reference to a composition that comprises 5% v/v recombinant microalgal oil means that 5%
of the composition's volume is composed of recombinant microalgal oil (e.g., such a
composition having a volume of 100 mm 3 would contain 5 mm3 of recombinant microalgal
oil), and the remainder of the volume of the composition (e.g., 95 mm 3 in the example) is
composed of other ingredients.
[0140]     "W/W" or "w/w", in reference to proportions by weight, means the ratio of the
weight of one substance in a composition to the weight of the composition. For example,
reference to a composition that comprises 5% w/w recombinant microalgal biomass means
that 5% of the composition's weight is composed of recombinant microalgal biomass (e.g.,
such a composition having a weight of 100 mg would contain 5 mg of recombinant
microalgal biomass) and the remainder of the weight of the composition (e.g., 95 mg in the
example) is composed of other ingredients.
II.        CULTIVATION
[0141]     The present invention generally relates to cultivation of microorganisms
(e.g.,microalgae, oleaginous yeast, fungi, and bacteria), particularly recombinant microalgal
strains, including Prototheca strains, for the production of lipid. For the convenience of the
reader, this section is subdivided into subsections. Subsection 1 describes Prototheca species
and strains and how to identify new Prototheca species and strains and related microalgae by
genomic DNA comparison, as well as other microorganisms. Subsection 2 describes
bioreactors useful for cultivation. Subsection 3 describes media for cultivation. Subsection 4
                                                 27

describes oil production in accordance with illustrative cultivation methods of the invention.
These descriptions are also more generally applicable to other microorganisms.
          1.    Prototheca species and strains and other microorganisms
[0142]    Prototheca is a remarkable microorganism for use in the production of lipid,
because it can produce high levels of lipid, particularly lipid suitable for fuel production. The
lipid produced by Prototheca has hydrocarbon chains of shorter chain length and a higher
degree of saturation than that produced by other microalgae. Moreover, Prototheca lipid is
generally free of pigment (low to undetectable levels of chlorophyll and certain carotenoids)
and in any event contains much less pigment than lipid from other microalgae. Moreover,
recombinant Prototheca cells provided by the invention can be used to produce lipid in
greater yield and efficiency, and with reduced cost, relative to the production of lipid from
other microorganisms. Illustrative Prototheca strains for use in the methods of the invention
include In addition, this microalgae grows heterotrophically and can be genetically
engineered as Prototheca wickerhamii, Prototheca stagnora (including UTEX 327),
Protothecaportoricensis, Prototheca moriformis (including UTEX strains 1441, 1435), and
Prototheca zopfii. Species of the genus Prototheca are obligate heterotrophs.
[0143]    Species of Prototheca for use in the invention can be identified by amplification of
certain target regions of the genome. For example, identification of a specific Prototheca
species or strain can be achieved through amplification and sequencing of nuclear and/or
chloroplast DNA using primers and methodology using any region of the genome, for
example using the methods described in Wu et al., Bot. Bull. Acad. Sin. (2001) 42:115-121
Identification of Chiarella spp. isolates using ribosomal DNA sequences. Well established
methods of phylogenetic analysis, such as amplification and sequencing of ribosomal internal
transcribed spacer (ITSl and ITS2 rDNA), 23S rRNA, 18S rRNA, and other conserved
genomic regions can be used by those skilled in the art to identify species of not only
Prototheca, but other hydrocarbon and lipid producing organisms with similar lipid profiles
and production capability. For examples of methods of identification and classification of
algae also see for example Genetics, 2005 Aug;170(4):1601-10 and RNA, 2005
Apr;l1(4):361-4.
[0144]    Thus, genomic DNA comparison can be used to identify suitable species of
microalgae to be used in the present invention. Regions of conserved genomic DNA, such as
but not limited to DNA encoding for 23S rRNA, can be amplified from microalgal species
and compared to consensus sequences in order to screen for microalgal species that are
taxonomically related to the preferred microalgae used in the present invention. Examples of
                                                28

such DNA sequence comparison for species within the Prototheca genus are shown below.
Genomic DNA comparison can also be useful to identify microalgal species that have been
misidentified in a strain collection. Often a strain collection will identify species of
microalgae based on phenotypic and morphological characteristics. The use of these
characteristics may lead to miscategorization of the species or the genus of a microalgae. The
use of genomic DNA comparison can be a better method of categorizing microalgae species
based on their phylogenetic relationship.
[0145]    Microalgae for use in the present invention typically have genomic DNA sequences
encoding for 23S rRNA that have at least 99%, least 95%, at least 90%, or at least 85%
nucleotide identity to at least one of the sequences listed in SEQ ID NOs: 11-19.
[0146]    For sequence comparison to determine percent nucleotide or amino acid identity,
typically one sequence acts as a reference sequence, to which test sequences are compared.
When using a sequence comparison algorithm, test and reference sequences are input into a
computer, subsequence coordinates are designated, if necessary, and sequence algorithm
program parameters are designated. The sequence comparison algorithm then calculates the
percent sequence identity for the test sequence(s) relative to the reference sequence, based on
the designated program parameters.
[0147]    Optimal alignment of sequences for comparison can be conducted, e.g., by the local
homology algorithm of Smith & Waterman, Adv. Appl. Math. 2:482 (1981), by the homology
alignment algorithm of Needleman & Wunsch, J. Mol. Biol. 48:443 (1970), by the search for
similarity method of Pearson & Lipman, Proc. Nat'/. Acad. Sci. USA 85:2444 (1988), by
computerized implementations of these algorithms (GAP, BESTFIT, FASTA, and TFASTA
in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package, Genetics Computer Group, 575 Science Dr.,
Madison, WI), or by visual inspection (see generally Ausubel et al., supra).
[0148]    Another example algorithm that is suitable for determining percent sequence
identity and sequence similarity is the BLAST algorithm, which is described in Altschul et
al., J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-410 (1990). Software for performing BLAST analyses is publicly
available through the National Center for Biotechnology Information (at the web address
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov). This algorithm involves first identifying high scoring sequence pairs
(HSPs) by identifying short words of length W in the query sequence, which either match or
satisfy some positive-valued threshold score T when aligned with a word of the same length
in a database sequence. T is referred to as the neighborhood word score threshold (Altschul et
al., supra.). These initial neighborhood word hits act as seeds for initiating searches to find
longer HSPs containing them. The word hits are then extended in both directions along each
                                                 29

sequence for as far as the cumulative alignment score can be increased. Cumulative scores
are calculated using, for nucleotide sequences, the parameters M (reward score for a pair of
matching residues; always> 0) and N (penalty score for mismatching residues; always< 0).
For amino acid sequences, a scoring matrix is used to calculate the cumulative score.
Extension of the word hits in each direction are halted when: the cumulative alignment score
falls off by the quantity X from its maximum achieved value; the cumulative score goes to
zero or below due to the accumulation of one or more negative-scoring residue alignments; or
the end of either sequence is reached. For identifying whether a nucleic acid or polypeptide is
within the scope of the invention, the default parameters of the BLAST programs are suitable.
The BLASTN program (for nucleotide sequences) uses as defaults a word length (W) of 11,
an expectation (E) of 10, M=5, N=-4, and a comparison of both strands. For amino acid
sequences, the BLASTP program uses as defaults a word length (W) of 3, an expectation (E)
of 10, and the BLOSUM62 scoring matrix. The TBLATN program (using protein sequence
for nucleotide sequence) uses as defaults a word length (W) of 3, an expectation (E) of 10,
and a BLOSUM 62 scoring matrix. (see Henikoff & Henikoff, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
89:10915 (1989)).
[0149]     In addition to calculating percent sequence identity, the BLAST algorithm also
performs a statistical analysis of the similarity between two sequences (see, e.g., Karlin &
Altschul, Proc. Nat'l. Acad. Sci. USA 90:5873-5787 (1993)). One measure of similarity
provided by the BLAST algorithm is the smallest sum probability (P(N)), which provides an
indication of the probability by which a match between two nucleotide or amino acid
sequences would occur by chance. For example, a nucleic acid is considered similar to a
reference sequence if the smallest sum probability in a comparison of the test nucleic acid to
the reference nucleic acid is less than about 0.1, more preferably less than about 0.01, and
most preferably less than about 0.001.
[0150]     Other considerations affecting the selection of microorganisms for use in the
invention include, in addition to production of suitable lipids or hydrocarbons for production
of oils, fuels, and oleochemicals: (1) high lipid content as a percentage of cell weight; (2)
ease of growth; (3) ease of genetic engineering; and (4) ease of biomass processing. In
particular embodiments, the wild-type or genetically engineered microorganism yields cells
that are at least 40%, at least 45%, at least 50%, at least 55%, at least 60%, at least 65%, or at
least 70% or more lipid. Preferred organisms grow heterotrophically (on sugars in the
absence of light).
                                                 30

[0151]     Examples of algae that can be used to practice the present invention include, but are
not limited to the following algae listed in Table 1.
[0152]     Table 1. Examples of algae.
 Achnanthes orientalis, Agmenellum, Amphiprora hyaline, Amphora coffeiformis, Amphora
 coffeiformis linea, Amphora coffeiformis punctata, Amphora coffeiformis taylori, Amphora
 coffeiformis tenuis, Amphora delicatissima, Amphora delicatissima capitata, Amphora sp.,
 Anabaena, Ankistrodesmus, Ankistrodesmus falcatus, Boekelovia hooglandii, Borodinella sp.,
 Botryococcus braunii, Botryococcus sudeticus, Carteria, Chaetoceros gracilis, Chaetoceros
 muelleri, Chaetoceros muelleri subsalsum, Chaetoceros sp., Chiarella anitrata, Chiarella
 Antarctica, Chiarella aureoviridis, Chiarella candida, Chiarella capsulate, Chiarella
 desiccate, Chiarella ellipsoidea, Chiarella emersonii, Chlorellafusca, Chlorellafusca var.
 vacuolata, Chiarella glucotropha, Chiarella infusionum, Chiarella infusionum var. actophila,
 Chiarella infusionum var. auxenophila, Chiarella kessleri, Chiarella lobophora (strain SAG
 37.88), Chiarella luteoviridis, Chiarella luteoviridis var. aureoviridis, Chiarella luteoviridis
 var. lutescens, Chiarella miniata, Chiarella minutissima, Chiarella mutabilis, Chiarella
 nocturna, Chiarella parva, Chiarella photophila, Chiarella pringsheimii, Chiarella
 protothecoides (including any ofUTEX strains 1806, 411, 264, 256, 255, 250, 249, 31, 29,
 25, and CCAP strains 211117 and 211/8d), Chiarella protothecoides var. acidicola, Chiarella
 regularis, Chiarella regularis var. minima, Chiarella regularis var. umbricata, Chiarella
 reisiglii, Chiarella saccharophila, Chiarella saccharophila var. ellipsoidea, Chiarella salina,
 Chiarella simplex, Chiarella sorokiniana, Chiarella sp., Chiarella sphaerica, Chiarella
 stigmatophora, Chiarella vanniellii, Chiarella vulgaris, Chiarella vulgaris, Chiarella
 vulgaris f tertia, Chiarella vulgaris var. autotrophica, Chiarella vulgaris var. viridis,
 Chiarella vulgaris var. vulgaris, Chiarella vulgaris var. vulgaris f tertia, Chiarella vulgaris
 var. vulgaris f viridis, Chiarella xanthella, Chiarella zofingiensis, Chiarella trebouxioides,
 Chiarella vulgaris, Chlorococcum infusionum, Chlorococcum sp., Chlorogonium,
 Chroomonas sp., Chrysosphaera sp., Cricosphaera sp., Cryptomonas sp., Cyclotella cryptica,
 Cyclotella meneghiniana, Cyclotella sp., Dunaliella sp., Dunaliella bardawil, Dunaliella
 bioculata, Dunaliella granulate, Dunaliella maritime, Dunaliella minuta, Dunaliella parva,
 Dunaliella peircei, Dunaliella primolecta, Dunaliella salina, Dunaliella terricola, Dunaliella
 tertiolecta, Dunaliella viridis, Dunaliella tertiolecta, Eremosphaera viridis, Eremosphaera
 sp., Ellipsoidon sp., Euglena, Franceia sp., Fragilaria crotonensis, Fragilaria sp., Gleocapsa
 sp., Gloeothamnion sp., Hymenomonas sp., Isochrysis aff galbana, Isochrysis galbana,
                                                 31

 Lepocinclis, Micractinium, Micractinium (UTEX LB 2614 ), Monoraphidium minutum,
 Monoraphidium sp., Nannochloris sp., Nannochloropsis salina, Nannochloropsis sp.,
 Navicula acceptata, Navicula biskanterae, Navicula pseudotenelloides, Navicula pelliculosa,
 Navicula saprophila, Navicula sp., Nephrochloris sp., Nephroselmis sp., Nitschia communis,
 Nitzschia alexandrina, Nitzschia communis, Nitzschia dissipata, Nitzschiafrustulum,
 Nitzschia hantzschiana, Nitzschia inconspicua, Nitzschia intermedia, Nitzschia microcephala,
 Nitzschia pusilla, Nitzschia pusilla elliptica, Nitzschia pusilla monoensis, Nitzschia
 quadrangular, Nitzschia sp., Ochromonas sp., Oocystis parva, Oocystis pusilla, Oocystis sp.,
 Oscillatoria limnetica, Oscillatoria sp., Oscillatoria subbrevis, Pascheria acidophila,
 Pavlova sp., Phagus, Phormidium, Platymonas sp., Pleurochrysis carterae, Pleurochrysis
 dentate, Pleurochrysis sp., Prototheca wickerhamii, Prototheca stagnora, Prototheca
 portoricensis, Prototheca moriformis, Prototheca zopfii, Pyramimonas sp., Pyrobotrys,
 Sarcinoid chrysophyte, Scenedesmus armatus, Spirogyra, Spirulina platensis, Stichococcus
 sp., Synechococcus sp., Tetraedron, Tetraselmis sp., Tetraselmis suecica, Thalassiosira
 weissflo gii, and Viridie lla fridericiana
[0153]    Examples of oleaginous yeast that can be used to practice the present invention
include, but are not limited to the following oleaginous yeast listed in Table 26.
[0154]    Table 26. Examples of oleaginous yeast.
 Cryptococcus curvatus, Cryptococcus terricolus,            Candida sp., Lipomyces starkeyi,
 Lipomyces lipofer, Endomycopsis vernalis, Rhodotorula glutinis, Rhodotorula gracilis, and
 Yarrowia lipolytica
[0155]    Examples of other fungi that can be used to practice the present invention include,
but are not limited to the following fungi listed in Table 27.
[0156]    Table 27. Examples of fungi.
 Mortierella,    Mortierrla vinacea, Mortierella alpine, Pythium debaryanum, Mucor
 circinelloides,   Aspergillus ochraceus,       Aspergillus terreus,   Pennicillium    iilacinum,
 Hensenulo, Chaetomium, Cladosporium, Malbranchea, Rhizopus, and Pythium
[0157]    In some embodiments of the present invention, the microorganism is a bacterium.
Examples of expression of exogenous genes in bacteria, such as E. coli, are well known; see
                                                 32

for example Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Sambrook et al. (3d edition, 2001,
Cold Spring Harbor Press).
          2.     Bioreactor
[0158]    Microrganisms are cultured both for purposes of conducting genetic manipulations
and for production of hydrocarbons (e.g., lipids, fatty acids, aldehydes, alcohols, and
alkanes). The former type of culture is conducted on a small scale and initially, at least, under
conditions in which the starting microorganism can grow. Culture for purposes of
hydrocarbon production is usually conducted on a large scale (e.g., 10,000 L, 40,000 L,
100,000 Lor larger bioreactors) in a bioreactor. Microalgae, including Prototheca species are
typically cultured in the methods of the invention in liquid media within a bioreactor.
Typically, the bioreactor does not allow light to enter.
[0159]    The bioreactor or fermentor is used to culture oleaginous microbial cells, preferably
microalgal cells through the various phases of their physiological cycle. Bioreactors offer
many advantages for use in heterotrophic growth and propagation methods. To produce
biomass for use in food, microalgae are preferably fermented in large quantities in liquid,
such as in suspension cultures as an example. Bioreactors such as steel fermentors can
accommodate very large culture volumes (40,000 liter and greater capacity bioreactors are
used in various embodiments of the invention). Bioreactors also typically allow for the
control of culture conditions such as temperature, pH, oxygen tension, and carbon dioxide
levels. For example, bioreactors are typically configurable, for example, using ports attached
to tubing, to allow gaseous components, like oxygen or nitrogen, to be bubbled through a
liquid culture. Other culture parameters, such as the pH of the culture media, the identity and
concentration of trace elements, and other media constituents can also be more readily
manipulated using a bioreactor.
[0160]    Bioreactors can be configured to flow culture media though the bioreactor
throughout the time period during which the microalgae reproduce and increase in number. In
some embodiments, for example, media can be infused into the bioreactor after inoculation
but before the cells reach a desired density. In other instances, a bioreactor is filled with
culture media at the beginning of a culture, and no more culture media is infused after the
culture is inoculated. In other words, the microalgal biomass is cultured in an aqueous
medium for a period of time during which the microalgae reproduce and increase in number;
however, quantities of aqueous culture medium are not flowed through the bioreactor
throughout the time period. Thus in some embodiments, aqueous culture medium is not
flowed through the bioreactor after inoculation.
                                                33

[0161]     Bioreactors equipped with devices such as spinning blades and impellers, rocking
mechanisms, stir bars, means for pressurized gas infusion can be used to subject microalgal
cultures to mixing. Mixing may be continuous or intermittent. For example, in some
embodiments, a turbulent flow regime of gas entry and media entry is not maintained for
reproduction of microalgae until a desired increase in number of said microalgae has been
achieved.
[0162]    Bioreactor ports can be used to introduce, or extract, gases, solids, semisolids, and
liquids, into the bioreactor chamber containing the microalgae. While many bioreactors have
more than one port (for example, one for media entry, and another for sampling), it is not
necessary that only one substance enter or leave a port. For example, a port can be used to
flow culture media into the bioreactor and later used for sampling, gas entry, gas exit, or
other purposes. Preferably, a sampling port can be used repeatedly without altering
compromising the axenic nature of the culture. A sampling port can be configured with a
valve or other device that allows the flow of sample to be stopped and started or to provide a
means of continuous sampling. Bioreactors typically have at least one port that allows
inoculation of a culture, and such a port can also be used for other purposes such as media or
gas entry.
[0163]     Bioreactors ports allow the gas content of the culture of microalgae to be
manipulated. To illustrate, part of the volume of a bioreactor can be gas rather than liquid,
and the gas inlets of the bioreactor to allow pumping of gases into the bioreactor. Gases that
can be beneficially pumped into a bioreactor include air, air/C0 2 mixtures, noble gases, such
as argon, and other gases. Bioreactors are typically equipped to enable the user to control the
rate of entry of a gas into the bioreactor. As noted above, increasing gas flow into a
bioreactor can be used to increase mixing of the culture.
[0164]     Increased gas flow affects the turbidity of the culture as well. Turbulence can be
achieved by placing a gas entry port below the level of the aqueous culture media so that gas
entering the bioreactor bubbles to the surface of the culture. One or more gas exit ports allow
gas to escape, thereby preventing pressure buildup in the bioreactor. Preferably a gas exit port
leads to a "one-way" valve that prevents contaminating microorganisms from entering the
bioreactor.
           3.   Media
[0165]     Microalgal culture media typically contains components such as a fixed nitrogen
source, a fixed carbon source, trace elements, optionally a buffer for pH maintenance, and
phosphate (typically provided as a phosphate salt). Other components can include salts such
                                                34

as sodium chloride, particularly for seawater microalgae. Nitrogen sources include organic
and inorganic nitrogen sources, including, for example, without limitation, molecular
nitrogen, nitrate, nitrate salts, ammonia (pure or in salt form, such as, (NH4)2S04 and
NH40H), protein, soybean meal, cornsteep liquor, and yeast extract. Examples of trace
elements include zinc, boron, cobalt, copper, manganese, and molybdenum in, for example,
the respective forms of ZnCh, H3B03, C0Ch·6H20, CuCh·2H20, MnCh-4H20 and
(NH4)6Mo7024-4H20.
[0166]     Microorganisms useful in accordance with the methods of the present invention are
found in various locations and environments throughout the world. As a consequence of their
isolation from other species and their resulting evolutionary divergence, the particular growth
medium for optimal growth and generation of lipid and/or hydrocarbon constituents can be
difficult to predict. In some cases, certain strains of microorganisms may be unable to grow
on a particular growth medium because of the presence of some inhibitory component or the
absence of some essential nutritional requirement required by the particular strain of
microorganism.
[0167]     Solid and liquid growth media are generally available from a wide variety of
sources, and instructions for the preparation of particular media that is suitable for a wide
variety of strains of microorganisms can be found, for example, online at
http://www.utex.org/, a site maintained by the University of Texas at Austin, 1 University
Station A6700, Austin, Texas, 78712-0183, for its culture collection of algae (UTEX). For
example, various fresh water and salt water media include those described in PCT Pub. No.
2008/151149, incorporated herein by reference.
[0168]     In a particular example, Protease Medium is suitable for axenic cultures, and a lL
volume of the medium (pH -6.8) can be prepared by addition of lg of protease peptone to 1
liter of Bristol Medium. Bristol medium comprises 2.94 mM NaN0 3, 0.17 mM CaCh·2H20,
0.3 mM MgS0 4·7H20, 0.43 mM, 1.29 mM KH 2P0 4, and 1.43 mM NaCl in an aqueous
solution. For 1.5% agar medium, 15 g of agar can be added to 1 L of the solution. The
solution is covered and autoclaved, and then stored at a refrigerated temperature prior to use.
Another example is the Prototheca isolation medium (PIM), which comprises lOg/L
postassium hydrogen phthalate (KHP), 0.9g/L sodium hydroxide, O. lg/L magnesium sulfate,
0.2g/L potassium hydrogen phosphate, 0.3g/L ammonium chloride, lOg/L glucose O.OOlg/L
thiamine hydrochloride, 20g/L agar, 0.25g/L 5-fluorocytosine, at a pH in the range of 5.0 to
5.2 (see Pore, 1973, App. Microbiology, 26: 648-649). Other suitable media for use with the
methods of the invention can be readily identified by consulting the URL identified above, or
                                                 35

by consulting other organizations that maintain cultures of microorganisms, such as SAG,
CCAP, or CCALA. SAG refers to the Culture Collection of Algae at the University of
Gottingen (Gottingen, Germany), CCAP refers to the culture collection of algae and protozoa
managed by the Scottish Association for Marine Science (Scotland, United Kingdom), and
CCALA refers to the culture collection of algal laboratory at the Institute of Botany (Trebon,
Czech Republic). Additionally, US Patent No. 5,900,370 describes media formulations and
conditions suitable for heterotrophic fermentation of Prototheca species.
[0169]    For oil production, selection of a fixed carbon source is important, as the cost of the
fixed carbon source must be sufficiently low to make oil production economical. Thus, while
suitable carbon sources include, for example, acetate, floridoside, fructose, galactose,
glucuronic acid, glucose, glycerol, lactose, mannose, N-acetylglucosamine, rhamnose,
sucrose, and/or xylose, selection of feedstocks containing those compounds is an important
aspect of the methods of the invention. Suitable feedstocks useful in accordance with the
methods of the invention include, for example, black liquor, corn starch, depolymerized
cellulosic material, milk whey, molasses, potato, sorghum, sucrose, sugar beet, sugar cane,
rice, and wheat. Carbon sources can also be provided as a mixture, such as a mixture of
sucrose and depolymerized sugar beet pulp. The one or more carbon source(s) can be
supplied at a concentration of at least about 50 µM, at least about 100 µM, at least about 500
µM, at least about 5 mM, at least about 50 mM, and at least about 500 mM, of one or more
exogenously provided fixed carbon source(s). Carbon sources of particular interest for
purposes of the present invention include cellulose (in a depolymerized form), glycerol,
sucrose, and sorghum, each of which is discussed in more detal below.
[0170]    In accordance with the present invention, microorganisms can be cultured using
depolymerized cellulosic biomass as a feedstock. Cellulosic biomass (e.g., stover, such as
corn stover) is inexpensive and readily available; however, attempts to use this material as a
feedstock for yeast have failed. In particular, such feedstocks have been found to be
inhibitory to yeast growth, and yeast cannot use the 5-carbon sugars produced from cellulosic
materials (e.g., xylose from hemi-cellulose). By contrast, microalgae can grow on processed
cellulosic material. Cellulosic materials generally include about 40-60% cellulose; about 20-
40% hemicellulose; and 10-30% lignin.
[0171]    Suitable cellulosic materials include residues from herbaceous and woody energy
crops, as well as agricultural crops, i.e., the plant parts, primarily stalks and leaves, not
removed from the fields with the primary food or fiber product. Examples include
                                                  36

agricultural wastes such as sugarcane bagasse, rice hulls, corn fiber (including stalks, leaves,
husks, and cobs), wheat straw, rice straw, sugar beet pulp, citrus pulp, citrus peels; forestry
wastes such as hardwood and softwood thinnings, and hardwood and softwood residues from
timber operations; wood wastes such as saw mill wastes (wood chips, sawdust) and pulp mill
waste; urban wastes such as paper fractions of municipal solid waste, urban wood waste and
urban green waste such as municipal grass clippings; and wood construction waste.
Additional cellulosics include dedicated cellulosic crops such as switchgrass, hybrid poplar
wood, and miscanthus, fiber cane, and fiber sorghum. Five-carbon sugars that are produced
from such materials include xylose.
[0172]     Cellulosic materials are treated to increase the efficiency with which the microbe
can utilize the sugar(s) contained within the materials. The invention provides novel methods
for the treatment of cellulosic materials after acid explosion so that the materials are suitable
for use in a heterotrophic culture of microbes (e.g., microalgae and oleaginous yeast). As
discussed above, lignocellulosic biomass is comprised of various fractions, including
cellulose, a crystalline polymer of beta 1,4 linked glucose (a six-carbon sugar), hemicellulose,
a more loosely associated polymer predominantly comprised of xylose (a five-carbon sugar)
and to a lesser extent mannose, galactose, arabinose, lignin, a complex aromatic polymer
comprised of sinapyl alcohol and its derivatives, and pectins, which are linear chains of an
alpha 1,4 linked polygalacturonic acid. Because of the polymeric structure of cellulose and
hemicellulose, the sugars (e.g., monomeric glucose and xylose) in them are not in a form that
can be efficiently used (metabolized) by many microbes. For such microbes, further
processing of the cellulosic biomass to generate the monomeric sugars that make up the
polymers can be very helpful to ensuring that the cellulosic materials are efficiently utilized
as a feedstock (carbon source).
[0173]     Celluose or cellulosic biomass is subjected to a process, termed "explosion", in
which the biomass is treated with dilute sulfuric (or other) acid at elevated temperature and
pressure. This process conditions the biomass such that it can be efficiently subjected to
enzymatic hydrolysis of the cellulosic and hemicellulosic fractions into glucose and xylose
monomers. The resulting monomeric sugars are termed cellulosic sugars. Cellulosic sugars
can subsequently be utilized by microorganisms to produce a variety of metabolites (e.g.,
lipid). The acid explosion step results in a partial hydrolysis of the hemicellulose fraction to
constitutent monosaccharides. These sugars can be completely liberated from the biomass
with further treatment. In some embodiments, the further treatment is a hydrothermal
treatment that includes washing the exploded material with hot water, which removes
                                                 37

contaminants such as salts. This step is not necessary for cellulosic ethanol fermentations
due to the more dilute sugar concentrations used in such processes. In other embodiments, the
further treatment is additional acid treatment. In still other embodiments, the further treatment
is enzymatic hydrolysis of the exploded material. These treatments can also be used in any
combination. The type of treatment can affect the type of sugars liberated (e.g., five carbon
sugars versus six carbon sugars) and the stage at which they are liberated in the process. As a
consequence, different streams of sugars, whether they are predominantly five-carbon or six-
carbon, can be created. These enriched five-carbon or six-carbon streams can thus be directed
to specific microorganisms with different carbon utilization cabilities.
[0174]    The methods of the present invention typically involve fermentation to higher cell
densities than what is achieved in ethanol fermentation. Because of the higher densities of
the cultures for heterotrophic cellulosic oil production, the fixed carbon source (e.g., the
cellulosic derived sugar stream(s)) is preferably in a concentrated form. The glucose level of
the depolymerized cellulosic material is preferably at least 300 g/liter, at least 400 g/liter, at
least 500 g/liter or at least 600 g/liter prior to the cultivation step, which is optionally a fed
batch cultivation in which the material is fed to the cells over time as the cells grow and
accumulate lipid. Cellulosic sugar streams are not used at or near this concentration range in
the production of cellulosic ethanol. Thus, in order to generate and sustain the very high cell
densities during the production of lignocellulosic oil, the carbon feedstock(s) must be
delivered into the heterotrophic cultures in a highly concentrated form. However, any
component in the feedstream that is not a substrate for, and is not metabolized by, the
oleaginous microorganism will accumulate in the bioreactor, which can lead to problems if
the component is toxic or inhibitory to production of the desired end product. While ligin and
lignin-derived by-products, carbohydrate-derived byproducts such as furfurals and
hydroxymethyl furfurals and salts derived from the generation of the cellulosic materials
(both in the explosion process and the subsequent neutralization process), and even non-
metabolized pentose/hexose sugars can present problems in ethanolic fermentations, these
effects are amplified significantly in a process in which their concentration in the initial
feedstock is high. To achieve sugar concentrations in the 300g/L range (or higher) for six-
carbon sugars that may be used in large scale production of lignocellulosic oil described in
the present invention, the concentration of these toxic materials can be 20 times higher than
the concentrations typically present in ethanolic fermentations of cellulosic biomass.
[0175]    The explosion process treatment of the cellulosic material utilizes significant
amounts of sulfuric acid, heat and pressure, thereby liberating by-products of carbohydrates,
                                                   38

namely furfurals and hydroxymethyl furfurals. Furfurals and hydroxymethyl furfurals are
produced during hydrolysis of hemicellulose through dehydration of xylose into furfural and
water. In some embodiments of the present invention, these by-products (e.g., furfurals and
hydroxymethyl furfurals) are removed from the saccharified lignocellulosic material prior to
introduction into the bioreactor. In certain embodiments of the present invention, the process
for removal of the by-products of carbohydrates is hydrothermal treatment of the exploded
cellulosic materials. In addition, the present invention provides methods in which strains
capable of tolerating compounds such as furfurals or hydroxymethyl furfurals are used for
lignocellulosic oil production. In another embodiment, the present invention also provides
methods and microorganisms that are not only capable of tolerating furfurals in the
fermentation media, but are actually able to metabolize these by-products during the
production of lignocellulosic oil.
[0176]     The explosion process also generates significant levels of salts. For example, typical
conditions for explosion can result in conductivites in excess of 5 mS/cm when the exploded
cellulosic biomass is resuspended at a ratio of 10:1 water:solids (dry weight). In certain
embodiments of the present invention, the diluted exploded biomass is subjected to
enzymatic saccharification, and the resulting supernatant is concentrated up to 25 fold for use
in the bioreactor. The salt level (as measured by conductivity) in the concentrated sugar
stream(s) can be unacceptably high (up to 1.5 M Na+ equivalents). Additional salts are
generated upon neutralization of the exploded materials for the subsequent enzymatic
saccharification process as well. The present invention provides methods for removing these
salts so that the resulting concentrated cellulosic sugar stream(s) can be used in heterotrophic
processes for producing lignocellulosic oil. In some embodiments, the method of removing
these salts is deionization with resins, such as, but not limited to, DOWEX Marathon MR3.
In certain embodiments, the deionization with resin step occurs before sugar concentration or
pH adjustment and hydrothermal treatment of biomass prior to saccharification, or any
combination of the preceding; in other embodiments, the step is conducted after one or more
of these processes. In other embodiments, the explosion process itself is changed so as to
avoid the generation of salts at unacceptably high levels. For example, a suitable alternative
to sulfuric acid (or other acid) explosion of the cellulosic biomass is mechanical pulping to
render the cellulosic biomass receptive to enzymatic hydrolysis (saccharification). In still
other embodiments, native strains of microorganisms resistant to high levels of salts or
genetically engineered strains with resistance to high levels of salts are used.
                                                 39

[0177]    A preferred embodiment for the process of preparing of exploded cellulosic biomass
for use in heterotrophic lignocellulosic oil production using oleaginous microbes. A first step
comprises adjusting the pH of the resuspended exploded cellulosic biomass to the range of
5.0-5.3 followed by washing the cellulosic biomass three times. This washing step can be
accomplished by a variety of means including the use of desalting and ion exchange resins,
reverse omosis, hydrothermal treatment (as described above), or just repeated re-suspension
and centrifugation in deionized water. This wash step results in a cellulosic stream whose
conductivity is between 100-300 µSiem and the removal of significant amounts of furfurals
and hydroxymethyl furfurals. Decants from this wash step can be saved to concentrate five-
carbon sugars liberated from the hemicellulose fraction. A second step comprises enzymatic
saccharification of the washed cellulosic biomass. In a preferred embodiment, Accellerase
(Genencor) is used. A third step comprises the recovery of sugars via centrifugation or
decanting and rinsing of the saccharified biomass. The resulting biomass (solids) is an energy
dense, lignin rich component that can be used as fuel or sent to waste. The recovered sugar
stream in the centrifugation/decanting and rinse process is collected. A fourth step comprises
microfiltration to remove contaminating solids with recovery of the permeate. A fifth step
comprises a concentration step which can be accomplished using a vacuum evaporator. This
step can optionally include the addition of antifoam agents such as P'2000 (Sigma/Fluka),
which is sometimes necessary due to the protein content of the resulting sugar feedstock.
[0178]    In another embodiment of the methods of the invention, the carbon source is
glycerol, including acidulated and non-acidulated glycerol byproduct from biodiesel
transesterification. In one embodiment, the carbon source includes glycerol and at least one
other carbon source. In some cases, all of the glycerol and the at least one other fixed carbon
source are provided to the microorganism at the beginning of the fermentation. In some
cases, the glycerol and the at least one other fixed carbon source are provided to the
microorganism simultaneously at a predetermined ratio. In some cases, the glycerol and the
at least one other fixed carbon source are fed to the microbes at a predetermined rate over the
course of fermentation.
[0179]    Some microalgae undergo cell division faster in the presence of glycerol than in the
presence of glucose (see PCT Pub. No. 2008/151149). In these instances, two-stage growth
processes in which cells are first fed glycerol to rapidly increase cell density, and are then fed
glucose to accumulate lipids can improve the efficiency with which lipids are produced. The
use of the glycerol byproduct of the transesterification process provides significant economic
advantages when put back into the production process. Other feeding methods are provided
                                                 40

as well, such as mixtures of glycerol and glucose. Feeding such mixtures also captures the
same economic benefits. In addition, the invention provides methods of feeding alternative
sugars to microalgae such as sucrose in various combinations with glycerol.
[0180]    In another embodiment of the methods of the invention, the carbon source is invert
sugar. Invert sugar is produced by splitting the sucrose into its monosaccharide components,
fructose and glucose. Production of invert sugar can be achieved through several methods
that are known in the art. One such method is heating an aqueous solution of sucrose. Often,
catalysts are employed in order to accelerate the conversion of sucrose into invert sugar.
These catalysts can be biological, for example enzymes such as invertases and sucrases can
be added to the sucrose to accelerate the hydrolysis reaction to produce invert sugar. Acid is
an example of non-biological catalyst, when paired with heat, can accelerate the hydrolysis
reaction. Once the invert sugar is made, it is less prone to crystallization compared to sucrose
and thus, provides advantages for storage and in fed batch fermentation, which in the case of
heterotrophic cultivation of microbes, including microalgae, there is a need for concentrated
carbon source. In one embodiment, the carbon source is invert sugar, preferably in a
concentrated form, preferably at least 800g/liter, at least 900 g/liter, at least 1000 g/liter or at
least 1100 g/liter prior to the cultivation step, which is optionally a fed batch cultivation. The
invert sugar, preferably in a concentrated form, is fed to the cells over time as the cells grow
and accumulate lipid.
[0181]    In another embodiment of the methods of the invention, the carbon source is
sucrose, including a complex feedstock containing sucrose, such as thick cane juice from
sugar cane processing. Because of the higher densities of the cultures for heterotrophic oil
production, the fixed carbon source (e.g., sucrose, glucose, etc.) is preferably in a
concentrated form, preferably at least 500 g/liter, at least 600 g/liter, at least 700 g/liter or at
least 800 g/liter of the fixed carbon source prior to the cultivation step, which is optionally a
fed batch cultivation in which the material is fed to the cells over time as the cells grow and
accumulate lipid. In the some cases, the carbon source is sucrose in the form of thick cane
juice, preferably in a concentrated form, preferably at least 60% solids or about 770 g/liter
sugar, at least 70% solids or about 925 g/liter sugar, or at least 80% solids or about 1125
g/liter sugar prior to the cultivation step, which is optionally a fed batch cultivation. The
concentrated thick cane juice is fed to the cells over time as the cells grow and accumulate
lipid.
[0182]    In one embodiment, the culture medium further includes at least one sucrose
utilization enzyme. In some cases, the culture medium includes a sucrose invertase. In one
                                                  41

embodiment, the sucrose invertase enzyme is a secrectable sucrose invertase enzyme encoded
by an exogenous sucrose invertase gene expressed by the population of microorganisms.
Thus, in some cases, as described in more detail in Section IV, below, the microalgae has
been genetically engineered to express a sucrose utilization enzyme, such as a sucrose
transporter, a sucrose invertase, a hexokinase, a glucokinase, or a fructokinase.
[0183]    Complex feedstocks containing sucrose include waste molasses from sugar cane
processing; the use of this low-value waste product of sugar cane processing can provide
significant cost savings in the production of hydrocarbons and other oils. Another complex
feedstock containing sucrose that is useful in the methods of the invention is sorghum,
including sorghum syrup and pure sorghum. Sorghum syrup is produced from the juice of
sweet sorghum cane. Its sugar profile consists of mainly glucose (dextrose), fructose and
sucrose.
          4.     Oil production
[0184]    For the production of oil in accordance with the methods of the invention, it is
preferable to culture cells in the dark, as is the case, for example, when using extremely large
(40,000 liter and higher) fermentors that do not allow light to strike the culture. Prototheca
species are grown and propagated for the production of oil in a medium containing a fixed
carbon source and in the absence of light; such growth is known as heterotrophic growth.
[0185]    As an example, an inoculum of lipid-producing oleaginous microbial cells,
preferably microalgal cells are introduced into the medium; there is a lag period (lag phase)
before the cells begin to propagate. Following the lag period, the propagation rate increases
steadily and enters the log, or exponential, phase. The exponential phase is in turn followed
by a slowing of propagation due to decreases in nutrients such as nitrogen, increases in toxic
substances, and quorum sensing mechanisms. After this slowing, propagation stops, and the
cells enter a stationary phase or steady growth state, depending on the particular environment
provided to the cells. For obtaining lipid rich biomass, the culture is typically harvested well
after then end of the exponential phase, which may be terminated early by allowing nitrogen
or another key nutrient (other than carbon) to become depleted, forcing the cells to convert
the carbon sources, present in excess, to lipid. Culture condition parameters can be
manipulated to optimize total oil production, the combination of lipid species produced,
and/or production of a specific oil.
[0186]    As discussed above, a bioreactor or fermentor is used to allow cells to undergo the
various phases of their growth cycle. As an example, an inoculum of lipid-producing cells
can be introduced into a medium followed by a lag period (lag phase) before the cells begin
                                                  42

growth. Following the lag period, the growth rate increases steadily and enters the log, or
exponential, phase. The exponential phase is in turn followed by a slowing of growth due to
decreases in nutrients and/or increases in toxic substances. After this slowing, growth stops,
and the cells enter a stationary phase or steady state, depending on the particular environment
provided to the cells. Lipid production by cells disclosed herein can occur during the log
phase or thereafter, including the stationary phase wherein nutrients are supplied, or still
available, to allow the continuation of lipid production in the absence of cell division.
[0187]     Preferably, microorganisms grown using conditions described herein and known in
the art comprise at least about 20% by weight of lipid, preferably at least about 40% by
weight, more preferably at least about 50% by weight, and most preferably at least about 60%
by weight. Process conditions can be adjusted to increase the yield of lipids suitable for a
particular use and/or to reduce production cost. For example, in certain embodiments, a
microalgae is cultured in the presence of a limiting concentration of one or more nutrients,
such as, for example, nitrogen, phosphorous, or sulfur, while providing an excess of fixed
carbon energy such as glucose. Nitrogen limitation tends to increase microbial lipid yield
over microbial lipid yield in a culture in which nitrogen is provided in excess. In particular
embodiments, the increase in lipid yield is at least about: 10%, 50%, 100%, 200%, or 500%.
The microbe can be cultured in the presence of a limiting amount of a nutrient for a portion of
the total culture period or for the entire period. In particular embodiments, the nutrient
concentration is cycled between a limiting concentration and a non-limiting concentration at
least twice during the total culture period. Lipid content of cells can be increased by
continuing the culture for increased periods of time while providing an excess of carbon, but
limiting or no nitrogen.
[0188]     In another embodiment, lipid yield is increased by culturing a lipid-producing
microbe (e.g., microalgae) in the presence of one or more cofactor(s) for a lipid pathway
enzyme (e.g., a fatty acid synthetic enzyme). Generally, the concentration of the cofactor(s) is
sufficient to increase microbial lipid (e.g., fatty acid) yield over microbial lipid yield in the
absence of the cofactor(s). In a particular embodiment, the cofactor(s) are provided to the
culture by including in the culture a microbe (e.g., microalgae) containing an exogenous gene
encoding the cofactor(s). Alternatively, cofactor(s) may be provided to a culture by including
a microbe (e.g., microalgae) containing an exogenous gene that encodes a protein that
participates in the synthesis of the cofactor. In certain embodiments, suitable cofactors
include any vitamin required by a lipid pathway enzyme, such as, for example: biotin,
pantothenate. Genes encoding cofactors suitable for use in the invention or that participate in
                                                  43

the synthesis of such cofactors are well known and can be introduced into microbes (e.g.,
microalgae), using contructs and techniques such as those described above.
[0189]     The specific examples of bioreactors, culture conditions, and heterotrophic growth
and propagation methods described herein can be combined in any suitable manner to
improve efficiencies of microbial growth and lipid and/or protein production.
[0190]     Microalgal biomass with a high percentage of oil/lipid accumulation by dry weight
has been generated using different methods of culture, which are known in the art (see PCT
Pub. No. 2008/151149). Microalgal biomass generated by the culture methods described
herein and useful in accordance with the present invention comprises at least 10% microalgal
oil by dry weight. In some embodiments, the microalgal biomass comprises at least 25%, at
least 50%, at least 55%, or at least 60% microalgal oil by dry weight. In some embodiments,
the microalgal biomass contains from 10-90% microalgal oil, from 25-75% microalgal oil,
from 40-75% microalgal oil, or from 50-70% microalgal oil by dry weight.
[0191]     The microalgal oil of the biomass described herein, or extracted from the biomass
for use in the methods and compositions of the present invention can comprise glycerolipids
with one or more distinct fatty acid ester side chains. Glycerolipids are comprised of a
glycerol molecule esterified to one, two or three fatty acid molecules, which can be of
varying lengths and have varying degrees of saturation. The length and saturation
characteristics of the fatty acid molecules (and the microalgal oils) can be manipulated to
modify the properties or proportions of the fatty acid molecules in the microalgal oils of the
present invention via culture conditions or via lipid pathway engineering, as described in
more detail in Section IV, below. Thus, specific blends of algal oil can be prepared either
within a single species of algae by mixing together the biomass or algal oil from two or more
species of microalgae, or by blending algal oil of the invention with oils from other sources
such as soy, rapeseed, canola, palm, palm kernel, coconut, corn, waste vegetable, Chinese
tallow, olive, sunflower, cottonseed, chicken fat, beef tallow, porcine tallow, microalgae,
macroalgae, microbes, Cuphea, flax, peanut, choice white grease, lard, Camelina sativa,
mustard seed, cashew nut, oats, lupine, kenaf, calendula, help, coffee, linseed (flax), hazelnut,
euphorbia, pumpkin seed, coriander, camellia, sesame, safflower, rice, tung tree, cocoa,
copra, pium poppy, castor beans, pecan, jojoba, macadamia, Brazil nuts, avocado, petroleum,
or a distillate fraction of any of the preceding oils.
[0192]     The oil composition, i.e., the properties and proportions of the fatty acid
consitutents of the glycerolipids, can also be manipulated by combining biomass or oil from
at least two distinct species of microalgae. In some embodiments, at least two of the distinct
                                                 44

species of microalgae have different glycerolipid profiles. The distinct species of microalgae
can be cultured together or separately as described herein, preferably under heterotrophic
conditions, to generate the respective oils. Different species of microalgae can contain
different percentages of distinct fatty acid consituents in the cell's glycerolipids.
[0193]     Generally, Prototheca strains have very little or no fatty acids with the chain length
C8-C14. For example, Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435), Prototheca krugani (UTEX
329), Prototheca stagnora (UTEX 1442) and Prototheca zopfii (UTEX 1438) contains no (or
undectable amounts) C8 fatty acids, between 0-0.01 % ClO fatty acids, between 0.03-2.1 %
C12 fatty acids and between 1.0-1.7% C14 fatty acids.
[0194]     In some cases, the Prototheca strains containing a transgene encoding a fatty acyl-
ACP thioesterase that has activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrate of chain lengths C8 or
C8-10 has at least 1%, at least 1.5%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least
10%, at least 12%, or at least 15% or more, fatty acids of chain length C8. In other
instances, the Prototheca strains containing a transgene encoding a fatty acyl ACP
thioesterase that has activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrate of chain lengths ClO has at
least at least 1%, at least 5%, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least 24%, or at least
25% or more, fatty acids of chain length ClO. In other instances, the Prototheca strains
containing a transgene encoding a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase that has activity towards fatty
acyl-ACP substrate of chain length C12 has at least 1%, at least 5%, at least 10%, at least
15%, at least 20%, at least 25%, at least 30%, at least 34%, at least 35% or at least 40% or
more, fatty acids of the chain length C 12. In other cases, the Proto thee a strains containing a
transgene encoding a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase that has activity towards fatty acyl-ACP
substrate of chain length C14 has at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least
5%, at least 6%, at least 7%, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 30%, at least 43%, or at least
45% or more, fatty acids of the chain length C14.
[0195]     In non-limiting examples, the Prototheca strains containing a transgene encoding a
fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase that has activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrate of chain length
C8 has between 1%-25%, or between 1%-15%, preferably 1.8-12.29%, fatty acids of chain
length C8. In other non-limiting examples, Prototheca strains containing a transgene
encoding a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase that has activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrate of
chain length ClO has between 1%-50%, or between 1%-25%, preferably 1.91-23.97% fatty
acids of chain length ClO. In other non-limiting examples, Prototheca strains containing a
transgene encoding a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase that has activity towards fatty acyl-ACP
substrate of chain length C12 has between 5%-50%, or between 10%-40, preferably 13.55-
                                                 45

34.01 %, fatty acids of the chain length Cl2. In other non-limiting examples, Prototheca
strains containing a transgene encoding a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase that has activity
towards fatty acyl-ACP substrate of chain length C14 has between 1%-60%, or between 2%-
45%, preferably 2.59-43.27 %, fatty acids of the chain length C14. In other non-limiting
examples, Prototheca strains containing a transgene encoding a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase
that has broad specificity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrates of varying carbon chain length
has up to 30%, up to 35%, or preferably up to 39.45% fatty acids of the chain length C16. In
some cases, the Prototheca strains containing a transgene encoding a fatty acyl-ACP
thioesterase that has activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrate of chain lengths between C8
and C14 have between 1%-75%, or between 2%-60%, preferably 2.69- 57.98%, medium
chain (C8-Cl4) fatty acids. In some cases, the Prototheca strains containing a transgene
encoding a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase that has activity towards fatty acyl-ACP substrates of
chain lengths between C12 and C14 have at least 30%, at least 40%, or at least 49% C12-C14
fatty acids. In some instances, keeping the transgenic Prototheca strains under constant and
high selective pressure to retain exogenous genes is advantageous due to the increase in the
desired fatty acid of a specific chain length. High levels of exogenous gene retention can also
be achieved by inserting exogenous genes into the nuclear chromosomes of the cells using
homologous recombination vectors and methods disclosed herein. Recombinant cells
containing exogenous genes integrated into nuclear chromosomes are an object of the
invention.
[0196]    Microalgal oil can also include other constituents produced by the microalgae, or
incorporated into the microalgal oil from the culture medium. These other constituents can be
present in varying amount depending on the culture conditions used to culture the microalgae,
the species of microalgae, the extraction method used to recover microalgal oil from the
biomass and other factors that may affect microalgal oil composition. Non-limiting examples
of such constituents include carotenoids, present from 0.01-0.5 mcg/g, 0.025-0.3 mcg/g,
preferably 0.05 to 0.244 micrograms/gram, of oil; chlorophyll A present from 0.01-0.5
mcg/g, 0.025-0.3 mcg/g, preferably 0.045 to 0.268 micrograms/gram, of oil; total chlorophyll
of less than 0.1 mcg/g, less than 0.05 mcg/g, preferably less than 0.025 micrograms/gram, of
oil; gamma tocopherol present from 1-300 mcg/g, 35-175 mcg/g, preferably 38.3-164
micrograms/gram, of oil; total tocopherols present from 10-500 mcg/g, 50-300 mcg/g,
preferably 60.8 to 261.7 microgram/gram, of oil; less than 1%, less than 0.5%, preferably less
than 0.25% brassicasterol, campesterol, stigmasterol, or betasitosterol; total tocotrienols less
than 400 mcg/g, preferably less than 300 micrograms/gram, of oil; or total tocotrienols
                                                46

present from 100-500 mcg/g, 225-350 mcg/g, preferably 249.6 to 325.3 micrograms/gram, of
oil.
[0197]     The other constituents can include, without limitation, phospholipids, tocopherols,
tocotrienols, carotenoids (e.g., alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, lycopene, etc.), xanthophylls
(e.g., lutein, zeaxanthin, alpha-cryptoxanthin and beta-crytoxanthin), and various organic or
inorganic compounds. In some cases, the oil extracted from Prototheca species comprises
between0.001-0.01 mcg/g, 0.0025-0.05 mcg/g, preferably 0.003 to 0.039 microgram
lutein/gram, of oil, less than 0.01 mcg/g, less than 0.005 mcg/g, preferably less than 0.003
micrograms lycopene/gram, of oil; and less than 0.01 mcg/g, less than 0.005 mcg/g,
preferably less than 0.003 microgram beta carotene/gram, of oil.
[0198]     In some embodiments, the present invention provides an oleaginous microbial cell
comprising a triglyceride oil, wherein the fatty acid profile of the triglyceride oil is selected
from the group consisting of: at least about 1%, at least about 2%, at least about 5%, at least
about 7%, at least about 10%, or at least about 15%, C8:0; at least about 1%, at least about
5%, at least about 15%, at least about 20%, at least about 25%, or at least about 30%, ClO:O;
at least about 1%, at least about 5%, at least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about
20%, at least about 25%, at least about 30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least
about 45%, at least about 50%, at least about 55%, at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at
least about 70%, at least about 75%, or at least about 80%, C12:0; at least about 2%, at least
about 5%, at least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at
least about 30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least about 45%, or at least about
50%, C14:0; at least about 30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least about 45%, at
least about 50%, at least about 55%, at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at least about
70%, at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, or at least about 90%, C16:0;
at least about 5%, at least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about 20%, at least about
25%, at least about 30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least about 45%, or at
least about 50%, C18:0; at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at least about 70%, at least
about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, or at least about 90%, C18:1; less than
about 7%, less than about 5%, less than about 3%, less than about 1%, or about 0%, C18:2;
and at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least about 45%, at least about 50%, at least
about 55%, at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at least about 70%, at least about 75%, at
least about 80%, at least about 85%, or at least about 90%, saturated fatty acids.
[0199]     In some embodiments, the oleaginous microbial cell comprises triglyceride oil
comprising a fatty acid profile selected from the group consisting of: total combined amounts
                                                47

of C8:0 and ClO:O of at least about 10%, at least about 20%, at least about 30%, at least about
40%, at least about 50%, at least about 60%, at least about 70%, at least about 80%, at least
about 90%, or about 100%; total combined amounts of ClO:O, Cl2:0, and Cl4:0 of at least
about 50%, at least about 60%, at least about 70%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, or
about 100%; total combined amounts of Cl6:0, Cl8:0 and Cl8:1 of at least about 60%, at
least about 70%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, or about 100%; total combined
amounts of Cl8:0, Cl8:1 and Cl8:2 of at least about 60%, at least about 70%, at least about
80%, at least about 90%, or about 100%; total combined amounts of Cl4:0, Cl6:0, Cl8:0 and
Cl8: 1 of at least about 60%, at least about 70s%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, or
about 100%; and total combined amounts of Cl8:1 and Cl8:2 of less than about 30%, less
than about 25%, less than about 20%, less than about 15%, less than about 10%, less than
about 5%, or about 0%,
[0200]     In some embodiments, the oleaginous microbial cell comprises triglyceride oil
having a fatty acid profile comprising a ratio of fatty acids selected from the group consisting
of: a C8:0 to ClO:O ratio of at least about 5 to 1, at least 6 to 1, at least 7 to 1, at least 8 to 1,
at least 9 to 1, or at least 10 to 1; a ClO:O to C12:0 ratio of at least about 6 to 1, at least 7 to 1,
at least 8 to 1, at least 9 to 1, or at least 10 to 1; a C12:0 to C14:0 ratio of at least about 5 to 1,
at least 6 to 1, at least 7 to 1, at least 8 to 1, at least 9 to 1, or at least 10 to 1; a C14:0 to
C12:0 ratio of at least 7 to 1, at least 8 to 1, at least 9 to 1, or at least 10 to 1; and a C14:0 to
C16:0 ratio of at least 1to2, at least 1 to 3, at least 1 to 4, at least 1 to 5, at leasdt 1 to 6, at
least 1 to 7, at least 1 to 8, at least 1 to 9, or at least 1 to 10.
[0201]     In some embodiments, the present invention provides an oleaginous microbial
triglyceride oil composition, wherein the fatty acid profile of the triglyceride oil is selected
from the group consisting of: at least about 1%, at least about 2%, at least about 5%, at least
about 7%, at least about 10%, or at least about 15%, C8:0; at least about 1%, at least about
5%, at least about 15%, at least about 20%, at least about 25%, or at least about 30% ClO:O;
at least about 1%, at least about 5%, at least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about
20%, at least about 25%, at least about 30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least
about 45%, at least about 50%, at least about 55%, at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at
least about 70%, at least about 75%, or at least about 80%, C12:0; at least about 2%, at least
about 5%, at least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at
least about 30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least about 45%, or at least about
50%, C14:0; at least about 30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least about 45%, at
least about 50%, at least about 55%, at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at least about
                                                     48

70%, at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, or at least about 90%, C16:0;
at least about 5%, at least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about 20%, at least about
25%, at least about 30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least about 45%, or at
least about 50%, C18:0; at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at least about 70%, at least
about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, or at least about 90%, C18:1; less than
about 7%, less than about 5%, less than about 3%, less than about 1%, or about 0%, C18:2;
and at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least about 45%, at least about 50%, at least
about 55%, at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at least about 70%, at least about 75%, at
least about 80%, at least about 85%, or at least about 90%, saturated fatty acids.
[0202]     In some embodiments, the oleaginous microbial triglyceride oil composition
comprises triglyceride oil comprising a fatty acid profile in which: the total combined amount
of ClO:O, C12:0 and C14:0 is at least about 50%, at least bout 60%, at least about 70%, at
least about 80%, at least about 90%, or about 100%; the total combined amount of C16:0,
C18:0 and C18:1 is at least about 60%, at least about 70%, at least about 80%, at least about
90%, or about 100%; the total combined amount of C18:0, C18:1 and C18:2 is at least about
60%, at least about 70%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, or about 100%; the total
combined amount of C14:0, C16:0, C18:0 and C18:1 is at least about 60%, at least about
70%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, or about 100%; the total combined amounts of
C8:0 and ClO:O is less than about 50%, less than about 45%, less than about 40%, less than
about 35%, less than about 30%, less than about 25%, less than about 20%, less than about
15%, less than about 10%, less than about 5%, or about 0%.
[0203]     In some embodiments, the oleaginous microbial triglyceride oil composition
comprises triglyceride oil having a fatty acid profile comprising a ratio of fatty acids selected
from the group consisting of: a C8:0 to ClO:O ratio of at least about 5 to 1, at least about 6 to
1, at least about 7 to 1, at least about 8 to 1, at least about 9 to 1, or at least about 10 to 1; a
ClO:O to C12:0 ratio of at least about 6 to 1, at least about 7 to 1, at least about 8 to 1, at least
about 9 to 1, or at least about 10 to 1; a C12:0 to C14:0 ratio of at least about 5 to 1, at least
about 6 to 1, at least about 7 to 1, at least about 8 to 1, at least about 9 to 1, or at least about
10 to 1; a C14:0 to C12:0 ratio of at least about 7 to 1, at least about 8 to 1, at least about 9 to
1, or at least about 10 to 1; a C14:0 to C16:0 ratio of at least about 1to2, at least about 1to3,
at least about 1to4, at least about 1 to 5, at least about 1 to 6, at least about 1 to 7, at least
about 1 to 8, at least about 1 to 9, or at least about 1 to 10.
[0204]     In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method of producing an
oleaginous microbial triglyceride oil composition having a fatty acid profile selected from the
                                                   49

group consisting of: at least about 1%, at least about 2%, at least about 5%, at least about 7%,
at least about 10%, or at least about 15%, C8:0; at least about 1%, at least about 5%, at least
about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about 20%, at least about 25%, or at least about 30%,
ClO:O; at least about 1%, at least about 5%, at least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least
about 20%, at least about 25%, at least about 30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at
least about 45%, at least about 50%, at least about 55%, at least about 60%, at least about
65%, at least about 70%, at least about 75%, or at least about 80%, Cl2:0; at least about 2%,
at least about 5%, at least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about 20%, at least about
25%, at least about 30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least about 45%, or at
least about 50%, Cl4:0; at least about 30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least
about 45%, at least about 50%, at least about 55%, at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at
least about 70%, at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, or at least about
90%, Cl6:0; at least about 5%, at least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about 20%, at
least about 25%, at least about 30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least about
45%, or at least about 50% Cl8:0; at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at least about 70%,
at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, or at least about 90%, Cl8:1; less
than about 7%, less than about 5%, less than about 3%, less than about 1%, or about 0%,
Cl8:2; and at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least about 45%, at least about 50%, at
least about 55%, at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at least about 70%, at least about
75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, or at least about 90%, saturated fatty acids,
wherein the method comprises the steps of: (a) cultivating a population of oleaginous
microbial cells in a culture medium until at least 10% of the dry cell weight of the oleaginous
microbial cells is triglyceride oil; and (b) isolating the triglyceride oil composition from the
oleaginous microbial cells.
[0205]    In some embodiments, the method of producing oleaginous microbial triglyceride
oil compositions yields triglyceride oils comprising a fatty acid profile in which: the total
combined amount of ClO:O, C12:0 and C14:0 is at least about 50%, at least about 60%, at
least about 70%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, or about 100%; the total combined
amount of C16:0, C18:0 and C18:1 is at least about 60%, at least about 70%, at least about
80%, at least about 90%, or about 100%; the total combined amount of C18:0, C18:1 and
C18:2 is at least about 60%, at least about 70%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, or
about 100%; the total combined amount of C14:0, C16:0, C18:0 and C18:1 is at least about
60%, at least about 70%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, or about 100%; the total
combined amount of C8:0 and ClO:O is less than about 50%, less than about 45%, less than
                                                  50

about 40%, less than about 35%, less than about 30%, less than about 25%, less than about
20%, less than about 15%, less than about 10%, less than about 5%, or about 0%.
[0206]     In some embodiments, the method of producing oleaginous microbial triglyceride
oil compositions yields triglyceride oils having a fatty acid profile comprising a ratio of
triglyceride oils selected from the group consisting of: a C8:0 to ClO:O ratio of at least about
5 to 1, at least about 6 to 1, at least about 7 to 1, at least about 8 to 1, at least about 9 to 1, or
at least about 10 to 1; a ClO:O to C12:0 ratio of at least about 6 to 1, at least about 7 to 1, at
least about 8 to 1, at least about 9 to 1, or at least about 10 to 1; a C12:0 to C14:0 ratio of at
least about 5 to 1, at least about 6 to 1, at least about 7 to 1, at least about 8 to 1, at least about
9 to 1, or at least about 10 to 1; a C14:0 to C12:0 ratio of at least about 7 to 1, at least about 8
to 1, at least about 9 to 1, or at least about 10 to 1; and a C14:0 to C16:0 ratio of at least about
1 to 2, at least about 1 to 3, at least about 1 to 4, at least about 1 to 5, at least about 1 to 6, at
least about 1to7, at least about 1 to 8, at least about 1to9, or at least about 1to10.
III.       GENETIC ENGINEERING METHODS AND MATERIALS
[0207]     The present invention provides methods and materials for genentically modifying
microorganisms, including Prototheca cells and recombinant host cells, useful in the methods
of the present invention, including but not limited to recombinant Protatheca marifarmis,
Protatheca zopfii, Protatheca krugani, and Protatheca stagnara host cells. The description of
these methods and materials is divided into subsections for the convenience of the reader. In
subsection 1, transformation methods are described. In subsection 2, genetic engineering
methods using homologous recombination are described. In subsection 3, expression vectors
and components are described.
[0208]     In certain embodiments of the present invention it is desirable to genentically
modify a microorganism to enhance lipid production, modify the properties or proportions of
components generated by the microorganism, or to improve or provide de novo growth
characteristics on a variety of feedstock materials. Chiarella, particularly Chiarella
protathecaides, Chiarella minutissima, Chiarella sarokiniana, Chiarella ellipsaidea,
Chiarella sp., and Chiarella emersanii are preferred microorganisms for use in the genetic
engineering methods described herein, although other Chiarella species as well as other
varieties of microorganisms can be used.
[0209]     Promoters, cDNAs, and 3'UTRs, as well as other elements of the vectors, can be
generated through cloning techniques using fragments isolated from native sources (see for
example Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Sambrook et al. (3d edition, 2001, Cold
                                                   51

Spring Harbor Press; and U.S. Patent 4,683,202). Alternatively, elements can be generated
synthetically using known methods (see for example Gene. 1995 Oct 16;164(1):49-53).
          1.    Engineering Methods - Transformation
[0210]    Cells can be transformed by any suitable technique including, e.g., biolistics,
electroporation (see Maruyama et al. (2004), Biotechnology Techniques 8:821-826), glass
bead transformation and silicon carbide whisker transformation. Another method that can be
used involves forming protoplasts and using CaCh and polyethylene glycol (PEG) to
introduce recombinant DNA into microalgal cells (see Kim et al. (2002), Mar. Biatechnal.
4:63-73, which reports the use of this method for the transformation of Charella ellipsaidea).
Co-transformation of microalgae can be used to introduce two distinct vector molecules into
a cell simultaneously (see for example Protist 2004 Dec;155(4):381-93).
[0211]    Biolistic methods (see, for example, Sanford, Trends In Biotech. (1988) 6:299 302,
U.S. Patent No. 4,945,050; electroporation (Fromm et al., Proc. Nat' I. Acad. Sci. (USA)
(1985) 82:5824 5828); use of a laser beam, microinjection or any other method capable of
introducing DNA into a microalgae can also be used for transformation of a Protatheca cell.
[0212]    Any convenient technique for introducing a transgene into a microorganism, such as
Charella, can be employed in the present invention. Dawson et al. (1997) (supra) described
the use of micro-projectile bombardment to introduce the nitrate reductase (NR) gene from
Chiarella vulgaris into NR-deficient Chiarella sarokiniana mutants, resulting in stable
transformants. Briefly, 0.4 micron tungsten beads were coated with plasmid; 3 X 107 C.
sarokiniana cells were spread in the center third of a non-selective agar plate and bombarded
with the PDS-1000/He Biolistic Particle Delivery® system (Bio-Rad).
[0213]    A preferred method for introducing a trans gene into a microorganism, such as
Chiarella, is the method described by Kim et al. (2002), Mar. Biatechnal. 4:63-73. Kim
reports the transformation of Charella ellipsaidea protoplasts using CaCh and polyethylene
glycol (PEG). In particular, protoplasts were prepared by growing C. ellipsaidea cells to a
density of 1-2 X 108/Ml. Cells were recovered and washed by centrifugation for 5 minutes at
1600 g and resuspended in 5 Ml of phosphate buffer (Ph 6.0) containing 0.6 M sorbitol, 0.6
M mannitol, 4% (weight/volume) cellulose (Calbiochem), 2% (weight/volume) macerase
(Calbiochem), and 50 units pectinase (Sigma). The cell suspension was incubated at 25°C for
16 hours in the dark with gentle shaking. The resultant protoplasts were recovered by
centrifugation at 400 g for 5 minutes. The pellet was gently resuspended in 5 Ml of f/2
medium containing 0.6 M sorbitol and 0.6 M mannitol and centrifuged at 400 g for 5
                                               52

   minutes. This pellet was resuspended in 1 Ml of 0.6 M sorbitol/mannitol solution containing
   50 mMCaCb. Then, 5 mg of transgene DNA was added, along with 25 µg calf thymus DNA
   (Sigma), to 107 -10 8 protoplasts in 0.4 Ml. After 15 minutes at room temperature, 200 µL of
   PNC (40% polyethylene glycol 4000, 0.8 M NaCl, 50 Mm CaCb) was added and mixed
   gently for 30 minutes at room temperature. After this, 0.6 Ml of f/2 medium supplemented
   with 0.6 M sorbitol/mannitol solution, 1% yeast extract and 1% glucose was added, and the
~
~  transformed cells were incubated at 25°C for 12 hours in the dark for cell wall regeneration.
N
~  A similar method was used by Huang et al. (2007) (supra) to introduce a transgene encoding
0
N  mercuric reductase into Chiarella sp. DT.
00
~  [0214]    Electorporation has also been employed to transform microorganisms, such as
0
N  Chorella. As reported by Maruyama et al. (2004), Biotechnology Techniques 8:821-826
   (incorporated by reference herein in its entirety), this technique was used to introduce a
   transgene into protoplasts of Chiarella saccharophila c-211-la prepared from the cells in the
   stationary phase. Transient expression of the introduced plasmid was observed under a field
   strength of between 600 and 900 V/cm, and a pulse duration of around 400 ms, where high
   membrane permeability to 70-kDa FITC-dextran was ascertained.
   [0215]    Examples of expression of transgenes in microorganisms, such as Chiarella, can be
   found in the literature (see for example Current Microbiology Vol. 35 (1997), pp. 356-362;
   Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2000 Jul;16(4):443-6; Current Microbiology Vol. 38
   (1999), pp. 335-341; Appl Microbial Biotechnol (2006) 72: 197-205; Marine Biotechnology
   4, 63-73, 2002; Current Genetics 39:5, 365-370 (2001); Plant Cell Reports 18:9, 778-780,
   (1999); Biologia Plantarium 42(2): 209-216, (1999); Plant Pathol. J 21(1): 13-20, (2005)).
   Also see Examples herein.
   [0216]    Examples of expression of transgenes in oleaginous yeast (e.g., Yarrowia lipolytica)
   can be found in the literature (see, for example, Bordes et al., J Microbial Methods, Jun 27
   (2007)). Examples of expression of transgenes in fungi (e.g., Mortierella alpine, Mucor
   circinelloides, and Aspergillus ochraceus) can also be found in the literature (see, for
   example, Microbiology, Jul; 153(Pt. 7):2013-25 (2007); Mol Genet Genomics, Jun;
   271(5):595-602 (2004); Curr Genet, Mar;21(3):215-23 (1992); Current Microbiology,
   30(2):83-86 (1995); Sakuradani, NISR Research Grant, "Studies of Metabolic Engineering of
   Useful Lipid-producing Microorganisms" (2004); and PCT/JP2004/012021). Examples of
   expression of exogenous genes in bacteria such as E. coli are well known; see for example
                                                   53

Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Sambrook et al. (3d edition, 2001, Cold Spring
Harbor Press.
[0217]    Vectors for transformation of microorganisms in accordance with the present
invention can be prepared by known techniques familiar to those skilled in the art. The
nucleotide sequence of the construct used for transformation of multiple Chiarella species
corresponds to SEQ ID NO: 8. In one embodiment, an exemplary vector design for
expression of a lipase gene in a microorganism such as a microalgae contains a gene
encoding a lipase in operable linkage with a promoter active in microalgae. Alternatively, if
the vector does not contain a promoter in operable linkage with the gene of interest, the gene
can be transformed into the cells such that it becomes operably linked to an endogenous
promoter at the point of vector integration. The promoterless method of transformation has
been proven to work in microalgae (see for example Plant Journal 14:4, (1998), pp.441-447).
The vector can also contain a second gene that encodes a protein that, e.g., imparts resistance
to an antibiotic or herbicide, i.e., a selectable marker. Optionally, one or both gene(s) is/are
followed by a 3' untranslated sequence containing a polyadenylation signal. Expression
cassettes encoding the two genes can be physically linked in the vector or on separate vectors.
Co-transformation of microalgae can also be used, in which distinct vector molecules are
simultaneously used to transform cells (see for example Protist 2004 Dec;155(4):381-93).
The transformed cells can be optionally selected based upon the ability to grow in the
presence of the antibiotic or other selectable marker under conditions in which cells lacking
the resistance cassette would not grow.
          2.    Engineering Methods - Homologous Recombination
[0218]    Homologous recombination is the ability of complementary DNA sequences to
align and exchange regions of homology. Transgenic DNA ("donor") containing sequences
homologous to the genomic sequences being targeted ("template") is introduced into the
organism and then undergoes recombination into the genome at the site of the corresponding
genomic homologous sequences. The mechanistic steps of this process, in most casees,
include: (1) pairing of homologous DNA segments; (2) introduction of double-stranded
breaks into the donor DNA molecule; (3) invasion of the template DNA molecule by the free
donor DNA ends followed by DNA synthesis; and (4) resolution of double-strand break
repair events that result in final recombination products.
[0219]    The ability to carry out homologous recombination in a host organism has many
practical implications for what can be carried out at the molecular genetic level and is useful
in the generation of an oleaginous microbe that can produced tailored oils. By its very nature
                                                  54

homologous recombination is a precise gene targeting event, hence, most transgenic lines
generated with the same targeting sequence will be essentially identical in terms of
phenotype, necessitating the screening of far fewer transformation events. Homologous
recombination also targets gene insertion events into the host chromosome, resulting in
excellent genetic stability, even in the absence of genetic selection. Because different
chromosomal loci will likey impact gene expression, even from heterologous
promoters/UTRs, homologous recombination can be a method of querying loci in an
unfamiliar genome environment and to assess the impact of these environments on gene
expression.
[0220]    Particularly useful genetic engineering applications using homologous
recombination is to co-opt specific host regulatory elements such as promoters/UTRs to drive
heterologous gene expression in a highly specific fashion. For example, ablation or knockout
of desaturase genes/gene families with a heterologous gene encoding a selective marker
might be expected to increase overall percentage of saturated fatty acids produced in the host
cell. Example 11 describes the homologous recombination targeting constructs and a
working example of such desaturase gene ablations or knockouts generated in Prototheca
moriformis.
[0221]    Because homologous recombination is a precise gene targeting event, it can be used
to precisely modify any nucleotide(s) within a gene or region of interest, so long as sufficient
flanking regions have been identified. Therefore, homologous recombination can be used as
a means to modify regulatory sequences impacting gene expression of RNA and/or proteins.
It can also be used to modify protein coding regions in an effort to modify enzyme activites
such as substrate specificity, affinities and Km, and thus affecting the desired change in
metabolism of the host cell. Homologous recombination provides a powerful means to
manipulate the gost genome resulting in gene targeting, gene conversion, gene deletion, gene
duplication, gene inversion and exchanging gene expression regulatory elements such as
promoters, enhancers and 3 'UTRs.
[0222]    Homologous recombination can be achieve by using targeting constructs containing
pieces of endogenous sequences to "target" the gene or region of interest within the
endogenous host cell genome. Such targeting sequences can either be located 5' of the gene
or region of interest, 3' of the gene/region of interest or even flank the gene/region of interest.
Such targeting constructs can be transformed into the host cell either as a supercoiled plasmid
DNA with additional vector backbone, a PCR product with no vector backbone, or as a
linearized molecule. In some cases, it may be advantageous to first expose the homologous
                                                 55

sequences within the transgenic DNA (donor DNA) with a restriction enzyme. This step can
increase the recombination efficiency and decrease the occurance of undesired events. Other
methods of increasing recombination efficiency include using PCR to generate transforming
transgenic DNA containing linear ends homologous to the genomic sequences being targeted.
[0223]    For purposes of non-limiting illustration, regions of donor DNA sequences that are
useful for homologous recombination include the KE858 region of DNA in Prototheca
moriformis. KE858 is a 1.3 kb, genomic fragment that encompasses part of the coding region
for a protein that shares homology with the transfer RNA (tRNA) family of proteins.
Southern blots have shown that the KE858 sequence is present in a single copy in the
Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435) genome. This region and Examples of using this region
for homologous recombination targeting has been described in PCT Application No.
PCT/US2009/66142. Another region of donor DNA that is useful is portions of the 6S rRNA
genomic sequence. The use of this sequence in homologous recombination in Prototheca
morifomis are described below in the Examples.
          3.    Vectors and Vector Components
[0224]    Vectors for transformation of microorganisms in accordance with the present
invention can be prepared by known techniques familiar to those skilled in the art in view of
the disclosure herein. A vector typically contains one or more genes, in which each gene
codes for the expression of a desired product (the gene product) and is operably linked to one
or more control sequences that regulate gene expression or target the gene product to a
particular location in the recombinant cell. To aid the reader, this subsection is divided into
subsections. Subsection A describes control sequences typically contained on vectors as well
as novel control sequences provided by the present invention. Subsection B describes genes
typically contained in vectors as well as novel codon optimization methods and genes
prepared using them provided by the invention.
                A.      Control Sequences
[0225]    Control sequences are nucleic acids that regulate the expression of a coding
sequence or direct a gene product to a particular location in or outside a cell. Control
sequences that regulate expression include, for example, promoters that regulate transcription
of a coding sequence and terminators that terminate transcription of a coding sequence.
Another control sequence is a 3' untranslated sequence located at the end of a coding
sequence that encodes a polyadenylation signal. Control sequences that direct gene products
to particular locations include those that encode signal peptides, which direct the protein to
which they are attached to a particular location in or outside the cell.
                                               56

[0226]    Thus, an exemplary vector design for expression of an exogenous gene in a
microalgae contains a coding sequence for a desired gene product (for example, a selectable
marker, a lipid pathway modification enzyme, or a sucrose utilization enzyme) in operable
linkage with a promoter active in microalgae. Alternatively, if the vector does not contain a
promoter in operable linkage with the coding sequence of interest, the coding sequence can
be transformed into the cells such that it becomes operably linked to an endogenous promoter
at the point of vector integration. The promoterless method of transformation has been proven
to work in microalgae (see for example Plant Journal 14:4, (1998), pp.441-447).
[0227]    Many promoters are active in microalgae, including promoters that are endogenous
to the algae being transformed, as well as promoters that are not endogenous to the algae
being transformed (i.e., promoters from other algae, promoters from higher plants, and
promoters from plant viruses or algae viruses). Illustrative exogenous and/or endogenous
promoters that are active in microalgae (as well as antibiotic resistance genes functional in
microalgae) are described in PCT Pub. No. 2008/151149 and references cited therein).
[0228]    The promoter used to express an exogenous gene can be the promoter naturally
linked to that gene or can be a heterologous gene. Some promoters are active in more than
one species of microalgae. Other promoters are species-specific. Illustrative promoters
include promoters such as    ~-tubulin from Chlamydamanas reinhardtii, used in the Examples
below,and viral promoters, such as cauliflower mosaic virus (CMV) and chlorella virus,
which have been shown to be active in multiple species of microalgae (see for example Plant
Cell Rep. 2005Mar;23(10-l1):727-35; J Microbial. 2005 Aug;43(4):361-5; Mar Biotechnol
(NY). 2002 Jan;4(1):63-73). Another promoter that is suitable for use for expression of
exogenous genes in Protatheca is the Chiarella sarokiniana glutamate dehydrogenase
promoter/5'UTR. Optionally, at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, or 60 nucleotides or more of these
sequences containing a promoter are used. Illustrative promoters useful for expression of
exogenous genes in Protatheca are listed in the sequence listing of this application, such as
the promoter of the Chiarella HUPl gene (SEQ ID NO: 1) and the Chiarella ellipsaidea
nitrate reductase promoter (SEQ ID N0:2). Chlorella virus promoters can also be used to
express genes in Protatheca, such as SEQ ID NOs: 1-7 of U.S. Patent 6,395,965. Additional
promoters active in Protatheca can be found, for example, in Biochem Biophys Res
Commun. 1994 Oct 14;204(1):187-94; Plant Mol Biol. 1994 Oct;26(1):85-93; Virology. 2004
Aug 15;326(1):150-9; and Virology. 2004 Jan 5;318(1):214-23. Other useful promoters are
described in detail in the Examples below.
                                               57

[0229]    A promoter can generally be characterized as either constitutive or inducible.
Constitutive promoters are generally active or function to drive expression at all times (or at
certain times in the cell life cycle) at the same level. Inducible promoters, conversely, are
active (or rendered inactive) or are significantly up- or down-regulated only in response to a
stimulus. Both types of promoters find application in the methods of the invention. Inducible
promoters useful in the invention include those that mediate transcription of an operably
linked gene in response to a stimulus, such as an exogenously provided small molecule (e.g,
glucose, as in SEQ ID NO: 1), temperature (heat or cold), lack of nitrogen in culture media,
etc. Suitable promoters can activate transcription of an essentially silent gene or upregulate,
preferably substantially, transcription of an operably linked gene that is transcribed at a low
level. Examples below describe additional inducible promoters that are useful in Protatheca
cells.
[0230]    Inclusion of termination region control sequence is optional, and if employed, then
the choice is be primarily one of convenience, as the termination region is relatively
interchangeable. The termination region may be native to the transcriptional initiation region
(the promoter), may be native to the DNA sequence of interest, or may be obtainable from
another source. See, for example, Chen and Orozco, Nucleic Acids Res. (1988) 16:8411.
[0231]    The present invention also provides control sequences and recombinant genes and
vectors containing them that provide for the compartmentalized expression of a gene of
interest. Organelles for targeting are chloroplasts, plastids, mitochondria, and endoplasmic
reticulum. In addition, the present invention provides control sequences and recombinant
genes and vectors containing them that provide for the secretion of a protein outside the cell.
[0232]    Proteins expressed in the nuclear genome of Protatheca can be targeted to the
plastid using plastid targeting signals. Plastid targeting sequences endogenous to Chiarella
are known, such as genes in the Chiarella nuclear genome that encode proteins that are
targeted to the plastid; see for example GenBank Accession numbers AY646197 and
AF499684, and in one embodiment, such control sequences are used in the vectors of the
present invention to target expression of a protein to a Protatheca plastid.
[0233]    The Examples below describe the use of algal plastid targeting sequences to target
heterologous proteins to the correct compartment in the host cell. cDNA libraries were made
using Protatheca marifarmis and Chiarella protathecadies cells and are described in PCT
Application No. PCT/US2009/066142.
[0234]    In another embodiment of the present invention, the expression of a polypeptide in
Protatheca is targeted to the endoplasmic reticulum. The inclusion of an appropriate retention
                                                 58

or sorting signal in an expression vector ensure that proteins are retained in the endoplasmic
reticulum (ER) and do not go downstream into Golgi. For example, the
IMPACTVECTORl.3 vector, from Wageningen UR- Plant Research International, includes
the well known KDEL retention or sorting signal. With this vector, ER retention has a
practical advantage in that it has been reported to improve expression levels 5-fold or more.
The main reason for this appears to be that the ER contains lower concentrations and/or
different proteases responsible for post-translational degradation of expressed proteins than
are present in the cytoplasm. ER retention signals functional in green microalgae are known.
For example, see Proc Natl Acad Sci US A. 2005 Apr 26; 102(17):6225-30.
[0235]    In another embodiment of the present invention, a polypeptide is targeted for
secretion outside the cell into the culture media. See Hawkins et al., Current Microbiology
Vol. 38 (1999), pp. 335-341 for examples of secretion signals active in Chiarella that can be
used, in accordance with the methods of the invention, in Prototheca.
[0236]    Many promoters are active in microalgae, including promoters that are endogenous
to the algae being transformed, as well as promoters that are not endogenous to the algae
being transformed (i.e., promoters from other algae, promoters from higher plants, and
promoters from plant viruses or algae viruses). Exogenous and/or endogenous promoters that
are active in microalgae, and antibiotic resistance genes functional in microalgae are
described by e.g., Curr Microbial. 1997 Dec;35(6):356-62 (Chiarella vulgaris); Mar
Biotechnol (NY). 2002 Jan;4(1):63-73 (Chiarella ellipsoidea); Mol Gen Genet. 1996 Oct
16;252(5):572-9 (Phaeodactylum tricornutum); Plant Mol Biol. 1996 Apr;31(1):1-12
(Volvox carteri); Proc Natl Acad Sci US A. 1994 Nov 22;91(24):11562-6 (Volvox carteri);
Falciatore A, Casotti R, Leblanc C, Abrescia C, Bowler C, PMID: 10383998, 1999
May; 1(3):239-251 (Laboratory of Molecular Plant Biology, Stazione Zoologica, Villa
Comunale, I-80121 Naples, Italy) (Phaeodactylum tricornutum and Thalassiosira
weissflogii); Plant Physiol. 2002 May;129(1):7-12. (Porphyridium sp.); Proc Natl Acad Sci U
SA. 2003 Jan 21;100(2):438-42. (Chlamydomonas reinhardtii); Proc Natl Acad Sci US A.
1990 Feb;87(3):1228-32. (Chlamydomonas reinhardtii); Nucleic Acids Res. 1992 Jun
25;20(12):2959-65; Mar Biotechnol (NY). 2002 Jan;4(1):63-73 (Chiarella); Biochem Mol
Biol Int. 1995 Aug;36(5):1025-35 (Chlamydomonas reinhardtii); J Microbial. 2005
Aug;43(4):361-5 (Dunaliella); Yi Chuan Xue Bao. 2005 Apr;32(4):424-33 (Dunaliella); Mar
Biotechnol (NY). 1999 May;l(3):239-251. (Thalassiosira and Phaedactylum); Koksharova,
Appl Microbial Biotechnol 2002 Feb;58(2):123-37 (various species); Mol Genet Genomics.
2004 Feb;271(1):50-9 (Thermosynechococcus elongates); J. Bacterial. (2000), 182, 211-215;
                                                59

FEMS Microbial Lett. 2003 Apr 25;221(2):155-9; Plant Physiol. 1994 Jun;l05(2):635-41;
Plant Mol Biol. 1995 Dec;29(5):897-907 (Synechacaccus PCC 7942); Mar Pollut Bull.
2002;45(1-12):163-7 (Anabaena PCC 7120); Proc Natl Acad Sci US A. 1984
Mar;81(5):1561-5 (Anabaena (various strains)); Proc Natl Acad Sci US A. 2001 Mar
27;98(7):4243-8 (Synechacystis); Wirth, Mol Gen Genet 1989 Mar;216(1):175-7 (various
species); Mol Microbial, 2002 Jun;44(6):1517-31 and Plasmid, 1993 Sep;30(2):90-105
(Fremyella diplasiphan); Hall et al. (1993) Gene 124: 75-81 (Chlamydamanas reinhardtii);
Gruber et al. (1991). Current Micro. 22: 15-20; Jarvis et al. (1991) Current Genet. 19: 317-
322 (Chiarella); for additional promoters see also table 1 from US Patent 6,027,900).
[0237]    The promoter used to express an exogenous gene can be the promoter naturally
linked to that gene or can be a heterologous gene. Some promoters are active in more than
one species of microalgae. Other promoters are species-specific. Preferred promoters
include promoters such as RBCS2 from Chlamydamanas reinhardtii and viral promoters,
such as cauliflower mosaic virus (CMV) and chlorella virus, which have been shown to be
active in multiple species of microalgae (see for example Plant Cell Rep. 2005 Mar;23(10-
11):727-35; J Microbial. 2005 Aug;43(4):361-5; Mar Biotechnol (NY). 2002 Jan;4(1):63-73).
In other embodiments, the Batryacaccus malate dehydrogenase promoter, such a nucleic acid
comprising any part of SEQ ID NO: 150, or the Chlamydamanas reinhardtii RBCS2
promoter (SEQ ID NO: 151) can be used. Optionally, at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, or 60
nucleotides or more of these sequences containing a promoter are used. Preferred promoters
endogenous to species of the genus Chiarella are SEQ ID NO: 1 and SEQ ID N0:2.
[0238]    Preferred promoters useful for expression of exogenous genes in Chiarella are listed
in the sequence listing of this application, such as the promoter of the Chiarella HUPl gene
(SEQ ID NO:l) and the Chiarella ellipsaidea nitrate reductase promoter (SEQ ID N0:2).
Chiarella virus promoters can also be used to express genes in Chiarella, such as SEQ ID
NOs: 1-7 of U.S. Patent 6,395,965. Additional promoters active in Chiarella can be found,
for example, in Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 1994 Oct 14;204(1):187-94; Plant Mol Biol.
1994 Oct;26(1):85-93; Virology. 2004 Aug 15;326(1):150-9; and Virology. 2004 Jan
5;318(1):214-23.
                B.      Genes and Codon Optimization
[0239]    Typically, a gene includes a promoter, coding sequence, and termination control
sequences. When assembled by recombinant DNA technology, a gene may be termed an
expression cassette and may be flanked by restriction sites for convenient insertion into a
vector that is used to introduce the recombinant gene into a host cell. The expression cassette
                                                60

can be flanked by DNA sequences from the genome or other nucleic acid target to facilitate
stable integration of the expression cassette into the genome by homologous recombination.
Alternatively, the vector and its expression cassette may remain unintegrated, in which case,
the vector typically includes an origin of replication, which is capable of providing for
replication of the heterologous vector DNA.
[0240]     A common gene present on a vector is a gene that codes for a protein, the
expression of which allows the recombinant cell containing the protein to be differentiated
from cells that do not express the protein. Such a gene, and its corresponding gene product, is
called a selectable marker. Any of a wide variety of selectable markers can be employed in a
trans gene construct useful for transforming Prototheca. Examples of suitable selectable
markers include the G418 resistance gene, the nitrate reductase gene (see Dawson et al.
(1997), Current Microbiology 35:356-362), the hygromycin phosphotransferase gene (HPT;
see Kim et al. (2002), Mar. Biotechnol. 4:63-73), the neomycin phosphotransferase gene, the
ble gene, which confers resistance to phleomycin (Huang et al. (2007), Appl. Microbial.
Biotechnol. 72:197-205), and the aminoglycoside-3'-0-phosphotransferase (SEQ ID NO:
194), which confers resistance to kanamycin. Methods of determining sensitivity of
microalgae to antibiotics are well known. For example, Mol Gen Genet. 1996 Oct
16;252(5):572-9.
[0241]     Other selectable markers that are not antibiotic-based can alsobe employed in a
trans gene construct useful for transforming microalgae in general, including Prototheca
species. Genes that confers the ability to utilize certain carbon sources that were previously
unable to be utilized by the microalgae can also be used as a selectable marker. By way of
illustration, Prototheca moriformis strains typically grow poorly, if at all, on sucrose. Using
a construct containing a sucrose invertase gene can confer the ability of positive
transformants to grow on sucrose as a carbon substrate. Additional details on using sucrose
utilization as a selectable marker along with other selectable markers are discussed in Section
IV below.
[0242]     For purposes of the present invention, the expression vector used to prepare a
recombinant host cell of the invention will include at least two, and often three, genes, if one
of the genes is a selectable marker. For example, a genetically engineered Prototheca of the
invention can be made by transformation with vectors of the invention that comprise, in
addition to a selectable marker, one or more exogenous genes, such as, for example, sucrose
invertase gene or acyl ACP-thioesterase gene. One or both genes can be expressed using an
inducible promoter, which allows the relative timing of expression of these genes to be
                                                61

controlled to enhance the lipid yield and conversion to fatty acid esters. Expression of the two
or more exogenous genes may be under control of the same inducible promoter or under
control of different inducible (or constitutive) promoters. In the latter situation, expression of
a first exogenous gene can be induced for a first period of time (during which expression of a
second exogenous gene may or may not be induced) and expression of a second exogenous
gene can be induced for a second period of time (during which expression of a first
exogenous gene may or may not be induced).
[0243]     In other embodiments, the two or more exogenous genes (in addition to any
selectable marker) are: a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase and a fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde
reductase, the combined action of which yields an alcohol product. Further provided are other
combinations of exogenous genes, including without limitation, a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase
and a fatty acyl-CoA reductase to generate aldehydes. In one embodiment, the vector
provides for the combination of a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase, a fatty acyl-CoA reductase,
and a fatty aldehyde decarbonylase to generate alkanes. In each of these embodiments, one or
more of the exogenous genes can be expressed using an inducible promoter.
[0244]     Other illustrative vectors of the invention that express two or more exogenous genes
include those encoding both a sucrose transporter and a sucrose invertase enzyme and those
encoding both a selectable marker and a secreted sucrose invertase. The recombinant
Prototheca transformed with either type of vector produce lipids at lower manufacturing cost
due to the engineered ability to use sugar cane (and sugar cane-derived sugars) as a carbon
source. Insertion of the two exogenous genes described above can be combined with the
disruption of polysaccharide biosynthesis through directed and/or random mutagenesis,
which steers ever greater carbon flux into lipid production. Individually and in combination,
trophic conversion, engineering to alter lipid production and treatment with exogenous
enzymes alter the lipid composition produced by a microorganism. The alteration can be a
change in the amount of lipids produced, the amount of one or more hydrocarbon species
produced relative to other lipids, and/or the types of lipid species produced in the
microorganism. For example, microalgae can be engineered to produce a higher amount
and/or percentage of TAGs.
[0245]     For optimal expression of a recombinant protein, it is beneficial to employ coding
sequences that produce mRNA with codons preferentially used by the host cell to be
transformed. Thus, proper expression of transgenes can require that the codon usage of the
trans gene matches the specific codon bias of the organism in which the transgene is being
expressed. The precise mechanisms underlying this effect are many, but include the proper
                                                 62

balancing of available aminoacylated tRNA pools with proteins being synthesized in the cell,
coupled with more efficient translation of the transgenic messenger RNA (mRNA) when this
need is met. When codon usage in the trans gene is not optimized, available tRNA pools are
not sufficient to allow for efficient translation of the heterologous mRNA resulting in
ribosomal stalling and termination and possible instability of the transgenic mRNA.
[0246]    The present invention provides codon-optimized nucleic acids useful for the
successful expression of recombinant proteins in Prototheca. Codon usage in Prototheca
species was analyzed by studying cDNA sequences isolated from Prototheca moriformis.
This analysis represents the interrogation over 24, 000 codons and resulted in Table 2 below.
[0247]    Table 2. Preferred codon usage in Prototheca strains.
Ala       GCG           345  (0.36)                      Asn    AAT      8 (0.04)
          GCA            66  (0.07)                             AAC 201 (0.96)
          GCT           101  (0.11)
          GCC           442  (0.46)                      Pro    CCG 161    (0.29)
                                                                CCA     49 (0.09)
Cys       TGT            12 (0.10)                              CCT     71 (0.13)
          TGC           105 (0.90)                              CCC 267    (0.49)
Asp       GAT            43 (0.12)                       Gln    CAG 226 (0.82)
          GAC           316 (0.88)                              CAA 48 (0.18)
Glu       GAG           377 (0.96)                       Arg    AGG 33 (0.06)
          GAA            14 (0.04)                              AGA 14 (0.02)
                                                                CGG 102 (0.18)
Phe       TTT            89 (0.29)                              CGA 49 (0.08)
          TTC           216 (0.71)                              CGT     51 (0.09)
                                                                CGC 331 (0.57)
Gly       GGG            92 (0.12)
          GGA            56 (0.07)                       Ser    AGT     16 (0.03)
          GGT            76 (0.10)                              AGC    123 (0.22)
          GGC           559 (0.71)                              TCG    152 (0.28)
                                                                TCA     31 (0.06)
His       CAT            42 (0.21)                              TCT     55 (0.10)
          CAC           154 (0.79)                              TCC    173 (0.31)
Ile       ATA             4 (0.01)                       Tur    ACG 184 (0.38)
          ATT            30 (0.08)                              ACA 24 (0.05)
          ATC           338 (0.91)                              ACT     21 (0.05)
                                                                ACC 249 (0.52)
Lys       AAG           284 (0.98)
          AAA             7 (0.02)                       Val    GTG    308 (0.50)
                                                                GTA      9 (0.01)
Leu       TTG            26 (0.04)                              GTT     35 (0.06)
          TTA             3 (0.00)                              GTC    262 (0.43)
          CTG           447 (0.61)
                                                 63

00
,.......i
0                   CTA            20 (0.03)                   Trp      TGG     107 (1.00)
N                   CTT            45 (0.06)
   >-.
   c:rj
                    CTC          190 (0.26)                    Tyr      TAT      10 (0.05)
                                                                        TAC     180 (0.95)
~         Met       ATG          191 (1.00)
00                                                             Stop     TGA/TAG/TAA
0
          [0248]    In other embodiments, the gene in the recombinant vector has been codon-
,.......i
,.......i optimized with reference to a microalgal strain other than a Protatheca strain. For example,
N
~         methods of recoding genes for expression in microalgae are described in U.S. Patent
0
N         7,135,290. Additional information for codon optimization is available, e.g., at the codon
00
,.......i usage database of GenBank.
0         [0249]    Other non-limiting examples of codon usage in Chiarella pyrenaidasa, Dunaliella
N
          salina, and Chiarella protathecaides are shown in Tables 28, 29, and 30, respectively.
          [0250]    Table 28. Codon usage in Chiarella pyrenaidasa.
           Phe       uuu           39 (0.82)            Ser      ucu     50 (1.04)
                     uuc       56 (1.18)                ucc      60 (1.25)
           Leu       UUA           10 (0.20)                     UCA 6 (0.96)
                     UUG           46 (0.91)                     UCG 43 (0.89)
           Tyr       UAU           15 (0.59)            Cys      UGU 46 (0.77)
                     UAC           36 (1.41)                     UGC 73 (1.23)
           ter       UAA           9 (0.00)             ter      UGA 43 (0.00)
           ter       UAG           15 (0.00)            Trp      UGG 69 (1.00)
           Leu       cuu           49 (0.97)            Pro      CCU 80 (0.98)
                     CUC           73 (1.45)                     CCC 88 (1.08)
                     CUA           22 (0.44)                     CCA 93 (1.14)
                     CUG           103 (2.04)                    CCG 65 (0.80)
           His       CAU           50 (0.88)            Arg      CGU 39 (0.76)
                     CAC           3 (1.12)                      CGC 63 (1.23)
           Gln       CAA           59 (0.84)                     CGA 46 (0.90)
                     CAG           2 (1.16)                      CGG 47 (0.92)
           Ile       AUU           24 (0.69)            Thr      ACU 32 (0.67)
                     AUC           61 (1.76)                     ACC 76 (1.60)
                     AUA           19 (0.55)                     ACA 41 (0.86)
           Met       AUG           42 (1.00)                     ACG 41 (0.86)
           Asn       AAU           26 (0.75)            Ser      AGU 23 (0.48)
                     AAC           3 (1.25)                      AGC 67 (1.39)
           Lys       AAA           32 (0.54)            Arg      AGA 51 (1.00)
                     AAG           86 (1.46)                     AGG 61 (1.19)
           Val       GUU           36 (0.75)            Ala      GCU 57 (0.79)
                     GUC           54 (1.13)                     GCC 97 (1.34)
                     GUA           30 (0.63)                     GCA 89 (1.23)
                     GUG           71 (1.49)                     GCG 47 (0.65)
           Asp       GAU           60 (0.95)            Gly      GGU 35 (0.60)
                     GAC           66 (1.05)                     GGC 78 (1.33)
                                                        64

 Glu        GAA            41 (0.68)                       GGA 54 (0.92)
            GAG            80 (1.32)                       GGG 67 (1.15)
[0251]    Table 29. Preferred codon usage in Dunaliella salina.
 TTC (Phe)                 TAC   (Tyr)             TGC   (Cys)           TAA    (Stop)
 TGG (Trp)                 CCC   (Pro)             CAC   (His)           CGC    (Arg)
 CTG (Leu)                 CAG    (Gln)            ATC   (Ile)           ACC    (Thr)
 AAC (Asn)                 AGC    (Ser)            ATG   (Met)           AAG     (Lys)
 GCC (Ala)                 GAC    (Asp)            GGC   (Gly)           GTG    (Val)
 GAG (Glu)
[0252]    Table 30. Preferred codon usage in Chiarella protathecaides.
 TTC (Phe)                 TAC (Tyr)               TGC (Cys)             TGA (Stop)
 TGG (Trp)                 CCC (Pro)               CAC (His)             CGC (Arg)
 CTG (Leu)                 CAG (Gln)               ATC (Ile)             ACC (Tur)
 GAC (Asp)                 TCC (Ser)               ATG (Met)             AAG (Lys)
 GCC (Ala)                 AAC (Asn)               GGC (Gly)             GTG (Val)
 GAG (Glu)
           c.    Inducible Expression
[0253]    The present invention also provides for the use of an inducible promoter to express
a gene of interest. In particular, the use of an inducible promoter to express a lipase gene
permits production of the lipase after growth of the microorganism when conditions have
been adjusted, if necessary, to enhance transesterification, for example, after disruption of the
cells, reduction of the water content of the reaction mixture, and/or addition sufficient alcohol
to drive conversion of TAGs to fatty acid esters.
[0254]    Inducible promoters useful in the invention include those that mediate transcription
of an operably linked gene in response to a stimulus, such as an exogenously provided small
molecule (e.g, glucose, as in SEQ ID NO:l), temperature (heat or cold), light, etc. Suitable
promoters can activate transcription of an essentially silent gene or upregulate, preferably
substantially, transcription of an operably linked gene that is transcribed at a low level. In the
latter case, the level of transcription of the lipase preferably does not significantly interfere
with the growth of the microorganism in which it is expressed.
[0255]    Expression of transgenes in Chiarella can be performed inducibly through
promoters such as the promoter that drives the Chiarella hexose transporter gene (SEQ ID
NO:l). This promoter is strongly activated by the presence of glucose in the culture media.
          D.     Expression of Two or More Exogenous Genes
                                                  65

[0256]     Further, a genetically engineered microorganism, such as a microalgae, may
comprise and express two or more exogenous genes, such as, for example, a lipase and a lytic
gene, e.g., one encoding a polysaccharide-degrading enzyme. One or both genes can be
expressed using an inducible promoter, which allows the relative timing of expression of
these genes to be controlled to enhance the lipid yield and conversion to fatty acid esters.
Expression of the two or more exogenous genes may be under control of the same inducible
promoter or under control of a different inducible promoters. In the latter situation,
expression of a first exogenous gene can be induced for a first period of time (during which
expression of a second exogenous gene may or may not be induced) and expression of a
second exogenous gene can be induced for a second period of time (during which expression
of a first exogenous gene may or may not be induced). Provided herein are vectors and
methods for engineering lipid-producing microbes to metabolize sucrose, which is an
advantageous trait because it allows the engineered cells to convert sugar cane feedstocks
into lipids.
[0257]     Also provided herein are genetically engineered strains of microbes (e.g.,
microalgae, oleaginous yeast, bacteria, or fungi) that express two or more exogenous genes,
such as, for example, a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase and a fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductase,
the combined action of which yields an alcohol product. Further provided are other
combinations of exogenous genes, including without limitation, a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase
and a fatty acyl-CoA reductase to generate aldehydes. In addition, this application provides
for the combination of a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase, a fatty acyl-CoA reductase, and a fatty
aldehyde decarbonylase to generate alkanes. One or more of the exogenous genes can be
expressed using an inducible promoter.
[0258]     Examples of further modifications suitable for use in the present invention are
include genetically engineering strains of microalgae to express two or more exogenous
genes, one encoding a transporter of a fixed carbon source (such as sucrose) and a second
encoding a sucrose invertase enzyme. The resulting fermentable organisms produce
hydrocarbons at lower manufacturing cost than what has been obtainable by previously
known methods of biological hydrocarbon production. Insertion of the two exogenous genes
described above can be combined with the disruption of polysaccharide biosynthesis through
directed and/or random mutagenesis, which steers ever greater carbon flux into hydrocarbon
production. Individually and in combination, trophic conversion, engineering to alter
hydrocarbon production and treatment with exogenous enzymes alter the hydrocarbon
composition produced by a microorganism. The alteration can be a change in the amount of
                                               66

hydrocarbons produced, the amount of one or more hydrocarbon species produced relative to
other hydrocarbons, and/or the types of hydrocarbon species produced in the microorganism.
For example, microalgae can be engineered to produce a higher amount and/or percentage of
TA Gs.
          E.     Compartmentalized Expression
[0259]    The present invention also provides for compartmentalized expression of a gene of
interest. In particular, it can be advantageous, in particular embodiments, to target expression
of the lipase to one or more cellular compartments, where it is sequestered from the majority
of cellular lipids until initiation of the transesterification reaction. Preferred organelles for
targeting are chloroplasts, mitochondria, and endoplasmic reticulum.
                 (1)     Expression in Chloroplasts
[0260]    In one embodiment of the present invention, the expression of a polypeptide in a
microorganism is targeted to chloroplasts. Methods for targeting expression of a
heterologous gene to the chloroplast are known and can be employed in the present invention.
Methods for targeting foreign gene products into chloroplasts are described in Shrier et al.,
EMBO J. (1985) 4:25 32. See also Tamai et al. Gen. Biol. Chem. (1988) 263:15104 15109
and U.S. Pat. No. 4,940,835 for the use of transit peptides for translocating nuclear gene
products into the chloroplast. Methods for directing the transport of proteins to the
chloroplast are also reviewed in Kenauf TIBTECH (1987) 5:40 47. Chloroplast targeting
sequences endogenous to Chiarella are known, such as genes in the Chiarella nuclear
genome that encode proteins that are targeted to the chloroplast; see for example GenBank
Accession numbers AY646197 and AF499684.
[0261]    Wageningen UR- Plant Research International sells an IMPACTVECTORl.4
vector, which uses the secretion signal of the Chrysanthemum morifolium small subunit
protein to deliver a heterologous protein into the chloroplast stroma (cytoplasmic)
environment, shuttling across a double membrane system. The protein is fused to the first 11
amino acids of the mature rubisco protein in order to allow proper processing of the signal
peptide (Wong et al., Plant Molecular Biology 20: 81-93 (1992)). The signal peptide contains
a natural intron from the RbcS gene.
[0262]    In another approach, the chloroplast genome is genetically engineered to express the
heterologous protein. Stable transformation of chloroplasts of Chlamydamanas reinhardtii (a
green alga) using bombardment of recipient cells with high-velocity tungsten microprojectiles
coated with foreign DNA has been described. See, for example, Boynton et al., Science
(1988) 240: 1534 1538; Blowers et al. Plant Cell (1989) 1:123 132 and Debuchy et al.,
                                                   67

EMBO J. (1989) 8: 2803 2809. The transformation technique, using tungsten
microprojectiles, is described by Klein et al., Nature (London) (1987) 7:70 73. Other
methods of chloroplast transformation for both plants and microalgae are known. See for
example U.S. Patents 5,693,507; 6,680,426; and Plant Physiol. 2002 May;129(1):7-12; and
Plant Biotechnol J. 2007 May;5(3):402-12.
[0263]    As described in U.S. Patent No. 6,320,101 (issued November 20, 2001 to Kaplan et
al.; which is incorporated herein by reference), cells can be chemically treated so as to reduce
the number of chloroplasts per cell to about one. Then, the heterologous nucleic acid can be
introduced into the cells via particle bombardment with the aim of introducing at least one
heterologous nucleic acid molecule into the chloroplasts. The heterologous nucleic acid is
selected such that it is integratable into the chloroplast's genome via homologous
recombination which is readily effected by enzymes inherent to the chloroplast. To this end,
the heterologous nucleic acid includes, in addition to a gene of interest, at least one nucleic
acid sequence that is derived from the chloroplast's genome. In addition, the heterologous
nucleic acid typically includes a selectable marker. Further details relating to this technique
are found in U.S. Patent. Nos. 4,945,050 and 5,693,507 which are incorporated herein by
reference. A polypeptide can thus be produced by the protein expression system of the
chloroplast.
[0264]    U.S. Patent No. 7,135,620 (issued November 14, 2006 to Daniell et al.; incorporated
herein by reference) describes chloroplast expression vectors and related methods.
Expression cassettes are DNA constructs including a coding sequence and appropriate control
sequences to provide for proper expression of the coding sequence in the chloroplast.
Typical expression cassettes include the following components: the 5' untranslated region
from a microorganism gene or chloroplast gene such as psbA which will provide for
transcription and translation of a DNA sequence encoding a polypeptide of interest in the
chloroplast; a DNA sequence encoding a polypeptide of interest; and a translational and
transcriptional termination region, such as a 3' inverted repeat region of a chloroplast gene
that can stabilize RNA of introduced genes, thereby enhancing foreign gene expression. The
cassette can optionally include an antibiotic resistance gene.
[0265]    Typically, the expression cassette is flanked by convenient restriction sites for
insertion into an appropriate genome. The expression cassette can be flanked by DNA
sequences from chloroplast DNA to facilitate stable integration of the expression cassette into
the chloroplast genome, particularly by homologous recombination. Alternatively, the
expression cassette may remain unintegrated, in which case, the expression cassette typically
                                                 68

includes a chloroplast origin of replication, which is capable of providing for replication of
the heterologous DNA in the chloroplast.
[0266]    The expression cassette generally includes a promoter region from a gene capable of
expression in the chloroplast. The promoter region may include promoters obtainable from
chloroplast genes, such as the psbA gene from spinach or pea, or the rbcL and atpB promoter
region from maize and Rrna promoters. Examples of promoters are described in Hanley-
Bowdoin and Chua, TIBS (1987) 12:67 70; Mullet et al., Plant Malec Biol. (1985) 4: 39 54;
Hanley-Bowdoin (1986) PhD. Dissertation, the Rockefeller University; Krebbers et al.,
Nucleic Acids Res. (1982) 10: 4985 5002; Zurawaki et al., Nucleic Acids Res. (1981) 9:3251
3270; and Zurawski et al., Proc. Nat'l Acad Sci. U.S.A. (1982) 79: 7699 7703. Other
promoters can be identified and the relative strength of promoters so identified evaluated, by
placing a promoter of interest 5' to a promoterless marker gene and observing its
effectiveness relative to transcription obtained from, for example, the promoter from the
psbA gene, a relatively strong chloroplast promoter. The efficiency of heterologus gene
expression additionally can be enhanced by any of a variety of techniques. These include the
use of multiple promoters inserted in tandem 5' to the heterologous gente, for example a
double psbA promoter, the addition of enhancer sequences and the like.
[0267]    Numerous promoters active in the Chiarella chloroplast can be used for expression
of exogenous genes in the Chiarella chloroplast, such as those found in GenBank accession
number NC_001865 (Chiarella vulgaris chloroplast, complete genome),
[0268]    Where it is desired to provide for inducible expression of the heterologous gene, an
inducible promoter and/or a 5' untranslated region containing sequences which provide for
regulation at the level of transcription and/or translation (at the 3' end) may be included in the
expression cassette. For example, the 5' untranslated region can be from a gene wherein
expression is regulatable by light. Similarly, 3' inverted repeat regions could be used to
stabilize RNA of heterologous genes. Inducible genes may be identified by enhanced
expression in response to a particular stimulus of interest and low or absent expression in the
absence of the stimulus. For example, a light-inducible gene can be identified where
enhanced expression occurs during irradiation with light, while substantially reduced
expression or no expression occurs in low or no light. Light regulated promoters from green
microalgae are known (see for example Mol Genet Genomics. 2005 Dec;274(6):625-36).
[0269]    The termination region which is employed will be primarily one of convenience,
since the termination region appears to be relatively interchangeable among chloroplasts and
bacteria. The termination region may be native to the transcriptional initiation region, may be
                                                 69

native to the DNA sequence of interest, or may be obtainable from another source. See, for
example, Chen and Orozco, Nucleic Acids Res. (1988) 16:8411.
[0270]     The expression cassettes may be transformed into a plant cell of interest by any of a
number of methods. These methods include, for example, biolistic methods (See, for
example, Sanford, Trends In Biotech. (1988) 6:299 302, U.S. Patent No. 4,945,050;
electroporation (Fromm et al., Proc. Nat'l. Acad. Sci. (USA) (1985) 82:5824 5828); use of a
laser beam, microinjection or any other method capable of introducing DNA into a
chloroplast.
[0271]     Additional descriptions of chloroplast expression vectors suitable for use in
microorganisms such as microalgae are found in U.S. Patent Nos. 7,081,567 (issued July 25,
2006 to Xue et al.); 6,680,426 (issued January 20, 2004 to Daniell et al.); and 5,693,507
(issued December 2, 1997 to Daniell et al.).
[0272]     Proteins expressed in the nuclear genome of Chiarella can be targeted to the
chloroplast using chloroplast targeting signals. Chloroplast targeting sequences endogenous
to Chiarella are known, such as genes in the Chlorella nuclear genome that encode proteins
that are targeted to the chloroplast; see for example GenBank Accession numbers AY646197
and AF499684. Proteins can also be expressed in the Chiarella chloroplast by insertion of
genes directly into the chloroplast genome. Chloroplast transformation typically occurs
through homologous recombination, and can be performed if chloroplast genome sequences
are known for creation of targeting vectors (see for example the complete genome sequence
of a Chiarella chloroplast; Genbank accession number NC_001865). See previous sections
herein for details of chloroplast transformation.
                 (2)    Expression in Mitochondria
[0273]     In another embodiment of the present invention, the expression of a polypeptide in a
microorganism is targeted to mitochondria. Methods for targeting foreign gene products into
mitochnodria (Boutry et al. Nature (London) (1987) 328:340 342) have been described,
including in green microalgae (see for example Mol Gen Genet. 1993 Jan;236(2-3):235-44).
[0274]     For example, an expression vector encoding a suitable secretion signal can target a
heterologus protein to the mitochondrion. The IMPACTVECTORI.5 vector, from
Wageningen UR- Plant Research International, uses the yeast CoxIV secretion signal, which
was shown to deliver proteins in the mitochondrial matrix. The protein is fused to the first 4
amino acids of the yeast CoxIV protein in order to allow proper processing of the signal
peptide (Kohler et al. Plant J 11: 613-621 (1997)). Other mitochondrial targeting sequences
                                                 70

are known, including those functional in green microalgae. For example, see FEBS Lett.
1990 Jan 29;260(2):165-8; and J Biol Chem. 2002 Feb 22;277(8):6051-8.
[0275]    Proteins expressed in the nuclear genome of Chiarella can be targeted to the
mitochondria using mitochondrial targeting signals. See previous sections herein for details
of mitochondrial protein targeting and transformation.
                (3)     Expression in Endoplasmic Reticulum
[0276]    In another embodiment of the present invention, the expression of a polypeptide in a
microorganism is targeted to the endoplasmic reticulum. The inclusion of an appropriate
retention or sorting signal in an expression vector ensure that proteins are retained in the
endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and do not go downstream into Golgi. For example, the
IMPACTVECTORl.3 vector, from Wageningen UR- Plant Research International, includes
the well known KDEL retention or sorting signal. With this vector, ER retention has a
practical advantage in that it has been reported to improve expression levels 5-fold or more.
The main reason for this appears to be that the ER contains lower concentrations and/or
different proteases responsible for post-translational degradation of expressed proteins than
are present in the cytoplasm. ER retention signals functional in green microalgae are known.
For example, see Proc Natl Acad Sci US A. 2005 Apr 26; 102(17):6225-30.
[0277]    While the methods and materials of the invention allow for the introduction of any
exogenous gene into a microorganism, for example Prototheca, genes relating to sucrose
utilization and lipid pathway modification are of particular interest, as discussed in the
following sections.
IV.       SELECTABLE MARKERS
          1.    Sucrose Utilization
[0278]    In embodiment, the recombinant Prototheca cell of the invention further contains
one or more exogenous sucrose utilization genes. In various embodiments, the one or more
genes encode one or more proteins selected from the group consisting of a fructokinase, a
glucokinase, a hexokinase, a sucrose invertase, a sucrose transporter. For example,
expression of a sucrose transporter and a sucrose invertase allows Prototheca to transport
sucrose into the cell from the culture media and hydrolyze sucrose to yield glucose and
fructose. Optionally, a fructokinase can be expressed as well in instances where endogenous
hexokinase activity is insufficient for maximum phosphorylation of fructose. Examples of
suitable sucrose transporters are Genbank accession numbers CAD91334, CAB92307, and
CAA53390. Examples of suitable fructokinases are Genbank accession numbers P26984,
P26420 and CAA43322.
                                               71

[0279]     In one embodiment, the present invention provides a Prototheca host cell that
secretes a sucrose invertase. Secretion of a sucrose invertase obviates the need for expression
of a transporter that can transport sucrose into the cell. This is because a secreted invertase
catalyzes the conversion of a molecule of sucrose into a molecule of glucose and a molecule
of fructose, both of which can be transported and utilized by microbes provided by the
invention. For example, expression of a sucrose invertase (such as SEQ ID N0:3) with a
secretion signal (such as that of SEQ ID NO: 4 (from yeast), SEQ ID NO: 5 (from higher
plants), SEQ ID NO: 6 (eukaryotic consensus secretion signal), and SEQ ID NO: 7
(combination of signal sequence from higher plants and eukaryotic consensus) generates
invertase activity outside the cell. Expression of such a protein, as enabled by the genetic
engineering methodology disclosed herein, allows cells already capable of utilizing
extracellular glucose as an energy source to utilize sucrose as an extracellular energy source.
[0280]     Prototheca species expressing an invertase in media containing sucrose are a
preferred microalgal species for the production of oil. The expression and extracellular
targeting of this fully active protein allows the resulting host cells to grow on sucrose,
whereas their non-transformed counterparts cannot. Thus, the present invention provides
Prototheca recombinant cells with a codon-optimized invertase gene, including but not
limited to the yeast invertase gene, integrated into their genome such that the invertase gene
is expressed as assessed by invertase activity and sucrose hydrolysis. The present invention
also provides invertase genes useful as selectable markers in Prototheca recombinant cells, as
such cells are able to grow on sucrose, while their non-transformed counterparts cannot; and
methods for selecting recombinant host cells using an invertase as a powerful, selectable
marker for algal molecular genetics.
[0281]     The successful expression of a sucrose invertase in Prototheca also illustrates
another aspect of the present invention in that it demonstrates that heterologous
(recombinant) proteins can be expressed in the algal cell and successfully transit outside of
the cell and into the culture medium in a fully active and functional form. Thus, the present
invention provides methods and reagents for expressing a wide and diverse array of
heterologous proteins in microalgae and secreting them outside of the host cell. Such proteins
include, for example, industrial enzymes such as, for example, lipases, proteases, cellulases,
pectinases, amylases (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 190-191), esterases, oxidoreductases, transferases,
lactases, isomerases, and invertases, as well as therapeutic proteins such as, for example,
growth factors, cytokines, full length antibodies comprising two light and two heavy chains,
Fabs, scFvs (single chain variable fragment), camellid-type antibodies, antibody fragments,
                                                 72

antibody fragment-fusions, antibody-receptor fusions, insulin, interferons, and insulin-like
growth factors.
[0282]       The successful expression of a sucrose invertase in Prototheca also illustrates
another aspect of the present invention in that it provides methods and reagents for the use of
fungal transit peptides in algae to direct secretion of proteins in Prototheca; and methods and
reagents for determining if a peptide can function, and the ability of it to function, as a transit
peptide in Prototheca cells. The methods and reagents of the invention can be used as a tool
and platform to identify other transit peptides that can successfully traffic proteins outside of
a cell, and that the yeast invertase has great utility in these methods. As demonstrated in this
example, removal of the endogenous yeast invertase transit peptide and its replacement by
other transit peptides, either endogenous to the host algae or from other sources (eukaryotic,
prokaryotic and viral), can identify whether any peptide of interest can function as a transit
peptide in guiding protein egress from the cell.
[0283]       Examples of suitable sucrose invertases include those identified by Genbank
accession numbers CAB95010, NP_012104 and CAA06839. Non-limiting examples of
suitable invertases are listed below in Table 3. Amino acid sequences for each listed invertase
are included in the Sequence Listing below. In some cases, the exogenous sucrose utilization
gene suitable for use in the methods and vectors of the invention encodes a sucrose invertase
that has at least 40, 50, 60, 75, or 90% or higher amino acid identity with a sucrose invertase
selected from Table 3.
[0284]       Table 3. Sucrose invertases.
          Description                Organism            GenBank Accession No.        SEQ ID NO:
 Invertase                  Chicorium intybus            Yll124                SEQIDN0:20
 Invertase                  Schizosaccharomyces          AB011433              SEQ ID N0:21
                            pombe
 beta-fructofuranosidase    Pichia anomala               X80640                SEQIDN0:22
 (invertase)
 Invertase                  Debaryomyces occidentalis    X17604                SEQIDN0:23
 Invertase                  Oryza sativa                 AF019113              SEQIDN0:24
 Invertase                  Allium cepa                  AJ006067              SEQIDN0:25
                                                      73

 Invertase                  Beta vulgaris subsp.        AJ278531          SEQIDN0:26
                            Vulgaris
 beta-fructofuranosidase    Bifidobacterium breve       AAT28190          SEQIDN0:27
 (invertase)                UCC2003
 Invertase                  Saccharomyces cerevisiae    NP_012104         SEQ ID N0:8 (nucleotide)
                                                                          SEQ ID N0:28 (amino acid)
 Invertase A                Zymomonas mobilis           AA038865          SEQIDN0:29
 Invertase                  Arabadopsis thaliana        NP_566464         SEQ ID NO:l88
[0285]       The secretion of an invertase to the culture medium by Prototheca enable the cells
to grow as well on waste molasses from sugar cane processing as they do on pure reagent-
grade glucose; the use of this low-value waste product of sugar cane processing can provide
significant cost savings in the production of lipids and other oils. Thus, the present invention
provides a microbial culture containing a population of Prototheca microorganisms, and a
culture medium comprising (i) sucrose and (ii) a sucrose invertase enzyme. In various
embodiments the sucrose in the culture comes from sorghum, sugar beet, sugar cane,
molasses, or depolymerized cellulosic material (which may optionally contain lignin). In
another aspect, the methods and reagents of the invention significantly increase the number
and type of feedstocks that can be utilized by recombinant Prototheca. While the microbes
exemplified here are altered such that they can utilize sucrose, the methods and reagents of
the invention can be applied so that feedstocks such as cellulosics are utilizable by an
engineered host microbe of the invention with the ability to secrete cellulases, pectinases,
isomerases, or the like, such that the breakdown products of the enzymatic reactions are no
longer just simply tolerated but rather utilized as a carbon source by the host. An example of
this is described below and in the Examples of microbes engineered to express a secretable a-
galactosidase, conferring the ability to hydrolyze a-galactosyl bonds in oligosaccharides such
as those contained in raffinose and stachyose which are two oligosaccharides found in
agricultural waste streams.
             2.    Alpha-galactosidase Expression
[0286]       While the expression of a sucrose invertase, as described above, confers the ability
for Prototheca cells to more efficiently utilize sucrose as a carbon source (via the enzyme
hydrolyzing the a-linkage between fructose and glucose molecules in the disaccharide
sucrose), the expression of other enzymes that hydrolyze other types of a-linkages in
oligosaccharides can confer the ability for Prototheca cells to utilize other carbon sources.
                                                     74

The expression of these enzymes (and the resulting ability to utilize carbon sources that
Prototheca and other microalgal cells ordinarily would not be able to) can be used as a
selectable marker for these transgenic Prototheca cells by allowing for the selection of
positive clones that are able to grow on these carbon sources.
[0287]     In an embodiment, the recombinant Prototheca cell of the invention further contains
one or more exogenous genes encoding polysaccharide-degrading enzymes. In various
embodiments, the one or more genes encoding a polysaccharide-degrading enzyme is a gene
encoding a secreted a-galactosidase. The expression of an exogenous secreted a-
galactosidase in a Prototheca cell confers the ability of such transformed strains to grow on
sugars (carbon sources) containing D-galactosyl linkages, such as a-linkages between
galactose and glucose monosaccharide units. Prototheca strains expressing an exogenous,
secreted a-galactosidase will be able to utilize disaccharides such as melibiose (disaccharide
composed of a-D-galactose-glucose).
[0288]     Sugars such as raffinose (a trisaccharide comprised of a-linked galactose-glucose-
fructose) and stachyose (a tetrasaccharide composed to two a-linked D-galactose units,
followed by a-linked glucose and fructose) are present in significant proportions in
agricultural waste streams such as beet pulp (raffinose) and soybean meal (stachyose). Such
agricultural residues represent a significant untapped carbon source for the conversion into oil
by microbes (including Prototheca) capable of utilizing them.
[0289]     Prototheca strains are unable to utilize oligosaccharides such as raffinose and
stachyose in any significant quantity or at all. In the case of raffinose and stachyose,
although transgenic strains expressing a sucrose invertase (as described above) have the
ability to hydrolyze the a-linkage between fructose and glucose in a-galactosyl derivatives of
sucrose, but the remainder of the oligosaccharide remains unutilized, as sucrose invertase will
not cleave the remaining a-linkages in such sugars and the resulting disaccharides are not
utilizable. In another embodiment, the recombinant Prototheca cell of the invention
comprises both an exogenous gene encoding a sucrose invertase and an exogenous gene
encoding an a-galactosidase. Thus, strains expressing both a sucrose invertase and an a-
galactosidase will be capable of fully hydrolyzing oligosaccharides such as raffinose and
stachyose, enabling the consumption of the component monomers. In addition, a-
galactosidase encoding genes may be used as a selectable marker for transformation. Clones
containing the the exogenous a-galactosidase gene will have the ability to grow on melibiose.
Examples of suitable a-galactosidase genes for use in Prototheca strains include the MELI
gene from Saccharomyces carlbergensis, the AglC gene from Aspergilus niger. Interestingly,
                                                 75

not all a-galactosidase genes are functional in Prototheca species, even if the genes are
optimized according to the preferred codon usage in Prototheca strains. The Examples below
demonstrates the ability of transgenic Prototheca cells to grow on melibiose when
transformed with codon-optimized MELI gene from S. carlbergensis and the AglC gene from
A. niger, but not an a-galactosidase encoding gene from the higher plant, Cyamopsis
tetragonobola (Guar bean).
          3.    Thiamine Auxotrophy Complementation
[0290]    Prototheca strains including Prototheca moriformis are known to be thiamine
auxotrophic (See, for example, Ciferri, 0. (1956) Nature, v.178, pp. 1475-1476), meaning
that these strains require thiamine in the nutrient media for growth. Thiamine auxotrophy can
be the result of mutations or lack of expression of enzymes in the thiamine biosynthetic
pathway. Complemented transgenic strains expressing the missing enzyme(s) in the thiamine
biosynthetic pathway can then be grown without added thiamine, thus reducing the cost of
the nutrient media as well as rendering the resulting microalgal biomass more desireable from
an animal nutrition perspective. Complementation with a thiamine biosynthetic pathway
enzyme can also be used as a selectable marker as the transgenic gene confers the ability to
grow on plates/media that does not contain thiamine.
[0291]    In an embodiment, the recombinant Prototheca cell of the invention further contains
one or more exogenous genes encoding thiamine biosynthetic pathway enzyme. In another
embodiment, the recombinant Prototheca cell of the invention comprises an exogenous gene
encoding hydroxymethylpyrimidine phosphate synthases (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 192) from algal,
plant or cyanobacterial sources. In still other embodiments, the hydroxymethylpyrimidine
phosphate synthase is encoded by a THIC gene. In still other embodiments, the THIC gene is
the Coccomyxa C-169 THIC, Arabidopsis thaliana THIC, the Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803
THIC, or the Salmonella enterica subsp.enterica serovar Typhimurium str.THIC (SEQ ID
NO: 193). The Examples below details the engineering of Prototheca moriformis UTEX
1435 with restored thiamine prototrophy.
          4.    Other Selectable Markers
[0292]    Any of a wide variety of selectable markers can be employed in a transgene
construct useful for transforming microorganisms, such as Chiarella. Examples of suitable
selectable markers include the nitrate reductase gene, the hygromycin phosphotransferase
gene (HPT), the neomycin phosphotransferase gene, and the ble gene, which confers
                                                76

resistance to phleomycin. Methods of determining sensitivity of microalgae to antibiotics are
well known. For example, Mol Gen Genet. 1996 Oct 16;252(5):572-9.
[0293] More specifically, Dawson et al. (1997), Current Microbiology 35:356-362
(incorporated by reference herein in its entirety), described the use of the nitrate reductase
(NR) gene from Chiarella vulgaris as a selectable marker for NR-deficient Chiarella
sarokiniana mutants. Kim et al. (2002), Mar. Biotechnol. 4:63-73 (incorporated by reference
herein in its entirety), disclosed the use of the HPT gene as a selectable marker for
transforming Charella ellipsaidea. Huang et al. (2007), Appl. Microbial. Biotechnol.
72:197-205 (incorporated by reference herein in its entirety), reported on the use of Sh ble as
a selectable marker for Chiarella sp. DT.
V.         LIPID PATHWAY ENGINEERING
[0294]     In addition to altering the ability of microorganisms (e.g., microalgae, oleaginous
yeast, fungi, or bacteria), such as Protatheca to utilize feedstocks such as sucrose-containing
feedstocks, the present invention also provides recombinant microorganisms (e.g.,
Protatheca) that have been modified to alter the properties and/or proportions of lipids
produced. The pathway can further, or alternatively, be modified to alter the properties and/or
proportions of various lipid molecules produced through enzymatic processing of lipids and
intermediates in the fatty acid pathway. In various embodiments, the recombinant
microorganisms (e.g., Protatheca cells) of the invention have, relative to their untransformed
counterparts, optimized lipid yield per unit volume and/or per unit time, carbon chain length
(e.g., for renewable diesel production or for industrial chemicals applications requiring lipid
feedstock), reduced number of double or triple bonds, optionally to zero, and increasing the
hydrogen:carbon ratio of a particular species of lipid or of a population of distinct lipid. In
addition, microorganisms that produce desirable hydrocarbons can be engineered to produce
such components in higher quantities, or with greater specificity.
[0295]     In the case of microalgae, some wild-type cells already have good growth
characteristics but do not produce the desired types or quantities of lipids. Examples include,
without limitation, Pyrobatrys, Pharmidium, Agmenellum, Carteria, Lepacinclis, Pyrobatrys,
Nitzschia, Lepacinclis, Anabaena, Euglena, Spirogyra, Chlarocaccum, Tetraedron,
Oscillataria, Phagus, and Chlaroganium, which have the desirable growth characteristic of
growing in municipal sewage or wastewater. Such cells, as well as species of Chiarella,
Prototheca and other microbes, can be engineered to have improved lipid production
characteristics. Desired characteristics include optimizing lipid yield per unit volume and/or
per unit time, carbon chain length (e.g., for biodiesel production or for industrial applications
                                                  77

requiring hydrocarbon feedstock), reducing the number of double or triple bonds, optionally
to zero, removing or eliminating rings and cyclic structures, and increasing the
hydrogen:carbon ratio of a particular species of lipid or of a population of distinct lipid. In
addition, microalgae that produce appropriate hydrocarbons can also be engineered to have
even more desirable hydrocarbon outputs. Examples of such microalgae include species of
the genus Chiarella and the genus Prototheca.
[0296]    In particular embodiments, one or more key enzymes that control branch points in
metabolism to fatty acid synthesis have been up-regulated or down-regulated to improve lipid
production. Up-regulation can be achieved, for example, by transforming cells with
expression constructs in which a gene encoding the enzyme of interest is expressed, e.g.,
using a strong promoter and/or enhancer elements that increase transcription. Such constructs
can include a selectable marker such that the transformants can be subjected to selection,
which can result in amplification of the construct and an increase in the expression level of
the encoded enzyme. Examples of enzymes suitable for up-regulation according to the
methods of the invention include pyruvate dehydrogenase, which plays a role in converting
pyruvate to acetyl-CoA (examples, some from microalgae, include Genbank accession
numbers NP_415392; AAA53047; QlXDMl; and CAF05587). Up-regulation of pyruvate
dehydrogenase can increase production of acetyl-CoA, and thereby increase fatty acid
synthesis. Acetyl-CoA carboxylase catalyzes the initial step in fatty acid synthesis.
Accordingly, this enzyme can be up-regulated to increase production of fatty acids
(examples, some from microalgae, include Genbank accession numbers BAA94752;
AAA75528; AAA81471; YP_537052; YP_536879; NP_045833; and BAA57908). Fatty acid
production can also be increased by up-regulation of acyl carrier protein (ACP), which carries
the growing acyl chains during fatty acid synthesis (examples, some from microalgae, include
Genbank accession numbers AOTOF8; P51280; NP_849041; YP_874433). Glycerol-3-
phosphate acyltransferase catalyzes the rate-limiting step of fatty acid synthesis. Up-
regulation of this enzyme can increase fatty acid production (examples, some from
microalgae, include Genbank accession numbers AAA74319; AAA33122; AAA37647;
P44857; and AB094442).
[0297]    Up- and/or down-regulation of genes can be applied to global regulators controlling
the expression of the genes of the fatty acid biosynthetic pathways. Accordingly, one or more
global regulators of fatty acid synthesis can be up- or down-regulated, as appropriate, to
inhibit or enhance, respectively, the expression of a plurality of fatty acid synthetic genes
and, ultimately, to increase lipid production. Examples include sterol regulatory element
                                                78

binding proteins (SREBPs), such as SREBP-la and SREBP-lc (for examples see Genbank
accession numbers NP_035610 and Q9WTN3).
[0298]    The present invention also provides recombinant microorganisms (e.g., Prototheca
cells) that have been modified to contain one or more exogenous genes encoding lipid
modification enzymes such as, for example, fatty acyl-ACP thioesterases (e.g., C. callophylla
(SEQ ID NO: 145 and SEQ ID NO: 146; see also Table 4), fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde
reductases (see Table 6), fatty acyl-CoA reductases (see Table 7), fatty aldehyde
decarbonylase (see Table 8), fatty aldehyde reductases, desaturases (such as stearoyl-ACP
desaturases (e.g., a codon optimized R. communis SAD, SEQ ID NO: 147 and SEQ ID NO:
148) and fatty acyl desaturases and squalene synthases (see GenBank Accession number
AF205791). In some embodiments, genes encoding a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase and a
naturally co-expressed acyl carrier protein are transformed into a Prototheca cell, optionally
with one or more genes encoding other lipid modification enzymes. In other embodiments,
the ACP and the fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase may have an affinity for one another that
imparts an advantage when the two are used together in the microbes and methods of the
present invention, irrespective of whether they are or are not naturally co-expressed in a
particular tissue or organism. Thus, the present invention contemplates both naturally co-
expressed pairs of these enzymes as well as those that share an affinity for interacting with
one another to facilitate cleavage of a length-specific carbon chain from the ACP.
[0299]    In still other embodiments, an exogenous gene encoding a desaturase is transformed
into the microorganism (e.g., a Prototheca cell) in conjunction with one or more genes
encoding other lipid modification enzymes to provide modifications with respect to lipid
saturation. In other embodiments, an endogenous desaturase gene is overexpressed (e.g.,
through the introduction of additonal copies off the gene) in the microorganism (e.g., a
Prototheca cell). Stearoyl-ACP desaturase (see, e.g., GenBank Accession numbers
AAF15308; ABM45911; and AAY86086), for example, catalyzes the conversion of stearoyl-
ACP to oleoyl-ACP. Up-regulation of this gene can increase the proportion of
monounsaturated fatty acids produced by a cell; whereas down-regulation can reduce the
proportion of monounsaturates. For illustrative purposes, stearoyl-ACP desaturases (SAD)
are responsible for for the synthesis of C18: 1 fatty acids from C18:0 precursors. Another
family of desaturases are the fatty acyl desaturases (FAD), including delta 12 fatty acid
desaturases   (~12  FAD). These desaturases also provide modifications with respect to lipid
saturation. For illustrative purposes, delta 12 fatty acid desaturases are responsible for the
synthesis of C18:2 fatty acids from C18:1 precursors. Similarly, the expression of one or
                                                79

more glycerolipid desaturases can be controlled to alter the ratio of unsaturated to saturated
fatty acids such as CD-6 fatty acid desaturase, CD-3 fatty acid desaturase, or CD-6-oleate
desaturase. In some embodiments, the desaturase can be selected with reference to a desired
carbon chain length, such that the desaturase is capable of making location specific
modifications within a specified carbon-length substrate, or substrates having a carbon-length
within a specified range. In another embodiment, if the desired fatty acid profile is an
increase in monounsaturates (such as C16:1 and/or C18:1) overexpression of a SAD or
expression of a heterologous SAD can be coupled with the silencing or inactivation (e.g.,
through mutation, RNAi, knockout of an endogenous desaturase gene, etc.) of a fatty acyl
desaturase (FAD).
[0300]    In other embodiments, the microorganism (e.g., Prototheca cell) has been modified
to have a mutated endogenous desaturase gene, wherein the mutation renders the gene or
desaturase enzyme inactive. In some cases, the mutated endogenous desaturase gene is a
fatty acid desaturase (FAD). In other cases, the mutated endogenous desaturase gene is a
stearoyl Acyl carrier protein desaturase (SAD). Example 11 below describes the targeted
ablation or knockout of stearoyl-ACP desaturases and delta 12 fatty acid desaturases.
[0301]    In some cases, it may be advantageous to pair one or more of the genetic
engineering techniques in order to achieve a trangenic cell that produces the desired lipid
profile. In one embodiment, a microorganism (e.g., a Prototheca cell) comprises a mutated
endogenous desaturase gene and one or more exogenous gene. In non-limiting examples, a
Prototheca cell with a mutated endogenous desaturase gene can also express an exogenous
fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase gene and/or a sucrose invertase gene. Example 11 below
describes a transgenic Prototheca cell containing a targeted ablation or knockout of an
endogenous SAD and also expresses a Cinnamomum camphora C14-preferring thioesterase
and a sucrose invertase. In this case, the transgenic Prototheca cell produces a lipid profile
that closely approximates the lipid profile found in tallow. Tallow is typically derived from
rendered beef or mutton fat, is solid at room temperature and is utilized in a variety of
applications in the food, cosmetics, and chemicals industries. The fatty acid profile of tallow
is: 4% C14:0; 26% C16:0; 3% C16:1; 14% C18:0; 41 % C18:1; 3% C18:2; and 1% C18:3. As
is shown in Example 11 below, clones of transgenic Prototheca cells with a targeted ablation
or knockout of an endogenous SAD and expressing a C. camphora C 14-preferring
thioesterase have lipid profiles of: less than 1% C 12 and shorter carbon chain length fatty
acids; 2.74% to 6.13% C14:0; 23.07% to 25.69% C16:0; 7.02% to 11.08% C18:0; 42.03% to
51.21 % C18:1; and 9.37% to 13.45% C18:2 (expressed in area percent). In some cases, the
                                                 80

transgenic Prototheca cells have lipid profiles of: 3-5% C14:0; 25-27% C16:0; 10-15%
C18:0; and 40-45% C18:1.
[0302]     Thus, in particular embodiments, microbes of the present invention are genetically
engineered to express one or more exogenous genes selected from an acyl-ACP thioesterase,
an acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductase, a fatty acyl-CoA reductase, a fatty aldehyde reductase, a
fatty aldehyde decarbonylase, or a naturally co-expressed acyl carrier protein. Suitable
expression methods are described above with respect to the expression of a lipase gene,
including, among other methods, inducible expression and compartmentalized expression. A
fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase cleaves a fatty acid from an acyl carrier protein (ACP) during
lipid synthesis. Through further enzymatic processing, the cleaved fatty acid is then
combined with a coenzyme to yield an acyl-CoA molecule. This acyl-CoA is the substrate for
the enzymatic activity of a fatty acyl-CoA reductase to yield an aldehyde, as well as for a
fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductase to yield an alcohol. The aldehyde produced by the action
of the fatty acyl-CoA reductase identified above is the substrate for further enzymatic activity
by either a fatty aldehyde reductase to yield an alcohol, or a fatty aldehyde decarbonylase to
yield an alkane or alkene.
[0303]     In some embodiments, fatty acids, glycerolipids, or the corresponding primary
alcohols, aldehydes, alkanes or alkenes, generated by the methods described herein, contain
8, 10, 12,or 14 carbon atoms. Preferred fatty acids for the production of diesel, biodiesel,
renewable diesel, or jet fuel, or the corresponding primary alcohols, aldehydes, alkanes and
alkenes, for industrial applications contain 8 to 14 carbon atoms. In certain embodiments, the
above fatty acids, as well as the other corresponding hydrocarbon molecules, are saturated
(with no carbon-carbon double or triple bonds); mono unsaturated (single double bond); poly
unsturated (two or more double bonds); are linear (not cyclic) or branched. For fuel
production, greater saturation is preferred.
[0304]     The enzymes described directly above have a preferential specificity for hydrolysis
of a substrate containing a specific number of carbon atoms. For example, a fatty acyl-ACP
thioesterase may have a preference for cleaving a fatty acid having 12 carbon atoms from the
ACP. In some embodiments, the ACP and the length-specific thioesterase may have an
affinity for one another that makes them particularly useful as a combination (e.g., the
exogenous ACP and thioesterase genes may be naturally co-expressed in a particular tissue or
organism from which they are derived). Therefore, in various embodiments, the recombinant
Prototheca cell of the invention can contain an exogenous gene that encodes a protein with
specificity for catalyzing an enzymatic activity (e.g., cleavage of a fatty acid from an ACP,
                                                81

reduction of an acyl-CoA to an aldehyde or an alcohol, or conversion of an aldehyde to an
alkane) with regard to the number of carbon atoms contained in the substrate. The enzymatic
specificity can, in various embodiments, be for a substrate having from 8 to 34 carbon atoms,
preferably from 8 to 18 carbon atoms, and more preferably from 8 to 14 carbon atoms. A
preferred specificity is for a substrate having fewer, i.e., 12, rather than more, i.e., 18, carbon
atoms.
[0305]    Other fatty acyl-ACP thioesterases suitable for use with the microbes and methods
of the invention include, without limitation, those listed in Table 4.
[0306]    Table 4. Fatty acyl-ACP thioesterases and GenBank accession numbers.
 Umbellularia californica fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAC49001) (SEQ ID NO:
 203)
 Cinnamomum camphora fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #Q39473)
 Umbellularia californica fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #Q41635)
 Myristica fragrans fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAB71729) (SEQ ID NO: 224)
 Myristica fragrans fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAB71730) (SEQ ID NO: 222)
 Elaeis guineensis fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #ABD83939) (SEQ ID NO: 204)
 Elaeis guineensis fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAD42220)
 Populus tomentosa fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #ABC473l1) (SEQ ID NO: 207)
 Arabidopsis thaliana fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #NP_172327) (SEQ ID NO: 208)
 Arabidopsis thaliana fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #CAA85387) (SEQ ID NO: 209)
 Arabidopsis thaliana fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #CAA85388) (SEQ ID NO: 210)
 Gossypium hirsutum fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #Q9SQI3) (SEQ ID NO: 211)
 Cuphea lanceolata fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #CAA54060) (SEQ ID NO: 212)
 Cuphea hookeriana fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAC72882) (SEQ ID NO: 202)
 Cuphea calophylla subsp. mesostemon fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #ABB71581)
 (SEQ ID NO: 213)
 Cuphea lanceolata fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #CAC19933)
 Elaeis guineensis fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAL15645) (SEQ ID NO: 206)
 Cuphea hookeriana fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #Q39513)
 Gossypium hirsutum fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAD01982) (SEQ ID NO: 214)
 Vitis vinifera fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #CAN81819) (SEQ ID NO: 215)
 Garcinia mangostana fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAB51525)
 Brassicajuncea fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #ABI18986) (SEQ ID NO: 216)
 Madhuca longifolia fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAX51637) (SEQ ID NO: 217)
 Brassica napus fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #ABHll 710)
 Oryza sativa (indica cultivar-group) fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #EA Y86877)
 (SEQ ID NO: 218)
 Oryza sativa (japonica cultivar-group) fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank
 #NP_001068400) (SEQ ID NO: 219)
 Oryza sativa (indica cultivar-group) fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #EA Y99617)
 (SEQ ID NO: 220)
 Cuphea hookeriana fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAC49269)
 Ulmus Americana fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAB71731)
 Cuphea lanceolata fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #CAB60830) (SEQ ID NO: 221)
 Cuphea palustris fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAC49180)
                                                 82

  Iris germanica fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAG43858)
  Iris germanica fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAG43858.1)
  Cuphea palustris fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #AAC49179)
  Myristica fragrans fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank# AAB71729)
  Myristica fragrans fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank# AAB717291.1)
  Cuphea hookeriana fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #U39834) (SEQ ID NO: 197)
  Umbelluaria californica fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank # M94159) (SEQ ID NO:
  285)
  Cinnamomum camphora fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #U31813) (SEQ ID NO: 223)
  Cuphea wrightii fatty acyl-ACOP thioesterase (GenBank #U56103) (SEQ ID NO: 183)
  Ricinus communis fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (GenBank #ABS30422) (SEQ ID NO: 198)
[0307]        The Examples below describe the successful targeting and expression of
heterologous fatty acyl-ACP thioesterases from Cuphea hookeriana, Umbellularia
californica, Cinnamomun camphora, Cuphea palustris, Cuphea lanceolata, Iris germanica,
Myristicafragrans and Ulmus americana in Prototheca species. Additionally, alterations in
fatty acid profiles were confirmed in the host cells expression these heterologous fatty acyl-
ACP thioesterases. These results were quite unexpected given the lack of sequence identity
between algal and higher plant thioesterases in general, and between Prototheca moriformis
fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase and the above listed heterologous fatty acyl-ACP thioesterases.
As shown in the Examples, the expression of these heterologous thioesterases in Prototheca
generates a transgenic microalgae that is able to produce oil/lipids with truly unique fatty acid
profiles that are currently not available from commercial seed crops, even through the
blending of several seed crop oils. Table 5 shows the fatty acid profiles of common
commercial seed oils. All commercial seed oil data below were compiled from the US
Pharmacopeias Food and Chemicals Codes, 7th Ed. 2010-2011. Tallow data is from the
National Research Council: Fat Content and Composition of Animal Products (1976).
[0308]        Table 5. Lipid profiles of commercial seed oils (in percentages).
                  CS:O  ClO:O   C12:0   C14:0 C16:0   C18:0   C18:1   C18:0-  C18:1- C18:2   C18:3  a
                                                                       diOH     OH
 R. communis        0     0       0       0    0.9-    1.0-    3.7-     0.4-   83.6-    0    0.2-0.6
  (Castor oil)                                  1.6    1.8     6.7      1.3     89.0
   C. nucifera    5.0-   4.0-   44-52   15-21  8.0-    1.0-    5.0-      0       0   0-2.5      0
 (Coconut oil)     9.0   8.0                   11.0    4.0     8.0
     Z. mays        0     0       0     < 1.0  8.0-    0.5-   19-50      0       0   38-65    < 2.0
    (Corn oil)                                 19.0    4.0
        G.          0     0     < 0.1    0.5- 17-29    1.0-   13-44      0       0   40-63   0.1-2.1
  barbadense                             2.0           4.0
 (Cottonseed
        oil)
   8. rapa, 8       0     0     < 0.1   < 0.2 < 6.0   < 2.5    > 50      0       0    < 40    < 14
    napus, 8.
                                                  83

00
,.......i
0              juncea
N             (Canola)
   >-.
   c:rj
            0. europea
                (Olive)
                              0    0       0     < 0.1   6.5-
                                                         20.0
                                                                 0.5-
                                                                  5.0
                                                                         56-85     0       0      3.5-
                                                                                                  20.0
                                                                                                           < 1.2
~          A. hypogaea
              (Peanut)
                              0    0     < 0.1   < 0.2   7.0-
                                                         16.0
                                                                 1.3-
                                                                  6.5
                                                                         35-72     0       0     13.0-
                                                                                                   43
                                                                                                           < 0.6
00         E. guineensis    3.0-  2.5-   40-52   14.0-   7.0-    1.0-    11.0-     0       0      0.5-       0
0         (Palm kernel)      5.0  6.0            18.0    10.0     3.0     19.0                     4.0
           E. guineensis      0    0       0     0.5-   32.0-    2.0-    34-44     0       0      7.2-       0
                (Palm)                            5.9   47.0      8.0                             12.0
,.......i
            C. tinctorus      0    0     < 0.1   < 0.1   2.0-    1.0-     7.0-     0       0     72-81     < 1.5
,.......i
            (Safflower)                                  10.0    10.0     16.0
N             H. annus        0    0     < 0.1   < 0.5   3.0-    1.0-    14-65     0       0     20-75     < 0.5
~
            (Sunflower)                                  10.0    10.0
0
N              G.max          0    0     < 0.1   < 0.5   7.0-    2.0-    19-30     0       0     48-65   5.0-10.0
00           (Soybean)                                   12.0     5.5
,.......i         L.          0    0     < 0.1   < 0.5   2.0-    2.0-   8.0-60     0       0     40-80     < 5.0
0         usitatissimum                                   9.0     5.0
N           (Salin-Flax)
              B. parkii       0    0       0       0     3.8-   41.2-    34.0-     0       0      3.7-       0
             (Shea nut)                                   4.1    56.8     46.9                     6.5
           Cocoa Butter           0-1     0-1     0-4   22-30   24-37    29-38                     0-3
                Tallow                            3-4   23-28   14-23    36-43                     1-4      <1
                 Lard                             1-2   22-26   13-18    39-45                    8-15    0.5-1.5
          [0309]        As an example, none of these common seed oils contain high amounts of C8 or C 10
          fatty acids, with coconut oil and palm kernel oil being the largest sources, but both a ratio of
          1:1 (C8:C10 fatty acids). As shown in the Examples, Prototheca transformed with Cuphea
          palustris C:8 preferring thioesterase was able to achieve not only a C8 fatty acid levels of
          over 12%, but also, the ratio of C8:C10 fatty acids were about a 5:1. Changes in fatty acid
          levels are useful for producing oils containing a tailored fatty acid profile for a variety of
          commercial applications. Additionally, changes of ratios between different fatty acid chain
          lengths is something has not been available commercially in oils that have not been through
          further costly chemical processes (such as esterification, distillation, fractionation, and re-
          esterification). As another example, palm oil is the highest C16:0 fatty acid (32-47%)
          containing oils, but palm oil has very little C14:0 fatty acids. Prototheca containing the U.
          americana thioesterase achieved about 33-38% C16:0 fatty acids and about a 10-16% C14:0
          fatty acids (about a 2:1 C16:0 to C14:0 ratio). This fatty acid profile is unachievable through
          blending of existing oils at a commercial level because the seed oils that are high in 16:0 fatty
          acids usually do not contain much 14:0 fatty acids.
          [0310]        The Examples below also describe, for the first time, the successful targeting and
          expression of at least two fatty acyl-ACP thioesterases in one clone. The alterations in the
          fatty acid profiles were confirmed in these clones and depending on which two thioesterases
                                                             84

were co-expressed in one clone, the fatty acid profiles were impacted in different ways. As an
example, from Table 5 above, both coconut oil and palm kernel oil have C12:C14 ratios of
roughly 3:1. As described in the Examples below, a Prototheca transformant containing two
heterologous thioesterase genes was able to produce C12:C14 fatty acid levels at a ratio of
roughly 5:1. This kind of ratio of C12:C14 fatty acids has been, up to now, unachievable at
commercial levels (i.e., through blending of seed oils).
[0311]     Another novel aspect of the oils produced by transgenic microalgae is the degree of
saturation of the fatty acids. Palm oil is currently the largest source of saturated oil, with a
total saturates to unsaturates of 52% to 48%. As shown in the Examples below, Prototheca
with heterologous thioesterases from U. americana and C. camphora achieved total saturates
levels of over 60% in the oil that it produced. Also shown in the Examples below, Prototheca
with heterologous thioesterase from U. americana achieved total saturates level of over 86%
in the oil that it produced.
[0312]     Fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductases suitable for use with the microbes and methods
of the invention include, without limitation, those listed in Table 6.
[0313]     Table 6. Fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductases listed by GenBank accession
numbers.
 AAC45217, YP_047869, BAB85476, YP_001086217, YP_580344, YP_001280274,
 YP_264583, YP_ 436109, YP_959769, ZP_01736962, ZP_01900335, ZP_01892096,
 ZP_01103974, ZP_01915077, YP_924106, YP_130411, ZP_01222731, YP_550815,
 YP_983712, YP_001019688, YP_524762, YP_856798, ZP_01115500, YP _001141848,
 NP_336047, NP_216059, YP_882409, YP_706156, YP_001136150, YP_952365,
 ZP_01221833, YP_130076, NP_567936, AAR88762, ABK28586, NP_197634,
 CAD30694, NP_001063962, BAD46254, NP_001030809, EAZ10132, EAZ43639,
 EAZ07989, NP_001062488, CAB88537, NP_001052541, CAH66597, CAE02214,
 CAH66590, CAB88538, EAZ39844, AAZ06658, CAA68190, CAA52019, and
 BAC84377
[0314]     Fatty acyl-CoA reductases suitable for use with the microbes and methods of the
invention include, without limitation, those listed in Table 7.
[0315]     Table 7. Fatty acyl-CoA reductases listed by GenBank accession numbers.
 NP_187805, AB014927, NP_001049083, CAN83375, NP_191229, EAZ42242,
 EAZ06453, CAD30696, BAD31814, NP_190040, AAD38039, CAD30692, CAN81280,
                                                 85

I NP_197642, NP_190041, AAL15288, and NP_190042
[0316]    Fatty aldehyde decarbonylases suitable for use with the microbes and methods of
the invention include, without limitation, those listed in Table 8.
[0317]    Table 8. Fatty aldehyde decarbonylases listed by GenBank accession numbers.
  NP_850932, ABN07985, CAN60676, AAC23640, CAA65199, AAC24373, CAE03390,
  ABD28319, NP_181306, EAZ31322, CAN63491, EAY94825, EAY86731, CAL55686,
  XP_001420263, EAZ23849, NP_200588, NP_001063227, CAN83072, AAR90847, and
  AAR97643
[0318]    Combinations of naturally co-expressed fatty acyl-ACP thioesterases and acyl
carrier proteins are suitable for use with the microbes and methods of the invention.
[0319]    Additional examples of hydrocarbon or lipid modification enzymes include amino
acid sequences contained in, referenced in, or encoded by nucleic acid sequences contained
or referenced in, any of the following US patents: 6,610,527; 6,451,576; 6,429,014;
6,342,380; 6,265,639; 6,194,185; 6,114,160; 6,083,731; 6,043,072; 5,994,114; 5,891,697;
5,871,988; 6,265,639, and further described in GenBank Accession numbers: AA018435;
ZP_00513891; Q38710; AAK60613; AAK60610; AAK60611; NP_113747; CAB75874;
AAK60612; AAF20201; BAA11024; AF205791; and CAA03710.
[0320]    Other enzymes in the lipid biosynthetic pathways are also suitable for use with
microbes and methods of the invention. For example, keto acyl-ACP synthase (Kas)
enzymes work in conjunction with some of the above listed enzymes in the lipid biosynthetic
pathway. There different classes of Kas enzymes: Kas I participates in successive
condensation steps between the ever-growing acyl ACP chains and malonyl-ACP. Kas II
typically participates in the final condensation step leading from C16:0-ACP to C18:0-ACP
incorporating malonyl-ACP. As such, in higher plants and some microalgae species/strains
that synthesize predominantly C16-C18:0 fatty acids (and their unsaturated derivatives), Kas
II enzymes interact with products of FatA genes (acyl-ACP thioesterases).
[0321]    Acyl-ACP thioesterases are the terminators of higher plant (and some microalgal
species) fatty acid biosynthesis, and in most plant species, this is carried out by members of
the FatA gene family, whose role is to terminate elongation at the C16:0 to C18:0 stage. In
species that synthesize shorter chain fatty acids (such as Cuphea, Elaeis, Myristica, or
Umbellularia), a different group of acyl-ACP thioesterases encoded by FatB genes carry out
                                                86

this termination step (see e.g., the codon optimized coding region of Cocos nucifera FatB3-B,
SEQ ID NO: 189). The interaction between Kas II enzymes and acyl-Acp thioesterases is
important for the correct termination of fatty acid chain elongation. As a consequence, in
higher plant species (and microalgal species) that have evolved FatB genes capable of shorter
chain lipid biosynthesis, there has been a corresponding co-evolution of an additional class of
Kas genes, termed Kas IV genes. Kas IV genes are responsible for chain length elongation of
a specific size range of fatty acids, 4-14 carbons in length.
[0322]     Other suitable enzymes for use with the microbes and the methods of the invention
include those that have at least 70% amino acid identity with one of the proteins listed in
Tables 4, 6-8, and that exhibit the corresponding desired enzymatic activity (e.g., cleavage of
a fatty acid from an acyl carrier protein, reduction of an acyl-CoA to an aldehyde or an
alcohol, or conversion of an aldehyde to an alkane). In additional embodiments, the
enzymatic activity is present in a sequence that has at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at
least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, or at least about 99% identity with
one of the above described sequences, all of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if
fully set forth.
[0323]     By selecting the desired combination of exogenous genes to be expressed, one can
tailor the product generated by the microbe, which may then be extracted from the aqueous
biomass. For example, the microbe can contain: (i) an exogenous gene encoding a fatty acyl-
ACP thioesterase; and, optionally, (ii) a naturally co-expressed acyl carrier protein or an acyl
carrier protein otherwise having affinity for the fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (or conversely);
and, optionally, (iii) an exogenous gene encoding a fatty acyl-CoNaldehyde reductase or a
fatty acyl-CoA reductase; and, optionally, (iv) an exogenous gene encoding a fatty aldehyde
reductase or a fatty aldehyde decarbonylase. The microbe, under culture conditions described
herein, synthesizes a fatty acid linked to an ACP and the fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase
catalyzes the cleavage of the fatty acid from the ACP to yield, through further enzymatic
processing, a fatty acyl-CoA molecule. When present, the fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde
reducatase catalyzes the reduction of the acyl-CoA to an alcohol. Similarly, the fatty acyl-
CoA reductase, when present, catalyzes the reduction of the acyl-CoA to an aldehyde. In
those embodiments in which an exogenous gene encoding a fatty acyl-CoA reductase is
present and expressed to yield an aldehyde product, a fatty aldehyde reductase, encoded by
the third exogenous gene, catalyzes the reduction of the aldehyde to an alcohol. Similarly, a
fatty aldehyde decarbonylase catalyzes the conversion of the aldehyde to an alkane or an
alkene, when present.
                                                87

[0324]    In another embodiment, the microbe can contain: (i) an exogenous gene encoding a
fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase; (ii) optionally, a naturally co-expressed acyl carrier protein or an
acyl carrier protein having affinity for the fatty acid acyl-ACP thioesterase; (iii) a mutated
endogenous desaturase gene, wherein the mutation renders the desaturase gene or desaturase
protein inactive, such as a desaturase knockout; (iv) overexpression of an endogenous
stearoyl acyl carrier protein desaturase or the expression of a heterologous SAD; and (v) any
combination of the foregoing.
[0325]    Genes encoding such enzymes, such as fatty acyl ACP thioesterases, can be
obtained from cells already known to exhibit significant lipid production such as Chiarella
protothecoides. Genes already known to have a role in lipid production, e.g., a gene encoding
an enzyme that saturates double bonds, can be transformed individually into recipient cells.
However, to practice the invention it is not necessary to make a priori assumptions as to
which genes are required. Methods for identifiying genes that can alter (improve) lipid
production in microalgae are described in PCT Pub. No.2008/151149.
[0326]    Thus, the present invention provides a microorganism (e.g., a Prototheca cell) that
has been genetically engineered to express a lipid pathway enzyme at an altered level
compared to a wild-type cell of the same species. In some cases, the cell produces more lipid
compared to the wild-type cell when both cells are grown under the same conditions. In
some cases, the cell has been genetically engineered and/or selected to express a lipid
pathway enzyme at a higher level than the wild-type cell. In some cases, the lipid pathway
enzyme is selected from the group consisting of pyruvate dehydrogenase, acetyl-CoA
carboxylase, acyl carrier protein, and glycerol-3 phosphate acyltransferase. In some cases,
the cell has been genetically engineered and/or selected to express a lipid pathway enzyme at
a lower level than the wild-type cell. In at least one embodiment in which the cell expresses
the lipid pathway enzyme at a lower level, the lipid pathway enzyme comprises citrate
synthase.
[0327]    In some embodiments, the cell has been genetically engineered and/or selected to
express a global regulator of fatty acid synthesis at an altered level compared to the wild-type
cell, whereby the expression levels of a plurality of fatty acid synthetic genes are altered
compared to the wild-type cell. In some cases, the lipid pathway enzyme comprises an
enzyme that modifies a fatty acid. In some cases, the lipid pathway enzyme is selected from
a stearoyl-ACP desaturase and a glycerolipid desaturase. In some cases, the cell has been
genetically engineered and/or selected to express a lower level of a lipid pathway enzyme, or
                                                 88

not to express a specific lipid pathway enzyme at all (i.e., wherein a lipid pathway enzyme
has been knockout, or replaced with an exogenous gene).
[0328]     Some microalgae produce significant quantities of non-lipid metabolites, such as,
for example, polysaccharides. Because polysaccharide biosynthesis can use a significant
proportion of the total metabolic energy available to cells, mutagenesis of lipid-producing
cells followed by screening for reduced or eliminated polysaccharide production generates
novel strains that are capable of producing higher yields of lipids.
[0329]     In other embodiments, the present invention is directed to an oil-producing microbe
containing one or more exogenous genes, wherein the exogenous genes encode protein(s)
selected from the group consisting of a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase, a fatty acyl-CoA
reductase, a fatty aldehyde reductase, a fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductase, a fatty aldehyde
decarbonylase, a desaturase, and an acyl carrier protein. In another embodiment, an
endogenous desaturase gene is overexpressed in a micro containing one or more of the above
exogenous genes. In one embodiment, the exogenous gene is in operable linkage with a
promoter, which is inducible or repressible in response to a stimulus. In some cases, the
stimulus is selected from the group consisting of an exogenously provided small molecule,
heat, cold, and limited or no nitrogen in the culture media. In some cases, the exogenous
gene is expressed in a cellular compartment. In some embodiments, the cellular compartment
is selected from the group consisting of a chloroplast, a plastid and a mitochondrion. In some
embodiments the microbe is Prototheca moriformis, Prototheca krugani, Prototheca
stagnora or Prototheca zopfii.
[0330]     In one embodiment, the exogenous gene encodes a fatty acid acyl-ACP thioesterase.
In some cases, the thioesterase encoded by the exogenous gene catalyzes the cleavage of an 8
to 18-carbon fatty acid from an acyl carrier protein (ACP). In some cases, the thioesterase
encoded by the exogenous gene catalyzes the cleavage of a 10 to 14-carbon fatty acid from an
ACP. In one embodiment, the thioesterase encoded by the exogenous gene catalyzes the
cleavage of a 12-carbon fatty acid from an ACP.
[0331]     In one embodiment, the exogenous gene encodes a fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde
reductase. In some cases, the reductase encoded by the exogenous gene catalyzes the
reduction of an 8 to 18-carbon fatty acyl-CoA to a corresponding primary alcohol. In some
cases, the reductase encoded by the exogenous gene catalyzes the reduction of a 10 to 14-
carbon fatty acyl-CoA to a corresponding primary alcohol. In one embodiment, the reductase
encoded by the exogenous gene catalyzes the reduction of a 12-carbon fatty acyl-CoA to
dodecanol.
                                                89

[0332]     The present invention also provides a recombinant Prototheca cell containing two
exogenous genes, wherein a first exogenous gene encodes a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase and a
second exogenous gene encodes a protein selected from the group consisting of a fatty acyl-
CoA reductase, a fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductase, and an acyl carrier protein. In some
cases, the two exogenous genes are each in operable linkage with a promoter, which is
inducible in response to a stimulus. In some cases, each promoter is inducible in response to
an identical stimulus, such as limited or no nitrogen in the culture media. Limitation or
complete lack of nitrogen in the culture media stimulates oil production in some
microorganisms such as Prototheca species, and can be used as a trigger to inducec oil
production to high levels. When used in combination with the genetic engineering methods
disclosed herein, the lipid as a percentage of dry cell weight can be pushed to high levels such
as at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70% and at least 75%;
methods disclosed herein provide for cells with these levels of lipid, wherein the lipid is at
least 1%-5%, preferably at least 4%, C8-C14, at least 0.25%-1 %, preferably at least 0.3%,
C8, at least 1%-5%, preferably at least 2%, ClO, at least 1%-5%, preferably at least 2%, C12,
and at least 1%-5%, preferably at least 2%, C14. In some embodiments the cells are over
10%, over 15%, over 20%, or over 25% lipid by dry cell weight and contain lipid that is at
least 5%, at least 10% or at least 15% C8-C14, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at
least 25% or at least 30% C8-C14, at least 20%, at least 25%, at least 30%, at least 35% or at
least 40%, C8-C14, 5%-40%, preferably 10-30%, C8-C14 and 10%-40%, preferably 20-30%,
C8-C14.
[0333]    The novel oils disclosed herein are distinct from other naturally occurring oils that
are high in mid-chain fatty acids, such as palm oil, palm kernel oil, and coconut oil. For
example, levels of contaminants such as carotenoids are far higher in palm oil and palm
kernel oil than in the oils of the invention. Palm and palm kernel oils in particular contain
alpha and beta carotenes and lycopene in much higher amounts than is in the oils of the
invention. In addition, over 20 different carotenoids are found in palm and palm kernel oil,
whereas the Examples demonstrate that the oils of the invention contain very few carotenoids
species and very low levels. In addition, the levels of vitamin E compounds such as
tocotrienols are far higher in palm, palm kernel, and coconut oil than in the oils of the
invention.
[0334]    In one embodiment, the thioesterase encoded by the first exogenous gene catalyzes
the cleavage of an 8 to 18-carbon fatty acid from an ACP. In some embodiments, the second
exogenous gene encodes a fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductase which catalyzes the reduction
                                                90

of an 8 to 18-carbon fatty acyl-CoA to a corresponding primary alcohol. In some cases, the
thioesterase encoded by the first exogenous gene catalyzes the cleavage of a 10 to 14-carbon
fatty acid from an ACP, and the reductase encoded by the second exogenous gene catalyzes
the reduction of a 10 to 14-carbon fatty acyl-CoA to the corresponding primary alcohol,
wherein the thioesterase and the reductase act on the same carbon chain length. In one
embodiment, the thioesterase encoded by the first exogenous gene catalyzes the cleavage of a
12-carbon fatty acid from an ACP, and the reductase encoded by the second exogenous gene
catalyzes the reduction of a 12-carbon fatty acyl-CoA to dodecanol. In some embodiments,
the second exogenous gene encodes a fatty acyl-CoA reductase which catalyzes the reduction
of an 8 to 18-carbon fatty acyl-CoA to a corresponding aldehyde. In some embodiments, the
second exogenous gene encodes an acyl carrier protein that is naturally co-expressed with the
fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase.
[0335]    In some embodiments, the second exogenous gene encodes a fatty acyl-CoA
reductase, and the microbe further contains a third exogenous gene encoding a fatty aldehyde
decarbonylase. In some cases, the thioesterase encoded by the first exogenous gene catalyzes
the cleavage of an 8 to 18-carbon fatty acid from an ACP, the reductase encoded by the
second exogenous gene catalyzes the reduction of an 8 to 18-carbon fatty acyl-CoA to a
corresponding fatty aldehyde, and the decarbonylase encoded by the third exogenous gene
catalyzes the conversion of an 8 to 18-carbon fatty aldehyde to a corresponding alkane,
wherein the thioesterase, the reductase, and the decarbonylase act on the same carbon chain
length.
[0336]    In some embodiments, the second exogenous gene encodes an acyl carrier protein,
and the microbe further contains a third exogenous gene encoding a protein selected from the
group consisting of a fatty acyl-CoA reductase and a fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductase. In
some cases, the third exogenous gene encodes a fatty acyl-CoA reductase, and the microbe
further contains a fourth exogenous gene encoding a fatty aldehyde decarbonylase.
[0337]    The present invention also provides methods for producing an alcohol comprising
culturing a population of recombinant microorganisms (e.g., Prototheca cells) in a culture
medium, wherein the cells contain (i) a first exogenous gene encoding a fatty acyl-ACP
thioesterase, and (ii) a second exogenous gene encoding a fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductase,
and the cells synthesize a fatty acid linked to an acyl carrier protein (ACP), the fatty acyl-
ACP thioesterase catalyzes the cleavage of the fatty acid from the ACP to yield, through
further processing, a fatty acyl-CoA, and the fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductase catalyzes the
reduction of the acyl-CoA to an alcohol.
                                                91

[0338]     The present invention also provides methods of producing a lipid molecule in a
microorganism (e.g., a Prototheca cell). In one embodiment, the method comprises culturing
a population of Prototheca cells in a culture medium, wherein the cells contain (i) a first
exogenous gene encoding a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase, and (ii) a second exogenous gene
encoding a fatty acyl-CoA reductase, and wherein the microbes synthesize a fatty acid linked
to an acyl carrier protein (ACP), the fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase catalyzes the cleavage of the
fatty acid from the ACP to yield, through further processing, a fatty acyl-CoA, and the fatty
acyl-CoA reductase catalyzes the reduction of the acyl-CoA to an aldehyde.
[0339]     The present invention also provides methods of producing a fatty acid molecule
having a specified carbon chain length in a microorganism (e.g., a Prototheca cell). In one
embodiment, the method comprises culturing a population of lipid-producing Prototheca
cells in a culture medium, wherein the microbes contain an exogenous gene encoding a fatty
acyl-ACP thioesterase having an activity specific or preferential to a certain carbon chain
length, such as 8, 10, 12 or 14 carbon atoms, and wherein the microbes synthesize a fatty acid
linked to an acyl carrier protein (ACP) and the thioesterase catalyzes the cleavage of the fatty
acid from the ACP when the fatty acid has been synthesized to the specific carbon chain
length.
[0340]     In the various embodiments described above, the microorganism (e.g., a Prototheca
cell) can contain at least one exogenous gene encoding a lipid pathway enzyme. In some
cases, the lipid pathway enzyme is selected from the group consisting of a stearoyl-ACP
desaturase, a glycerolipid desaturase, a pyruvate dehydrogenase, an acetyl-CoA carboxylase,
an acyl carrier protein, and a glycerol-3 phosphate acyltransferase. In other cases, the
microorganism (e.g.,Prototheca cell) contains a lipid modification enzyme selected from the
group consisting of a fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase, a fatty acyl-CoA/aldehyde reductase, a
fatty acyl-CoA reductase, a fatty aldehyde reductase, a fatty aldehyde decarbonylase, and/or
an acyl carrier protein.
[0341]     A number of exemplary transformation cassettes or constructs used to express a
variety of the lipid pathway enzymes and lipid modification enzymes discussed herein are
presented in the Examples. Other useful constructs, without limitation, are listed in Table 37,
below.
[0342]     Table 37. Exemplary transformation constructs, codon-optimized coding regions,
and enzymes.
  Transformation Construct/Coding region/Enzyme                                      SEQ ID
                                                                                        NO
                                                92

C. hookeriana ClO:O specific thioesterase construct                           243
coding region for C. hookeriana ClO:O specific thioesterase (codon-           244
optimized)
C. hookeriana KAS IV enzyme construct                                         245
coding region for C. hookeriana KAS IV enzyme (codon-optimized)               246
C. hookeriana KAS IV enzyme                                                   247
C. hookeriana ClO:O specific thioesterase plus C. hookeriana KAS IV           248
enzyme construct
coding region for C. lanceolata ClO:O specific thioesterase with UTEX 1435    249
L'112 fatty acid desaturase
U. californica C12:0 specific thioesterase construct                          250
coding region for U. californica C12:0 specific thioesterase (codon-          251
optimized)
G. mangostana C16:0 thioesterase construct                                    252
coding region for G. mangostana C16:0 thioesterase (codon-optimized)          253
B. napus C18:0 thioesterase construct                                         254
coding region for B. napus C18:0 thioesterase (codon-optimized)               255
0. europaea stearoyl-ACP desaturase construct                                 256
coding region for 0. europaea stearoyl-ACP desaturase (codon-optimized)       257
C. hookeriana C16:0 thioesterase construct                                    258
coding region for C. hookeriana C16:0 thioesterase (codon-optimized)          259
E. guineensis C16:0 thioesterase construct                                    260
coding region for E. guineensis C16:0 thioesterase (codon-optimized)          261
C. tinctorius ACP-thioesterase at L'112 fatty acid desaturase locus construct 262
coding region for C. tinctorius ACP-thioesterase (codon-optimized)            263
M. fragrans C14:0-C18:0 broad specificity thioesterase construct              264
coding region for M.fragrans C14:0-C18:0 broad specificity thioesterase       265
(codon-optimized)
coding region for M. fragrans C: 14:0 specific thioesterase                   266
M. fragrans C14:0 specfic thioesterase with L'112 FAD transit peptide         267
Ricinus communis ACP-thioesterase construct                                   268
coding region for Ricinus communis ACP-thioesterase (codon-optimized)         269
C. camphora C14:0 thioesterase construct                                      270
coding region for C. camphora C14:0 thioesterase (codon-optimized)            271
C. camphora C14:0 specific thioesterase construct                             272
                                               93

 C. camphora CI4:0 specific thioesterase construct                                      273
  U. Americana C10:0-CI6:0 specific thioesterase in a SAD locus                         274
 coding region for U. Americana C10:0-CI6:0 specific thioesterase (codon-               275
 optimized)
 C. wrightii KASAI + C. wrightii FatB2 thioesterase + suc2 construct                    276
 coding region for C. wrightii KASAI (codon-optimized)                                  277
 coding region for C. wrightii FatB2 thioesterase (codon-optimized)                     278
VI.       FUELS AND CHEMICALS PRODUCTION
[0343]     For the production of fuel in accordance with the methods of the invention lipids
produced by cells of the invention are harvested, or otherwise collected, by any convenient
means. Lipids can be isolated by whole cell extraction. The cells are first disrupted, and then
intracellular and cell membrane/cell wall-associated lipids as well as extracellular
hydrocarbons can be separated from the cell mass, such as by use of centrifugation as
described above. Intracellular lipids produced in microorganisms are, in some embodiments,
extracted after lysing the cells of the microorganism. Once extracted, the lipids are further
refined to produce oils, fuels, or oleochemicals.
[0344]     After completion of culturing, the microorganisms can be separated from the
fermentation broth. Optionally, the separation is effected by centrifugation to generate a
concentrated paste. Centrifugation does not remove significant amounts of intracellular water
from the microorganisms and is not a drying step. The biomass can then optionally be washed
with a washing solution (e.g., DI water) to get rid of the fermentation broth and debris.
Optionally, the washed microbial biomass may also be dried (oven dried, lyophilized, etc.)
prior to cell disruption. Alternatively, cells can be lysed without separation from some or all
of the fermentation broth when the fermentation is complete. For example, the cells can be at
a ratio of less than I: I v:v cells to extracellular liquid when the cells are lysed.
[0345]     Microorganisms containing a lipid can be lysed to produce a lysate. As detailed
herein, the step of lysing a microorganism (also referred to as cell lysis) can be achieved by
any convenient means, including heat-induced lysis, adding a base, adding an acid, using
enzymes such as proteases and polysaccharide degradation enzymes such as amylases, using
ultrasound, mechanical lysis, using osmotic shock, infection with a lytic virus, and/or
expression of one or more lytic genes. Lysis is performed to release intracellular molecules
which have been produced by the microorganism. Each of these methods for lysing a
microorganism can be used as a single method or in combination simultaneously or
                                                   94

sequentially. The extent of cell disruption can be observed by microscopic analysis. Using
one or more of the methods described herein, typically more than 70% cell breakage is
observed. Preferably, cell breakage is more than 80%, more preferably more than 90% and
most preferred about 100%.
[0346]    In particular embodiments, the microorganism is lysed after growth, for example to
increase the exposure of cellular lipid and/or hydrocarbon for extraction or further
processing. The timing of lipase expression (e.g., via an inducible promoter) or cell lysis can
be adjusted to optimize the yield of lipids and/or hydrocarbons. Below are described a
number of lysis techniques. These techniques can be used individually or in combination.
[0347]    In one embodiment of the present invention, the step of lysing a microorganism
comprises heating of a cellular suspension containing the microorganism. In this
embodiment, the fermentation broth containing the microorganisms (or a suspension of
microorganisms isolated from the fermentation broth) is heated until the microorganisms, i.e.,
the cell walls and membranes of microorganisms degrade or breakdown. Typically,
temperatures applied are at least 50°C. Higher temperatures, such as, at least 30°C at least
60°C, at least 70°C, at least 80°C, at least 90°C, at least 100°C, at least l 10°C, at least 120°C,
at least 130°C or higher are used for more efficient cell lysis. Lysing cells by heat treatment
can be performed by boiling the microorganism. Alternatively, heat treatment (without
boiling) can be performed in an autoclave. The heat treated lysate may be cooled for further
treatment. Cell disruption can also be performed by steam treatment, i.e., through addition of
pressurized steam. Steam treatment of microalgae for cell disruption is described, for
example, in U.S. Patent No. 6,750,048. In some embodiments, steam treatment may be
achieved by sparging steam into the fermentor and maintaining the broth at a desired
temperature for less than about 90 minutes, preferably less than about 60 minutes, and more
preferably less than about 30 minutes.
[0348]    In another embodiment of the present invention, the step of lysing a microorganism
comprises adding a base to a cellular suspension containing the microorganism. The base
should be strong enough to hydrolyze at least a portion of the proteinaceous compounds of
the microorganisms used. Bases which are useful for solubilizing proteins are known in the
art of chemistry. Exemplary bases which are useful in the methods of the present invention
include, but are not limited to, hydroxides, carbonates and bicarbonates of lithium, sodium,
potassium, calcium, and mixtures thereof. A preferred base is KOH. Base treatment of
microalgae for cell disruption is described, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 6,750,048.
                                                 95

[0349]     In another embodiment of the present invention, the step of lysing a microorganism
comprises adding an acid to a cellular suspension containing the microorganism. Acid lysis
can be effected using an acid at a concentration of 10-500 mN or preferably 40-160 nM. Acid
lysis is preferably performed at above room temperature (e.g., at 40-160°, and preferably a
temperature of 50-130°. For moderate temperatures (e.g., room temperature to 100°C and
particularly room temperature to 65°, acid treatment can usefully be combined with
sonication or other cell disruption methods.
[0350]     In another embodiment of the present invention, the step of lysing a microorganism
comprises lysing the microorganism by using an enzyme. Preferred enzymes for lysing a
microorganism are proteases and polysaccharide-degrading enzymes such as hemicellulase
(e.g., hemicellulase from Aspergillus niger; Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO; #H2125),
pectinase (e.g., pectinase from Rhizopus sp.; Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO; #P2401),
Mannaway 4.0 L (Novozymes), cellulase (e.g., cellulose from Trichoderma viride; Sigma
Aldrich, St. Louis, MO; #C9422), and driselase (e.g., driselase from Basidiamycetes sp.;
Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO; #D9515.
[0351]     In other embodiments of the present invention, lysis is accomplished using an
enzyme such as, for example, a cellulase such as a polysaccharide-degrading enzyme,
optionally from Chiarella or a Chiarella virus, or a proteases, such as Streptamyces griseus
protease, chymotrypsin, proteinase K, proteases listed in Degradation of Polylactide by
Commercial Proteases, Oda Yet al., Journal of Polymers and the Environment, Volume 8,
Number 1, January 2000, pp. 29-32(4), Alcalase 2.4 FG (Novozymes), and Flavourzyme 100
L (Novozymes). Any combination of a protease and a polysaccharide-degrading enzyme can
also be used, including any combination of the preceding proteases and polysaccharide-
degrading enzymes.
[0352]     In another embodiment, lysis can be performed using an expeller press. In this
process, biomass is forced through a screw-type device at high pressure, lysing the cells and
causing the intracellular lipid to be released and separated from the protein and fiber (and
other components) in the cell.
[0353]     In another embodiment of the present invention, the step of lysing a microorganism
is performed by using ultrasound, i.e., sonication. Thus, cells can also by lysed with high
frequency sound. The sound can be produced electronically and transported through a
metallic tip to an appropriately concentrated cellular suspension. This sonication (or
ultrasonication) disrupts cellular integrity based on the creation of cavities in cell suspension.
                                                96

[0354]    In another embodiment of the present invention, the step of lysing a microorganism
is performed by mechanical lysis. Cells can be lysed mechanically and optionally
homogenized to facilitate hydrocarbon (e.g., lipid) collection. For example, a pressure
disrupter can be used to pump a cell containing slurry through a restricted orifice valve. High
pressure (up to 1500 bar) is applied, followed by an instant expansion through an exiting
nozzle. Cell disruption is accomplished by three different mechanisms: impingement on the
valve, high liquid shear in the orifice, and sudden pressure drop upon discharge, causing an
explosion of the cell. The method releases intracellular molecules. Alternatively, a ball mill
can be used. In a ball mill, cells are agitated in suspension with small abrasive particles, such
as beads. Cells break because of shear forces, grinding between beads, and collisions with
beads. The beads disrupt the cells to release cellular contents. Cells can also be disrupted by
shear forces, such as with the use of blending (such as with a high speed or Waring blender as
examples), the french press, or even centrifugation in case of weak cell walls, to disrupt cells.
[0355]    In another embodiment of the present invention, the step of lysing a microorganism
is performed by applying an osmotic shock.
[0356]    In another embodiment of the present invention, the step of lysing a microorganism
comprises infection of the microorganism with a lytic virus. A wide variety of viruses are
known to lyse microorganisms suitable for use in the present invention, and the selection and
use of a particular lytic virus for a particular microorganism is within the level of skill in the
art. For example, paramecium burs aria chlorella virus (PBCV-1) is the prototype of a group
(family Phycodnaviridae, genus Chlorovirus) of large, icosahedral, plaque-forming, double-
stranded DNA viruses that replicate in, and lyse, certain unicellular, eukaryotic chlorella-like
green algae. Accordingly, any susceptible microalgae can be lysed by infecting the culture
with a suitable chlorella virus. Methods of infecting species of Chiarella with a chlorella
virus are known. See for example Adv. Virus Res. 2006;66:293-336; Virology, 1999 Apr
25;257(1):15-23; Virology, 2004 Jan 5;318(1):214-23; Nucleic Acids Symp. Ser.
2000;(44):161-2; J. Viral. 2006 Mar;80(5):2437-44; and Annu. Rev. Microbial. 1999;53:447-
94.
[0357]    In another embodiment of the present invention, the step of lysing a microorganism
comprises autolysis. In this embodiment, a microorganism according to the invention is
genetically engineered to produce a lytic protein that will lyse the microorganism. This lytic
gene can be expressed using an inducible promoter so that the cells can first be grown to a
desirable density in a fermentor, followed by induction of the promoter to express the lytic
gene to lyse the cells. In one embodiment, the lytic gene encodes a polysaccharide-degrading
                                                  97

enzyme. In certain other embodiments, the lytic gene is a gene from a lytic virus. Thus, for
example, a lytic gene from a Chlorella virus can be expressed in an algal cell; see Virology
260, 308-315 (1999); FEMS Microbiology Letters 180 (1999) 45-53; Virology 263, 376-387
(1999); and Virology 230, 361-368 (1997). Expression of lytic genes is preferably done using
an inducible promoter, such as a promoter active in microalgae that is induced by a stimulus
such as the presence of a small molecule, light, heat, and other stimuli.
[0358]    Various methods are available for separating lipids from cellular lysates produced
by the above methods. For example, lipids and lipid derivatives such as fatty aldehydes, fatty
alcohols, and hydrocarbons such as alkanes can be extracted with a hydrophobic solvent
such as hexane (see Frenz et al. 1989, Enzyme Microb. Technol., 11:717). Lipids and lipid
derivatives can also be extracted using liquefaction (see for example Sawayama et al. 1999,
Biomass and Bioenergy 17:33-39 and Inoue et al. 1993, Biomass Bioenergy 6(4):269-274);
oil liquefaction (see for example Minowa et al. 1995, Fuel 74(12): 1735-1738); and
supercritical C0 2 extraction (see for example Mendes et al. 2003, Inorganica Chimica Acta
356:328-334). Miao and Wu describe a protocol of the recovery of microalgal lipid from a
culture of Chiarella prototheocoides in which the cells were harvested by centrifugation,
washed with distilled water and dried by freeze drying. The resulting cell powder was
pulverized in a mortar and then extracted with n-hexane. Miao and Wu, Biosource
Technology (2006) 97:841-846.
[0359]    Thus, lipids, lipid derivatives and hydrocarbons generated by the microorganisms of
the present invention can be recovered by extraction with an organic solvent. In some cases,
the preferred organic solvent is hexane. Typically, the organic solvent is added directly to the
lysate without prior separation of the lysate components. In one embodiment, the lysate
generated by one or more of the methods described above is contacted with an organic
solvent for a period of time sufficient to allow the lipid and/or hydrocarbon components to
form a solution with the organic solvent. In some cases, the solution can then be further
refined to recover specific desired lipid or hydrocarbon components. Hexane extraction
methods are well known in the art.
[0360]    Lipids and lipid derivatives such as fatty aldehydes, fatty alcohols, and
hydrocarbons such as alkanes produced by cells as described herein can be modified by the
use of one or more enzymes, including a lipase, as described above. When the hydrocarbons
are in the extracellular environment of the cells, the one or more enzymes can be added to
that environment under conditions in which the enzyme modifies the hydrocarbon or
completes its synthesis from a hydrocarbon precursor. Alternatively, the hydrocarbons can be
                                                98

partially, or completely, isolated from the cellular material before addition of one or more
catalysts such as enzymes. Such catalysts are exogenously added, and their activity occurs
outside the cell or in vitro.
[0361]     Thus, lipids and hydrocarbons produced by cells in vivo, or enzymatically modified
in vitro, as described herein can be optionally further processed by conventional means. The
processing can include "cracking" to reduce the size, and thus increase the hydrogen:carbon
ratio, of hydrocarbon molecules. Catalytic and thermal cracking methods are routinely used
in hydrocarbon and triglyceride oil processing. Catalytic methods involve the use of a
catalyst, such as a solid acid catalyst. The catalyst can be silica-alumina or a zeolite, which
result in the heterolytic, or asymmetric, breakage of a carbon-carbon bond to result in a
carbocation and a hydride anion. These reactive intermediates then undergo either
rearrangement or hydride transfer with another hydrocarbon. The reactions can thus
regenerate the intermediates to result in a self-propagating chain mechanism. Hydrocarbons
can also be processed to reduce, optionally to zero, the number of carbon-carbon double, or
triple, bonds therein. Hydrocarbons can also be processed to remove or eliminate a ring or
cyclic structure therein. Hydrocarbons can also be processed to increase the hydrogen:carbon
ratio. This can include the addition of hydrogen ("hydrogenation") and/or the "cracking" of
hydrocarbons into smaller hydrocarbons.
[0362]     Thermal methods involve the use of elevated temperature and pressure to reduce
hydrocarbon size. An elevated temperature of about 800°C and pressure of about 700kPa can
be used. These conditions generate "light," a term that is sometimes used to refer to
hydrogen-rich hydrocarbon molecules (as distinguished from photon flux), while also
generating, by condensation, heavier hydrocarbon molecules which are relatively depleted of
hydrogen. The methodology provides homolytic, or symmetrical, breakage and produces
alkenes, which may be optionally enzymatically saturated as described above.
[0363]     Catalytic and thermal methods are standard in plants for hydrocarbon processing
and oil refining. Thus hydrocarbons produced by cells as described herein can be collected
and processed or refined via conventional means. See Hillen et al. (Biotechnology and
Bioengineering, Vol. XXIV:l93-205 (1982)) for a report on hydrocracking of microalgae-
produced hydrocarbons. In alternative embodiments, the fraction is treated with another
catalyst, such as an organic compound, heat, and/or an inorganic compound. For processing
of lipids into biodiesel, a transesterification process is used as described below in this
Section.
                                                  99

[0364]    Hydrocarbons produced via methods of the present invention are useful in a variety
of industrial applications. For example, the production of linear alkylbenzene sulfonate
(LAS), an anionic surfactant used in nearly all types of detergents and cleaning preparations,
utilizes hydrocarbons generally comprising a chain of 10-14 carbon atoms. See, for example,
US Patent Nos.: 6,946,430; 5,506,201; 6,692,730; 6,268,517; 6,020,509; 6,140,302;
5,080,848; and 5,567,359. Surfactants, such as LAS, can be used in the manfacture of
personal care compositions and detergents, such as those described in US Patent Nos.:
5,942,479; 6,086,903; 5,833,999; 6,468,955; and 6,407,044.
[0365]    Increasing interest is directed to the use of hydrocarbon components of biological
origin in fuels, such as biodiesel, renewable diesel, and jet fuel, since renewable biological
starting materials that may replace starting materials derived from fossil fuels are available,
and the use thereof is desirable. There is an urgent need for methods for producing
hydrocarbon components from biological materials. The present invention fulfills this need
by providing methods for production of biodiesel, renewable diesel, and jet fuel using the
lipids generated by the methods described herein as a biological material to produce
biodiesel, renewable diesel, and jet fuel.
[0366]    Traditional diesel fuels are petroleum distillates rich in paraffinic hydrocarbons.
They have boiling ranges as broad as 370° to 780°F, which are suitable for combustion in a
compression ignition engine, such as a diesel engine vehicle. The American Society of
Testing and Materials (ASTM) establishes the grade of diesel according to the boiling range,
along with allowable ranges of other fuel properties, such as cetane number, cloud point,
flash point, viscosity, aniline point, sulfur content, water content, ash content, copper strip
corrosion, and carbon residue. Technically, any hydrocarbon distillate material derived from
biomass or otherwise that meets the appropriate ASTM specification can be defined as diesel
fuel (ASTM D975), jet fuel (ASTM D1655), or as biodiesel if it is a fatty acid methyl ester
(ASTM D6751).
[0367]    After extraction, lipid and/or hydrocarbon components recovered from the microbial
biomass described herein can be subjected to chemical treatment to manufacture a fuel for
use in diesel vehicles and jet engines.
[0368]    Biodiesel is a liquid which varies in color - between golden and dark brown -
depending on the production feedstock. It is practically immiscible with water, has a high
boiling point and low vapor pressure. Biodiesel refers to a diesel-equivalent processed fuel
for use in diesel-engine vehicles. Biodiesel is biodegradable and non-toxic. An additional
benefit of biodiesel over conventional diesel fuel is lower engine wear. Typically, biodiesel
                                                 100

comprises C14-C18 alkyl esters. Various processes convert biomass or a lipid produced and
isolated as described herein to diesel fuels. A preferred method to produce biodiesel is by
transesterification of a lipid as described herein. A preferred alkyl ester for use as biodiesel is
a methyl ester or ethyl ester.
[0369]    Biodiesel produced by a method described herein can be used alone or blended with
conventional diesel fuel at any concentration in most modern diesel-engine vehicles. When
blended with conventional diesel fuel (petroleum diesel), biodiesel may be present from
about 0.1 % to about 99.9%. Much of the world uses a system known as the "B" factor to state
the amount of biodiesel in any fuel mix. For example, fuel containing 20% biodiesel is
labeled B20. Pure biodiesel is referred to as B 100.
[0370]    Biodiesel can also be used as a heating fuel in domestic and commercial boilers.
Existing oil boilers may contain rubber parts and may require conversion to run on biodiesel.
The conversion process is usually relatively simple, involving the exchange of rubber parts
for synthetic parts due to biodiesel being a strong solvent. Due to its strong solvent power,
burning biodiesel will increase the efficiency of boilers. Biodiesel can be used as an additive
in formulations of diesel to increase the lubricity of pure Ultra-Low Sulfur Diesel (ULSD)
fuel, which is advantageous because it has virtually no sulfur content. Biodiesel is a better
solvent than petrodiesel and can be used to break down deposits of residues in the fuel lines
of vehicles that have previously been run on petrodiesel.
[0371]    Biodiesel can be produced by transesterification of triglycerides contained in oil-
rich biomass. Thus, in another aspect of the present invention a method for producing
biodiesel is provided. In a preferred embodiment, the method for producing biodiesel
comprises the steps of (a) cultivating a lipid-containing microorganism using methods
disclosed herein (b) lysing a lipid-containing microorganism to produce a lysate, (c) isolating
lipid from the lysed microorganism, and (d) transesterifying the lipid composition, whereby
biodiesel is produced. Methods for growth of a microorganism, lysing a microorganism to
produce a lysate, treating the lysate in a medium comprising an organic solvent to form a
heterogeneous mixture and separating the treated lysate into a lipid composition have been
described above and can also be used in the method of producing biodiesel.
[0372]    The lipid profile of the biodiesel is usually highly similar to the lipid profile of the
feedstock oil. Other oils provided by the methods and compositions of the invention can be
subjected to transesterification to yield biodiesel with lipid profiles including (a) at least 1%-
5%, preferably at least 4%, C8-C14; (b) at least 0.25%-1 %, preferably at least 0.3%, C8; (c)
                                                101

at least 1%-5%, preferably at least 2%, CIO; (d) at least 1%-5%, preferably at least 2%, Cl2;
and (3) at least 20%-40%, preferably at least 30%, C8-Cl4.
[0373]       Lipid compositions can be subjected to transesterification to yield long-chain fatty
acid esters useful as biodiesel. Preferred transesterification reactions are outlined below and
include base catalyzed transesterification and transesterification using recombinant lipases. In
a base-catalyzed transesterification process, the triacylglycerides are reacted with an alcohol,
such as methanol or ethanol, in the presence of an alkaline catalyst, typically potassium
hydroxide. This reaction forms methyl or ethyl esters and glycerin (glycerol) as a byproduct.
[0374]       Animal and plant oils are typically made of triglycerides which are esters of free
fatty acids with the trihydric alcohol, glycerol. In transesterification, the glycerol in a
triacylglyceride (TAG) is replaced with a short-chain alcohol such as methanol or ethanol. A
typical reaction scheme is as follows:
     O-OCR 1
 F
                             cat. base
     O--OCR 2
                              3 EtOH
     0-0CR 3                                           Ethyl esters of fatty acids        Glycerol
    Tri~lvceride
[0375]       In this reaction, the alcohol is deprotonated with a base to make it a stronger
nucleophile. Commonly, ethanol or methanol is used in vast excess (up to 50-fold).
Normally, this reaction will proceed either exceedingly slowly or not at all. Heat, as well as
an acid or base can be used to help the reaction proceed more quickly. The acid or base are
not consumed by the transesterification reaction, thus they are not reactants but catalysts.
Almost all biodiesel has been produced using the base-catalyzed technique as it requires only
low temperatures and pressures and produces over 98% conversion yield (provided the
starting oil is low in moisture and free fatty acids).
[0376]       Transesterification has also been carried out, as discussed above, using an enzyme,
such as a lipase instead of a base. Lipase-catalyzed transesterification can be carried out, for
example, at a temperature between the room temperature and 80° C, and a mole ratio of the
TAG to the lower alcohol of greater than 1:1, preferably about 3:1. Lipases suitable for use in
transesterification include, but are not limited to, those listed in Table 9. Other examples of
lipases useful for transesterification are found in, e.g. U.S. Patent Nos. 4,798,793; 4,940,845
5,156,963; 5,342,768; 5,776,741 and W089/01032. Such lipases include, but are not limited
to, lipases produced by microorganisms of Rhizopus, Aspergillus, Candida, Mucor,
Pseudomonas, Rhizomucor, Candida, and Humicola and pancreas lipase.
[0377]       Table 9. Lipases suitable for use in transesterification.
                                                   102

 Aspergillus niger lipase ABG73614, Candida antarctica lipase B (novozym-435)
  CAA83122, Candida cylindracea lipase AAR24090, Candida lipolytica lipase (Lipase L;
  Amano Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.), Candida rugosa lipase (e.g., Lipase-OF; Meito Sangyo
  Co., Ltd.), Mucor miehei lipase (Lipozyme IM 20), Pseudomonasfluorescens lipase
  AAA25882, Rhizopus j aponicas lipase (Lilipase A-1 OFG) Q7M4U7_1, Rhizomucor
  miehei lipase B34959, Rhizopus oryzae lipase (Lipase F) AAF32408, Serratia marcescens
  lipase (SM Enzyme) ABI13521, Thermomyces lanuginosa lipase CAB58509, Lipase P
  (Nagase ChemteX Corporation), and Lipase QLM (Meito Sangyo Co., Ltd., Nagoya,
  Japan)
[0378]     One challenge to using a lipase for the production of fatty acid esters suitable for
biodiesel is that the price of lipase is much higher than the price of sodium hydroxide
(NaOH) used by the strong base process. This challenge has been addressed by using an
immobilized lipase, which can be recycled. However, the activity of the immobilized lipase
must be maintained after being recycled for a minimum number of cycles to allow a lipase-
based process to compete with the strong base process in terms of the production cost.
Immobilized lipases are subject to poisoning by the lower alcohols typically used in
transesterification. U.S. Patent No. 6,398,707 (issued June 4, 2002 to Wu et al.) describes
methods for enhancing the activity of immobilized lipases and regenerating immobilized
lipases having reduced activity. Some suitable methods include immersing an immobilized
lipase in an alcohol having a carbon atom number not less than 3 for a period of time,
preferably from 0.5-48 hours, and more preferably from 0.5-1.5 hours. Some suitable
methods also include washing a deactivated immobilized lipase with an alcohol having a
carbon atom number not less than 3 and then immersing the deactivated immobilized lipase
in a vegetable oil for 0.5-48 hours.
[0379]     In particular embodiments, a recombinant lipase is expressed in the same
microorganisms that produce the lipid on which the lipase acts. Suitable recombinant lipases
include those listed above in Table 9 and/or having GenBank Accession numbers listed above
in Table 9, or a polypeptide that has at least 70% amino acid identity with one of the lipases
listed above in Table 9 and that exhibits lipase activity. In additional embodiments, the
enzymatic activity is present in a sequence that has at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at
least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, or at least about 99% identity with
one of the above described sequences, all of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if
                                                103

fully set forth. DNA encoding the lipase and selectable marker is preferably codon-optimized
cDNA. Methods of recoding genes for expression in microalgae are described in US Patent
7,135,290.
[0380]     The common international standard for biodiesel is EN 14214. ASTM D6751 is the
most common biodiesel standard referenced in the United States and Canada. Germany uses
DIN EN 14214 and the UK requires compliance with BS EN 14214. Basic industrial tests to
determine whether the products conform to these standards typically include gas
chromatography, HPLC, and others. Biodiesel meeting the quality standards is very non-
toxic, with a toxicity rating (LDso) of greater than 50 mUkg.
[0381]     Although biodiesel that meets the ASTM standards has to be non-toxic, there can be
contaminants which tend to crystallize and/or precipitate and fall out of solution as sediment.
Sediment formation is particularly a problem when biodiesel is used at lower temperatures.
The sediment or precipitates may cause problems such as decreasing fuel flow, clogging fuel
lines, clogging filters, etc. Processes are well-known in the art that specifically deal with the
removal of these contaminants and sediments in biodiesel in order to produce a higher quality
product. Examples for such processes include, but are not limited to, pretreatment of the oil to
remove contaiminants such as phospholipids and free fatty acids (e.g., degumming, caustic
refining and silica adsorbant filtration) and cold filtration. Cold filtration is a process that was
developed specifically to remove any particulates and sediments that are present in the
biodiesel after production. This process cools the biodiesel and filters out any sediments or
precipitates that might form when the fuel is used at a lower temperature. Such a process is
well known in the art and is described in US Patent Application Publication No. 2007-
017 5091. Suitable methods may include cooling the biodiesel to a temperature of less than
about 38°C so that the impurities and contaminants precipitate out as particulates in the
biodiesel liquid. Diatomaceous earth or other filtering material may then added to the cooled
biodiesel to form a slurry, which may then filtered through a pressure leaf or other type of
filter to remove the particulates. The filtered biodiesel may then be run through a polish filter
to remove any remaining sediments and diatomaceous earth, so as to produce the final
biodiesel product.
[0382]     Example 13 describes the production of biodiesel using triglyceride oil from
Prototheca moriformis. The Cold Soak Filterability by the ASTM D6751 Al method of the
biodiesel produced in Example 13 was 120 seconds for a volume of 300ml. This test
involves filtration of 300 ml of B 100, chilled to 40°F for 16 hours, allowed to warm to room
temp, and filtered under vacuum using 0. 7 micron glass fiber filter with stainless steel
                                                104

support. Oils of the invention can be transesterified to generate biodiesel with a cold soak
time of less than 120 seconds, less than 100 seconds, and less than 90 seconds.
[0383]    Subsequent processes may also be used if the biodiesel will be used in particularly
cold temperatures. Such processes include winterization and fractionation. Both processes are
designed to improve the cold flow and winter performance of the fuel by lowering the cloud
point (the temperature at which the biodiesel starts to crystallize). There are several
approaches to winterizing biodiesel. One approach is to blend the biodiesel with petroleum
diesel. Another approach is to use additives that can lower the cloud point of biodiesel.
Another approach is to remove saturated methyl esters indiscriminately by mixing in
additives and allowing for the crystallization of saturates and then filtering out the crystals.
Fractionation selectively separates methyl esters into individual components or fractions,
allowing for the removal or inclusion of specific methyl esters. Fractionation methods include
urea fractionation, solvent fractionation and thermal distillation.
[0384]    Another valuable fuel provided by the methods of the present invention is
renewable diesel, which comprises alkanes, such as ClO:O, Cl2:0, Cl4:0, Cl6:0 and Cl8:0
and thus, are distinguishable from biodiesel. High quality renewable diesel conforms to the
ASTM D975 standard. The lipids produced by the methods of the present invention can serve
as feedstock to produce renewable diesel. Thus, in another aspect of the present invention, a
method for producing renewable diesel is provided. Renewable diesel can be produced by at
least three processes: hydrothermal processing (hydrotreating); hydroprocessing; and indirect
liquefaction. These processes yield non-ester distillates. During these processes,
triacylglycerides produced and isolated as described herein, are converted to alkanes.
[0385]    In one embodiment, the method for producing renewable diesel comprises (a)
cultivating a lipid-containing microorganism using methods disclosed herein (b) lysing the
microorganism to produce a lysate, (c) isolating lipid from the lysed microorganism, and (d)
deoxygenating and hydrotreating the lipid to produce an alkane, whereby renewable diesel is
produced. Lipids suitable for manufacturing renewable diesel can be obtained via extraction
from microbial biomass using an organic solvent such as hexane, or via other methods, such
as those described in US Patent 5,928,696. Some suitable methods may include mechanical
pressing and centrifuging.
[0386]    In some methods, the microbial lipid is first cracked in conjunction with
hydrotreating to reduce carbon chain length and saturate double bonds, respectively. The
material is then isomerized, also in conjunction with hydrotreating. The naptha fraction can
then be removed through distillation, followed by additional distillation to vaporize and distill
                                               105

components desired in the diesel fuel to meet an ASTM D975 standard while leaving
components that are heavier than desired for meeting the D975 standard. Hydrotreating,
hydrocracking, deoxygenation and isomerization methods of chemically modifying oils,
including triglyceride oils, are well known in the art. See for example European patent
applications EPl 741768 (Al); EPl 741767 (Al); EP1682466 (Al); EP1640437 (Al);
EP1681337 (Al); EP1795576 (Al); and U.S. Patents 7,238,277; 6,630,066; 6,596,155;
6,977,322; 7,041,866; 6,217,746; 5,885,440; 6,881,873.
[0387]    In one embodiment of the method for producing renewable diesel, treating the lipid
to produce an alkane is performed by hydrotreating of the lipid composition. In hydrothermal
processing, typically, biomass is reacted in water at an elevated temperature and pressure to
form oils and residual solids. Conversion temperatures are typically 300° to 660°F, with
pressure sufficient to keep the water primarily as a liquid, 100 to 170 standard atmosphere
(atm). Reaction times are on the order of 15 to 30 minutes. After the reaction is completed,
the organics are separated from the water. Thereby a distillate suitable for diesel is produced.
[0388]    In some methods of making renewable diesel, the first step of treating a triglyceride
is hydroprocessing to saturate double bonds, followed by deoxygenation at elevated
temperature in the presence of hydrogen and a catalyst. In some methods, hydrogenation and
deoxygenation occur in the same reaction. In other methods deoxygenation occurs before
hydrogenation. Isomerization is then optionally performed, also in the presence of hydrogen
and a catalyst. Naphtha components are preferably removed through distillation. For
examples, see U.S. Patents 5,475,160 (hydrogenation of triglycerides); 5,091,116
(deoxygenation, hydrogenation and gas removal); 6,391,815 (hydrogenation); and 5,888,947
(isomerization).
[0389]     One suitable method for the hydrogenation of triglycerides includes preparing an
aqueous solution of copper, zinc, magnesium and lanthanum salts and another solution of
alkali metal or preferably, ammonium carbonate. The two solutions may be heated to a
temperature of about 20°C to about 85°C and metered together into a precipitation container
at rates such that the pH in the precipitation container is maintained between 5.5 and 7.5 in
order to form a catalyst. Additional water may be used either initially in the precipitation
container or added concurrently with the salt solution and precipitation solution. The
resulting precipitate may then be thoroughly washed, dried, calcined at about 300°C and
activated in hydrogen at temperatures ranging from about 100°C to about 400°C. One or
more triglycerides may then be contacted and reacted with hydrogen in the presence of the
above-described catalyst in a reactor. The reactor may be a trickle bed reactor, fixed bed gas-
                                                106

solid reactor, packed bubble column reactor, continuously stirred tank reactor, a slurry phase
reactor, or any other suitable reactor type known in the art. The process may be carried out
either batchwise or in continuous fashion. Reaction temperatures are typically in the range of
from about l 70°C to about 250°C while reaction pressures are typically in the range of from
about 300 psig to about 2000 psig. Moreover, the molar ratio of hydrogen to triglyceride in
the process of the present invention is typically in the range of from about 20: 1 to about
700: 1. The process is typically carried out at a weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) in the
range of from about 0.1 hr- 1 to about 5 hr- 1 . One skilled in the art willrecognize that the time
period required for reaction will vary according to the temperature used, the molar ratio of
hydrogen to triglyceride, and the partial pressure of hydrogen. The products produced by the
such hydrogenation processes include fatty alcohols, glycerol, traces of paraffins and
unreacted triglycerides. These products are typically separated by conventional means such
as, for example, distillation, extraction, filtration, crystallization, and the like.
[0390]    Petroleum refiners use hydroprocessing to remove impurities by treating feeds with
hydrogen. Hydroprocessing conversion temperatures are typically 300° to 700°F. Pressures
are typically 40 to 100 atm. The reaction times are typically on the order of 10 to 60 minutes.
Solid catalysts are employed to increase certain reaction rates, improve selectivity for certain
products, and optimize hydrogen consumption.
[0391]    Suitable methods for the deoxygenation of an oil includes heating an oil to a
temperature in the range of from about 350°F to about 550°F and continuously contacting the
heated oil with nitrogen under at least pressure ranging from about atmospeheric to above for
at least about 5 minutes.
[0392]    Suitable methods for isomerization include using alkali isomerization and other oil
isomerization known in the art.
[0393]    Hydrotreating and hydroprocessing ultimately lead to a reduction in the molecular
weight of the triglyceride feed. The triglyceride molecule is reduced to four hydrocarbon
molecules under hydroprocessing conditions: a propane molecule and three heavier
hydrocarbon molecules, typically in the C8 to Cl8 range.
[0394]    Thus, in one embodiment, the product of one or more chemical reaction(s)
performed on lipid compositions of the invention is an alkane mixture that comprises ASTM
D975 renewable diesel. Production of hydrocarbons by microorganisms is reviewed by
Metzger et al. Appl Microbial Biotechnol (2005) 66: 486-496 and A Look Back at the U.S.
Department of Energy's Aquatic Species Program: Biodiesel from Algae, NREL/TP-580-
24190, John Sheehan, Terri Dunahay, John Benemann and Paul Roessler (1998).
                                                  107

[0395]     The distillation properties of a diesel fuel is described in terms of TlO-T90
(temperature at 10% and 90%, respectively, volume distilled). Renewable diesel was
produced from Prototheca moriformis triglyceride oil and is described in Example 13. The
T10-T90 of the material produced in Example 13 was 57.9°C. Methods of hydrotreating,
isomerization, and other covalent modification of oils disclosed herein, as well as methods of
distillation and fractionation (such as cold filtration) disclosed herein, can be employed to
generate renewable diesel compositions with other T10-T90 ranges, such as 20, 25, 30, 35,
40, 45, 50, 60 and 65°C using triglyceride oils produced according to the methods disclosed
herein.
[0396]     The Tl 0 of the material produced in Example 13 was 242.1 °C. Methods of
hydrotreating, isomerization, and other covalent modification of oils disclosed herein, as well
as methods of distillation and fractionation (such as cold filtration) disclosed herein, can be
employed to generate renewable diesel compositions with other TlO values, such as TlO
between 180 and 295, between 190 and 270, between 210 and 250, between 225 and 245, and
at least 290.
[0397]     The T90 of the material produced in Example 13 was 300°C. Methods of
hydrotreating, isomerization, and other covalent modification of oils disclosed herein, as well
as methods of distillation and fractionation (such as cold filtration) disclosed herein can be
employed to generate renewable diesel compositions with other T90 values, such as T90
between 280 and 380, between 290 and 360, between 300 and 350, between 310 and 340, and
at least 290.
[0398]     The FBP of the material produced in Example 13 was 300°C. Methods of
hydrotreating, isomerization, and other covalent modification of oils disclosed herein, as well
as methods of distillation and fractionation (such as cold filtration) disclosed herein, can be
employed to generate renewable diesel compositions with other FBP values, such as FBP
between 290 and 400, between 300 and 385, between 310 and 370, between 315 and 360, and
at least 300.
[0399]     Other oils provided by the methods and compositions of the invention can be
subjected to combinations of hydrotreating, isomerization, and other covalent modification
including oils with lipid profiles including (a) at least 1%-5%, preferably at least 4%, C8-
C14; (b) at least 0.25%-1 %, preferably at least 0.3%, C8; (c) at least 1%-5%, preferably at
least 2%, ClO; (d) at least 1%-5%, preferably at least 2%, C12; and (3) at least 20%-40%,
preferably at least 30% C8-C14.
                                                 108

[0400]     A traditional ultra-low sulfur diesel can be produced from any form of biomass by a
two-step process. First, the biomass is converted to a syngas, a gaseous mixture rich in
hydrogen and carbon monoxide. Then, the syngas is catalytically converted to liquids.
Typically, the production of liquids is accomplished using Fischer-Tropsch (FT) synthesis.
This technology applies to coal, natural gas, and heavy oils. Thus, in yet another preferred
embodiment of the method for producing renewable diesel, treating the lipid composition to
produce an alkane is performed by indirect liquefaction of the lipid composition.
[0401]     The present invention also provides methods to produce jet fuel. Jet fuel is clear to
straw colored. The most common fuel is an unleaded/paraffin oil-based fuel classified as
Aeroplane A-1, which is produced to an internationally standardized set of specifications. Jet
fuel is a mixture of a large number of different hydrocarbons, possibly as many as a thousand
or more. The range of their sizes (molecular weights or carbon numbers) is restricted by the
requirements for the product, for example, freezing point or smoke point. Kerosone-type
Aeroplane fuel (including Jet A and Jet A-1) has a carbon number distribution between about
8 and 16 carbon numbers. Wide-cut or naphta-type Aeroplane fuel (including Jet B) typically
has a carbon number distribution between about 5 and 15 carbons.
[0402]     Both Aeroplanes (Jet A and Jet B) may contain a number of additives. Useful
additives include, but are not limited to, antioxidants, antistatic agents, corrosion inhibitors,
and fuel system icing inhibitor (FSII) agents. Antioxidants prevent gumming and usually, are
based on alkylated phenols, for example, A0-30, A0-31, or A0-37. Antistatic agents
dissipate static electricity and prevent sparking. Stadis 450 with dinonylnaphthylsulfonic acid
(DINNSA) as the active ingredient, is an example. Corrosion inhibitors, e.g., DCI-4A is used
for civilian and military fuels and DCI-6A is used for military fuels. FSII agents, include,
e.g., Di-EGME.
[0403]     In one embodiment of the invention, a jet fuel is produced by blending algal fuels
with existing jet fuel. The lipids produced by the methods of the present invention can serve
as feedstock to produce jet fuel. Thus, in another aspect of the present invention, a method for
producing jet fuel is provided. Herewith two methods for producing jet fuel from the lipids
produced by the methods of the present invention are provided: fluid catalytic cracking
(FCC); and hydrodeoxygenation (HDO).
[0404]     Fluid Catalytic Cracking (FCC) is one method which is used to produce olefins,
especially propylene from heavy crude fractions. The lipids produced by the method of the
present invention can be converted to olefins. The process involves flowing the lipids
produced through an FCC zone and collecting a product stream comprised of olefins, which
                                                 109

          is useful as a jet fuel. The lipids produced are contacted with a cracking catalyst at cracking
          conditions to provide a product stream comprising olefins and hydrocarbons useful as jet fuel.
          [0405]     In one embodiment, the method for producing jet fuel comprises (a) cultivating a
          lipid-containing microorganism using methods disclosed herein, (b) lysing the lipid-
          containing microorganism to produce a lysate, (c) isolating lipid from the lysate, and (d)
          treating the lipid composition, whereby jet fuel is produced. In one embodiment of the
          method for producing a jet fuel, the lipid composition can be flowed through a fluid catalytic
          cracking zone, which, in one embodiment, may comprise contacting the lipid composition
          with a cracking catalyst at cracking conditions to provide a product stream comprising C 2-Cs
,.......i
          olefins.
~         [0406]     In certain embodiments of this method, it may be desirable to remove any
          contaminants that may be present in the lipid composition. Thus, prior to flowing the lipid
          composition through a fluid catalytic cracking zone, the lipid composition is pretreated.
          Pretreatment may involve contacting the lipid composition with an ion-exchange resin. The
          ion exchange resin is an acidic ion exchange resin, such as Amberlyst-15 and can be used
          as a bed in a reactor through which the lipid composition is flowed, either upflow or
          downflow. Other pretreatments may include mild acid washes by contacting the lipid
          composition with an acid, such as sulfuric, acetic, nitric, or hydrochloric acid. Contacting is
          done with a dilute acid solution usually at ambient temperature and atmospheric pressure.
          [0407]     The lipid composition, optionally pretreated, is flowed to an FCC zone where the
          hydrocarbonaceous components are cracked to olefins. Catalytic cracking is accomplished by
          contacting the lipid composition in a reaction zone with a catalyst composed of finely divided
          particulate material. The reaction is catalytic cracking, as opposed to hydrocracking, and is
          carried out in the absence of added hydrogen or the consumption of hydrogen. As the
          cracking reaction proceeds, substantial amounts of coke are deposited on the catalyst. The
          catalyst is regenerated at high temperatures by burning coke from the catalyst in a
          regeneration zone. Coke-containing catalyst, referred to herein as "coked catalyst", is
          continually transported from the reaction zone to the regeneration zone to be regenerated and
          replaced by essentially coke-free regenerated catalyst from the regeneration zone.
          Fluidization of the catalyst particles by various gaseous streams allows the transport of
          catalyst between the reaction zone and regeneration zone. Methods for cracking
          hydrocarbons, such as those of the lipid composition described herein, in a fluidized stream
          of catalyst, transporting catalyst between reaction and regeneration zones, and combusting
          coke in the regenerator are well known by those skilled in the art of FCC processes.
                                                          110

Exemplary FCC applications and catalysts useful for cracking the lipid composition to
produce C2-Cs olefins are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,538,169, 7,288,685, which are
incorporated in their entirety by reference.
[0408]     Suitable FCC catalysts generally comprise at least two components that may or may
not be on the same matrix. In some embodiments, both two components may be circulated
throughout the entire reaction vessel. The first component generally includes any of the well-
known catalysts that are used in the art of fluidized catalytic cracking, such as an active
amorphous clay-type catalyst and/or a high activity, crystalline molecular sieve. Molecular
sieve catalysts may be preferred over amorphous catalysts because of their much-improved
selectivity to desired products. IN some preferred embodiments, zeolites may be used as the
molecular sieve in the FCC processes. Preferably, the first catalyst component comprises a
large pore zeolite, such as an Y-type zeolite, an active alumina material, a binder material,
comprising either silica or alumina and an inert filler such as kaolin.
[0409]     In one embodiment, cracking the lipid composition of the present invention, takes
place in the riser section or, alternatively, the lift section, of the FCC zone. The lipid
composition is introduced into the riser by a nozzle resulting in the rapid vaporization of the
lipid composition. Before contacting the catalyst, the lipid composition will ordinarily have a
temperature of about 149°C to about 316°C (300°F to 600°F). The catalyst is flowed from a
blending vessel to the riser where it contacts the lipid composition for a time of abort 2
seconds or less.
[0410]     The blended catalyst and reacted lipid composition vapors are then discharged from
the top of the riser through an outlet and separated into a cracked product vapor stream
including olefins and a collection of catalyst particles covered with substantial quantities of
coke and generally referred to as "coked catalyst." In an effort to minimize the contact time
of the lipid composition and the catalyst which may promote further conversion of desired
products to undesirable other products, any arrangement of separators such as a swirl arm
arrangement can be used to remove coked catalyst from the product stream quickly. The
separator, e.g. swirl arm separator, is located in an upper portion of a chamber with a
stripping zone situated in the lower portion of the chamber. Catalyst separated by the swirl
arm arrangement drops down into the stripping zone. The cracked product vapor stream
comprising cracked hydrocarbons including light olefins and some catalyst exit the chamber
via a conduit which is in communication with cyclones. The cyclones remove remaining
catalyst particles from the product vapor stream to reduce particle concentrations to very low
levels. The product vapor stream then exits the top of the separating vessel. Catalyst
                                                  111

separated by the cyclones is returned to the separating vessel and then to the stripping zone.
The stripping zone removes adsorbed hydrocarbons from the surface of the catalyst by
counter-current contact with steam.
[0411]     Low hydrocarbon partial pressure operates to favor the production of light olefins.
Accordingly, the riser pressure is set at about 172 to 241 kPa (25 to 35 psia) with a
hydrocarbon partial pressure of about 35 to 172 kPa (5 to 25 psia), with a preferred
hydrocarbon partial pressure of about 69 to 138 kPa (10 to 20 psia). This relatively low
partial pressure for hydrocarbon is achieved by using steam as a diluent to the extent that the
diluent is 10 to 55 wt-% of lipid composition and preferably about 15 wt-% of lipid
composition. Other diluents such as dry gas can be used to reach equivalent hydrocarbon
partial pressures.
[0412]     The temperature of the cracked stream at the riser outlet will be about 510°C to
621°C (950°F to l 150°F). However, riser outlet temperatures above 566°C (1050°F) make
more dry gas and more olefins. Whereas, riser outlet temperatures below 566°C (1050°F)
make less ethylene and propylene. Accordingly, it is preferred to run the FCC process at a
preferred temperature of about 566°C to about 630°C, preferred pressure of about 138 kPa to
about 240 kPa (20 to 35 psia). Another condition for the process is the catalyst to lipid
composition ratio which can vary from about 5 to about 20 and preferably from about 10 to
about 15.
[0413]     In one embodiment of the method for producing a jet fuel, the lipid composition is
introduced into the lift section of an FCC reactor. The temperature in the lift section will be
very hot and range from about 700°C (1292°F) to about 760°C (1400°F) with a catalyst to
lipid composition ratio of about 100 to about 150. It is anticipated that introducing the lipid
composition into the lift section will produce considerable amounts of propylene and
ethylene.
[0414]     In another embodiment of the method for producing a jet fuel using the lipid
composition or the lipids produced as described herein, the structure of the lipid composition
or the lipids is broken by a process referred to as hydrodeoxygenation (HDO). HDO means
removal of oxygen by means of hydrogen, that is, oxygen is removed while breaking the
structure of the material. Olefinic double bonds are hydrogenated and any sulphur and
nitrogen compounds are removed. Sulphur removal is called hydrodesulphurization (HDS).
Pretreatment and purity of the raw materials (lipid composition or the lipids) contribute to the
service life of the catalyst.
                                                112

[0415]     Generally in the HDO/HDS step, hydrogen is mixed with the feed stock (lipid
composition or the lipids) and then the mixture is passed through a catalyst bed as a co-
current flow, either as a single phase or a two phase feed stock. After the HDO/MDS step, the
product fraction is separated and passed to a separate isomerzation reactor. An isomerization
reactor for biological starting material is described in the literature (FI 100 248) as a co-
current reactor.
[0416]     The process for producing a fuel by hydrogenating a hydrocarbon feed, e.g., the
lipid composition or the lipids herein, can also be performed by passing the lipid composition
or the lipids as a co-current flow with hydrogen gas through a first hydrogenation zone, and
thereafter the hydrocarbon effluent is further hydrogenated in a second hydrogenation zone
by passing hydrogen gas to the second hydrogenation zone as a counter-current flow relative
to the hydrocarbon effluent. Exemplary HDO applications and catalysts useful for cracking
the lipid composition to produce C 2-Cs olefins are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 ,232,935,
which is incorporated in its entirety by reference.
[0417]     Typically, in the hydrodeoxygenation step, the structure of the biological
component, such as the lipid composition or lipids herein, is decomposed, oxygen, nitrogen,
phosphorus and sulphur compounds, and light hydrocarbons as gas are removed, and the
olefinic bonds are hydrogenated. In the second step of the process, i.e. in the so-called
isomerization step, isomerzation is carried out for branching the hydrocarbon chain and
improving the performance of the paraffin at low temperatures.
[0418]    In the first step, i.e. HDO step, of the cracking process, hydrogen gas and the lipid
composition or lipids herein which are to be hydrogenated are passed to a HDO catalyst bed
system either as co-current or counter-current flows, said catalyst bed system comprising one
or more catalyst bed(s), preferably 1-3 catalyst beds. The HDO step is typically operated in a
co-current manner. In case of a HDO catalyst bed system comprising two or more catalyst
beds, one or more of the beds may be operated using the counter-current flow principle. In
the HDO step, the pressure varies between 20 and 150 bar, preferably between 50 and 100
bar, and the temperature varies between 200 and 500°C, preferably in the range of 300-400°C.
In the HDO step, known hydrogenation catalysts containing metals from Group VII and/or
VIB of the Periodic System may be used. Preferably, the hydrogenation catalysts are
supported Pd, Pt, Ni, NiMo or a CoMo catalysts, the support being alumina and/or silica.
Typically, NiMo/Ah0 3 and CoMo/Ah03 catalysts are used.
[0419]     Prior to the HDO step, the lipid composition or lipids herein may optionally be
treated by prehydrogenation under milder conditions thus avoiding side reactions of the
                                                 113

double bonds. Such prehydrogenation is carried out in the presence of a prehydrogenation
catalyst at temperatures of 50-400°C and at hydrogen pressures of 1-200 bar, preferably at a
temperature between 150 and 250°C and at a hydrogen pressure between 10 and 100 bar. The
catalyst may contain metals from Group VIII and/or VIB of the Periodic System. Preferably,
the prehydrogenation catalyst is a supported Pd, Pt, Ni, NiMo or a CoMo catalyst, the support
being alumina and/or silica.
[0420]    A gaseous stream from the HDO step containing hydrogen is cooled and then
carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, phosphorus and sulphur compounds, gaseous
light hydrocarbons and other impurities are removed therefrom. After compressing, the
purified hydrogen or recycled hydrogen is returned back to the first catalyst bed and/or
between the catalyst beds to make up for the withdrawn gas stream. Water is removed from
the condensed liquid. The liquid is passed to the first catalyst bed or between the catalyst
beds.
[0421]    After the HDO step, the product is subjected to an isomerization step. It is
substantial for the process that the impurities are removed as completely as possible before
the hydrocarbons are contacted with the isomerization catalyst. The isomerization step
comprises an optional stripping step, wherein the reaction product from the HDO step may be
purified by stripping with water vapour or a suitable gas such as light hydrocarbon, nitrogen
or hydrogen. The optional stripping step is carried out in counter-current manner in a unit
upstream of the isomerization catalyst, wherein the gas and liquid are contacted with each
other, or before the actual isomerization reactor in a separate stripping unit utilizing counter-
current principle.
[0422]    After the stripping step the hydrogen gas and the hydrogenated lipid composition or
lipids herein, and optionally an n-paraffin mixture, are passed to a reactive isomerization unit
comprising one or several catalyst bed(s). The catalyst beds of the isomerization step may
operate either in co-current or counter-current manner.
[0423]    It is important for the process that the counter-current flow principle is applied in
the isomerization step. In the isomerization step this is done by carrying out either the
optional stripping step or the isomerization reaction step or both in counter-current manner.
In the isomerzation step, the pressure varies in the range of 20-150 bar, preferably in the
range of 20-100 bar, the temperature being between 200 and 500°C, preferably between 300
and 400°C. In the isomerization step, isomerization catalysts known in the art may be used.
Suitable isomerization catalysts contain molecular sieve and/or a metal from Group VII
and/or a carrier. Preferably, the isomerization catalyst contains SAP0-11 or SAP041 or
                                                 114

ZSM-22 or ZSM-23 or ferrierite and Pt, Pd or Ni and Ah0 3 or Si0 2 . Typical isomerization
catalysts are, for example, Pt/SAP0-11/Ah0 3 , Pt/ZSM-22/Ah0 3 , Pt/ZSM-23/Ah0 3 and
Pt/SAP0-11/Si0 2 . The isomerization step and the HDO step may be carried out in the same
pressure vessel or in separate pressure vessels. Optional prehydrogenation may be carried out
in a separate pressure vessel or in the same pressure vessel as the HDO and isomerization
steps.
[0424]    Thus, in one embodiment, the product of one or more chemical reactions is an
alkane mixture that comprises HRJ-5. In another embodiment, the product of the one or more
chemical reactions is an alkane mixture that comprises ASTM D1655 jet fuel. In some
embodiments, the composition comforming to the specification of ASTM 1655 jet fuel has a
sulfur content that is less than 10 ppm. In other embodiments, the composition conforming to
the specification of ASTM 1655 jet fuel has a TlO value of the distillation curve of less than
205° C. In another embodiment, the composition conforming to the specification of ASTM
1655 jet fuel has a final boiling point (FBP) of less than 300° C. In another embodiment, the
composition conforming to the specification of ASTM 1655 jet fuel has a flash point of at
least 38° C. In another embodiment, the composition conforming to the specification of
ASTM 1655 jet fuel has a density between 775K/M 3 and 840K/M 3 . In yet another
embodiment, the composition conforming to the specification of ASTM 1655 jet fuel has a
freezing point that is below -47° C. In another embodiment, the composition conforming to
the specification of ASTM 1655 jet fuel has a net Heat of Combustion that is at least 42.8
MJ/K. In another embodiment, the composition conforming to the specification of ASTM
1655 jet fuel has a hydrogen content that is at least 13.4 mass%. In another embodiment, the
composition conforming to the specification of ASTM 1655 jet fuel has a thermal stability, as
tested by quantitative gravimetric JFTOT at 260° C, that is below 3mm of Hg. In another
embodiment, the composition conforming to the specification of ASTM 1655 jet fuel has an
existent gum that is below 7 mg/dl.
[0425]    Thus, the present invention discloses a variety of methods in which chemical
modification of microalgal lipid is undertaken to yield products useful in a variety of
industrial and other applications. Examples of processes for modifying oil produced by the
methods disclosed herein include, but are not limited to, hydrolysis of the oil,
hydroprocessing of the oil, and esterification of the oil. Other chemical modification of
microalgal lipid include, without limitation, epoxidation, oxidation, hydrolysis, sulfations,
sulfonation, ethoxylation, propoxylation, amidation, and saponification. The modification of
the microalgal oil produces basic oleochemicals that can be further modified into selected
                                               115

derivative oleochemicals for a desired function. In a manner similar to that described above
with reference to fuel producing processes, these chemical modifications can also be
performed on oils generated from the microbial cultures described herein. Examples of basic
oleochemicals include, but are not limited to, soaps, fatty acids, fatty esters, fatty alcohols,
fatty nitrogen compounds, fatty acid methyl esters, and glycerol. Examples of derivative
oleochemicals include, but are not limited to, fatty nitriles, esters, dimer acids, quats,
surfactants, fatty alkanolamides, fatty alcohol sulfates, resins, emulsifiers, fatty alcohols,
olefins, drilling muds, polyols, polyurethanes, polyacrylates, rubber, candles, cosmetics,
metallic soaps, soaps, alpha-sulphonated methyl esters, fatty alcohol sulfates, fatty alcohol
ethoxylates, fatty alcohol ether sulfates, imidazolines, surfactants, detergents, esters, quats,
ozonolysis products, fatty amines, fatty alkanolamides, ethoxysulfates, monoglycerides,
diglycerides, triglycerides (including medium chain triglycerides), lubricants, hydraulic
fluids, greases, dielectric fluids, mold release agents, metal working fluids, heat transfer
fluids, other functional fluids, industrial chemicals (e.g., cleaners, textile processing aids,
plasticizers, stabilizers, additives), surface coatings, paints and lacquers, electrical wiring
insulation, and higher alkanes.
[0426]     Hydrolysis of the fatty acid constituents from the glycerolipids produced by the
methods of the invention yields free fatty acids that can be derivatized to produce other useful
chemicals. Hydrolysis occurs in the presence of water and a catalyst which may be either an
acid or a base. The liberated free fatty acids can be derivatized to yield a variety of products,
as reported in the following: US Patent Nos. 5,304,664 (Highly sulfated fatty acids);
7,262,158 (Cleansing compositions); 7,115,173 (Fabric softener compositions); 6,342,208
(Emulsions for treating skin); 7,264,886 (Water repellant compositions); 6,924,333 (Paint
additives); 6,596,768 (Lipid-enriched ruminant feedstock); and 6,380,410 (Surfactants for
detergents and cleaners).
[0427]     With regard to hydrolysis, in one embodiment of the invention, a triglyceride oil is
optionally first hydrolyzed in a liquid medium such as water or sodium hydroxide so as to
obtain glycerol and soaps. There are various suitable triglyceride hydrolysis methods,
including, but not limited to, saponification, acid hydrolysis, alkaline hydrolysis, enzymatic
hydrolysis (referred herein as splitting), and hydrolysis using hot-compressed water. One
skilled in the art will recognize that a triglyceride oil need not be hydrolyzed in order to
produce an oleochemical; rather, the oil may be converted directly to the desired
oleochemical by other known process. For example, the triglyceride oil may be directly
converted to a methyl ester fatty acid through esterification.
                                                 116

[0428]     In some embodiments, catalytic hydrolysis of the oil produced by methods disclosed
herein occurs by splitting the oil into glycerol and fatty acids. As discussed above, the fatty
acids may then be further processed through several other modifications to obtained
derivative oleochemicals. For example, in one embodiment the fatty acids may undergo an
amination reaction to produce fatty nitrogen compounds. In another embodiment, the fatty
acids may undergo ozonolysis to produce mono- and dibasic-acids.
[0429]     In other embodiments hydrolysis may occur via the, splitting of oils produced herein
to create oleochemicals. In some preferred embodiments of the invention, a triglyceride oil
may be split before other processes is performed. One skilled in the art will recognize that
there are many suitable triglyceride splitting methods, including, but not limited to,
enzymatic splitting and pressure splitting.
[0430]     Generally, enzymatic oil splitting methods use enzymes, lipases, as biocatalysts
acting on a water/oil mixture. Enzymatic splitting then slpits the oil or fat, respectively, is
into glycerol and free fatty acids. The glycerol may then migrates into the water phase
whereas the organic phase enriches with free fatty acids.
[0431]     The enzymatic splitting reactions generally take place at the phase boundary
between organic and aqueous phase, where the enzyme is present only at the phase boundary.
Triglycerides that meet the phase boundary then contribute to or participate in the splitting
reaction. As the reaction proceeds, the occupation density or concentration of fatty acids still
chemically bonded as glycerides, in comparison to free fatty acids, decreases at the phase
boundary so that the reaction is slowed down. In certain embodiments, enzymatic splitting
may occur at room temperature. One of ordinary skill in the art would know the suitable
conditions for splitting oil into the desired fatty acids.
[0432]     By way of example, the reaction speed can be accelerated by increasing the
interface boundary surface. Once the reaction is complete, free fatty acids are then separated
from the organic phase freed from enzyme, and the residue which still contains fatty acids
chemically bonded as glycerides is fed back or recycled and mixed with fresh oil or fat to be
subjected to splitting. In this manner, recycled glycerides are then subjected to a further
enzymatic splitting process. In some embodiments, the free fatty acids are extracted from an
oil or fat partially split in such a manner. In that way, if the chemically bound fatty acids
(triglycerides) are returned or fed back into the splitting process, the enzyme consumption
can be drastically reduced.
[0433]     The splitting degree is determined as the ratio of the measured acid value divided by
the theoretically possible acid value which can be computed for a given oil or fat. Preferably,
                                                 117

the acid value is measured by means of titration according to standard common methods.
Alternatively, the density of the aqueous glycerol phase can be taken as a measure for the
splitting degree.
[0434]     In one embodiment, the slitting process as described herein is also suitable for
splitting the mono-, di- and triglyceride that are contained in the so-called soap-stock from
the alkali refining processes of the produced oils. In this manner, the soap-stock can be
quantitatively converted without prior saponification of the neutral oils into the fatty acids.
For this purpose, the fatty acids being chemically bonded in the soaps are released, preferably
before splitting, through an addition of acid. In certain embodiments, a buffer solution is used
in addition to water and enzyme for the splitting process.
[0435]     In one embodiment, oils produced in accordance with the methods of the invention
can also be subjected to saponification as a method of hydrolysis. Animal and plant oils are
typically made of triacylglycerols (TA Gs), which are esters of fatty acids with the trihydric
alcohol, glycerol. In an alkaline hydrolysis reaction, the glycerol in a TAG is removed,
leaving three carboxylic acid anions that can associate with alkali metal cations such as
sodium or potassium to produce fatty acid salts. In this scheme, the carboxylic acid
constituents are cleaved from the glycerol moiety and replaced with hydroxyl groups. The
quantity of base (e.g., KOH) that is used in the reaction is determined by the desired degree
of saponification. If the objective is, for example, to produce a soap product that comprises
some of the oils originally present in the TAG composition, an amount of base insufficient to
convert all of the TA Gs to fatty acid salts is introduced into the reaction mixture. Normally,
this reaction is performed in an aqueous solution and proceeds slowly, but may be expedited
by the addition of heat. Precipitation of the fatty acid salts can be facilitated by addition of
salts, such as water-soluble alkali metal halides (e.g., NaCl or KCl), to the reaction mixture.
Preferably, the base is an alkali metal hydroxide, such as NaOH or KOH. Alternatively, other
bases, such as alkanolamines, including for example triethanolamine and
aminomethylpropanol, can be used in the reaction scheme. In some cases, these alternatives
may be preferred to produce a clear soap product. In one embodiment the lipid composition
subjected to saponification is a tallow mimetic (i.e., lipid composition similar to that of
tallow) produced as described herein, or a blend of a tallow mimetic with another triglyceride
oil.
[0436]     In some methods, the first step of chemical modification may be hydroprocessing to
saturate double bonds, followed by deoxygenation at elevated temperature in the presence of
hydrogen and a catalyst. In other methods, hydrogenation and deoxygenation may occur in
                                                 118

the same reaction. In still other methods deoxygenation occurs before hydrogenation.
Isomerization may then be optionally performed, also in the presence of hydrogen and a
catalyst. Finally, gases and naphtha components can be removed if desired. For example, see
U.S. Patents 5,475,160 (hydrogenation of triglycerides); 5,091,116 (deoxygenation,
hydrogenation and gas removal); 6,391,815 (hydrogenation); and 5,888,947 (isomerization).
[0437]    In some embodiments of the invention, the triglyceride oils are partially or
completely deoxygenated. The deoxygenation reactions form desired products, including,
but not limited to, fatty acids, fatty alcohols, polyols, ketones, and aldehydes. In general,
without being limited by any particular theory, the deoxygenation reactions involve a
combination of various different reaction pathways, including without limitation:
hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, consecutive hydrogenation-hydrogenolysis, consecutive
hydrogenolysis-hydrogenation, and combined hydrogenation-hydrogenolysis reactions,
resulting in at least the partial removal of oxygen from the fatty acid or fatty acid ester to
produce reaction products, such as fatty alcohols, that can be easily converted to the desired
chemicals by further processing. For example, in one embodiment, a fatty alcohol may be
converted to olefins through FCC reaction or to higher alkanes through a condensation
reaction.
[0438]    One such chemical modification is hydrogenation, which is the addition of
hydrogen to double bonds in the fatty acid constituents of glycerolipids or of free fatty acids.
The hydrogenation process permits the transformation of liquid oils into semi-solid or solid
fats, which may be more suitable for specific applications.
[0439]    Hydrogenation of oil produced by the methods described herein can be performed in
conjunction with one or more of the methods and/or materials provided herein, as reported in
the following: US Patent Nos. 7,288,278 (Food additives or medicaments); 5,346,724
(Lubrication products); 5,475,160 (Fatty alcohols); 5,091,116 (Edible oils); 6,808,737
(Structural fats for margarine and spreads); 5,298,637 (Reduced-calorie fat substitutes);
6,391,815 (Hydrogenation catalyst and sulfur adsorbent); 5,233,099 and 5,233,100 (Fatty
alcohols); 4,584,139 (Hydrogenation catalysts); 6,057,375 (Foam suppressing agents); and
7,118,773 (Edible emulsion spreads).
[0440]    One skilled in the art will recognize that various processes may be used to
hydrogenate carbohydrates. One suitable method includes contacting the carbohydrate with
hydrogen or hydrogen mixed with a suitable gas and a catalyst under conditions sufficient in
a hydrogenation reactor to form a hydrogenated product. The hydrogenation catalyst
generally can include Cu, Re, Ni, Fe, Co, Ru, Pd, Rh, Pt, Os, Ir, and alloys or any
                                                 119

combination thereof, either alone or with promoters such as W, Mo, Au, Ag, Cr, Zn, Mn, Sn,
B, P, Bi, and alloys or any combination thereof. Other effective hydrogenation catalyst
materials include either supported nickel or ruthenium modified with rhenium. In an
embodiment, the hydrogenation catalyst also includes any one of the supports, depending on
the desired functionality of the catalyst. The hydrogenation catalysts may be prepared by
methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
[0441]     In some embodiments the hydrogenation catalyst includes a supported Group VIII
metal catalyst and a metal sponge material (e.g., a sponge nickel catalyst). Raney nickel
provides an example of an activated sponge nickel catalyst suitable for use in this invention.
In other embodiment, the hydrogenation reaction in the invention is performed using a
catalyst comprising a nickel-rhenium catalyst or a tungsten-modified nickel catalyst. One
example of a suitable catalyst for the hydrogenation reaction of the invention is a carbon-
supported nickel-rhenium catalyst.
[0442]     In an embodiment, a suitable Raney nickel catalyst may be prepared by treating an
alloy of approximately equal amounts by weight of nickel and aluminum with an aqueous
alkali solution, e.g., containing about 25 weight % of sodium hydroxide. The aluminum is
selectively dissolved by the aqueous alkali solution resulting in a sponge shaped material
comprising mostly nickel with minor amounts of aluminum. The initial alloy includes
promoter metals (i.e., molybdenum or chromium) in the amount such that about 1 to 2 weight
% remains in the formed sponge nickel catalyst. In another embodiment, the hydrogenation
catalyst is prepared using a solution of ruthenium(III) nitrosylnitrate, ruthenium (III) chloride
in water to impregnate a suitable support material. The solution is then dried to form a solid
having a water content of less than about 1% by weight. The solid may then be reduced at
atmospheric pressure in a hydrogen stream at 300°C (uncalcined) or 400°C (calcined) in a
rotary ball furnace for 4 hours. After cooling and rendering the catalyst inert with nitrogen,
5% by volume of oxygen in nitrogen is passed over the catalyst for 2 hours.
[0443]     In certain embodiments, the catalyst described includes a catalyst support. The
catalyst support stabilizes and supports the catalyst. The type of catalyst support used
depends on the chosen catalyst and the reaction conditions. Suitable supports for the
invention include, but are not limited to, carbon, silica, silica-alumina, zirconia, titania, ceria,
vanadia, nitride, boron nitride, heteropolyacids, hydroxyapatite, zinc oxide, chromia, zeolites,
carbon nanotubes, carbon fullerene and any combination thereof.
[0444]     The catalysts used in this invention can be prepared using conventional methods
known to those in the art. Suitable methods may include, but are not limited to, incipient
                                                120

wetting, evaporative impregnation, chemical vapor deposition, wash-coating, magnetron
sputtering techniques, and the like.
[0445]    The conditions for which to carry out the hydrogenation reaction will vary based on
the type of starting material and the desired products. One of ordinary skill in the art, with
the benefit of this disclosure, will recognize the appropriate reaction conditions. In general,
the hydrogenation reaction is conducted at temperatures of 80°C to 250°C, and preferably at
90°C to 200°C, and most preferably at l00°C to 150°C. In some embodiments, the
hydrogenation reaction is conducted at pressures from 500 KPa to 14000 KPa.
[0446]    The hydrogen used in the hydrogenolysis reaction of the current invention may
include external hydrogen, recycled hydrogen, in situ generated hydrogen, and any
combination thereof. As used herein, the term "external hydrogen" refers to hydrogen that
does not originate from the biomass reaction itself, but rather is added to the system from
another source.
[0447]    In some embodiments of the invention, it is desirable to convert the starting
carbohydrate to a smaller molecule that will be more readily converted to desired higher
hydrocarbons. One suitable method for this conversion is through a hydrogenolysis reaction.
Various processes are known for performing hydrogenolysis of carbohydrates. One suitable
method includes contacting a carbohydrate with hydrogen or hydrogen mixed with a suitable
gas and a hydrogenolysis catalyst in a hydrogenolysis reactor under conditions sufficient to
form a reaction product comprising smaller molecules or polyols. As used herein, the term
"smaller molecules or polyols" includes any molecule that has a smaller molecular weight,
which can include a smaller number of carbon atoms or oxygen atoms than the starting
carbohydrate. In an embodiment, the reaction products include smaller molecules that
include polyols and alcohols. Someone of ordinary skill in the art would be able to choose
the appropriate method by which to carry out the hydrogenolysis reaction.
[0448]    In some embodiments, a 5 and/or 6 carbon sugar or sugar alcohol may be converted
to propylene glycol, ethylene glycol, and glycerol using a hydrogenolysis catalyst. The
hydrogenolysis catalyst may include Cr, Mo, W, Re, Mn, Cu, Cd, Fe, Co, Ni, Pt, Pd, Rh, Ru,
Ir, Os, and alloys or any combination thereof, either alone or with promoters such as Au, Ag,
Cr, Zn, Mn, Sn, Bi, B, 0, and alloys or any combination thereof. The hydrogenolysis catalyst
may also include a carbonaceous pyropolymer catalyst containing transition metals (e.g.,
chromium, molybdemum, tungsten, rhenium, manganese, copper, cadmium) or Group VIII
metals (e.g., iron, cobalt, nickel, platinum, palladium, rhodium, ruthenium, iridium, and
osmium). In certain embodiments, the hydrogenolysis catalyst may include any of the above
                                                121

metals combined with an alkaline earth metal oxide or adhered to a catalytically active
support. In certain embodiments, the catalyst described in the hydrogenolysis reaction may
include a catalyst support as described above for the hydrogenation reaction.
[0449]    The conditions for which to carry out the hydrogenolysis reaction will vary based on
the type of starting material and the desired products. One of ordinary skill in the art, with
the benefit of this disclosure, will recognize the appropriate conditions to use to carry out the
reaction. In general, they hydrogenolysis reaction is conducted at temperatures of l l0°C to
300°C, and preferably at 170°C to 220°C, and most preferably at 200°C to 225°C. In some
embodiments, the hydrogenolysis reaction is conducted under basic conditions, preferably at
a pH of 8 to 13, and even more preferably at a pH of 10 to 12. In some embodiments, the
hydrogenolysis reaction is conducted at pressures in a range between 60 KPa and 16500 KPa,
and preferably in a range between 1700 KPa and 14000 KPa, and even more preferably
between 4800 KP a and 11000 KP a.
[0450]    The hydrogen used in the hydrogenolysis reaction of the current invention can
include external hydrogen, recycled hydrogen, in situ generated hydrogen, and any
combination thereof.
[0451]    In some embodiments, the reaction products discussed above may be converted into
higher hydrocarbons through a condensation reaction in a condensation reactor. In such
embodiments, condensation of the reaction products occurs in the presence of a catalyst
capable of forming higher hydrocarbons. While not intending to be limited by theory, it is
believed that the production of higher hydrocarbons proceeds through a stepwise addition
reaction including the formation of carbon-carbon, or carbon-oxygen bond. The resulting
reaction products include any number of compounds containing these moieties, as described
in more detail below.
[0452]    In certain embodiments, suitable condensation catalysts include an acid catalyst, a
base catalyst, or an acid/base catalyst. As used herein, the term "acid/base catalyst" refers to
a catalyst that has both an acid and a base functionality. In some embodiments the
condensation catalyst can include, without limitation, zeolites, carbides, nitrides, zirconia,
alumina, silica, aluminosilicates, phosphates, titanium oxides, zinc oxides, vanadium oxides,
lanthanum oxides, yttrium oxides, scandium oxides, magnesium oxides, cerium oxides,
barium oxides, calcium oxides, hydroxides, heteropolyacids, inorganic acids, acid modified
resins, base modified resins, and any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the
condensation catalyst can also include a modifier. Suitable modifiers include La, Y, Sc, P, B,
Bi, Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, and any combination thereof. In some embodiments,
                                                122

          the condensation catalyst can also include a metal. Suitable metals include Cu, Ag, Au, Pt,
          Ni, Fe, Co, Ru, Zn, Cd, Ga, In, Rh, Pd, Ir, Re, Mn, Cr, Mo, W, Sn, Os, alloys, and any
          combination thereof.
          [0453]    In certain embodiments, the catalyst described in the condensation reaction may
          include a catalyst support as described above for the hydrogenation reaction. In certain
          embodiments, the condensation catalyst is self-supporting. As used herein, the term "self-
          supporting" means that the catalyst does not need another material to serve as support. In
          other embodiments, the condensation catalyst in used in conjunction with a separate support
          suitable for suspending the catalyst. In an embodiment, the condensation catalyst support is
,.......i
          silica.
~         [0454]    The conditions under which the condensation reaction occurs will vary based on the
          type of starting material and the desired products. One of ordinary skill in the art, with the
          benefit of this disclosure, will recognize the appropriate conditions to use to carry out the
          reaction. In some embodiments, the condensation reaction is carried out at a temperature at
          which the thermodynamics for the proposed reaction are favorable. The temperature for the
          condensation reaction will vary depending on the specific starting polyol or alcohol. In some
          embodiments, the temperature for the condensation reaction is in a range from 80°C to 500°C,
          and preferably from 125°C to 450°C, and most preferably from 125°C to 250°C. In some
          embodiments, the condensation reaction is conducted at pressures in a range between 0 Kpa
          to 9000 KPa, and preferably in a range between 0 KPa and 7000 KPa, and even more
          preferably between 0 KPa and 5000 KPa.
          [0455]    The higher alkanes formed by the invention include, but are not limited to, branched
          or straight chain alkanes that have from 4 to 30 carbon atoms, branched or straight chain
          alkenes that have from 4 to 30 carbon atoms, cycloalkanes that have from 5 to 30 carbon
          atoms, cycloalkenes that have from 5 to 30 carbon atoms, aryls, fused aryls, alcohols, and
          ketones. Suitable alkanes include, but are not limited to, butane, pentane, pentene, 2-
          methylbutane, hexane, hexene, 2-methylpentane, 3-methylpentane, 2,2,-dimethylbutane, 2,3-
          dimethylbutane, heptane, heptene, octane, octene, 2,2,4-trimethylpentane, 2,3-dimethyl
          hexane, 2,3,4-trimethylpentane, 2,3-dimethylpentane, nonane, nonene, decane, decene,
          undecane, undecene, dodecane, dodecene, tridecane, tridecene, tetradecane, tetradecene,
          pentadecane, pentadecene, nonyldecane, nonyldecene, eicosane, eicosene, uneicosane,
          uneicosene, doeicosane, doeicosene, trieicosane, trieicosene, tetraeicosane, tetraeicosene, and
          isomers thereof. Some of these products may be suitable for use as fuels.
                                                          123

          [0456]     In some embodiments, the cycloalkanes and the cycloalkenes are unsubstituted. In
          other embodiments, the cycloalkanes and cycloalkenes are mono-substituted. In still other
          embodiments, the cycloalkanes and cycloalkenes are multi-substituted. In the embodiments
          comprising the substituted cycloalkanes and cycloalkenes, the substituted group includes,
          without limitation, a branched or straight chain alkyl having 1 to 12 carbon atoms, a branched
          or straight chain alkylene having 1 to 12 carbon atoms, a phenyl, and any combination
          thereof. Suitable cycloalkanes and cycloalkenes include, but are not limited to, cyclopentane,
          cyclopentene, cyclohexane, cyclohexene, methyl-cyclopentane, methyl-cyclopentene, ethyl-
          cyclopentane, ethyl-cyclopentene, ethyl-cyclohexane, ethyl-cyclohexene, isomers and any
,.......i
          combination thereof.
~         [0457]     In some embodiments, the aryls formed are unsubstituted. In another embodiment,
          the aryls formed are mono-substituted. In the embodiments comprising the substituted aryls,
          the substituted group includes, without limitation, a branched or straight chain alkyl having 1
          to 12 carbon atoms, a branched or straight chain alkylene having 1 to 12 carbon atoms, a
          phenyl, and any combination thereof. Suitable aryls for the invention include, but are not
          limited to, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethyl benzene, para xylene, meta xylene, and any
          combination thereof.
          [0458]     The alcohols produced in the invention have from 4 to 30 carbon atoms. In some
          embodiments, the alcohols are cyclic. In other embodiments, the alcohols are branched. In
          another embodiment, the alcohols are straight chained. Suitable alcohols for the invention
          include, but are not limited to, butanol, pentanol, hexanol, heptanol, octanol, nonanol,
          decanol, undecanol, dodecanol, tridecanol, tetradecanol, pentadecanol, hexadecanol,
          heptyldecanol, octyldecanol, nonyldecanol, eicosanol, uneicosanol, doeicosanol, trieicosanol,
          tetraeicosanol, and isomers thereof.
          [0459]     The ketones produced in the invention have from 4 to 30 carbon atoms. In an
          embodiment, the ketones are cyclic. In another embodiment, the ketones are branched. In
          another embodiment, the ketones are straight chained. Suitable ketones for the invention
          include, but are not limited to, butanone, pentanone, hexanone, heptanone, octanone,
          nonanone, decanone, undecanone, dodecanone, tridecanone, tetradecanone, pentadecanone,
          hexadecanone, heptyldecanone, octyldecanone, nonyldecanone, eicosanone, uneicosanone,
          doeicosanone, trieicosanone, tetraeicosanone, and isomers thereof.
          [0460]     Another such chemical modification is interesterification. Naturally produced
          glycerolipids do not have a uniform distribution of fatty acid constituents. In the context of
          oils, interesterification refers to the exchange of acyl radicals between two esters of different
                                                          124

glycerolipids. The interesterification process provides a mechanism by which the fatty acid
constituents of a mixture of glycerolipids can be rearranged to modify the distribution pattern.
Interesterification is a well-known chemical process, and generally comprises heating (to
about 200°C) a mixture of oils for a period (e.g, 30 minutes) in the presence of a catalyst,
such as an alkali metal or alkali metal alkylate (e.g., sodium methoxide). This process can be
used to randomize the distribution pattern of the fatty acid constituents of an oil mixture, or
can be directed to produce a desired distribution pattern. This method of chemical
modification of lipids can be performed on materials provided herein, such as microbial
biomass with a percentage of dry cell weight as lipid at least 20%.
[0461]    Directed interesterification, in which a specific distribution pattern of fatty acids is
sought, can be performed by maintaining the oil mixture at a temperature below the melting
point of some TA Gs which might occur. This results in selective crystallization of these
TAGs, which effectively removes them from the reaction mixture as they crystallize. The
process can be continued until most of the fatty acids in the oil have precipitated, for
example. A directed interesterification process can be used, for example, to produce a product
with a lower calorie content via the substitution of longer-chain fatty acids with shorter-chain
counterparts. Directed interesterification can also be used to produce a product with a mixture
of fats that can provide desired melting characteristics and structural features sought in food
additives or products (e.g., margarine) without resorting to hydrogenation, which can produce
unwanted trans isomers.
[0462]    Interesterification of oils produced by the methods described herein can be
performed in conjuction with one or more of the methods and/or materials, or to produce
products, as reported in the following: US Patent Nos. 6,080,853 (Nondigestible fat
substitutes); 4,288,378 (Peanut butter stabilizer); 5,391,383 (Edible spray oil); 6,022,577
(Edible fats for food products); 5,434,278 (Edible fats for food products); 5,268,192 (Low
calorie nut products); 5,258,197 (Reduce calorie edible compositions); 4,335,156 (Edible fat
product); 7,288,278 (Food additives or medicaments); 7,115,760 (Fractionation process);
6,808,737 (Structural fats); 5,888,947 (Engine lubricants); 5,686,131 (Edible oil mixtures);
and 4,603,188 (Curable urethane compositions).
[0463]    In one embodiment in accordance with the invention, transesterification of the oil,
as described above, is followed by reaction of the transesterified product with polyol, as
reported in US Patent No. 6,465,642, to produce polyol fatty acid polyesters. Such an
esterification and separation process may comprise the steps as follows: reacting a lower
alkyl ester with polyol in the presence of soap; removing residual soap from the product
                                                125

mixture; water-washing and drying the product mixture to remove impurities; bleaching the
product mixture for refinement; separating at least a portion of the unreacted lower alkyl ester
from the polyol fatty acid polyester in the product mixture; and recycling the separated
unreacted lower alkyl ester.
[0464]     Transesterification can also be performed on microbial biomass with short chain
fatty acid esters, as reported in U.S. Patent 6,278,006. In general, transesterification may be
performed by adding a short chain fatty acid ester to an oil in the presence of a suitable
catalyst and heating the mixture. In some embodiments, the oil comprises about 5% to about
90% of the reaction mixture by weight. In some embodiments, the short chain fatty acid
esters can be about 10% to about 50% of the reaction mixture by weight. Non-limiting
examples of catalysts include base catalysts, sodium methoxide, acid catalysts including
inorganic acids such as sulfuric acid and acidified clays, organic acids such as methane
sulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, and toluenesulfonic acid, and acidic resins such as
Amberlyst 15. Metals such as sodium and magnesium, and metal hydrides also are useful
catalysts.
[0465]     Another such chemical modification is hydroxylation, which involves the addition
of water to a double bond resulting in saturation and the incorporation of a hydroxyl moiety.
The hydroxylation process provides a mechanism for converting one or more fatty acid
constituents of a glycerolipid to a hydroxy fatty acid. Hydroxylation can be performed, for
example, via the method reported in US Patent No. 5,576,027. Hydroxylated fatty acids,
including castor oil and its derivatives, are useful as components in several industrial
applications, including food additives, surfactants, pigment wetting agents, defoaming agents,
water proofing additives, plasticizing agents, cosmetic emulsifying and/or deodorant agents,
as well as in electronics, pharmaceuticals, paints, inks, adhesives, and lubricants. One
example of how the hydroxylation of a glyceride may be performed is as follows: fat may be
heated, preferably to about 30-50°C combined with heptane and maintained at temperature
for thirty minutes or more; acetic acid may then be added to the mixture followed by an
aqueous solution of sulfuric acid followed by an aqueous hydrogen peroxide solution which
is added in small increments to the mixture over one hour; after the aqueous hydrogen
peroxide, the temperature may then be increased to at least about 60°C and stirred for at least
six hours; after the stirring, the mixture is allowed to settle and a lower aqueous layer formed
by the reaction may be removed while the upper heptane layer formed by the reaction may be
washed with hot water having a temperature of about 60°C; the washed heptane layer may
then be neutralized with an aqueous potassium hydroxide solution to a pH of about 5 to 7 and
                                                 126

then removed by distillation under vacuum; the reaction product may then be dried under
vacuum at 100°C and the dried product steam-deodorized under vacuum conditions and
filtered at about 50° to 60°C using diatomaceous earth.
[0466]     Hydroxylation of microbial oils produced by the methods described herein can be
performed in conjuction with one or more of the methods and/or materials, or to produce
products, as reported in the following: US Patent Nos. 6,590,113 (Oil-based coatings and
ink); 4,049,724 (Hydroxylation process); 6,113,971 (Olive oil butter); 4,992,189 (Lubricants
and lube additives); 5,576,027 (Hydroxylated milk); and 6,869,597 (Cosmetics).
[0467]     Hydroxylated glycerolipids can be converted to estolides. Estolides consist of a
glycerolipid in which a hydroxy lated fatty acid constituent has been esterified to another fatty
acid molecule. Conversion of hydroxy lated glycerolipids to estolides can be carried out by
warming a mixture of glycerolipids and fatty acids and contacting the mixture with a mineral
acid, as described by Isbell et al., JAOCS 71(2):169-174 (1994). Estolides are useful in a
variety of applications, including without limitation those reported in the following: US
Patent Nos. 7,196,124 (Elastomeric materials and floor coverings); 5,458,795 (Thickened oils
for high-temperature applications); 5,451,332 (Fluids for industrial applications); 5,427 ,704
(Fuel additives); and 5,380,894 (Lubricants, greases, plasticizers, and printing inks).
[0468]     Another such chemical modification is olefin metathesis. In olefin metathesis, a
catalyst severs the alkylidene carbons in an alkene (olefin) and forms new alkenes by pairing
each of them with different alkylidine carbons. The olefin metathesis reaction provides a
mechanism for processes such as truncating unsaturated fatty acid alkyl chains at alkenes by
ethenolysis, cross-linking fatty acids through alkene linkages by self-metathesis, and
incorporating new functional groups on fatty acids by cross-metathesis with derivatized
alkenes.
[0469]     In conjunction with other reactions, such as transesterification and hydrogenation,
olefin metathesis can transform unsaturated glycerolipids into diverse end products. These
products include glycerolipid oligomers for waxes; short-chain glycerolipids for lubricants;
homo- and hetero-bifunctional alkyl chains for chemicals and polymers; short-chain esters for
biofuel; and short-chain hydrocarbons for jet fuel. Olefin metathesis can be performed on
triacylglycerols and fatty acid derivatives, for example, using the catalysts and methods
reported in U.S. Patent No. 7,119,216, US Patent Pub. No. 2010/0160506, and U.S. Patent
Pub. No. 2010/0145086.
[0470]     Olefin metathesis of bio-oils generally comprises adding a solution of Ru catalyst at
a loading of about 10 to 250 ppm under inert conditions to unsaturated fatty acid esters in the
                                                127

presence (cross-metathesis) or absence (self-metathesis) of other alkenes. The reactions are
typically allowed to proceed from hours to days and ultimately yield a distribution of alkene
products. One example of how olefin metathesis may be performed on a fatty acid derivative
is as follows: A solution of the first generation Grubbs Catalyst (dichloro[2( 1-methylethoxy-
a-O)phenyl]methylene-a-C] (tricyclohexyl-phosphine) in toluene at a catalyst loading of 222
ppm may be added to a vessel containing degassed and dried methyl oleate. Then the vessel
may be pressurized with about 60 psig of ethylene gas and maintained at or below about 30°C
for 3 hours, whereby approximately a 50% yield of methyl 9-decenoate may be produced.
[0471]     Olefin metathesis of oils produced by the methods described herein can be
performed in conjunction with one or more of the methods and/or materials, or to produce
products, as reported in the following: Patent App. PCT/US07/081427 (a-olefin fatty acids)
and U.S. Patent App. Nos. 12/281,938 (petroleum creams), 12/281,931 (paintball gun
capsules), 12/653,742 (plasticizers and lubricants), 12/422,096 (bifunctional organic
compounds), and ll/795,052 (candle wax).
[0472]     Other chemical reactions that can be performed on microbial oils include reacting
triacylglycerols with a cyclopropanating agent to enhance fluidity and/or oxidative stability,
as reported in U.S. Patent 6,051,539; manufacturing of waxes from triacylglycerols, as
reported in U.S. Patent 6,770, 104; and epoxidation of triacylglycerols, as reported in "The
effect of fatty acid composition on the acrylation kinetics of epoxidized triacylglycerols",
Journal of the American Oil Chemists' Society, 79:1, 59-63, (2001) and Free Radical Biology
and Medicine, 37:1, 104-ll4 (2004).
[0473]     The generation of oil-bearing microbial biomass for fuel and chemical products as
described above results in the production of delipidated biomass meal. Delipidated meal is a
byproduct of preparing algal oil and is useful as animal feed for farm animals, e.g.,
ruminants, poultry, swine and aquaculture. The resulting meal, although of reduced oil
content, still contains high quality proteins, carbohydrates, fiber, ash, residual oil and other
nutrients appropriate for an animal feed. Because the cells are predominantly lysed by the oil
separation process, the delipidated meal is easily digestible by such animals. Delipidated
meal can optionally be combined with other ingredients, such as grain, in an animal feed.
Because delipidated meal has a powdery consistency, it can be pressed into pellets using an
extruder or expander or another type of machine, which are commercially available.
[0474]     The invention, having been described in detail above, is exemplified in the
following examples, which are offered to illustrate, but not to limit, the claimed invention.
                                                128

VII.    METHODS FOR PREPARING RECOMBINANT MICROALGAL BIOMASS
[0475]    The present invention provides recombinant microbial, preferably algal, biomass
suitable for human consumption that is rich in nutrients, including lipid and/or protein
constituents, methods of combining the same with ingredients, including edible ingredients
and other ingredients and food compositions containing the same. Although much of the
following discussion is directed to algal biomass or algal oil, it is intended to apply equally to
microbial biomass or microbial oil generally. The invention arose in part from the
discoveries that recombinant algal biomass can be prepared with a high oil content and/or
with excellent functionality, and the resulting biomass incorporated into food products in
which the oil and/or protein content of the biomass can substitute in whole or in part for oils
and/or fats and/or proteins present in conventional food products. Algal oil, which can
comprise predominantly monosaturated oil, provides health benefits compared with saturated,
hydrogenated (trans fats) and polyunsaturated fats often found in conventional food products.
Algal oil also can be used as a healthy stable cooking oil free of trans fats. The remainder of
the algal biomass can encapsulate the oil at least until a food product is cooked, thereby
increasing shelf-life of the oil. In uncooked products, in which cells remain intact, the
biomass, along with natural antioxidants found in the oil, also protects the oil from oxidation,
which would otherwise create unpleasant odors, tastes, and textures. The biomass also
provides several beneficial micro-nutrients in addition to the oil and/or protein, such as algal-
derived dietary fibers (both soluble and insoluble carbohydrates), phospholipids,
glycoprotein, phytosterols, tocopherols, tocotrieneols, and selenium.
          1.    Microalgae for Use in the Methods of the Invention
[0476]    A variety species of microalgae that produce suitable oils and/or lipids and/or
protein can be used in accordance with the methods of the present invention, although
microalgae that naturally produce high levels of suitable oils and/or lipids and/or protein are
preferred. Considerations affecting the selection of microalgae for use in the invention
include, in addition to production of suitable oils, lipids, or protein for production of food
products: (1) high lipid (or protein) content as a percentage of cell weight; (2) ease of growth;
(3) ease of propagation; (4) ease of biomass processing; (5) glycerolipid profile; and (6)
absence of algal toxins (Example 5 below demonstrates dried recombinant microalgal
biomass and oils or lipids extracted from the biomass lacks algal toxins).
[0477]    In some embodiments, the cell wall of the microalgae must be disrupted during food
processing (e.g., cooking) to release the active components or for digestion, and, in these
embodiments, strains of microalgae with cell walls susceptible to digestion in the
                                                129

gastrointestinal tract of an animal, e.g., a human or other monogastrics, are preferred,
especially if the algal biomass is to be used in uncooked food products. Digestibility is
generally decreased for recombinant microalgal strains which have a high content of
cellulose/hemicellulose in the cell walls. Digestibility can be evaluated using a standard
pepsin digestibility assay.
           2.    Methods of Generating a Microalgae Strain Lacking or That has Significantly
Reduced Pigmentation
[0478]     Microalgae, such as Chiarella, can be capable of either photosynthetic or
heterotrophic growth. Prototheca is an obligate heterotroph. When grown in heterotrophic
conditions where the carbon source is a fixed carbon source and in the absence of light, the
normally green colored microalgae has a yellow color, lacking or is significantly reduced in
green pigmentation. Microalgae of reduced (or lacking in) green pigmentation can be
advantageous as a food ingredient. One advantage of microalgae of reduced (or is lacking) in
green pigmentation is that the microalgae has a reduced chlorophyll flavor. Another
advantage of microalgae of reduced (or is lacking in) green pigmentation is that as a food
ingredient, the addition of the microalgae to foodstuffs will not impart a green color that can
be unappealing to the consumer. The reduced green pigmentation of microalgae grown under
heterotrophic conditions is transient. When switched back to phototrophic growth,
microalgae capable of both phototrophic and heterotrophic growth will regain the green
pigmentation. Additionally, even with reduced green pigments, heterotrophically grown
microalgae is a yellow color and this may be unsuitable for some food applications where the
consumer expects the color of the foodstuff to be white or light in color. Thus, it is
advantageous to generate a microalgae strain that is capable of heterotrophic growth (so it is
reduced or lacking in green pigmentation) and is also reduced in yellow pigmentation (so that
it is a neutral color for food applications).
[0479]     One method for generating such microalgae strain lacking in or has significantly
reduced pigmentation is through mutagenesis and then screening for the desired phenotype.
Several methods of mutagenesis are known and practiced in the art. For example, Urano et
al., (Urano et al., J Bioscience Bioengineering (2000) v. 90(5): pp. 567-569) describes yellow
and white color mutants of Chiarella ellipsoidea generated using UV irradiation. Kamiya
(Kamiya, Plant Cell Physiol. (1989) v. 30(4): 513-521) describes a colorless strain of
Chiarella vulgaris, l lh (Ml25).
[0480]     In addition to mutagenesis by UV irradiation, chemical mutagenesis can also be
employed in order to generate microalgae with reduced (or lacking in) pigmentation.
                                                130

Chemical mutagens such as ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) or N-methyl-N'nitro-N-
nitroguanidine (NTG) have been shown to be effective chemical mutagens on a variety of
microbes including yeast, fungi, mycobacterium and microalgae. Mutagenesis can also be
carried out in several rounds, where the microalgae is exposed to the mutagen (either UV or
chemical or both) and then screened for the desired reduced pigmentation phenotype.
Colonies with the desired phenotype are then streaked out on plates and reisolated to ensure
that the mutation is stable from one generation to the next and that the colony is pure and not
of a mixed population.
[0481]    In a particular example, Chiarella protathecaides was used to generate strains
lacking in or with reduced pigmentation using a combination of UV and chemical
mutagenesis. Chiarella protathecaides was exposed to a round of chemical mutagenesis with
NTG and colonies were screened for color mutants. Colonies not exhibiting color mutations
were then subjected to a round of UV irradiation and were again screened for color mutants.
In one embodiment, a Chiarella protathecaides strain lacking in pigmentation was isolated
and is Chiarella protathecaides 33-55, deposited on October 13, 2009 at the American Type
Culture Collection at 10801 University Boulevard, Manassas, VA 20110-2209, in accordance
with the Budapest Treaty, with a Patent Deposit Designation of PT A-XXXX. In another
embodiment, a Chiarella protathecaides strain with reduced pigmentation was isolated and is
Chiarella protathecaides 25-32, deposited on October 13, 2009 at the American Type Culture
Collection at 10801 University Boulevard, Manassas, VA 20110-2209, in accordance with
the Budapest Treaty, with a Patent Deposit Designation of PT A-XXXX.
[0482]    High lipid biomass from microalgae is an advantageous material for inclusion in
food products compared to low lipid biomass, because it allows for the addition of less
recombinant microalgal biomass to incorporate the same amount of lipid into a food
composition. This is advantageous, because healthy oils from high lipid microalgae can be
added to food products without altering other attributes such as texture and taste compared
with low lipid biomass. The lipid-rich biomass provided by the methods of the invention
typically has at least 25% lipid by dry cell weight. Process conditions can be adjusted to
increase the percentage weight of cells that is lipid. For example, in certain embodiments, a
microalgae is cultured in the presence of a limiting concentration of one or more nutrients,
such as, for example, nitrogen, phosphorous, or sulfur, while providing an excess of a fixed
carbon source, such as glucose. Nitrogen limitation tends to increase microbial lipid yield
over microbial lipid yield in a culture in which nitrogen is provided in excess. In particular
embodiments, the increase in lipid yield is at least about 10%, 50%, 100%, 200%, or 500%.
                                               131

The microbe can be cultured in the presence of a limiting amount of a nutrient for a portion of
the total culture period or for the entire period. In some embodiments, the nutrient
concentration is cycled between a limiting concentration and a non-limiting concentration at
least twice during the total culture period.
[0483]     High protein biomass from algae is another advantageous material for inclusion in
food products. The methods of the invention can also provide biomass that has at least 20%,
30%, 40% or 50% of its dry cell weight as protein. Growth conditions can be adjusted to
increase the percentage weight of cells that is protein. In a preferred embodiment, a
microalgae is cultured in a nitrogen rich environment and an excess of fixed carbon energy
such as glucose or any of the other carbon sources discussed above. Conditions in which
nitrogen is in excess tends to increase microbial protein yield over microbial protein yield in
a culture in which nitrogen is not provided in excess. For maximal protein production, the
microbe is preferably cultured in the presence of excess nitrogen for the total culture period.
Suitable nitrogen sources for microalgae may come from organic nitrogen sources and/or
inorganic nitrogen sources.
[0484]     Recombinant microalgal cultures generated according to the methods described
herein yield recombinant microalgal biomass in fermentation media. To prepare the biomass
for use as a food composition, the biomass is concentrated, or harvested, from the
fermentation medium. At the point of harvesting the recombinant microalgal biomass from
the fermentation medium, the biomass comprises predominantly intact cells suspended in an
aqueous culture medium. To concentrate the biomass, a dewatering step is performed.
Dewatering or concentrating refers to the separation of the biomass from fermentation broth
or other liquid medium and so is solid-liquid separation. Thus, during dewatering, the culture
medium is removed from the biomass (for example, by draining the fermentation broth
through a filter that retains the biomass), or the biomass is otherwise removed from the
culture medium. Common processes for dewatering include centrifugation, filtration, and the
use of mechanical pressure. These processes can be used individually or in any combination.
[0485]     After concentration, recombinant microalgal biomass can be processed, as described
herein, to produce vacuum-packed cake, algal flakes, algal homogenate, algal powder, algal
flour, or algal oil.
           3.    Chemical Composition of Recombinant Microalgal Biomass
[0486]     The recombinant microalgal biomass generated by the culture methods described
herein comprises recombinant microalgal oil and/or protein as well as other constituents
                                                 132

generated by the microorganisms or incorporated by the microorganisms from the culture
medium during fermentation.
[0487]     Heterotrophic growth results in relatively low chlorophyll content (as compared to
phototrophic systems such as open ponds or closed photobioreactor systems). Reduced
chlorophyll content generally improves organoleptic properties of microalgae and therefore
allows more algal biomass (or oil prepared therefrom) to be incorporated into a food product.
The reduced chlorophyll content found in heterotrophically grown microalgae (e.g.,
Chiarella) also reduces the green color in the biomass as compared to phototrophically grown
microalgae. Thus, the reduced chlorophyll content avoids an often undesired green coloring
associated with food products containing phototrophically grown microalgae and allows for
the incorporation or an increased incorporation of algal biomass into a food product. In at
least one embodiment, the food product contains heterotrophically grown microalgae of
reduced chlorophyll content compared to phototrophically grown microalgae.
[0488]     The recombinant microalgal oil of the biomass described herein (or extracted from
the biomass) can comprise glycerolipids with one or more distinct fatty acid ester side chains.
Glycerolipids are comprised of a glycerol molecule esterified to one, two, or three fatty acid
molecules, which can be of varying lengths and have varying degrees of saturation. Specific
blends of algal oil can be prepared either within a single species of algae, or by mixing
together the biomass (or algal oil) from two or more species of microalgae.
[0489]     Thus, the oil composition, i.e., the properties and proportions of the fatty acid
constituents of the glycerolipids, can also be manipulated by combining biomass (or oil) from
at least two distinct species of microalgae. In some embodiments, at least two of the distinct
species of microalgae have different glycerolipid profiles. The distinct species of microalgae
can be cultured together or separately as described herein, preferably under heterotrophic
conditions, to generate the respective oils. Different species of microalgae can contain
different percentages of distinct fatty acid constituents in the cell's glycerolipids.
[0490]     In some embodiments, the recombinant microalgal oil is primarily comprised of
monounsaturated oil. In some cases, the algal oil is at least 20% monounsaturated oil by
weight. In various embodiments, the algal oil is at least 25%, 50%, 75% or more
monounsaturated oil by weight or by volume. In some embodiments, the monounsaturated
oil is 18:1, 16:1, 14:1or12:1. In some embodiments, the recombinant microalgal oil
comprises at least 10%, 20%, 25%, or 50% or more esterified oleic acid or esterified alpha-
linolenic acid by weight of by volume. In at least one embodiment, the algal oil comprises
less than 10%, less than 5%, less than 3%, less than 2%, or less than 1% by weight or by
                                                 133

volume, or is substantially free of, esterified docosahexanoic acid (DHA (22:6)). For
examples of production of high DHA-containing microalgae, such as in Crypthecodinium
cohnii, see US Patent Nos. 7,252,979, 6,812,009 and 6,372,460.
[0491]    High protein recombinant microalgal biomass has been generated using different
methods of culture. Recombinant microalgal biomass with a higher percentage of protein
content is useful in accordance with the present invention. For example, the protein content
of various species of microalgae has been reported (see Table 1 of Becker, Biotechnology
Advances (2007) 25:207-210). Controlling the renewal rate in a semi-continous
photoautotrophic culture of Tetraselmis suecica has been reported to affect the protein
content per cell, the highest being approximately 22.8% protein (Fabregas, et al., Marine
Biotechnology (2001) 3:256-263).
[0492]    Recombinant microalgal biomass generated by culture methods described herein
and useful in accordance to those embodiments of the present invention relating to high
protein typically comprises at least 30% protein by dry cell weight. In some embodiments,
the recombinant microalgal biomass comprises at least 40%, 50%, 75% or more protein by
dry cell weight. In some embodiments, the recombinant microalgal biomass comprises from
30-75% protein by dry cell weight or from 40-60% protein by dry cell weight. In some
embodiments, the protein in the recombinant microalgal biomass comprises at least 40%
digestible crude protein. In other embodiments, the protein in the recombinant microalgal
biomass comprises at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, or at least 90% digestible crude protein. In
some embodiments, the protein in the recombinant microalgal biomass comprises from 40-
90% digestible crude protein, from 50-80% digestible crude protein, or from 60-75%
digestible crude protein.
[0493]    Recombinant microalgal biomass (and oil extracted therefrom), can also include
other constituents produced by the microalgae, or incorporated into the biomass from the
culture medium. These other constituents can be present in varying amounts depending on
the culture conditions used and the species of microalgae (and, if applicable, the extraction
method used to recover recombinant microalgal oil from the biomass). The other constituents
can include, without limitation, phospholipids (e.g., algal lecithin), carbohydrates, soluble
and insoluble fiber, glycoproteins, phytosterols (e.g., ~-sitosterol, campesterol, stigmasterol,
ergosterol, and brassicasterol), tocopherols, tocotrienols, carotenoids (e.g., a-carotene, ~­
carotene, and lycopene), xanthophylls (e.g., lutein, zeaxanthin, a-cryptoxanthin,    and~­
cryptoxanthin), proteins, polysaccharides (e.g., arabinose, mannose, galactose, 6-methyl
galactose and glucose) and various organic or inorganic compounds (e.g., selenium).
                                                134

[0494]    In some cases, the recombinant microalgal biomass comprises at least 10% soluble
fiber. In other embodiments, the recombinant microalgal biomass comprises at least 20% to
25% soluble fiber. In some embodiments, the recombinant microalgal biomass comprises at
least 30% insoluble fiber. In other embodiments, the recombinant microalgal biomass
comprises at least 50% to at least 70% insoluble fiber. Total dietary fiber is the sum of
soluble fiber and insoluble fiber. In some embodiments, the recombinant microalgal biomass
comprises at least 40% total dietary fiber. In other embodiments, the recombinant microalgal
biomass comprises at least 50%, 55%, 60%, 75%, 80%, 90%, to 95% total dietary fiber.
VIII.     PROCESSING RECOMBINANT MICROALGAL BIOMASS INTO
FINISHED FOOD INGREDIENTS
[0495]    The concentrated recombinant microalgal biomass produced in accordance with the
methods of the invention is itself a finished food ingredient and may be used in foodstuffs
without further, or with only minimal, modification. For example, the cake can be vacuum-
packed or frozen. Alternatively, the biomass may be dried via lyophilization, a "freeze-
drying" process, in which the biomass is frozen in a freeze-drying chamber to which a
vacuum is applied. The application of a vacuum to the freeze-drying chamber results in
sublimation (primary drying) and desorption (secondary drying) of the water from the
biomass. However, the present invention provides a variety of recombinant microalgal
derived finished food ingredients with enhanced properties resulting from processing
methods of the invention that can be applied to the concentrated recombinant microalgal
biomass.
[0496]    Drying the recombinant microalgal biomass, either predominantly intact or in
homogenate form, is advantageous to facilitate further processing or for use of the biomass in
the methods and compositions described herein. Drying refers to the removal of free or
surface moisture/water from predominantly intact biomass or the removal of surface water
from a slurry of homogenized (e.g., by micronization)biomass. Different textures and flavors
can be conferred on food products depending on whether the algal biomass is dried, and if so,
the drying method. Drying the biomass generated from the cultured microalgae described
herein removes water that may be an undesirable component of finished food products or
food ingredients. In some cases, drying the biomass may facilitate a more efficient
recombinant microalgal oil extraction process.
[0497]    In one embodiment, the concentrated recombinant microalgal biomass is drum dried
to a flake form to produce algal flake, as described in part A of this section. In another
embodiment, the concentrated micralgal biomass is spray or flash dried (i.e., subjected to a
                                               135

pneumatic drying process) to form a powder containing predominantly intact cells to produce
algal powder, as described in part B of this section. In another embodiment, the
concentratedrecombinant microalgal biomass is micronized (homogenized) to form a
homogenate of predominantly lysed cells that is then spray or flash dried to produce algal
flour, as described in part C of this section. In another embodiment, oil is extracted from the
concentrated recombinant microalgal biomass to form algal oil, as described in part D of this
section.
           1.   Algal Flake
[0498]    Algal flake of the invention is prepared from concentrated recombinant microalgal
biomass that is applied as a film to the surface of a rolling, heated drum. The dried solids are
then scraped off with a knife or blade, resulting in a small flakes. U.S. Patent No. 6,607,900
describes drying recombinant microalgal biomass using a drum dryer without a prior
centrifugation (concentration) step, and such a process may be used in accordance with the
methods of the invention.
[0499]    Because the biomass may be exposed to high heat during the drying process, it may
be advantageous to add an antioxidant to the biomass prior to drying. The addition of an
antioxidant will not only protect the biomass during drying, but also extend the shelf-life of
the dried recombinant microalgal biomass when stored. In a preferred embodiment, an
antioxidant is added to the recombinant microalgal biomass prior to subsequent processing
such as drying or homogenization. Antioxidants that are suitable for use are discussed in
detail below.
[0500]    Additionally, if there is significant time between the production of the de watered
recombinant microalgal biomass and subsequent processing steps, it may be advantageous to
pasteurize the biomass prior to drying. Free fatty acids from lipases may form if there is
significant time between producing and drying the biomass. Pasteurization of the biomass
inactivates these lipases and prevents the formation of a "soapy" flavor in the resulting dried
biomass product. Thus, in one embodiment, the invention provides pasteurized recombinant
microalgal biomass. In another embodiment, the pasteurized recombinant microalgal
biomass is an algal flake.
          2.    Algal Powder
[0501]    Algal powder of the invention is prepared from concentrated recombinant
microalgal biomass using a pneumatic or spray dryer (see for example U.S. Patent No.
6,372,460). In a spray dryer, material in a liquid suspension is sprayed in a fine droplet
dispersion into a current of heated air. The entrained material is rapidly dried and forms a dry
                                                 136

powder. In some cases, a pulse combustion dryer can also be used to achieve a powdery
texture in the final dried material. In other cases, a combination of spray drying followed by
the use of a fluid bed dryer is used to achieve the optimal conditions for dried microbial
biomass (see, for example, U.S. Patent No. 6,255,505). As an alternative, pneumatic dryers
can also be used in the production of algal powder. Pneumatic dryers draw or entrain the
material that is to be dried in a stream of hot air. While the material is entrained in the hot
air, the moisture is rapidly removed. The dried material is then separated from the moist air
and the moist air is then recirculated for further drying.
          3.     Algal Flour
[0502]    Algal flour of the invention is prepared from concentrated recombinant microalgal
biomass that has been mechanically lysed and homogenized and the homogenate spray or
flash dried (or dried using another pneumatic drying system). The production of algal flour
requires that cells be lysed to release their oil and that cell wall and intracellular components
be micronized or reduced in particle size to an average size of no more than 20 µm,
preferably 10 µm. The lysed microbial cells can agglomerate to form bigger particles of up to
1,000 µm. The resulting oil, water, and micronized particles are emulsified such that the oil
does not separate from the dispersion prior to drying. For example, a pressure disrupter can
be used to pump a cell containing slurry through a restricted orifice valve to lyse the cells.
High pressure (up to 1500 bar) is applied, followed by an instant expansion through an
exiting nozzle. Cell disruption is accomplished by three different mechanisms: impingement
on the valve, high liquid shear in the orifice, and sudden pressure drop upon discharge,
causing an explosion of the cell. The method releases intracellular molecules. A Niro (Niro
Soavi GEA) homogenizer (or any other high pressure homogenizer) can be used to process
cells to particles predominantly 0.2 to 5 microns in length. Processing of algal biomass under
high pressure (approximately 1000 bar) typically lyses over 90% of the cells and reduces
particle size to less than 5 microns.
[0503]    Alternatively, a ball mill can be used. In a ball mill, cells are agitated in suspension
with small abrasive particles, such as beads. Cells break because of shear forces, grinding
between beads, and collisions with beads. The beads disrupt the cells to release cellular
contents. In one embodiment, algal biomass is disrupted and formed into a stable emulsion
using a Dyno-mill ECM Ultra (CB Mills) ball mill. Cells can also be disrupted by shear
forces, such as with the use of blending (such as with a high speed or Waring blender as
examples), the french press, or even centrifugation in case of weak cell walls, to disrupt cells.
                                                 137

A suitable ball mill including specifics of ball size and blade is described in US Patent No.
5,330,913.
[0504]     The immediate product of homogenization is a slurry of particles smaller in size
than the original cells that is suspended in in oil and water. The particles represent cellular
debris. The oil and water are released by the cells. Additional water may be contributed by
aqueous media containing the cells before homogenization. The particles are preferably in
the form of a micronized homogenate. If left to stand, some of the smaller particles may
coalesce. However, an even dispersion of small particles can be preserved by seeding with a
microcrystalline stabilizer, such as microcrystalline cellulose.
[0505]     To form the algal flour, the slurry is spray or flash dried, removing water and
leaving a dry power containing cellular debris and oil. Although the oil content of the
powder can be at least 10, 25 or 50% by weight of the dry powder, the powder can have a dry
rather than greasy feel and appearance (e.g., lacking visible oil) and can also flow freely
when shaken. Various flow agents (including silica-derived products) can also be added.
After drying, the water or moisture content of the powder is typically less than 10%, 5%, 3%
or 1% by weight. Other dryers such as pneumatic dryers or pulse combustion dryers can also
be used to produce algal flour.
[0506]     The oil content of algal flour can vary depending on the percent oil of the algal
biomass. Algal flour can be produced from algal biomass of varying oil content. In certain
embodiments, the algal flour is produced from algal biomass of the same oil content. In other
embodiments, the algal flour is produced from alglal biomass of different oil content. In the
latter case, algal biomass of varying oil content can be combined and then the
homogenization step performed. In other embodiments, algal flour of varying oil content is
produced first and then blended together in various proportions in order to achieve an algal
flour product that contains the final desired oil content. In a further embodiment, algal
biomass of different lipid profiles can be combined together and then homogenized to
produce algal flour. In another embodiment, algal flour of different lipid profiles is produced
first and then blended together in various proportions in order to achieve an algal flour
product that contains the final desired lipid profile.
[0507]     The algal flour of the invention is useful for a wide range of food preparations.
Because of the oil content, fiber content and the micronized particles, algal flour is a
multifunctional food ingredient. Algal flour can be used in baked goods, quick breads, yeast
dough products, egg products, dressing, sauces, nutritional beverages, algal milk, pasta and
                                                 138

gluten free products. Additional details of formulating these food products and more with
algal flour is described in the Examples below.
[0508]     Algal flour can be used in baked goods in place of convention fat sources (e.g., oil,
butter or margarine) and eggs. Baked goods and gluten free products have superior moisture
content and a cumb structure that is indistinguishable from conventional baked goods made
with butter and eggs. Because of the superior moisture content, these baked goods have a
longer shelf life and retain their original texture longer than conventional baked goods that
are produced without algal flour.
[0509]     Algal flour can also act as a fat extender with used in smoothies, sauces, or
dressings. The composition of algal flour is unique in its ability to convey organoleptic
qualities and mouth-feel comparable to a food product with a higher fat content. Dressings,
sauces and beverages made with algal flour have a rheology and opacity that is close to
conventional higher fat recipes although these food products contains about half the fat/oil
levels. Algal flour is also a superior emulsifier and is suitable in use in food preparation that
requires thickness, opacity and viscosity, such as, sauces, dressings and soups. Additionally
the lipid profile found in algal flour of the inventions described herein does not contain trans-
fat and have a higher level of healthy, unsaturated fats as compared to butter or margarine (or
other animal fats). Thus, products made with algal flour can have a lower fat content (with
healthier fats) without sacrificing the mouthfeel and organoleptic qualities of the same food
product that is made using a conventional recipe using a conventional fat source.
[0510]     Algal flour can also be added to powdered or liquid eggs, which are typically served
in a food service setting. The addition of algal flour improves the appearance, texture and
mouthfeel of powdered and liquid eggs and also extends improved appearance, texture and
mouthfeel over time, even when the prepared eggs are held on a steam table. Specific
formulations and sensory panel results are described below in the Examples.
           4.    Algal Oil
[0511]     In one aspect, the present invention is directed to a method of preparing algal oil by
harvesting algal oil from an algal biomass comprising at least 15% oil by dry weight under
GMP conditions, in which the algal oil is greater than 50% 18: 1 lipid. In some cases, the
algal biomass comprises a mixture of at least two distinct species of microalgae. In some
cases, at least two of the distinct species of microalgae have been separately cultured. In at
least one embodiment, at least two of the distinct species of microalgae have different
glycerolipid profiles. In some cases, the algal biomass is derived from algae grown
                                                 139

heterotrophically. In some cases, all of the at least two distinct species of microalgae contain
at least 15% oil by dry weight.
[0512]     In one aspect, the present invention is directed to a method of making a food
composition comprising combining algal oil obtained from algal cells containing at least
10%, or at least 15% oil by dry weight with one or more other edible ingredients to form the
food composition. In some cases, the method further comprises preparing the algal oil under
GMP conditions.
[0513]     Algal oil can be separated from lysed biomass for use in food product (among other
applications). The algal biomass remaining after oil extraction is referred to as delipidated
meal. Delipidated meal contains less oil by dry weight or volume than the microalgae
contained before extraction. Typically 50-90% of oil is extracted so that delipidated meal
contains, for example, 10-50% of the oil content of biomass before extraction. However, the
biomass still has a high nutrient value in content of protein and other constituents discussed
above. Thus, the delipidated meal can be used in animal feed or in human food applications.
[0514]     In some embodiments of the method, the algal oil is at least 50% w/w oleic acid and
contains less than 5% DHA. In some embodiments of the method, the algal oil is at least
50% w/w oleic acid and contains less than 0.5% DHA. In some embodiments of the method,
the algal oil is at least 50% w/w oleic acid and contains less than 5% glycerolipid containing
carbon chain length greater than 18. In some cases, the algal cells from which the algal oil is
obtained comprise a mixture of cells from at least two distinct species of microalgae. In
some cases, at least two of the distinct species of microalgae have been separately cultured.
In at least one embodiment, at least two of the distinct species of microalgae have different
glycerolipid profiles. In some cases, the algal cells are cultured under heterotrophic
conditions. In some cases, all of the at least two distinct species of microalgae contain at
least 10%, or at least 15% oil by dry weight.
[0515]     In one aspect, the present invention is directed to algal oil containing at least 50%
monounsaturated oil and containing less than 1% DHA prepared under GMP conditions. In
some cases, the monounsaturated oil is 18:1 lipid. In some cases, the algal oil is packaged in
a capsule for delivery of a unit dose of oil. In some cases, the algal oil is derived from a
mixture of at least two distinct species of microalgae. In some cases, at least two of the
distinct species of microalgae have been separately cultured. In at least one embodiment, at
least two of the distinct species of microalgae have different glycerolipid profiles. In some
cases, the algal oil is derived from algal cells cultured under heterotrophic conditions.
                                                 140

[0516]     In one aspect, the present invention is directed to oil comprising greater than 60%
18:1, and at least 0.20mg/g tocotrienol.
[0517]     In one aspect, the present invention is directed to a fatty acid alkyl ester composition
comprising greater than 60% 18:1 ester, and at least 0.20mg/g tocotrienol.
[0518]     Algal oil of the invention is prepared from concentrated, washed recombinant
microalgal biomass by extraction. The cells in the biomass are lysed prior to extraction.
Optionally, the microbial biomass may also be dried (oven dried, lyophilized, etc.) prior to
lysis (cell disruption). Alternatively, cells can be lysed without separation from some or all
of the fermentation broth when the fermentation is complete. For example, the cells can be at
a ratio of less than 1: 1 v:v cells to extracellular liquid when the cells are lysed.
[0519]     Microalgae containing lipids can be lysed to produce a lysate. As detailed herein,
the step of lysing a microorganism (also referred to as cell lysis) can be achieved by any
convenient means, including heat-induced lysis, adding a base, adding an acid, using
enzymes such as proteases and polysaccharide degradation enzymes such as amylases, using
ultrasound, mechanical pressure-based lysis, and lysis using osmotic shock. Each of these
methods for lysing a microorganism can be used as a single method or in combination
simultaneously or sequentially. The extent of cell disruption can be observed by microscopic
analysis. Using one or more of the methods above, typically more than 70% cell breakage is
observed. Preferably, cell breakage is more than 80%, more preferably more than 90% and
most preferred about 100%.
[0520]     Lipids and oils generated by the microalgae in accordance with the present
invention can be recovered by extraction. In some cases, extraction can be performed using
an organic solvent or an oil, or can be performed using a solventless-extraction procedure.
[0521]     For organic solvent extraction of the recombinant microalgal oil, the preferred
organic solvent is hexane. Typically, the organic solvent is added directly to the lysate
without prior separation of the lysate components. In one embodiment, the lysate generated
by one or more of the methods described above is contacted with an organic solvent for a
period of time sufficient to allow the lipid components to form a solution with the organic
solvent. In some cases, the solution can then be further refined to recover specific desired
lipid components. The mixture can then be filtered and the hexane removed by, for example,
rotoevaporation. Hexane extraction methods are well known in the art. See, e.g., Frenz et al.,
Enzyme Microb. Technol., 11:717 (1989).
[0522]     Miao and Wu describe a protocol of the recovery of recombinant microalgal lipid
from a culture of Chiarella protothecoides in which the cells were harvested by
                                                  141

centrifugation, washed with distilled water and dried by freeze drying. The resulting cell
powder was pulverized in a mortar and then extracted with n-hexane. Miao and Wu,
Biosource Technology 97:841-846 (2006).
[0523]     In some cases, recombinant microalgal oils can be extracted using liquefaction (see
for example Sawayama et al., Biomass and Bioenergy 17:33-39 (1999) and Inoue et al.,
Biomass Bioenergy 6(4):269-274 (1993)); oil liquefaction (see for example Minowa et al.,
Fue/74(12): 1735-1738 (1995)); or supercritical C0 2 extraction (see for example Mendes et
al., Inorganica Chimica Acta 356:328-334 (2003)).
[0524]     Oil extraction includes the addition of an oil directly to a lysate without prior
separation of the lysate components. After addition of the oil, the lysate separates either of its
own accord or as a result of centrifugation or the like into different layers. The layers can
include in order of decreasing density: a pellet of heavy solids, an aqueous phase, an
emulsion phase, and an oil phase. The emulsion phase is an emulsion of lipids and aqueous
phase. Depending on the percentage of oil added with respect to the lysate (w/w or v/v), the
force of centrifugation if any, volume of aqueous media and other factors, either or both of
the emulsion and oil phases can be present. Incubation or treatment of the cell lysate or the
emulsion phase with the oil is performed for a time sufficient to allow the lipid produced by
the microorganism to become solubilized in the oil to form a heterogeneous mixture.
[0525]     In various embodiments, the oil used in the extraction process is selected from the
group consisting of oil from soy, rapeseed, canola, palm, palm kernel, coconut, corn, waste
vegetable oil, Chinese tallow, olive, sunflower, cotton seed, chicken fat, beef tallow, porcine
tallow, microalgae, macroalgae, Cuphea, flax, peanut, choice white grease (lard), Camelina
sativa mustard seedcashew nut, oats, lupine, kenaf, calendula, hemp, coffee, linseed,
hazelnut, euphorbia, pumpkin seed, coriander, camellia, sesame, safflower, rice, tung oil tree,
cocoa, copra, pium poppy, castor beans, pecan, jojoba, jatropha, macadamia, Brazil nuts, and
avocado. The amount of oil added to the lysate is typically greater than 5% (measured by v/v
and/or w/w) of the lysate with which the oil is being combined. Thus, a preferred v/v or w/w
of the oil is greater than 5%, 10%, 20%, 25%, 50%, 70%, 90%, or at least 95% of the cell
lysate.
[0526]     Lipids can also be extracted from a lysate via a solventless extraction procedure
without substantial or any use of organic solvents or oils by cooling the lysate. Sonication
can also be used, particularly if the temperature is between room temperature and 65°C. Such
a lysate on centrifugation or settling can be separated into layers, one of which is an
aqueous:lipid layer. Other layers can include a solid pellet, an aqueous layer, and a lipid
                                                142

layer. Lipid can be extracted from the emulsion layer by freeze thawing or otherwise cooling
the emulsion. In such methods, it is not necessary to add any organic solvent or oil. If any
solvent or oil is added, it can be below 5% v/v or w/w of the lysate.
IX.        COMBINING RECOMBINANT MICROALGAL BIOMASS OR
MATERIALS DERIVED THEREFROM WITH OTHER FOOD INGREDIENTS
[0527]     In one aspect, the present invention is directed to a food composition comprising at
least 0.1 % w/w algal biomass and one or more other edible ingredients, wherein the algal
biomass comprises at least 10% triglyceride by dry weight, optionally wherein at least 90%
of the oil is glycerolipid. The algal cells are cultivated heterotrophically and optionally in the
absence of light. In some embodiments, the algal biomass contains at least 25%, 40%, 50%
or 60% oil by dry weight. In some cases, the algal biomass contains 10-90%, 25-75%, 40-
75% or 50-70% oil by dry weight, optionally wherein at least 90% of the oil is glycerolipid.
In at least one embodiment, at least 50% by weight of the oil is monounsaturated glycerolipid
oil. In some cases, at least 50%, 60%, 70% 80% or 90% by weight of the oil is a C18:1 lipid.
In some embodiments, the lipid profile of the algal triglyceride oil is similar to a naturally
occurring oil. Some of the naturally occurring oils are provided in table 5. In one
embodiment, the algal triglycerides produced by the invention are similar to cocoa butter,
coconut oil, palm oil, beef tallow or lard. In some cases, less than 5% by weight of the oil is
docosahexanoic acid (DHA) (22:6). In at least one embodiment, less than 1% by weight of
the oil is DHA. An algal lipid content with low levels of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUPA)
is preferred to ensure chemical stability of the biomass. In preferred embodiments, the algal
biomass is grown under heterotrophic conditions and has reduced green pigmentation. In
other embodiments, the microalgae is a color mutant that lacks or is reduced in pigmentation.
[0528]     This invention also provide a food composition comprising at least 0.1 % w/w algal
triglyceride oil isolated from recombinant algal cells cultivated under heterotrophic
conditions and one or more other ingredients. The recombinant algal cells can be optionally
cultivated in the dark. In some embodiments, the triglyceride profile of the algal triglycerol
oil is similar to the triglyceride profile of a naturally occurring oil. Some of the naturally
occurring oils are provided in table 5. In an embodiment of the invention, the algal
triglycerides produced by the invention are similar to cocoa butter, coconut oil, palm oil, beef
tallow or lard. In at least one embodiment, at least 50% by weight of the oil is
monounsaturated glycerolipid oil. In some cases, at least 50%, 60%, 70% 80% or 90% by
weight of the oil is a C18: 1 lipid.
                                                  143

[0529]     In another aspect, the present invention is directed to a food composisiton
comprising at least 0.1 % w/w algal biomass and one or more other edible ingredients,
wherein the algal biomass comprises at least 30% protein by dry weight, at least 40% protein
by dry weight, at least 45% protein by dry weight, at least 50% protein by dry weight, at least
55% protein by dry weight, at least 60% protein by dry weight or at least 75% protein by dry
weight. In some cases, the algal biomass contains 30-75% or 40-60% protein by dry weight.
In some embodiments, at least 40% of the crude protein is digestible, at least 50% of the
crude protein is digestible, at least 60% of the crude protein is digestible, at least 70% of the
crude protein is digestible, at least 80% of the crude protein is digestible, or at least 90% of
the crude protein is digestible. In some cases, the algal biomass is grown under heterotrophic
conditions. In at least one embodiment, the algal biomass is grown under nitrogen-replete
conditions. In other embodiments, the microalgae is a color mutant that lacks or is reduced in
pigmentation.
[0530]     In some cases, the algal biomass comprises predominantly intact cells. In some
embodiments, the food composition comprises oil which is predominantly or completely
encapsulated inside cells of the biomass. In some cases, the food composition comprises
predominantly intact recombinant microalgal cells. In some cases, the algal oil is
predominantly encapsulated in cells of the biomass. In other cases, the biomass comprises
predominantly lysed cells (e.g., a homogenate). As discussed above, such a homogenate can
be provided as a slurry, flake, powder, or flour.
[0531]     In some embodiments of the food composition, the algal biomass further comprises
at least 10 ppm selenium. In some cases, the biomass further comprises at least 15% w/w
algal polysaccharide. In some cases, the biomass further comprises at least 5% w/w algal
glycoprotein. In some cases, the biomass comprises between 0 and 115 mcg/g total
carotenoids. In some cases, the biomass comprises at least 0.5% w/w algal phospholipids. In
all cases, as just noted, these components are true cellular components and not extracellular.
[0532]     In some cases, the algal biomass of the food composition contains components that
have antioxidant qualities. The strong antioxidant qualities can be attributed to the multiple
antioxidants present in the algal biomass, which include, but are not limited to carotenoids,
essential minerals such as zinc, copper, magnesium, calcium, and manganese. Algal biomass
has also been shown to contain other antioxidants such as tocotrienols and tocopherols.
These members of the vitamin E family are important antioxidants and have other health
benefits such as protective effects against stroke-induced injuries, reversal of arterial
blockage, growth inhibition of breast and prostate cancer cells, reduction in cholesterol
                                                144

levels, a reduced-risk of type II diabetes and protective effects against glaucomatous damage.
Natural sources of tocotrienols and tocopherols can be found in oils produced from palm,
sunflower, corn, soybean and olive oil, however compositions provided herein have
significantly greater levels of tocotrienols than heretofore known materials.
[0533]     In some cases, food compositions of the present invention contain algal oil
comprising at least 0.05 mg/g, at least 0.07 mg/g or at least 0.08 mg/g total tocopherol. In
some cases, food compositions of the present invention contain algal oil comprising at least
0.15mg/g, at least 0.20mg/g or at least 0.25mg/g total tocotrienol.
[0534]     In particular embodiments of the compositions and/or methods described above, the
microalgae can produce carotenoids. In some embodiments, the carotenoids produced by the
microalgae can be co-extracted with the lipids or oil produced by the microalgae (i.e., the oil
or lipid will contain the carotenoids). In some embodiments, the carotenoids produced by the
microalgae are xanthophylls. In some embodiments, the carotenoids produced by the
microalgae are carotenes. In some embodiments, the carotenoids produced by the microalgae
are a mixture of carotenes and xanthophylls. In various embodiments, the carotenoids
produced by the microalgae comprise at least one carotenoid selected from the group
consisting of astaxanthin, lutein, zeaxanthin, alpha-carotene, trans-beta carotene, cis-beta
carotene, lycopene and any combination thereof.
[0535]     In some embodiments of the food composition, the algal biomass is derived from
algae cultured and dried under good manufacturing practice (GMP) conditions. In some
cases, the algal biomass is combined with one or more other edible ingredients, including
without limitation, grain, fruit, vegetable, protein, lipid, herb and/or spice ingredients. In
some cases, the food composition is a salad dressing, egg product, baked good, bread, bar,
pasta, sauce, soup drink, beverage, frozen dessert, butter or spread. In particular
embodiments, the food composition is not a pill or powder. In some cases, the food
composition in accordance with the present invention weighs at least 50g, or at least lOOg.
[0536]     Biomass can be combined with one or more other edible ingredients to make a food
product. The biomass can be from a single algal source (e.g., strain) or algal biomass from
multiple sources (e.g., different strains). The biomass can also be from a single algal species,
but with different composition profile. For example, a manufacturer can blend microalgae
that is high in oil content with microalgae that is high in protein content to the exact oil and
protein content that is desired in the finished food product. The combination can be
performed by a food manufacturer to make a finished product for retail sale or food service
use. Alternatively, a manufacturer can sell algal biomass as a product, and a consumer can
                                                145

incorporate the algal biomass into a food product, for example, by modification of a
conventional recipe. In either case, the algal biomass is typically used to replace all or part of
the oil, fat, eggs, or the like used in many conventional food products.
[0537]     In one aspect, the present invention is directed to a food composition comprising at
lest 0.1 % w/w algal biomass and one or more other edible ingredients, wherein the algal
biomass is formulated thorugh blending of algal biomass that contains at least 40% protein by
dry weight with algal biomass that contains 40% lipid by dry weight to obtain a blend of a
desired percent protein and lipid by dry weight. In some embodiments, the biomass is from
the same strain of algae. Alternatively, algal biomass that contains at least 40% lipid by dry
weight containing less than 1% of its lipid as DHA is blended with algal biomass that
contains at lest 20% lipid by dry weight containing at least 5% of its lipid as DHA to obtain a
blend of dry biomass that contains in the aggregate at least 10% lipid and 1% DHA by dry
weight.
[0538]     In one aspect, the present invention is directed to a method of preparing algal
biomass by drying an algal culture to provide algal biomass comprising at least 15% oil by
dry weight under GMP conditions, in which the algal oil is greater than 50%
monounsaturated lipid.
[0539]     In one aspect, the present invention is directed to algal biomass containing at least
15% oil by dry weight manufactured under GMP conditions, in which the algal oil is greater
than 50%, 60%, 70%, 80% or 90% C18: 1 lipid. In one aspect, the present invention is
directed to algal biomass containing at least 40% oil by dry weight manufactured under GMP
conditions. In one aspect, the present invention is directed to algal biomass containing at
least 55% oil by dry weight manufactured under GMP conditions. In some cases, the algal
biomass is packaged as a tablet for delivery of a unit dose of biomass. In some cases, the
algal biomass is packaged with or otherwise bears a label providing directions for combining
the algal biomass with other edible ingredients.
[0540]     In one aspect, the present invention is directed to methods of combining
recombinant microalgal biomass and/or materials derived therefrom, as described above, with
at least one other finished food ingredient, as described below, to form a food composition or
foodstuff. In various embodiments, the food composition formed by the methods of the
invention comprises an egg product (powdered or liquid), a pasta product, a dressing product,
a mayonnaise product, a cake product, a bread product, an energy bar, a milk product, a juice
product, a spread, or a smoothie. In some cases, the food composition is not a pill or powder.
In various embodiments, the food composition weighs at least 10 g, at least 25 g, at least 50
                                                146

g, at least 100 g, at least 250 g, or at least 500 g or more. In some embodiments, the food
composition formed by the combination of recombinant microalgal biomass and/or product
derived therefrom is an uncooked product. In other cases, the food composition is a cooked
product.
[0541]     In other cases, the food composition is a cooked product. In some cases, the food
composition contains less than 25 % oil or fat by weight excluding oil contributed by the algal
biomass. Fat, in the form of saturated triglycerides (TA Gs or trans fats), is made when
hydrogenating vegetable oils, as is practiced when making spreads such as margarines. The
fat contained in algal biomass has no trans fats present. In some cases, the food composition
contains less than 10% oil or fat by weight excluding oil contributed by the biomass. In at
least one embodiment, the food composition is free of oil or fat excluding oil contributed by
the biomass. In some cases, the food composition is free of oil other than oil contributed by
the biomass. In some cases, the food composition is free of egg or egg products.
[0542]     In one aspect, the present invention is directed to a method of making a food
composition in which the fat or oil in a conventional food product is fully or partially
substituted with algal biomass containing at least 10% by weight oil. In one embodiment, the
method comprises determining an amount of the algal biomass for substitution using the
proportion of algal oil in the biomass and the amount of oil or fat in the conventional food
product, and combining the algal biomass with at least one other edible ingredient and less
than the amount of oil or fat contained in the conventional food product to form a food
composition. In some cases, the amount of algal biomass combined with the at least one
other ingredient is 1-4 times the mass or volume of oil and/or fat in the conventional food
product.
[0543]     In some embodiments, the method described above further includes providing a
recipe for a conventional food product containing the at least one other edible ingredient
combined with an oil or fat, and combining 1-4 times the mass or volume of the algal
biomass with the at least one other edible ingredient as the mass or volume of fat or oil in the
conventional food product. In some cases, the method further includes preparing the algal
biomass under GMP conditions.
[0544]     In some cases, the food composition formed by the combination of recombinant
microalgal biomass and/or product derived therefrom comprises at least 0.1 %, at least 0.5%,
at least 1%, at least 5%, at least 10%, at least 25%, or at least 50% w/w or v/v recombinant
microalgal biomass or recombinant microalgal oil. In some embodiments, food compositions
formed as described herein comprise at least 2%, at least 5%, at least 10%, at least 25%, at
                                                  147

least 50%, at least 75%, at least 90%, or at least 95% w/w recombinant microalgal biomass or
product derived therefrom. In some cases, the food composition comprises 5-50%, 10-40%,
or 15-35% algal biomass or product derived therefrom by weight or by volume.
[0545]     As described above, recombinant microalgal biomass can be substituted for other
components that would otherwise be conventionally included in a food product. In some
embodiments, the food composition contains less than 50%, less than 40%, or less than 30%
oil or fat by weight excluding recombinant microalgal oil contributed by the biomass or from
recombinant microalgal sources. In some cases, the food composition contains less than
25%, less than 20%, less than 15%, less than 10%, or less than 5% oil or fat by weight
excluding recombinant microalgal oil contributed by the biomass or from recombinant
microalgal sources. In at least one embodiment, the food composition is free of oil or fat
excluding recombinant microalgal oil contributed by the biomass or from recombinant
microalgal sources. In some cases, the food composition is free of eggs, butter, or other
fats/oils or at least one other ingredient that would ordinarily be included in a comparable
conventional food product. Some food products are free of dairy products (e.g., butter, cream
and/or cheese).
[0546]     The amount of algal biomass used to prepare a food composition depends on the
amount of non-algal oil, fat, eggs, or the like to be replaced in a conventional food product
and the percentage of oil in the algal biomass. Thus, in at least one embodiment, the methods
of the invention include determining an amount of the algal biomass to combine with at least
one other edible ingredient from a proportion of oil in the biomass and a proportion of oil
and/or fat that is ordinarily combined with the at least one other edible ingredient in a
conventional food product. For example, if the algal biomass is 50% w/w recombinant
microalgal oil, and complete replacement of oil or fat in a conventional recipe is desired, then
the oil can for example be replaced in a 2: 1 ratio. The ratio can be measured by mass, but for
practical purposes, it is often easier to measure volume using a measuring cup or spoon, and
the replacement can be by volume. In a general case, the volume or mass of oil or fat to be
replaced is replaced by (100/100-X) volume or mass of algal biomass, where Xis the
percentage of recombinant microalgal oil in the biomass. In general, oil and fats to be
replaced in conventional recipes can be replaced in total by algal biomass, although total
replacement is not necessary and any desired proportion of oil and/or fats can be retained and
the remainder replaced according to taste and nutritional needs. Because the algal biomass
contains proteins and phospholipids, which function as emulsifiers, items such as eggs can be
replaced in total or in part with algal biomass. If an egg is replaced in total with biomass, it is
                                                 148

sometimes desirable or necessary to augment the emulsifying properties in the food
composition with an additional emulsifying agent(s) and/or add additional water or other
liquid(s) to compensate for the loss of these components that would otherwise be provided by
the egg. Because an egg is not all fat, the amount of biomass used to replace an egg may be
less than that used to replace pure oil or fat. An average egg weighs about 58 g and
comprises about 11.2% fat. Thus, about 13 g of algal biomass comprising 50% recombinant
microalgal oil by weight can be used to replace the total fat portion of an egg in total.
Replacing all or part of the eggs in a food product has the additional benefit of reducing
cholesterol.
[0547]     For simplicity, substitution ratios can also be provided in terms of mass or volume
of oil, fat and/or eggs replaced with mass or volume of biomass. In some methods, the mass
or volume of oil, fat and/or eggs in a conventional recipe is replaced with 5-150%, 25-100%
or 25-75% of the mass or volume of oil, fat and/or eggs. The replacement ratio depends on
factors such as the food product, desired nutritional profile of the food product, overall
texture and appearance of the food product, and oil content of the biomass.
[0548]     In cooked foods, the determination of percentages (i.e., weight or volume) can be
made before or after cooking. The percentage of algal biomass can increase during the
cooking process because of loss of liquids. Because some algal biomass cells may lyse in the
course of the cooking process, it can be difficult to measure the content of algal biomass
directly in a cooked product. However, the content can be determined indirectly from the
mass or volume of biomass that went into the raw product as a percentage of the weight or
volume of the finished product (on a biomass dry solids basis), as well as by methods of
analyzing components that are unique to the algal biomass such as genomic sequences or
compounds that are delivered solely by the algal biomass, such as certain carotenoids.
[0549]     In some cases, it may be desirable to combine algal biomass with the at least one
other edible ingredient in an amount that exceeds the proportional amount of oil, fat, eggs, or
the like that is present in a conventional food product. For example, one may replace the
mass or volume of oil and/or fat in a conventional food product with 1, 2, 3, 4, or more times
that amount of algal biomass. Some embodiments of the methods of the invention include
providing a recipe for a conventional food product containing the at least one other edible
ingredient combined with an oil or fat, and combining 1-4 times the mass or volume of algal
biomass with the at least one other edible ingredient as the mass or volume of fat or oil in the
conventional food product.
                                                 149

[0550]    Algal biomass (predominantly intact or homogenized or micronized) and/or algal oil
are combined with at least one other edible ingredient to form a food product. In some food
products, the algal biomass and/or algal oil is combined with 1-20, 2-10, or 4-8 other edible
ingredients. The edible ingredients can be selected from all the major food groups, including
without limitation, fruits, vegetables, legumes, meats, fish, grains (e.g., wheat, rice, oats,
cornmeal, barley), herbs, spices, water, vegetable broth, juice, wine, and vinegar. In some
food compositions, at least 2, 3, 4, or 5 food groups are represented as well as the algal
biomass or algal oil.
[0551]    Oils, fats, eggs and the like can also be combined into food compositions, but, as
has been discussed above, are usually present in reduced amounts (e.g., less than 50%, 25%,
or 10% of the mass or volume of oil, fat or eggs compared with conventional food products.
Some food products of the invention are free of oil other than that provided by algal biomass
and/or algal oil. Some food products are free of oil other than that provided by algal biomass.
Some food products are free of fats other than that provided by algal biomass or algal oil.
Some food products are free of fats other than that provided by algal biomass. Some food
products are free of both oil and fats other than that provided by algal biomass or algal oil.
Some food products are free of both oil and fats other than that provided by algal biomass.
Some food products are free of eggs. In some embodiments, the oils produced by the
microalgae can be tailored by culture conditions or strain selection to comprise a particular
fatty acid component(s) or levels.
[0552]    In some cases, the algal biomass used in making the food composition comprises a
mixture of at least two distinct species of microalgae. In some cases, at least two of the
distinct species of microalgae have been separately cultured. In at least one embodiment, at
least two of the distinct species of microalgae have different glycerolipid profiles. In some
cases, the method described above further comprises culturing algae under heterotrophic
conditions and preparing the biomass from the algae. In some cases, all of the at least two
distinct species of microalgae contain at least 10%, or at least 15% oil by dry weight. In
some cases, a food composition contains a blend of two distinct preparations of biomass of
the same species, wherein one of the preparations contains at least 30% oil by dry weight and
the second contains less than 15% oil by dry weight. In some cases, a food composition
contains a blend of two distinct preparations of biomass of the same species, wherein one of
the preparations contains at least 50% oil by dry weight and the second contains less than
15% oil by dry weight, and further wherein the species is Chiarella protothecoides.
                                                150

[0553]     As well as using algal biomass as an oil, fat or egg replacement in otherwise
conventional foods, algal biomass can be used as a supplement in foods that do not normally
contain oil, such as a smoothie. The combination of oil with products that are mainly
carbohydrate can have benefits associated with the oil, and from the combination of oil and
carbohydrate by reducing the glycemic index of the carbohydrate. The provision of oil
encapsulated in biomass is advantageous in protecting the oil from oxidation and can also
improve the taste and texture of the smoothie.
[0554]     Oil extracted from algal biomass can be used in the same way as the biomass itself,
that is, as a replacement for oil, fat, eggs, or the like in conventional recipes. The oil can be
used to replace conventional oil and/or fat on about a 1: 1 weight/weight or volume/volume
basis. The oil can be used to replace eggs by substitution of about 1 teaspoon of algal oil per
egg optionally in combination with additional water and/or an emulsifier (an average 58g egg
is about 11.2% fat, algal oil has a density of about 0.915 g/ml, and a teaspoon has a volume
of about 5 ml = 1.2 teaspoons of algal oil/egg). The oil can also be incorporated into
dressings, sauces, soups, margarines, creamers, shortenings and the like. The oil is
particularly useful for food products in which combination of the oil with other food
ingredients is needed to give a desired taste, texture and/or appearance. The content of oil by
weight or volume in food products can be at least 5, 10, 25, 40 or 50%.
[0555]     In at least one embodiment, oil extracted from algal biomass can also be used as a
cooking oil by food manufacturers, restaurants and/or consumers. In such cases, algal oil can
replace conventional cooking oils such as safflower oil, canola oil, olive oil, grape seed oil,
corn oil, sunflower oil, coconut oil, palm oil, or any other conventionally used cooking oil.
The oil obtained from algal biomass as with other types of oil can be subjected to further
refinement to increase its suitability for cooking (e.g., increased smoke point). Oil can be
neutralized with caustic soda to remove free fatty acids. The free fatty acids form a
removable soap stock. The color of oil can be removed by bleaching with chemicals such as
carbon black and bleaching earth. The bleaching earth and chemicals can be separated from
the oil by filtration. Oil can also be deodorized by treating with steam.
[0556]     Predominantly intact biomass, homogenized or micronized biomass (as a slurry,
flake, powder or flour) and purified algal oil can all be combined with other food ingredients
to form food products. All are a source of oil with a favorable nutritional profile (relatively
high monounsaturated content). Predominantly intact, homogenized, and micronized
biomass also supply high quality protein (balanced amino acid composition), carbohydrates,
fiber and other nutrients as dicussed above. Foods incorporating any of these products can be
                                                  151

made in vegan or vegetarian form. Another advantage in using recombinant microalgal
biomass (either predominantly intact or homogenized (or micronized) or both) as a protein
source is that it is a vegan/vegetarian protein source that is not from a major allergen source,
such as soy, eggs or dairy.
[0557]     Other edible ingredients with which algal biomass and/or algal oil can be combined
in accordance with the present invention include, without limitation, grains, fruits, vegetables,
proteins, meats, herbs, spices, carbohydrates, and fats. The other edible ingredients with
which the algal biomass and/or algal oil is combined to form food compositions depend on
the food product to be produced and the desired taste, texture and other properties of the food
product.
[0558]     Although in general any of these sources of algal oil can be used in any food
product, the preferred source depends in part whether the oil is primarily present for
nutritional or caloric purposes rather than for texture, appearance or taste of food, or
alternatively whether the oil in combination with other food ingredients is intended to
contribute a desired taste, texture or appearance of the food as well as or instead of improving
its nutritional or caloric profile.
[0559]     The food products can be cooked by conventional procedures as desired.
Depending on the length and temperature, the cooking process may break down some cell
walls, releasing oil such that it combines with other ingredients in the mixture. However, at
least some algal cells often survive cooking intact. Alternatively, food products can be used
without cooking. In this case, the algal wall remains intact, protecting the oil from oxidation.
[0560]     The algal biomass, if provided in a form with cells predominantly intact, or as a
homogenate powder, differs from oil, fat or eggs in that it can be provided as a dry ingredient,
facilitating mixing with other dry ingredients, such as flour. In one embodiment the algal
biomass is provided as a dry homogenate that contains between 25 and 40% oil by dry
weight. A biomass homogenate can also be provided as slurry. After mixing of dry
ingredients (and biomass homogenate slurry, if used), liquids such as water can be added. In
some food products, the amount of liquid required is somewhat higher than in a conventional
food product because of the non-oil component of the biomass and/or because water is not
being supplied by other ingredients, such as eggs. However, the amount of water can readily
be determined as in conventional cooking.
[0561]     In one aspect, the present invention is directed to a food ingredient composition
comprising at least 0.5% w/w algal biomass containing at least 10% algal oil by dry weight
and at least one other edible ingredient, in which the food ingredient can be converted into a
                                                152

reconstituted food product by addition of a liquid to the food ingredient composition. In one
embodiment, the liquid is water.
[0562]    Homogenized or micronized high-oil biomass is particularly advantageous in
liquid,and/or emulsified food products (water in oil and oil in water emulsions), such as
sauces, soups, drinks, salad dressings, butters, spreads and the like in which oil contributed
by the biomass forms an emulsion with other liquids. Products that benefit from improved
rheology, such as dressings, sauces and spreads are described below in the Examples. Using
homogenized biomass an emulsion with desired texture (e.g., mouth-feel), taste and
appearance (e.g., opacity) can form at a lower oil content (by weight or volume of overall
product) than is the case with conventional products employing conventional oils, thus can be
used as a fat extender. Such is useful for low-calorie (i.e., diet) products. Purified algal oil is
also advantageous for such liquid and/or emulsified products. Both homogenized or
micronized high-oil biomass and purified algal oil combine well with other edible ingredients
in baked goods achieving similar or better taste, appearance and texture to otherwise similar
products made with conventional oils, fats and/or eggs but with improved nutritional profile
(e.g., higher content of monosaturated oil, and/or higher content or quality of protein, and/or
higher content of fiber and/or other nutrients).
[0563]    Predominantly intact biomass is particularly useful in situations in which it is
desired to change or increase the nutritional profile of a food (e.g., higher oil content,
different oil content (e.g., more monounsaturated oil), higher protein content, higher calorie
content, higher content of other nutrients). Such foods can be useful for example, for athletes
or patients suffering from wasting disorders. Predominantly intact biomass can be used as a
bulking agent. Bulking agents can be used, for example, to augment the amount of a more
expensive food (e.g., meat helper and the like) or in simulated or imitation foods, such as
vegetarian meat substitutes. Simulated or imitation foods differ from natural foods in that the
flavor and bulk are usually provided by different sources. For example, flavors of natural
foods, such as meat, can be imparted into a bulking agent holding the flavor. Predominantly
intact biomass can be used as a bulking agent in such foods. Predominantly intact biomass is
also particularly useful in dried food, such as pasta because it has good water binding
properties, and can thus facilitate rehydration of such foods. Predominantly intact biomass is
also useful as a preservative, for example, in baked goods. The predominantly intact biomass
can improve water retention and thus shelf-life.
[0564]    Algal biomass that has been disrupted or micronized can also improve water
retention and thus shelf-life. Increased moisture retention is especially desirable in gluten-
                                                153

free products, such as gluten-free baked goods. A detailed description of formulation of a
gluten-free cookie using disrupted algal biomass and subsequent shelf-life study is described
in the Examples below.
[0565]     In some cases, the algal biomass can be used in egg preparations. In some
embodiments, algal biomass (e.g., algal flour) added to a conventional dry powder egg
preparation to create scrambled eggs that are creamier, have more moisture and a better
texture than dry powdered eggs prepared without the algal biomass. In other embodiments,
algal biomass is added to whole liquid eggs in order to improve the overall texture and
moisture of eggs that are prepared and then held on a steam table. Specific examples of the
foregoing preparations are described in the Examples below.
[0566]     Algal biomass (predominantly intact and/or homogenized or micronized) and/or
algal oil can be incorporated into virtually any food composition. Some examples include
baked goods, such as cakes, brownies, yellow cake, bread including brioche, cookies
including sugar cookies, biscuits, and pies. Other examples include products often provided
in dried form, such as pastas or powdered dressing, dried creamers, commuted meats and
meat substitutes. Incorporation of predominantly intact biomass into such products as a
binding and/or bulking agent can improve hydration and increase yield due to the water
binding capacity of predominantly intact biomass. Re-hydrated foods, such as scrambled
eggs made from dried powdered eggs, may also have improved texture and nutritional
profile. Other examples include liquid food products, such as sauces, soups, dressings (ready
to eat), creamers, milk drinks, juice drinks, smoothies, creamers. Other liquid food products
include nutritional beverages that serve as a meal replacement or algal milk. Other food
products include butters or cheeses and the like including shortening, margarine/spreads, nut
butters, and cheese products, such as nacho sauce. Other food products include energy bars,
chocolate confections-lecithin replacement, meal replacement bars, granola bar-type
products. Another type of food product is batters and coatings. By providing a layer of oil
surrounding a food, predominantly intact biomass or a homogenate repel additional oil from a
cooking medium from penetrating a food. Thus, the food can retain the benefits of high
monounsaturated oil content of coating without picking up less desirable oils (e.g., trans fats,
saturated fats, and by products from the cooking oil). The coating of biomass can also
provide a desirable (e.g., crunchy) texture to the food and a cleaner flavor due to less
absorption of cooking oil and its byproducts.
[0567]     In uncooked foods, most algal cells in the biomass remain intact. This has the
advantage of protecting the algal oil from oxidation, which confers a long shelf-life and
                                               154

minimizes adverse interaction with other ingredients. Depending on the nature of the food
products, the protection conferred by the cells may reduce or avoid the need for refrigeration,
vacuum packaging or the like. Retaining cells intact also prevents direct contact between the
oil and the mouth of a consumer, which reduces the oily or fatty sensation that may be
undesirable. In food products in which oil is used more as nutritional supplement, such can
be an advantage in improving the organoleptic properties of the product. Thus,
predominantly intact biomass is suitable for use in such products. However, in uncooked
products, such as a salad dressing, in which oil imparts a desired mouth feeling (e.g., as an
emulsion with an aqueous solution such as vinegar), use of purified algal oil or micronized
biomass is preferred. In cooked foods, some algal cells of original intact biomass may be
lysed but other algal cells may remain intact. The ratio of lysed to intact cells depends on the
temperature and duration of the cooking process. In cooked foods in which dispersion of oil
in a uniform way with other ingredients is desired for taste, texture and/or appearance (e.g.,
baked goods), use of micronized biomass or purified algal oil is preferred. In cooked foods,
in which algal biomass is used to supply oil and/or protein and other nutrients, primarily for
their nutritional or caloric value rather than texture.
[0568]    Algal biomass can also be useful in increasing the satiety index of a food product
(e.g., a meal-replacement drink or smoothie) relative to an otherwise similar conventional
product made without the algal biomass. The satiety index is a measure of the extent to
which the same number of calories of different foods satisfy appetite. Such an index can be
measured by feeding a food being tested and measuring appetite for other foods at a fixed
interval thereafter. The less appetite for other foods thereafter, the higher the satiety index.
Values of satiety index can be expressed on a scale in which white bread is assigned a value
of 100. Foods with a higher satiety index are useful for dieting. Although not dependent on
an understanding of mechanism, algal biomass is believed to increase the satiety index of a
food by increasing the protein and/or fiber content of the food for a given amount of calories.
[0569]    Algal biomass (predominantly intact and homogenized or micronized) and/or algal
oil can also be manufactured into nutritional or dietary supplements. For example, algal oil
can be encapsulated into digestible capsules in a manner similar to fish oil. Such capsules
can be packaged in a bottle and taken on a daily basis (e.g., 1-4 capsules or tablets per day).
A capsule can contain a unit dose of algal biomass or algal oil. Likewise, biomass can be
optionally compressed with pharmaceutical or other excipients into tablets. The tablets can
be packaged, for example, in a bottle or blister pack, and taken daily at a dose of, e.g., 1-4
tablets per day. In some cases, the tablet or other dosage formulation comprises a unit dose
                                                 155

of biomass or algal oil. Manufacturing of capsule and tablet products and other supplements
is preferably performed under GMP conditions appropriate for nutritional supplements as
codified at 21 C.F.R. 111, or comparable regulations established by foreign jurisdictions.
The algal biomass can be mixed with other powders and be presented in sachets as a ready-
to-mix material (e.g., with water, juice, milk or other liquids). The algal biomass can also be
mixed into products such as yogurts.
[0570]    Although algal biomass and/or algal oil can be incorporated into nutritional
supplements, the functional food products discussed above have distinctions from typical
nutritional supplements, which are in the form of pills, capsules, or powders. The serving
size of such food products is typically much larger than a nutritional supplement both in
terms of weight and in terms of calories supplied. For example, food products often have a
weight of over lOOg and/or supply at least 100 calories when packaged or consumed at one
time. Typically food products contain at least one ingredient that is either a protein, a
carbohydrate or a liquid and often contain two or three such other ingredients. The protein or
carbohydrate in a food product often supplies at least 30%, 50%, or 60% of the calories of the
food product.
[0571]    As discussed above, algal biomass can be made by a manufacturer and sold to a
consumer, such as a restaurant or individual, for use in a commercial setting or in the home.
Such algal biomass is preferably manufactured and packaged under Good Manufacturing
Practice (GMP) conditions for food products. The algal biomass in predominantly intact
form or homogenized or micronized form as a powder is often packaged dry in an airtight
container, such as a sealed bag. Homogenized or micronized biomass in slurry form can be
conveniently packaged in a tub among other containers. Optionally, the algal biomass can be
packaged under vacuum to enhance shelf life. Refrigeration of packaged algal biomass is not
required. The packaged algal biomass can contain instructions for use including directions
for how much of the algal biomass to use to replace a given amount of oil, fat or eggs in a
conventional recipe, as discussed above. For simplicity, the directions can state that oil or fat
are to be replaced on a 2: 1 ratio by mass or volume of biomass, and eggs on a ratio of 1lg
biomass or 1 teaspoon of algal oil per egg. As discussed above, other ratios are possible, for
example, using a ratio of 10-175% mass or volume of biomass to mass or volume of oil
and/or fat and/or eggs in a conventional recipe. Upon opening a sealed package, the
instructions may direct the user to keep the algal biomass in an airtight container, such as
those widely commercially available (e.g., Glad), optionally with refrigeration.
                                               156

[0572]     Algal biomass (predominantly intact or homogenized or micronized powder) can
also be packaged in a form combined with other dry ingredients (e.g., sugar, flour, dry fruits,
flavorings) and portioned packed to ensure uniformity in the final product. The mixture can
then be converted into a food product by a consumer or food service company simply by
adding a liquid, such as water or milk, and optionally mixing, and/or cooking without adding
oils or fats. In some cases, the liquid is added to reconstitute a dried algal biomass
composition. Cooking can optionally be performed using a microwave oven, convection
oven, conventional oven, or on a cooktop. Such mixtures can be used for making cakes,
breads, pancakes, waffles, drinks, sauces and the like. Such mixtures have advantages of
convenience for the consumer as well as long shelf life without refrigeration. Such mixtures
are typically packaged in a sealed container bearing instructions for adding liquid to convert
the mixture into a food product.
[0573]     Algal oil for use as a food ingredient is likewise preferably manufactured and
packaged under GMP conditions for a food. The algal oil is typically packaged in a bottle or
other container in a similar fashion to conventionally used oils. The container can include an
affixed label with directions for using the oil in replacement of conventional oils, fats or eggs
in food products, and as a cooking oil. When packaged in a sealed container, the oil has a
long shelf-life (at least one year) without substantial deterioration. After opening, algal oil
comprised primarily of monounsaturated oils is not acutely sensitive to oxidation. However,
unused portions of the oil can be kept longer and with less oxidation if kept cold and/or out of
direct sunlight (e.g., within an enclosed space, such as a cupboard). The directions included
with the oil can contain such preferred storage information.
[0574]     Optionally, the algal biomass and/or the algal oil may contain a food approved
preservative/antioxidant to maximize shelf-life, including but not limited to, carotenoids (e.g.,
astaxanthin, lutein, zeaxanthin, alpha-carotene, beta-carotene and lycopene), phospholipids
(e.g., N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidic acid, phosphatidylethanolamine,
phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylinositol and lysophosphatidylcholine), tocopherols (e.g.,
alpha tocopherol, beta tocopherol, gamma tocopherol and delta tocopherol), tocotrienols (e.g.,
alpha tocotrienol, beta tocotrienol, gamma tocotrienol and delta tocotrienol), Butylated
hydroxytoluene, Butylated hydroxyanisole, polyphenols, rosmarinic acid, propyl gallate,
ascorbic acid, sodium ascorbate, sorbic acid, benzoic acid, methyl parabens, levulinic acid,
anisic acid, acetic acid, citric acid, and bioflavonoids.
                                                 157

[0575]     The description of incorporation of predominantly intact biomass, homogenized, or
micronized biomass (slurry, flake, powder, or flour) or algal oil into food for human nutrition
is in general also applicable to food products for non-human animals.
[0576]     The biomass imparts high quality oil or proteins or both in such foods. The content
of algal oil is preferably at least 10 or 20% by weight as is the content of algal protein.
Obtaining at least some of the algal oil and/or protein from predominantly intact biomass is
sometimes advantageous for food for high performance animals, such as sport dogs or horses.
Predominantly intact biomass is also useful as a preservative. Algal biomass or oil is
combined with other ingredients typically found in animal foods (e.g., a meat, meat flavor,
fatty acid, vegetable, fruit, starch, vitamin, mineral, antioxidant, pro biotic) and any
combination thereof. Such foods are also suitable for companion animals, particularly those
having an active life style. Inclusion of taurine is recommended for cat foods. As with
conventional animal foods, the food can be provided in bite-size particles appropriate for the
intended animal.
[0577]     Delipidated meal is useful as animal feed for farm animals, e.g., ruminants, poultry,
swine, and aquaculture. Delipidated meal is a byproduct of preparing purified algal oil either
for food or other purposes. The resulting meal although of reduced oil content still contains
high quality proteins, carbohydrates, fiber, ash and other nutrients appropriate for an animal
feed. Because the cells are predominantly lysed, delipidated meal is easily digestible by such
animals. Delipidated meal can optionally be combined with other ingredients, such as grain,
in an animal feed. Because delipidated meal has a powdery consistency, it can be pressed
into pellets using an extruder or expanders, which are commercially available.
[0578]     The tailored oils of the present invention can be used in place of conventional oils
such as palm oil, palm kernel oil, coconut oil, cocoa butter, tallow, or lard.
[0579]     Palm Oil.:.._Palm oil is used around the world in such foods as margarine,
shortening, baked goods, and confections. Palm oil is comprised of approximately 50%
saturated fat and 50% unsaturated fat, and can therefore be separated into (solid) palm stearin
containing C18:0 and lower chain saturated fatty acids and (liquid) palm olein containing
C18: 1 and higher chain unsaturated fatty acids. Palm stearin can be used to form solid trans-
free fats. A microbial triglyceride composition of the present invention in which the oil
comprises higher amounts of C 18: 1 is an excellent healthier substitute for partially
hydrogenated vegetable oils that are high in trans-fats that are commonly used today. Foods
containing trans-fats, including hydrogenated vegetable oils, are widely believed to be an
unhealthy food. The invention provides a tailored oil, higher in C18:1, that is healthier than
                                                158

the partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. Thus, the present invention provides a healthier oil
and meets the demands placed by the public on the food industry to supply healthier choices.
The tailored oils of the present invention can be used as a replacement of the unhealthy
partially hydrogenated vegetable oils.
[0580]      In addition to food products, palm oil, with its moderate linoleic acid content and
high level of natural antioxidants, is suitable for direct use in most cooking ad frying
applications. The use of palm oil as a frying oil is a major use of palm oil worldwide. Potato
chips, French fries, doughnuts, ramen noodles, nuts, etc. are typically fried in palm oil.
[0581]     For the large scale frying of potato chips, palm olein or a blend of palm olein with
soya or rapeseed oil is preferred. This is because the surface appearance of the finished
product is improved. French fries are often purchased as part fried and deep frozen products.
[0582]     In addition to its use in baking and frying, palm oil is also extensively used as an
ingredient in numerous types of foods, including biscuits, crackers, bread, cereals, chips,
chocolate, ice cream, soup, sauces, mayonnaise and many others.
[0583]     The palm oil mimetic of the present invention are a healthy replacement of palm oil
in the human food supply.
[0584]     Palm Kernel Oil & Coconut Oil:_Whole palm kernel oil and whole coconut oil as
well as fractionated parts are used alone or in blends with other oils for the manufacture of
cocoa butter substitutes and other confectionary fats (toffees and caramels), biscuit dough and
filling creams, cake icings, ice cream, imitation whipping cream, non-dairy creamers (coffee
whiteners), filled milk and table margarines and spreads. These oils are also used widely in
making bar and liquid soap. Palm kernel oil and coconut oil are high in C12:0 and C14:0.
Table 5 discloses that the total amount of C12:0 and C14:0 of coconut oil is approximately
50%-75%. Similarly, the total amount of C12:0 and C14:0 of palm kerne oil is
approximately 50%-70%. The present invention provides a palm oil mimetic, a microbial oil
comprising about 50%-75% C12:0 and C14:0.
[0585]     Cocoa Butter:_Cocoa butter, is a pale-yellow, pure edible vegetable fat extracted
from the cocoa bean. It is used to make chocolate, biscuits, baked goods, pharmaceuticals,
ointments and toiletries. Cocoa butter historically has served as a major ingredient in the
commercial production of both white chocolate and milk chocolate.
[0586]     Additionally, pharmaceutical companies have made use of cocoa butter's specific
physical properties. As an edible oil, solid at room temperature, but melts at body
temperature, it is considered an ideal base for delivering medicinal ingredients, for example
as a suppository.
                                                 159

          [0587]     Cocoa butter is also one of the most stable fats known, a quality that coupled with
          natural antioxidant that prevents rancidity, grants it a storage life of two to five years. The
          velvety texture, pleasant fragrance and emollient properties of cocoa butter have made it a
          popular ingredient in products for the skin, such as cosmetics, soaps and lotions.
          [0588]     The moisturizing abilities of cocoa butter are frequently recommended for
          prevention of stretch marks in pregnant women, treatment of chapped skin and lips, and as a
          daily moisturizer to prevent dry, itchy skin.
          [0589]     Example 14 provides a microbial triglyceride composition that is very similar to
          cocoa butter. The cocoa butter mimetic of the invention is useful in all applications that use
,.......i
          cocoa butter.
~         [0590]     Tallow: The USA is by far the biggest producer and exporter of beef tallow, with
          production accounting for approx. 25 to 30% of global oil and fat production. In the past,
          beef tallow was used in early cultures for lighting (woodchips soaked in beef tallow) and
          used for making soaps and ointments. Today, beef tallow is a major raw material used in the
          production of chemical intermediate products, such as fatty acids and fat alcohols. In addition
          to its principal uses in edible fats and oils, beef tallow is also used as baking and cooking fat,
          as well as in margarine production. With its similar fatty acid spectrum, beef tallow was
          formerly used to stretch cocoa butter.
          [0591]     In food and cooking, tallow may be used as oil for frying and as ingredient for
          making pemmican, a Native American dish. Tallow may also be used as shortening for
          breads and pastries and as part of the ingredients for margarine. Aside from beef fat, tallow
          may also be sourced from horses, sheep, and pigs. People who don't eat meat and are
          vegetarians have also their own version of tallow using wax isolated from the seeds of the
          tallow tree, Triadica sebiferum. Tallow is also used as part of the ingredients of various
          animal feeds like those for chickens and pigs.
          [0592]     The tallow mimetic as described herein is useful as a replacement of tallow.
          [0593]     Lard: Lard is isolated from pigs and is one of the few edible oils with a relatively
          high smoke point, attributable to its high saturated fatty acids content. Pure lard is especially
          useful for cooking since it produces little smoke when heated and has a distinct taste when
          combined with other foods. Many chefs and bakers deem lard a superior cooking fat over
          shortening because of lard's range of applications and taste.
          [0594]     Because of the relatively large fat crystals found in lard, it is extremely effective as
          a shortening in baking. Pie crusts made with lard tend to be more flaky than those made with
                                                           160

butter. Many cooks employ both types of fat in their pastries to combine the shortening
properties of lard with the flavor of butter.
[0595]    Example 14 provides a microbial triglyceride composition that is similar lard. The
lard mimetic of the invention is useful in all applications that use lard.
X.      EXAMPLES
EXAMPLE 1: Methods for Culturing Prototheca
[0596]    Prototheca strains were cultivated to achieve a high percentage of oil by dry cell
weight. Cryopreserved cells were thawed at room temperature and 500 ul of cells were added
to 4.5 ml of medium (4.2 g/L K2HP0 4 , 3.1 g/L NaH 2P0 4 , 0.24 g/L MgS0 4 ·7H2 0, 0.25 g/L
Citric Acid monohydrate, 0.025 g/L CaCh 2H20, 2g/L yeast extract) plus 2% glucose and
grown for 7 days at 28°C with agitation (200 rpm) in a 6-well plate. Dry cell weights were
determined by centrifuging 1 ml of culture at 14,000 rpm for 5 min in a pre-weighed
Eppendorf tube. The culture supernatant was discarded and the resulting cell pellet washed
with 1 ml of deionized water. The culture was again centrifuged, the supernatant discarded,
and the cell pellets placed at -80°C until frozen. Samples were then lyophilized for 24 hrs and
dry cell weights calculated. For determination of total lipid in cultures, 3 ml of culture was
removed and subjected to analysis using an Ankom system (Ankom Inc., Macedon, NY)
according to the manufacturer's protocol. Samples were subjected to solvent extraction with
an Amkom XTlO extractor according to the manufacturer's protocol. Total lipid was
determined as the difference in mass between acid hydrolyzed dried samples and solvent
extracted, dried samples. Percent oil dry cell weight measurements are shown in Table 10.
[0597]    Table 10. Percent oil by dry cell weight
             Species                  Strain            % Oil
 Prototheca stagnora             UTEX 327               13.14
 Prototheca moriformis           UTEX 1441              18.02
 Prototheca moriformis           UTEX 1435              27.17
[0598]    Microalgae samples from multiple strains from the genus Prototheca were
genotyped. Genomic DNA was isolated from algal biomass as follows. Cells (approximately
200 mg) were centifuged from liquid cultures 5 minutes at 14,000 x g. Cells were then
resuspended in sterile distilled water, centrifuged 5 minutes at 14,000 x g and the supernatant
discarded. A single glass bead -2mm in diameter was added to the biomass and tubes were
placed at -80°C for at least 15 minutes. Samples were removed and 150 µl of grinding buffer
(1 % Sarkosyl, 0.25 M Sucrose, 50 mM NaCl, 20 mM EDTA, 100 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0,
RNase A 0.5 ug/ul) was added. Pellets were resuspended by vortexing briefly, followed by
                                                161

the addition of 40 ul of SM NaCl. Samples were vortexed briefly, followed by the addition of
66 µl of 5% CTAB (Cetyl trimethylammonium bromide) and a final brief vortex. Samples
were next incubated at 65°C for 10 minutes after which they were centrifuged at 14,000 x g
for 10 minutes. The supernatant was transferred to a fresh tube and extracted once with 300
µl of Phenol:Chloroform:Isoamyl alcohol 12: 12: 1, followed by centrifugation for 5 minutes
at 14,000 x g. The resulting aqueous phase was transferred to a fresh tube containing 0.7 vol
of isopropanol (-190 µl), mixed by inversion and incubated at room temperature for 30
minutes or overnight at 4°C. DNA was recovered via centrifugation at 14,000 x g for 10
minutes. The resulting pellet was then washed twice with 70% ethanol, followed by a final
wash with 100% ethanol. Pellets were air dried for 20-30 minutes at room temperature
followed by resuspension in 50 µl of lOmM TrisCl, lmM EDT A (pH 8.0).
[0599]    Five µl of total algal DNA, prepared as described above, was diluted 1:50 in 10 mM
Tris, pH 8.0. PCR reactions, final volume 20 µl, were set up as follows. Ten µl of 2 x iProof
HF master mix (BIO-RAD) was added to 0.4 µl primer SZ02613 (5'-
TGTTGAAGAATGAGCCGGCGAC-3' (SEQ ID N0:9) at lOmM stock concentration). This
primer sequence runs from position 567-588 in Gen Bank accession no. L43357 and is highly
conserved in higher plants and algal plastid genomes. This was followed by the addition of
0.4 µl primer SZ02615 (5'-CAGTGAGCTATTACGCACTC-3' (SEQ ID NO:lO) at 10 mM
stock concentration). This primer sequence is complementary to position 1112-1093 in Gen
Bank accession no. L43357 and is highly conserved in higher plants and algal plastid
genomes. Next, 5 µl of diluted total DNA and 3.2 µl dH 20 were added. PCR reactions were
run as follows: 98°C, 45"; 98°C, 8"; 53°C, 12"; 72°C, 20" for 35 cycles followed by 72°C
for 1 min and holding at 25°C. For purification of PCR products, 20 µl of 10 mM Tris, pH
8.0, was added to each reaction, followed by extraction with 40 µl of
Phenol:Chloroform:isoamyl alcohol 12:12:1, vortexing and centrifuging at 14,000 x g for 5
minutes. PCR reactions were applied to S-400 columns (GE Healthcare) and centrifuged for 2
minutes at 3,000 x g. Purified PCR products were subsequently TOPO cloned into
PCR8/GW/TOPO and positive clones selected for on LB/Spec plates. Purified plasmid DNA
was sequenced in both directions using M13 forward and reverse primers. In total, twelve
Prototheca strains were selected to have their 23S rRNA DNA sequenced and the sequences
are listed in the Sequence Listing. A summary of the strains and Sequence Listing Numbers is
included below. The sequences were analyzed for overall divergence from the UTEX 1435
(SEQ ID NO: 15) sequence. Two pairs emerged (UTEX 329/UTEX 1533 and UTEX
329/UTEX 1440) as the most divergent. In both cases, pairwise alignment resulted in 75.0%
                                              162

          pairwise sequence identity. The percent sequence identity to UTEX 1435 is also included
          below:
          Species                           Strain                       % nt identity       SEQ ID  NO.
          Prototheca     kruegani           UTEX 329                       75.2              SEQ ID  NO:   11
          Prototheca     wickerhamii        UTEX 1440                       99               SEQ ID  NO:   12
          Prototheca     stagnora           UTEX 1442                      75.7              SEQ ID  NO:   13
          Prototheca     moriformis         UTEX288                        75.4              SEQ ID  NO:   14
          Prototheca     moriformis         UTEX 1439; 1441;               100               SEQ ID  NO:   15
                                            1435; 1437
          Prototheca wikerhamii             UTEX 1533                      99.8              SEQ ID  NO:   16
          Prototheca moriformis             UTEX 1434                      75.9              SEQ ID  NO:   17
          Prototheca zopfii                 UTEX 1438                      75.7              SEQ ID  NO:   18
          Prototheca moriformis             UTEX 1436                      88.9              SEQ ID  NO:   19
,.......i
~         [0600]     Lipid samples from a subset of the above-listed strains were analyzed for lipid
          profile using HPLC. Results are shown below in Table 11.
          [0601]     Table 11. Diversity of lipid chains in Prototheca species
           Strain      C14:0     C16:0      C16:1      C18:0         C18:1     C18:2   C18:3   C20:0     C20:1
           UTEX        0         12.01      0          0             50.33     17.14   0       0         0
           327
           UTEX        1.41      29.44      0.70       3.05          57.72     12.37   0.97    0.33      0
           1441
           UTEX        1.09      25.77      0          2.75          54.01     11.90   2.44    0         0
           1435
          [0602]     Oil extracted from Prototheca moriformis UTEX 1435 (via solvent extraction or
          using an expeller press was analyzed for carotenoids, chlorophyll, tocopherols, other sterols
          and tocotrienols. The results are summarized below in Table 12.
          [0603]     Table 12. Carotenoid, chlorophyll, tocopherol/sterols and tocotrienol analysis in oil
          extracted from Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435).
                                        Pressed oil       Solvent extracted
                                         (mcg/ml)            oil (mcg/ml)
           cis-Lutein                     0.041                  0.042
           trans-Lutein                   0.140                  0.112
           trans-Zeaxanthin               0.045                  0.039
           cis-Zeaxanthin                 0.007                  0.013
           t-alpha-Crytoxanthin           0.007                  0.010
           t-beta-Crytoxanthin            0.009                  0.010
           t-alpha-Carotene               0.003                  0.001
           c-alpha-Carotene            none detected        none detected
           t-beta-Carotene                0.010                  0.009
           9-cis-beta-Carotene            0.004                  0.002
           Lycopene                    none detected        none detected
           Total Carotenoids              0.267                  0.238
           Chlorophyll                 <0.01 mg/kg          <0.01 mg/kg
                               Tocopherols and Sterols
                                        Pressed oil       Solvent extracted
                                        (mg/lOOg)           oil (mg/lOOg)
           gamma Tocopherol                0.49                   0.49
                                                                163

 Campesterol                      6.09              6.05
 Stigmasterol                    47.6               47.8
 Beta-sitosterol                  11.6               11.5
 Other sterols                    445                446
                           Tocotrienols
                              Pressed oil    Solvent extracted
                                (mg/g)           oil (mg/g)
 alpha Tocotrienol               0.26               0.26
 beta Tocotrienol                <0.01             <0.01
 gamma Tocotrienol               0.10               0.10
 detal Tocotrienol               <0.01             <0.01
 Total Tocotrienols              0.36               0.36
[0604]     Oil extracted from Prototheca moriformis, from four separate lots, were refined and
bleached using standard vegetable oil processing methods. Briefly, crude oil extracted from
Prototheca moriformis was clarified in a horizontal decanter, where the solids were separated
from the oil. The clarified oil was then transferred to a tank with citric acid and water and
left to settle for approximately 24 hours. After 24 hours, the mixture in the tank formed 2
separate layers. The bottom layer was composed of water and gums that were then removed
by decantation prior to transferring the degummed oil into a bleaching tank. The oil was then
heated along with another dose of citric acid. Bleaching clay was then added to the bleaching
tank and the mixture was further heated under vacuum in order to evaporate off any water
that was present. The mixture was then pumped through a leaf filter in order to remove the
bleaching clay. The filtered oil was then passed through a final 5µm polishing filter and then
collected for storage until use. The refined and bleached (RB) oil was then analyzed for
carotenoids, chlorophyll, sterols, tocotrienols and tocopherols. The results of these analyses
are summarized in Table 13 below. "Nd" denotes none detected and the sensitivity of
detection is listed below:
           Sensitivity of Detection
           Carotenoids (mcg/g) nd = <0.003 mcg/g
           Chlorophyll (mcg/g) nd = <0.03 mcg/g
           Sterols (%) nd = 0.25%
           Tocopherols (mcg/g); nd = 3 mcg/g
[0605]     Table 13. Carotenoid, chlorophyll, sterols, tocotrienols and tocopherol analysis
from refined and bleached Prototheca moriformis oil.
                                    Lot A             LotB          LotC              LotD
                                          Carotenoids (mcw2)
 Lutein                             0.025             0.003          nd               0.039
 Zeaxanthin                           nd                nd           nd                 nd
 cis-Lutein/Zeaxanthin                nd                nd           nd                 nd
 trans-alpha-Cryptoxanthin            nd                nd           nd                 nd
                                                  164

 trans-beta-Cryptoxanthin         nd                   nd           nd                nd
 trans-alpha-Carotene             nd                   nd           nd                nd
 cis-alpha-Carotene               nd                   nd           nd                nd
 trans-beta-Carotene              nd                   nd           nd                nd
 cis-beta-Carotene                nd                   nd           nd                nd
 Lycopene                         nd                   nd           nd                nd
 Unidentified                   0.219               0.066         0.050             0.026
 Total Carotenoids              0.244               0.069         0.050             0.065
                                         Chlorophyll (mcg/g)
 Chlorophyll A                  0.268               0.136         0.045             0.166
 Chlorophyll B                    nd                   nd           nd                nd
 Total Chlorophyll              0.268               0.136         0.045             0.166
                                             Sterols (%)
 Brassicasterol                   nd                   nd           nd                nd
 Campesterol                      nd                   nd           nd                nd
 Stigmasterol                     nd                   nd           nd                nd
 beta-Sitosterol                  nd                   nd           nd                nd
 Total Sterols                    nd                   nd           nd                nd
                                         Tocopherols (mcg/g)
 alpha-Tocopherol                23.9                22.8          12.5               8.2
 beta-Tocopherol                 3.72                  nd           nd                nd
 gamma-Tocopherol                164                  85.3         43.1              38.3
 delta-Tocopherol                70.1                 31.1         18.1              14.3
 Total Tocopherols               262                 139.2         73.7              60.8
                                         Tocotrienols (mcg/g)
 alpha-Tocotrienol               190                  225          253               239
 beta-Tocotrienol                 nd                   nd           nd                nd
 gamma-Tocotrienol               47.3                 60.4         54.8              60.9
 delta-Tocotrienol               12.3                 16.1         17.5              15.2
 Total Tocotrienols              250                  302          325               315
[0606]     The same four lots of Prototheca moriformis oil was also analyzed for trace
elements and the results are summarized below in Table 14.
[0607]     Table 14. Elemental analysis of refined and bleached Prototheca moriformis oil.
                                  Lot A                LotB         Lot C              LotD
                                        Elemental Analysis (ppm)
 Calcium                           0.08                 0.07        <0.04               O.Q7
 Phosphorous                       < 0.2                0.38         < 0.2              0.33
 Sodium                            < 0.5                0.55         < 0.5             < 0.5
 Potassium                         1.02                 1.68         < 0.5              0.94
 Magnesium                        < 0.04               <0.04        <0.04               O.Q7
 Manganese                        < 0.05               < 0.05       < 0.05            < 0.05
 Iron                             < 0.02               < 0.02       < 0.02            < 0.02
 Zinc                             < 0.02               < 0.02       < 0.02            < 0.02
 Copper                           < 0.05               < 0.05       < 0.05            < 0.05
 Sulfur                            2.55                 4.45         2.36               4.55
 Lead                              < 0.2                < 0.2        < 0.2             < 0.2
 Silicon                           0.37                 0.41         0.26               0.26
 Nickel                            < 0.2                < 0.2        < 0.2             < 0.2
 Organic chloride                  < 1.0                < 1.0        < 1.0               2.2
 Inorganic chloride                < 1.0                < 1.0        < 1.0             < 1.0
 Nitrogen                           4.4                  7.8          4.2                6.9
 Lithium                          < 0.02               < 0.02       < 0.02            < 0.02
 Boron                             O.Q7                 0.36         0.09               0.38
 Aluminum                            --                 < 0.2        < 0.2             < 0.2
                                                 165

 Vanadium                         < 0.05              < 0.05           <0.05           < 0.05
                                         Lovibond Color ( L) 0
 Red                               5.0                   4.3             3.2             5.0
 Yellow                            70.0                 70.0           50.0             70.0
                                  Mono & Diglycerides by HPLC (%)
 Diglycerides                      1.68                 2.23            1.25            1.61
 Monoglycerides                    O.Q3                 0.04            0.02            O.Q3
 Free fatty acids (FFA)            1.02                 1.72            0.86            0.83
 Soaps                               0                    0               0
                                Oxidized and Polymerized Triglycerides
 Oxidized Triglycerides ( % )      3.41                 2.41           4.11             1.00
 Polymerized Triglycerides         1.19                 0.45            0.66            0.31
 (%)
 Peroxide Value (meg/kg)           0.75                 0.80            0.60            1.20
 p-Anisidine value                 5.03                 9.03           5.44             20.1
 (dimensionless)
                                   Water and Other Impurities ( % )
 Karl Fisher Moisture              0.8                  0.12            0.07            0.18
 Total polar compounds             5.02                 6.28           4.54             5.23
 Unsaponificable matter            0.92                 1.07            0.72            1.04
 Insoluble impurities             <0.01                <0.01            0.01           < 0.01
                                             Total oil ( % )
 Neutral oil                       98.8                 98.2            99.0            98.9
EXAMPLE 2: General Methods for Biolistic Transforation of Prototheca
[0608]      Seashell Gold Microcarriers 550 nanometers were prepared according to the
protocol from manufacturer. Plasmid (20 µg) was mixed with 50 µl of binding buffer and 60
µl (30 mg) of S550d gold carriers and incubated in ice for 1 min. Precipitation buffer (100 µl)
was added, and the mixture was incubated in ice for another 1 min. After vortexing, DNA-
coated particles were pelleted by spinning at 10,000 rpm in an Eppendorf 5415C microfuge
for 10 seconds. The gold pellet was washed once with 500 µl of cold 100% ethanol, pelleted
by brief spinning in the microfuge, and resuspended with 50 µl of ice-cold ethanol. After a
brief (1-2 sec) sonication, 10 µl of DNA-coated particles were immediately transferred to the
carrier membrane.
[0609]     Prototheca strains were grown in protease medium (2g/L yeast extract, 2.94mM
NaN03, 0.17mM CaC122H20, 0.3mM MgS047H20, 0.4mM K2HP04, 1.28mM
KH2P04, 0.43mM NaCl) with 2% glucose on a gyratory shaker until it reaches a cell density
of 2x10 6cells/ml. The cells were harvested, washed once with sterile distilled water, and
resuspended in 50 µl of medium. 1 x 107 cells were spread in the center third of a non-
selective protease media plate. The cells were bombarded with the PDS-1000/He Biolistic
Particle Delivery system (Bio-Rad). Rupture disks (1350 psi) were used, and the plates are
                                                166

placed 6 cm below the screen/macrocarrier assembly. The cells were allowed to recover at
25°C for 12-24 h. Upon recovery, the cells were scraped from the plates with a rubber
spatula, mixed with 100 µl of medium and spread on plates containing the appropriate
antibiotic selection. After 7-10 days of incubation at 25°C, colonies representing transformed
cells were visible on the plates. Colonies were picked and spotted on selective (either
antibiotic or carbon source) agar plates for a second round of selection.
EXAMPLE 3: Transformation of Chlorella
Vector construction
[0610]    A BamHI-SacII fragment containing the CMV promoter, a hygromycin resistance
cDNA, and a CMV 3' UTR (SEQ ID NO: 152, a subsequence of the pCAMBIA1380 vector,
Cambia, Canberra, Australia) was cloned into the BamHI and SacII sites of pBluescript and is
referred to herein as pHyg.
Biolistic transformation of Chiarella
[0611]    S550d gold carriers from Seashell Technology were prepared according to the
protocol from manufacturer. Linearized pHyg plasmid (20 µg) was mixed with 50 µl of
binding buffer and 60 µl (30 mg) of S550d gold carriers and incubated in ice for 1 min.
Precipitation buffer (100 µl) was added, and the mixture was incubated in ice for another 1
min. After vortexing, DNA-coated particles were pelleted by spinning at 10,000 rpm in an
Eppendorf 5415C microfuge for 10 seconds. The gold pellet was washed once with 500 µl of
cold 100% ethanol, pelleted by brief spinning in the microfuge, and resuspended with 50 µl
of ice-cold ethanol. After a brief (1-2 sec) sonication, 10 µl of DNA-coated particles were
immediately transferred to the carrier membrane.
[0612]    Chiarella protathecaides culture (Univeristy of Texas Culture Collection 250) was
grown in protease medium (2g/L yeast extract, 2.94mM NaN03, 0.17mM CaC122H20,
0.3mM MgS047H20, 0.4mM K2HP04, 1.28mM KH2P04, 0.43mM NaCl) on a gyratory
shaker under continuous light at 75 µmol photons m-2 sec- 1 until it reached a cell density of
2xl0 6cells/ml. The cells were harvested, washed once with sterile distilled water, and
resuspended in 50 µl of medium. 1 x 107 cells were spread in the center third of a non-
selective protease media plate. The cells were bombarded with the PDS-1000/He Biolistic
Particle Delivery system (Bio-Rad). Rupture disks (1100 and 1350 psi) were used, and the
plates were placed 9 and 12 cm below the screen/macrocarrier assembly. The cells were
allowed to recover at 25°C for 12-24 h. Upon recovery, the cells were scraped from the
plates with a rubber spatula, mixed with 100 µl of medium and spread on hygromycin
                                                167

contained plates (200 µg/ml). After 7-10 days of incubation at 25°C, colonies representing
transformed cells were visible on the plates from 1100 and 1350 psi rupture discs and from 9
and 12 cm distances. Colonies were picked and spotted on selective agar plates for a second
round of selection.
Transformation of Chiarella by Electroporation
[0613]    Chiarella protathecaides culture was grown in protease medium on a gyratory
shaker under continuous light at 75 µmol photons m-2 sec- 1 until it reached a cell density of of
2xl0 6cells/ml. The cells were harvested, washed once with sterile distilled water, and
resuspended in a tris-phosphate buffer (20m M Tris-HCl, pH 7.0; 1 mM potassium
phosphate) containing 50 mM sucrose to a density of 4xl0 8cells/ml. About 250 µl cell
suspension (lxl0 8cells) was placed in a disposable electroporation cuvette of 4 mm gap. To
the cell suspension, 5 µg of linearized pHyg plasmid DNA and 200 µg of carrier DNA
(sheared salmon sperm DNA) was added. The electroporation cuvette was then incubated in
a water bath at l6°C for 10 minutes. An electrical pulse (1100 V/cm) was then applied to the
cuvette at a capacitance of 25 µF (no shunt resistor was used for the electroporation) using a
Gene Pulser II (Bio-Rad Labs, Hercules, CA) electroporation apparatus. The cuvette was
then incubated at room temperature for 5 minutes, following which the cell suspension was
transferred to 50 ml of protease media, and shaken on a gyratory shaker for 2 days.
Following recovery, the cells were harvested by centrifugation at low speed, resuspended in
protease media, and plated at low density on plates supplemented with 200 µg/ ml
hygromycin. The plates were incubated under continuous light at 75 µmol photons m-2 sec- 1 .
Transformants appeared as colonies in 1 - 2 weeks. Colonies were picked and spotted on
selective agar plates for a second round of selection.
Geno typing
[0614] A subset of colonies that survived a second round of selection were cultured in small
volume and harvested. Pellets of approximately 5-10 uL volume were resuspended in 50 uL
of lOmM NaEDTA by vortexing and then incubated at l00°C for 10. The tubes were then
vortexed briefly and sonicated for 10 seconds, then centifuged at 12,000 x g for 1 minute. 2
uL of supernatant as template was used in a 50 uL PCR reaction. Primers used for
genotyping were SEQ ID NO: 153 and SEQ ID NO: 154. PCR conditions were as follows:
95°C 5 minx 1 cycle; 95°C 30 sec - 58°C 30 sec - 72°C 1 min 30 sec x 35 cycles; 72°C 10
min x 1 cycle. The expected 992 bp fragment was found in 6 of 10 colonies from the biolistic
method and from a single electroporation colony. A lower sized, nonspecific band was
present in all lanes. To confirm the identity of the amplified 992bp fragment, two biolistic
                                               168

   bands and the electroporation band were excised from the gel and individually sequenced.
   The sequence of all three bands corresponded to the expected 992 bp fragment. (DNA
   ladder: Bionexus® All Purpose Hi-Lo® DNA ladder catalog# BN2050).
   EXAMPLE 4: Algal-derived Promoters and Genes for Use in Microalgae
             A.     5'UTR and Promoter Sequences from Chlorella protothecoides
~  [0615]     A cDNA library was generated from mixotrophically grown Chiarella
~
N  protathecaides (UTEX 250) using standard techniques. Based upon the cDNA sequences,
~
0  primers were designed in certain known housekeeping genes to "walk" upstream of the
N  coding regions using Seegene's DNA Walking kit (Rockville, MD). Sequences isolated
00
~
   include an actin (SEQ ID NO: 155) and elongation factor-la (EFla) (SEQ ID NO: 156)
0
N  promoter/UTR, both of which contain intrans (as shown in the lower case) and exons (upper
   case italicized) and the predicted start site (in bold) and two beta-tubulin promoter/UTR
   elements: Isoform A (SEQ ID NO: 157) and Isoform B (SEQ ID NO: 158).
             B.     Lipid Biosynthesis Enzyme and Plastid Targeting Sequences from C.
                    protothecoides
   [0616]     From the cDNA library described above, three cDNAs encoding proteins functional
   in lipid metabolism in Chiarella protathecaides (UTEX 250) were cloned using the same
   methods as described above. The nucleotide and amino acid sequences for an acyl ACP
   desaturase (SEQ ID NOs: 159 and 160) and two geranyl geranyl diphosphate synthases (SEQ
   ID NOs: 161-164) are included in the Sequence Listing below. Additionally, three cDNAs
   with putative signal sequences targeting to the plastid were also cloned. The nucleotide and
   amino acid sequences for a glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (SEQ ID NOs: 165
   and 166), an oxygen evolving complex protein OEE33 (SEQ ID NOs: 167 and 168) and a
   Clp protease (SEQ ID NOs: 169 and 170) are included in the Sequence Listing below. The
   putative plastid targeting sequence has been underlined in both the nucleotide and amino acid
   sequence. The plastid targeting sequences can be used to target the producs of transgenes to
   the plastid of microbes, such as lipid modification enzymes.
   EXAMPLE 5: Genetic Engineering of Chlorella protothecoides to Express an
   Exogenous Sucrose Invertase
   [0617]     Strains and Media: Chiarella protathecaides (UTEX 250) was obtained from the
   Culture Collection of Alga at the University of Texas (Austin, TX, USA). The stock cultures
   were maintained on modified Protease medium. Modified Protease medium consists of 0.25
                                                    169

g NaN03, 0.09 g K2HP04, 0.175 g KH2P04 0.025 g, 0.025 g CaCh·2H20, 0.075 g
MgS0 4·7H20, and 2 g yeast extract per liter (g/L).
[0618]     Plasmid Construction: To express the secreted form of invertase in Chiarella
protathecaides, a Saccharomyces cerevisiae SUC2 gene was placed under the control of three
different promoters: Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (CMV), Chlorella virus
promoter (NC-lA), and Chlorella HUPl promoter. A yeast SUC2 gene was synthesized to
accommodate codon usage optimized for C. protathecaides and includes a signal sequence
required for directing extracellular secretion of invertase. Each construct was built in
pBluescript KS+, and EcoRI/AscI, AscI/XhoI, and XhoI/BamHI sites were introduced to
each promoter, invertase gene, and CMV 3'UTR, respectively, by PCR ampilication using
specific primers. Purified PCR products were cloned sequentially.
[0619]     Transformation of Chiarella protathecaides: A Chiarella protathecaides culture
was grown in modified Protease medium on a gyratory shaker under continuous light at 7 5
µmol photons m- 2 sec-1 till it reached a cell density of of 6x10 6cells/ml.
[0620]     For biolistic transformation, S550d gold carriers from Seashell Technology were
prepared according to the protocol from the manufacturer. Briefly, a linearized construct (20
µg) by Bsal was mixed with 50 µl of binding buffer and 60 µl (3 mg) of S550d gold carriers
and incubated in ice for 1 min. Precipitation buffer (100 µl) was added, and the mixture was
incubated in ice for another 1 min. After mild vortexing, DNA-coated particles were pelleted
by spinning at 10,000 rpm in an Eppendorf microfuge for 10 seconds. The gold pellet was
washed once with 500 µl of cold 100% ethanol, pelleted by brief spinning in the microfuge,
and resuspended with 50 µl of ice-cold ethanol. After a brief (1-2 sec) sonication, 10 µl of
DNA-coated particles were immediately transferred to the carrier membrane. The cells were
harvested, washed once with sterile distilled water, resuspended in 50 µl of medium (1 x 107
cells), and were spread in the center third of a non-selective Proteous plate. The cells were
bombarded with the PDS-1000/He Biolistic Particle Delivery system (Bio-Rad). Rupture
disks (1100 and 1350 psi) were used, and the plates were placed 9-12 cm below the
screen/macrocarrier assembly. The cells were allowed to recover at 25°C for 12-24 hours.
Upon recovery, the cells were scraped from the plates with a rubber spatula, mixed with 100
µl of medium and spread on modified Protease plates with 1% sucrose. After 7-10 days of
incubation at 25°C in the dark, colonies representing transformed cells were visible on the
plates.
[0621]     For transformation with electroporation, cells were harvested, washed once with
sterile distilled water, and resuspended in a Tris- phosphate buffer (20m M Tris-HCI, pH 7.0;
                                                 170

1 mM potassium phosphate) containing 50 mM sucrose to a density of 4x10 8cells/ml. About
250 µl cell suspension (lx10 8cells) was placed in a disposable electroporation cuvette of 4
mm gap. To the cell suspension, 5 µg of linearized plasmid DNA and 200 µg of carrier DNA
(sheared salmon sperm DNA) were added. The electroporation cuvette was then incubated in
an ice water bath at 16 °C for 10 min. An electrical pulse (1100 V/cm) was then applied to
the cuvette at a capacitance of 25 µF (no shunt resistor was used for the electroporation)
using a Gene Pulser II (Bio-Rad Labs, Hercules, CA) electroporation apparatus. The cuvette
was then incubated at room temperature for 5 minutes, following which the cell suspension
was transferred to 50 ml of modified Protease media, and shaken on a gyratory shaker for 2
days. Following recovery, the cells were harvested at low speed (4000 rpm), resuspended in
modified Protease media, and plated out at low density on modified Protease plates with 1%
sucrose. After 7-10 days of incubation at 25°C in the dark, colonies representing transformed
cells were visible on the plates.
[0622]     Screening Transformants and Genotyping: The colonies were picked from dark
grown-modified Protease plates with 1% sucrose, and approximately the same amount of
cells were transferred to 24 well-plates containing 1 ml of modified Protease liquid media
with 1% sucrose. The cultures were kept in dark and agitated by orbital shaker from Labnet
(Berkshire, UK) at 430 rpm for 5 days.
[0623]     To verify the presence of the invertase gene introduced in Chlorella transformants,
DNA of each transformant was isolated and amplified with a set of gene-specific primers
(CMV construct: forward primer (CAACCACGTCTTCAAAGCAA) (SEQ ID NO: 153)/
reverse primer (TCCGGTGTGTTGTAAGTCCA) (SEQ ID NO: 171), CV constructs:
forward primer (TTGTCGGAATGTCATATCAA) (SEQ ID NO: 172)/ reverse primer
(TCCGGTGTGTTGTAAGTCCA) (SEQ ID NO: 171), and HUPl construct: forward primer
(AACGCCTTTGTACAACTGCA) (SEQ ID NO: 173)/ reverse primer
(TCCGGTGTGTTGTAAGTCCA) (SEQ ID NO: 171)). For quick DNA isolation, a volume
of cells (approximately 5-10 uL in size) were resuspended in 50 uL of 10 mM Na-EDT A.
The cell suspension was incubated at 100°C for 10 min and sonicated for 10 sec. After
centrifugation at 12000g for 1 min, 3 uL of supernatant was used for the PCR reaction. PCR
amplification was performed in the DNA thermal cycler (Perkin-Elmer GeneAmp 9600).
The reaction mixture (50 uL) contained 3 uL extracted DNA, 100 pmol each of the respective
primers described above, 200 uM dNTP, 0.5 units of Taq DNA polymerase (NEB), and Taq
DNA polymerase buffer according to the manufacturer's instructions. Denaturation of DNA
was carried out at 95°C for 5 min for the first cycle, and then for 30 sec. Primer annealing
                                                171

and extension reactions were carried out at 58°C for 30 sec and 72°C for 1 min respectively.
The PCR products were then visualized on 1 % agarose gels stained with ethidium bromide.
[0624]    Growth in Liquid Culture: After five days growth in darkness, the genotype-
positive transformants showed growth on minimal liquid Protease media+ 1% sucrose in
darkness, while wild-type cells showed no growth in the same media in darkness.
EXAMPLE 6: Transformation of algal strains with a secreted invertase derived from S.
cerevisiae
[0625] Secreted Invertase: A gene encoding a secreted sucrose invertase (Gen Bank
Accession no. NP_012104 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae) was synthesized de-novo as a
1599 bp Ase I-Xho fragment that was subsequently sub-cloned into a pUC19 derivative
possessing the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus 35s promoter and 3' UTR as EcoR VAsc I and
Xho/Sac I cassettes, respectively.
[0626]    Growth of Algal Cells: Media used in these experiments was liquid base media
(2g/L yeast extract, 2.94mM NaN0 3 , 0.17mM CaCh2H2 0, 0.3mM MgS0 4 7H2 0, 0.4mM
K2HP0 4 , 1.28mM KH 2P0 4 , 0.43mM NaCl) and solid base media(+ 1.5% agarose)
containing fixed carbon in the form of sucrose or glucose (as designated) at 1% final
concentration. The strains used in this experiment did not grow in the dark on base media in
the absence of an additional fixed carbon source. Species were struck out on plates, and
grown in the dark at 28°C. Single colonies were picked and used to inoculate 500 mL of
liquid base media containing 1 % glucose and allowed to grow in the dark until mid-log
phase, measuring cell counts each day. Each of the following strains had been previously
tested for growth on sucrose in the dark as a sole carbon source and exhibited no growth, and
were thus chosen for transformation with a secreted invertase: (1) Chiarella protathecaides
(UTEX 31); (2) Chiarella minutissima (UTEX 2341); and (3) Chiarella emersanii (CCAP
211/15).
[0627]    Transformation of Algal Cells via Particle Bombardment: Sufficient culture was
centrifuged to give approximately 1-5 x 108 total cells. The resulting pellet was washed with
base media with no added fixed carbon source. Cells were centrifuged again and the pellet
was resuspended in a volume of base media sufficient to give 5 x 107 to 2 x 108 cells/ml.
250-1000 µl of cells were then plated on solid base media supplemented with 1% sucrose and
allowed to dry onto the plate in a sterile hood. Plasmid DNA was precipitated onto gold
particles according to the manufacturer's recommendations (Seashell Technology, La Jolla,
CA). Transformations were carried out using a BioRad PDS He-1000 particle delivery
                                               172

system using 1350 psi rupture disks with the macrocarrier assembly set at 9cm from the
rupture disk holder. Following transformations, plates were incubated in the dark at 28°C.
All strains generated multiple transformant colonies. Control plates transformed with no
invertase insert, but otherwise prepared in an identical fashion, contained no colonies.
[0628]    Analysis of Chiarella protathecaides transformants: Genomic DNA was extracted
from Chiarella protathecaides wild type cells and transformant colonies as follows: Cells
were resuspended in 100 ul extraction buffer (87.5 mM Tris Cl, pH 8.0, 50 mM NaCl, 5 mM
EDTA, pH 8.0, 0.25% SDS) and incubated at 60°C, with occasional mixing via inversion, for
30 minutes. For PCR, samples were diluted 1:100 in 20 mM Tris Cl, pH 8.0.
[0629]    Genotyping was done on genomic DNA extracted from WT, the transformants and
plasmid DNA. The samples were genotyped for the marker gene. Primers 2383 (5'
CTGACCCGACCTATGGGAGCGCTCTTGGC 3') (SEQ ID NO: 174) and 2279 (5'
CTTGACTTCCCTCACCTGGAATTTGTCG 3') (SEQ ID NO: 175) were used in this
genotyping PCR. The PCR profile used was as follows: 94°C denaturation for 5 min; 35
cycles of 94°C -30 sec, 60°C - 30 sec, 72°C -3 min; 72°C -5 min. A band of identical size
was amplified from the positive controls (plasmid) and two transformants of Chiarella
protathecaides (UTEX 31).
[0630]    Analysis of Chiarella minutissima and Chiarella emersanii transformants:
Genomic DNA was extracted from Chiarella WT and the tranformants as follows: Cells
were resuspended in 100 ul extraction buffer (87.5 mM Tris Cl, pH 8.0, 50 mM NaCl, 5 mM
EDTA, pH 8.0, 0.25% SDS) and incubated at 60°C, with occasional mixing via inversion, for
30 minutes. For PCR, samples were diluted 1:100 in 20 mM Tris Cl, pH 8.0. Genotyping
was done on genomic DNA extracted from WT, the transformants and plasmid DNA. The
samples were genotyped for the marker gene. Primers 2336 (5'
GTGGCCATATGGACTTACAA 3') (SEQ ID NO: 176) and 2279
(5' CTTGACTTCCCTCACCTGGAATTTGTCG 3') (SEQ ID NO: 175) were designated
primer set 2 (1215 bp expected product), while primers 2465
(5' CAAGGGCTGGATGAATGACCCCAATGGACTGTGGTACGACG 3') (SEQ ID NO:
177) and 2470 (5' CACCCGTCGTCATGTTCACGGAGCCCAGTGCG 3') (SEQ ID NO:
178) were designated primer set 4 (1442 bp expected product). The PCR profile used was as
follows: 94°C denaturation for 2 min; 29 cycles of 94°C -30 sec, 60°C - 30 sec, 72°C - 1 min,
30 sec; 72°C -5 min. A plasmid control containing the secreted invertase was used as a PCR
control.
[0631]    The sequence of the invertase construct corresponds to SEQ ID NO: 8.
                                               173

[0632]    EXAMPLE 7: Homologous Recombination in Prototheca species
[0633]    Homologous recombination of transgenes has several advantages. First, the
introduction of transgenes without homologous recombination can be unpredictable because
there is no control over the number of copies of the plasmid that gets introduced into the cell.
Also, the introduction of transgenes without homologous recombination can be unstable
because the plasmid may remain episomal and is lost over subsequent cell divisions. Another
advantage of homologous recombination is the ability to "knock-out" gene targets, introduce
epitope tags, switch promoters of endogenous genes and otherwise alter gene targets (e.g., the
introduction of point mutations.
[0634]    Two vectors were constructed using a specific region of the Prototheca moriformis
(UTEX 1435) genome, designated KE858. KE858 is a 1.3 kb, genomic fragment that
encompasses part of the coding region for a protein that shares homology with the transfer
RNA (tRNA) family of proteins. Southern blots have shown that the KE858 sequence is
present in a single copy in the Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435) genome. The first type
of vector that was constructed, designated SZ725 (SEQ ID NO: 179), consisted of the entire
1.3 kb KE858 fragment cloned into a pUC19 vector backbone that also contains the
optimized yeast invertase (suc2) gene. The KE858 fragment contains a unique SnaB 1 site that
does not occur anywhere else in the targeting construct. The second type of vector that was
constructed, designated SZ726 (SEQ ID NO: 180), consisted of the KE858 sequence that had
been disrupted by the insertion of the yeast invertase gene (suc2) at the SnaB 1 site within the
KE858 genomic sequence. The entire DNA fragment containing the KE858 sequences
flanking the yeast invertase gene can be excised from the vector backbone by digestion with
EcoRI, which cuts at either end of the KE858 region.
[0635]    Both vectors were used to direct homologous recombination of the yeast invertase
gene (suc2) into the corresponding KE858 region of the Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435)
genome. The linear DNA ends homologous to the genomic region that was being targeted for
homologous recombination were exposed by digesting the vector construct SZ725 with
SnaB 1 and vector construct SZ726 with EcoRI. The digested vector constructs were then
introduced into Prototheca moriformis cultures using methods described above.
Transformants from each vector construct were then selected using sucrose plates. Ten
independent, clonally pure transformants from each vector transformation were analyzed for
successful recombination of the yeast invertase gene into the desired genomic location (using
Southern blots) and for transgene stability.
                                               174

[0636]     Southern blot analysis of the SZ725 transformants showed that 4 out of the 10
transformants picked for analysis contained the predicted recombinant bands, indicating that
a single crossover event had occurred between the KE858 sequences on the vector and the
KE858 sequences in the genome. In contrast, all ten of the SZ726 transformants contained the
predicted recombinat bands, indicating that double crossover events had occurred between
the EcoRI fragment of pSZ726 carrying KE858 sequence flanking the yeast invertase
trans gene and the corresponding KE858 region of the genome.
[0637]     Sucrose invertase expression and transgene stability were assessed by growing the
transformants for over 15 generations in the absence of selection. The four SZ725
transformants and the ten SZ276 transformants that were positive for the transgene by
Southern blotting were selected and 48 single colonies from each of the transformants were
grown serially: first without selection in glucose containing media and then with selection in
media containing sucrose as the sole carbon source. All ten SZ276 transformants (100%)
retained their ability to grow on sucrose after 15 generations, whereas about 97% of the
SZ725 transformants retained their ability to grow on sucrose after 15 generations.
Transgenes introduced by a double crossover event (SZ726 vector) have extremely high
stability over generation doublings. In contrast, transgenes introduced by a single cross over
event (SZ725 vector) can result in some instability over generation doublings because is
tandem copies of the transgenes were introduced, the repeated homologous regions flanking
the transgenes may recombine and excise the transgenic DNA located between them.
[0638]     These experiments demonstrate the successful use of homologous recombination to
generate Prototheca transformants containing a heterologous sucrose invertase gene that is
stably integrated into the nuclear chromosomes of the organism. The success of the
homologous recombination enables other genomic alterations in Prototheca, including gene
deletions, point mutations and epitope tagging a desired gene product. These experiments
also demonstrate the first documented system for homologous recombination in the nuclear
genome of a eukaryotic microalgae.
[0639]     Use of Homologous Recombination to Knock-out an Endogenous Prototheca
moriformis gene: In a Prototheca moriformis cDNA/genomic screen, like that described
above in Example 4, an endogenous stearoyl ACP desaturase (SAPD) cDNA was identified.
Stearoyl ACP desaturase enzymes are part of the lipid synthesis pathway and they function to
introduce double bonds into the fatty acyl chains. In some cases, it may be advantages to
knock-out or reduce the expression of lipid pathway enzymes in order to alter a fatty acid
profile. A homologous recombination construct was created to assess whether the expression
                                               175

of an endogenous stearoyl ACP desaturase enzyme can be reduced (or knocked out) and if a
corresponding reduction in unsaturated fatty acids can be observed in the lipid profile of the
host cell. An approximately l.5kb coding sequence of a stearoyl ACP desaturase gene from
Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435) was identified and cloned (SEQ ID NO: 181). The
homologous recombination construct was constructed using 0.5kb of the SAPD coding
sequence at the 5'end (5' targeting site), followed by the Chlamydomonas reinhardtii      ~-tublin
promoter driving a codon-optimized yeast sucrose invertase suc2 gene with the Chiarella
vulgaris 3' UTR. The rest (- lkb) of the Prototheca moriformis SAPD coding sequence was
then inserted after the C. vulgaris 3 'UTR to make up the 3' targeting site. The sequence for
this homologous recombination cassette is listed in SEQ ID NO: 182. As shown above, the
success-rate for integration of the homologous recombination cassette into the nuclear
genome can be increased by linearizing the cassette before transforming the microalgae,
leaving exposed ends. The homologous recombination cassette targeting an endogenous
SAPD enzyme in Prototheca moriformis is linearized and then transformed into the host cell
(Prototheca moriformis, UTEX 1435). A successful integration will eliminate the
endogenous SAPD enzyme coding region from the host genome via a double reciprocal
recombination event, while expression of the newly inserted suc2 gene will be regulated by
the C. reinhardtii ~-tubulin promoter. The resulting clones can be screened using
plates/media containing sucrose as the sole carbon source. Clones containing a successful
integration of the homologous recombination cassette will have the ability to grow on sucrose
as the sole carbon source and changes in overall saturation of the fatty acids in the lipid
profile will serve as a secondary confirmation factor. Additionally, Southern blotting assays
using a probe specific for the yeast sucrose invertase suc2 gene and RT-PCR can also
confirm the presence and expression of the invertase gene in positive clones. As an
alternative, the same construct without the  ~-tubulin promoter can be used to excise the
endogenous SAPD enzyme coding region. In this case, the newly inserted yeast sucrose
invertase suc2 gene will be regulated by the endogenous SAPD promoter/5'UTR.
EXAMPLE 8: Expression of various thioesterases in Prototheca
[0640]    Methods and effects of expressing a heterologous thioesterase gene in Prototheca
species have been previously described in PCT Application No. PCT/US2009/66142, hereby
incorporated by reference. The effect of other thioesterase genes/gene products from higher
plants species was further investigated. These thioesterases include thioesterases from the
following higher plants:
                                                176

                                 GenBank
Species                         Accession No.          Specificity     SEQ ID NO:
Cinnamomum camphora              Q39473                C14             SEQ ID NOs: 30-31
Umbellularia californica         Q41635                C10-C12         SEQ ID NOs: 34-35
Cuphea hookeriana               AAC49269               C8-C10          SEQ ID NOs: 32-33
Cuphea palustris                AAC49179               C8              SEQ ID NOs: 36-37
Cuphea lanceolata                CAB60830              ClO             SEQ ID NOs: 38-39
Iris germanica                  AAG43858.1             C14             SEQ ID NOs: 40-41
Myristica fragrans              AAB717291.1            C14             SEQ ID NOs: 42-43
Cuphea palustris                AAC49180               C14             SEQ ID NOs: 44-45
Ulmus americana                 AAB71731               broad           SEQ ID NOs: 46-47
[0641]    In all cases, each of the above thioesterase constructs was transformed in to
Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435) using biolistic particle bombardment. Other
transformation methods including homologous recombination as disclosed in PCT
Application No. PCT/US2009/66142, would also be suitable for heterologous expression of
genes of interest. Transformation of Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435) with each of the
above thioesterase constructs was performed using the methods described in Example 2.
Each of the constructs contained a NeoR gene and selection for positive clones was carried
out using 100 µg/ml G418. All coding regions were codon optimized to reflect the codon bias
inherent in Prototheca moriformis UTEX 1435 (see Table 2) nuclear genes. Both amino acid
sequences and the cDNA sequences for the construct used are listed in the sequence identity
listing. The transit peptide for each of the higher plant thioesterase was replaced with an
algal codon optimized transit peptide from Prototheca moriformis delta 12 fatty acid
desaturase (SEQ ID NO: 48)) or from Chiarella protothecoides stearoyl ACP desaturase
(SEQ ID NO: 49). All thioesterase constructs were driven by the Chlamydomanas reinhardtii
beta-tubulin promoter/5'UTR. Growth and lipid production of selected positive clones were
compared to wildtype (untransformed) Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435). Wildtype and
selected positive clones were grown on 2% glucose G418 plates. Lipid profiles analysis on
selected positive clones for each construct is summarized below (expressed in Area%) in
Table 15.
[0642]    Table 15. Lipid profiles of Prototheca moriformis expressing various heterologous
thioesterases.
           Fatty                                    Thioesterase
           e  I
                                                177

                             ....                               ~                  '3"
                            §
                             Cl        a        IQ
                                                 ...
                                                 lb
                                                               ~        n
                                                                             !"'
                                                                            '1:1
                                                                                   0
                                                                                   0
                                                                                             Ci
                                                                                             ::s
                                                                                             ....        n
                                                                                                              !"'
                                                                                                             '1:1
                                                                                                                    Cl
                                                                                                                    3
                                       3                                     a
                             Q
                             ::s
                                    ~ 'g.   !"'
                                                 3
                                                 Cl
                                                 ::s
                                                       :-       Cl
                                                                ...Cl
                                                               IQ      .co. c:     if5· !"'  lb
                                                                                             0      !"'
                                                                                                         ... Cl
                                                                                                         f:' t:"
                                                                                                                    lb
                                                                                                                    ~- ~
                             r;·
                             Cl
                                       0
                                       i3        r;·
                                                 Cl             ::s
                                                                       0"'
                                                                             ~
                                                                             ;;;·  ::s
                                                                                   Cl
                                                                                             ...Ci
                                                                                             Cl
                                                                                                         0"'
                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                              ;;;·
                                                                                                                    Cl
                                                                                                                    ::s
                                                                                                                    Cl
                                                                "'
            C8:0        0         0        0         0                   3.1          1.8         0         0         .09
           ClO:O      0.02     .07       .02       .01       .09         .56       6.85      1.91         .01       2.85
           C12:0      0.05      14     1.82        .09       .OS         .25           .2     .29         .06         .74
           C14:0      1.65        3    17.3      2.59       5.31       1.45           1.8    1.83       2.87       10.45
           C16:0      28.0   21.4      24.3     26.52      31.08      22.84        23.9     25.55       27.23       33.3
           C18:0       2.9     2.9       2.7     3.11       2.71       3.24           2.8    3.26       3.62        3.47
           C18:1      53.8   45.2      41.3     49.96      39.77      56.62       49.8      55.43       51.04      38.71
           C18:2     10.95      10       9.7    11.86      14.17       8.24           9.7    8.17       10.81       7.38
          C18:3   a.   0.8     .86        .8       .40       .64         .61           .9     .58         .97         .52
            Total    32.62  44.97     46.14     32.32      39.24      31.44       37.35     32.84       33.79       50.9
         saturates
          (area%)
[0643]     The results show that all of the thioesterases expressed impacted fatty acid profiles
to some level. Looking at the "Total saturates" row, the degree of saturation was profoundly
impacted by the expression of several of the thioesterases, including those from U.
californica, C. camphora, and most notably, U. americana. These changes in the percentage
of total saturates were unexpected in that the heterologous expression of thioesterases from
higher plants can apparently impact more than just lipid chain lengths; it can also impact
other attributes of lipid profiles produced by microalgae, namely the degree of saturation of
the fatty acids.
[0644]     Selected clones transformed with C. palustris C8 thioesterase, C. hookeriana
thioesterase, U. californica and C. camphora thioesterase were further grown in varing
amounts of G418 (from 25 mg/L to 50 mg/L) and at varying temperatures (from 22°C to
25°C) and the lipid profile was determined for these clones. Table 16 summarizes the lipid
profile (in Area %) of representative clones containing each thioesterase. A second construct
containing the U. americana thioesterase was constructed and transformed into Prototheca
moriformis (UTEX 1435) using the biolistic methods described above. This second construct
was introduced into the cell via homologous recombination. Methods of homologous
recombination in Prototheca species were described previously in PCT Application No.
PCT/US2009/66142. The homologous DNA that was used was from genomic DNA
sequence of 6S rRNA from Prototheca moriformis UTEX 1435. The selection agent was the
ability to grow on sucrose, using a codon optimized suc2 gene from S. cereveisiae driven by
the C. reinhardtii beta tubulin promoter. The native U. americana transit peptide was
replaced by the Chiarella protothecoides (UTEX 250) stearoyl ACP desaturase transit
                                                          178

peptide. The cDNA of this construct is listed in the Sequence Listing as SEQ ID NO: 50.
Selection of positive clones was performed on 2% sucrose plates and the resulting cultures
for lipid profile determination was also grown on 2 % sucrose containing medium. A
representative lipid profile for this Prototheca moriformis strain containing a homologously
recombined heterologous U. americana thioesterase is summarized in Table 16.
[0645]     Table 16. Lipid profiles of Prototheca moriformis strains containing heterologous
thioesterase genes.
                                 C.pa/ustris     c.         c.         u.
                                      C8     hookeriana camphora   americana
                                                                        2
                         CS:O       12.28       2.37        0           0
                        ClO:O        2.17      12.09       0.02      4.69
                        C12:0        0.34       0.33       3.81       1.02
                        C14:0        1.59       2.08      32.73      16.21
                        C16:0       15.91      20.07      24.03      38.39
                        C18:0        1.59       1.57       1.21       2.83
                        C18:1       50.64      41.80      18.64      27.22
                        C18:2       13.02      16.37      16.57       7.65
                       C18:3  a      1.52       1.75       1.66       0.74
                        Total       33.88      38.51      61.80      63.14
                      saturates
[0646]     As with the clones described above, all transformants containing a heterologous
thioesterase gene showed impacted fatty acid profiles to some level, and the total percent of
saturated fatty acids were also changed, as compared to wildtype (untransformed) Prototheca
moriformis. The Prototheca moriformis containing the U. americana thioesterase introduced
by homologous recombination had the greatest increase in total saturates.
[0647]     Additionally, transgenic clones containing the exogenous C. hookeriana, C.
camphora, U. californica or U. americana thioesterase were assessed for novel lipid profiles.
The C. hookeriana thioesterase containing clone achieved the following lipid profile when
grown in 2% glucose, 25mg/ml G418 at 22°C: 5.10% C8:0; 18.28% ClO:O; 0.41 % C12:0;
1.76% C14:0; 16.31% C16:0; 1.40% C18:0; 40.49% C18:1; and 13.16% C18:2. The C.
camphora thioesterase-containing clone (also containing an exogenous sucrose invertase)
achieved the following lipid profile when grown in 2% sucrose at 25°C: 0.04% ClO:O; 6.01 %
C12:0; 35.98% C14:0; 19.42 C16:0; 1.48% C18:0; 25.44% C18:1; and 9.34% C18:2. The U.
calfornica thioesterase containing clone achieved the following lipid profile when grown in
2% glucose, 25-100 mg/ml G418 at 22°C: 0% C8:0; 0.11 % ClO:O; 34.01 % C12:0; 5.75%
C14:0; 14.02% C16:0; 1.10% C18:0; 28.93% C18:1; and 13.01 % C18:2. The U. americana
thioesterase containing clone achieved the following lipid profile when grown in 2% glucose
                                                179

at 28°C: 1.54% ClO:O; 0.43% C12:0; 7.56% C14:0; 39.45% C16:0; 2.49% C18:0; 38.49%
C18:1; and 7.88% C18:2.
EXAMPLE 9: Transformation of Prototheca with multiple exogenous heterologous
thioesterase genes
[0648]    Microalgae strain Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435) was transformed using the
above disclosed methods to express multiple thioesterases in a single clone. The expression
of multiple thioesterases in a single clone allows the microaglae to produce oils with fatty
acid profiles completely different from those elaborated when any single thioesterase is
expressed alone (as demonstrated in the preceding Examples). Prototheca moriformis
(UTEX 1435) was first transformed with the Cinnamomum camphora thioesterase (a C14
preferring thioesterase) along with a sucrose invertase gene, the suc2 from S. cerevisiae
(selection was the ability to grow on sucrose) using homologous recombination. The DNA
used for this homologous recombination construct is from the KE858 region of Prototheca
moriformis genomic DNA as described in the Section III above. The relevant portion of this
construct is listed in the Sequence Listing as SEQ ID NO: 51. Positive clones were screened
on sucrose-containing plates. A positive clone was then re-transformed with one of three
cassettes, each encoding resistence to the antibiotic G418 as well as an additional
thioesterase: (1) thioesterase gene from Cuphea hookeriana (C8-10 preferring), SEQ ID NO:
52; (2) thioesterase gene from Umbellularia californica (C12 preferring), SEQ ID NO: 53; or
thioesterase from Ulmus americana (broad; C10-C16 preferring), SEQ ID NO: 54. Included
in the Sequence Listing is the sequence of the relevant portion of each construct. Clones
expressing both thioesterase genes were screened on sucrose containing medium with 50
µg/ml G418. Positive clones were selected and growth and lipid profile were assayed. Table
17 summarizes the lipid profile of representative positive clones (expressed in Area %).
[0649]    Table 17. Lipid profiles of Prototheca moriformis transformed with multiple
thioesterases.
           Fatty     UTEX      UTEX 1435 +   UTEX 1435 + C. camphora TE genetic background
           Acid      1435    C. camphora TE
                                                    +                +               +
                                             C. hookeriana    U. californica  U. americana
                                                   TE               TE              TE
           CS:O        0             0            0.19               0             0.06
          ClO:O      0.02          0.02           2.16             0.07            1.87
          C12:0      0.05          0.66           0.53            13.55            1.61
          C14:0      1.65         10.52           7.64              8.0           14.58
          C16:0      28.0         22.56          22.31            19.98           29.53
          C18:0       2.9          6.67           3.23             2.24            2.93
                                                180

                     C18:1     53.8         47.78           48.54          42.55             37.3
                     C18:2     10.95         12.3           11.76          10.13              8.9
                    C18:3  a    0.8          0.93            0.91           0.91             0.76
                     Total     32.62        40.43           36.06          43.84            50.58
                   saturates
                   (Area%)
          [0650]     Additionally, a double thioesterase clone with C. camphora and U. californica
          thioesterases was grown in 2% sucrose containing medium with 50 mg/L G418 at 22°C. The
          fatty acid profile obtained from this strain under these growth conditions was: C8:0 (0);
          ClO:O (0.10); C12:0 (31.03); C14:0 (7.47); C16:0 (15.20); C18:0 (0.90); C18:1 (30.60);
          C18:2 (12.44); and C18:3a (1.38), with a total saturates of 54.7.
,.......i
0         [0651]     Double thioesterase clones with two homologous recombination constructs (one
N
          targeting the 6S region and the other targeting the KE858 region) containing the C. camphora
          thioestease were produced. A positive representative clone had a fatty acid profile of: 0%
          C8:0; 0.06% ClO:O; 5.91 % C12:0; 43.27% C14:0; 19.63% C16:0; 0.87% C18:0; 13.96%
          C18:1; and 13.78% C18:2, with a total saturates at 69.74%. This clone had a C12-C14 level
          at over 49%, which is over 37 times the C12-C14 level in wildtype cells.
          [0652]     The above data shows that multiple thioesterases can be successfully co-expressed
          in microalgae. The co-expression of multiple thioesterases results in altered fatty acid
          profiles that differ significantly not only from the wild type strain, but also from the fatty acid
          profile obtained by the expression of any one of the individual thioesterases. The expression
          of multiple thioesterases with overlapping chain length specificity can result in cumulative
          increases in those specific fatty acids.
          [0653]     The expression of heterologous thioesterases (either alone or in combination) in
          Prototheca moriformis not only alters the fatty acid/lipid profiles in the host strain, but when
          compared to oils currently available from a variety of seed crops (Table 5), these profiles are
          of truly unique oils found in no other currently available system. Not only do the transgenic
          strains show significant differences from the untransformed wildtype strain, they have
          remarkably different profiles from any of the commercial oils that are shown in Table 5. As
          an example, both coconut and palm kernel oils have levels of C8-C10 fatty acids ranging
          from 5.5-17%. Transgenic strain expressing the C. palustris CS-preferring thioesterase or the
          C. hookeriana ClO-preferring thioesterase accumulates anywhere from 3.66 to 8.65%,
          respectively. These C8-C10 fatty acid levels are similar to coconut oil and palm kernel,
          however, the transgenic algal strains lack the significantly higher C12:0 fatty acids, and they
          have extremely high C16:0 (23% in transgenics versus 11-16% in coconut or palm kernel oil,
                                                          181

   respectively and/or 18:1 (50-57% in transgenics versus 8-19% in coconut or palm kernel oil,
   respectively.
   EXAMPLE 10: Identification of endogenous nitrogen-dependent Prototheca promoters
             A.    Identification and characterization of endogenous nitrogen-dependent
                   promoters.
~  [0654]    A cDNA library was generated from Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435) using
~
N  standard techniques. The Prototheca moriformis cells were grown for 48 hours under
~
0  nitrogen replete conditions. Then a 5% innoculum (v/v) was then transferred to low nitrogen
N  and the cells were harvested every 24 hours for seven days. After about 24 hours in culture,
00
~
   the nitrogen supply in the media was completely depleted. The collected samples were
0
N  immediately frozen using dry ice and isopropanol. Total RNA was subsequently isolated
   from the frozen cell pellet samples and a portion from each sample was held in reserve for
   RT-PCR studies. The rest of the total RNA harvested from the samples was subjected to
   poly A selection. Equimolar amounts of poly A selected RNA from each condition was then
   pooled and used to generate a cDNA library in vector pcDNA 3.0 (Invitrogen). Roughly 1200
   clones were randomly picked from the resulting pooled cDNA libray and subjected to
   sequencing on both strands. Approximately 68 different cDNAs were selected from among
   these 1200 sequences and used to design cDNA-specific primers for use in real-time RT-PCR
   studies.
   [0655]    RNA isolated from the cell pellet samples that were held in reserve was used as
   substrate in the real time RT-PCR studies using the cDNA-specific primer sets generated
   above. This reserved RNA was converted into cDNA and used as substrate for RT-PCR for
   each of the 68 gene specific primer sets. Threshold cylcle or CT numbers were used to
   indicate relative transcript abundance for each of the 68 cDNAs within each RNA sample
   collected throughout the time course. cDNAs showing significant increase (greater than three
   fold) between nitrogen replete and nitrogen-depleted conditions were flagged as potential
   genes whose expression was up-regulated by nitrogen depletion. As discussed in the
   specification, nitrogen depletion/limitation is a known inducer of lipogenesis in oleaginous
   microorganisms.
   [0656]    In order to identify putative promoters/5'UTR sequences from the cDNAs whose
   expression was upregulated during nitrogen depletion/limitation, total DNA was isolated
   from Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435) grown under nitrogen replete conditions and were
   then subjected to sequencing using 454 sequencing technology (Roche). cDNAs flagged as
                                                   182

being up-regulated by the RT-PCR results above were compared using BLAST against
assembled contigs arising from the 454 genomic sequencing reads. The 5' ends of cDNAs
were mapped to specific contigs, and where possible, greater than 500bp of 5' flanking DNA
was used to putatively identify promoters/UTRs. The presence of promoters/5'UTR were
subsequently confirmed and cloned using PCR amplification of genomic DNA. Individual
cDNA 5' ends were used to design 3' primers and 5' end of the 454 contig assemblies were
used to design 5' gene-specific primers.
[0657]    As a first screen, one of the putative promoters, the 5'UTR/promoter isolated from
Aat2 (Ammonium transporter, SEQ ID NO: 63), was cloned into the Cinnamomum camphora
C14 thioesterase construct with the Chiarella protothecoides stearoyl ACP desaturase transit
peptide, replacing the C.sorokinana glutamate dehydrogenase promoter. This construct is
listed as SEQ ID NO: 81. To test the putative promoter, the thioesterase construct is
transformed into Prototheca moriformis cells to confirm actual promoter activity by
screening for an increase in C14/C12 fatty acids under low/no nitrogen conditions, using the
methods described above. Similar testing of the putative nitrogen-regulated promoters
isolated from the cDNA/genomic screen can be done using the same methods.
[0658]    Other putative nitrogen-regulated promoters/5'UTRs that were isolated from the
cDNA/genomic screen were:
Promoter/5 'UTR                                        SEQ ID NO.          Fold increased
FatB/A promoter/5'UTR                                  SEQ ID NO: 55               n/a
NRAMP metal transporter promoter/5'UTR                 SEQ ID NO: 56               9.65
Flap Flagellar-associated protein promoter/5'UTR SEQ ID NO: 57                     4.92
SulfRed Sulfite reductase promoter/5'UTR               SEQ ID NO: 58               10.91
SugT Sugar transporter promoter/5'UTR                  SEQ ID NO: 59               17.35
Amt03-Ammonium transporter 03 promoter/5'UTR SEQ ID NO: 60                         10.1
Amt02-Ammonium transporter 02 promoter/5'UTR SEQ ID NO: 61                         10.76
AatOl-Amino acid transporter 01 promoter/5'UTR SEQ ID NO: 62                       6.21
Aat02-Amino acid transporter 02 promoter/5'UTR SEQ ID NO: 63                       6.5
Aat03-Amino acid transporter 03 promoter/5'UTR SEQ ID NO: 64                       7.87
Aat04-Amino acid transporter 04 promoter/5'UTR SEQ ID NO: 65                       10.95
Aat05-Amino acid transporter 05 promoter/5'UTR SEQ ID NO: 66                       6.71
[0659]    Fold increase refers to the fold increase in cDNA abundance after 24 hours of
culture in low nitrogen medium.
                                                183

[0660]    To gain further insight into potential regulation of these putative promoter/5'UTRs,
eight of the sequences were selected for further testing: (1) FatB/A; (2) SulfRed Sulfite
reductase; (3) SugT Sugar transporter; (4) Amt02-Ammonium transporter 02; (5) AatOl-
Amino acid transporter 01; (6) Aat03-Amino acid transporter 03; (7) Aat04-Amino acid
transporter 04; and (8) Aat05-Amino acid transporter 05. Higher resolution transcriptome
analysis utilizing Illumina sequencing reads were carried out on RNA isolated from
Prototheca moriformis cells various time points: TO (seed); 20 hours; 32 hours; 48 hours; 62
hours; and 114 hours post inoculation from seed. The medium at TO (seed) was nitrogen
replete, while at the time points 20 hours and longer, the medium contained little to no
nitrogen. Assembled transcript contigs generated from RNA isolated from each of the time
points were then blasted independently with each of the eight previously identified
transcripts. The results are summarized in Table 18 below.
[0661]    Table 18. Transcriptome expression profiles for eight putative promoters/5'UTRs.
                            cDNA             TS    T20   T32     T48     T62    T114
                   aa trans_Ol     absolute  98     96   321     745     927    1300
                                    relative   1   0.98  3.28    7.61    9.47   13.28
                   aa trans_03     absolute    7    21    51     137     102     109
                                    relative   1   2.95   7.2   19.42   14.47   15.45
                   aa trans_04     absolute    1     6    25      90     131     160
                                   relative    1   5.16 21.29   74.97  109.35  133.31
                   aa trans_OS     absolute  109    88   123     210     214     273
                                   relative    1   0.81  1.13    1.93    1.97    2.51
                ammon trans_02     absolute  683   173   402     991    1413    1397
                                   relative    1   0.25  0.59    1.45    2.07    2.04
                 fatA/B-l_cDNA     absolute  13     36   654     617     544     749
                                   relative    1    2.8 51.57   48.65   42.9     59.1
                  sug trans_Ol     absolute   25    25   106     261     266     251
                                   relative    1     1   4.22    10.4   10.63     10
              sulfite reductase_Ol absolute  634   238   138     145     163     155
                                   relative    1   0.38  0.22    0.22    0.26    0.24
[0662]    From the above-summarized results, several of the transcripts show increased
accumulation over time, although interestingly, the sulfite reductase mRNA shows a distinct
decrease in mRNA accumulation over time.
[0663]    These eight putative promoter/5'UTR regions were cloned upstream of the C.
camphora thioesterase coding region with its native transit peptide taken out and substituted
with the transit peptide from Chiarella protothecoides (UTEX 250) stearoyl ACP desaturase.
Each putative promoter/5'UTR region construct was introduced into Prototheca moriformis
UTEX 1435 via homologous recombination using DNA from the genomic sequence of 6S
rRNA. Also contained within the construct is a suc2 sucrose invertase gene from S. cerevisiae
                                                 184

for selection of positive clones on sucrose containing media/plates. The cDNA sequence for
the relevant portions of the construct for AatOl is listed in the Sequence Listing as SEQ ID
NO: 67. For the other constructs, the same backbone was use, the only variable was the
putative promoter/5'UTR sequence. An additional control transgenic strain was generated in
which the C. reinhardtii beta tubulin promoter was used to drive expression of the C.
camphora thioesterase gene. This promoter have shown to drive constitutive expression of
the gene of interest, and thus provides a useful control against which to measure expression
of the same thioesterase message when driven by the various putative N-regulated
promoters/5'UTRs tested.
[0664]    Once the transgenic clones were generated, three separate experiments were carried
out. The first two experiments assess the potential nitrogen regulatability of all eight putative
promoters by measuring steady state thioesterase mRNA levels via RT-PCR, fatty acid
profiles and ammonia levels in the culture supernatants. Clones were initially grown at 28°C
with agitation (200rpm) in nitrogen rich seed medium (lg/L ammonium nitrate-15mM
nitrogen as ammonia, 4g/L yeast extract) for 24 to 48 hours, at which point 20 OD units
(A7s0) were used to inoculate 50 ml of low nitrogen media (0.2 g/L ammonium sulfate-
3mM nitrogen as ammonia, 0.2 g/L yeast extract). Cells were sampled every 24 hours for 6
days and a sample was also collected right before switching to low nitrogen conditions. A
portion of the cells from each sample was then used for total RNA extraction using Trizol
reagent (according to manufacturer's suggested methods). Ammonia assays revealed that
ammonia levels in the supernatants fell below the limits of detection (- 1OOµM) after 24
hours in low nitrogen medium.
[0665]    For real-time RT-PCR, all RNA levels were normalized to levels of an internal
control RNA expressed in Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435) for each time point. The
internal control RNA, termed cdl89, is a product of the ARG9 gene which encodes N-acetyl
ornithine aminotransferase. Primers sets used for real-time RT-PCR in these experiments
were:
               Gene specific to               Primer sequence 5'-3'              SEQID NO:
          C. camphora TE forward           TACCCCGCCTGGGGCGACAC                 SEQ ID NO: 68
           C. camphora TE reverse          CTTGCTCAGGCGGCGGGTGC                 SEQ ID NO: 69
                cd189 forward              CCGGATCTCGGCCAGGGCTA                 SEQ ID NO: 70
                cd189 reverse              TCGATGTCGTGCACCGTCGC                 SEQ ID NO: 71
                                               185

[0666]    Lipid profiles from each of the transformants from each time point were also
generated and compared to the RT-PCR results. Based on the ammonia levels, RT-PCR
results and changes in C 12-C 14 fatty acid levels, it was concluded that the Amino acid
transporter 01 (Aat-01), Amino acid transporter 04 (Aat-04), and Ammonium transporter 02
(Amt-02) sequences do contain a functional nitrogen-regulatable promoter/5'UTR.
[0667]    From the RT-PCR results, Aat-01 demonstrated the ability to drive steady state C.
camphora thioesterase mRNA levels up to four times higher than control (C. reinhardtii beta
tubulin promoter). The mRNA levels also correlated with nitrogen limitation and a marked
increase in Cl2-Cl4 fatty acid levels. These results demonstrate that the 5'UTR associated
with the Aat-01 promoter is likely more efficient at driving protein synthesis under lipid
biosynthesis than the control C. reinhardtii promoter. Like the Aat-01 promoter, the Aat-04
promoter was able to drive mRNA accumulation up to five times higher than that of the C.
reinhardtii control promoter. However, the Aat-04 promoter construct only produced a
modest ability to impact Cl2-Cl4 fatty acid levels. These data demonstrate that the Aat-04
promoter is clearly regulatable by nitrogen depletion, but the UTR associated with the
promoter likely functions poorly as a translational enhancer. Finally, the Amt-02 promoter
was similar to the Aat-01 promoter, in that it was able to drive mRNA accumulation up to
three times higher than that of the control promoter. The mRNA levels also correlated with
nitrogen limitation and a marked increase in Cl2-Cl4 fatty acid levels. Taken together, all
three of these promoters were demonstrated to be nitrogen-regulated.
          B.    Further characterization of the ammonium transporter 3 (amt03)
                promoter and expression of various thioesterases.
[0668]    As described above, partial cDNAs termed ammonium transporter 02 and 03 (amt02
and amt03) were identified. Along with these two partial cDNAs, a third partial cDNA
termed ammonium transporter 01 (amtOl) was also identified. Alignment of the partial cDNA
and the putative translated amino acid sequences were compared. Results show amtOl to be
more distantly related of the three sequences, while amt02 and amt03 differ by only a single
amino acid.
[0669]    Promoters/5'UTRs were generated initially in silica by blasting the partial cDNA
sequences against Roche 454 genomic DNA assemblies and Illumina transcriptome
assemblies as described above. Transcript contigs showing identity to the cDNA encoding
amtOl, amt02, and amt03 were identified, however, the transcript contigs could not
differentiate between the three mRNAs as the contigs contained sequences shared by all
three. Roche 454 genomic DNA assemblies gave hits to amt02 and amt03 cDNA sequences
                                               186

and contained N-terminal protein sequences. PCR was carried out to clone the 5' flanking
regions. The PCR primers used to validate the clone amt02 and amt03 promoter/UTR were:
Amt03 forward: 5'-GGAGGAATTCGGCCGACAGGACGCGCGTCA-3' (SEQ ID NO: 85)
Amt03 reverse:5'-GGAGACTAGTGGCTGCGACCGGCCTGTG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 86)
Amt02 forward: 5'-GGAGGAATTCTCACCAGCGGACAAAGCACCG-3' (SEQ ID NO:
87)
Amt02 reverse: 5' -GGAGACTAGTGGCTGCGACCGGCCTCTGG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 88)
In both cases, the 5' and 3' primers contained useful restriction sites for the anticipated
cloning into expression vectors to validate the the functionality of these promoter/5'UTR
regions.
[0670]    Pair wise alignments between the DNAs cloned through this combined in silica and
PCR-based method and the original cDNA encoding amt02 (SEQ ID NO: 61) and amt03
(SEQ ID NO: 60) were performed. Results of these alignments showed significant
differences between the original cDNAs and the cloned genomic sequences, indicating that
ammonium transporters likely represent a diverse gene family. Additionally, the
promoter/5'UTR clone based on the combined method for amt03 was different than the
original amt03 sequence, whereas the amt02 sequences were identical. Further experiments to
characterize the amt03 promoter/UTR sequence (SEQ ID NO: 89) was carried out and
described below.
[0671]    The above identified amt03 promoter/UTR sequence (SEQ ID NO: 89) was tested
by cloning this putative promoter/UTR sequence to drive the expression of four different
thioesterases. The expression cassette contained upstream and downstream homologous
recombination sequences to the 6S locus of the genome (SEQ ID NOs: 82 and 84,
respectively). The cassette also contains a S. cerevisiae SUC2 sucrose invertase cDNA to
enable the selection for positive clones on sucrose containing medium. The sucrose invertase
expression was driven by the C. reinhardtii beta tubulin promoter and also contained a C.
vulgaris nitrate reductase 3'UTR. The amt03 promoter/UTR sequence was then cloned
downstream of the sucrose invertase cassette followed by in-frame thioesterase cDNA
sequence from one of four thioesterase genes: (1) C14 thioesterase from C. camphara; (2)
C12 thioesterase from U. califarnica; (3) C10-C16 thioesterase from U. americana; or (4)
ClO thioesterase from C. haakeriana and also contained a C. vulgaris nitrate reductase
3'UTR. The C14 C. camphara thioesterase, C12 U. califarnica thioesterase, and the C10-
C16 U. americana all contained the transit peptide from a Chiarella protathecaides stearoyl
                                               187

ACP desaturase. The ClO C. hookeriana thioesterase contained the transit peptide from a
Prototheca moriformis delta 12 fatty acid desaturase (FAD). In all cases, the sequences were
codon optimized for expression in Prototheca moriformis. The sequences to the foregoing
thioesterase constructs are described in the Sequence Listing:
amt03 promoter/UTR:: C. camphora thioesterase construct                       SEQ ID NO: 90
C. camphora thioesterase construct                                            SEQ ID NO: 91
U. californica thioesterase construct                                         SEQ ID NO: 92
U. americana thioesterase construct                                           SEQ ID NO: 93
C. hookeriana thioesterase construct                                          SEQ ID NO: 94
[0672]    Transgenic lines were generated via biolistic transformation methods as described
above in Example 2 into wild type Prototheca moriformis cells and selection was carried out
on sucrose containing plates/medium. Positive lines were then screened for the degree to
which their fatty acid profiles were altered. Four lines, one resulting from the transformation
with each of the four above-described constructs, were then subjected to additional analysis.
Line 76 expressed the C. camphora Cl4 thioesterase, line 37 expressed the U. californica
C12 thioesterase, line 60 expressed the U. americana Cl0-Cl6 thioesterase, and line 56
expressed the C. hookeriana ClO thioesterase. Each line was grown for 48 hours in medium
containing sucrose as the sole carbon source and samples of cells were removed at 14, 24, 36
and 48 hours (seed culture) for determination of fatty acid profile via direct transesterification
to fatty acid methyl esters and subsequent analysis by GC-FID (described above) and for
isolation of total RNA. At the end of 48 hours, these cells were used to inoculate cultures
with no or low levels of nitrogen (containing sucrose as the sole carbon source) maintained at
either pH 5.0 (citrate buffered, 0.05M final concentration) or pH 7.0 (HEPES buffered, O.lM
final concentration). Culture samples were removed at 12, 24, 72 and 108 hours (lipid
production) for fatty acid profiling and isolation of total RNA. Ammonia assays of these
cultures revealed that ammonia levels fell below the limits of detection (ca. 100 µM) after 24
hours in low nitrogen medium.
[0673]    Real-time RT-PCR assays on the mRNA levels of the thioesterases were performed
on total RNA from each of the time points collected above and all mRNA levels were
normalized to the levels of an internal control RNA (cdl89). Primer sets used in real-time
PCR are shown in Table 19 below:
[0674]    Table 19. Primer sets for real-time PCR.
                                                188

       Gene specific to             Primer sequence 5'-3'               SEQID  NO:
       C. camphora TE forward       TACCCCGCCTGGGGCGACAC                SEQ ID NO: 68
       C. camphora TE reverse       CTTGCTCAGGCGGCGGGTGC                SEQ ID NO: 69
       U. ca/ifornica TE forward    CTGGGCGACGGCTTCGGCAC                SEQ ID NO: 95
       U. ca/ifornica TE reverse    AAGTCGCGGCGCATGCCGTT                SEQ ID NO: 96
       U. americana TE forward      CCCAGCTGCTCACCTGCACC                SEQ ID NO: 97
       U. americana TE reverse      CACCCAAGGCCAACGGCAGCGCCGTG          SEQ ID NO: 98
       C. hookeriana TE forward     TACCCCGCCTGGGGCGACAC                SEQ ID NO: 99
       C. hookeriana TE reverse     AGCTTGGACAGGCGGCGGGT                SEQ ID NO: 100
       cd189 reverse                TCGATGTCGTGCACCGTCGC                SEQ ID NO: 71
       cd189 forward                CCGGATCTCGGCCAGGGCTA                SEQ ID NO: 70
[0675]     The results from the fatty acid profiles at each of the time points in the seed culture
phase showed very little impact from the thioesterases. With the commencement of the lipid
production phase, the fatty acid profiles were significantly impacted, with the increases that
are far more dramatic for the cultures maintained at pH 7 .0 as compared to the cultures at pH
5.0. While the magnitude of the difference between pH 7.0 and 5.0 target fatty acid
accumulation varied with each thioesterase tested, the overall effect was the same: that the
cells grown at pH 5.0 showed significantly lower levels of the target fatty acids accumulated,
but more than compared to control wild type cells.
[0676]     Analysis of the RNA isolated from these same samples correlated very will with the
fatty acid profile data, in that there was a clear impact of culture pH on the steady state
mRNA levels for each of the thioesterases. Taking the fatty acid accumulation data and the
mRNA data together, the pH regulation of thioesterase gene expression driven by the amt03
promoter/UTR was clearly mediated either at the level of transcription, mRNA stability or
both. Additionally, it was observed that the steady state levels of U. californica mRNA were
four logs lower as compared to the steady state levels of C. hookeriana mRNA. This
observation is consistent with the hypothesis that the individual mRNA sequences may play a
role in controlling expression. These data imply that ammonium uptake in Prototheca
moriformis by the amt03 family of transporters is coupled directly to pH.
[0677]     Additional fatty acid profile analysis was performed on twelve lines generated from
the transformation of Prototheca moriformis cells with the construct amt03 promoter/UTR
driving the expression of the U. americana Cl0-Cl6 thioesterase. Line 60, described above,
was a part of the following analysis. Table 20 below shows the lipid profiles of three of the
twelve lines that were analyzed along with the wild type control.
[0678]     Table 20. Fatty acid profiles of transformants containing the U. americana TE
           driven by the amt03 promoter/UTR.
        Area%           C8:0   I C10:0 I C12:0 I C14:0 I C16:0 I C18:0 I C18:1 I C18:2 I Total
                                                    189

                                                                                    Saturates
        wild type     0.00    0.01     0.04   1.27   27.20    3.85   58.70   7.18     32.36
         Line 40      2.38    20.61    3.41  28.41   29.92    1.91   8.57    3.74     86.64
         Line 44      1.50    20.16    4.44  31.88   26.66    1.88    6.95   5.42     86.50
         Line 60      0.98    14.56    3.15  27.49   31.76    2.14   12.23   6.36     80.06
[0679]      As shown in the table above, the levels of total saturates was increased dramatically
over that of wild type with over 2.6 fold in the case of line 40 compared to wildtype (total
saturates from the twelve lines analyzed ranged from about 63% to over 86%). Additionally,
the U. americana thioesterase, when expressed at these levels, dramatically reduces the level
of unsaturates, especially C18:1 and C18:2 (see lines 40 and 44), where in line 44, C18:1
levels are reduced by over 8 fold compared to the wild type. Also, the U. americana
thioesterase (driven by the amt03 promoter) greatly increases the levels of mid-chain fatty
acids. Line 44 shows C10:0-C14:0 levels at greater than 56%, approximately 42 fold higher
than the levels seen in the wildtype strain and C8:0-C14:0 levels at greater than 57%.
Additional strains transformed with a construct of the Amt03 promoter driving the expression
of the U. americana thioesterase had representative lipid profile of: 0.23% C8:0; 9.64%
ClO:O; 2.62% C12:0; 31.52% C14:0; 37.63% C16:0; 5.34% C18:0; 7.05% C18:1; and 5.03%
C18:2, with a total saturates percentage at 86.98%.
[0680]      Additional lipid profiles generated from the transformation of Prototheca
moriformis cells with the construct amt03 promoter/UTR (SEQ ID NO: 89) driving the
expression of the C. hookeriana ClO thioesterase (SEQ ID NO: 94). Positive clones
expressing this construct were selected and grown at pH 7.0 conditions. Representative lipid
profile from a positive clone was: 9.87% C8:0; 23.97% ClO:O; 0.46% C12:0; 1.24% C14:0;
10.24% C16:0; 2.45% C18:0; 42.81 % C18:1; and 7.32% C18:2. This clone had a C8-C10
percentage of 33.84
[0681]      Taken together, the data suggest that the amt03 promoter/UTR, and other promoters
like it, can be used as a tightly regulated promoter, which may be particularly useful for
expressing a potentially toxic compound and strict enforcement of gene expression is
required. The ability of Prototheca moriformis to grow under a wide range (at least pH 5.0 to
7 .0) of pH regimes makes this organism particularly useful in combination with regulatory
elements such as the amt03 promoter/UTR. Additionally, the lipid profile data above
demonstrates the impressive ability of the amt03 promoter/UTR to drive gene expression.
                                                 190

EXAMPLE 11: Altering the Levels of Saturated Fatty Acids in the Microalgae
Prototheca moriformis
[0682]    As part of a genomics screen using a bioinformatics based approach based on
cDNAs, Illumia transcriptome and Roche 454 squencing of genomic DNA from Prototheca
moriformis (UTEX 1435), two specific groups of genes involved in fatty acid desaturation
were identified: stearoyl ACP desaturases (SAD) and delta 12 fatty acid desaturases     (~12
FAD). Stearoyl ACP desaturase enzymes are part of the lipid synthesis pathway and they
function to introduce double bonds into the fatty acyl chains, for example, the synthesis of
C18: 1 fatty acids from C18:0 fatty acids. Delta 12 fatty acid desaturases are also part of the
lipid synthesis pathway and they function to introduce double bonds into already unsaturated
fatty acids, for example, the synthesis of C18:2 fatty acids from C18:1 fatty acids. Southern
blot analysis using probes based on the two classes of fatty acid desaturase genes identified
during the bioinformatics efforts indicated that each class of desaturase genes was likely
comprised of multiple family members. Additionally the genes encoding stearoyl ACP
desaturases fell into two distinct families. Based on these results, three gene disruption
constructs were designed to potentially disrupt multiple gene family members by targeting
more highly conserved coding regions within each family of desaturase enzymes.
[0683]    Three homologous recombination targeting constructs were designed using: (1)
highly conserved portions of the coding sequence of delta 12 fatty acid desaturase (dl2FAD)
family members and (2) two constructs targeting each of the two distinct families of SAD ,
each with conserved regions of the coding sequences from each family. This strategy would
embed a selectable marker gene (the suc2 sucrose invertase cassette from S. cerevisiae
conferring the ability to hydrolyze sucrose) into these highly conserved coding regions
(targeting multiple family members) rather than a classic gene replacement strategy where the
homologous recombination would target flanking regions of the targeted gene.
[0684]    All constructs were introduced into the cells by biolistic transformation using the
methods described above and constructs were linearized before being shot into the cells.
Transformants were selected on sucrose containing plates/media and changes in lipid profile
were assayed using the above-described method. Relevant sequences from each of the three
targeting constructs are listed below.
Description                                                                   SEQ ID NO:
5' sequence from coding region of dl2FAD from targeting construct             SEQ ID  NO:  72
3' sequence from coding region of dl2FAD from targeting construct             SEQ ID  NO:  73
dl2FAD targeting construct cDNA sequence                                      SEQ ID  NO:  74
5' sequence from coding region of SAD2A                                       SEQ ID  NO:  75
                                               191

   3' sequence from coding region of SAD2A                                      SEQ ID     NO: 76
   SAD2A targeting construct cDNA sequence                                      SEQ ID     NO: 77
   5' sequence from coding region os SAD2B                                      SEQ ID     NO: 78
   3' sequence from coding region of SAD2B                                      SEQ ID     NO: 79
   SAD2B targeting construct cDNA sequence                                      SEQ ID     NO: 80
00
0  [0685]     Representative positive clones from transformations with each of the constructs
   were picked and the lipid profiles for these clones were determined (expressed in Area %)
   and summarized in Table 21 below.
   [0686]     Table 21. Lipid profiles for desaturase knockouts.
      Fatty Acid        d12FADKO            SAD2AKO          SAD2B KO          wt UTEX 1435
          C8:0                 0                   0                 0                  0
         ClO:O               0.01                0.01             0.01                0.01
         C12:0               0.03                0.03             0.03                0.03
         C14:0               1.08               0.985             0.795               1.46
         C16:0              24.42              25.335             23.66              29.87
         C18:0               6.85               12.89            19.555              3.345
         C18:1              58.35              47.865            43.115              54.09
         C18:2               7.33               10.27              9.83                9.1
     C18:3 alpha             0.83                0.86                1                0.89
         C20:0               0.48                0.86             1.175              0.325
   [0687]     Each of the construct had a measurable impact on the desired class of fatty acid and
   in all three cases Cl8:0 levels increased markedly, particularly with the two SAD knockouts.
   Further comparison of multiple clones from the SAD knockouts indicated that the SAD2B
   knockout lines had significantly greater reductions in Cl8: 1 fatty acids than the Cl8: 1 fatty
   acid levels observed with the SAD2A knockout lines.
   [0688]     Additional ~12  fatty acid desaturase (FAD) knockouts were generated in a
   Prototheca moriformis background using the methods described above. In order to identify
   potential homologous of ~12FADs, the following primers were used in order to amplify a
   genomic region encoding a putative FAD:
   Primer 15'-TCACTTCATGCCGGCGGTCC-3'                            SEQ ID NO: 101
   Primer 2 5' - GCGCTCCTGCTTGGCTCGAA-3'                         SEQ ID NO: 102
   The sequences resulting from the genomic amplification of Prototheca moriformis genomic
   DNA using the above primers were highly similar, but indicated that multiple genes or alleles
   of ~12FADs exist in Prototheca.
                                                    192

[0689]     Based on this result, two gene disruption constructs were designed that sought to
inactivate one or more    ~12FAD    genes. The strategy would to embed a sucrose invertase
(suc2 from S. cerevisiae) cassette, thus conferring the ability to hydrolyze sucrose as a
selectable marker, into highly conserved coding regions rather than use a classic gene
replacement strategy. The first construct, termed pSZl 124, contained 5' and 3' genomic
targeting sequences flanking a C. reinhardtii    ~-tubulin promoter driving the expression of the
S. cerevisiae suc2 gene and a Chiarella vulgaris nitrate reductase 3 'UTR (S. cerevisiae suc2
cassette). The second construct, termed pSZ1125, contained 5' and 3' genomic targeting
sequences flanking a C. reinhardtii    ~-tubulin promoter driving the expression of the S.
cerevisiae suc2 gene and a Chiarella vulgaris nitrate reductase 3 'UTR. The relevant
sequences of the constructs are listed in the Sequence Listing:
pSZ1124 (FAD2B) 5' genomic targeting sequence                  SEQ ID NO: 103
pSZ1124 (FAD2B) 3' genomic targeting sequence                  SEQ ID NO: 104
S. cerevisiae suc2 cassette                                    SEQ ID NO: 105
pSZl 125 (FAD2C) 5' genomic targeting sequence                 SEQ ID NO: 106
pSZl 125 (FAD2C) 3' genomic targeting sequence                 SEQ ID NO: 107
[0690]    pSZl 124 and pSZl 125 were each introduced into a Protatheca marifarmis
background and positive clones were selected based on the ability to hydrolyze sucrose.
Table 22 summarizes the lipid profiles (in Area%, generated using methods described above)
obtained in two transgenic lines in which pSZl 124 and pSZl 125 targeting vectors were
utilized.
[0691]    Table 22. Lipid profiles of ~12 FAD knockouts
            ClO:O      Cl2:0     Cl4:0     Cl6:0     Cl6:1    Cl8:0     Cl8:1    Cl8:2     Cl8:3a
  parent     0.01       0.03      1.15     26.13      1.32     4.39     57.20     8.13      0.61
 FAD2B       0.02       0.03      0.80     12.84      1.92     0.86     74.74     7.08      0.33
 FAD2C       0.02       0.04      1.42     25.85      1.65     2.44     66.11     1.39      0.22
[0692]     The transgenic containing the FAD2B (pSZl 124) construct gave a very interesting
and unexpected result in lipid profile, in that the C18:2 levels, which would be expected to
decrease, only decreased by about one area%. However, the C18:1 fatty acid levels increased
significantly, almost exclusively at the expense of the C16:0 levels, which decreased
significantly. The transgenic containing the FAD2C (pSZ1125) construct also gave a change
in lipid profile: the levels of C18:2 are reduced significantly along with a corresponding
increase in C18:1 levels.
BeefTallaw Mimetic
                                                 193

[0693]     One positive clone generated from the above SAD2B knockout experiment as
described above was selected to be used as the background for the further introduction of a
C14-preferring fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase gene. The construct introducing the C. camphara
C14-preferring thioesterase contained targeting sequence to the 6S rRNA genomic region
(allowing for targeted integration of the transforming DNA via homologous recombination)
and the expression construct contained the C. reinhardtii     ~-tubulin  promoter driving the
expression of the neaR gene with the Chiarella vulgaris nitrate reductase 3'UTR, followed
by a second C. reinhardtii   ~-tubulin promter driving the expression of a codon-optimized C.
camphara thioesterase with a Chiarella protathecaides stearoyl ACP desaturase transit
peptide with a second Chiarella vulgaris nitrate reductase 3'UTR. The 5' 6S rRNA genomic
donor sequence is listed in SEQ ID NO: 82; the 3' 6S rRNA genomic donor sequence is
listed in SEQ ID NO: 84; and the relevant expression construct for the C. camphara
thioesterase is listed in SEQ ID NO: 83.
[0694]     Transformation was carried out using biolistic methods as decribed above and the
cells were allowed to recover for 24 hours on plates containing 2% sucrose. After this time,
the cells were re-suspended and re-plated on plates containing 2% sucrose and 50 µg/ml
G418 for selection. Nine clones out of the positive clones generated were selected for lipid
production and lipid profile. The nine transgenic clones (with the SAD2B KO and
expressing C. camphara C14-preferring thioesterase) were cultured as described above and
analyzed for lipid profile. The results are summarized below in Table 23. The lipid profile for
tallow is also included in Table 23 below (National Research Council 1976: Fat Content and
Composition of Animal Product).
[0695]     Table 23. Lipid profile of thioesterase transformed clones.
             ClO:O    Cl2:0    Cl4:0   Cl6:0    Cl6:1    Cl8:0     Cl8:1    Cl8:2    Cl8:3    C20
SAD2BKO      0.01     0.33     6.13    24.24    0.19     11.08     42.03    13.45    0.98     0.73
C.camphora
TE clone 1
SAD2BKO      0.01     0.16     3.42    23.80    0.40     9.40      50.62    10.2     0.62     0.70
C.camphora
TE clone 2
SAD2BKO      0.01     0.20     4.21    25.69    0.40     7.79      50.51    9.37     0.66     0.63
C.camphora
TE clone 3
SAD2BKO      0.01     0.21     4.29    23.57    0.31     9.44      50.07    10.07    0.70     0.70
C.camphora
TE clone4
SAD2BKO      0.01     0.18     3.87    24.42    0.32     9.24      49.75    10.17    0.71     0.71
C.camphora
TE clone 5
SAD2BKO      0.01     0.28     5.34    23.78    0.33     9.12      49.12    10.00    0.68     0.70
C.camphora
TE clone 6
SAD2BKO      0.01     0.15     3.09    23.07    0.32     10.08     51.21    10.00    0.66     0.74
C.camphora
                                                194

TE clone 7
SAD2BKO      0.01     0.29     5.33      24.62   0.37    7.02      49.67   10.74    0.69     0.70
C.camphora
TE clone 8
SAD2BKO      0.01     0.12     2.74      25.13   0.30    10.17     50.18   9.42     0.71     0.71
C.camphora
TE clone 9
wt UTEX      0.01     0.02     0.96      23.06   0.79    3.14      61.82   9.06     0.46     0.27
1435
SAD2BKO      0.01     0.03     0.80      23.66   0.13    19.56     43.12   9.83     1.00      1.18
Tallow       0.00     0.00     4.00      26.00   3.00    14.00     41.00   3.00     1.00     0.00
[0696]     As can be seen in Table 23, the lipid profiles of the transgenic lines are quite similar
to the lipid profile of tallow. Taken collectively, the data demonstrate the utility of
combining specific transgenic backgrounds, in this case, a SAD2B knockout with a C14-
preferring thioesterase (from C. camphora), to generate an transgenic algal strain that
produce oil similar to the lipid profile of tallow.
Construct used to down regulate the expression ofB-Ketoacyl Synthase II (KASI!) by targeted
knock-out approach
[0697]     Vector down-regulating KASH gene expression by targeted knock-out approach
was introduced into a classically mutagenized derivative of UTEX 1435, S 1331. The
Saccharomyces cerevisiae invertase gene was utilized as a selectable marker, conferring the
ability to grow on sucrose. The invertase expression cassette under control of C. reinhardtii
B-tubulin promoter was inserted in the middle of the 315bp long KASH genomic region to
permit targeted integration (pSZ1503).
[0698]     Relevant restriction sites in pSZ1503 are indicated in lowercase, bold and
underlining and are 5 '-3' BspQ l, Kpn I, Asel, Xho I, Sac I, BspQ I, respectively. BspQI sites
delimit the 5' and 3' ends of the transforming DNA. Bold, lowercase sequences represent
genomic DNA from S 1331 that permit targeted integration at KASH locus via homologous
recombination. Proceeding in the 5' to 3' direction, the C. reinhardtii B-tubulin promoter
driving the expression of the yeast sucrose invertase gene (conferring the ability of S 1331 to
metabolize sucrose) is indicated by boxed text. The initiator ATG and terminator TGA for
invertase are indicated by uppercase, bold italics while the coding region is indicated in
lowercase italics. The Chiarella vulgaris nitrate reductase 3' UTR is indicated by lowercase
underlined text.
[0699]
ctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagacggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcg
accccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgc
                                                 195

aaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactc
cgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaac c c ccATGctgctgcaggccttcctgttcctgctgg
ccggcttcgccgccaagatcagcgcctccatgacgaacgagacgtccgaccgccccctggtgcacttcacccccaacaagggct
ggatgaacgaccccaacggcctgtggtacgacgagaaggacgccaagtggcacctgtacttccagtacaacccgaacgacac
cgtctgggggacgcccttgttctggggccacgccacgtccgacgacctgaccaactgggaggaccagcccatcgccatcgcccc
gaagcgcaacgactccggcgccttctccggctccatggtggtggactacaacaacacctccggcttcttcaacgacaccatcgac
ccgcgccagcgctgcgtggccatctggacctacaacaccccggagtccgaggagcagtacatctcctacagcctggacggcgg
ctacaccttcaccgagtaccagaagaaccccgtgctggccgccaactccacccagttccgcgacccgaaggtcttctggtacgag
ccctcccagaagtggatcatgaccgcggccaagtcccaggactacaagatcgagatctactcctccgacgacctgaagtcctgg
aagctggagtccgcgttcgccaacgagggcttcctcggctaccagtacgagtgccccggcctgatcgaggtccccaccgagcag
gaccccagcaagtcctactgggtgatgttcatctccatcaaccccggcgccccggccggcggctccttcaaccagtacttcgtcgg
cagcttcaacggcacccacttcgaggccttcgacaaccagtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaaggactactacgccctgcagacc
ttcttcaacaccgacccgacctacgggagcgccctgggcatcgcgtgggcctccaactgggagtactccgccttcgtgcccacca
acccctggcgctcctccatgtccctcgtgcgcaagttctccctcaacaccgagtaccaggccaacccggagacggagctgatcaa
cctgaaggccgagccgatcctgaacatcagcaacgccggcccctggagccggttcgccaccaacaccacgttgacgaaggcc
aacagctacaacgtcgacctgtccaacagcaccggcaccctggagttcgagctggtgtacgccgtcaacaccacccagacgatc
tccaagtccgtgttcgcggacctctccctctggttcaagggcctggaggaccccgaggagtacctccgcatgggcttcgaggtgtc
cgcgtcctccttcttcctggaccgcgggaacagcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggagaacccctacttcaccaaccgcatgagcgtg
aacaaccagcccttcaagagcgagaacgacctgtcctactacaaggtgtacggcttgctggaccagaacatcctggagctgtact
tcaacgacggcgacgtcgtgtccaccaacacctacttcatgaccaccgggaacgccctgggctccgtgaacatgacgacgggg
gtggacaacctgttctacatcgacaagttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTGAcaattggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgac
acactctggac gctggtc gtgtgatggactgttgcc gccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgcc gcttttatcaaacagcct
cagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgttt
catatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagc
cttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatggga
acacaaatggaggatcgtagagctcatcttccgaaagtacgacgagtgagcgagctgattctctttgagcggggtcgggtggttc
ggggagagtgcgcggaaaggcgcagagacgtgcggccggccgtgtccctccgtcttcccctggttggtgctatagtaacctgc
ctgtgtcgcgtgcgcgtcgggaagagc (SEQ ID NO: 149)
[0700]     The cDNAs of the KAS II allele 1 and allele 2 are identified in SEQ ID NOs: 279
and 280, respectively. The amino acid sequences of alleles 1 and 2 are identified in SEQ ID
NOs: 281 and 282, respectively.
[0701]     To determine the impact of KASH inactivation on lipid composition, pSZ1503
vector DNA was transformed into S1331 to generate a targeted KASH knock-out phenotype.
Initial single clones were isolated and grown under standard lipid production conditions at
pH5.0. The resulting profiles of the best representative clone and the wild-type cells are
shown below in Table 31
[0702]     Table 31. Fatty acid profiles in S 1331 and a derivative transgenic line transformed
with pSZ1503 DNA.
 Sample ID        C10:0     C12:0      C14:0      C16:0     C16:1      C18:0     C18:1      C18:2 C18:3 a
 1331·5            0.01      0.03       0.96      24.28      0.64       3.94      62.69      6.21    0.49
 0698·2            0.01      0.01       0.83      38.36      1.38       2.21      48.31      7.60    0.55
                                                196

EXAMPLE 12: Engineering Prototheca with Alternative Selectable Markers
          A.    Expression of a secretable a-galactosidase in Prototheca moriformis
[0703]    Methods and effects of expressing a heterologous sucrose invertase gene in
Protatheca species have been previously described in PCT Application No.
PCT/US2009/66142, hereby incorporated by reference. The expression of other heterologous
polysaccharide degrading enzymes was examined in this Example. The ability to grow on
melibiose (a-D-gal-glu) by Protatheca marifarmis UTEX 1435 with one of the following
exogenous gene encoding a a-galactosidase was tested: MELI gene from Saccharomyces
carlbergensis (amino acid sequence corresponding to NCBI accession number P04824 (SEQ
ID NO: 108)), Ag IC gene from Aspergillus niger (amino acid sequence corresponding to
NCBI accession number Q9UUZ4 (SEQ ID NO: 116)), and the a-galactosidase from the
higher plant Cyamapsis tetragababala (Guar bean) (amino acid sequence corresponding to
NCBI accession number P14749 (SEQ ID NO: 120). The above accession numbers and
corresponding amino acid sequences are hereby incorporated by reference. In all cases, genes
were optimized according to the preferred codon usage in Protatheca marifarmis. The
relevant portions of the expression cassette are listed below along with the Sequence Listing
numbers. All expression cassettes used the 5' and 3' Clp homologous recombination
targeting sequences for stable genomic integration, the Chlamydamanas reinhardtii TUB2
promoter/5'UTR, and the Chiarella vulgaris nitrate reductase 3'UTR.
          S. carlbergensis MELI amino acid sequence                          SEQ ID NO: 108
          S. carlbergensis MELI amino acid sequence signal peptide           SEQ ID NO: 109
          S. carlbergensis MELI transformation cassette                      SEQ ID NO: 110
          S. carlbergensis MELI sequence (codon optimized)                   SEQ ID NO: 111
          5' Clp homologous recombination targeting sequence                 SEQ ID NO: 112
          3' Clp homologous recombination targeting sequence                 SEQ ID NO: 113
          Chlamydamanas reinhardtii TUB2 promoter/5'UTR                      SEQ ID NO: 114
          Chiarella vulgaris nitrate reductase 3 'UTR                        SEQ ID NO: 115
          A. niger AlgC amino acid sequence                                  SEQ ID NO: 116
          A. niger AlgC amino acid sequence signal peptide                   SEQ ID NO: 117
          A. niger AlgC sequence (codon optimized)                           SEQ ID NO: 118
          A. niger AlgC transformation cassette                              SEQ ID NO: 119
          C. tetraganabala a-galactosidase amino acid sequence               SEQ ID NO: 120
          C. tetraganabala a-galactosidase sequence (codon optimized)        SEQ ID NO: 121
          C. tetraganabala a-galactosidase transformation cassette           SEQ ID NO: 122
                                               197

[0704]    Prototheca moriformis cells were transformed with each of the three expression
cassettes containing S. carlbergensis MELI, A. niger AlgC, or C. tetragonobola a-
galactosidase gene using the biolistic transformation methods as described in Example 2
above. Positive clones were screened using plates containing 2% melibiose as the sole carbon
source. No colonies appeared on the plates for the C. tetragonobola expression cassette
transformants. Positive clones were picked from the plates containing the S. carlbergensis
MELI transformants and the A. niger AlgC transformants. Integration of the transforming
DNA was confirmed using PCR with primers targeting a portion of the C. vulgaris 3'UTR
and the 3' Clp homologous recombination targeting sequence.
          5' primer C.vulgaris 3'UTR:downstream Clp sequence (SEQ ID NO: 123)
          ACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGA
          3' primer C.vulgaris 3'UTR:downstream Clp sequence (SEQ ID NO: 124)
          TCCAGGTCCTTTTCGCACT
[0705]    As a negative control, genomic DNA from untransformed Prototheca moriformis
cells were also amplified with the primer set. No products were amplified from genomic
DNA from the wild type cells.
[0706]    Several positive clones from each of the S. carlbergensis MELI transformants and
the A. niger AlgC transformants (as confirmed by PCR) were tested for their ability to grow
on melibiose as the sole carbon source in liquid media. These selected clones were grown for
3 days in conditions and base medium described in Example 1 above with melibiose as the
sole carbon source. All clones containing either a-galactosidase-encoding genes grew
robustly during this time, while the untransformed wild type strain and Prototheca
moriformis expressing a Saccharomyces cerevisiae SUC2 sucrose invertase both grew poorly
on the melibiose media. These results suggest that the a-galactosidase encoding genes may be
used as a selectable marker for transformation. Also, these data indicate that the native signal
peptides present in the S. carlbergensis MELI (SEQ ID NO: 109) or A. niger AlgC (SEQ ID
NO: 117) are useful for targeting proteins to the periplasm in Prototheca moriformis cells.
          B.    THIC genes complements thiamine auxotrophy in Prototheca
[0707]    Thiamine prototrophy in Prototheca moriformis cells was examined using
expression of exogenous THIC genes. Thiamine biosynthesis in plants and algae is typically
carried out in the plastid, hence most nuclear encoded proteins involved in its production will
need to be efficiently targeted to the plastid. DNA sequencing and transcriptome sequencing
of Prototheca moriformis cells revealed that all of the genes encoding the thiamine
biosynthetic enzymes were present in the genome, with the exception of THIC. To dissect
                                                198

the lesion responsible for thiamine auxotrophy at the biochemical level, the growth of
Protatheca marifarmis cells under five different regimes were examined: (1) in the presence
of 2 µM thiamine hydrochloride; (2) without thiamine; (3) without thiamine, but with 2 µM
hydroxyethyl thiazole (THZ); (4) without thiamine, but with 2 µM 2-methyl-4-amino-5-
(aminomethyl)pyrimidine (PYR); and (5) without thiamine, but with 2 µM THZ and 2µM
PYR. Results from the growth experiments under these 5 different conditions indicated that
Protatheca marifarmis cells are capable of de novo synthesis, but can only produce thiamine
pyrophosphate (TPP) if the PYR precursor is provided. This result is consistent with the
hypothesis that the thiamine auxotrophy of Protatheca marifarmis is due to the inability to
synthesize hydroxymethylpyrimidine phosphate (HMP-P) from aminoimidazole
ribonucleotide, which is the conversion catalyze by THIC enzyme.
[0708]    Protatheca marifarmis cells were transformed using the biolistic transformation
methods described above in Example 2, expressing the Caccamyxa C-169 THIC (amino acid
sequence corresponding to JGI Protein ID 30481, and hereby incorporated by reference) and
a S. cerevisiae SUC2 sucrose invertase as the selective marker. This expression construct
contained the native transit peptide sequence from Caccamyxa C-169 THIC, upstream and
downstream homologous recombination targeting sequences to the 6S region of genomic
DNA, a C. reinhardtii TUB2 promoter/5'UTR region (SEQ ID NO: 104), and a Chiarella
vulgaris nitrate reductase 3'UTR (SEQ ID NO: 115). The S. cerevisiae SUC2 expression
was also driven by a C. reinhardtii TUB2 promoter/5'UTR region (SEQ ID NO: 114) and
contained a Chiarella vulgaris nitrate reductase 3'UTR (SEQ ID NO: 115). Genes were
optimized according to the preferred codon usage in Protatheca marifarmis. The relevant
expression cassette sequences are listed in the Sequence Listing and detailed below:
Caccamyxa C-169 THIC amino acid sequence                                    SEQ ID NO: 125
Caccamyxa C-169 THIC amino acid sequence native transit peptide             SEQ ID NO: 126
Caccamyxa C-169 THIC transformation cassette                                SEQ ID NO: 127
Caccamyxa C-169 THIC sequence (codon optimized)                             SEQ ID NO: 128
S. cerevisiae SUC2 sequence (codon optimized)                               SEQ ID NO: 129
5' 6S homologous recombination targeting sequence                           SEQ ID NO: 82
3' 6S homologous recombination targeting sequence                           SEQ ID NO: 84
Selection of positive clones were performed on plates without thiamine and containing
sucrose as the sole carbon source. Positive clones were confirmed using PCR with a 5'
primer that binds within the Caccamyxa C-169 THIC gene and a 3' primer that anneals
                                               199

downsteam of the transforming DNA in the 6S locus. PCR confirmed positive clones were
also confirmed using Southern blot assays.
[0709]     To observe the thiamine auxotrophy of wildtype Protatheca marifarmis cells, it was
necessary to first deplete cells of internal thiamine reserves. To test growth in medium
without thiamine, cells were first grown to stationary phase in medium containing 2 µM
thiamine and then the cells were diluted to an optical density at 750 nm (OD750) of
approximately 0.05 in medium without thiamine. The diluted cells were then grown once
more to stationary phase in medium without thiamine (about 2-3 days). These thiamine-
depleted cells were used to inoculate cultures for growth studies in medium without thiamine.
Wildtype cells were grown in medium with glucose as the carbon source (with or without
thiamine) and positive clones with the native transit peptide Caccamyxa C-169 THIC
construct were grown in medium with sucrose as the sole carbon source. Growth was
measured by monitoring the absorbance at 7 50nm. Results of the growth experiments
showed substantial greater growth in thiamine-free medium of strains expressing the
transgene compared to wildtype cells in thiamine-free medium. However, the transformants
failed to achieve the growth rate and cell densities of wildtype cells in thiamine-containing
media. There was also a strong correlation between the amount of growth in the transformant
clones in thiamine-free medium and the copy number of the integrated Caccamyxa enzyme
(i.e., the more copy numbers of the transgene, the better the growth of the cells in thiamine-
free medium).
[0710]     Additional transformants were generated using expression constructs containing the
Caccamyxa THIC , the Arabidapsis thaliana THIC gene, and the Synechacystis sp. PCC 6803
thiC gene. In the case of the Caccamyxa and the A. thaliana THIC gene, the native transit
peptide sequence was replaced with the transit peptide sequence from a Chiarella
protathecaides stearoyl-ACP desaturase (SAD) gene. Synechacystis sp. is a cyanobacterium
and the thiC protein does not contain a native transit peptide sequence. In the Synechacystis
sp thiC construct, the transit peptide sequence from a Chiarella protathecaides SAD gene
was fused to the N-terminus of the Synechacystis sp. thiC. In all cases, the sequences were
codon optimized for expression in Protatheca marifarmis. All three of the foregoing
constructs contained a upstream and downstream homologous recombination targeting
sequence to the 6S region of the genome (SEQ ID NOs: 82 and 84), a Chiarella
protathecaides actin promoter/5' UTR, and a Chiarella protathecaides EFJA gene 3'UTR.
All three constructs contained a neoR gene driven by the C. reinhardtii TUB2
promoter/5'UTR (SEQ ID NO: 114) and contained the C. vulgaris 3'UTR (SEQ ID NO:
                                                 200

115), conferring the selection by G418. The amino acid sequence of the A. thaliana THIC
corresponded to NCBI accession number NP_180524 and the amino acid sequence of the
Synechocystis sp. thiC corresponded to NCBI accession number NP_442586, both sequences
hereby incorporated by reference. The relevant expression cassette sequences are listed in the
Sequence Listing and detailed below:
Coccomyxa THIC expression construct with C. protothecoides
 transit peptide                                                           SEQ ID NO: 130
Coccomyxa THIC with C. protothecoides transit peptide                      SEQ ID NO: 131
C. protothecoides actin promoter/5' UTR                                    SEQ ID NO: 132
C. protothecoides EFJA 3'UTR                                               SEQ ID NO: 133
A. thaliana THIC expression construct                                      SEQ ID NO: 134
A. thaliana THIC with C. protothecoides transit peptide                    SEQ ID NO: 135
A. thaliana THIC amino acid sequence with native transit peptide           SEQ ID NO: 136
Synechocystis sp. thiC expression construct                                SEQ ID NO: 137
Synechocystis sp. thiC with C. protothecoides transit peptide              SEQ ID NO: 138
Synechocystis sp. thiC amino acid sequence                                 SEQ ID NO: 139
neoR gene                                                                  SEQ ID NO: 140
[0711]    Positive clones were screened on plates containing G418 and several clones from
each transformation were picked for verification by PCR. Integration of the transforming
DNA constructs containing the Coccomyxa C-169 (with C. protothecoides transit peptide), A.
thaliana and Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 THIC genes, respectively into the 6S locus of the
genome was confirmed using PCR analysis with the following primers:
          5' THIC Coccomyxa confirmation primer sequence (SEQ ID NO: 141)
          ACGTCGCGACCCATGCTTCC
          3' THIC confirmation primer sequence (SEQ ID NO: 142)
          GGGTGATCGCCTACAAGA
          5' THIC A. thaliana confirmation primer sequence (SEQ ID NO: 143)
          GCGTCATCGCCTACAAGA
          5' thiC Synechocystis sp. confirmation primer sequence (SEQ ID NO: 144)
          CGATGCTGTGCTACGTGA
[0712]    Growth experiments on thiamine depleted cells (as described above) were
performed using selected confirmed positive clones from transformants of each of the
different constructs in medium containing G418. All transformants were able to grow (with
                                              201

varying degrees of robustness) in thiamine-free medium. Comparison of the growth of the
transformants in thiamine-free medium to wild type cells on thiamine-containing medium
showed the following ranking with respect to their ability to support growth in thiamine-free
medium: (1) A. thaliana transformants; (2) Coccomyxa C-169 (with C. protothecoides transit
peptide) transformants; and (3) Synechocystis sp. transformants. These results suggest that
while a single copy of A. thaliana THIC was able to complement thiamine auxotrophy in
Prototheca moriformis cells, multiple copies of Coccomyxa C-169 (with either the native
transit peptide sequence or a transit peptide sequence from C. protothecoides) and
Synechocystis sp. THIC was required to enable rapid growth in the absence of thiamine.
Given the variability in results of the different THIC from the different sources, the ability of
any particular THIC gene to fully complement the lesion present in Prototheca species is not
predictable.
[0713]    An alignment of the three THIC amino acid sequences was performed. While there
exist significant sequence conservation between thiC from Synechocystis sp. compared to the
THICs from Coccomyxa and A. thaliana (41 % identity at the amino acid level), the
cyanobacterial protein is missing a domain at the N-terminus that is well-conserved in the
algal and plant proteins. Despite the missing domain (and presumably resulting in structural
differences), the construct expressing the Synechocystis sp. thiC was able to at least partially
restore thiamine prototrophic in Prototheca moriformis cells.
EXAMPLE 13: Fuel Production
          A.    Extraction of oil from microalgae using an expeller press and a press aid
[0714]    Microalgal biomass containing 38% oil by DCW was dried using a drum dryer
resulting in resulting moisture content of 5-5.5%. The biomass was fed into a French L250
press. 30.4 kg (67 lbs.) of biomass was fed through the press and no oil was recovered. The
same dried microbial biomass combined with varying percentage of switchgrass as a press
aid was fed through the press. The combination of dried microbial biomass and 20% w/w
switchgrass yielded the best overall percentage oil recovery. The pressed cakes were then
subjected to hexane extraction and the final yield for the 20% switchgrass condition was
61.6% of the total available oil (calculated by weight). Biomass with above 50% oil dry cell
weight did not require the use of a pressing aid such as switchgrass in order to liberate oil.
Other methods of extraction of oil from microalgae using an expeller press are described in
PCT Application No. PCT/US2010/31108 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
          B.    Production of biodiesel from Prototheca oil
                                                202

[0715]    Degummed oil from Prototheca moriformis UTEX 1435, produced according to the
methods described above, was subjected to transesterification to produce fatty acid methyl
esters. Results are shown in Table 24 below.
[0716]    The lipid profile of the oil was:
ClO:O   0.02
Cl2:0   0.06
Cl4:0   1.81
Cl4.l   0.07
Cl6:0   24.53
Cl6:1   1.22
Cl8:0   2.34
Cl8:1   59.21
Cl8:2   8.91
Cl8:3   0.28
C20:0   0.23
C20:1   0.10
C20:1   0.08
C21:0   0.02
C22:0   0.06
C24:0   0.10
[0717]    Table 24. Biodiesel profile from Prototheca moriformis triglyceride oil.
 Method                                     Test                           Result       Units
 ASTM                Cold Soak Filterability of    Filtration Time       120          sec
 D6751 Al             Biodiesel Blend Fuels        Volume Filtered       300          ml
                                                   Procedure Used        A
                   Pensky-Martens Closed Cup                                          oc
 ASTMD93                                           Corrected Flash       165.0
                             Flash Point
                                                   Point
 ASTM            Water and Sediment in Middle Sediment and Water         0.000        Vol%
 D2709            Distillate Fuels (Centrifuge
                  Method)
 EN 14538         Determination of Ca and Mg       Sum of ( Ca and       <l           mg/kg
                  Content by ICP OES               Mg)
 EN 14538         Determination of Ca and Mg       Sum of (Na and K)     <l           mg/kg
                  Content by ICP OES
 ASTMD445         Kinematic I Dynamic              Kinematic Viscosity   4.873        mm2/s
                  Viscosity                        @ 104 °F/ 40 °C
 ASTM D874        Sulfated Ash from Lubricating Sulfated Ash             < 0.005      Wt%
                  Oils and Additives
 ASTM             Determination of Total Sulfur Sulfur, mg /kg           1.7          mg/kg
 D5453            in Light Hydrocarbons, Spark
                  Ignition Engine Fuel, Diesel
                  Engine Fuel, and Engine Oil
                 by Ultraviolet Fluorescence.
 ASTMD130         Corrosion - Copper Strip         Biodiesel-Cu          la
                                                   Corrosion 50°C
                                                   (122°F)/3 hr
                                               203

ASTM     Cloud Point                      Cloud Point         6        oc
D2500
ASTM     Micro Carbon Residue             Average Micro       <0.10    Wt%
D4530                                     Method Carbon
                                          Residue
           Acid Number of Petroleum       Procedure Used      A
ASTMD664   Products by Potentiometric     Acid Number         0.20     mg
                     Titration                                         KOH/g
         Determination of Free and        Free Glycerin       < 0.005  Wt%
ASTM     Total Glycerin in B-100          Total Glycerin      0.123    Wt%
D6584    Biodiesel Methyl Esters By
         Gas Chromatography
ASTM     Additive Elements in             Phosphorus          0.000200 Wt%
D4951    Lubricating Oils by ICP-AES
                                          IBP                 248      oc
                                          AET@ 5%             336      oc
                                          Recovery
                                          AET@ 10%            338      oc
                                          Recovery
                                          AET@ 20%            339      oc
                                          Recovery
                                          AET@ 30%            340      oc
                                          Recovery
                                          AET@ 40%            342      oc
                                          Recovery
                                          AET@ 50%            344      oc
                                          Recovery
                                          AET@ 60%            345      oc
ASTM        Distillation of Petroleum
                                          Recovery
D1160    Products at Reduced Pressure                                  oc
                                          AET@ 70%            347
                                          Recovery
                                          AET@ 80%            349      oc
                                          Recovery
                                          AET@ 90%            351      oc
                                          Recovery
                                          AET@ 95%            353      oc
                                          Recovery
                                          FBP                 362      oc
                                          % Recovered         98.5     %
                                          % Loss              1.5      %
                                          % Residue           0.0      %
                                          Cold Trap Volume    0.0      ml
                                          IBP                 248      oc
         Determination of Oxidation       Oxidation Stability > 12     hr
EN 14112 Stability (Accelerated           Operating Temp      110      oc
         Oxidation Test)                  (usually 110 deg C)
ASTM     Density of Liquids by Digital    API Gravity@ 60°F   29.5     0
                                                                         API
D4052    Density Meter
                                      204

   ASTMD             Determination of Ignition         Derived Cetane           > 61.0
    6890             Delay (ID) and Derived            Number (DCN)
                     Cetane Number (DCN)
  [0718]     The lipid profile of the biodiesel was highly similar to the lipid profile of the
~ feedstock oil. Other oils provided by the methods and compositions of the invention can be
  subjected to transesterification to yield biodiesel with lipid profiles including (a) at least 4%
  C8-C14; (b) at least 0.3% C8; (c) at least 2% ClO; (d) at least 2% C12; and (3) at least 30%
  C8-C14.
  [0719]     The Cold Soak Filterability by the ASTM D6751 Al method of the biodiesel
  produced was 120 seconds for a volume of 300ml. This test involves filtration of 300 ml of
  B 100, chilled to 40°F for 16 hours, allowed to warm to room temp, and filtered under
  vacuum using 0. 7 micron glass fiber filter with stainless steel support. Oils of the invention
  can be transesterified to generate biodiesel with a cold soak time of less than 120 seconds,
  less than 100 seconds, and less than 90 seconds.
             C.    Production of Renewable Diesel
  [0720]     Degummed oil from Prototheca moriformis UTEX 1435, produced according to the
  methods described above and having the same lipid profile as the oil used to make biodiesel
  in this Example, above, was subjected to transesterification to produce renewable diesel.
  [0721]     The oil was first hydrotreated to remove oxygen and the glycerol backbone, yielding
  n-paraffins. The n-parrafins were then subjected to cracking and isomerization. A
  chromatogram of the material is shown in Figure 1. The material was then subjected to cold
  filtration, which removed about 5% of the C18 material. Following the cold filtration the total
  volume material was cut to flash point and evaluated for flash point, ASTM D-86 distillation
  distribution, cloud point and viscosity. Flash point was 63°C; viscosity was 2.86 cSt
  (centistokes); cloud point was 4°C. ASTM D86 distillation values are shown in Table 25:
  [0722]     Table 25. ASTM D86 distillation values.
  Readings in °C:
  Volume          Temperature
  IBP              173
  5                217.4
  10               242.1
  15               255.8
  20               265.6
  30               277.3
  40               283.5
  50               286.6
  60               289.4
                                                  205

          70              290.9
          80              294.3
          90              300
          95              307.7
          FBP             331.5
          [0723]     The T10-T90 of the material produced was 57.9°C. Methods of hydrotreating,
          isomerization, and other covalent modification of oils disclosed herein, as well as methods of
          distillation and fractionation (such as cold filtration) disclosed herein, can be employed to
          generate renewable diesel compositions with other T10-T90 ranges, such as 20, 25, 30, 35,
          40, 45, 50, 60 and 65°C using triglyceride oils produced according to the methods disclosed
,.......i
          herein.
~         [0724]     The TlO of the material produced was 242.1 °C. Methods of hydrotreating,
          isomerization, and other covalent modification of oils disclosed herein, as well as methods of
          distillation and fractionation (such as cold filtration) disclosed herein, can be employed to
          generate renewable diesel compositions with other TlO values, such as TlO between 180 and
          295, between 190 and 270, between 210 and 250, between 225 and 245, and at least 290.
          [0725]     The T90 of the material produced was 300°C. Methods of hydrotreating,
          isomerization, and other covalent modification of oils disclosed herein, as well as methods of
          distillation and fractionation (such as cold filtration) disclosed herein can be employed to
          generate renewable diesel compositions with other T90 values, such as T90 between 280 and
          380, between 290 and 360, between 300 and 350, between 310 and 340, and at least 290.
          [0726]     The FBP of the material produced was 300°C. Methods of hydrotreating,
          isomerization, and other covalent modification of oils disclosed herein, as well as methods of
          distillation and fractionation (such as cold filtration) disclosed herein, can be employed to
          generate renewable diesel compositions with other FBP values, such as FBP between 290 and
          400, between 300 and 385, between 310 and 370, between 315 and 360, and at least 300.
          [0727]     Other oils provided by the methods and compositions of the invention can be
          subjected to combinations of hydrotreating, isomerization, and other covalent modification
          including oils with lipid profiles including (a) at least 4% C8-C14; (b) at least 0.3% C8; (c) at
          least 2% ClO; (d) at least 2% C12; and (3) at least 30% C8-C14.
          EXAMPLE 14: Production of Tailored Oils
          [0728]     Using the methods and materials as disclosed herein, various tailored oils were
          produced. Table 32 shows the strain, the gene and the genbank accession numbers of the
          genes conferring the phenotype and the various fatty acid profiles produced by the indicated
                                                           206

       strain. Strains A and Bare both Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435) strains, both of which
       were classically mutagenized by a fee-for-service laboratory to improve oil yield. Strains A
       and B were then genetically engineered as described herein with the appropriate DNA
       constructs to express the desired genes. The strains were also engineered to inactivate
       endogenous desaturases, as indicated. The nucleotide sequences of the thioesterases were
       codon optimized for expression and use in Prototheca.
       [0729]     The fatty acid profile of wild type, un-engineered Prototheca is shown in the first
       line of Table 32. As can be seen, the fatty acid profile has been dramatically altered in
       different ways in the different strains. For example, the percentage of C8:0 produced by non-
       genetically engineered P. moriformis cells is 0%. However, P. moriformis cells engineered
       to express a C. hookeriana thioesterase increased C8:0 production from 0% to 13.2 % of the
       total triglycerides. As another example, the total combined amount of C8:0 and ClO:O in the
       engineered strains was about 39% of the total fatty acids. In contrast, the total combined
       amount of C8:0 and ClO:O in the wild type cells is 0.01 %. In another example, the total
       amount of saturated fatty acids was increased from about 32% to about 90% by the
       expression of an U. americana thioesterase in cells in which expression of endogenous
       SAD2b was disrupted. This is an increase of almost 300%.
       [0730]     The various fatty acid profiles as disclosed below are useful in myriad applications
       involving triglyceride oils. For example, high levels of lower carbon chain length saturated
       fatty acids comprising triglyceride (C12:0, C14:0, C16:0) are particularly useful in renewable
      jet fuel production. For biodiesel production, high amounts of C18: 1 are desirable. For bar
       soap production, controlling and achieving the appropriate balance between the levels of
       saturation and shorter chain fatty acids is desirable. As an example, high amounts of C 12:0
       are desirable for lathering properties while longer chain lengths provide more structure, while
       linoleic and linolenic containing triglycerides are less desirable as they contribute to oxidative
       instability. For liquid soaps, high amounts of C12:0 and C14:0 are desirable. Additionally,
       for both bar soap and liquid soap production, low amounts of C6:0, C8:0 and ClO:O are
       desirable as these lower chain triglycerides are skin irritants.
       [0731]     Table 32. Genes and accession numbers conferring phenotypes of various
       triglyceride profiles.
  Trait     Gen Bank       Gene    Construct* Seq.     Strain  C8:0 ClO:O C12:C C14:0 C16:0 C18:0 C18:1 C18:2 Total
            Accession   Conferring             Id.    Genetic                                                Saturate5
                and     Phenotype              No. Background
           Descriptoin
Wild Type                               na          UTEX 1435 0.00 0.01 0.04 1.27 27.20 3.85 58.70 7.18        32.36
                                                        207

 Highest     U39834   C. hookeriana pSZ 1458       A     13.20 25.84 0.51 1.41 10.22 1.39 38.21 7.42  52.57
   cs                       TE
 Highest     U39834   C. hookeriana pSZ 1458       A     13.20 25.84 0.51 1.41 10.22 1.39 38.21 7.42  52.57
   C10                      TE
 Highest  U56104and C. wright ii TE pSZ 1491       B      .02 13.63 50.59 6.49 6.64 0.87 13.74 6.83   78.00
   C12       U67317    + C. wrightii (SEQID
          (SEQID NO:      KASAl       NO: 232)
               185)
 Highest     U31813   Cinnamomum pSZ 941       UTEX 1435 0.00 0.06 5.91 43.27 19.63 0.87 13.96 13.78  69.74
   C14                camphoraTE (SEQID
                                         NO:
                                      236)/944
                                       (SEQID
                                      NO: 228)
 Highest    Q39513.1 C. hookeriana pSZ 1417        A     0.00 0.02 0.11 10.62 69.92 2.18 12.95 5.15   80.35
   C16                      TE         (SEQID
                                      NO: 226)
 Highest   U56104 as C. wright ii TE pSZ 1410      A     0.00 0.11 1.28 1.82 24.55 37.38 23.51 7.88   65.14
   C18    SAD2B gene                   (SEQID
           disruption                 NO: 230)
 Highest     U39834   C. hookeriana pSZ 1458       A     13.20 25.84 0.51 1.41 10.22 1.39 38.21 7.42  52.57
 C8-C10                     TE
 Highest     U56104   C. wright ii TE pSZ 1283     A      .22 17.64 45.85 10.94 5.55 0.79 13.49 4.68  74.65
 C8-C14                                (SEQID
                                      NO: 229)
 Highest     U56104   C. wright ii TE pSZ 1283     A      .22 17.64 45.85 10.94 5.55 0.79 13.49 4.68  74.65
 C10-C14                               (SEQID
                                      NO: 229)
 Highest ABB71579.1 C. cal/ophyl/a pSZ 1570        B      .01  0.88 28.04 34.08 19.82 1.00 10.52 4.42 83.83
 C12-C14 (SEQID NO:         TE         (SEQID
               286)                   NO: 235)
 Lowest    AAB71731       Ulmus       pSZ 1321     A      .12 10.39 3.55 35.21 33.54 4.90 5.15 5.69   87.71
  18:1    (SEQID NO: americana TE (SEQID
             287) as                  NO: 242)
          SAD2B gene
           disruption
 Highest      FADc      Carthamus     pSZ 1500     A       0     0     0    0   16.490     83.51 0.00 16.49
  18:1     Disruption  tinctorus TE    (SEQID
               with                   NO: 233)
           Carthamus
           tincorusTE
          AAA33019.1
 Lowest       FADc      Carthamus     pSZ 1501     A       0     0    .03 1.05 18.01 1.44 77.11 0.00  20.53
  18:2     Disruption  tinctorus TE    (SEQID
               with                   NO: 234)
           Carthamus
           tincorusTE
          AAA33019.1
 Highest   AAB71731       Ulmus       pSZ 1321     A      .30 13.07 3.57 33.58 33.52 5.16 5.36 4.50   89.20
Saturates as a SAD2B americana TE (SEQID
           Disruption                 NO: 242)
       Palm Kernel Oil
                                                  208

[0732]    We produced a microbial palm kernel oil mimetic that was similar to palm kernel
oil (PKO). To produce the palm kernel oil mimetic, a plasmid was constructed and used to
transform Strain A and oil production was carried out. The construct, pSZ1413 (SEQ ID NO:
231), comprised codon optimized Cuphea wrightii FATB2 gene (SEQ ID NO: 284) (Gen
bank accession no. U56106) and SAD2B (stearoyl ACP desaturase) gene disruption.
[0733]    As shown in Table 33 below, the palm kernel oil mimetic was similar to palm
kernel oil. The percentages of the three most abundant fatty acids of the PKO mimetic
(C12:0, C14:0 and C18:1) were identical to or within 10% of the palm kernel oil.
[0734]    Table 33. Triglyceride profile of palm kernel oil mimetic.
               C8:0    ClO:O   C12:0      C14:0       C16:0    C18:0    C18:1       C18:2
     E.       3.0-5.0  2.5-6.0 40-52     14.0-18.0   7.0-10.0  1.0-3.0 11.0-19.0   0.5-4.0
guineensis
   (Palm
  kernel)
 pSZ1413                8.33    37.45      18.22      13.52     1.25     15.29       4.95
Palm Oil
[0735]    We produced a microbial palm oil mimetic that was similar to palm oil. Several
different plasmids were constructed and transformed individually into Strain A and oil
production was carried out. The construct, pSZ1503 (SEQ ID NO: 283), was designed to
disrupt an endogenous KASH gene. The construct, pSZ1439 (SEQ ID NO: 237), comprised
a codon optimized Elaeis guiniensis TE gene (SEQ ID NO: 205) (Gen bank accession no.
AAD42220.2). The construct, pSZ1420 (SEQ ID NO: 225), comprised a codon optimized
Cuphea hookeriana TE gene (SEQ ID NO: 201) (Gen Bank Accession no. Q39513). The
construct, pSZl 119 (SEQ ID NO: 227), comprised a codon optimized Cuphea hookeriana
KAS IV gene (SEQ ID NO: 186) (Gen Bank Accession no. AF060519) as well as a Cuphea
wrightii FATB2 gene (SEQ ID NO: 184) (Gen Bank Accession no. U56104).
[0736]    As shown in Table 34 below, the palm oil mimetic was similar to palm oil. The
percentages of the three most abundant fatty acids of the palm oil mimetic (C16:0, C18:1 and
C18:2) were identical to or within 10% of palm oil.
[0737]    Table 34. Triglyceride profile of palm oil mimetic.
               ClO:O     C12:0       C14:0         C16:0      C18:0    C18:1      C18:2
     E.           0         0       0.5-5.9       32.0-47.0   2.0-8.0  34-44     7.2-12.0
guineensis
   (Palm)
 pSZ1503        0.01      0.01        0.83          38.36       2.21   48.31       7.60
 pSZ1439        0.01      0.04        1.88          43.50       3.32   39.95       9.16
 pSZ1420        0.02      0.04        2.44          48.04       2.76   35.62       8.91
 pSZ1119        1.77      0.40        7.85          35.45       2.47   42.85       8.15
                                                209

   Cocoa Butter
   [0738]    We produced a microbial cocoa butter mimetic that was similar to cocoa butter.
   The construct, pSZ1451, was constructed and transformed into Strain A and oil production
   was carried out. The construct, pSZ1451 (SEQ ID NO: 239), comprised codon optimized
   Carthamus tinctorus TE gene (SEQ ID NO: 187) (Gen Bank Accession no. AAA33019.1).
~  [0739]    As shown in Table 35 below, the cocoa butter oil mimetic was similar to cocoa
~
N  butter. The percentages of the three most abundant fatty acids of the cocoa butter mimetic
~
0  (C16:0, C18:0 and C18:1) were identical to or within 10% of cocoa butter.
N
00 [0740]    Table 35. Triglyceride profile of cocoa butter mimetic.
~
0                     C8:0   ClO:O     C12:0     C14:0     C16:0   C18:0    C18:1     C18:2
N   Cocoa Butter        0      0-1       0-1       0-4      22-38  24-37    29-38      0-3
       pSZ1451                0.05      0.14      0.99      28.34  27.39    29.40     10.26
   [0741]    We produced a microbial lard mimetic that was similar to lard. Several different
   plasmids were constructed and transformed individually into Strain A and oil production was
   carried out. The construct, pSZ1493 (SEQ ID NO: 241), was designed to disrupt the
   endogenous SAD 2B gene and simultaneously express a codon optimized Umbellularia
   californica TE gene (SEQ ID NO: 285) (Gen Bank Accession no. M94159). The construct,
   pSZ1452 (SEQ ID NO: 240), was designed to disrupt the endogenous SAD 2B gene and
   express a codon optimized Garcinia mangostana TE gene (SEQ ID NO: 196) (Gen Bank
   Accession no. AAB51525.1). The construct, pSZ1449 (SEQ ID NO: 238), was designed to
   express the codon optimized Brassica napus TE gene (SEQ ID NO: 195) (Gen Bank
   Accession no. CAA52070.1 ). The polynucleotide sequence of the construct pSZl 458 was
   identical to pSZ1449 except that a codon optimized polynucleotide sequence encoding a
   Cuphea hookeriana thioesterase (Gen Bank accession No. U39834) replaced the
   polynucleotide sequence encoding Brassica napus TE gene (SEQ ID NO: 195) (Gen Bank
   Accession no. CAA52070.1).
   [0742]    As shown in Table 36 below, the lard mimetic was similar to lard. The percentages
   of the three most abundant fatty acids of the lard mimetic (C16:0, C18:0 and C18: 1) were
   identical to or within 10% of lard.
   [0743]    Table 36. Triglyceride profile of lard mimetic.
                       C14:0        C16:0            C18:0          C18:1         C18:2
        Lard            3-4          22-26            13-18          39-45         8-15
     pSZ1493            1.32         24.79            17.49          41.87         10.01
                                                  210

   pSZ1452           1.16           24.49            17.94          45.49           8.05
   pSZ1449           1.16           23.98            15.79          47.88           8.29
[0744]     Although this invention has been described in connection with specific
embodiments thereof, it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications. This
application is intended to cover any variations, uses, or adaptations of the invention
following, in general, the principles of the invention and including such departures from the
present disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to which the
invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth.
[0745]     All references cited herein, including patents, patent applications, and publications,
including Genbank Accession numbers, are hereby incorporated by reference in their
entireties, whether previously specifically incorporated or not. The publications mentioned
herein are cited for the purpose of describing and disclosing reagents, methodologies and
concepts that may be used in connection with the present invention. Nothing herein is to be
construed as an admission that these references are prior art in relation to the inventions
described herein. In particular, the following patent applications are hereby incorporated by
reference in their entireties for all purposes: PCT Application No. PCT/US2008/065563, filed
June 2, 2008, entitled "Production of Oil in Microorganisms", PCT Application No.
PCT/US2010/31108, filed April 14, 2010, entitled "Methods of Microbial Oil Extraction and
Separation", and PCT Application No. PCT/US2009/066142, filed November 30, 2009,
entitled "Production of Tailored Oils in Heterotrophic Microorganisms".
                                                 211

                                    SEQUENCE LISTING
SEQ ID NO: 1
HUP promoter from Chlorella (subsequence of GenBank accession number X55349)
GATCAGACGGGCCTGACCTGCGAGATAATCAAGTGCTCGTAGGCAACCAACTCA
GCAGCTGCTTGGTGTTGGGTCTGCAGGATAGTGTTGCAGGGCCCCAAGGACAGC
AGGGGAACTTACACCTTGTCCCCGACCCAGTTTTATGGAGTGCATTGCCTCAAGA
GCCTAGCCGGAGCGCTAGGCTACATACTTGCCGCACCGGTATGAGGGGATATAG
TACTCGCACTGCGCTGTCTAGTGAGATGGGCAGTGCTGCCCATAAACAACTGGCT
GCTCAGCCATTTGTTGGCGGACCATTCTGGGGGGGCCAGCAATGCCTGACTTTCG
GGTAGGGTGAAAACTGAACAAAGACTACCAAAACAGAATTTCTTCCTCCTTGGA
GGTAAGCGCAGGCCGGCCCGCCTGCGCCCACATGGCGCTCCGAACACCTCCATA
GCTGTAAGGGCGCAAACATGGCCGGACTGTTGTCAGCACTCTTTCATGGCCATAC
AAGGTCATGTCGAGATTAGTGCTGAGTAAGACACTATCACCCCATGTTCGATTGA
AGCCGTGACTTCATGCCAACCTGCCCCTGGGCGTAGCAGACGTATGCCATCATGA
CCACTAGCCGACATGCGCTGTCTTTTGCCACCAAAACAACTGGTACACCGCTCGA
AGTCGTGCCGCACACCTCCGGGAGTGAGTCCGGCGACTCCTCCCCGGCGGGCCG
CGGCCCTACCTGGGTAGGGTCGCCATACGCCCACGACCAAACGACGCAGGAGGG
GATTGGGGTAGGGAATCCCAACCAGCCTAACCAAGACGGCACCTATAATAATAG
GTGGGGGGACTAACAGCCCTATATCGCAAGCTTTGGGTGCCTATCTTGAGAAGCA
CGAGTTGGAGTGGCTGTGTACGGTCGACCCTAAGGTGGGTGTGCCGCAGCCTGA
AACAAAGCGTCTAGCAGCTGCTTCTATAATGTGTCAGCCGTTGTGTTTCAGTTAT
ATTGTATGCTATTGTTTGTTCGTGCTAGGGTGGCGCAGGCCCACCTACTGTGGCG
GGCCATTGGTTGGTGCTTGAATTGCCTCACCATCTAAGGTCTGAACGCTCACTCA
AACGCCTTTGTACAACTGCAGAACTTTCCTTGGCGCTGCAACTACAGTGTGCAAA
CCAGCACATAGCACTCCCTTACATCACCCAGCAGTACAACA
SEQ IDNO: 2
Chlorella ellipsoidea nitrate reductase promoter from AY307383
CGCTGCGCACCAGGGCCGCCAGCTCGCTGATGTCGCTCCAAATGCGGTCCCCCGA
TTTTTTGTTCTTCATCTTCTCCACCTTGGTGGCCTTCTTGGCCAGGGCCTTCAGCTG
CATGCGCACAGACCGTTGAGCTCCTGATCAGCATCCTCAGGAGGCCCTTTGACAA
GCAAGCCCCTGTGCAAGCCCATTCACGGGGTACCAGTGGTGCTGAGGTAGATGG
GTTTGAAAAGGATTGCTCGGTCGATTGCTGCTCATGGAATTGGCATGTGCATGCA
TGTTCACAATATGCCACCAGGCTTTGGAGCAAGAGAGCATGAATGCCTTCAGGC
AGGTTGAAAGTTCCTGGGGGTGAAGAGGCAGGGCCGAGGATTGGAGGAGGAAA
GCATCAAGTCGTCGCTCATGCTCATGTTTTCAGTCAGAGTTTGCCAAGCTCACAG
GAGCAGAGACAAGACTGGCTGCTCAGGTGTTGCATCGTGTGTGTGGTGGGGGGG
GGGGGGTTAATACGGTACGAAATGCACTTGGAATTCCCACCTCATGCCAGCGGA
CCCACATGCTTGAATTCGAGGCCTGTGGGGTGAGAAATGCTCACTCTGCCCTCGT
TGCTGAGGTACTTCAGGCCGCTGAGCTCAAAGTCGATGCCCTGCTCGTCTATCAG
GGCCTGCACCTCTGGGCTGACCGGCTCAGCCTCCTTCGCGGGCATGGAGTAGGCG
CCGGCAGCGTTCATGTCCGGGCCCAGGGCAGCGGTGGTGCCATAAATGTCGGTG
ATGGTGGGGAGGGGGGCCGTCGCCACACCATTGCCGTTGCTGGCTGACGCATGC
ACATGTGGCCTGGCTGGCACCGGCAGCACTGGTCTCCAGCCAGCCAGCAAGTGG
CTGTTCAGGAAAGCGGCCATGTTGTTGGTCCCTGCGCATGTAATTCCCCAGATCA
AAGGAGGGAACAGCTTGGATTTGATGTAGTGCCCAACCGGACTGAATGTGCGAT
                                             212

GGCAGGTCCCTTTGAGTCTCCCGAATTACTAGCAGGGCACTGTGACCTAACGCAG
CATGCCAACCGCAAAAAAATGATTGACAGAAAATGAAGCGGTGTGTCAATATTT
GCTGTATTTATTCGTTTTAATCAGCAACCAAGTTCGAAACGCAACTATCGTGGTG
ATCAAGTGAACCTCATCAGACTTACCTCGTTCGGCAAGGAAACGGAGGCACCAA
ATTCCAATTTGATATTATCGCTTGCCAAGCTAGAGCTGATCTTTGGGAAACCAAC
TGCCAGACAGTGGACTGTGATGGAGTGCCCCGAGTGGTGGAGCCTCTTCGATTCG
GTTAGTCATTACTAACGTGAACCCTCAGTGAAGGGACCATCAGACCAGAAAGAC
CAGATCTCCTCCTCGACACCGAGAGAGTGTTGCGGCAGTAGGACGACAAG
SEQ IDNO: 3
Yeast sucrose invertase
MTNETSDRPLVHFfPNKGWMNDPNGLWYDEKDAKWHLYFQYNPNDTVWGTPLF
WGHATSDDLTNWEDQPIAIAPKRNDSGAFSGSMVVDYNNTSGFFNDTIDPRQRCVAI
WTYNTPESEEQYISYSLDGGYTFfEYQKNPVLAANSTQFRDPKVFWYEPSQKWIMT
AAKSQDYKIEIYSSDDLKSWKLESAFANEGFLGYQYECPGLIEVPTEQDPSKSYWVM
FISINPGAPAGGSFNQYFVGSFNGTHFEAFDNQSRVVDFGKDYYALQTFFNTDPTYGS
ALGIAWASNWEYSAFVPTNPWRSSMSLVRKFSLNTEYQANPETELINLKAEPILNISN
AGPWSRFATNTTLTKANSYNVDLSNSTGTLEFELVYAVNTTQTISKSVFADLSLWFK
GLEDPEEYLRMGFEVSASSFFLDRGNSKVKFVKENPYFTNRMSVNNQPFKSENDLSY
YKVYGLLDQNILELYFNDGDVVSTNTYFMTTGNALGSVNMTTGVDNLFYIDKFQVR
EVK
SEQ IDNO: 4
Yeast secretion signal
MLLQAFLFLLAGFAAKISAS
SEQ IDNO: 5
Higher plants secretion signal
MANKSLLLLLLLGSLASG
SEQ IDNO: 6
Consensus eukaryotic secretion signal
MARLPLAALG
SEQ IDNO: 7
Combination higher plant/eukaryotic secretion signal
MANKLLLLLLLLLLPLAASG
SEQ IDNO: 8
S. cerevisiae sucrose invertase NP_012104
GAATTCCCCAACATGGTGGAGCACGACACTCTCGTCTACTCCAAGAATATCAAAG
ATACAGTCTCAGAAGACCAAAGGGCTATTGAGACTTTTCAACAAAGGGTAATAT
CGGGAAACCTCCTCGGATTCCATTGCCCAGCTATCTGTCACTTCATCAAAAGGAC
AGTAGAAAAGGAAGGTGGCACCTACAAATGCCATCATTGCGATAAAGGAAAGGC
TATCGTTCAAGATGCCTCTGCCGACAGTGGTCCCAAAGATGGACCCCCACCCACG
AGGAGCATCGTGGAAAAAGAAGACGTTCCAACCACGTCTTCAAAGCAAGTGGAT
                                            213

TGATGTGAACATGGTGGAGCACGACACTCTCGTCTACTCCAAGAATATCAAAGAT
ACAGTCTCAGAAGACCAAAGGGCTATTGAGACTTTTCAACAAAGGGTAATATCG
GGAAACCTCCTCGGATTCCATTGCCCAGCTATCTGTCACTTCATCAAAAGGACAG
TAGAAAAGGAAGGTGGCACCTACAAATGCCATCATTGCGATAAAGGAAAGGCTA
TCGTTCAAGATGCCTCTGCCGACAGTGGTCCCAAAGATGGACCCCCACCCACGAG
GAGCATCGTGGAAAAAGAAGACGTTCCAACCACGTCTTCAAAGCAAGTGGATTG
ATGTGATATCTCCACTGACGTAAGGGATGACGCACAATCCCACTATCCTTCGCAA
GACCCTTCCTCTATATAAGGAAGTTCATTTCATTTGGAGAGGACACGCTGAAATC
ACCAGTCTCTCTCTACAAATCTATCTCTGGCGCGCCATATCAATGCTTCTTCAGGC
CTTTCTTTTTCTTCTTGCTGGTTTTGCTGCCAAGATCAGCGCCTCTATGACGAACG
AAACCTCGGATAGACCACTTGTGCACTTTACACCAAACAAGGGCTGGATGAATG
ACCCCAATGGACTGTGGTACGACGAAAAAGATGCCAAGTGGCATCTGTACTTTC
AATACAACCCGAACGATACTGTCTGGGGGACGCCATTGTTTTGGGGCCACGCCAC
GTCCGACGACCTGACCAATTGGGAGGACCAACCAATAGCTATCGCTCCGAAGAG
GAACGACTCCGGAGCATTCTCGGGTTCCATGGTGGTTGACTACAACAATACTTCC
GGCTTTTTCAACGATACCATTGACCCGAGACAACGCTGCGTGGCCATATGGACTT
ACAACACACCGGAGTCCGAGGAGCAGTACATCTCGTATAGCCTGGACGGTGGAT
ACACTTTTACAGAGTATCAGAAGAACCCTGTGCTTGCTGCAAATTCGACTCAGTT
CCGAGATCCGAAGGTCTTTTGGTACGAGCCCTCGCAGAAGTGGATCATGACAGC
GGCAAAGTCACAGGACTACAAGATCGAAATTTACTCGTCTGACGACCTTAAATCC
TGGAAGCTCGAATCCGCGTTCGCAAACGAGGGCTTTCTCGGCTACCAATACGAAT
GCCCAGGCCTGATAGAGGTCCCAACAGAGCAAGATCCCAGCAAGTCCTACTGGG
TGATGTTTATTTCCATTAATCCAGGAGCACCGGCAGGAGGTTCTTTTAATCAGTA
CTTCGTCGGAAGCTTTAACGGAACTCATTTCGAGGCATTTGATAACCAATCAAGA
GTAGTTGATTTTGGAAAGGACTACTATGCCCTGCAGACTTTCTTCAATACTGACC
CGACCTATGGGAGCGCTCTTGGCATTGCGTGGGCTTCTAACTGGGAGTATTCCGC
ATTCGTTCCTACAAACCCTTGGAGGTCCTCCATGTCGCTCGTGAGGAAATTCTCTC
TCAACACTGAGTACCAGGCCAACCCGGAAACCGAACTCATAAACCTGAAAGCCG
AACCGATCCTGAACATTAGCAACGCTGGCCCCTGGAGCCGGTTTGCAACCAACA
CCACGTTGACGAAAGCCAACAGCTACAACGTCGATCTTTCGAATAGCACCGGTA
CACTTGAATTTGAACTGGTGTATGCCGTCAATACCACCCAAACGATCTCGAAGTC
GGTGTTCGCGGACCTCTCCCTCTGGTTTAAAGGCCTGGAAGACCCCGAGGAGTAC
CTCAGAATGGGTTTCGAGGTTTCTGCGTCCTCCTTCTTCCTTGATCGCGGGAACAG
CAAAGTAAAATTTGTTAAGGAGAACCCATATTTTACCAACAGGATGAGCGTTAA
CAACCAACCATTCAAGAGCGAAAACGACCTGTCGTACTACAAAGTGTATGGTTT
GCTTGATCAAAATATCCTGGAACTCTACTTCAACGATGGTGATGTCGTGTCCACC
AACACATACTTCATGACAACCGGGAACGCACTGGGCTCCGTGAACATGACGACG
GGTGTGGATAACCTGTTCTACATCGACAAATTCCAGGTGAGGGAAGTCAAGTGA
GATCTGTCGATCGACAAGCTCGAGTTTCTCCATAATAATGTGTGAGTAGTTCCCA
GATAAGGGAATTAGGGTTCCTATAGGGTTTCGCTCATGTGTTGAGCATATAAGAA
ACCCTTAGTATGTATTTGTATTTGTAAAATACTTCTATCAATAAAATTTCTAATTC
CTAAAACCAAAATCCAGTACTAAAATCCAGATCCCCCGAATTAA
SEQ IDNO: 9
TGTTGAAGAATGAGCCGGCGAC
SEQ IDNO: 10
CAGTGAGCTATTACGCACTC
                             214

SEQ IDNO: 11
UTEX 329 Prototheca kruegani
TGTTGAAGAATGAGCCGGCGAGTTAAAAAGAGTGGCATGGTTAAAGAAAATACT
CTGGAGCCATAGCGAAAGCAAGTTTAGTAAGCTTAGGTCATTCTTTTTAGACCCG
AAACCGAGTGATCTACCCATGATCAGGGTGAAGTGTTAGTAAAATAACATGGAG
GCCCGAACCGACTAATGTTGAAAAATTAGCGGATGAATTGTGGGTAGGGGCGAA
AAACCAATCGAACTCGGAGTTAGCTGGTTCTCCCCGAAATGCGTTTAGGCGCAGC
AGTAGCAGTACAAATAGAGGGGTAAAGCACTGTTTCTTTTGTGGGCTTCGAAAGT
TGTACCTCAAAGTGGCAAACTCTGAATACTCTATTTAGATATCTACTAGTGAGAC
CTTGGGGGATAAGCTCCTTGGTCAAAAGGGAAACAGCCCAGATCACCAGTTAAG
GCCCCAAAATGAAAATGATAGTGACTAAGGATGTGGGTATGTCAAAACCTCCAG
CAGGTTAGCTTAGAAGCAGCAATCCTTTCAAGAGTGCGTAATAGCTCACTG
SEQ IDNO: 12
UTEX 1440 Prototheca wickerhamii
TGTTGAAGAATGAGCCGGCGACTTAAAATAAATGGCAGGCTAAGAGATTTAATA
ACTCGAAACCTAAGCGAAAGCAAGTCTTAATAGGGCGTCAATTTAACAAAACTT
TAAATAAATTATAAAGTCATTTATTTTAGACCCGAACCTGAGTGATCTAACCATG
GTCAGGATGAAACTTGGGTGACACCAAGTGGAAGTCCGAACCGACCGATGTTGA
AAAATCGGCGGATGAACTGTGGTTAGTGGTGAAATACCAGTCGAACTCAGAGCT
AGCTGGTTCTCCCCGAAATGCGTTGAGGCGCAGCAATATATCTCGTCTATCTAGG
GGTAAAGCACTGTTTCGGTGCGGGCTATGAAAATGGTACCAAATCGTGGCAAAC
TCTGAATACTAGAAATGACGATATATTAGTGAGACTATGGGGGATAAGCTCCAT
AGTCGAGAGGGAAACAGCCCAGACCACCAGTTAAGGCCCCAAAATGATAATGAA
GTGGTAAAGGAGGTGAAAATGCAAATACAACCAGGAGGTTGGCTTAGAAGCAGC
CATCCTTTAAAGAGTGCGTAATAGCTCACTG
SEQ IDNO: 13
UTEX 1442 Prototheca stagnora
TGTTGAAGAATGAGCCGGCGAGTTAAAAAAAATGGCATGGTTAAAGATATTTCT
CTGAAGCCATAGCGAAAGCAAGTTTTACAAGCTATAGTCATTTTTTTTAGACCCG
AAACCGAGTGATCTACCCATGATCAGGGTGAAGTGTTGGTCAAATAACATGGAG
GCCCGAACCGACTAATGGTGAAAAATTAGCGGATGAATTGTGGGTAGGGGCGAA
AAACCAATCGAACTCGGAGTTAGCTGGTTCTCCCCGAAATGCGTTTAGGCGCAGC
AGTAGCAACACAAATAGAGGGGTAAAGCACTGTTTCTTTTGTGGGCTTCGAAAGT
TGTACCTCAAAGTGGCAAACTCTGAATACTCTATTTAGATATCTACTAGTGAGAC
CTTGGGGGATAAGCTCCTTGGTCAAAAGGGAAACAGCCCAGATCACCAGTTAAG
GCCCCAAAATGAAAATGATAGTGACTAAGGACGTGAGTATGTCAAAACCTCCAG
CAGGTTAGCTTAGAAGCAGCAATCCTTTCAAGAGTGCGTAATAGCTCACTG
SEQ IDNO: 14
UTEX 288 Prototheca moriformis
TGTTGAAGAATGAGCCGGCGAGTTAAAAAGAGTGGCATGGTTAAAGATAATTCT
CTGGAGCCATAGCGAAAGCAAGTTTAACAAGCTAAAGTCACCCTTTTTAGACCCG
AAACCGAGTGATCTACCCATGATCAGGGTGAAGTGTTGGTAAAATAACATGGAG
                                 215

GCCCGAACCGACTAATGGTGAAAAATTAGCGGATGAATTGTGGGTAGGGGCGAA
AAACCAATCGAACTCGGAGTTAGCTGGTTCTCCCCGAAATGCGTTTAGGCGCAGC
AGTAGCAACACAAATAGAGGGGTAAAGCACTGTTTCTTTTGTGGGCTTCGAAAGT
TGTACCTCAAAGTGGCAAACTCTGAATACTCTATTTAGATATCTACTAGTGAGAC
CTTGGGGGATAAGCTCCTTGGTCAAAAGGGAAACAGCCCAGATCACCAGTTAAG
GCCCCAAAATGAAAATGATAGTGACTAAGGATGTGGGTATGTTAAAACCTCCAG
CAGGTTAGCTTAGAAGCAGCAATCCTTTCAAGAGTGCGTAATAGCTCACTG
SEQ IDNO: 15
UTEX 1439, UTEX 1441, UTEX 1435, UTEX 1437 Prototheca moriformis
TGTTGAAGAATGAGCCGGCGACTTAAAATAAATGGCAGGCTAAGAGAATTAATA
ACTCGAAACCTAAGCGAAAGCAAGTCTTAATAGGGCGCTAATTTAACAAAACAT
TAAATAAAATCTAAAGTCATTTATTTTAGACCCGAACCTGAGTGATCTAACCATG
GTCAGGATGAAACTTGGGTGACACCAAGTGGAAGTCCGAACCGACCGATGTTGA
AAAATCGGCGGATGAACTGTGGTTAGTGGTGAAATACCAGTCGAACTCAGAGCT
AGCTGGTTCTCCCCGAAATGCGTTGAGGCGCAGCAATATATCTCGTCTATCTAGG
GGTAAAGCACTGTTTCGGTGCGGGCTATGAAAATGGTACCAAATCGTGGCAAAC
TCTGAATACTAGAAATGACGATATATTAGTGAGACTATGGGGGATAAGCTCCAT
AGTCGAGAGGGAAACAGCCCAGACCACCAGTTAAGGCCCCAAAATGATAATGAA
GTGGTAAAGGAGGTGAAAATGCAAATACAACCAGGAGGTTGGCTTAGAAGCAGC
CATCCTTTAAAGAGTGCGTAATAGCTCACTG
SEQ IDNO: 16
UTEX 1533 Prototheca wickerhamii
TGTTGAAGAATGAGCCGTCGACTTAAAATAAATGGCAGGCTAAGAGAATTAATA
ACTCGAAACCTAAGCGAAAGCAAGTCTTAATAGGGCGCTAATTTAACAAAACAT
TAAATAAAATCTAAAGTCATTTATTTTAGACCCGAACCTGAGTGATCTAACCATG
GTCAGGATGAAACTTGGGTGACACCAAGTGGAAGTCCGAACCGACCGATGTTGA
AAAATCGGCGGATGAACTGTGGTTAGTGGTGAAATACCAGTCGAACTCAGAGCT
AGCTGGTTCTCCCCGAAATGCGTTGAGGCGCAGCAATATATCTCGTCTATCTAGG
GGTAAAGCACTGTTTCGGTGCGGGCTATGAAAATGGTACCAAATCGTGGCAAAC
TCTGAATACTAGAAATGACGATATATTAGTGAGACTATGGGGGATAAGCTCCAT
AGTCGAGAGGGAAACAGCCCAGACCACCAGTTAAGGCCCCAAAATGATAATGAA
GTGGTAAAGGAGGTGAAAATGCAAATACAACCAGGAGGTTGGCTTAGAAGCAGC
CATCCTTTAAAGAGTGCGTAATAGCTCACTG
SEQ IDNO: 17
UTEX 1434 Prototheca moriformis
TGTTGAAGAATGAGCCGGCGAGTTAAAAAGAGTGGCGTGGTTAAAGAAAATTCT
CTGGAACCATAGCGAAAGCAAGTTTAACAAGCTTAAGTCACTTTTTTTAGACCCG
AAACCGAGTGATCTACCCATGATCAGGGTGAAGTGTTGGTAAAATAACATGGAG
GCCCGAACCGACTAATGGTGAAAAATTAGCGGATGAATTGTGGGTAGGGGCGAA
AAACCAATCGAACTCGGAGTTAGCTGGTTCTCCCCGAAATGCGTTTAGGCGCAGC
AGTAGCAACACAAATAGAGGGGTAAAGCACTGTTTCTTTTGTGGGCTCCGAAAG
TTGTACCTCAAAGTGGCAAACTCTGAATACTCTATTTAGATATCTACTAGTGAGA
CCTTGGGGGATAAGCTCCTTGGTCGAAAGGGAAACAGCCCAGATCACCAGTTAA
                                    216

GGCCCCAAAATGAAAATGATAGTGACTAAGGATGTGAGTATGTCAAAACCTCCA
GCAGGTTAGCTTAGAAGCAGCAATCCTTTCAAGAGTGCGTAATAGCTCACTG
SEQ IDNO: 18
UTEX 1438 Prototheca zopfii
TGTTGAAGAATGAGCCGGCGAGTTAAAAAGAGTGGCATGGTTAAAGAAAATTCT
CTGGAGCCATAGCGAAAGCAAGTTTAACAAGCTTAAGTCACTTTTTTTAGACCCG
AAACCGAGTGATCTACCCATGATCAGGGTGAAGTGTTGGTAAAATAACATGGAG
GCCCGAACCGACTAATGGTGAAAAATTAGCGGATGAATTGTGGGTAGGGGCGAA
AAACCAATCGAACTCGGAGTTAGCTGGTTCTCCCCGAAATGCGTTTAGGCGCAGC
AGTAGCAACACAAATAGAGGGGTAAAGCACTGTTTCTTTCGTGGGCTTCGAAAG
TTGTACCTCAAAGTGGCAAACTCTGAATACTCTATTTAGATATCTACTAGTGAGA
CCTTGGGGGATAAGCTCCTTGGTCAAAAGGGAAACAGCCCAGATCACCAGTTAA
GGCCCCAAAATGAAAATGATAGTGACTAAGGATGTGAGTATGTCAAAACCTCCA
GCAGGTTAGCTTAGAAGCAGCAATCCTTTCAAGAGTGCGTAATAGCTCACTG
SEQ IDNO: 19
UTEX 1436 Prototheca moriformis
TGTTGAAGAATGAGCCGGCGACTTAGAAAAGGTGGCATGGTTAAGGAAATATTC
CGAAGCCGTAGCAAAAGCGAGTCTGAATAGGGCGATAAAATATATTAATATTTA
GAATCTAGTCATTTTTTCTAGACCCGAACCCGGGTGATCTAACCATGACCAGGAT
GAAGCTTGGGTGATACCAAGTGAAGGTCCGAACCGACCGATGTTGAAAAATCGG
CGGATGAGTTGTGGTTAGCGGTGAAATACCAGTCGAACCCGGAGCTAGCTGGTT
CTCCCCGAAATGCGTTGAGGCGCAGCAGTACATCTAGTCTATCTAGGGGTAAAGC
ACTGTTTCGGTGCGGGCTGTGAGAACGGTACCAAATCGTGGCAAACTCTGAATAC
TAGAAATGACGATGTAGTAGTGAGACTGTGGGGGATAAGCTCCATTGTCAAGAG
GGAAACAGCCCAGACCACCAGCTAAGGCCCCAAAATGGTAATGTAGTGACAAAG
GAGGTGAAAATGCAAATACAACCAGGAGGTTGGCTTAGAAGCAGCCATCCTTTA
AAGAGTGCGTAATAGCTCACTG
SEQ IDNO: 20
Chicorium intybus invertase: Genbank Accession No. Yl 1124
MSNSSNASESLFPATSEQPYRTAFHFQPPQNWMNDPNGPMCYNGVYHLFYQYNPFG
PLWNLRMYWAHSVSHDLINWIHLDLAFAPTEPFDINGCLSGSATVLPGNKPIMLYTG
IDTENRQVQNLAVPKDLSDPYLREWVKHTGNPIISLPEEIQPDDFRDPTTTWLEEDGT
WRLLVGSQKDKTGIAFLYHSGDFVNWTKSDSPLHKVSGTGMWECVDFFPVWVDST
NGVDTSIINPSNRVKHVLKLGIQDHGKDCYLIGKYSADKENYVPEDELTLSTLRLDY
GMYYASKSFFDPVKNRRIMTAWVNESDSEADVIARGWSGVQSFPRSLWLDKNQKQ
LLQWPIEEIEMLHQNEVSFHNKKLDGGSSLEVLGITASQADVKISFKLANLEEAEELD
PSWVDPQLICSENDASKKGKFGPFGLLALASSDLREQTAIFFRVFRKNGRYVVLMCS
DQSRSSMKNGIEKRTYGAFVDIDPQQDEISLRTLIDHSIVESFGGRGKTCITTRVYPTL
AIGEQARLFAFNHGTESVEISELSAWSMKKAQMKVEEP
SEQ IDNO: 21
Schizosaccharomyces pombe Invertase: Genbank Accession No. ABOl 1433
                                          217

MFLKYILASGICLVSLLSSTNAAPRHLYVKRYPVIYNASNITEVSNSTTVPPPPFVNTT
APNGTCLGNYNEYLPSGYYNATDRPKIHFTPSSGFMNDPNGLVYTGGVYHMFFQYS
PKTLTAGEVHWGHTVSKDLIHWENYPIAIYPDEHENGVLSLPFSGSAVVDVHNSSGL
FSNDTIPEERIVLIYTDHWTGVAERQAIA YTTDGGYTFKKYSGNPVLDINSLQFRDPK
VIWDFDANRWVMIV AMSQNYGIAFYSSYDLIHWTELSVFSTSGYLGLQYECPGMAR
VPVEGTDEYKWVLFISINPGAPLGGSVVQYFVGDWNGTNFVPDDGQTRFVDLGKDF
YASALYHSSSANADVIGVGWASNWQYTNQAPTQVFRSAMTV ARKFTLRDVPQNPM
TNLTSLIQTPLNVSLLRDETLFTAPVINSSSSLSGSPITLPSNTAFEFNVTLSINYTEGCT
TGYCLGRIIIDSDDPYRLQSISVDVDFAASTLVINRAKAQMGWFNSLFTPSFANDIYIY
GNVTLYGIVDNGLLEL YVNNGEKTYTNDFFFLQGATPGQISFAAFQGVSFNNVTVTP
LKTIWNC
SEQ IDNO: 22
Picha anomala beta-fructofuranosidase (invertase): Genbank Accession No. X80640
MIQLSPLLLLPLFSVFNSIADASTEYLRPQIHLTPDQGWMNDPNGMFYDRKDKLWHV
YFQHNPDKKSIWATPVTWGHSTSKDLLTWDYHGNALEPENDDEGIFSGSVVVDRNN
TSGFFNDSTDPEQRIVAIYTNNAQLQTQEIA YSLDKGYSFIKYDQNPVINVNSSQQRD
PKVLWHDESNQWIMVVAKTQEFKVQIYGSPDLKKWDLKSNFTSNGYLGFQYECPG
LFKLPIENPLNDTVTSKWVLLLAINPGSPLGGSINEYFIGDFDGTTFHPDDGATRFMDI
GKDFY AFQSFDNTEPEDGALGLAWASNWQY ANTVPTENWRSSMSLVRNYTLKYVD
VNPENYGLTLIQKPVYDTKETRLNETLKTLETINEYEVNDLKLDKSSFVATDFNTERN
ATGVFEFDLKFTQTDLKMGYSNMTTQFGLYIHSQTVKGSQETLQLVFDTLSTTWYID
RTTQHSFQRNSPVFTERISTYVEKIDTTDQGNVYTLYGVVDRNILELYFNDGSIAMTN
TFFFREGKIPTSFEVVCDSEKSFITIDELSVRELARK
SEQ IDNO: 23
Debaryomyces occidentalis Invertase: Genbank Accession No. X17604
MVQVLSVLVIPLLTLFFGYV ASSSIDLSVDTSEYNRPLIHFTPEKGWMNDPNGLFYDK
TAKLWHLYFQYNPNATAWGQPL YWGHATSNDL VHWDEHEIAIGPEHDNEGIFSGSI
VVDHNNTSGFFNSSIDPNQRIVAIYTNNIPDLQTQDIAFSLDGGYTFTKYENNPVIDVS
SNQFRDPKVFWHERFKSMDHGCSEIARVKIQIFGSANLKNWVLNSNFSSGYYGNQY
GMSRLIEVPIENSDKSKWVMFLAINPGSPLGGSINQYFVGDFDGFQFVPDDSQTRFVD
IGKDFY AFQTFSEVEHGVLGLAWASNWQYADQVPTNPWRSSTSLARNYTLRYVIQM
LKLTANIDKSVLPDSINVVDKLKKKNVKLTNKKPIKTNFKGSTGLFDFNITFKVLNLN
VSPGKTHFDILINSQELNSSVDSIKIGFDSSQSLFYIDRHIPNVEFPRKQFFTDKLAAYL
EPLDYDQDLRVFSLYGIVDKNIIELYFNDGTVAMTNTFFMGEGKYPHDIQIVTDTEEP
LFELESVIIRELNK
SEQ IDNO: 24
Oryza sativa Invertase: Genbank Accession No. AF019113
MATSRLTPAYDLKNAAAAVYTPLPEQPHSAEVEIRDRKPFKIISAIILSSLLLLALILVA
VNYQAPPSHSSGDNSQPAA VMPPSRGVSQGVSEKAFRGASGAGNGVSFAWSNLMLS
WQRTSYHFQPVKNWMNDPNGPLYYKGWYHLFYQYNPDSAVWGNITWGHAVSTD
LINWLHLPFAMVPDQWYDVNGVWTGSATILPDGRIVMLYTGDTDDYVQDQNLAFP
ANLSDPLLVDWVKYPNNPVIYPPPGIGVKDFRDPTTAGTAGMQNGQRLVTIGSKVG
KTGISLVYETTNFTTFKLLYGVLHAVPGTGMWECVDLYPVSTTGENGLDTSVNGLG
VKHVLKTSLDDDKHDYY ALGTYDPVKNKWTPDNPDLDVGIGLRLDYGKYYAARTF
                                            218

YDQNKQRRILWGWIGETDLEAVDLMKGWASLQAIPRTIVFDKKTGTNVLQRPEEEV
ESWSSGDPITQRRIFEPGSVVPIHVSGATQLDITASFEVDETLLETTSESHDAGYDCSN
SGGAGTRGSLGPFGLLVVADEKLSELTPVYLYVAKGGDGKAKAHLCAYQTRSSMAS
GVEKEVYGSAVPVLDGENYSARILIDHSIVESFAQAGRTCVRSRDYPTKDIYGAARCF
FFNNATEASVRASLKAWQMKSFIRPYPFIPDQKS
SEQ IDNO: 25
Allium cepa Invertase: Genbank Accession No. AJ006067
MSSD DLESPPSSYLPIPPSD EFHDQPPPLRSWLRLLSIPLALMFLLFLATFLSNLESPPSD
SGLVSDPVTFDVNPAVVRRGKDAGVSDKTSGVDSGFVLDPVAVDANSVVVHRGKD
AGVSDKTSGVDSGLLKDSPLGPYPWTNQMLSWQRTGFHFQPVKNWMNDPNGPLYY
KGWYHFFYQYNPEGAVWGNIAWGHA VSRDLVHWTHLPLAMVPDQWYDINGVWT
GSATILPDGQIVMLYTGATNESVQVQNLA VPADQSDTLLLRWKKSEANPILVPPPGIG
DKDFRDPTTAWYEPSDDTWRIVIGSKDSSHSGIAIVYSTKDFINYKLIPGILHA VERVG
MWECVDFYPV ATADSSHANHGLDPSARPSPA VKHVLKASMDDDRHDYY AIGTYDP
AQNTWVPDDASVDVGIGLRYDWGKFYASKTFYDHAKKRRILWSWIGETDSETADIA
KGWASLQGVPRTVLLDVKTGSNLITWPVVEIESLRTRPRDFSGITVDAGSTFKLDVG
GAAQLDIEAEFKISSEELEA VKEADVSYNCSSSGGAAERGVLGPFGLLVLANQDLTE
QTATYFYVSRGMDGGLNTHFCQDEKRSSKASDIVKRIVGHSVPVLDGESFALRILVD
HSIVESFAQGGRASATSRVYPTEAIYNNARVFVFNNATGAKVTAQSLKVWHMSTAI
NEIYDPATSVM
SEQ IDNO: 26
Beta vulgaris subsp. vulgaris Invertase: Genbank Accession No. AJ278531
LFYQYNPNGVIWGPPVWGHSTSKDLVNWVPQPLTMEPEMAANINGSWSGSATILPG
NKPAILFTGLDPKYEQVQVLAYPKDTSDPNLKEWFLAPQNPVMFPTPQNQINATSFR
DPTTAWRLPDGVWRLLIGSKRGQRGLSLLFRSRDFVHWVQAKHPLYSDKLSGMWE
CPDFFPVYANGDQMGVDTSIIGSHVKHVLKNSLDITKHDIYTIGDYNIKKDA YTPDIG
YMNDSSLRYDYGKYY ASKTFFDDAKKERILLGWANESSSVEDDIKKGWSGIHTIPRK
IWLDKLGKQLIQWPIANIEKLRQKPVNIYRKVLKGGSQIEVSGITAAQADVEISFKIKD
LKNVEKFDASWTSPQLLCSKKGASVKGGLGPFGLLTLASXGLEEYTAVFFRIFKA YD
NKFVVLMCSDQSRSSLNPTNDKTTYGTFVDVNPIREGLSLRVLIDHSVVESFGAKGK
NVITARVYPTLAINEKAHLYVFNRGTSNVEITGLTAWSMKKANIA
SEQ IDNO: 27
Bifidobacterium breve UCC2003 beta-fructofuranosidase (invertase): Genbank Accession
No. AAT28190
MTDFTPETPVLTPIRDHAAELAKAEAGVAEMAAKRNNRWYPKYHIASNGGWINDPN
GLCFYKGRWHVFYQLHPYGTQWGPMHWGHVSSTDMLNWKREPIMFAPSLEQEKD
GVFSGSA VIDDNGDLRFYYTGHRW ANGHDNTGGDWQVQMTALPDNDELTSA TKQ
GMIIDCPTDKVDHHYRDPKVWKTGDTWYMTFGVSSEDKRGQMWLFSSKDMVRWE
YERVLFQHPDPDVFMLECPDFFPIKDKDGNEKWVIGFSAMGSKPSGFMNRNVNNAG
YMIGTWEPGGEFKPETEFRLWDCGHNYYAPQSFNVDGRQIVYGWMSPFVQPIPMED
DGWCGQLTLPREITLDDDGDVVTAPVAEMEGLREDTLDHGSITLDMDGEQVIADDA
EA VEIEMTIDLAASTADRAGLKIHATEDGAYTYVAYDDQIGRVVVDRQAMANGDH
GYRAAPLTDAELASGKLDLRVFVDRGSVEVYVNGGHQVLSSYSYASEGPRAIKLVA
EFGNLKVESLKLHHMKSIGLE
                                             219

SEQ IDNO: 28
Saccharomyces cerevisiae Invertase: Genbank Accession No. NP_012104
MLLQAFLFLLAGFAAKISASMTNETSDRPLVHFTPNKGWMNDPNGLWYDEKDAKW
HLYFQYNPNDTVWGTPLFWGHATSDDLTNWEDQPIAIAPKRNDSGAFSGSMVVDY
NNTSGFFNDTIDPRQRCV AIWTYNTPESEEQYISYSLDGGYTFTEYQKNPVLAANSTQ
FRDPKVFWYEPSQKWIMTAAKSQDYKIEIYSSDDLKSWKLESAFANEGFLGYQYECP
GLIEVPTEQDPSKSYWVMFISINPGAPAGGSFNQYFVGSFNGTHFEAFDNQSRVVDFG
KDYY ALQTFFNTDPTYGSALGIAWASNWEYSAFVPTNPWRSSMSLVRKFSLNTEYQ
ANPETELINLKAEPILNISNAGPWSRFATNTTLTKANSYNVDLSNSTGTLEFELVYAV
NTTQTISKSVFADLSLWFKGLEDPEEYLRMGFEVSASSFFLDRGNSKVKFVKENPYFT
NRMSVNNQPFKSENDLSYYKVYGLLDQNILELYFNDGDVVSTNTYFMTTGNALGSV
NMTTGVDNLFYIDKFQVREVK
SEQ IDNO: 29
Zymomonas mobilis Invertase A: Genbank Accession No. AYl 71597
MESPSYKNLIKAEDAQKKAGKRLLSSEWYPGFHVTPLTGWMNDPNGLIFFKGEYHL
FYQYYPFAPVWGPMHWGHAKSRDLVHWETLPV ALAPGDLFDRDGCFSGCA VDNN
GVLTLIYTGHIVLSNDSPDAIREVQCMATSIDGIHFQKEGIVLEKAPMPQVAHFRDPR
VWKENDHWFMVVGYRTDDEKHQGIGHVAL YRSENLKDWIFVKTLLGDNSQLPLGK
RAFMWECPDFFSLGNRSVLMFSPQGLKASGYKNRNLFQNGYILGKWQAPQFTPETS
FQELDYGHDFYAAQRFEAKDGRQILIAWFDMWENQKPSQRDGW AGCMTLPRKLDL
IDNKIVMTPVREMEILRQSEKIESVVTLSDAEHPFTMDSPLQEIELIFDLEKSSAYQAG
LALRCNGKGQETLLYIDRSQNRIILDRNRSGQNVKGIRSCPLPNTSKVRLHIFLDRSSIE
IFVGDDQTQGLYSISSRIFPDKDSLKGRLFAIEGYAVFDSFKRWTLQDANLAAFSSDA
c
SEQ IDNO: 30
Cinnamomum camphora FATB 1 (Genbank Q39473) amino acid sequence with Prototheca
moriformis delta 12 fatty acid desaturase transit peptide.
MAIKTNRQPVEKPPFTIGTLRKAIPAHCFERSALRGRAPDWSMLFAVITTIFSAAEKQ
WTNLEWKPKPNPPQLLDDHFGPHGLVFRRTFAIRSYEVGPDRSTSIVAVMNHLQEAA
LNHAKSVGILGDGFGTTLEMSKRDLIWVVKRTHVAVERYPAWGDTVEVECWVGAS
GNNGRRHDFLVRDCKTGEILTRCTSLSVMMNTRTRRLSKIPEEVRGEIGPAFIDNVAV
KDEEIKKPQKLNDSTADYIQGGLTPRWNDLDINQHVNNIKYVDWILETVPDSIFESHH
ISSFTIEYRRECTMDSVLQSLTTVSGGSSEAGLVCEHLLQLEGGSEVLRAKTEWRPKL
TDSFRGISVIPAESSV
SEQ IDNO: 31
Relevant codon optimized expression construct of Cinnamomum camphora FATB 1 cDNA
with Prototheca moriformis delta 12 fatty acid desaturase transit peptide.
GGTACCCGCCTGCAACGCAAGGGCAGCCACAGCCGCTCCCACCCGCCGCTGAAC
CGACACGTGCTTGGGCGCCTGCCGCCTGCCTGCCGCATGCTTGTGCTGGTGAGGC
TGGGCAGTGCTGCCATGCTGATTGAGGCTTGGTTCATCGGGTGGAAGCTTATGTG
TGTGCTGGGCTTGCATGCCGGGCAATGCGCATGGTGGCAAGAGGGCGGCAGCAC
TTGCTGGAGCTGCCGCGGTGCCTCCAGGTGGTTCAATCGCGGCAGCCAGAGGGA
                                              220

1TTCAGATGATCGCGCGTACAGGTTGAGCAGCAGTGTCAGCAAAGGTAGCAGT1T
GCCAGAATGATCGGTTCAGCTGTTAATCAATGCCAGCAAGAGAAGGGGTCAAGT
GCAAACACGGGCATGCCACAGCACGGGCACCGGGGAGTGGAATGGCACCACCA
AGTGTGTGCGAGCCAGCATCGCCGCCTGGCTGTTTCAGCTACAACGGCAGGAGTC
ATCCAACGTAACCATGAGCTGATCAACACTGCAATCATCGGGCGGGCGTGATGC
AAGCATGCCTGGCGAAGACACATGGTGTGCGGATGCTGCCGGCTGCTGCCTGCT
GCGCACGCCGTTGAGTTGGCAGCAGGCTCAGCCATGCACTGGATGGCAGCTGGG
CTGCCACTGCAATGTGGTGGATAGGATGCAAGTGGAGCGAATACCAAACCCTCT
GGCTGCTTGCTGGGTTGCATGGCATCGCACCATCAGCAGGAGCGCATGCGAAGG
GACTGGCCCCATGCACGCCATGCCAAACCGGAGCGCACCGAGTGTCCACACTGT
CACCAGGCCCGCAAGCTlTGCAGAACCATGCTCATGGACGCATGTAGCGCTGAC
GTCCCTTGACGGCGCTCCTCTCGGGTGTGGGAAACGCAATGCAGCACAGGCAGC
AGAGGCGGCGGCAGCAGAGCGGCGGCAGCAGCGGCGGGGGCCACCC1TC1TGCG
GGGTCGCGCCCCAGCCAGCGGTGATGCGCTGATCCCAAACGAGlTCACATTCATT
TGCATGCCTGGAGAAGCGAGGCTGGGGCC1TTGGGCTGGTGCAGCCCGCAATGG
AATGCGGGACCGCCAGGCTAGCAGCAAAGGCGCCTCCCCTACTCCGCATCGATG
1TCCATAGTGCATTGGACTGCAT1TGGGTGGGGCGGCCGGCTGT1TC1TTCGTGTT
GCAAAACGCGCCAGCTCAGCAACCTGTCCCGTGGGTCCCCCGTGCCGATGAAAT
CGTGTGCACGCCGATCAGCTGATTGCCCGGCTCGCGAAGTAGGCGCCCTCCTlTC
TGCTCGCCCTCTCTCCGTCCCGCCTCTAGAATATCAATGATCGAGCAGGACGGCC
TCCACGCCGGCTCCCCCGCCGCCTGGGTGGAGCGCCTGlTCGGCTACGACTGGGC
CCAGCAGACCATCGGCTGCTCCGACGCCGCCGTGTTCCGCCTGTCCGCCCAGGGC
CGCCCCGTGCTGlTCGTGAAGACCGACCTGTCCGGCGCCCTGAACGAGCTGCAGG
ACGAGGCCGCCCGCCTGTCCTGGCTGGCCACCACCGGCGTGCCCTGCGCCGCCGT
GCTGGACGTGGTGACCGAGGCCGGCCGCGACTGGCTGCTGCTGGGCGAGGTGCC
CGGCCAGGACCTGCTGTCCTCCCACCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGAAGGTGTCCATCATG
GCCGACGCCATGCGCCGCCTGCACACCCTGGACCCCGCCACCTGCCCCTTCGACC
ACCAGGCCAAGCACCGCATCGAGCGCGCCCGCACCCGCATGGAGGCCGGCCTGG
TGGACCAGGACGACCTGGACGAGGAGCACCAGGGCCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGCTGT
TCGCCCGCCTGAAGGCCCGCATGCCCGACGGCGAGGACCTGGTGGTGACCCACG
GCGACGCCTGCCTGCCCAACATCATGGTGGAGAACGGCCGClTCTCCGGCTTCAT
CGACTGCGGCCGCCTGGGCGTGGCCGACCGCTACCAGGACATCGCCCTGGCCAC
CCGCGACATCGCCGAGGAGCTGGGCGGCGAGTGGGCCGACCGCTTCCTGGTGCT
GTACGGCATCGCCGCCCCCGACTCCCAGCGCATCGCClTCTACCGCCTGCTGGAC
GAG1TCTTCTGACAA1TGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGAC
GCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGlTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATAT
CCCTGCCGC1TTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTG1TTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTT
TGCGAG1TGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTAT1TGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCC1TCC
CTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAAClTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCC
CTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTlTGGGCTC
CGCCTGTAlTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCA
CGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAGGATCCCGCGTCTCGAACAGAGC
GCGCAGAGGAACGCTGAAGGTCTCGCCTCTGTCGCACCTCAGCGCGGCATACAC
CACAATAACCACCTGACGAATGCGClTGGTTCTTCGTCCATTAGCGAAGCGTCCG
GlTCACACACGTGCCACGTTGGCGAGGTGGCAGGTGACAATGATCGGTGGAGCT
GATGGTCGAAACGTTCACAGCCTAGGGATATCGAATTCClTTCTTGCGCTATGAC
AClTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCA
ACACCGATGATGC1TCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCC1TCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCG
ATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGAC
A1TATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATA1TCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCAC1TCTAC
                            221

ACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTC1TCCTC1TC
G1TTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACACTAGTATGGCTATCAAGACGAACAGGCAGCC
TGTGGAGAAGCCTCCG1TCACGATCGGGACGCTGCGCAAGGCCATCCCCGCGCA
CTGT1TCGAGCGCTCGGCGCTTCGTGGGCGCGCCCCCGACTGGTCCATGCTG1TC
GCCGTGATCACCACCATCTTCTCCGCCGCCGAGAAGCAGTGGACCAACCTGGAGT
GGAAGCCCAAGCCCAACCCCCCCCAGCTGCTGGACGACCAC1TCGGCCCCCACG
GCCTGGTGTTCCGCCGCACC1TCGCCATCCGCAGCTACGAGGTGGGCCCCGACCG
CTCCACCAGCATCGTGGCCGTGATGAACCACCTGCAGGAGGCCGCCCTGAACCA
CGCCAAGTCCGTGGGCATCCTGGGCGACGGCTTCGGCACCACCCTGGAGATGTCC
AAGCGCGACCTGATCTGGGTGGTGAAGCGCACCCACGTGGCCGTGGAGCGCTAC
CCCGCCTGGGGCGACACCGTGGAGGTGGAGTGCTGGGTGGGCGCCTCCGGCAAC
AACGGCCGCCGCCACGACTTCCTGGTGCGCGACTGCAAGACCGGCGAGATCCTG
ACCCGCTGCACCTCCCTGAGCGTGATGATGAACACCCGCACCCGCCGCCTGAGCA
AGATCCCCGAGGAGGTGCGCGGCGAGATCGGCCCCGCCTTCATCGACAACGTGG
CCGTGAAGGACGAGGAGATCAAGAAGCCCCAGAAGCTGAACGACTCCACCGCCG
ACTACATCCAGGGCGGCCTGACCCCCCGCTGGAACGACCTGGACATCAACCAGC
ACGTGAACAACATCAAGTACGTGGACTGGATCCTGGAGACCGTGCCCGACAGCA
TCTTCGAGAGCCACCACATCTCCTCCTTCACCATCGAGTACCGCCGCGAGTGCAC
CATGGACAGCGTGCTGCAGTCCCTGACCACCGTGAGCGGCGGCTCCTCCGAGGC
CGGCCTGGTGTGCGAGCACCTGCTGCAGCTGGAGGGCGGCAGCGAGGTGCTGCG
CGCCAAGACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGCTGACCGACTCCTTCCGCGGCATCAGCGT
GATCCCCGCCGAGTCCAGCGTGATGGACTACAAGGACCACGACGGCGACTACAA
GGACCACGACATCGACTACAAGGACGACGACGACAAGTGATGACTCGAGGCAGC
AGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTG1TG
CCGCCACAC1TGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCT1TTATCAAACAGCC
TCAGTGTGTTTGATC1TGTGTGTACGCGCT1TTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGC1TGTGCT
A1TTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCC1TCCCTCGTTTCATATCGC1TGCATCCC
AACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCT
CACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCC1TGGT1TGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCA
ACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACA
CAAATGGAAAGCTT
SEQ IDNO: 32
Cuphea hookeriana FATB2 (Genbank AAC49269) amino acid sequence with Prototheca
moriformis delta 12 fatty acid desaturase transit peptide.
MAIKTNRQPVEKPPFTIGTLRKAIPAHCFERSALRGRAQLPDWSRLLTAITTVFVKSK
RPDMHDRKSKRPDMLVDSFGLESTVQDGLVFRQSFSIRSYEIGTDRTASIETLMNHLQ
ETSLNHCKSTGILLDGFGRTLEMCKRDLIWVVIKMQIKVNRYPAWGDTVEINTRFSR
LGKIGMGRDWLISDCNTGEILVRATSAYAMMNQKTRRLSKLPYEVHQEIVPLFVDSP
VIEDSDLKVHKFKVKTGDSIQKGLTPGWNDLDVNQHVSNVKYIGWILESMPTEVLET
QELCSLALEYRRECGRDSVLESVTAMDPSKVGVRSQYQHLLRLEDGTAIVNGATEW
RPKNAGANGAISTGKTSNGNSVS
SEQ IDNO: 33
Relevant codon optimized expression construct of Cuphea hookeriana FATB2 cDNA with
Prototheca moriformis delta 12 fatty acid desaturase transit peptide.
GGTACCCGCCTGCAACGCAAGGGCAGCCACAGCCGCTCCCACCCGCCGCTGAAC
CGACACGTGCTTGGGCGCCTGCCGCCTGCCTGCCGCATGCTTGTGCTGGTGAGGC
                                              222

TGGGCAGTGCTGCCATGCTGA1TGAGGCTTGGTTCATCGGGTGGAAGCTTATGTG
TGTGCTGGGC1TGCATGCCGGGCAATGCGCATGGTGGCAAGAGGGCGGCAGCAC
1TGCTGGAGCTGCCGCGGTGCCTCCAGGTGG1TCAATCGCGGCAGCCAGAGGGA
1TTCAGATGATCGCGCGTACAGGTTGAGCAGCAGTGTCAGCAAAGGTAGCAGT1T
GCCAGAATGATCGGTTCAGCTGTTAATCAATGCCAGCAAGAGAAGGGGTCAAGT
GCAAACACGGGCATGCCACAGCACGGGCACCGGGGAGTGGAATGGCACCACCA
AGTGTGTGCGAGCCAGCATCGCCGCCTGGCTGTTTCAGCTACAACGGCAGGAGTC
ATCCAACGTAACCATGAGCTGATCAACACTGCAATCATCGGGCGGGCGTGATGC
AAGCATGCCTGGCGAAGACACATGGTGTGCGGATGCTGCCGGCTGCTGCCTGCT
GCGCACGCCGTTGAGTTGGCAGCAGGCTCAGCCATGCACTGGATGGCAGCTGGG
CTGCCACTGCAATGTGGTGGATAGGATGCAAGTGGAGCGAATACCAAACCCTCT
GGCTGCTTGCTGGGTTGCATGGCATCGCACCATCAGCAGGAGCGCATGCGAAGG
GACTGGCCCCATGCACGCCATGCCAAACCGGAGCGCACCGAGTGTCCACACTGT
CACCAGGCCCGCAAGCT1TGCAGAACCATGCTCATGGACGCATGTAGCGCTGAC
GTCCCTTGACGGCGCTCCTCTCGGGTGTGGGAAACGCAATGCAGCACAGGCAGC
AGAGGCGGCGGCAGCAGAGCGGCGGCAGCAGCGGCGGGGGCCACCC1TC1TGCG
GGGTCGCGCCCCAGCCAGCGGTGATGCGCTGATCCCAAACGAG1TCACATTCATT
TGCATGCCTGGAGAAGCGAGGCTGGGGCC1TTGGGCTGGTGCAGCCCGCAATGG
AATGCGGGACCGCCAGGCTAGCAGCAAAGGCGCCTCCCCTACTCCGCATCGATG
1TCCATAGTGCATTGGACTGCAT1TGGGTGGGGCGGCCGGCTGT1TC1TTCGTGTT
GCAAAACGCGCCAGCTCAGCAACCTGTCCCGTGGGTCCCCCGTGCCGATGAAAT
CGTGTGCACGCCGATCAGCTGATTGCCCGGCTCGCGAAGTAGGCGCCCTCCT1TC
TGCTCGCCCTCTCTCCGTCCCGCCTCTAGAATATCAATGATCGAGCAGGACGGCC
TCCACGCCGGCTCCCCCGCCGCCTGGGTGGAGCGCCTGTTCGGCTACGACTGGGC
CCAGCAGACCATCGGCTGCTCCGACGCCGCCGTGTTCCGCCTGTCCGCCCAGGGC
CGCCCCGTGCTG1TCGTGAAGACCGACCTGTCCGGCGCCCTGAACGAGCTGCAGG
ACGAGGCCGCCCGCCTGTCCTGGCTGGCCACCACCGGCGTGCCCTGCGCCGCCGT
GCTGGACGTGGTGACCGAGGCCGGCCGCGACTGGCTGCTGCTGGGCGAGGTGCC
CGGCCAGGACCTGCTGTCCTCCCACCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGAAGGTGTCCATCATG
GCCGACGCCATGCGCCGCCTGCACACCCTGGACCCCGCCACCTGCCCCTTCGACC
ACCAGGCCAAGCACCGCATCGAGCGCGCCCGCACCCGCATGGAGGCCGGCCTGG
TGGACCAGGACGACCTGGACGAGGAGCACCAGGGCCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGCTGT
TCGCCCGCCTGAAGGCCCGCATGCCCGACGGCGAGGACCTGGTGGTGACCCACG
GCGACGCCTGCCTGCCCAACATCATGGTGGAGAACGGCCGC1TCTCCGGCTTCAT
CGACTGCGGCCGCCTGGGCGTGGCCGACCGCTACCAGGACATCGCCCTGGCCAC
CCGCGACATCGCCGAGGAGCTGGGCGGCGAGTGGGCCGACCGCTTCCTGGTGCT
GTACGGCATCGCCGCCCCCGACTCCCAGCGCATCGCC1TCTACCGCCTGCTGGAC
GAG1TCTTCTGACAA1TGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGAC
GCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTG1TGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATAT
CCCTGCCGC1TTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTG1TTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTT
TGCGAG1TGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTAT1TGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCC1TCC
CTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAAC1TATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCC
CTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGT1TGGGCTC
CGCCTGTA1TCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCA
CGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAGGATCCCGCGTCTCGAACAGAGC
GCGCAGAGGAACGCTGAAGGTCTCGCCTCTGTCGCACCTCAGCGCGGCATACAC
CACAATAACCACCTGACGAATGCGC1TGGTTCTTCGTCCATTAGCGAAGCGTCCG
G1TCACACACGTGCCACGTTGGCGAGGTGGCAGGTGACAATGATCGGTGGAGCT
GATGGTCGAAACGTTCACAGCCTAGGGATATCGAATTCC1TTCTTGCGCTATGAC
AC1TCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCA
                            223

ACACCGATGATGC1TCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCC1TCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCG
ATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGAC
ATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTAC
ACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTC1TCCTC1TC
GTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACACTAGTATGGCTATCAAGACGAACAGGCAGCC
TGTGGAGAAGCCTCCGTTCACGATCGGGACGCTGCGCAAGGCCATCCCCGCGCA
CTGT1TCGAGCGCTCGGCGCTTCGTGGGCGCGCCCAGCTGCCCGACTGGAGCCGC
CTGCTGACCGCCATCACCACCGTGTTCGTGAAGTCCAAGCGCCCCGACATGCACG
ACCGCAAGTCCAAGCGCCCCGACATGCTGGTGGACAGCTTCGGCCTGGAGTCCA
CCGTGCAGGACGGCCTGGTGTTCCGCCAGTCCTTCTCCATCCGCTCCTACGAGAT
CGGCACCGACCGCACCGCCAGCATCGAGACCCTGATGAACCACCTGCAGGAGAC
CTCCCTGAACCACTGCAAGAGCACCGGCATCCTGCTGGACGGCTTCGGCCGCACC
CTGGAGATGTGCAAGCGCGACCTGATCTGGGTGGTGATCAAGATGCAGATCAAG
GTGAACCGCTACCCCGCCTGGGGCGACACCGTGGAGATCAACACCCGCTTCAGC
CGCCTGGGCAAGATCGGCATGGGCCGCGACTGGCTGATCTCCGACTGCAACACC
GGCGAGATCCTGGTGCGCGCCACCAGCGCCTACGCCATGATGAACCAGAAGACC
CGCCGCCTGTCCAAGCTGCCCTACGAGGTGCACCAGGAGATCGTGCCCCTGTTCG
TGGACAGCCCCGTGATCGAGGACTCCGACCTGAAGGTGCACAAG1TCAAGGTGA
AGACCGGCGACAGCATCCAGAAGGGCCTGACCCCCGGCTGGAACGACCTGGACG
TGAACCAGCACGTGTCCAACGTGAAGTACATCGGCTGGATCCTGGAGAGCATGC
CCACCGAGGTGCTGGAGACCCAGGAGCTGTGCTCCCTGGCCCTGGAGTACCGCC
GCGAGTGCGGCCGCGACTCCGTGCTGGAGAGCGTGACCGCCATGGACCCCAGCA
AGGTGGGCGTGCGCTCCCAGTACCAGCACCTGCTGCGCCTGGAGGACGGCACCG
CCATCGTGAACGGCGCCACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGAACGCCGGCGCCAACGGCG
CCATCTCCACCGGCAAGACCAGCAACGGCAACTCCGTGTCCATGGACTACAAGG
ACCACGACGGCGACTACAAGGACCACGACATCGACTACAAGGACGACGACGAC
AAGTGACTCGAGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGG
TCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGC
CGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAG
TTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTT
TCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGC
GCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTG
TATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAA
GTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTT
SEQ IDNO: 34
Umbellularia californica FATB 1 (Genbank Q41635) amino acid sequence with Prototheca
moriformis delta 12 fatty acid desaturase transit peptide.
MAIKTNRQPVEKPPFTIGTLRKAIPAHCFERSALRGRAPDWSMLFAVITTIFSAAEKQ
WTNLEWKPKPKLPQLLDDHFGLHGLVFRRTFAIRSYEVGPDRSTSILAVMNHMQEA
TLNHAKSVGILGDGFGTTLEMSKRDLMWVVRRTHVAVERYPTWGDTVEVECWIGA
SGNNGMRRDFLVRDCKTGEILTRCTSLSVLMNTRTRRLSTIPDEVRGEIGPAFIDNVA
VKDDEIKKLQKLNDSTADYIQGGLTPRWNDLDVNQHVNNLKYVAWVFETVPDSIFE
SHHISSFTLEYRRECTRDSVLRSLTTVSGGSSEAGLVCDHLLQLEGGSEVLRARTEWR
PKLTDSFRGISVIPAEPRV
SEQ ID NO: 35
Relevant codon optimized expression construct of Umbellularia californica FATBl cDNA
with Prototheca moriformis delta 12 fatty acid desaturase transit peptide.
                                              224

GGTACCCGCCTGCAACGCAAGGGCAGCCACAGCCGCTCCCACCCGCCGCTGAAC
CGACACGTGCTTGGGCGCCTGCCGCCTGCCTGCCGCATGCTTGTGCTGGTGAGGC
TGGGCAGTGCTGCCATGCTGATTGAGGCTTGGTTCATCGGGTGGAAGCTTATGTG
TGTGCTGGGCTTGCATGCCGGGCAATGCGCATGGTGGCAAGAGGGCGGCAGCAC
TTGCTGGAGCTGCCGCGGTGCCTCCAGGTGGTTCAATCGCGGCAGCCAGAGGGA
TTTCAGATGATCGCGCGTACAGGTTGAGCAGCAGTGTCAGCAAAGGTAGCAGTTT
GCCAGAATGATCGGTTCAGCTGTTAATCAATGCCAGCAAGAGAAGGGGTCAAGT
GCAAACACGGGCATGCCACAGCACGGGCACCGGGGAGTGGAATGGCACCACCA
AGTGTGTGCGAGCCAGCATCGCCGCCTGGCTGTTTCAGCTACAACGGCAGGAGTC
ATCCAACGTAACCATGAGCTGATCAACACTGCAATCATCGGGCGGGCGTGATGC
AAGCATGCCTGGCGAAGACACATGGTGTGCGGATGCTGCCGGCTGCTGCCTGCT
GCGCACGCCGTTGAGTTGGCAGCAGGCTCAGCCATGCACTGGATGGCAGCTGGG
CTGCCACTGCAATGTGGTGGATAGGATGCAAGTGGAGCGAATACCAAACCCTCT
GGCTGCTTGCTGGGTTGCATGGCATCGCACCATCAGCAGGAGCGCATGCGAAGG
GACTGGCCCCATGCACGCCATGCCAAACCGGAGCGCACCGAGTGTCCACACTGT
CACCAGGCCCGCAAGCTTTGCAGAACCATGCTCATGGACGCATGTAGCGCTGAC
GTCCCTTGACGGCGCTCCTCTCGGGTGTGGGAAACGCAATGCAGCACAGGCAGC
AGAGGCGGCGGCAGCAGAGCGGCGGCAGCAGCGGCGGGGGCCACCCTTCTTGCG
GGGTCGCGCCCCAGCCAGCGGTGATGCGCTGATCCCAAACGAGTTCACATTCATT
TGCATGCCTGGAGAAGCGAGGCTGGGGCCTTTGGGCTGGTGCAGCCCGCAATGG
AATGCGGGACCGCCAGGCTAGCAGCAAAGGCGCCTCCCCTACTCCGCATCGATG
TTCCATAGTGCATTGGACTGCATTTGGGTGGGGCGGCCGGCTGTTTCTTTCGTGTT
GCAAAACGCGCCAGCTCAGCAACCTGTCCCGTGGGTCCCCCGTGCCGATGAAAT
CGTGTGCACGCCGATCAGCTGATTGCCCGGCTCGCGAAGTAGGCGCCCTCCTTTC
TGCTCGCCCTCTCTCCGTCCCGCCTCTAGAATATCAATGATCGAGCAGGACGGCC
TCCACGCCGGCTCCCCCGCCGCCTGGGTGGAGCGCCTGTTCGGCTACGACTGGGC
CCAGCAGACCATCGGCTGCTCCGACGCCGCCGTGTTCCGCCTGTCCGCCCAGGGC
CGCCCCGTGCTGTTCGTGAAGACCGACCTGTCCGGCGCCCTGAACGAGCTGCAGG
ACGAGGCCGCCCGCCTGTCCTGGCTGGCCACCACCGGCGTGCCCTGCGCCGCCGT
GCTGGACGTGGTGACCGAGGCCGGCCGCGACTGGCTGCTGCTGGGCGAGGTGCC
CGGCCAGGACCTGCTGTCCTCCCACCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGAAGGTGTCCATCATG
GCCGACGCCATGCGCCGCCTGCACACCCTGGACCCCGCCACCTGCCCCTTCGACC
ACCAGGCCAAGCACCGCATCGAGCGCGCCCGCACCCGCATGGAGGCCGGCCTGG
TGGACCAGGACGACCTGGACGAGGAGCACCAGGGCCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGCTGT
TCGCCCGCCTGAAGGCCCGCATGCCCGACGGCGAGGACCTGGTGGTGACCCACG
GCGACGCCTGCCTGCCCAACATCATGGTGGAGAACGGCCGCTTCTCCGGCTTCAT
CGACTGCGGCCGCCTGGGCGTGGCCGACCGCTACCAGGACATCGCCCTGGCCAC
CCGCGACATCGCCGAGGAGCTGGGCGGCGAGTGGGCCGACCGCTTCCTGGTGCT
GTACGGCATCGCCGCCCCCGACTCCCAGCGCATCGCCTTCTACCGCCTGCTGGAC
GAGTTCTTCTGACAATTGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGAC
GCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATAT
CCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTT
TGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCC
CTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCC
CTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTC
CGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCA
CGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAGGATCCCGCGTCTCGAACAGAGC
GCGCAGAGGAACGCTGAAGGTCTCGCCTCTGTCGCACCTCAGCGCGGCATACAC
CACAATAACCACCTGACGAATGCGCTTGGTTCTTCGTCCATTAGCGAAGCGTCCG
                            225

GTTCACACACGTGCCACGTTGGCGAGGTGGCAGGTGACAATGATCGGTGGAGCT
GATGGTCGAAACGTTCACAGCCTAGGGATATCGAATTCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGAC
ACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCA
ACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCG
ATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGAC
ATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTAC
ACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTC
GTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACACTAGTATGGCTATCAAGACGAACAGGCAGCC
TGTGGAGAAGCCTCCGTTCACGATCGGGACGCTGCGCAAGGCCATCCCCGCGCA
CTGTTTCGAGCGCTCGGCGCTTCGTGGGCGCGCCCCCGACTGGTCCATGCTGTTC
GCCGTGATCACCACCATCTTCAGCGCCGCCGAGAAGCAGTGGACCAACCTGGAG
TGGAAGCCCAAGCCCAAGCTGCCCCAGCTGCTGGACGACCACTTCGGCCTGCAC
GGCCTGGTGTTCCGCCGCACCTTCGCCATCCGCTCCTACGAGGTGGGCCCCGACC
GCAGCACCTCCATCCTGGCCGTGATGAACCACATGCAGGAGGCCACCCTGAACC
ACGCCAAGAGCGTGGGCATCCTGGGCGACGGCTTCGGCACCACCCTGGAGATGT
CCAAGCGCGACCTGATGTGGGTGGTGCGCCGCACCCACGTGGCCGTGGAGCGCT
ACCCCACCTGGGGCGACACCGTGGAGGTGGAGTGCTGGATCGGCGCCAGCGGCA
ACAACGGCATGCGCCGCGACTTCCTGGTGCGCGACTGCAAGACCGGCGAGATCC
TGACCCGCTGCACCTCCCTGAGCGTGCTGATGAACACCCGCACCCGCCGCCTGAG
CACCATCCCCGACGAGGTGCGCGGCGAGATCGGCCCCGCCTTCATCGACAACGT
GGCCGTGAAGGACGACGAGATCAAGAAGCTGCAGAAGCTGAACGACTCCACCGC
CGACTACATCCAGGGCGGCCTGACCCCCCGCTGGAACGACCTGGACGTGAACCA
GCACGTGAACAACCTGAAGTACGTGGCCTGGGTGTTCGAGACCGTGCCCGACAG
CATCTTCGAGTCCCACCACATCAGCTCCTTCACCCTGGAGTACCGCCGCGAGTGC
ACCCGCGACTCCGTGCTGCGCAGCCTGACCACCGTGAGCGGCGGCAGCTCCGAG
GCCGGCCTGGTGTGCGACCACCTGCTGCAGCTGGAGGGCGGCAGCGAGGTGCTG
CGCGCCCGCACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGCTGACCGACTCCTTCCGCGGCATCAGC
GTGATCCCCGCCGAGCCCCGCGTGATGGACTACAAGGACCACGACGGCGACTAC
AAGGACCACGACATCGACTACAAGGACGACGACGACAAGTGATGACTCGAGGC
AGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACT
GTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAAC
AGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTG
TGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCA
TCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCC
TGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTAC
TGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGG
AACACAAATGGAAAGCTT
SEQ IDNO: 36
Cuphea palustris C8 preferring thioesterase (Genbank AAC49179) amino acid sequence with
Prototheca moriformis delta 12 fatty acid desaturase transit peptide.
MAIKTNRQPVEKPPFTIGTLRKAIPAHCFERSALRGRAP ANGSAVTLKSGSLNTQEDT
LSSSPPPRAFFNQLPDWSMLLTAITTVFVAPEKRWTMFDRKSKRPNMLMDSFGLERV
VQDGLVFRQSFSIRSYEICADRTASIETVMNHVQETSLNQCKSIGLLDDGFGRSPEMC
KRDLIWVVTRMKIMVNRYPTWGDTIEVSTWLSQSGKIGMGRDWLISDCNTGEILVR
ATSVYAMMNQKTRRFSKLPHEVRQEFAPHFLDSPPAIEDNDGKLQKFDVKTGDSIRK
GLTPGWYDLDVNQHVSNVKYIGWILESMPTEVLETQELCSLTLEYRRECGRDSVLES
VTSMDPSKVGDRFQYRHLLRLEDGADIMKGRTEWRPKNAGTNGAISTGKT
                                             226

SEQ IDNO: 37
Relevant codon optimized expression construct of Cuphea palustris CS preferring
thioesterase cDNA with Prototheca moriformis delta 12 fatty acid desaturase transit peptide.
GGTACCCGCCTGCAACGCAAGGGCAGCCACAGCCGCTCCCACCCGCCGCTGAAC
CGACACGTGCTTGGGCGCCTGCCGCCTGCCTGCCGCATGCTTGTGCTGGTGAGGC
TGGGCAGTGCTGCCATGCTGATTGAGGCTTGGTTCATCGGGTGGAAGCTTATGTG
TGTGCTGGGCTTGCATGCCGGGCAATGCGCATGGTGGCAAGAGGGCGGCAGCAC
TTGCTGGAGCTGCCGCGGTGCCTCCAGGTGGTTCAATCGCGGCAGCCAGAGGGA
TTTCAGATGATCGCGCGTACAGGTTGAGCAGCAGTGTCAGCAAAGGTAGCAGTTT
GCCAGAATGATCGGTTCAGCTGTTAATCAATGCCAGCAAGAGAAGGGGTCAAGT
GCAAACACGGGCATGCCACAGCACGGGCACCGGGGAGTGGAATGGCACCACCA
AGTGTGTGCGAGCCAGCATCGCCGCCTGGCTGTTTCAGCTACAACGGCAGGAGTC
ATCCAACGTAACCATGAGCTGATCAACACTGCAATCATCGGGCGGGCGTGATGC
AAGCATGCCTGGCGAAGACACATGGTGTGCGGATGCTGCCGGCTGCTGCCTGCT
GCGCACGCCGTTGAGTTGGCAGCAGGCTCAGCCATGCACTGGATGGCAGCTGGG
CTGCCACTGCAATGTGGTGGATAGGATGCAAGTGGAGCGAATACCAAACCCTCT
GGCTGCTTGCTGGGTTGCATGGCATCGCACCATCAGCAGGAGCGCATGCGAAGG
GACTGGCCCCATGCACGCCATGCCAAACCGGAGCGCACCGAGTGTCCACACTGT
CACCAGGCCCGCAAGCTTTGCAGAACCATGCTCATGGACGCATGTAGCGCTGAC
GTCCCTTGACGGCGCTCCTCTCGGGTGTGGGAAACGCAATGCAGCACAGGCAGC
AGAGGCGGCGGCAGCAGAGCGGCGGCAGCAGCGGCGGGGGCCACCCTTCTTGCG
GGGTCGCGCCCCAGCCAGCGGTGATGCGCTGATCCCAAACGAGTTCACATTCATT
TGCATGCCTGGAGAAGCGAGGCTGGGGCCTTTGGGCTGGTGCAGCCCGCAATGG
AATGCGGGACCGCCAGGCTAGCAGCAAAGGCGCCTCCCCTACTCCGCATCGATG
TTCCATAGTGCATTGGACTGCATTTGGGTGGGGCGGCCGGCTGTTTCTTTCGTGTT
GCAAAACGCGCCAGCTCAGCAACCTGTCCCGTGGGTCCCCCGTGCCGATGAAAT
CGTGTGCACGCCGATCAGCTGATTGCCCGGCTCGCGAAGTAGGCGCCCTCCTTTC
TGCTCGCCCTCTCTCCGTCCCGCCTCTAGAATATCAATGATCGAGCAGGACGGCC
TCCACGCCGGCTCCCCCGCCGCCTGGGTGGAGCGCCTGTTCGGCTACGACTGGGC
CCAGCAGACCATCGGCTGCTCCGACGCCGCCGTGTTCCGCCTGTCCGCCCAGGGC
CGCCCCGTGCTGTTCGTGAAGACCGACCTGTCCGGCGCCCTGAACGAGCTGCAGG
ACGAGGCCGCCCGCCTGTCCTGGCTGGCCACCACCGGCGTGCCCTGCGCCGCCGT
GCTGGACGTGGTGACCGAGGCCGGCCGCGACTGGCTGCTGCTGGGCGAGGTGCC
CGGCCAGGACCTGCTGTCCTCCCACCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGAAGGTGTCCATCATG
GCCGACGCCATGCGCCGCCTGCACACCCTGGACCCCGCCACCTGCCCCTTCGACC
ACCAGGCCAAGCACCGCATCGAGCGCGCCCGCACCCGCATGGAGGCCGGCCTGG
TGGACCAGGACGACCTGGACGAGGAGCACCAGGGCCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGCTGT
TCGCCCGCCTGAAGGCCCGCATGCCCGACGGCGAGGACCTGGTGGTGACCCACG
GCGACGCCTGCCTGCCCAACATCATGGTGGAGAACGGCCGCTTCTCCGGCTTCAT
CGACTGCGGCCGCCTGGGCGTGGCCGACCGCTACCAGGACATCGCCCTGGCCAC
CCGCGACATCGCCGAGGAGCTGGGCGGCGAGTGGGCCGACCGCTTCCTGGTGCT
GTACGGCATCGCCGCCCCCGACTCCCAGCGCATCGCCTTCTACCGCCTGCTGGAC
GAGTTCTTCTGACAATTGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGAC
GCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATAT
CCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTT
TGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCC
CTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCC
CTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTC
CGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCA
                                           227

CGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAGGATCCCGCGTCTCGAACAGAGC
GCGCAGAGGAACGCTGAAGGTCTCGCCTCTGTCGCACCTCAGCGCGGCATACAC
CACAATAACCACCTGACGAATGCGCTTGGTTCTTCGTCCATTAGCGAAGCGTCCG
GTTCACACACGTGCCACGTTGGCGAGGTGGCAGGTGACAATGATCGGTGGAGCT
GATGGTCGAAACGTTCACAGCCTAGGGATATCGAATTCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGAC
ACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCA
ACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCG
ATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGAC
ATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTAC
ACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTC
GTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACACTAGTATGGCTATCAAGACGAACAGGCAGCC
TGTGGAGAAGCCTCCGTTCACGATCGGGACGCTGCGCAAGGCCATCCCCGCGCA
CTGTTTCGAGCGCTCGGCGCTTCGTGGGCGCGCCCCCGCGAACGGCAGCGCGGTG
ACCCTGAAGTCGGGCTCCCTGAACACCCAGGAGGACACGCTGAGCTCGTCCCCC
CCCCCCCGCGCGTTCTTCAACCAGCTGCCCGACTGGAGCATGCTGCTGACCGCGA
TCACCACGGTCTTCGTGGCGCCCGAGAAGCGCTGGACCATGTTCGACCGCAAGTC
GAAGCGCCCCAACATGCTGATGGACTCCTTCGGCCTGGAGCGCGTGGTCCAGGA
CGGCCTGGTGTTCCGCCAGAGCTTCTCGATCCGCTCCTACGAGATCTGCGCGGAC
CGCACCGCGAGCATCGAGACGGTGATGAACCACGTCCAGGAGACCTCGCTGAAC
CAGTGCAAGTCCATCGGCCTGCTGGACGACGGCTTCGGCCGCAGCCCCGAGATG
TGCAAGCGCGACCTGATCTGGGTGGTCACCCGCATGAAGATCATGGTGAACCGC
TACCCCACGTGGGGCGACACCATCGAGGTCTCGACGTGGCTGTCCCAGAGCGGC
AAGATCGGCATGGGCCGCGACTGGCTGATCTCGGACTGCAACACCGGCGAGATC
CTGGTGCGCGCGACGTCCGTCTACGCGATGATGAACCAGAAGACCCGCCGCTTC
AGCAAGCTGCCCCACGAGGTGCGCCAGGAGTTCGCGCCCCACTTCCTGGACTCGC
CCCCCGCGATCGAGGACAACGACGGCAAGCTGCAGAAGTTCGACGTCAAGACGG
GCGACTCCATCCGCAAGGGCCTGACCCCCGGCTGGTACGACCTGGACGTGAACC
AGCACGTGAGCAACGTCAAGTACATCGGCTGGATCCTGGAGTCGATGCCCACCG
AGGTCCTGGAGACGCAGGAGCTGTGCTCCCTGACCCTGGAGTACCGCCGCGAGT
GCGGCCGCGACTCGGTGCTGGAGAGCGTCACCAGCATGGACCCCTCGAAGGTGG
GCGACCGCTTCCAGTACCGCCACCTGCTGCGCCTGGAGGACGGCGCGGACATCA
TGAAGGGCCGCACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGAACGCGGGCACGAACGGCGCGATCT
CCACCGGCAAGACGTGACTCGAGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACT
CTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGT
GAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACG
CGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCC
CCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTG
CTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTT
GGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCT
GATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTTGAGCTC
SEQ IDNO: 38
Cuphea lanceolata ClO preferring thioesterase (Genbank CAB60830) amino acid sequence
with Prototheca moriformis delta 12 fatty acid desaturase transit peptide.
MAIKTNRQPVEKPPFTIGTLRKAIPAHCFERSALRGRAP ANG SAVNLKSGSLNTQEDT
SSSPPPRAFLNQLPDWSMLLTAITTVFVAAEKQWTMLDRKSKRPDMLVDSVGLKSIV
RDGLVSRQSFLIRSYEIGADRTASIETLMNHLQETSINHCKSLGLLNDGFGRTPGMCK
NDLIWVLTKMQIMVNRYPTWGDTVEINTWFSQSGKIGMASDWLISDCNTGEILIRAT
SVWAMMNQKTRRFSRLPYEVRQELTPHFVDSPHVIEDNDQKLHKFDVKTGDSIRKG
                                             228

LTPRWNDLDVNQHVSNVKYIGWILESMPIEVLETQELCSLTVEYRRECGMDSVLESV
TAVDPSENGGRSQYKHLLRLEDGTDIVKSRTEWRPKNAGTNGAISTSTAKTSNGNSA
SDDDDKLG
SEQ IDNO: 39
Relevant codon optimized coding region of Cuphea lanceolata CIO preferring thioesterase
with Prototheca moriformis delta 12 fatty acid desaturase transit peptide.
ACTAGTATGGCTATCAAGACGAACAGGCAGCCTGTGGAGAAGCCTCCGTTCACG
ATCGGGACGCTGCGCAAGGCCATCCCCGCGCACTGTTTCGAGCGCTCGGCGCTTC
GTGGGCGCGCCCCCGCGAACGGCAGCGCGGTGAACCTGAAGTCGGGCTCCCTGA
ACACCCAGGAGGACACGAGCTCGTCCCCCCCCCCCCGCGCGTTCCTGAACCAGCT
GCCCGACTGGAGCATGCTGCTGACCGCGATCACCACCGTCTTCGTGGCGGCGGA
GAAGCAGTGGACGATGCTGGACCGCAAGTCGAAGCGCCCCGACATGCTGGTGGA
CTCCGTCGGCCTGAAGAGCATCGTGCGCGACGGCCTGGTCTCGCGCCAGTCCTTC
CTGATCCGCAGCTACGAGATCGGCGCGGACCGCACCGCGTCGATCGAGACCCTG
ATGAACCACCTGCAGGAGACGTCCATCAACCACTGCAAGAGCCTGGGCCTGCTG
AACGACGGCTTCGGCCGCACCCCCGGCATGTGCAAGAACGACCTGATCTGGGTG
CTGACCAAGATGCAGATCATGGTCAACCGCTACCCCACGTGGGGCGACACCGTC
GAGATCAACACGTGGTTCTCGCAGTCCGGCAAGATCGGCATGGCGAGCGACTGG
CTGATCTCGGACTGCAACACCGGCGAGATCCTGATCCGCGCGACCTCCGTGTGGG
CGATGATGAACCAGAAGACGCGCCGCTTCAGCCGCCTGCCCTACGAGGTCCGCC
AGGAGCTGACCCCCCACTTCGTGGACTCGCCCCACGTCATCGAGGACAACGACC
AGAAGCTGCACAAGTTCGACGTGAAGACCGGCGACTCCATCCGCAAGGGCCTGA
CGCCCCGCTGGAACGACCTGGACGTCAACCAGCACGTGTCGAACGTGAAGTACA
TCGGCTGGATCCTGGAGTCCATGCCCATCGAGGTCCTGGAGACCCAGGAGCTGTG
CTCGCTGACCGTGGAGTACCGCCGCGAGTGCGGCATGGACTCCGTGCTGGAGTC
GGTCACGGCGGTGGACCCCAGCGAGAACGGCGGCCGCAGCCAGTACAAGCACCT
GCTGCGCCTGGAGGACGGCACCGACATCGTCAAGTCGCGCACCGAGTGGCGCCC
CAAGAACGCGGGCACGAACGGCGCGATCTCCACCAGCACCGCGAAGACGTCGAA
CGGCAACTCCGCGAGCGATGACGATGACAAGCTGGGATGACTCGAG
SEQ IDNO: 40
Iris germanica Cl4 preferring thioesterase (Genbank AAG43858.l) amino acid sequence
with Chlorella protothecoides stearoyl ACP desaturase chloroplast transit peptide.
MATASTFSAFNARCGDLRRSAGSGPRRPARPLPVRGRAAQAATRVNGSKVGLKTDT
NKLEDAPFIPSSAPRTFYNQLPDWSVLLAAITTIFLAAEKQWTLIDWKRGGPDMLSDA
FGLPKIIENGLLYRQKFSIRSYEIGADQTASIETLMNHLQETALNHVKCAGLLGNGFG
STPEMSKMNLIWVVTKMQVLVEHYPSWGDVIEVDTWAAASGKNGMRRDWHVRD
WQTGQTIMRASSNWVMMNQNTRRLSKFPEEVRAEIEPYFMERAPVIDDDNRKLPKL
DDDTADHVRNGLTPRWSDLDVNQHVKNVKYIGWILESAPISILESHELASMTLEYRR
ECGRDSVLQSLTSVSNNCTDGSEELPIECQHLLRNEGGSEIVKGRTEWRPKKCGPFGA
GRP
SEQ IDNO: 41
Relevant codon optimized coding region of Iris germanica Cl4 preferring thioesterase with
Chiarella protothecoides stearoyl ACP desaturase transit peptide.
                                             229

ACTAGTATGGCCACCGCATCCAC1TTCTCGGCGTTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACC
TGCGTCGCTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCG
CGGGCGCGCCGCCCAGGCGGCCACCCGCGTGAACGGCAGCAAGGTGGGCCTGAA
GACCGACACCAACAAGCTGGAGGACGCGCCC1TCATCCCCTCGTCCGCCCCCCGC
ACC1TCTACAACCAGCTGCCCGACTGGAGCGTCCTGCTGGCGGCCATCACCACCA
TCTTCCTGGCGGCCGAGAAGCAGTGGACCCTGATCGACTGGAAGCGCGGCGGCC
CCGACATGCTGTCGGACGCG1TCGGCCTGCCCAAGATCATCGAGAACGGCCTGCT
GTACCGCCAGAAGTTCTCCATCCGCAGCTACGAGATCGGCGCCGACCAGACCGC
CTCGATCGAGACCCTGATGAACCACCTGCAGGAGACCGCGCTGAACCACGTCAA
GTGCGCCGGCCTGCTGGGCAACGGC1TCGGCTCCACCCCCGAGATGAGCAAGAT
GAACCTGATCTGGGTGGTCACCAAGATGCAGGTGCTGGTCGAGCACTACCCCTCG
TGGGGCGACGTGATCGAGGTGGACACCTGGGCGGCCGCGTCCGGCAAGAACGGC
ATGCGCCGCGACTGGCACGTCCGCGACTGGCAGACCGGCCAGACCATCATGCGC
GCCAGCTCGAACTGGGTGATGATGAACCAGAACACCCGCCGCCTGTCCAAGTTC
CCCGAGGAGGTCCGCGCCGAGATCGAGCCCTACTTCATGGAGCGCGCCCCCGTG
ATCGACGACGACAACCGCAAGCTGCCCAAGCTGGACGACGACACCGCGGACCAC
GTGCGCAACGGCCTGACCCCCCGCTGGAGCGACCTGGACGTGAACCAGCACGTC
AAGAACGTGAAGTACATCGGCTGGATCCTGGAGTCGGCCCCCATCTCCATCCTGG
AGAGCCACGAGCTGGCCTCGATGACCCTGGAGTACCGCCGCGAGTGCGGCCGCG
ACTCCGTCCTGCAGAGCCTGACCTCGGTGTCCAACAACTGCACCGACGGCAGCG
AGGAGCTGCCCATCGAGTGCCAGCACCTGCTGCGCAACGAGGGCGGCTCGGAGA
TCGTCAAGGGCCGCACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGAAGTGCGGCCCCTTCGGCGCCG
GCCGCCCCTGACTCGAG
SEQ IDNO: 42
Myristicafragrans fatty acyl thioesterase (Genbank AAB717291.1) amino acid sequence
with Prototheca moriformis delta 12 fatty acid desaturase chloroplast transit peptide.
MAIKTNRQPVEKPPFTIGTLRKAIPAHCFERSALRGRAANAHTVPKINGNKAGLLTPM
ESTKDEDIVAAPTV APKRTFINQLPDWSMLLAAITTIFLAAEKQWTNLDWKPRRPDM
LVDFDPFSLGRFVQDGLIFRQNFSIRSYEIGADRTASIETLMNHLQETALNHVRCIGLL
DDGFGSTPEMTRRDLIWVVTRMQVLVDRYPSWGDVIEVDSWVTPSGKNGMKREWF
LRDCKTGEILTRATSVWVMMNKRTRRLSKIPEEVRVEIEPYFVEHGVLDEDSRKLPK
LNDNTANYIRRGLAPRWSDLDVNQHVNNVKYIGWILESVPSSLLESHELYGMTLEY
RKECGKDGLLQSLTA VASDYGGGSLEAGVECDHLLRLEDGSEIMRGKTEWRPKRAA
NTTYFGSVDDIPP ANNA
SEQ IDNO: 43
Relevant codon optimized coding region of Mysisticafragrans fatty acyl thioesterase with
Prototheca moriformis delta 12 fatty acid desaturase chloroplast transit peptide.
ACTAGTATGGCTATCAAGACGAACAGGCAGCCTGTGGAGAAGCCTCCGTTCACG
ATCGGGACGCTGCGCAAGGCCATCCCCGCGCACTG1TTCGAGCGCTCGGCGC1TC
GTGGGCGCGCCGCCAACGCCCACACCGTGCCCAAGATCAACGGCAACAAGGCCG
GCCTGCTGACCCCCATGGAGAGCACCAAGGACGAGGACATCGTCGCGGCCCCCA
CCGTGGCGCCCAAGCGCACCTTCATCAACCAGCTGCCCGACTGGTCGATGCTGCT
GGCCGCGATCACCACCATCTTCCTGGCGGCCGAGAAGCAGTGGACCAACCTGGA
CTGGAAGCCCCGCCGCCCCGACATGCTGGTCGACTTCGACCCCTTCTCCCTGGGC
CGCTTCGTGCAGGACGGCCTGATC1TCCGCCAGAACTTCAGCATCCGCTCGTACG
AGATCGGCGCGGACCGCACCGCCTCCATCGAGACCCTGATGAACCACCTGCAGG
                                             230

AGACCGCGCTGAACCACGTCCGCTGCATCGGCCTGCTGGACGACGGC1TCGGCA
GCACCCCCGAGATGACCCGCCGCGACCTGATCTGGGTGGTCACCCGCATGCAGG
TCCTGGTGGACCGCTACCCCTCGTGGGGCGACGTGATCGAGGTCGACTCCTGGGT
GACCCCCAGCGGCAAGAACGGCATGAAGCGCGAGTGGTTCCTGCGCGACTGCAA
GACCGGCGAGATCCTGACCCGCGCCACCTCGGTCTGGGTGATGATGAACAAGCG
CACCCGCCGCCTGTCCAAGATCCCCGAGGAGGTCCGCGTGGAGATCGAGCCCTA
C1TCGTCGAGCACGGCGTGCTGGACGAGGACTCGCGCAAGCTGCCCAAGCTGAA
CGACAACACCGCCAACTACATCCGCCGCGGCCTGGCGCCCCGCTGGTCCGACCTG
GACGTCAACCAGCACGTGAACAACGTCAAGTACATCGGCTGGATCCTGGAGAGC
GTGCCCAGCAGCCTGCTGGAGTCGCACGAGCTGTACGGCATGACCCTGGAGTAC
CGCAAGGAGTGCGGCAAGGACGGCCTGCTGCAGTCCCTGACCGCCGTCGCCAGC
GACTACGGCGGCGGCTCGCTGGAGGCCGGCGTGGAGTGCGACCACCTGCTGCGC
CTGGAGGACGGCTCCGAGATCATGCGCGGCAAGACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGCGC
GCCGCGAACACCACCTACTTCGGCAGCGTCGACGACATCCCCCCCGCCAACAAC
GCGTGACTCGAG
SEQ IDNO: 44
Cuphea palustris C14 preferring thioesterase (Genbank AAC49180) amino acid sequence
with Chiarella protothecoides stearoyl ACP desaturase transit peptide.
MATASTFSAFNARCGDLRRSAGSGPRRPARPLPVRGRASMLLSAV1TVFGVAEKQW
PMLDRKSKRPDMLVEPLGVDRIVYDGVSFRQSFSIRSYEIGADRTASIETLMNMFQET
SLNHCKIIGLLNDGFGRTPEMCKRDLIWVVTKMQIEVNRYPTWGDTIEVNTWVSASG
KHGMGRDWLISDCHTGEILIRATSVWAMMNQKTRRLSKIPYEVRQEIEPQFVDSAPV
IVDDRKFHKLDLKTGDSICNGLTPRWTDLDVNQHVNNVKYIGWILQSVPTEVFETQE
LCGLTLEYRRECGRDSVLESVTAMDPSKEGDRSLYQHLLRLEDGADIVKGRTEWRP
KNAGAKGAILTGKTSNGNSIS
SEQ IDNO: 45
Relevant codon optimized coding region of Cuphea palustris C14 preferring thioesterase
with Chlorella protothecoides stearoyl ACP desaturase transit peptide.
ACTAGTATGGCCACCGCATCCAC1TTCTCGGCGTTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACC
TGCGTCGCTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCG
CGGGCGCGCCAGCATGCTGCTGTCGGCGGTGACCACGGTC1TCGGCGTGGCCGA
GAAGCAGTGGCCCATGCTGGACCGCAAGTCCAAGCGCCCCGACATGCTGGTCGA
GCCCCTGGGCGTGGACCGCATCGTCTACGACGGCGTGAGC1TCCGCCAGTCG1TC
TCCATCCGCAGCTACGAGATCGGCGCCGACCGCACCGCCTCGATCGAGACGCTG
ATGAACATG1TCCAGGAGACCTCCCTGAACCACTGCAAGATCATCGGCCTGCTGA
ACGACGGCTTCGGCCGCACGCCCGAGATGTGCAAGCGCGACCTGATCTGGGTCG
TGACCAAGATGCAGATCGAGGTGAACCGCTACCCCACGTGGGGCGACACCATCG
AGGTCAACACGTGGGTGAGCGCCTCGGGCAAGCACGGCATGGGCCGCGACTGGC
TGATCTCCGACTGCCACACCGGCGAGATCCTGATCCGCGCGACGAGCGTCTGGGC
GATGATGAACCAGAAGACCCGCCGCCTGTCGAAGATCCCCTACGAGGTGCGCCA
GGAGATCGAGCCCCAG1TCGTCGACTCCGCCCCCGTGATCGTGGACGACCGCAA
GTTCCACAAGCTGGACCTGAAGACGGGCGACAGCATCTGCAACGGCCTGACCCC
CCGCTGGACGGACCTGGACGTGAACCAGCACGTCAACAACGTGAAGTACATCGG
CTGGATCCTGCAGTCGGTCCCCACCGAGGTG1TCGAGACGCAGGAGCTGTGCGG
CCTGACCCTGGAGTACCGCCGCGAGTGCGGCCGCGACTCCGTGCTGGAGAGCGT
CACGGCCATGGACCCCTCGAAGGAGGGCGACCGCTCCCTGTACCAGCACCTGCT
                                             231

GCGCCTGGAGGACGGCGCGGACATCGTGAAGGGCCGCACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAA
GAACGCCGGCGCCAAGGGCGCCATCCTGACGGGCAAGACCAGCAACGGCAACTC
GATCTCCTGACTCGAG
SEQ IDNO: 46
Ulmus americana broad specificity thioesterase (Genbank AAB71731) amino acid sequence
with Chlorella protothecoides stearoyl ACP desaturase transit peptide.
MATASTFSAFNARCGDLRRSAGSGPRRPARPLPVRGRAQLPDWSMLLAAITTLFLAA
EKQWMMLDWKPKRPDMLVDPFGLGRFVQDGLVFRNNFSIRSYEIGADRTASIETLM
NHLQETALNHVKSVGLLEDGLGSTREMSLRNLIWVVTKMQVA VDRYPTWGDEVQV
SSWATAIGKNGMRREWIVTDFRTGETLLRATSVWVMMNKLTRRISKIPEEVWHEIGP
SFIDAPPLPTVEDDGRKLTRFDESSADFIRKGLTPRWSDLDINQHVNNVKYIGWLLES
APPEIHESHEIASLTLEYRRECGRDSVLNSATKVSDSSQLGKSAVECNHLVRLQNGGE
IVKGRTVWRPKRPLYNDGA VVDVPAKTS
SEQ IDNO: 47
Relevant codon optimized coding region of Ulmus americana broad specificity thioesterase
with Chlorella protothecoides stearoyl ACP desaturase transit peptide.
ACTAGTATGGCCACCGCATCCACTTTCTCGGCGTTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACC
TGCGTCGCTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCG
CGGGCGCGCCCAGCTGCCCGACTGGAGCATGCTGCTGGCCGCGATCACCACCCT
GTTCCTGGCGGCCGAGAAGCAGTGGATGATGCTGGACTGGAAGCCCAAGCGCCC
CGACATGCTGGTGGACCCCTTCGGCCTGGGCCGCTTCGTGCAGGACGGCCTGGTG
TTCCGCAACAACTTCAGCATCCGCAGCTACGAGATCGGCGCGGACCGCACCGCC
AGCATCGAGACCCTGATGAACCACCTGCAGGAGACCGCCCTGAACCACGTGAAG
AGCGTGGGCCTGCTGGAGGACGGCCTGGGCAGCACCCGCGAGATGAGCCTGCGC
AACCTGATCTGGGTGGTGACCAAGATGCAGGTGGCGGTGGACCGCTACCCCACC
TGGGGCGACGAGGTGCAGGTGAGCAGCTGGGCGACCGCCATCGGCAAGAACGG
CATGCGCCGCGAGTGGATCGTGACCGACTTCCGCACCGGCGAGACCCTGCTGCG
CGCCACCAGCGTGTGGGTGATGATGAACAAGCTGACCCGCCGCATCAGCAAGAT
CCCCGAGGAGGTGTGGCACGAGATCGGCCCCAGCTTCATCGACGCGCCCCCCCT
GCCCACCGTGGAGGACGACGGCCGCAAGCTGACCCGCTTCGACGAGAGCAGCGC
CGACTTCATCCGCAAGGGCCTGACCCCCCGCTGGAGCGACCTGGACATCAACCA
GCACGTGAACAACGTGAAGTACATCGGCTGGCTGCTGGAGAGCGCGCCCCCCGA
GATCCACGAGAGCCACGAGATCGCCAGCCTGACCCTGGAGTACCGCCGCGAGTG
CGGCCGCGACAGCGTGCTGAACAGCGCCACCAAGGTGAGCGACAGCAGCCAGCT
GGGCAAGAGCGCCGTGGAGTGCAACCACCTGGTGCGCCTGCAGAACGGCGGCGA
GATCGTGAAGGGCCGCACCGTGTGGCGCCCCAAGCGCCCCCTGTACAACGACGG
CGCCGTGGTGGACGTGCCCGCCAAGACCAGCTGACTCGAG
SEQ ID NO: 48
Codon optimized Prototheca moriformis (UTEX 1435) delta 12 fatty acid desaturase transit
peptide cDNA sequence.
ACTAGTATGGCTATCAAGACGAACAGGCAGCCTGTGGAGAAGCCTCCGTTCACG
ATCGGGACGCTGCGCAAGGCCATCCCCGCGCACTGTTTCGAGCGCTCGGCGCTTC
GTGGGCGCGCC
                                            232

SEQ IDNO: 49
Codon optimized Chiarella protothecoides (UTEX 250) stearoyl ACP desaturase transit
peptide cDNA sequence.
ACTAGTATGGCCACCGCATCCACTTTCTCGGCGTTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACC
TGCGTCGCTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCG
CGGGCGCGCC
SEQ IDNO: 50
Revelant homologous recombination expression constmct of codon optimized coding region
of Ulmus americana broad specificity thioesterase.
GCTCTTCGGCCGCCGCCACTCCTGCTCGAGCGCGCCCGACTCGCGCTCCGCCTGC
GCCCGCGCGTGCGCCGCCAGCGCCTTGGCCTTTTCGCCGCGCTCGTGCGCGTCGC
TGATGTCCATCACCAGGTCCATGAGGTCTGCCTTGCGCCGGCTGAGCCACTGCTT
CGTCCGGGCGGCCAAGAGGAGCATGAGGGAGGACTCCTGGTCCAGGGTCCTGAC
GTGGTCGCGGCTCTGGGAGCGGGCCAGCATCATCTGGCTCTGCCGCACCGAGGC
CGCCTCCAACTGGTCCTCCAGCAGCCGCAGTCGCCGCCGACCCTGGCAGAGGAA
GACAGGTGAGGGGGGTATGAATTGTACAGAACAACCACGAGCCTTGTCTAGGCA
GAATCCCTACCAGTCATGGCTTTACCTGGATGACGGCCTGCGAACAGCTGTCCAG
CGACCCTCGCTGCCGCCGCTTCTCCCGCACGCTTCTTTCCAGCACCGTGATGGCG
CGAGCCAGCGCCGCACGCTGGCGCTGCGCTTCGCCGATCTGAGGACAGTCGGGG
AACTCTGATCAGTCTAAACCCCCTTGCGCGTTAGTGTTGCCATCCTTTGCAGACC
GGTGAGAGCCGACTTGTTGTGCGCCACCCCCCACACCACCTCCTCCCAGACCAAT
TCTGTCACCTTTTTGGCGAAGGCATCGGCCTCGGCCTGCAGAGAGGACAGCAGTG
CCCAGCCGCTGGGGGTTGGCGGATGCACGCTCAGGTACCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGA
CACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGC
AACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCC
GATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGA
CATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTA
CACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTT
CGTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACGGCGCGCCATGCTGCTGCAGGCCTTCCTGTTC
CTGCTGGCCGGCTTCGCCGCCAAGATCAGCGCCTCCATGACGAACGAGACGTCC
GACCGCCCCCTGGTGCACTTCACCCCCAACAAGGGCTGGATGAACGACCCCAAC
GGCCTGTGGTACGACGAGAAGGACGCCAAGTGGCACCTGTACTTCCAGTACAAC
CCGAACGACACCGTCTGGGGGACGCCCTTGTTCTGGGGCCACGCCACGTCCGAC
GACCTGACCAACTGGGAGGACCAGCCCATCGCCATCGCCCCGAAGCGCAACGAC
TCCGGCGCCTTCTCCGGCTCCATGGTGGTGGACTACAACAACACCTCCGGCTTCT
TCAACGACACCATCGACCCGCGCCAGCGCTGCGTGGCCATCTGGACCTACAACA
CCCCGGAGTCCGAGGAGCAGTACATCTCCTACAGCCTGGACGGCGGCTACACCTT
CACCGAGTACCAGAAGAACCCCGTGCTGGCCGCCAACTCCACCCAGTTCCGCGA
CCCGAAGGTCTTCTGGTACGAGCCCTCCCAGAAGTGGATCATGACCGCGGCCAA
GTCCCAGGACTACAAGATCGAGATCTACTCCTCCGACGACCTGAAGTCCTGGAA
GCTGGAGTCCGCGTTCGCCAACGAGGGCTTCCTCGGCTACCAGTACGAGTGCCCC
GGCCTGATCGAGGTCCCCACCGAGCAGGACCCCAGCAAGTCCTACTGGGTGATG
TTCATCTCCATCAACCCCGGCGCCCCGGCCGGCGGCTCCTTCAACCAGTACTTCG
TCGGCAGCTTCAACGGCACCCACTTCGAGGCCTTCGACAACCAGTCCCGCGTGGT
GGACTTCGGCAAGGACTACTACGCCCTGCAGACCTTCTTCAACACCGACCCGACC
TACGGGAGCGCCCTGGGCATCGCGTGGGCCTCCAACTGGGAGTACTCCGCCTTCG
TGCCCACCAACCCCTGGCGCTCCTCCATGTCCCTCGTGCGCAAGTTCTCCCTCAAC
                                            233

ACCGAGTACCAGGCCAACCCGGAGACGGAGCTGATCAACCTGAAGGCCGAGCCG
ATCCTGAACATCAGCAACGCCGGCCCCTGGAGCCGGTTCGCCACCAACACCACG
TTGACGAAGGCCAACAGCTACAACGTCGACCTGTCCAACAGCACCGGCACCCTG
GAGTTCGAGCTGGTGTACGCCGTCAACACCACCCAGACGATCTCCAAGTCCGTGT
TCGCGGACCTCTCCCTCTGGTTCAAGGGCCTGGAGGACCCCGAGGAGTACCTCCG
CATGGGCTTCGAGGTGTCCGCGTCCTCCTTCTTCCTGGACCGCGGGAACAGCAAG
GTGAAGTTCGTGAAGGAGAACCCCTACTTCACCAACCGCATGAGCGTGAACAAC
CAGCCCTTCAAGAGCGAGAACGACCTGTCCTACTACAAGGTGTACGGCTTGCTGG
ACCAGAACATCCTGGAGCTGTACTTCAACGACGGCGACGTCGTGTCCACCAACA
CCTACTTCATGACCACCGGGAACGCCCTGGGCTCCGTGAACATGACGACGGGGG
TGGACAACCTGTTCTACATCGACAAGTTCCAGGTGCGCGAGGTCAAGTGACAATT
GGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGG
ACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCA
AACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGC
TTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTT
GCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGC
TCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGG
TACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGAT
GGGAACACAAATGGAGGATCCCGCGTCTCGAACAGAGCGCGCAGAGGAACGCT
GAAGGTCTCGCCTCTGTCGCACCTCAGCGCGGCATACACCACAATAACCACCTGA
CGAATGCGCTTGGTTCTTCGTCCATTAGCGAAGCGTCCGGTTCACACACGTGCCA
CGTTGGCGAGGTGGCAGGTGACAATGATCGGTGGAGCTGATGGTCGAAACGTTC
ACAGCCTAGGGATATCGAATTCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGT
AGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTC
GACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCG
AGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACC
AAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCT
TGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTTCAGTCACAACCC
GCAAACACTAGTATGGCCACCGCATCCACTTTCTCGGCGTTCAATGCCCGCTGCG
GCGACCTGCGTCGCTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCC
CCGTGCGCGGGCGCGCCCAGCTGCCCGACTGGAGCATGCTGCTGGCCGCGATCA
CCACCCTGTTCCTGGCGGCCGAGAAGCAGTGGATGATGCTGGACTGGAAGCCCA
AGCGCCCCGACATGCTGGTGGACCCCTTCGGCCTGGGCCGCTTCGTGCAGGACGG
CCTGGTGTTCCGCAACAACTTCAGCATCCGCAGCTACGAGATCGGCGCGGACCGC
ACCGCCAGCATCGAGACCCTGATGAACCACCTGCAGGAGACCGCCCTGAACCAC
GTGAAGAGCGTGGGCCTGCTGGAGGACGGCCTGGGCAGCACCCGCGAGATGAGC
CTGCGCAACCTGATCTGGGTGGTGACCAAGATGCAGGTGGCGGTGGACCGCTAC
CCCACCTGGGGCGACGAGGTGCAGGTGAGCAGCTGGGCGACCGCCATCGGCAAG
AACGGCATGCGCCGCGAGTGGATCGTGACCGACTTCCGCACCGGCGAGACCCTG
CTGCGCGCCACCAGCGTGTGGGTGATGATGAACAAGCTGACCCGCCGCATCAGC
AAGATCCCCGAGGAGGTGTGGCACGAGATCGGCCCCAGCTTCATCGACGCGCCC
CCCCTGCCCACCGTGGAGGACGACGGCCGCAAGCTGACCCGCTTCGACGAGAGC
AGCGCCGACTTCATCCGCAAGGGCCTGACCCCCCGCTGGAGCGACCTGGACATC
AACCAGCACGTGAACAACGTGAAGTACATCGGCTGGCTGCTGGAGAGCGCGCCC
CCCGAGATCCACGAGAGCCACGAGATCGCCAGCCTGACCCTGGAGTACCGCCGC
GAGTGCGGCCGCGACAGCGTGCTGAACAGCGCCACCAAGGTGAGCGACAGCAGC
CAGCTGGGCAAGAGCGCCGTGGAGTGCAACCACCTGGTGCGCCTGCAGAACGGC
GGCGAGATCGTGAAGGGCCGCACCGTGTGGCGCCCCAAGCGCCCCCTGTACAAC
GACGGCGCCGTGGTGGACGTGCCCGCCAAGACCAGCGATGACGATGACAAGCTG
GGATGACTCGAGTTAATTAACTCGAGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACAC
                           234

ACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACC
TGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGT
ACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGC
ATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGT
CCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTG
GTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAA
TGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTGTAGAGCT
CCTTGTTTTCCAGAAGGAGTTGCTCCTTGAGCCTTTCATTCTCAGCCTCGATAACC
TCCAAAGCCGCTCTAATTGTGGAGGGGGTTCGAATTTAAAAGCTTGGAATGTTGG
TTCGTGCGTCTGGAACAAGCCCAGACTTGTTGCTCACTGGGAAAAGGACCATCAG
CTCCAAAAAACTTGCCGCTCAAACCGCGTACCTCTGCTTTCGCGCAATCTGCCCT
GTTGAAATCGCCACCACATTCATATTGTGACGCTTGAGCAGTCTGTAATTGCCTC
AGAATGTGGAATCATCTGCCCCCTGTGCGAGCCCATGCCAGGCATGTCGCGGGC
GAGGACACCCGCCACTCGTACAGCAGACCATTATGCTACCTCACAATAGTTCATA
ACAGTGACCATATTTCTCGAAGCTCCCCAACGAGCACCTCCATGCTCTGAGTGGC
CACCCCCCGGCCCTGGTGCTTGCGGAGGGCAGGTCAACCGGCATGGGGCTACCG
AAATCCCCGACCGGATCCCACCACCCCCGCGATGGGAAGAATCTCTCCCCGGGA
TGTGGGCCCACCACCAGCACAACCTGCTGGCCCAGGCGAGCGTCAAACCATACC
ACACAAATATCCTTGGCATCGGCCCTGAATTCCTTCTGCCGCTCTGCTACCCGGT
GCTTCTGTCCGAAGCAGGGGTTGCTAGGGATCGCTCCGAGTCCGCAAACCCTTGT
CGCGTGGCGGGGCTTGTTCGAGCTTGTTCGAGCTTGAAGAGCCTCTAGAGTCGAC
CTGCAGGCATGCAAGCTTGGCGTAATCATGGTCATAGCTGTTTCCTGTGTGAAAT
TGTTATCCGCTCACAATTCCACACAACATACGAGCCGGAAGCATAAAGTGTAAA
GCCTGGGGTGCCTAATGAGTGAGCTAACTCACATTAATTGCGTTGCGCTCACTGC
CCGCTTTCCAGTCGGGAAACCTGTCGTGCCAGCTGCATTAATGAATCGGCCAACG
CGCGGGGAGAGGCGGTTTGCGTATTGGGCGCTCTTCC
SEQ IDNO: 51
Revelant homologous recombination expression constmct of codon optimized coding region
of Cinnamomum camphora C14 preferring thioesterase.
GAATTCGCCCTCCCGTGATCACACAGGTGCCTTGCGAGCGTGATCACACTATTTT
GGGGGTCCTACAGTACTGAAATGGTGAGAAGTCGTACTGAAATCAAGGATGAAC
AATGAAAATGGTGCTGTGGTGGCTTCTCAAAGGTCAAGAATCAGTCGCTCGCGTC
AGGAAATCGCGGCGTCAACCAGCGTGGGCGCGGTCAGTGGCCCCGCACTGGTCA
CCATAGCCTCTCCTGCCACAGTAGCGATCCCCTGGGCGTTCACTCTCAGCAGCGG
CTGTACTGCCTCCCAGATTTTCTTCTTCTGGACCTGCGGGCGTGAGAGGATGAGC
AGGGTGGGCCAAGGGCTCAATCCTGAACGGCCCTCATTCGGTTTCCAATCCCACA
ACACATACCCACAGCAGGTCAGACCACGCATTCCACCATGCGCACCAATAACGT
GTCCTTACCTGATTGGGTGTGGCAGGCTCCGTGGACAGGAGTGCCTCGTCCCCCG
CCCAGACCCGCTCCCCCGTCACGGCGGCGTCCGGGACCCGCAGCGGCTCCACCG
CGGTGTGATCCGCGTTGGCGGCGCAGAGCAGCATCCCAGCCGATTTGACCCCGC
GCATGCTCCGAGGCTTGAGGTTGGCCAGCACCACCACCCGCCGGCCGACAAGGT
CCTCCAGGGTCACGTGCCGGACCAGGCCACTCACGATGGTGCGAGGGCCCCCCT
CCTCGCCGAGGTCGATCTGCTCGACGTACAGACTGCGACATGCGTGGCGAGTGGT
CATCAGAAGGAAGCAGGTGTGCAGAAGGGGCACGTGGTTGGTATTGAGAGTAGC
CAAAGCTTTGTGCCAATCAGAAAGTCAACGCAGCTGCCTGCCTGGCTCGCGTACA
ATTCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACG
GCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTC
GGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCC
                                          235

AGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCATATTCAAACACC
TAGATCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAA
GGGGGCGCCTCTTCCCTTCGTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACGGCGCGCCATGCTG
CTGCAGGCCTTCCTGTTCCTGCTGGCCGGCTTCGCCGCCAAGATCAGCGCCTCCA
TGACGAACGAGACGTCCGACCGCCCCCTGGTGCACTTCACCCCCAACAAGGGCT
GGATGAACGACCCCAACGGCCTGTGGTACGACGAGAAGGACGCCAAGTGGCACC
TGTACTTCCAGTACAACCCGAACGACACCGTCTGGGGGACGCCCTTGTTCTGGGG
CCACGCCACGTCCGACGACCTGACCAACTGGGAGGACCAGCCCATCGCCATCGC
CCCGAAGCGCAACGACTCCGGCGCCTTCTCCGGCTCCATGGTGGTGGACTACAAC
AACACCTCCGGCTTCTTCAACGACACCATCGACCCGCGCCAGCGCTGCGTGGCCA
TCTGGACCTACAACACCCCGGAGTCCGAGGAGCAGTACATCTCCTACAGCCTGG
ACGGCGGCTACACCTTCACCGAGTACCAGAAGAACCCCGTGCTGGCCGCCAACT
CCACCCAGTTCCGCGACCCGAAGGTCTTCTGGTACGAGCCCTCCCAGAAGTGGAT
CATGACCGCGGCCAAGTCCCAGGACTACAAGATCGAGATCTACTCCTCCGACGA
CCTGAAGTCCTGGAAGCTGGAGTCCGCGTTCGCCAACGAGGGCTTCCTCGGCTAC
CAGTACGAGTGCCCCGGCCTGATCGAGGTCCCCACCGAGCAGGACCCCAGCAAG
TCCTACTGGGTGATGTTCATCTCCATCAACCCCGGCGCCCCGGCCGGCGGCTCCT
TCAACCAGTACTTCGTCGGCAGCTTCAACGGCACCCACTTCGAGGCCTTCGACAA
CCAGTCCCGCGTGGTGGACTTCGGCAAGGACTACTACGCCCTGCAGACCTTCTTC
AACACCGACCCGACCTACGGGAGCGCCCTGGGCATCGCGTGGGCCTCCAACTGG
GAGTACTCCGCCTTCGTGCCCACCAACCCCTGGCGCTCCTCCATGTCCCTCGTGC
GCAAGTTCTCCCTCAACACCGAGTACCAGGCCAACCCGGAGACGGAGCTGATCA
ACCTGAAGGCCGAGCCGATCCTGAACATCAGCAACGCCGGCCCCTGGAGCCGGT
TCGCCACCAACACCACGTTGACGAAGGCCAACAGCTACAACGTCGACCTGTCCA
ACAGCACCGGCACCCTGGAGTTCGAGCTGGTGTACGCCGTCAACACCACCCAGA
CGATCTCCAAGTCCGTGTTCGCGGACCTCTCCCTCTGGTTCAAGGGCCTGGAGGA
CCCCGAGGAGTACCTCCGCATGGGCTTCGAGGTGTCCGCGTCCTCCTTCTTCCTG
GACCGCGGGAACAGCAAGGTGAAGTTCGTGAAGGAGAACCCCTACTTCACCAAC
CGCATGAGCGTGAACAACCAGCCCTTCAAGAGCGAGAACGACCTGTCCTACTAC
AAGGTGTACGGCTTGCTGGACCAGAACATCCTGGAGCTGTACTTCAACGACGGC
GACGTCGTGTCCACCAACACCTACTTCATGACCACCGGGAACGCCCTGGGCTCCG
TGAACATGACGACGGGGGTGGACAACCTGTTCTACATCGACAAGTTCCAGGTGC
GCGAGGTCAAGTGATTAATTAACTCGAGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGAC
ACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGA
CCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGT
GTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCA
GCATCCCCTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTG
TCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTT
GGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCA
ATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTTGAGCTC
CTTTCTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTT
CCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGG
CTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCC
CCCGATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGA
TCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGG
GCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACACTAGTATGACGTTCGG
GGTCGCCCTCCCGGCCATGGGCCGCGGTGTCTCCCTTCCCCGGCCCAGGGTCGCG
GTGCGCGCCCAGTCGGCGAGTCAGGTTTTGGAGAGCGGGCGCGCCCCCGACTGG
TCCATGCTGTTCGCCGTGATCACCACCATCTTCTCCGCCGCCGAGAAGCAGTGGA
CCAACCTGGAGTGGAAGCCCAAGCCCAACCCCCCCCAGCTGCTGGACGACCACT
                            236

TCGGCCCCCACGGCCTGGTG1TCCGCCGCACC1TCGCCATCCGCAGCTACGAGGT
GGGCCCCGACCGCTCCACCAGCATCGTGGCCGTGATGAACCACCTGCAGGAGGC
CGCCCTGAACCACGCCAAGTCCGTGGGCATCCTGGGCGACGGC1TCGGCACCAC
CCTGGAGATGTCCAAGCGCGACCTGATCTGGGTGGTGAAGCGCACCCACGTGGC
CGTGGAGCGCTACCCCGCCTGGGGCGACACCGTGGAGGTGGAGTGCTGGGTGGG
CGCCTCCGGCAACAACGGCCGCCGCCACGACTTCCTGGTGCGCGACTGCAAGAC
CGGCGAGATCCTGACCCGCTGCACCTCCCTGAGCGTGATGATGAACACCCGCACC
CGCCGCCTGAGCAAGATCCCCGAGGAGGTGCGCGGCGAGATCGGCCCCGCCTTC
ATCGACAACGTGGCCGTGAAGGACGAGGAGATCAAGAAGCCCCAGAAGCTGAA
CGACTCCACCGCCGACTACATCCAGGGCGGCCTGACCCCCCGCTGGAACGACCT
GGACATCAACCAGCACGTGAACAACATCAAGTACGTGGACTGGATCCTGGAGAC
CGTGCCCGACAGCATCTTCGAGAGCCACCACATCTCCTCCTTCACCATCGAGTAC
CGCCGCGAGTGCACCATGGACAGCGTGCTGCAGTCCCTGACCACCGTGAGCGGC
GGCTCCTCCGAGGCCGGCCTGGTGTGCGAGCACCTGCTGCAGCTGGAGGGCGGC
AGCGAGGTGCTGCGCGCCAAGACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGCTGACCGACTCCTTC
CGCGGCATCAGCGTGATCCCCGCCGAGTCCAGCGTGATGGACTACAAGGACCAC
GACGGCGACTACAAGGACCACGACATCGACTACAAGGACGACGACGACAAGTG
ACTCGAGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTG
TGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACAC1TGCTGCC1TGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGC1T
1TATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGT1TGATC1TGTGTGTACGCGC1TTTGCGAG1TGCT
AGCTCTTGTGCTA1TTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCG1TTCATAT
CGC1TGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCT
CCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCC1TGGT1TGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCT
CCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGT
GGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTGGTACCCGTACCCATCAGCATCCGGGTGA
ATCTTGGCCTCCAAGATATGGCCAATCCTCACATCCAGCTTGGCAAAATCGACTA
GACTGTCTGCAAGTGGGAATGTGGAGCACAAGGTTGCTTGTAGCGATCGACAGA
CTGGTGGGGTACA1TGACAGGTGGGCAGCGCCGCATCCATCGTGCCTGACGCGA
GCGCCGCCGGTTGCTCGCCCGTGCCTGCCGTCAAAGAGCGGCAGAGAAATCGGG
AACCGAAAACGTCACA1TGCCTGATGTTGTTACATGCTGGACTAGACTTTC1TGG
CGTGGGTCTGCTCCTCGCCAGGTGCGCGACGCCTCGGGGCTGGGTGCGAGGGAG
CCGTGCGGCCACGCATTTGACAAGACCCAAAGCTCGCATCTCAGACGGTCAACC
G1TCGTATTATACATTCAACATATGGTACATACGCAAAAAGCATGCCAACGATGA
CATAGGCGAATTC
SEQ IDNO: 52
Relevant expression construct for codon optimized coding region of Cuphea hookeriana ClO
preferring thioesterase with Chiarella protothecoides stearoyl ACP desaturase transit peptide.
GGTACCCGCCTGCAACGCAAGGGCAGCCACAGCCGCTCCCACCCGCCGCTGAAC
CGACACGTGCTTGGGCGCCTGCCGCCTGCCTGCCGCATGCTTGTGCTGGTGAGGC
TGGGCAGTGCTGCCATGCTGA1TGAGGCTTGGTTCATCGGGTGGAAGCTTATGTG
TGTGCTGGGC1TGCATGCCGGGCAATGCGCATGGTGGCAAGAGGGCGGCAGCAC
TTGCTGGAGCTGCCGCGGTGCCTCCAGGTGG1TCAATCGCGGCAGCCAGAGGGA
T1TCAGATGATCGCGCGTACAGGTTGAGCAGCAGTGTCAGCAAAGGTAGCAGTTT
GCCAGAATGATCGGTTCAGCTGTTAATCAATGCCAGCAAGAGAAGGGGTCAAGT
GCAAACACGGGCATGCCACAGCACGGGCACCGGGGAGTGGAATGGCACCACCA
AGTGTGTGCGAGCCAGCATCGCCGCCTGGCTGTTTCAGCTACAACGGCAGGAGTC
ATCCAACGTAACCATGAGCTGATCAACACTGCAATCATCGGGCGGGCGTGATGC
AAGCATGCCTGGCGAAGACACATGGTGTGCGGATGCTGCCGGCTGCTGCCTGCT
                                              237

GCGCACGCCGTTGAGTTGGCAGCAGGCTCAGCCATGCACTGGATGGCAGCTGGG
CTGCCACTGCAATGTGGTGGATAGGATGCAAGTGGAGCGAATACCAAACCCTCT
GGCTGCTTGCTGGGTTGCATGGCATCGCACCATCAGCAGGAGCGCATGCGAAGG
GACTGGCCCCATGCACGCCATGCCAAACCGGAGCGCACCGAGTGTCCACACTGT
CACCAGGCCCGCAAGCTTTGCAGAACCATGCTCATGGACGCATGTAGCGCTGAC
GTCCCTTGACGGCGCTCCTCTCGGGTGTGGGAAACGCAATGCAGCACAGGCAGC
AGAGGCGGCGGCAGCAGAGCGGCGGCAGCAGCGGCGGGGGCCACCCTTCTTGCG
GGGTCGCGCCCCAGCCAGCGGTGATGCGCTGATCCCAAACGAGTTCACATTCATT
TGCATGCCTGGAGAAGCGAGGCTGGGGCCTTTGGGCTGGTGCAGCCCGCAATGG
AATGCGGGACCGCCAGGCTAGCAGCAAAGGCGCCTCCCCTACTCCGCATCGATG
TTCCATAGTGCATTGGACTGCATTTGGGTGGGGCGGCCGGCTGTTTCTTTCGTGTT
GCAAAACGCGCCAGCTCAGCAACCTGTCCCGTGGGTCCCCCGTGCCGATGAAAT
CGTGTGCACGCCGATCAGCTGATTGCCCGGCTCGCGAAGTAGGCGCCCTCCTTTC
TGCTCGCCCTCTCTCCGTCCCGCCTCTAGAATATCAATGATCGAGCAGGACGGCC
TCCACGCCGGCTCCCCCGCCGCCTGGGTGGAGCGCCTGTTCGGCTACGACTGGGC
CCAGCAGACCATCGGCTGCTCCGACGCCGCCGTGTTCCGCCTGTCCGCCCAGGGC
CGCCCCGTGCTGTTCGTGAAGACCGACCTGTCCGGCGCCCTGAACGAGCTGCAGG
ACGAGGCCGCCCGCCTGTCCTGGCTGGCCACCACCGGCGTGCCCTGCGCCGCCGT
GCTGGACGTGGTGACCGAGGCCGGCCGCGACTGGCTGCTGCTGGGCGAGGTGCC
CGGCCAGGACCTGCTGTCCTCCCACCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGAAGGTGTCCATCATG
GCCGACGCCATGCGCCGCCTGCACACCCTGGACCCCGCCACCTGCCCCTTCGACC
ACCAGGCCAAGCACCGCATCGAGCGCGCCCGCACCCGCATGGAGGCCGGCCTGG
TGGACCAGGACGACCTGGACGAGGAGCACCAGGGCCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGCTGT
TCGCCCGCCTGAAGGCCCGCATGCCCGACGGCGAGGACCTGGTGGTGACCCACG
GCGACGCCTGCCTGCCCAACATCATGGTGGAGAACGGCCGCTTCTCCGGCTTCAT
CGACTGCGGCCGCCTGGGCGTGGCCGACCGCTACCAGGACATCGCCCTGGCCAC
CCGCGACATCGCCGAGGAGCTGGGCGGCGAGTGGGCCGACCGCTTCCTGGTGCT
GTACGGCATCGCCGCCCCCGACTCCCAGCGCATCGCCTTCTACCGCCTGCTGGAC
GAGTTCTTCTGACAATTGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGAC
GCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATAT
CCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTT
TGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCC
CTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCC
CTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTC
CGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCA
CGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAGGATCCCGCGTCTCGAACAGAGC
GCGCAGAGGAACGCTGAAGGTCTCGCCTCTGTCGCACCTCAGCGCGGCATACAC
CACAATAACCACCTGACGAATGCGCTTGGTTCTTCGTCCATTAGCGAAGCGTCCG
GTTCACACACGTGCCACGTTGGCGAGGTGGCAGGTGACAATGATCGGTGGAGCT
GATGGTCGAAACGTTCACAGCCTAGGGATATCGAATTCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGAC
ACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCA
ACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCG
ATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGAC
ATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTAC
ACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTC
GTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACACTAGTATGGCCACCGCATCCACTTTCTCGGCG
TTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACCTGCGTCGCTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCC
CAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCGCGGGCGCGCCCAGCTGCCCGACTGGAGCCGCC
TGCTGACCGCCATCACCACCGTGTTCGTGAAGTCCAAGCGCCCCGACATGCACGA
CCGCAAGTCCAAGCGCCCCGACATGCTGGTGGACAGCTTCGGCCTGGAGTCCAC
                            238

CGTGCAGGACGGCCTGGTGTICCGCCAGTCCTTCTCCATCCGCTCCTACGAGATC
GGCACCGACCGCACCGCCAGCATCGAGACCCTGATGAACCACCTGCAGGAGACC
TCCCTGAACCACTGCAAGAGCACCGGCATCCTGCTGGACGGCTTCGGCCGCACCC
TGGAGATGTGCAAGCGCGACCTGATCTGGGTGGTGATCAAGATGCAGATCAAGG
TGAACCGCTACCCCGCCTGGGGCGACACCGTGGAGATCAACACCCGCTTCAGCC
GCCTGGGCAAGATCGGCATGGGCCGCGACTGGCTGATCTCCGACTGCAACACCG
GCGAGATCCTGGTGCGCGCCACCAGCGCCTACGCCATGATGAACCAGAAGACCC
GCCGCCTGTCCAAGCTGCCCTACGAGGTGCACCAGGAGATCGTGCCCCTGTTCGT
GGACAGCCCCGTGATCGAGGACTCCGACCTGAAGGTGCACAAGTICAAGGTGAA
GACCGGCGACAGCATCCAGAAGGGCCTGACCCCCGGCTGGAACGACCTGGACGT
GAACCAGCACGTGTCCAACGTGAAGTACATCGGCTGGATCCTGGAGAGCATGCC
CACCGAGGTGCTGGAGACCCAGGAGCTGTGCTCCCTGGCCCTGGAGTACCGCCG
CGAGTGCGGCCGCGACTCCGTGCTGGAGAGCGTGACCGCCATGGACCCCAGCAA
GGTGGGCGTGCGCTCCCAGTACCAGCACCTGCTGCGCCTGGAGGACGGCACCGC
CATCGTGAACGGCGCCACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGAACGCCGGCGCCAACGGCGC
CATCTCCACCGGCAAGACCAGCAACGGCAACTCCGTGTCCATGGACTACAAGGA
CCACGACGGCGACTACAAGGACCACGACATCGACTACAAGGACGACGACGACA
AGTGACTCGAGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGT
CGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGC
CGCTITTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTITGATCTIGTGTGTACGCGCTITTGCGAG
TIGCTAGCTGCTIGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTT
TCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGC
GCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTITGGGCTCCGCCTG
TATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAA
GTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTTGAGCTC
SEQ IDNO: 53
Relevant expression construct for codon optimized coding region of Umbellularia californica
C12 preferring thioesterase with Chiarella protothecoides stearoyl ACP desaturase transit
peptide.
GGTACCCGCCTGCAACGCAAGGGCAGCCACAGCCGCTCCCACCCGCCGCTGAAC
CGACACGTGCTTGGGCGCCTGCCGCCTGCCTGCCGCATGCTTGTGCTGGTGAGGC
TGGGCAGTGCTGCCATGCTGATIGAGGCTTGGTTCATCGGGTGGAAGCTTATGTG
TGTGCTGGGCTIGCATGCCGGGCAATGCGCATGGTGGCAAGAGGGCGGCAGCAC
TTGCTGGAGCTGCCGCGGTGCCTCCAGGTGGTICAATCGCGGCAGCCAGAGGGA
TTICAGATGATCGCGCGTACAGGTTGAGCAGCAGTGTCAGCAAAGGTAGCAGTTT
GCCAGAATGATCGGTTCAGCTGTTAATCAATGCCAGCAAGAGAAGGGGTCAAGT
GCAAACACGGGCATGCCACAGCACGGGCACCGGGGAGTGGAATGGCACCACCA
AGTGTGTGCGAGCCAGCATCGCCGCCTGGCTGTTTCAGCTACAACGGCAGGAGTC
ATCCAACGTAACCATGAGCTGATCAACACTGCAATCATCGGGCGGGCGTGATGC
AAGCATGCCTGGCGAAGACACATGGTGTGCGGATGCTGCCGGCTGCTGCCTGCT
GCGCACGCCGTTGAGTTGGCAGCAGGCTCAGCCATGCACTGGATGGCAGCTGGG
CTGCCACTGCAATGTGGTGGATAGGATGCAAGTGGAGCGAATACCAAACCCTCT
GGCTGCTTGCTGGGTTGCATGGCATCGCACCATCAGCAGGAGCGCATGCGAAGG
GACTGGCCCCATGCACGCCATGCCAAACCGGAGCGCACCGAGTGTCCACACTGT
CACCAGGCCCGCAAGCTTIGCAGAACCATGCTCATGGACGCATGTAGCGCTGAC
GTCCCTTGACGGCGCTCCTCTCGGGTGTGGGAAACGCAATGCAGCACAGGCAGC
AGAGGCGGCGGCAGCAGAGCGGCGGCAGCAGCGGCGGGGGCCACCCTICTIGCG
GGGTCGCGCCCCAGCCAGCGGTGATGCGCTGATCCCAAACGAGTICACATTCATT
                                             239

TGCATGCCTGGAGAAGCGAGGCTGGGGCClTTGGGCTGGTGCAGCCCGCAATGG
AATGCGGGACCGCCAGGCTAGCAGCAAAGGCGCCTCCCCTACTCCGCATCGATG
1TCCATAGTGCATTGGACTGCAT1TGGGTGGGGCGGCCGGCTGT1TC1TTCGTGTT
GCAAAACGCGCCAGCTCAGCAACCTGTCCCGTGGGTCCCCCGTGCCGATGAAAT
CGTGTGCACGCCGATCAGCTGATTGCCCGGCTCGCGAAGTAGGCGCCCTCCT1TC
TGCTCGCCCTCTCTCCGTCCCGCCTCTAGAATATCAATGATCGAGCAGGACGGCC
TCCACGCCGGCTCCCCCGCCGCCTGGGTGGAGCGCCTGTTCGGCTACGACTGGGC
CCAGCAGACCATCGGCTGCTCCGACGCCGCCGTGTTCCGCCTGTCCGCCCAGGGC
CGCCCCGTGCTGlTCGTGAAGACCGACCTGTCCGGCGCCCTGAACGAGCTGCAGG
ACGAGGCCGCCCGCCTGTCCTGGCTGGCCACCACCGGCGTGCCCTGCGCCGCCGT
GCTGGACGTGGTGACCGAGGCCGGCCGCGACTGGCTGCTGCTGGGCGAGGTGCC
CGGCCAGGACCTGCTGTCCTCCCACCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGAAGGTGTCCATCATG
GCCGACGCCATGCGCCGCCTGCACACCCTGGACCCCGCCACCTGCCCCTTCGACC
ACCAGGCCAAGCACCGCATCGAGCGCGCCCGCACCCGCATGGAGGCCGGCCTGG
TGGACCAGGACGACCTGGACGAGGAGCACCAGGGCCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGCTGT
TCGCCCGCCTGAAGGCCCGCATGCCCGACGGCGAGGACCTGGTGGTGACCCACG
GCGACGCCTGCCTGCCCAACATCATGGTGGAGAACGGCCGClTCTCCGGCTTCAT
CGACTGCGGCCGCCTGGGCGTGGCCGACCGCTACCAGGACATCGCCCTGGCCAC
CCGCGACATCGCCGAGGAGCTGGGCGGCGAGTGGGCCGACCGCTTCCTGGTGCT
GTACGGCATCGCCGCCCCCGACTCCCAGCGCATCGCClTCTACCGCCTGCTGGAC
GAG1TCTTCTGACAA1TGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGAC
GCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGlTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATAT
CCCTGCCGC1TTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTG1TTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTT
TGCGAG1TGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTAT1TGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCC1TCC
CTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAAClTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCC
CTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTlTGGGCTC
CGCCTGTAlTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCA
CGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAGGATCCCGCGTCTCGAACAGAGC
GCGCAGAGGAACGCTGAAGGTCTCGCCTCTGTCGCACCTCAGCGCGGCATACAC
CACAATAACCACCTGACGAATGCGClTGGTTCTTCGTCCATTAGCGAAGCGTCCG
GlTCACACACGTGCCACGTTGGCGAGGTGGCAGGTGACAATGATCGGTGGAGCT
GATGGTCGAAACGTTCACAGCCTAGGGATATCGAATTCClTTCTTGCGCTATGAC
AClTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCA
ACACCGATGATGC1TCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCC1TCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCG
ATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGAC
A1TATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATA1TCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCAC1TCTAC
ACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTC1TCCTC1TC
G1TTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACACTAGTATGGCCACCGCATCCACT1TCTCGGCG
lTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACCTGCGTCGCTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCC
CAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCGCGGGCGCGCCCCCGACTGGTCCATGCTGTTCGC
CGTGATCACCACCATCTTCAGCGCCGCCGAGAAGCAGTGGACCAACCTGGAGTG
GAAGCCCAAGCCCAAGCTGCCCCAGCTGCTGGACGACCAClTCGGCCTGCACGG
CCTGGTGTTCCGCCGCACCTTCGCCATCCGCTCCTACGAGGTGGGCCCCGACCGC
AGCACCTCCATCCTGGCCGTGATGAACCACATGCAGGAGGCCACCCTGAACCAC
GCCAAGAGCGTGGGCATCCTGGGCGACGGClTCGGCACCACCCTGGAGATGTCC
AAGCGCGACCTGATGTGGGTGGTGCGCCGCACCCACGTGGCCGTGGAGCGCTAC
CCCACCTGGGGCGACACCGTGGAGGTGGAGTGCTGGATCGGCGCCAGCGGCAAC
AACGGCATGCGCCGCGACTTCCTGGTGCGCGACTGCAAGACCGGCGAGATCCTG
ACCCGCTGCACCTCCCTGAGCGTGCTGATGAACACCCGCACCCGCCGCCTGAGCA
CCATCCCCGACGAGGTGCGCGGCGAGATCGGCCCCGCCTTCATCGACAACGTGG
                            240

CCGTGAAGGACGACGAGATCAAGAAGCTGCAGAAGCTGAACGACTCCACCGCCG
ACTACATCCAGGGCGGCCTGACCCCCCGCTGGAACGACCTGGACGTGAACCAGC
ACGTGAACAACCTGAAGTACGTGGCCTGGGTGTTCGAGACCGTGCCCGACAGCA
TCTTCGAGTCCCACCACATCAGCTCCTTCACCCTGGAGTACCGCCGCGAGTGCAC
CCGCGACTCCGTGCTGCGCAGCCTGACCACCGTGAGCGGCGGCAGCTCCGAGGC
CGGCCTGGTGTGCGACCACCTGCTGCAGCTGGAGGGCGGCAGCGAGGTGCTGCG
CGCCCGCACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGCTGACCGACTCCTTCCGCGGCATCAGCGTG
ATCCCCGCCGAGCCCCGCGTGATGGACTACAAGGACCACGACGGCGACTACAAG
GACCACGACATCGACTACAAGGACGACGACGACAAGTGACTCGAGGCAGCAGC
AGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCG
CCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCA
GTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATT
TGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAAC
CGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCAC
TGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACC
TGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAA
ATGGAAAGCTTGAGCTC
SEQ IDNO: 54
Relevant expression construct for codon optimized coding region of Ulmus americana broad
specificity thioesterase with Chiarella protothecoides stearoyl ACP desaturase transit
peptide.
GGTACCCGCCTGCAACGCAAGGGCAGCCACAGCCGCTCCCACCCGCCGCTGAAC
CGACACGTGCTTGGGCGCCTGCCGCCTGCCTGCCGCATGCTTGTGCTGGTGAGGC
TGGGCAGTGCTGCCATGCTGATTGAGGCTTGGTTCATCGGGTGGAAGCTTATGTG
TGTGCTGGGCTTGCATGCCGGGCAATGCGCATGGTGGCAAGAGGGCGGCAGCAC
TTGCTGGAGCTGCCGCGGTGCCTCCAGGTGGTTCAATCGCGGCAGCCAGAGGGA
TTTCAGATGATCGCGCGTACAGGTTGAGCAGCAGTGTCAGCAAAGGTAGCAGTTT
GCCAGAATGATCGGTTCAGCTGTTAATCAATGCCAGCAAGAGAAGGGGTCAAGT
GCAAACACGGGCATGCCACAGCACGGGCACCGGGGAGTGGAATGGCACCACCA
AGTGTGTGCGAGCCAGCATCGCCGCCTGGCTGTTTCAGCTACAACGGCAGGAGTC
ATCCAACGTAACCATGAGCTGATCAACACTGCAATCATCGGGCGGGCGTGATGC
AAGCATGCCTGGCGAAGACACATGGTGTGCGGATGCTGCCGGCTGCTGCCTGCT
GCGCACGCCGTTGAGTTGGCAGCAGGCTCAGCCATGCACTGGATGGCAGCTGGG
CTGCCACTGCAATGTGGTGGATAGGATGCAAGTGGAGCGAATACCAAACCCTCT
GGCTGCTTGCTGGGTTGCATGGCATCGCACCATCAGCAGGAGCGCATGCGAAGG
GACTGGCCCCATGCACGCCATGCCAAACCGGAGCGCACCGAGTGTCCACACTGT
CACCAGGCCCGCAAGCTTTGCAGAACCATGCTCATGGACGCATGTAGCGCTGAC
GTCCCTTGACGGCGCTCCTCTCGGGTGTGGGAAACGCAATGCAGCACAGGCAGC
AGAGGCGGCGGCAGCAGAGCGGCGGCAGCAGCGGCGGGGGCCACCCTTCTTGCG
GGGTCGCGCCCCAGCCAGCGGTGATGCGCTGATCCCAAACGAGTTCACATTCATT
TGCATGCCTGGAGAAGCGAGGCTGGGGCCTTTGGGCTGGTGCAGCCCGCAATGG
AATGCGGGACCGCCAGGCTAGCAGCAAAGGCGCCTCCCCTACTCCGCATCGATG
TTCCATAGTGCATTGGACTGCATTTGGGTGGGGCGGCCGGCTGTTTCTTTCGTGTT
GCAAAACGCGCCAGCTCAGCAACCTGTCCCGTGGGTCCCCCGTGCCGATGAAAT
CGTGTGCACGCCGATCAGCTGATTGCCCGGCTCGCGAAGTAGGCGCCCTCCTTTC
TGCTCGCCCTCTCTCCGTCCCGCCTCTAGAATATCAATGATCGAGCAGGACGGCC
TCCACGCCGGCTCCCCCGCCGCCTGGGTGGAGCGCCTGTTCGGCTACGACTGGGC
CCAGCAGACCATCGGCTGCTCCGACGCCGCCGTGTTCCGCCTGTCCGCCCAGGGC
                                               241

CGCCCCGTGCTGTTCGTGAAGACCGACCTGTCCGGCGCCCTGAACGAGCTGCAGG
ACGAGGCCGCCCGCCTGTCCTGGCTGGCCACCACCGGCGTGCCCTGCGCCGCCGT
GCTGGACGTGGTGACCGAGGCCGGCCGCGACTGGCTGCTGCTGGGCGAGGTGCC
CGGCCAGGACCTGCTGTCCTCCCACCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGAAGGTGTCCATCATG
GCCGACGCCATGCGCCGCCTGCACACCCTGGACCCCGCCACCTGCCCCTTCGACC
ACCAGGCCAAGCACCGCATCGAGCGCGCCCGCACCCGCATGGAGGCCGGCCTGG
TGGACCAGGACGACCTGGACGAGGAGCACCAGGGCCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGCTGT
TCGCCCGCCTGAAGGCCCGCATGCCCGACGGCGAGGACCTGGTGGTGACCCACG
GCGACGCCTGCCTGCCCAACATCATGGTGGAGAACGGCCGCTTCTCCGGCTTCAT
CGACTGCGGCCGCCTGGGCGTGGCCGACCGCTACCAGGACATCGCCCTGGCCAC
CCGCGACATCGCCGAGGAGCTGGGCGGCGAGTGGGCCGACCGCTTCCTGGTGCT
GTACGGCATCGCCGCCCCCGACTCCCAGCGCATCGCCTTCTACCGCCTGCTGGAC
GAGTTCTTCTGACAATTGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGAC
GCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATAT
CCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTT
TGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCC
CTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCC
CTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTC
CGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCA
CGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAGGATCCCGCGTCTCGAACAGAGC
GCGCAGAGGAACGCTGAAGGTCTCGCCTCTGTCGCACCTCAGCGCGGCATACAC
CACAATAACCACCTGACGAATGCGCTTGGTTCTTCGTCCATTAGCGAAGCGTCCG
GTTCACACACGTGCCACGTTGGCGAGGTGGCAGGTGACAATGATCGGTGGAGCT
GATGGTCGAAACGTTCACAGCCTAGGGATATCGAATTCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGAC
ACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCA
ACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCG
ATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGAC
ATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTAC
ACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTC
GTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACACTAGTATGGCCACCGCATCCACTTTCTCGGCG
TTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACCTGCGTCGCTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCC
CAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCGCGGGCGCGCCCAGCTGCCCGACTGGAGCATGC
TGCTGGCCGCGATCACCACCCTGTTCCTGGCGGCCGAGAAGCAGTGGATGATGCT
GGACTGGAAGCCCAAGCGCCCCGACATGCTGGTGGACCCCTTCGGCCTGGGCCG
CTTCGTGCAGGACGGCCTGGTGTTCCGCAACAACTTCAGCATCCGCAGCTACGAG
ATCGGCGCGGACCGCACCGCCAGCATCGAGACCCTGATGAACCACCTGCAGGAG
ACCGCCCTGAACCACGTGAAGAGCGTGGGCCTGCTGGAGGACGGCCTGGGCAGC
ACCCGCGAGATGAGCCTGCGCAACCTGATCTGGGTGGTGACCAAGATGCAGGTG
GCGGTGGACCGCTACCCCACCTGGGGCGACGAGGTGCAGGTGAGCAGCTGGGCG
ACCGCCATCGGCAAGAACGGCATGCGCCGCGAGTGGATCGTGACCGACTTCCGC
ACCGGCGAGACCCTGCTGCGCGCCACCAGCGTGTGGGTGATGATGAACAAGCTG
ACCCGCCGCATCAGCAAGATCCCCGAGGAGGTGTGGCACGAGATCGGCCCCAGC
TTCATCGACGCGCCCCCCCTGCCCACCGTGGAGGACGACGGCCGCAAGCTGACC
CGCTTCGACGAGAGCAGCGCCGACTTCATCCGCAAGGGCCTGACCCCCCGCTGG
AGCGACCTGGACATCAACCAGCACGTGAACAACGTGAAGTACATCGGCTGGCTG
CTGGAGAGCGCGCCCCCCGAGATCCACGAGAGCCACGAGATCGCCAGCCTGACC
CTGGAGTACCGCCGCGAGTGCGGCCGCGACAGCGTGCTGAACAGCGCCACCAAG
GTGAGCGACAGCAGCCAGCTGGGCAAGAGCGCCGTGGAGTGCAACCACCTGGTG
CGCCTGCAGAACGGCGGCGAGATCGTGAAGGGCCGCACCGTGTGGCGCCCCAAG
CGCCCCCTGTACAACGACGGCGCCGTGGTGGACGTGCCCGCCAAGACCAGCGAT
                           242

GACGATGACAAGCTGGGATGACTCGAGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACA
CACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGAC
CTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTG
TACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGC
ATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGT
CCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTG
GTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAA
TGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTTGAGCTC
SEQ IDNO: 55
Prototheca moriformis FatB/A promoter/5'UTR
CCTGTCGATCGAAGAGAAGGAGACATGTGTACATTATTGGTGTGAGGGCGCTGA
ATCGGCCATTTTTTAAAATGATCACGCTCATGCCAATAGACGCGGCACATAACGA
CGTTCAAACCCCCGCCAAAGCCGCGGACAACCCCATCCCTCCACACCCCCCACAC
AAAGAACCCGCCACCGCTTACCTTGCCCACGAGGTAGGCCTTTCGTTGCGCAAAA
CCGGCCTCGGTGATGAATGCATGCCCGTTCCTGACGAGCGCTGCCCGGGCCAACA
CGCTCTTTTGCTGCGTCTCCTCAGGCTTGGGGGCCTCCTTGGGCTTGGGTGCCGCC
ATGATCTGCGCGCATCAGAGAAACGTTGCTGGTAAAAAGGAGCGCCCGGCTGCG
CAATATATATATAGGCATGCCAACACAGCCCAACCTCACTCGGGAGCCCGTCCCA
CCACCCCCAAGTCGCGTGCCTTGACGGCATACTGCTGCAGAAGCTTCATGAGAAT
GATGCCGAACAAGAGGGGCACGAGGACCCAATCCCGGACATCCTTGTCGATAAT
GATCTCGTGAGTCCCCATCGTCCGCCCGACGCTCCGGGGAGCCCGCCGATGCTCA
AGACGAGAGGGCCCTCGACCAGGAGGGGCTGGCCCGGGCGGGCACTGGCGTCG
AAGGTGCGCCCGTCGTTCGCCTGCAGTCCTATGCCACAAAACAAGTCTTCTGACG
GGGTGCGTTTGCTCCCGTGCGGGCAGGCAACAGAGGTATTCACCCTGGTCATGGG
GAGATCGGCGATCGAGCTGGGATAAGAGATACTTCTGGCAAGCAATGACAACTT
GTCAGGACCGGACCGTGCCATATATTTCTCACCTAGCGCCGCAAAACCTAACAAT
TTGGGAGTCACTGTGCCACTGAGTTCGACTGGTAGCTGAATGGAGTCGCTGCTCC
ACTAAACGAATTGTCAGCACCGCCAGCCGGCCGAGGACCCGAGTCATAGCGAGG
GTAGTAGCGCGCC
SEQ IDNO: 56
Prototheca moriformis NRAMP metal transporter promoter/5 'UTR
ACTAATTGCAATCGTGCAGTAATCATCGATATGGTCACAAGTAGATCCCCTACTG
ACACCCTCTCGTACATGTAGGCAATGTCATCGGCGCCGTCCTGCTGACCGATGCC
GACGTAGCAGAGCAGACCCGGGCCGATCTGGGATACGAGCCGGCCCTCCACCTG
CGCTCGAGGTGGAATCAAGTAAATAACCAATACACTTTTCGACACCACACAGAG
TTGCACGGACGGTGGCGTACCTCTACGCTCGCGCTCTTCACGCGCTGGACGACCG
CACGCATGAGCCCGGGTGGCTTGGTCTGGGCTGCAAAAATGCACAACAAACAAG
TATCAGACGCTCATGGATGCACACGCGCTCCCAAGCACGCTCAGACTAAATATTA
CAGTAGCTCGTATCTGATAAGATATCGAGACATACCGCTCAACTCACCCGCAAAC
TGCGCCCCGCCAGGTGATGCGCACAGGGCCCCACCATGCGATCCATCGCATCGCT
CCTCGAGGGCGCTATCACGTGGCCGGAGAGCGTTCACAGCGTACGCCACTGTATC
TGGGCGGTATGCGGTCCGTCAACATGGAGACAGATACCCGCACCACCACCTTGC
AAGCTCTTCCATATTGGAAGTAGAAAATTGTAATTGTATCATCGCACGAGGGGCC
AACTTGCCGTCGGCGAGCTGGGCGACGAACACCACCTGGACGTTGTCGAGACTC
GCTCGTGCCGTGCGCCGGGCCGCTGGGTATCCAGACCGTCGCC
                                         243

SEQ IDNO: 57
Prototheca moriformis FLAP Flagellar-associated protein promoter/5'UTR
CAACGACAACCAGCAGGCAACTCGGTCAGCGACCCAACACGCGAGTCAAATTGT
TGCGTGTTCTTGCCTTGTCTATTTACTGTGATAGCAAGACTGTCGGTCAGTCAATA
CCGCGGTGCGCACGTCGGGGTGCCAAGCCTAGCAGAGCACGGGACGGCTGGTGC
TGTGCGCCAGCTCAGCTCGCTTCGCGACCAATTGTAGGACCGGCAAAGTCACCAA
AACATGCCAGCGGTGCGATTCAATTGGTCATGAGCTCTACAAAATTGTTTTGTGC
GTCGCGCAGGTATCCAACGGCGCGGCAGAGAAAGTTTGACAGCTCTCGATTTCAT
CTCGGAAAAATGGGGAGAATTTATGACACACAAGTGCGCAGGCGGCCCAGGCGG
CCAGCATATTCTGGCGTGACCTGGGCCGCCCACAAAATGCTTGGATGCACTCTAA
AATAATTATATTTGCCATGAACAAGGGAAGAGTTACCGCACCCAGCCCTAGACTT
GGGCGCCCGAGCAAGGTTACGTCAAGCCACCTTCGCCCATCGCCCAACTCCGTAT
TCCCCGACAGCCGCACGTGGCCCTCGCCGGAATGAACCCTGAATCGGCATCACG
CCACGCGTTCGCCAATCGTTCCGCTCTCTGGCTTCATCGGCCTGCGCCTTCACGTC
GTGGTCACGACAGTGCATTCATACTTCCATTTGCACCTCGGCACACACTTTTACG
CATCGCCTACCCTTGCTGCGGCAGTCTAGGGTCACTTTGCAGCCATGGGACAGTG
CTACACCACCGTCGGTGCGCAAAGCTATTTCAAGTGAACCGTGGGCGGAAAAAA
GGAATGTACACTGTCTCAACCGACTCCTACAATTGTTTACCATGCAGATCAGAGC
TCGACGGCCATCATCGAGCAGGTGTGGGGCCTTGGTGGCGCGGCGCGGGGCCCC
AGGGCGTCGCAGGCATTGATGGCACTCTGAGACTTTCGCACGCGCATGAGGGAC
CCCATCAAGAGAAGAGTGTGTCTTTATGTCCCCATTCATGATGATGTATCTTGTG
ATTGTCGCAGTTTGGCAAGTTTAACCGGATCGCCGCTCCAGGTGTGGCGTGGCGG
ATTTTTCTAGGGGTGCTTGAGCAGTCG
SEQ IDNO: 58
Prototheca moriformis SulfRed Sulfite reductase promoter/5'UTR
GGCCCAGGGCCCTGCGGATGGCCCACACCAGATCTAGCCTCTCTTATGCCATGCC
CGCCTCGCTGCCCGTCGTATCCCCCCGCCGATCCGCGCGTAGGGGACCGCGGCCT
GACCCACGCCACGAAAGAGCTTTGCTCCTCAATTTCTCGCCAACAGAACCGTATC
AAACGCTCAACGCCTATCCCGAACAATCCGTATTCACACCAAATCGAGTATACCG
GACTGGTTTGCCTAGTCTTGAAGGAAATGATCCCGTCCATGCTCGGAAGGGGGA
GCGGGCGGAGGATCCTACTCATCTCTGAAATGGGATTGGTCCGAAGATGGGTTG
GGCAAGCACGTGCCAAACCCCAGCGAGTTGCTGACGAGCAGGCTCATCCAATCC
CCCGGCGAATCCTCCCTCACGCCCCGCATGCATACAAGTCCCTCCCACACGCCCC
CTCCCATCCATTTTCGCCTGGTCCGAACGCGAGCGGCGTCGAGGCGGACCACTTG
CTCCGCAGCGCCGTCTGGGTCTCCACCCCACAGCGGCTTTGCTGCCAGAGGCACC
CCCCTTGCCCCACCTCCTCTTGCAGCC
SEQ IDNO: 59
Prototheca moriformis SugT Sugar tranporter promoter/5"UTR
CCAGGCAGGCGGTAGGGTTGCCGATTGCTTGAGCGAATTGGAAGATATAATTTTT
TGTGGTGTCCCTGGACGCTGTTTGTGGCGCTCCTTTTTGGAGAAGATTGCGTGGG
GGAGCTTTCCATGTACCACGCTTCCTTCTGAAAGGATTCTGGCCGAGTCCTGATG
AGCCCAAAGAAAACACCTGCCTTTCAGTGCTGGCACTCTGAAAACGTCAACAGA
TGATTATACATGTCACAAAAGGCAGCCGATTAGGAACGGGAGCTCTGGCCGTTC
GTTTGGCTGCCTGGGCTGATTGAAGTGATCCACCCTGTTCGAATGAAGGCGGTCG
AGTCGAATTATCGACCGGAGCTGTCGGGAAGGCGTCCGGGGCAGAGTGAGGTGC
                                            244

TGCGGCCTGGTTGTCGTTCAAAAAGACCCCGGTAGCCCAACAATCACGAACGAA
AGGAATATAATTGCTTGCATACTATACATTCAGTTTCTATGTGGCGGGTAGACAA
GTCTCATGGGCTTCTAAAGGCTGTCCCTTGAAGGCTACTTATAAAAACTTGCTGC
GCCATGGCACGGATCGCGCTTGCGCAGGCTGCAACCCTGCGCGCAAGGTCAAAT
ACACAGCAAAAGATACTAACAGAATTTCTAAAAACATTTAAATATTTGTTTCGAC
CAGCCAATTGTGGTCGTAGGCACGCAAAAGACTTTGTTTTGCGCCCACCGAGCAT
CCACGCTGGCAGTCAAGCCAGTCCGATGTGCATTGCGTGGCAGCATCGAGGAGC
ATCAAAAACCTCGTGCACGCTTTTCTGTCAATCATCATCAACCACTCCACCATGT
ATACCCGATGCATCGCGGTGCGCAGCGCGCCACGCGTCCCAGACCCGCCCAAAA
ACCCAGCAGCGGCGAAAGCAAATCTTCACTTGCCCGAAACCCCGAGCAGCGGCA
TTCACACGTGGGCGAAAACCCCACTTGCCCTAACAGGCGTATGTCTGCTGTCACG
ATGCCTGACAACGGTATTATAGATATACACTGATTAATGTTTGAGTGTGTGCGAG
TCGCGAATCAGGAATGAATTGCTAGTAGGCACTCCGACCGGGCGGGGGCCGAGG
GACCA
SEQ IDNO: 60
Prototheca moriformis Amt03-Ammonium transporter promoter/5'UTR
GGCCGACAGGACGCGCGTCAAAGGTGCTGGGCGTGTATGCCCTGGTCGGCAGGT
CGTTGCTGTTGCTGCGCTCGTGGTTCCGCAACCCTGATTTTGGCGTCTTATTCTGG
CGTGGCAAGCGCTGACGCCCGCGAGCCGGGCCGGCGGCGATGCGGTGTCTCACG
GCTGCCGAGCTCCAAGGGAGGCAAGAGCGCCCGGATCAGCTGAAGGGCTTTACA
CGCAAGGTACAGCCGCTCCTGCAAGGCTGCGTGGTGGACTTGAACCTGTAGGTCC
TCTGCTGAAGTTCCTCCACTACCTCACCAGGCCCAGCAGACCAAAGCACAGGCTT
TTCAGGTCCGTGTCATCCACTCTAAAACACTCGACTACGACCTACTGATGGCCCT
AGATTCTTCATCAACAATGCCTGAGACACTTGCTCAGAATTGAAACTCCCTGAAG
GGACCACCAGAGGCCCTGAGTTGTTCCTTCCCCCCGTGGCGAGCTGCCAGCCAGG
CTGTACCTGTGATCGAGGCTGGCGGGAAAATAGGCTTCGTGTGCTCAGGTCATGG
GAGGTGCAGGACAGCTCATGAAACGCCAACAATCGCACAATTCATGTCAAGCTA
ATCAGCTATTTCCTCTTCACGAGCTGTAATTGTCCCAAAATTCTGGTCTACCGGGG
GTGATCCTTCGTGTACGGGCCCTTCCCTCAACCCTAGGTATGCGCGCATGCGGTC
GCCGCGCAACTCGCGCGAGGGCCGAGGGTTTGGGACGGGCCGTCCCGAAATGCA
GTTGCACCCGGATGCGCGGCGCCTTTCTTGCGATAATTTATGCAATGGACTGCTC
TGCAAATTTCTGGGTCTGTCGCCAACCCTAGGATCAGCGGCGTAGGATTTCGTAA
TCATTCGTCCTGATGGGGAGCTACCGACTACCCTAATATCAGCCCGGCTGCCTGA
CGCCAGCGTCCACTTTTGCGTACACATTCCATTCGTGCCCAAGACATTTCATTGTG
GTGCGAAGCGTCCCCAGTTACGCTCACCTGTTTCCCGACCTCCTTACTGTTCTGTC
GACAGAGCGGGCCCACAGGCCGGTCGCAGCC
SEQ IDNO: 61
Prototheca moriformis Amt02-Ammonium transporter promoter/5'UTR
TCACCAGCGGACAAAGCACCGGTGTATCAGGTCCGTGTCATCCACTCTAAAGAG
CTCGACTACGACCTACTGATGGCCCTAGATTCTTCATCAAAAACGCCTGAGACAC
TTGCCCAGGATTGAAACTCCCTGAAGGGACCACCAGGGGCCCTGAGTTGTTCCTT
CCCCCCGTGGCGAGCTGCCAGCCAGGCTGTACCTGTGATCGGGGCTGGCGGGAA
AACAGGCTTCGTGTGCTCAGGTTATGGGAGGTGCAGGACAGCTCATTAAACGCC
AACAATCGCACAATTCATGGCAAGCTAATCAGTTATTTCCCATTAACGAGCTATA
ATTGTCCCAAAATTCTGGTCTACCGGGGGTGATCCTTCGTGTACGGGCCCTTCCCT
CAACCCTAGGTATGCGCACATGCGGTCGCCGCGCAACGCGCGCGAGGGCCGAGG
                                       245

G1TTGGGACGGGCCGTCCCGAAATGCAG1TGCACCCGGATGCGTGGCACCT1TTT
TGCGATAATTTATGCAATGGACTGCTCTGCAAAATTCTGGCTCTGTCGCCAACCC
TAGGATCAGCGGTGTAGGATTTCGTAATCATTCGTCCTGATGGGGAGCTACCGAC
TGCCCTAGTATCAGCCCGACTGCCTGACGCCAGCGTCCACT1TTGTGCACACA1T
CCA1TCGTGCCCAAGACAT1TCA1TGTGGTGCGAAGCGTCCCCAGTTACGCTCAC
CTGATCCCCAACCTCCTTATTG1TCTGTCGACAGAGTGGGCCCAGAGGCCGGTCG
CAGCC
SEQ IDNO: 62
Protoheca moriformis Aat-OlAmino Acid Transporter promoter/5'UTR
CGAAGGGGTCTGCATCGATTCGCGCGGTCTGGAGGCCAGCGTGACTGCTCGCGA
AAATGCTCTGCCGTGTCGGGCTCTGGCTGGGGCGGCCAGAGATCTCACCGTGCCA
CACGCAACTGCCGCACTCTGTGCCCGCCACCTGGCGCGCACATGCGACCTCTTCC
CCGTCATACCCTCTCCTCATGTGATCTTTCCACACGAGTGACGCAGGTGCGCGGA
GTGGAGGGAATCAGGACGT1TTCAAGGTACCTGCTCGAGCCGTACCAACAGCTG
CCGCCCGGCAAGGAAGAGATCGAGGCAGAGA1TGCCCGGCTGGAGGCCCGGATA
ACGGAGCTCAAGAGCAAGCTGTCCGAGTGAGACCGCCCAGGTGCACGTGTCGAC
TCGCTATGACATGTACTCGACACAACATGAGGAA1TCATCGAA1TTGTAGGAAGC
GGGCATTGGTACGGGAGTGGGAAAGCGAAAAAACCTCCCTCCGGCAGTGCCATC
TGCCGGAGTCGAACGTTGATAGGGTTCTCGTGACAGGGTGTGACCTCTCAGCCTT
GCATCAATTAAACGCTATAGACATTATCAGTAACCGTGAATCCCGCATTGGATGC
CACCCGCGCGACCA1TGGGGACCTGCATTACAGATCTAGGTGAGATGACAGCGA
GGCAACTTCGGCCCGCGGCCCAGCTTGCGGCGCACCAATA1TGGTCACGGGAAG
CCACACACCGACCATAAATGAATAC1TGTAAGCTATGTCAACCGATCAATGGCGT
CGAAAGTGTGCCACGAGGATCCATCTGGCGGGGCGGCGTGGCGCACAAGCGCAG
TCGCAATTTCTCGGACCCATCTGACCTAGGCCCAGCGCCGCGGGAGAAATCCCCG
GCGGGTCCTCCACGCAGTAACCCTAATGAGTATCGAGCGCCGACCA1TTACACCA
TCGCCCCCGAAATCC1TCCGACATTA1TATTATCTT1TAGATCTTGGAACAGACTC
TGCCAACC
SEQ IDNO: 63
Prototheca moriformis Aat02-Amino acid transporter promoter/5'UTR
AGAGAGCGGAGGTGGGGTTGTGAGGTGGGGTTGCTGACCAGGAGCTCGCGTCGC
CGAGCGCGACTCGCACACGGTCCAGTTACCCCCCCCTCCGCCCAAACGCAAGCCT
CCCATC1TGATGCC1TTCCGGCCACCTATACTATTTC1TAGTTCGCTGTAACATCC
AGACCGTCCTGAATAATAACAATGCCCTGTGTCAAGTGCA1TCCTAAAAAAATTC
TGTCCCAACCAACAATCCCACCTGAAATACCACCAGCCCTGCCCAGTACACTC1T
CCAATACCATCTCCCTACCTCCACGCGCAAGCGACCCCCATGCGCGACCAGGCTC
GAAAGTGATTTATGACTTGAGACGAGCGAGTGGCGGCGCGGTCGACTGCCTT1TC
ATCACGTGCCGTACGTCGGCGACCGCTAGGGC1TTGCACGGCAACGCACGGC1TC
GCCAACCCGACCAGCCAGGACCTCGACTACTCTACCGCGAATTCGCCTCAAGAA
GTCGCCAAATGTGCCATACACCATTCCTTACAGCACTG1TCAAACTTGATGCCAA
1TTTGACATTCGGGTTGCTCGTTGGCTGCGCCCACATCGGCCGTGAGTGCAGCAG
GCGGGATCGGACACGGAGGACGCGGCGTCACGCCCCGAACGCAGCCCGTAACTC
TACATCAACACGACGTG1TGCGTAATCCCGCCCGGCTGCGCATCGTGCCAACCCA
1TCGCGATGGATGGTCGGAAAATGGTGTGCCAACTGCCCTGAGGGAGGCTCTCG
CGAAACGGGCACGTCCCTGAAACCGAAACTGTGGCC1TGTCGTCGGCCACGCAA
GCACGTGGACCCTAAACACCAAGAAAATCAGTAAACAAGGTTGACATCCTCTAC
                                          246

GGGCGAATTGTTTGCCCAACCCTTCATCGCACACTGCCATTATAATGCATCTAGC
TCGGCGACAAGTTTAGAAAAGGCAGGCTGCATTGTTCCATTTCGCCGTGGCGGCG
TGGGTGCCCATTTTACGAGGTTTGGGCTCCCGGGCAGCGACCGAGCCAGGTCGA
GTCCCTCTCGCCCGTCGACAATGTTGCGAACCCCACAAGCGGCTAACAACAACTT
GATGGTACCTGTACACTGCCAATTCCTTCTTCCCCGGCCGAGGTTTACACGTGAT
GGCCATGGCTTCGCATTCAGGCCGACTTCCCATTCCGACTTTCCAGAGGGTCCGC
GGACGCTGGGGGTTGGCTGCCTGAGGCCCACCCTTTGTTCCCCGCGTCCCGACAA
ACACAATTGCGTTACATAAGGGGGAGCCGCCCCCGTTCAGAGTGCAGAAATCTTT
CACTATATTTTCCAGTCGTCAGCGAAATCAAGT
SEQ IDNO: 64
Prototheca moriformis Aat03-Amino acid transporter promoter/S'UTR
GATGGTGGGGTGTCTGCCTTGGGCTGGGTGATGGAGGCTGGTGGTGCGCGGGTTT
CCTGATGCATTCTATCTACGCAGTGTCATGGTGTCCATTCCACACACCAGTACAC
CCTTACACTAAGGATCCATCCCTCCTTCCCTCTTCAGGACTACATGGACCCCACG
AGCTACCGACCGGGCTTTCTCAAAAACGTCAAGGTCATGT1TGACATGCGGGACG
TGGTGGACGACGTGCAAGGTGCGTCCGGAGTGCGCGCAAATGAGCAAGTCGGGC
AATGTGTCGGGGTGGGCACCGGGGCTGGAGATCCGCGATCCCCGAGAAAACGCC
GTACCACCCCCCGCGCTATTCCCTCGATTGCGCGCAGATGTGGTGACCGACACGG
GGGACAACCTGGCGGACATGGGGCGCCGGACCTGGAAGCACGCCAAGTCGCACA
CGGGGAGGCTCGTGCAGTCCCCCCCATCGTACCTCAAGGGTCTCTTTGGTCGCGA
TCCAAAGTACGCTGGTGGCATGGCATGCCCGAAATGAACATCATGTGTGATCTCC
GATTGCCAATGGCCACCTCCACGGACCACCTTGCAGGCGGAAGCGCAATCCAGG
GCCCGAGCCTGACGAGGACGGAGACTCCTCGTCCAGCGCGGGGTCCCCGACCCG
ACGCAGCAGCCGACCCCTGCTAACCCGGCAACGATCGGACCAGCAACCTTGCTG
TAGTTCCGATCCGTGATGACGGGCATTGCCGCCGCTCGATCCGCTTTGATGACTG
TCTATTATTTGCGCGGAGCCCCCTCGGAACCCTACCCCGCTCTTGCAAGCCCCTTG
CATCGGAGATCCTCGTGCGCCCGCCATGACCCCACTGGATTGCCCAACATCCTTC
TTTATCGTGTAAAATGTGATTCCTCGGCTGCAATCGACTGGCCTTCGCTTCTGGCC
CCAAGAGGGCTCGAACGTGCGGCAGCGAGGGCGCTGACACACCCAAGCCCTAGG
GCTTTCAACGTCGGCTGCCAGGCCGGATAGGGGGATCGCCTCCTTTCCACCACCC
ACCTACGAGGGATTCGAGTCGGCTTCCAGCTCAGCTATTCGGCCGCGCCCCCGGC
CCTGCAGACGTCCTCCAGTTTCCGAACAGGTCGCTCTCAGAACACCTGCCGCGGC
TGCGATACGGCAGGCTCTCAAAGCGTCGAC
SEQ IDNO: 65
Prototheca moriformis Aat04-Amino acid transporter promoter/S'UTR
CGCGTGGAGCGGTGCGTGCGGATGCCGCGCGCCTGCCAAGGCCTTTTGTATGCCT
GGCCTGGGAAGTTTCCTGACTGAAGCATCTTCAAGATGCTCTCTCACGACCAGCG
ACACCAACACCGTCACTTTTTGCCCCTCCTGCCGCAGGTGCCACTTTCTACTTTGA
CGTCTTCTCCAGGCGGTACATTGCGGGACTGAGCGCCAATTCGGCCAAGAACAG
CGCTGTCGACTTGAGGAGGCAGGGGTCCGTCGACTCTGCCGAGTGACACGCCTTC
GACCCGACTGTACTACGGCCTGCTGAAGAGTGGGTCTCGCCGGCCGGCGTGACC
GGCCCTGTGCCCACAATCGACCATCTATTCGCTCCTTGTCATCTGGCGCCGTCAAT
TGCCCGCGACTTGACGGCAACTGGCTCGATCGAGTCGTATTGAAAAAGCACGTTT
TGTCCTACAGGGCCGCGGTCCGTTACCAACGTGGTTCTCGTTAGGTTTTCGTCGG
GCGGTGGTGCGCGAACTGTCCGATGCCATCCCGGCAAACCCCAGCAAGGTCGCC
AGTCTGGTTCTGACGCAATAGAGTGCGTTTTGGGCCAGTCTAAAAATTCGTCTGG
                                          247

CATGACGTGGCTCCACATCGTACCCGGAGCCTGCCTTGGTAATGTGAGGCACCGG
TGCCAACTCCATTATGGCAGGCATCGAGCGCGCAGGTGAGTACATGACCTTCCGT
GAATTGGGAAGGCGAGCTTGTGTAACGCCTGCGATCGTGCCAGTGAGGCATCGT
AAACTCAAAATATTTTGTAGAAAGTGTCTGATGCCTGGTGAGGCTGCGTAGGGCA
AGGGCAAGCCCTTGGCAGATGGGTAATGGGTCCGGACCTCACAACAGCAACCCC
GCGTCCCCCTTAGGGCCCCTGAGGCTCGATGGCAGGGCCAGCGAGCCCGCGGCC
AAAGGGCGCCATCCCACGGTCGCCCAACGACTCCACGGGTCCTATACCTCATCTT
GAATGGCACTAAAAACTATAGAATATCGGGCACTGGTGGGCGTCTGGGGTACAG
CTGGCCGAGCGCAGTGGCAAACCCTAGGTCCCGCCTCAAGGGCGATTCCCGGGT
CAATGACACGCAAGCAAGATCACATGGCGCGGTCCGCCTCGCGGCTCCACACCC
AGGCCCTAGTTTCGCAACCCATAAATATCGCCCCGATACCATCATAAGCCAGCAA
ATAATTTTTTATCAGAGTTCCAAACCTCCTCAGCTGTGGGAAACCAGCCCACTCT
GAACG
SEQ IDNO: 66
Prototheca moriformis Aat05-Amino acid transporter promoter/5'UTR
CCGAGCAGTTCATGGCCAAGTACAAGGACTAGAGACCGGAGGTCGGTAGGCTGA
ATGGAGCTGGCGTCGTCGTGCGCGACGTGCACGCGATGCGATACTACGACCCCA
CAAACGCATGCCTCCCATCTTGATGCCTTTCCGGCCATTTATACTATTTCTCATTT
CGCTGTAACATCTTGAATAATAGAATTGCCCTGTGTCAAGTGGATTCCAAGAAAT
ATTCTGTCCCAACAAAACAACCCAACCTGAAAACAACCTCAAATACCACCAGCC
CTGCCCACCTGCCCAGTACACTTTTCCAATACCATCTCCCTACCTTCACGCGCAAG
CGGCACCCATGCGCGACCAGGCTCGAAAGGATTTCACGACTCAGGACGAGCGAG
TGGCGGCGCGACCGCCTGCCTGTTCGTCACGTGCCGTACGTCGGCGACCGCTAGA
GCTTTGCCTGGCAACCCCCGGCTTCGTCAACCCGGCCAGCCAGGATCTCGACCAC
TCTACCGCGAAATCGCCTCAAGAAGTCGCCAAAAGTGCCGTACACCATGCTTCGC
AGCGCTGTTCAAACTTGATGCCAATCTTGACAATCAGGTTGCTCGTTGGCTGCGT
CCACATCGGCCGTGATTGCAGCAGGCGGGGATCGGACACGGAGGACGCGGCGTC
ACGCCGCGAACGCAGCCCGTAACTCTACATCAACGCGATATGTTGCGTAATCCCG
CCCGGCTGCGCATTGTGACAACCCATTCGCGATGGATGGTCGGAAAATGGTGTGC
CAACTGCCCTGAGGGACTCTCTCGCGAAACGGGCACGTCCCTGTATCCGAAACTG
TGGCATGGCCTTGTCGACCACGCAAGCACGTGGACCCTAACACCACGAAAATAA
GTAAAAAAGGTTGACATCCTCTACGAGCGAATTGTTTGCTCGACCCTTCATCGCA
CACTGTCATTATAATGCATCTAGCTCGGCGACAAGTTTAAAAAAGGCAGGCTGCA
TTATTCCATTTTGCCGTGGCGGCATGGGTGCCCATTTTATGAGGTTTGGGCTCTTG
GGCAGCGACCGAGCCAGGTTGAGTCCCTCTCGCCCGTCGACAACGTTCCAAAGC
CCATAAGTGGCTAATAAACAACTTGATGGTACCTGTACACTGCCAGTTCCTTCTT
CCCCGGCCGAGGTTTACACGTGATGGCCATGGCTTCGCGTTTCAGGCTGACTTCC
CATTCCGACTTTCCAGAGGGTCCGCGGACGCCGGGGGTTGGCTGCGTGAGGCCC
ACCCCTTGTTCCCCGCGTCCCGACAAACACAATTGCGTTACATAAGGGGGAAGCC
GCCCCCCGTTCAGAGTGCAAACATCTTTCATTATATTTTTCAGTCGTCAGCGAAAT
CAAGTATGTCGCTGACAGGCATGAAGGCC
SEQ IDNO: 67
Relevant portions of the reporter construct for testing putative promoter/5'UTR of Prototheca
moriformis AatO 1.
GCTCTTCGGCCGCCGCCACTCCTGCTCGAGCGCGCCCGACTCGCGCTCCGCCTGC
GCCCGCGCGTGCGCCGCCAGCGCCTTGGCCTTTTCGCCGCGCTCGTGCGCGTCGC
                                               248

TGATGTCCATCACCAGGTCCATGAGGTCTGCCTTGCGCCGGCTGAGCCACTGC1T
CGTCCGGGCGGCCAAGAGGAGCATGAGGGAGGACTCCTGGTCCAGGGTCCTGAC
GTGGTCGCGGCTCTGGGAGCGGGCCAGCATCATCTGGCTCTGCCGCACCGAGGC
CGCCTCCAACTGGTCCTCCAGCAGCCGCAGTCGCCGCCGACCCTGGCAGAGGAA
GACAGGTGAGGGGGGTATGAA1TGTACAGAACAACCACGAGCCTTGTCTAGGCA
GAATCCCTACCAGTCATGGC1TTACCTGGATGACGGCCTGCGAACAGCTGTCCAG
CGACCCTCGCTGCCGCCGCTTCTCCCGCACGCTTCT1TCCAGCACCGTGATGGCG
CGAGCCAGCGCCGCACGCTGGCGCTGCGCTTCGCCGATCTGAGGACAGTCGGGG
AACTCTGATCAGTCTAAACCCCCTTGCGCG1TAGTGTTGCCATCC1TTGCAGACC
GGTGAGAGCCGAC1TGTTGTGCGCCACCCCCCACACCACCTCCTCCCAGACCAAT
TCTGTCACCTTTTTGGCGAAGGCATCGGCCTCGGCCTGCAGAGAGGACAGCAGTG
CCCAGCCGCTGGGGGTTGGCGGATGCACGCTCAGGTACCC1TTCTTGCGCTATGA
CAC1TCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGC1TCCCGGCGCTGCATGC
AACACCGATGATGC1TCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCC1TCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCC
GATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGT1TAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGA1TGCAAAGA
CA1TATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTA
CACAGGCCACTCGAGC1TGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTC1TCCTC1T
CG1TTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACGGCGCGCCATGCTGCTGCAGGCC1TCCTGTTC
CTGCTGGCCGGCTTCGCCGCCAAGATCAGCGCCTCCATGACGAACGAGACGTCC
GACCGCCCCCTGGTGCACTTCACCCCCAACAAGGGCTGGATGAACGACCCCAAC
GGCCTGTGGTACGACGAGAAGGACGCCAAGTGGCACCTGTACTTCCAGTACAAC
CCGAACGACACCGTCTGGGGGACGCCCTTGTTCTGGGGCCACGCCACGTCCGAC
GACCTGACCAACTGGGAGGACCAGCCCATCGCCATCGCCCCGAAGCGCAACGAC
TCCGGCGCCTTCTCCGGCTCCATGGTGGTGGACTACAACAACACCTCCGGCTTCT
TCAACGACACCATCGACCCGCGCCAGCGCTGCGTGGCCATCTGGACCTACAACA
CCCCGGAGTCCGAGGAGCAGTACATCTCCTACAGCCTGGACGGCGGCTACACC1T
CACCGAGTACCAGAAGAACCCCGTGCTGGCCGCCAACTCCACCCAGTTCCGCGA
CCCGAAGGTCTTCTGGTACGAGCCCTCCCAGAAGTGGATCATGACCGCGGCCAA
GTCCCAGGACTACAAGATCGAGATCTACTCCTCCGACGACCTGAAGTCCTGGAA
GCTGGAGTCCGCG1TCGCCAACGAGGGC1TCCTCGGCTACCAGTACGAGTGCCCC
GGCCTGATCGAGGTCCCCACCGAGCAGGACCCCAGCAAGTCCTACTGGGTGATG
1TCATCTCCATCAACCCCGGCGCCCCGGCCGGCGGCTCC1TCAACCAGTAC1TCG
TCGGCAGC1TCAACGGCACCCACTTCGAGGCCTTCGACAACCAGTCCCGCGTGGT
GGAC1TCGGCAAGGACTACTACGCCCTGCAGACCTTCTTCAACACCGACCCGACC
TACGGGAGCGCCCTGGGCATCGCGTGGGCCTCCAACTGGGAGTACTCCGCCTTCG
TGCCCACCAACCCCTGGCGCTCCTCCATGTCCCTCGTGCGCAAG1TCTCCCTCAAC
ACCGAGTACCAGGCCAACCCGGAGACGGAGCTGATCAACCTGAAGGCCGAGCCG
ATCCTGAACATCAGCAACGCCGGCCCCTGGAGCCGGTTCGCCACCAACACCACG
1TGACGAAGGCCAACAGCTACAACGTCGACCTGTCCAACAGCACCGGCACCCTG
GAG1TCGAGCTGGTGTACGCCGTCAACACCACCCAGACGATCTCCAAGTCCGTGT
TCGCGGACCTCTCCCTCTGGTTCAAGGGCCTGGAGGACCCCGAGGAGTACCTCCG
CATGGGCTTCGAGGTGTCCGCGTCCTCC1TCTTCCTGGACCGCGGGAACAGCAAG
GTGAAGTTCGTGAAGGAGAACCCCTACTTCACCAACCGCATGAGCGTGAACAAC
CAGCCC1TCAAGAGCGAGAACGACCTGTCCTACTACAAGGTGTACGGCTTGCTGG
ACCAGAACATCCTGGAGCTGTACTTCAACGACGGCGACGTCGTGTCCACCAACA
CCTACTTCATGACCACCGGGAACGCCCTGGGCTCCGTGAACATGACGACGGGGG
TGGACAACCTGTTCTACATCGACAAGTTCCAGGTGCGCGAGGTCAAGTGACAATT
GGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGG
ACTG1TGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCC1TGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGC1TTTATCA
AACAGCCTCAGTGTGT1TGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGC1TTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGC
                           249

TIGTGCTATTIGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTICCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTI
GCATCCCAACCGCAACTIATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGC
TCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATICTCCTGG
TACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGAT
GGGAACACAAATGGAGGATCCCGCGTCTCGAACAGAGCGCGCAGAGGAACGCT
GAAGGTCTCGCCTCTGTCGCACCTCAGCGCGGCATACACCACAATAACCACCTGA
CGAATGCGCTIGGTICTTCGTCCATTAGCGAAGCGTCCGGTTCACACACGTGCCA
CGTIGGCGAGGTGGCAGGTGACAATGATCGGTGGAGCTGATGGTCGAAACGTTC
ACAGCCTAGGGATATCGAATTCATCGAATTTGTAGGAAGCGGGCATIGGTACGG
GAGTGGGAAAGCGAAAAAACCTCCCTCCGGCAGTGCCATCTGCCGGAGTCGAAC
GTIGATAGGGTICTCGTGACAGGGTGTGACCTCTCAGCCTTGCATCAATTAAACG
CTATAGACATTATCAGTAACCGTGAATCCCGCATTGGATGCCACCCGCGCGACCA
TIGGGGACCTGCATIACAGATCTAGGTGAGATGACAGCGAGGCAACTTCGGCCC
GCGGCCCAGCTTGCGGCGCACCAATATTGGTCACGGGAAGCCACACACCGACCA
TAAATGAATACTTGTAAGCTATGTCAACCGATCAATGGCGTCGAAAGTGTGCCAC
GAGGATCCATCTGGCGGGGCGGCGTGGCGCACAAGCGCAGTCGCAATITCTCGG
ACCCATCTGACCTAGGCCCAGCGCCGCGGGAGAAATCCCCGGCGGGTCCTCCAC
GCAGTAACCCTAATGAGTATCGAGCGCCGACCATTIACACCATCGCCCCCCGAAA
TCCTICCGACATIATIATIATCTITTAGATCTTGGAACAGACTCTGCCAACCACTA
GTATGGCCACCGCATCCACTTTCTCGGCGTICAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACCTGCG
TCGCTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCGCGG
GCGCGCCCCCGACTGGTCCATGCTGTTCGCCGTGATCACCACCATCTTCTCCGCC
GCCGAGAAGCAGTGGACCAACCTGGAGTGGAAGCCCAAGCCCAACCCCCCCCAG
CTGCTGGACGACCACTTCGGCCCCCACGGCCTGGTGTTCCGCCGCACCTTCGCCA
TCCGCAGCTACGAGGTGGGCCCCGACCGCTCCACCAGCATCGTGGCCGTGATGA
ACCACCTGCAGGAGGCCGCCCTGAACCACGCCAAGTCCGTGGGCATCCTGGGCG
ACGGCTICGGCACCACCCTGGAGATGTCCAAGCGCGACCTGATCTGGGTGGTGA
AGCGCACCCACGTGGCCGTGGAGCGCTACCCCGCCTGGGGCGACACCGTGGAGG
TGGAGTGCTGGGTGGGCGCCTCCGGCAACAACGGCCGCCGCCACGACTICCTGG
TGCGCGACTGCAAGACCGGCGAGATCCTGACCCGCTGCACCTCCCTGAGCGTGAT
GATGAACACCCGCACCCGCCGCCTGAGCAAGATCCCCGAGGAGGTGCGCGGCGA
GATCGGCCCCGCCTICATCGACAACGTGGCCGTGAAGGACGAGGAGATCAAGAA
GCCCCAGAAGCTGAACGACTCCACCGCCGACTACATCCAGGGCGGCCTGACCCC
CCGCTGGAACGACCTGGACATCAACCAGCACGTGAACAACATCAAGTACGTGGA
CTGGATCCTGGAGACCGTGCCCGACAGCATCTTCGAGAGCCACCACATCTCCTCC
TICACCATCGAGTACCGCCGCGAGTGCACCATGGACAGCGTGCTGCAGTCCCTGA
CCACCGTGAGCGGCGGCTCCTCCGAGGCCGGCCTGGTGTGCGAGCACCTGCTGC
AGCTGGAGGGCGGCAGCGAGGTGCTGCGCGCCAAGACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGC
TGACCGACTCCTICCGCGGCATCAGCGTGATCCCCGCCGAGTCCAGCGTGATGGA
CTACAAGGACCACGACGGCGACTACAAGGACCACGACATCGACTACAAGGACGA
CGACGACAAGTGACTCGAGTTAATIAACTCGAGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTA
TCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGC
CTIGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTIATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCT
TGTGTGTACGCGCTITIGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTIGCGAATACCACC
CCCAGCATCCCCTICCCTCGTTICATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTA
CGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACA
GCCTIGGTTIGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCA
CTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTGT
AGAGCTCCTIGTTTICCAGAAGGAGTIGCTCCTTGAGCCTTTCATICTCAGCCTCG
ATAACCTCCAAAGCCGCTCTAATTGTGGAGGGGGTICGAATTIAAAAGCTIGGAA
                             250

TGTTGGTTCGTGCGTCTGGAACAAGCCCAGACTTGTTGCTCACTGGGAAAAGGAC
CATCAGCTCCAAAAAACTTGCCGCTCAAACCGCGTACCTCTGCTTTCGCGCAATC
TGCCCTGTTGAAATCGCCACCACATTCATATTGTGACGCTTGAGCAGTCTGTAAT
TGCCTCAGAATGTGGAATCATCTGCCCCCTGTGCGAGCCCATGCCAGGCATGTCG
CGGGCGAGGACACCCGCCACTCGTACAGCAGACCATTATGCTACCTCACAATAG
TTCATAACAGTGACCATATTTCTCGAAGCTCCCCAACGAGCACCTCCATGCTCTG
AGTGGCCACCCCCCGGCCCTGGTGCTTGCGGAGGGCAGGTCAACCGGCATGGGG
CTACCGAAATCCCCGACCGGATCCCACCACCCCCGCGATGGGAAGAATCTCTCCC
CGGGATGTGGGCCCACCACCAGCACAACCTGCTGGCCCAGGCGAGCGTCAAACC
ATACCACACAAATATCCTTGGCATCGGCCCTGAATTCCTTCTGCCGCTCTGCTACC
CGGTGCTTCTGTCCGAAGCAGGGGTTGCTAGGGATCGCTCCGAGTCCGCAAACCC
TTGTCGCGTGGCGGGGCTTGTTCGAGCTTGTTCGAGCTTGAAGAGCCTCTAGAGT
CGACCTGCAGGCATGCAAGCTTGGCGTAATCATGGTCATAGCTGTTTCCTGTGTG
AAATTGTTATCCGCTCACAATTCCACACAACATACGAGCCGGAAGCATAAAGTGT
AAAGCCTGGGGTGCCTAATGAGTGAGCTAACTCACATTAATTGCGTTGCGCTCAC
TGCCCGCTTTCCAGTCGGGAAACCTGTCGTGCCAGCTGCATTAATGAATCGGCCA
ACGCGCGGGGAGAGGCGGTTTGCGTATTGGGCGCTCTTCC
SEQ IDNO: 68
C. camphora thioesterase forward primer
TACCCCGCCTGGGGCGACAC
SEQ IDNO: 69
C. camphora thioesterase reverse primer
CTTGCTCAGGCGGCGGGTGC
SEQ IDNO: 70
cdl89 forward primer
CCGGATCTCGGCCAGGGCTA
SEQ IDNO: 71
cdl89 reverse primer
TCGATGTCGTGCACCGTCGC
SEQ IDNO: 72
5' donor DNA sequence of Prototheca moriformis delta 12 FAD knockout homologous
recombination targeting construct
GCTCTTCGGGTTTGCTCACCCGCGAGGTCGACGCCCAGCATGGCTATCAAGACGA
ACAGGCAGCCTGTGGAGAAGCCTCCGTTCACGATCGGGACGCTGCGCAAGGCCA
TCCCCGCGCACTGTTTCGAGCGCTCGGCGCTTCGTAGCAGCATGTACCTGGCCTT
TGACATCGCGGTCATGTCCCTGCTCTACGTCGCGTCGACGTACATCGACCCTGCG
CCGGTGCCTACGTGGGTCAAGTATGGCGTCATGTGGCCGCTCTACTGGTTCTTCC
AGGTGTGTGTGAGGGTTGTGGTTGCCCGTATCGAGGTCCTGGTGGCGCGCATGGG
GGAGAAGGCGCCTGTCCCGCTGACCCCCCCGGCTACCCTCCCGGCACCTTCCAGG
GCGCCTTCGGCACGGGTGTCTGGGTGTGCGCGCACGAGTGCGGCCACCAGGCCTT
                                          251

TICCTCCAGCCAGGCCATCAACGACGGCGTGGGCCTGGTGTTCCACAGCCTGCTG
CTGGTGCCCTACTACTCCTGGAAGCACTCGCACCGCCGCCACCACTCCAACACGG
GGTGCCTGGACAAGGACGAGGTGTTTGTGCCGCCGCACCGCGCAGTGGCGCACG
AGGGCCTGGAGTGGGAGGAGTGGCTGCCCATCCGCATGGGCAAGGTGCTGGTCA
CCCTGACCCTGGGCTGGCCGCTGTACCTCATGTTCAACGTCGCCTCGCGGCCGTA
CCCGCGCTTCGCCAACCACTTIGACCCGTGGTCGCCCATCTTCAGCAAGCGCGAG
GTACCCTTICTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGAC
GGCTICCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTI
CGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTIAAATAGC
CAGGCCCCCGATIGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACA
CCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTIGTGATCGCACTCCGCT
AAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTICAGTCACAACCCGCAAACGGCGCGCC
SEQ IDNO: 73
3' donor DNA sequence of Prototheca moriformis delta 12 FAD knockout homologous
recombination targeting construct
CAATIGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTG
ATGGACTGTIGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTIGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTIT
ATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTTIGCGAGTIGCTAG
CTGCTIGTGCTATITGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTITCATATC
GCTIGCATCCCAACCGCAACTIATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTC
CTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATICTC
CTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTG
GGATGGGAACACAAATGGAGCATCGAGGTGGTCATCTCCGACCTCGCGTTGGTG
GCGGTGCTCAGCGGGCTCAGCGTGCTGGGCCGCACCATGGGCTGGGCCTGGCTG
GTCAAGACCTACGTGGTGCCCTACATGATCGTGAACATGTGGCTGGTGCTCATCA
CGCTGCTCCAGCACACGCACCCGGCCCTGCCGCACTACTICGAGAAGGACTGGG
ACTGGCTACGCGGCGCCATGGCCACCGTCGACCGCTCCATGGGCCCGCCCTTCAT
GGACAGCATCCTGCACCACATCTCCGACACCCACGTGCTGCACCACCTCTICAGC
ACCATCCCGCACTACCACGCCGAGGAGGCCTCCGCCGCCATCCGGCCCATCCTGG
GCAAGTACTACCAATCCGACAGCCGCTGGGTCGGCCGCGCCCTGTGGGAGGACT
GGCGCGACTGCCGCTACGTCGTCCCCGACGCGCCCGAGGACGACTCCGCGCTCTG
GTTCCACAAGTGAGCGCGCCTGCGCGAGGACGCAGAACAACGCTGCCGCCGTGT
CTTTIGCACGCGCGACTCCGGCGCTTCGCTGGTGGCACCCCCATAAAGAAACCCT
CAATICTGTITGTGGAAGACACGGTGTACCCCCACCCACCCACCTGCACCTCTAT
TATTGGTATTATTGACGCGGGAGTGGGCGTIGTACCCTACAACGTAGCTICTCTA
GTTTICAGCTGGCTCCCACCATIGTAAAGAGCCTCTAGAGTCGACCTGCAGGCAT
GCAAGCTIGGCGTAATCATGGTCATAGCTGTTTCCTGTGTGAAATIGTIATCCGCT
CACAATTCCACACAACATACGAGCCGGAAGCATAAAGTGTAAAGCCTGGGGTGC
CTAATGAGTGAGCTAACTCACATIAATTGCGTTGCGCTCACTGCCCGCTTTCCAG
TCGGGAAACCTGTCGTGCCAGCTGCATTAATGAATCGGCCAACGCGCGGGGAGA
GGCGGTTTGCGTATTGGGCGCTCTTCC
SEQ ID NO: 74
Prototheca moriformis delta 12 FAD knockout homologous recombination targeting
construct
GCTCTTCGGGTTIGCTCACCCGCGAGGTCGACGCCCAGCATGGCTATCAAGACGA
ACAGGCAGCCTGTGGAGAAGCCTCCGTTCACGATCGGGACGCTGCGCAAGGCCA
                                          252

TCCCCGCGCACTGTITCGAGCGCTCGGCGCTICGTAGCAGCATGTACCTGGCCTT
TGACATCGCGGTCATGTCCCTGCTCTACGTCGCGTCGACGTACATCGACCCTGCG
CCGGTGCCTACGTGGGTCAAGTATGGCGTCATGTGGCCGCTCTACTGGTICTICC
AGGTGTGTGTGAGGGTTGTGGTTGCCCGTATCGAGGTCCTGGTGGCGCGCATGGG
GGAGAAGGCGCCTGTCCCGCTGACCCCCCCGGCTACCCTCCCGGCACCTICCAGG
GCGCCTTCGGCACGGGTGTCTGGGTGTGCGCGCACGAGTGCGGCCACCAGGCCTT
TICCTCCAGCCAGGCCATCAACGACGGCGTGGGCCTGGTGTTCCACAGCCTGCTG
CTGGTGCCCTACTACTCCTGGAAGCACTCGCACCGCCGCCACCACTCCAACACGG
GGTGCCTGGACAAGGACGAGGTGTTTGTGCCGCCGCACCGCGCAGTGGCGCACG
AGGGCCTGGAGTGGGAGGAGTGGCTGCCCATCCGCATGGGCAAGGTGCTGGTCA
CCCTGACCCTGGGCTGGCCGCTGTACCTCATGTTCAACGTCGCCTCGCGGCCGTA
CCCGCGCTTCGCCAACCACTTIGACCCGTGGTCGCCCATCTTCAGCAAGCGCGAG
GTACCCTTICTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGAC
GGCTICCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTI
CGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTIAAATAGC
CAGGCCCCCGATIGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACA
CCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTIGTGATCGCACTCCGCT
AAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTICAGTCACAACCCGCAAACGGCGCGCCATG
CTGCTGCAGGCCTTCCTGTICCTGCTGGCCGGCTTCGCCGCCAAGATCAGCGCCT
CCATGACGAACGAGACGTCCGACCGCCCCCTGGTGCACTICACCCCCAACAAGG
GCTGGATGAACGACCCCAACGGCCTGTGGTACGACGAGAAGGACGCCAAGTGGC
ACCTGTACTICCAGTACAACCCGAACGACACCGTCTGGGGGACGCCCTTGTTCTG
GGGCCACGCCACGTCCGACGACCTGACCAACTGGGAGGACCAGCCCATCGCCAT
CGCCCCGAAGCGCAACGACTCCGGCGCCTTCTCCGGCTCCATGGTGGTGGACTAC
AACAACACCTCCGGCTICTICAACGACACCATCGACCCGCGCCAGCGCTGCGTGG
CCATCTGGACCTACAACACCCCGGAGTCCGAGGAGCAGTACATCTCCTACAGCCT
GGACGGCGGCTACACCTTCACCGAGTACCAGAAGAACCCCGTGCTGGCCGCCAA
CTCCACCCAGTTCCGCGACCCGAAGGTCTTCTGGTACGAGCCCTCCCAGAAGTGG
ATCATGACCGCGGCCAAGTCCCAGGACTACAAGATCGAGATCTACTCCTCCGAC
GACCTGAAGTCCTGGAAGCTGGAGTCCGCGTTCGCCAACGAGGGCTTCCTCGGCT
ACCAGTACGAGTGCCCCGGCCTGATCGAGGTCCCCACCGAGCAGGACCCCAGCA
AGTCCTACTGGGTGATGTICATCTCCATCAACCCCGGCGCCCCGGCCGGCGGCTC
CTICAACCAGTACTTCGTCGGCAGCTTCAACGGCACCCACTICGAGGCCTTCGAC
AACCAGTCCCGCGTGGTGGACTICGGCAAGGACTACTACGCCCTGCAGACCTTCT
TCAACACCGACCCGACCTACGGGAGCGCCCTGGGCATCGCGTGGGCCTCCAACT
GGGAGTACTCCGCCTTCGTGCCCACCAACCCCTGGCGCTCCTCCATGTCCCTCGT
GCGCAAGTTCTCCCTCAACACCGAGTACCAGGCCAACCCGGAGACGGAGCTGAT
CAACCTGAAGGCCGAGCCGATCCTGAACATCAGCAACGCCGGCCCCTGGAGCCG
GTICGCCACCAACACCACGTTGACGAAGGCCAACAGCTACAACGTCGACCTGTC
CAACAGCACCGGCACCCTGGAGTTCGAGCTGGTGTACGCCGTCAACACCACCCA
GACGATCTCCAAGTCCGTGTTCGCGGACCTCTCCCTCTGGTICAAGGGCCTGGAG
GACCCCGAGGAGTACCTCCGCATGGGCTTCGAGGTGTCCGCGTCCTCCTTCTTCC
TGGACCGCGGGAACAGCAAGGTGAAGTTCGTGAAGGAGAACCCCTACTTCACCA
ACCGCATGAGCGTGAACAACCAGCCCTICAAGAGCGAGAACGACCTGTCCTACT
ACAAGGTGTACGGCTTGCTGGACCAGAACATCCTGGAGCTGTACTTCAACGACG
GCGACGTCGTGTCCACCAACACCTACTICATGACCACCGGGAACGCCCTGGGCTC
CGTGAACATGACGACGGGGGTGGACAACCTGTTCTACATCGACAAGTTCCAGGT
GCGCGAGGTCAAGTGACAATIGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTC
TGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTG
AATATCCCTGCCGCTITTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTITGATCTTGTGTGTACGC
                            253

GCTITIGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCC
CTICCCTCGTITCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGC
TATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTIGGTTIG
GGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTG
ATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAGCATCGAGGTGGTCATCT
CCGACCTCGCGTTGGTGGCGGTGCTCAGCGGGCTCAGCGTGCTGGGCCGCACCAT
GGGCTGGGCCTGGCTGGTCAAGACCTACGTGGTGCCCTACATGATCGTGAACATG
TGGCTGGTGCTCATCACGCTGCTCCAGCACACGCACCCGGCCCTGCCGCACTACT
TCGAGAAGGACTGGGACTGGCTACGCGGCGCCATGGCCACCGTCGACCGCTCCA
TGGGCCCGCCCTTCATGGACAGCATCCTGCACCACATCTCCGACACCCACGTGCT
GCACCACCTCTTCAGCACCATCCCGCACTACCACGCCGAGGAGGCCTCCGCCGCC
ATCCGGCCCATCCTGGGCAAGTACTACCAATCCGACAGCCGCTGGGTCGGCCGC
GCCCTGTGGGAGGACTGGCGCGACTGCCGCTACGTCGTCCCCGACGCGCCCGAG
GACGACTCCGCGCTCTGGTTCCACAAGTGAGCGCGCCTGCGCGAGGACGCAGAA
CAACGCTGCCGCCGTGTCTTTIGCACGCGCGACTCCGGCGCTICGCTGGTGGCAC
CCCCATAAAGAAACCCTCAATICTGTTTGTGGAAGACACGGTGTACCCCCACCCA
CCCACCTGCACCTCTATTATTGGTATTATIGACGCGGGAGTGGGCGTIGTACCCT
ACAACGTAGCTICTCTAGTTTICAGCTGGCTCCCACCATTGTAAAGAGCCTCTAG
AGTCGACCTGCAGGCATGCAAGCTTGGCGTAATCATGGTCATAGCTGTTTCCTGT
GTGAAATTGTTATCCGCTCACAATTCCACACAACATACGAGCCGGAAGCATAAA
GTGTAAAGCCTGGGGTGCCTAATGAGTGAGCTAACTCACATIAATTGCGTIGCGC
TCACTGCCCGCTTTCCAGTCGGGAAACCTGTCGTGCCAGCTGCATIAATGAATCG
GCCAACGCGCGGGGAGAGGCGGTTTGCGTATTGGGCGCTCTTCC
SEQ IDNO: 75
5' donor DNA sequence of Prototheca moriformis SAD2A knockout homologous
recombination targeting construct
GCTCTICCGCCTGGAGCTGGTGCAGAGCATGGGTCAGTITGCGGAGGAGAGGGT
GCTCCCCGTGCTGCACCCCGTGGACAAGCTGTGGCAGCCGCAGGACTICCTGCCC
GACCCCGAGTCGCCCGACTTCGAGGACCAGGTGGCGGAGCTGCGCGCGCGCGCC
AAGGACCTGCCCGACGAGTACTTIGTGGTGCTGGTGGGCGACATGATCACGGAG
GAGGCGCTGCCGACCTACATGGCCATGCTCAACACCTTGGACGGTGTGCGCGAC
GACACGGGCGCGGCTGACCACCCGTGGGCGCGCTGGACGCGGCAGTGGGTGGCC
GAGGAGAACCGGCACGGCGACCTGCTGAACAAGTACTGTIGGCTGACGGGGCGC
GTCAACATGCGGGCCGTGGAGGTGACCATCAACAACCTGATCAAGAGCGGCATG
AACCCGCAGACGGACAACAACCCTTACTTGGGCTTCGTCTACACCTCCTTCCAGG
AGCGCGCCACCAAGTAGGTACC
SEQ ID NO: 76
3' donor DNA sequence of Prototheca moriformis SAD2A knockout homologous
recombination targeting construct
CAATIGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTG
ATGGACTGTIGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTIGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTI
ATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTTIGCGAGTIGCTAG
CTGCTTGTGCTATITGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTITCATATC
GCTIGCATCCCAACCGCAACTIATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTC
CTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATICTC
CTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTG
                                          254

GGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAGGATCGTAGAGCTCCAGCCACGGCAACACCGCGC
GCCTGGCGGCCGAGCACGGCGACAAGGGCCTGAGCAAGATCTGCGGGCTGATCG
CCAGCGACGAGGGCCGGCACGAGATCGCCTACACGCGCATCGTGGACGAGTTCT
TCCGCCTCGACCCCGAGGGCGCCGTCGCCGCCTACGCCAACATGATGCGCAAGC
AGATCACCATGCCCGCGCACCTCATGGACGACATGGGCCACGGCGAGGCCAACC
CGGGCCGCAACCTCTTCGCCGACTTCTCCGCCGTCGCCGAGAAGATCGACGTCTA
CGACGCCGAGGACTACTGCCGCATCCTGGAGCACCTCAACGCGCGCTGGAAGGT
GGACGAGCGCCAGGTCAGCGGCCAGGCCGCCGCGGACCAGGAGTACGTTCTGGG
CCTGCCCCAGCGCTTCCGGAAACTCGCCGAGAAGACCGCCGCCAAGCGCAAGCG
CGTCGCGCGCAGGCCCGTCGCCTTCTCCTGGAGAGAAGAGCCTCTAGAGTCGACC
TGCAGGCATGCAAGCTTGGCGTAATCATGGTCATAGCTGTTTCCTGTGTGAAATT
GTTATCCGCTCACAATTCCACACAACATACGAGCCGGAAGCATAAAGTGTAAAG
CCTGGGGTGCCTAATGAGTGAGCTAACTCACATTAATTGCGTTGCGCTCACTGCC
CGCTTTCCAGTCGGGAAACCTGTCGTGCCAGCTGCATTAATGAATCGGCCAACGC
GCGGGGAGAGGCGGTTTGCGTATTGGGCGCTCTTCC
SEQ IDNO: 77
Prototheca moriformis SAD2A knockout homologous recombination targeting construct
GCTCTTCCGCCTGGAGCTGGTGCAGAGCATGGGTCAGTTTGCGGAGGAGAGGGT
GCTCCCCGTGCTGCACCCCGTGGACAAGCTGTGGCAGCCGCAGGACTTCCTGCCC
GACCCCGAGTCGCCCGACTTCGAGGACCAGGTGGCGGAGCTGCGCGCGCGCGCC
AAGGACCTGCCCGACGAGTACTTTGTGGTGCTGGTGGGCGACATGATCACGGAG
GAGGCGCTGCCGACCTACATGGCCATGCTCAACACCTTGGACGGTGTGCGCGAC
GACACGGGCGCGGCTGACCACCCGTGGGCGCGCTGGACGCGGCAGTGGGTGGCC
GAGGAGAACCGGCACGGCGACCTGCTGAACAAGTACTGTTGGCTGACGGGGCGC
GTCAACATGCGGGCCGTGGAGGTGACCATCAACAACCTGATCAAGAGCGGCATG
AACCCGCAGACGGACAACAACCCTTACTTGGGCTTCGTCTACACCTCCTTCCAGG
AGCGCGCCACCAAGTAGGTACCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGT
AGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTC
GACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCG
AGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACC
AAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCT
TGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTTCAGTCACAACCC
GCAAACGGCGCGCCATGCTGCTGCAGGCCTTCCTGTTCCTGCTGGCCGGCTTCGC
CGCCAAGATCAGCGCCTCCATGACGAACGAGACGTCCGACCGCCCCCTGGTGCA
CTTCACCCCCAACAAGGGCTGGATGAACGACCCCAACGGCCTGTGGTACGACGA
GAAGGACGCCAAGTGGCACCTGTACTTCCAGTACAACCCGAACGACACCGTCTG
GGGGACGCCCTTGTTCTGGGGCCACGCCACGTCCGACGACCTGACCAACTGGGA
GGACCAGCCCATCGCCATCGCCCCGAAGCGCAACGACTCCGGCGCCTTCTCCGGC
TCCATGGTGGTGGACTACAACAACACCTCCGGCTTCTTCAACGACACCATCGACC
CGCGCCAGCGCTGCGTGGCCATCTGGACCTACAACACCCCGGAGTCCGAGGAGC
AGTACATCTCCTACAGCCTGGACGGCGGCTACACCTTCACCGAGTACCAGAAGA
ACCCCGTGCTGGCCGCCAACTCCACCCAGTTCCGCGACCCGAAGGTCTTCTGGTA
CGAGCCCTCCCAGAAGTGGATCATGACCGCGGCCAAGTCCCAGGACTACAAGAT
CGAGATCTACTCCTCCGACGACCTGAAGTCCTGGAAGCTGGAGTCCGCGTTCGCC
AACGAGGGCTTCCTCGGCTACCAGTACGAGTGCCCCGGCCTGATCGAGGTCCCCA
CCGAGCAGGACCCCAGCAAGTCCTACTGGGTGATGTTCATCTCCATCAACCCCGG
CGCCCCGGCCGGCGGCTCCTTCAACCAGTACTTCGTCGGCAGCTTCAACGGCACC
CACTTCGAGGCCTTCGACAACCAGTCCCGCGTGGTGGACTTCGGCAAGGACTACT
                                        255

ACGCCCTGCAGACCTICTTCAACACCGACCCGACCTACGGGAGCGCCCTGGGCAT
CGCGTGGGCCTCCAACTGGGAGTACTCCGCCTTCGTGCCCACCAACCCCTGGCGC
TCCTCCATGTCCCTCGTGCGCAAGTTCTCCCTCAACACCGAGTACCAGGCCAACC
CGGAGACGGAGCTGATCAACCTGAAGGCCGAGCCGATCCTGAACATCAGCAACG
CCGGCCCCTGGAGCCGGTICGCCACCAACACCACGTIGACGAAGGCCAACAGCT
ACAACGTCGACCTGTCCAACAGCACCGGCACCCTGGAGTTCGAGCTGGTGTACG
CCGTCAACACCACCCAGACGATCTCCAAGTCCGTGTTCGCGGACCTCTCCCTCTG
GTICAAGGGCCTGGAGGACCCCGAGGAGTACCTCCGCATGGGCTICGAGGTGTC
CGCGTCCTCCTTCTTCCTGGACCGCGGGAACAGCAAGGTGAAGTICGTGAAGGA
GAACCCCTACTTCACCAACCGCATGAGCGTGAACAACCAGCCCTICAAGAGCGA
GAACGACCTGTCCTACTACAAGGTGTACGGCTTGCTGGACCAGAACATCCTGGA
GCTGTACTTCAACGACGGCGACGTCGTGTCCACCAACACCTACTTCATGACCACC
GGGAACGCCCTGGGCTCCGTGAACATGACGACGGGGGTGGACAACCTGTICTAC
ATCGACAAGTTCCAGGTGCGCGAGGTCAAGTGACAATTGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGG
ATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACT
TGCTGCCTIGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTIATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTT
TGATCTIGTGTGTACGCGCTITTGCGAGTIGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTIGCGAAT
ACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTICATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACT
TATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCT
CGCACAGCCTTGGTITGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAA
CCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAA
GGATCGTAGAGCTCCAGCCACGGCAACACCGCGCGCCTGGCGGCCGAGCACGGC
GACAAGGGCCTGAGCAAGATCTGCGGGCTGATCGCCAGCGACGAGGGCCGGCAC
GAGATCGCCTACACGCGCATCGTGGACGAGTTCTTCCGCCTCGACCCCGAGGGCG
CCGTCGCCGCCTACGCCAACATGATGCGCAAGCAGATCACCATGCCCGCGCACCT
CATGGACGACATGGGCCACGGCGAGGCCAACCCGGGCCGCAACCTCTICGCCGA
CTICTCCGCCGTCGCCGAGAAGATCGACGTCTACGACGCCGAGGACTACTGCCGC
ATCCTGGAGCACCTCAACGCGCGCTGGAAGGTGGACGAGCGCCAGGTCAGCGGC
CAGGCCGCCGCGGACCAGGAGTACGTTCTGGGCCTGCCCCAGCGCTTCCGGAAA
CTCGCCGAGAAGACCGCCGCCAAGCGCAAGCGCGTCGCGCGCAGGCCCGTCGCC
TICTCCTGGAGAGAAGAGCCTCTAGAGTCGACCTGCAGGCATGCAAGCTTGGCGT
AATCATGGTCATAGCTGTITCCTGTGTGAAATTGTIATCCGCTCACAATTCCACAC
AACATACGAGCCGGAAGCATAAAGTGTAAAGCCTGGGGTGCCTAATGAGTGAGC
TAACTCACATTAATIGCGTTGCGCTCACTGCCCGCTITCCAGTCGGGAAACCTGT
CGTGCCAGCTGCATIAATGAATCGGCCAACGCGCGGGGAGAGGCGGTTTGCGTA
TIGGGCGCTCTTCC
SEQ IDNO: 78
5' donor DNA sequence of Prototheca moriformis SAD2B knockout homologous
recombination targeting construct
GCTCTICCCGCCTGGAGCTGGTGCAGAGCATGGGGCAGTTIGCGGAGGAGAGGG
TGCTCCCCGTGCTGCACCCCGTGGACAAGCTGTGGCAGCCGCAGGACTTCCTGCC
CGACCCCGAGTCGCCCGACTICGAGGACCAGGTGGCGGAGCTGCGCGCGCGCGC
CAAGGACCTGCCCGACGAGTACTTTGTGGTGCTGGTGGGCGACATGATCACGGA
GGAGGCGCTGCCGACCTACATGGCCATGCTCAACACCTIGGACGGTGTGCGCGA
CGACACGGGCGCGGCTGACCACCCGTGGGCGCGCTGGACGCGGCAGTGGGTGGC
CGAGGAGAACCGGCACGGCGACCTGCTGAACAAGTACTGTIGGCTGACGGGGCG
CGTCAACATGCGGGCCGTGGAGGTGACCATCAACAACCTGATCAAGAGCGGCAT
                                          256

GAACCCGCAGACGGACAACAACCCTTACTTGGGCTTCGTCTACACCTCCTTCCAG
GAGCGCGCCACCAAGTAGGTACC
SEQ IDNO: 79
3' donor DNA sequence of Prototheca moriformis SAD2B knockout homologous
recombination targeting construct
CAGCCACGGCAACACCGCGCGCCTTGCGGCCGAGCACGGCGACAAGAACCTGAG
CAAGATCTGCGGGCTGATCGCCAGCGACGAGGGCCGGCACGAGATCGCCTACAC
GCGCATCGTGGACGAGTTCTTCCGCCTCGACCCCGAGGGCGCCGTCGCCGCCTAC
GCCAACATGATGCGCAAGCAGATCACCATGCCCGCGCACCTCATGGACGACATG
GGCCACGGCGAGGCCAACCCGGGCCGCAACCTCTTCGCCGACTTCTCCGCGGTCG
CCGAGAAGATCGACGTCTACGACGCCGAGGACTACTGCCGCATCCTGGAGCACC
TCAACGCGCGCTGGAAGGTGGACGAGCGCCAGGTCAGCGGCCAGGCCGCCGCGG
ACCAGGAGTACGTCCTGGGCCTGCCCCAGCGCTTCCGGAAACTCGCCGAGAAGA
CCGCCGCCAAGCGCAAGCGCGTCGCGCGCAGGCCCGTCGCCTTCTCCTGGAGAA
GAGCCTCTAGAGTCGACCTGCAGGCATGCAAGCTTGGCGTAATCATGGTCATAGC
TGTTTCCTGTGTGAAATTGTTATCCGCTCACAATTCCACACAACATACGAGCCGG
AAGCATAAAGTGTAAAGCCTGGGGTGCCTAATGAGTGAGCTAACTCACATTAAT
TGCGTTGCGCTCACTGCCCGCTTTCCAGTCGGGAAACCTGTCGTGCCAGCTGCAT
TAATGAATCGGCCAACGCGCGGGGAGAGGCGGTTTGCGTATTGGGCGCTCTTCC
SEQ ID NO: 80
Prototheca moriformis SAD2B knockout homologous recombination targeting construct
GCTCTTCCCGCCTGGAGCTGGTGCAGAGCATGGGGCAGTTTGCGGAGGAGAGGG
TGCTCCCCGTGCTGCACCCCGTGGACAAGCTGTGGCAGCCGCAGGACTTCCTGCC
CGACCCCGAGTCGCCCGACTTCGAGGACCAGGTGGCGGAGCTGCGCGCGCGCGC
CAAGGACCTGCCCGACGAGTACTTTGTGGTGCTGGTGGGCGACATGATCACGGA
GGAGGCGCTGCCGACCTACATGGCCATGCTCAACACCTTGGACGGTGTGCGCGA
CGACACGGGCGCGGCTGACCACCCGTGGGCGCGCTGGACGCGGCAGTGGGTGGC
CGAGGAGAACCGGCACGGCGACCTGCTGAACAAGTACTGTTGGCTGACGGGGCG
CGTCAACATGCGGGCCGTGGAGGTGACCATCAACAACCTGATCAAGAGCGGCAT
GAACCCGCAGACGGACAACAACCCTTACTTGGGCTTCGTCTACACCTCCTTCCAG
GAGCGCGCCACCAAGTAGGTACCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGG
TAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTT
CGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGC
GAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTAC
CAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGC
TTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTTCAGTCACAACCC
GCAAACGGCGCGCCATGCTGCTGCAGGCCTTCCTGTTCCTGCTGGCCGGCTTCGC
CGCCAAGATCAGCGCCTCCATGACGAACGAGACGTCCGACCGCCCCCTGGTGCA
CTTCACCCCCAACAAGGGCTGGATGAACGACCCCAACGGCCTGTGGTACGACGA
GAAGGACGCCAAGTGGCACCTGTACTTCCAGTACAACCCGAACGACACCGTCTG
GGGGACGCCCTTGTTCTGGGGCCACGCCACGTCCGACGACCTGACCAACTGGGA
GGACCAGCCCATCGCCATCGCCCCGAAGCGCAACGACTCCGGCGCCTTCTCCGGC
TCCATGGTGGTGGACTACAACAACACCTCCGGCTTCTTCAACGACACCATCGACC
CGCGCCAGCGCTGCGTGGCCATCTGGACCTACAACACCCCGGAGTCCGAGGAGC
AGTACATCTCCTACAGCCTGGACGGCGGCTACACCTTCACCGAGTACCAGAAGA
ACCCCGTGCTGGCCGCCAACTCCACCCAGTTCCGCGACCCGAAGGTCTTCTGGTA
                                          257

CGAGCCCTCCCAGAAGTGGATCATGACCGCGGCCAAGTCCCAGGACTACAAGAT
CGAGATCTACTCCTCCGACGACCTGAAGTCCTGGAAGCTGGAGTCCGCGTTCGCC
AACGAGGGCTTCCTCGGCTACCAGTACGAGTGCCCCGGCCTGATCGAGGTCCCCA
CCGAGCAGGACCCCAGCAAGTCCTACTGGGTGATGTTCATCTCCATCAACCCCGG
CGCCCCGGCCGGCGGCTCCTTCAACCAGTACTTCGTCGGCAGCTTCAACGGCACC
CACTTCGAGGCCTTCGACAACCAGTCCCGCGTGGTGGACTTCGGCAAGGACTACT
ACGCCCTGCAGACCTTCTTCAACACCGACCCGACCTACGGGAGCGCCCTGGGCAT
CGCGTGGGCCTCCAACTGGGAGTACTCCGCCTTCGTGCCCACCAACCCCTGGCGC
TCCTCCATGTCCCTCGTGCGCAAGTTCTCCCTCAACACCGAGTACCAGGCCAACC
CGGAGACGGAGCTGATCAACCTGAAGGCCGAGCCGATCCTGAACATCAGCAACG
CCGGCCCCTGGAGCCGGTTCGCCACCAACACCACGTTGACGAAGGCCAACAGCT
ACAACGTCGACCTGTCCAACAGCACCGGCACCCTGGAGTTCGAGCTGGTGTACG
CCGTCAACACCACCCAGACGATCTCCAAGTCCGTGTTCGCGGACCTCTCCCTCTG
GTTCAAGGGCCTGGAGGACCCCGAGGAGTACCTCCGCATGGGCTTCGAGGTGTC
CGCGTCCTCCTTCTTCCTGGACCGCGGGAACAGCAAGGTGAAGTTCGTGAAGGA
GAACCCCTACTTCACCAACCGCATGAGCGTGAACAACCAGCCCTTCAAGAGCGA
GAACGACCTGTCCTACTACAAGGTGTACGGCTTGCTGGACCAGAACATCCTGGA
GCTGTACTTCAACGACGGCGACGTCGTGTCCACCAACACCTACTTCATGACCACC
GGGAACGCCCTGGGCTCCGTGAACATGACGACGGGGGTGGACAACCTGTTCTAC
ATCGACAAGTTCCAGGTGCGCGAGGTCAAGTGACAATTGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGG
ATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACT
TGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTT
TGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAAT
ACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACT
TATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCT
CGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAA
CCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAC
AGCCACGGCAACACCGCGCGCCTTGCGGCCGAGCACGGCGACAAGAACCTGAGC
AAGATCTGCGGGCTGATCGCCAGCGACGAGGGCCGGCACGAGATCGCCTACACG
CGCATCGTGGACGAGTTCTTCCGCCTCGACCCCGAGGGCGCCGTCGCCGCCTACG
CCAACATGATGCGCAAGCAGATCACCATGCCCGCGCACCTCATGGACGACATGG
GCCACGGCGAGGCCAACCCGGGCCGCAACCTCTTCGCCGACTTCTCCGCGGTCGC
CGAGAAGATCGACGTCTACGACGCCGAGGACTACTGCCGCATCCTGGAGCACCT
CAACGCGCGCTGGAAGGTGGACGAGCGCCAGGTCAGCGGCCAGGCCGCCGCGG
ACCAGGAGTACGTCCTGGGCCTGCCCCAGCGCTTCCGGAAACTCGCCGAGAAGA
CCGCCGCCAAGCGCAAGCGCGTCGCGCGCAGGCCCGTCGCCTTCTCCTGGAGAA
GAGCCTCTAGAGTCGACCTGCAGGCATGCAAGCTTGGCGTAATCATGGTCATAGC
TGTTTCCTGTGTGAAATTGTTATCCGCTCACAATTCCACACAACATACGAGCCGG
AAGCATAAAGTGTAAAGCCTGGGGTGCCTAATGAGTGAGCTAACTCACATTAAT
TGCGTTGCGCTCACTGCCCGCTTTCCAGTCGGGAAACCTGTCGTGCCAGCTGCAT
TAATGAATCGGCCAACGCGCGGGGAGAGGCGGTTTGCGTATTGGGCGCTCTTCC
SEQ IDNO: 81
P.moriformis Aat02 promoter/S'UTR::C.protothecoides stearoyl ACP desaturase
PTS::Cinnamomum camphora C14 thioesterase::C.vulgaris nitrate reductase 3"UTR
AGAGAGCGGAGGTGGGGTTGTGAGGTGGGGTTGCTGACCAGGAGCTCGCGTCGC
CGAGCGCGACTCGCACACGGTCCAGTTACCCCCCCCTCCGCCCAAACGCAAGCCT
CCCATCTTGATGCCTTTCCGGCCACCTATACTATTTCTTAGTTCGCTGTAACATCC
AGACCGTCCTGAATAATAACAATGCCCTGTGTCAAGTGCATTCCTAAAAAAATTC
                                         258

TGTCCCAACCAACAATCCCACCTGAAATACCACCAGCCCTGCCCAGTACACTCTT
CCAATACCATCTCCCTACCTCCACGCGCAAGCGACCCCCATGCGCGACCAGGCTC
GAAAGTGATTTATGACTTGAGACGAGCGAGTGGCGGCGCGGTCGACTGCCTT1TC
ATCACGTGCCGTACGTCGGCGACCGCTAGGGCTTTGCACGGCAACGCACGGCTTC
GCCAACCCGACCAGCCAGGACCTCGACTACTCTACCGCGAATTCGCCTCAAGAA
GTCGCCAAATGTGCCATACACCATTCCTTACAGCACTGTTCAAACTTGATGCCAA
TTTTGACATTCGGGTTGCTCGTTGGCTGCGCCCACATCGGCCGTGAGTGCAGCAG
GCGGGATCGGACACGGAGGACGCGGCGTCACGCCCCGAACGCAGCCCGTAACTC
TACATCAACACGACGTGTTGCGTAATCCCGCCCGGCTGCGCATCGTGCCAACCCA
TTCGCGATGGATGGTCGGAAAATGGTGTGCCAACTGCCCTGAGGGAGGCTCTCG
CGAAACGGGCACGTCCCTGAAACCGAAACTGTGGCCTTGTCGTCGGCCACGCAA
GCACGTGGACCCTAAACACCAAGAAAATCAGTAAACAAGGTTGACATCCTCTAC
GGGCGAATTGTTTGCCCAACCCTTCATCGCACACTGCCATTATAATGCATCTAGC
TCGGCGACAAGTTTAGAAAAGGCAGGCTGCATTGTTCCATTTCGCCGTGGCGGCG
TGGGTGCCCATTTTACGAGGTTTGGGCTCCCGGGCAGCGACCGAGCCAGGTCGA
GTCCCTCTCGCCCGTCGACAATGTTGCGAACCCCACAAGCGGCTAACAACAACTT
GATGGTACCTGTACACTGCCAATTCCTTCTTCCCCGGCCGAGGTTTACACGTGAT
GGCCATGGCTTCGCATTCAGGCCGACTTCCCATTCCGACTTTCCAGAGGGTCCGC
GGACGCTGGGGGTTGGCTGCCTGAGGCCCACCCTTTGTTCCCCGCGTCCCGACAA
ACACAATTGCGTTACATAAGGGGGAGCCGCCCCCGTTCAGAGTGCAGAAATCTTT
CACTATATTTTCCAGTCGTCAGCGAAATCAAGTACTAGTATGGCCACCGCATCCA
CTTTCTCGGCGTTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACCTGCGTCGCTCGGCGGGCTCCGG
GCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCGCGGGCGCGCCCCCGACTGGTC
CATGCTGTTCGCCGTGATCACCACCATCTTCTCCGCCGCCGAGAAGCAGTGGACC
AACCTGGAGTGGAAGCCCAAGCCCAACCCCCCCCAGCTGCTGGACGACCACTTC
GGCCCCCACGGCCTGGTGTTCCGCCGCACCTTCGCCATCCGCAGCTACGAGGTGG
GCCCCGACCGCTCCACCAGCATCGTGGCCGTGATGAACCACCTGCAGGAGGCCG
CCCTGAACCACGCCAAGTCCGTGGGCATCCTGGGCGACGGCTTCGGCACCACCCT
GGAGATGTCCAAGCGCGACCTGATCTGGGTGGTGAAGCGCACCCACGTGGCCGT
GGAGCGCTACCCCGCCTGGGGCGACACCGTGGAGGTGGAGTGCTGGGTGGGCGC
CTCCGGCAACAACGGCCGCCGCCACGACTTCCTGGTGCGCGACTGCAAGACCGG
CGAGATCCTGACCCGCTGCACCTCCCTGAGCGTGATGATGAACACCCGCACCCGC
CGCCTGAGCAAGATCCCCGAGGAGGTGCGCGGCGAGATCGGCCCCGCCTTCATC
GACAACGTGGCCGTGAAGGACGAGGAGATCAAGAAGCCCCAGAAGCTGAACGA
CTCCACCGCCGACTACATCCAGGGCGGCCTGACCCCCCGCTGGAACGACCTGGA
CATCAACCAGCACGTGAACAACATCAAGTACGTGGACTGGATCCTGGAGACCGT
GCCCGACAGCATCTTCGAGAGCCACCACATCTCCTCCTTCACCATCGAGTACCGC
CGCGAGTGCACCATGGACAGCGTGCTGCAGTCCCTGACCACCGTGAGCGGCGGC
TCCTCCGAGGCCGGCCTGGTGTGCGAGCACCTGCTGCAGCTGGAGGGCGGCAGC
GAGGTGCTGCGCGCCAAGACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGCTGACCGACTCCTTCCGC
GGCATCAGCGTGATCCCCGCCGAGTCCAGCGTGATGGACTACAAGGACCACGAC
GGCGACTACAAGGACCACGACATCGACTACAAGGACGACGACGACAAGTGACTC
GAGTTAATTAACTCGAGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGAC
GCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATAT
CCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTT
TGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCC
CTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCC
CTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTC
CGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCA
CGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTT
                            259

SEQ IDNO: 82
5' 6S rRNA genomic donor sequence
GCTCTTCGCCGCCGCCACTCCTGCTCGAGCGCGCCCGCGCGTGCGCCGCCAGCGC
CTTGGCCTTTTCGCCGCGCTCGTGCGCGTCGCTGATGTCCATCACCAGGTCCATG
AGGTCTGCCTTGCGCCGGCTGAGCCACTGCTTCGTCCGGGCGGCCAAGAGGAGC
ATGAGGGAGGACTCCTGGTCCAGGGTCCTGACGTGGTCGCGGCTCTGGGAGCGG
GCCAGCATCATCTGGCTCTGCCGCACCGAGGCCGCCTCCAACTGGTCCTCCAGCA
GCCGCAGTCGCCGCCGACCCTGGCAGAGGAAGACAGGTGAGGGGGGTATGAATT
GTACAGAACAACCACGAGCCTTGTCTAGGCAGAATCCCTACCAGTCATGGCTTTA
CCTGGATGACGGCCTGCGAACAGCTGTCCAGCGACCCTCGCTGCCGCCGCTTCTC
CCGCACGCTTCTTTCCAGCACCGTGATGGCGCGAGCCAGCGCCGCACGCTGGCGC
TGCGCTTCGCCGATCTGAGGACAGTCGGGGAACTCTGATCAGTCTAAACCCCCTT
GCGCGTTAGTGTTGCCATCCTTTGCAGACCGGTGAGAGCCGACTTGTTGTGCGCC
ACCCCCCACACCACCTCCTCCCAGACCAATTCTGTCACCTTTTTGGCGAAGGCAT
CGGCCTCGGCCTGCAGAGAGGACAGCAGTGCCCAGCCGCTGGGGGTTGGCGGAT
GCACGCTCAGGTACC
SEQ IDNO: 83
Relevant expression construct for Cinnamomum camphora thioesterase
(~tub::neo::nitred::~tub::C.camphora TE::nitred)
CTTTCTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTT
CCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGG
CTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCC
CCCGATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGA
TCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGG
GCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACTCTAGAATATCAATGATC
GAGCAGGACGGCCTCCACGCCGGCTCCCCCGCCGCCTGGGTGGAGCGCCTGTTC
GGCTACGACTGGGCCCAGCAGACCATCGGCTGCTCCGACGCCGCCGTGTTCCGCC
TGTCCGCCCAGGGCCGCCCCGTGCTGTTCGTGAAGACCGACCTGTCCGGCGCCCT
GAACGAGCTGCAGGACGAGGCCGCCCGCCTGTCCTGGCTGGCCACCACCGGCGT
GCCCTGCGCCGCCGTGCTGGACGTGGTGACCGAGGCCGGCCGCGACTGGCTGCT
GCTGGGCGAGGTGCCCGGCCAGGACCTGCTGTCCTCCCACCTGGCCCCCGCCGAG
AAGGTGTCCATCATGGCCGACGCCATGCGCCGCCTGCACACCCTGGACCCCGCCA
CCTGCCCCTTCGACCACCAGGCCAAGCACCGCATCGAGCGCGCCCGCACCCGCAT
GGAGGCCGGCCTGGTGGACCAGGACGACCTGGACGAGGAGCACCAGGGCCTGG
CCCCCGCCGAGCTGTTCGCCCGCCTGAAGGCCCGCATGCCCGACGGCGAGGACC
TGGTGGTGACCCACGGCGACGCCTGCCTGCCCAACATCATGGTGGAGAACGGCC
GCTTCTCCGGCTTCATCGACTGCGGCCGCCTGGGCGTGGCCGACCGCTACCAGGA
CATCGCCCTGGCCACCCGCGACATCGCCGAGGAGCTGGGCGGCGAGTGGGCCGA
CCGCTTCCTGGTGCTGTACGGCATCGCCGCCCCCGACTCCCAGCGCATCGCCTTC
TACCGCCTGCTGGACGAGTTCTTCTGACAATTGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTAT
CGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCC
TTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTT
GTGTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCC
CCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTAC
GCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAG
CCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACT
                                             260

GCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAGGATCCCGC
GTCTCGAACAGAGCGCGCAGAGGAACGCTGAAGGTCTCGCCTCTGTCGCACCTC
AGCGCGGCATACACCACAATAACCACCTGACGAATGCGCTTGGTTCTTCGTCCAT
TAGCGAAGCGTCCGGTTCACACACGTGCCACGTTGGCGAGGTGGCAGGTGACAA
TGATCGGTGGAGCTGATGGTCGAAACGTTCACAGCCTAGGGATATCGAATTCCTT
TCTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCC
GGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTG
CATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCC
GATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCA
CTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCG
CCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACACTAGTATGGCCACCGCATCC
ACTTTCTCGGCGTTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACCTGCGTCGCTCGGCGGGCTCCG
GGCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCGCGGGCGCGCCCCCGACTGGT
CCATGCTGTTCGCCGTGATCACCACCATCTTCTCCGCCGCCGAGAAGCAGTGGAC
CAACCTGGAGTGGAAGCCCAAGCCCAACCCCCCCCAGCTGCTGGACGACCACTT
CGGCCCCCACGGCCTGGTGTTCCGCCGCACCTTCGCCATCCGCAGCTACGAGGTG
GGCCCCGACCGCTCCACCAGCATCGTGGCCGTGATGAACCACCTGCAGGAGGCC
GCCCTGAACCACGCCAAGTCCGTGGGCATCCTGGGCGACGGCTTCGGCACCACC
CTGGAGATGTCCAAGCGCGACCTGATCTGGGTGGTGAAGCGCACCCACGTGGCC
GTGGAGCGCTACCCCGCCTGGGGCGACACCGTGGAGGTGGAGTGCTGGGTGGGC
GCCTCCGGCAACAACGGCCGCCGCCACGACTTCCTGGTGCGCGACTGCAAGACC
GGCGAGATCCTGACCCGCTGCACCTCCCTGAGCGTGATGATGAACACCCGCACCC
GCCGCCTGAGCAAGATCCCCGAGGAGGTGCGCGGCGAGATCGGCCCCGCCTTCA
TCGACAACGTGGCCGTGAAGGACGAGGAGATCAAGAAGCCCCAGAAGCTGAAC
GACTCCACCGCCGACTACATCCAGGGCGGCCTGACCCCCCGCTGGAACGACCTG
GACATCAACCAGCACGTGAACAACATCAAGTACGTGGACTGGATCCTGGAGACC
GTGCCCGACAGCATCTTCGAGAGCCACCACATCTCCTCCTTCACCATCGAGTACC
GCCGCGAGTGCACCATGGACAGCGTGCTGCAGTCCCTGACCACCGTGAGCGGCG
GCTCCTCCGAGGCCGGCCTGGTGTGCGAGCACCTGCTGCAGCTGGAGGGCGGCA
GCGAGGTGCTGCGCGCCAAGACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGCTGACCGACTCCTTCC
GCGGCATCAGCGTGATCCCCGCCGAGTCCAGCGTGATGGACTACAAGGACCACG
ACGGCGACTACAAGGACCACGACATCGACTACAAGGACGACGACGACAAGTGA
CTCGAGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGT
GATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTT
TATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTA
GCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATAT
CGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCT
CCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCT
CCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGT
GGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTT
SEQ IDNO: 84
3'6S rRNA genomic donor sequence
GAGCTCCTTGTTTTCCAGAAGGAGTTGCTCCTTGAGCCTTTCATTCTCAGCCTCGA
TAACCTCCAAAGCCGCTCTAATTGTGGAGGGGGTTCGAATTTAAAAGCTTGGAAT
GTTGGTTCGTGCGTCTGGAACAAGCCCAGACTTGTTGCTCACTGGGAAAAGGACC
ATCAGCTCCAAAAAACTTGCCGCTCAAACCGCGTACCTCTGCTTTCGCGCAATCT
GCCCTGTTGAAATCGCCACCACATTCATATTGTGACGCTTGAGCAGTCTGTAATT
GCCTCAGAATGTGGAATCATCTGCCCCCTGTGCGAGCCCATGCCAGGCATGTCGC
                                 261

GGGCGAGGACACCCGCCACTCGTACAGCAGACCATTATGCTACCTCACAATAGTT
CATAACAGTGACCATATTTCTCGAAGCTCCCCAACGAGCACCTCCATGCTCTGAG
TGGCCACCCCCCGGCCCTGGTGCTTGCGGAGGGCAGGTCAACCGGCATGGGGCT
ACCGAAATCCCCGACCGGATCCCACCACCCCCGCGATGGGAAGAATCTCTCCCC
GGGATGTGGGCCCACCACCAGCACAACCTGCTGGCCCAGGCGAGCGTCAAACCA
TACCACACAAATATCCTTGGCATCGGCCCTGAATTCCTTCTGCCGCTCTGCTACCC
GGTGCTTCTGTCCGAAGCAGGGGTTGCTAGGGATCGCTCCGAGTCCGCAAACCCT
TGTCGCGTGGCGGGGCTTGTTCGAGCTTGAAGAGC
SEQ IDNO: 85
Amt03 forward primer
5'-GGAGGAATTCGGCCGACAGGACGCGCGTCA-3'
SEQ IDNO: 86
Amt03 reverse primer
5'-GGAGACTAGTGGCTGCGACCGGCCTGTG-3'
SEQ IDNO: 87
Amt02 forward primer
5'-GGAGGAATTCTCACCAGCGGACAAAGCACCG-3'
SEQ IDNO: 88
Amt02 reverse primer
5'-GGAGACTAGTGGCTGCGACCGGCCTCTGG-3'
SEQ IDNO: 89
amt03 promoter/UTR sequence
GGCCGACAGGACGCGCGTCAAAGGTGCTGGTCGTGTATGCCCTGGCCGGCAGGT
CGTTGCTGCTGCTGGTTAGTGATTCCGCAACCCTGATTTTGGCGTCTTATTTTGGC
GTGGCAAACGCTGGCGCCCGCGAGCCGGGCCGGCGGCGATGCGGTGCCCCACGG
CTGCCGGAATCCAAGGGAGGCAAGAGCGCCCGGGTCAGTTGAAGGGCTTTACGC
GCAAGGTACAGCCGCTCCTGCAAGGCTGCGTGGTGGAATTGGACGTGCAGGTCC
TGCTGAAGTTCCTCCACCGCCTCACCAGCGGACAAAGCACCGGTGTATCAGGTCC
GTGTCATCCACTCTAAAGAGCTCGACTACGACCTACTGATGGCCCTAGATTCTTC
ATCAAAAACGCCTGAGACACTTGCCCAGGATTGAAACTCCCTGAAGGGACCACC
AGGGGCCCTGAGTTGTTCCTTCCCCCCGTGGCGAGCTGCCAGCCAGGCTGTACCT
GTGATCGAGGCTGGCGGGAAAATAGGCTTCGTGTGCTCAGGTCATGGGAGGTGC
AGGACAGCTCATGAAACGCCAACAATCGCACAATTCATGTCAAGCTAATCAGCT
ATTTCCTCTTCACGAGCTGTAATTGTCCCAAAATTCTGGTCTACCGGGGGTGATCC
TTCGTGTACGGGCCCTTCCCTCAACCCTAGGTATGCGCGCATGCGGTCGCCGCGC
AACTCGCGCGAGGGCCGAGGGTTTGGGACGGGCCGTCCCGAAATGCAGTTGCAC
CCGGATGCGTGGCACCTTTTTTGCGATAATTTATGCAATGGACTGCTCTGCAAAA
TTCTGGCTCTGTCGCCAACCCTAGGATCAGCGGCGTAGGATTTCGTAATCATTCG
TCCTGATGGGGAGCTACCGACTACCCTAATATCAGCCCGACTGCCTGACGCCAGC
GTCCACTTTTGTGCACACATTCCATTCGTGCCCAAGACATTTCATTGTGGTGCGAA
                            262

GCGTCCCCAGTTACGCTCACCTGTTTCCCGACCTCCTTACTGTTCTGTCGACAGAG
CGGGCCCACAGGCCGGTCGCAGCC
SEQ IDNO: 90
relevant sequence of the amt promoter/UTR:: C. camphora thioesterase expression construct
GCTCTTCGGCCGCCGCCACTCCTGCTCGAGCGCGCCCGACTCGCGCTCCGCCTGC
GCCCGCGCGTGCGCCGCCAGCGCCTTGGCC1TTTCGCCGCGCTCGTGCGCGTCGC
TGATGTCCATCACCAGGTCCATGAGGTCTGCCTTGCGCCGGCTGAGCCACTGCTT
CGTCCGGGCGGCCAAGAGGAGCATGAGGGAGGACTCCTGGTCCAGGGTCCTGAC
GTGGTCGCGGCTCTGGGAGCGGGCCAGCATCATCTGGCTCTGCCGCACCGAGGC
CGCCTCCAACTGGTCCTCCAGCAGCCGCAGTCGCCGCCGACCCTGGCAGAGGAA
GACAGGTGAGGGGGGTATGAATTGTACAGAACAACCACGAGCCTTGTCTAGGCA
GAATCCCTACCAGTCATGGCTTTACCTGGATGACGGCCTGCGAACAGCTGTCCAG
CGACCCTCGCTGCCGCCGCTTCTCCCGCACGCTTCTTTCCAGCACCGTGATGGCG
CGAGCCAGCGCCGCACGCTGGCGCTGCGCTTCGCCGATCTGAGGACAGTCGGGG
AACTCTGATCAGTCTAAACCCCCTTGCGCGTTAGTGTTGCCATCCTTTGCAGACC
GGTGAGAGCCGACTTGTTGTGCGCCACCCCCCACACCACCTCCTCCCAGACCAAT
TCTGTCACCTTTTTGGCGAAGGCATCGGCCTCGGCCTGCAGAGAGGACAGCAGTG
CCCAGCCGCTGGGGGTTGGCGGATGCACGCTCAGGTACCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGA
CACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGC
AACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCC
GATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGA
CATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTA
CACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTT
CGTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACGGCGCGCCATGCTGCTGCAGGCCTTCCTGTTC
CTGCTGGCCGGCTTCGCCGCCAAGATCAGCGCCTCCATGACGAACGAGACGTCC
GACCGCCCCCTGGTGCACTTCACCCCCAACAAGGGCTGGATGAACGACCCCAAC
GGCCTGTGGTACGACGAGAAGGACGCCAAGTGGCACCTGTACTTCCAGTACAAC
CCGAACGACACCGTCTGGGGGACGCCCTTGTTCTGGGGCCACGCCACGTCCGAC
GACCTGACCAACTGGGAGGACCAGCCCATCGCCATCGCCCCGAAGCGCAACGAC
TCCGGCGCCTTCTCCGGCTCCATGGTGGTGGACTACAACAACACCTCCGGCTTCT
TCAACGACACCATCGACCCGCGCCAGCGCTGCGTGGCCATCTGGACCTACAACA
CCCCGGAGTCCGAGGAGCAGTACATCTCCTACAGCCTGGACGGCGGCTACACCTT
CACCGAGTACCAGAAGAACCCCGTGCTGGCCGCCAACTCCACCCAGTTCCGCGA
CCCGAAGGTCTTCTGGTACGAGCCCTCCCAGAAGTGGATCATGACCGCGGCCAA
GTCCCAGGACTACAAGATCGAGATCTACTCCTCCGACGACCTGAAGTCCTGGAA
GCTGGAGTCCGCGTTCGCCAACGAGGGCTTCCTCGGCTACCAGTACGAGTGCCCC
GGCCTGATCGAGGTCCCCACCGAGCAGGACCCCAGCAAGTCCTACTGGGTGATG
TTCATCTCCATCAACCCCGGCGCCCCGGCCGGCGGCTCCTTCAACCAGTACTTCG
TCGGCAGCTTCAACGGCACCCACTTCGAGGCCTTCGACAACCAGTCCCGCGTGGT
GGACTTCGGCAAGGACTACTACGCCCTGCAGACCTTCTTCAACACCGACCCGACC
TACGGGAGCGCCCTGGGCATCGCGTGGGCCTCCAACTGGGAGTACTCCGCCTTCG
TGCCCACCAACCCCTGGCGCTCCTCCATGTCCCTCGTGCGCAAGTTCTCCCTCAAC
ACCGAGTACCAGGCCAACCCGGAGACGGAGCTGATCAACCTGAAGGCCGAGCCG
ATCCTGAACATCAGCAACGCCGGCCCCTGGAGCCGGTTCGCCACCAACACCACG
TTGACGAAGGCCAACAGCTACAACGTCGACCTGTCCAACAGCACCGGCACCCTG
GAGTTCGAGCTGGTGTACGCCGTCAACACCACCCAGACGATCTCCAAGTCCGTGT
TCGCGGACCTCTCCCTCTGGTTCAAGGGCCTGGAGGACCCCGAGGAGTACCTCCG
CATGGGCTTCGAGGTGTCCGCGTCCTCCTTCTTCCTGGACCGCGGGAACAGCAAG
                                            263

GTGAAGTTCGTGAAGGAGAACCCCTACTTCACCAACCGCATGAGCGTGAACAAC
CAGCCCTTCAAGAGCGAGAACGACCTGTCCTACTACAAGGTGTACGGCTTGCTGG
ACCAGAACATCCTGGAGCTGTACTTCAACGACGGCGACGTCGTGTCCACCAACA
CCTACTTCATGACCACCGGGAACGCCCTGGGCTCCGTGAACATGACGACGGGGG
TGGACAACCTGTTCTACATCGACAAGTTCCAGGTGCGCGAGGTCAAGTGACAATT
GGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGG
ACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCA
AACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGC
TTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTT
GCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGC
TCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGG
TACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGAT
GGGAACACAAATGGAGGATCCCGCGTCTCGAACAGAGCGCGCAGAGGAACGCT
GAAGGTCTCGCCTCTGTCGCACCTCAGCGCGGCATACACCACAATAACCACCTGA
CGAATGCGCTTGGTTCTTCGTCCATTAGCGAAGCGTCCGGTTCACACACGTGCCA
CGTTGGCGAGGTGGCAGGTGACAATGATCGGTGGAGCTGATGGTCGAAACGTTC
ACAGCCTAGGGATATCGAATTCGGCCGACAGGACGCGCGTCAAAGGTGCTGGTC
GTGTATGCCCTGGCCGGCAGGTCGTTGCTGCTGCTGGTTAGTGATTCCGCAACCC
TGATTTTGGCGTCTTATTTTGGCGTGGCAAACGCTGGCGCCCGCGAGCCGGGCCG
GCGGCGATGCGGTGCCCCACGGCTGCCGGAATCCAAGGGAGGCAAGAGCGCCCG
GGTCAGTTGAAGGGCTTTACGCGCAAGGTACAGCCGCTCCTGCAAGGCTGCGTG
GTGGAATTGGACGTGCAGGTCCTGCTGAAGTTCCTCCACCGCCTCACCAGCGGAC
AAAGCACCGGTGTATCAGGTCCGTGTCATCCACTCTAAAGAGCTCGACTACGACC
TACTGATGGCCCTAGATTCTTCATCAAAAACGCCTGAGACACTTGCCCAGGATTG
AAACTCCCTGAAGGGACCACCAGGGGCCCTGAGTTGTTCCTTCCCCCCGTGGCGA
GCTGCCAGCCAGGCTGTACCTGTGATCGAGGCTGGCGGGAAAATAGGCTTCGTG
TGCTCAGGTCATGGGAGGTGCAGGACAGCTCATGAAACGCCAACAATCGCACAA
TTCATGTCAAGCTAATCAGCTATTTCCTCTTCACGAGCTGTAATTGTCCCAAAATT
CTGGTCTACCGGGGGTGATCCTTCGTGTACGGGCCCTTCCCTCAACCCTAGGTAT
GCGCGCATGCGGTCGCCGCGCAACTCGCGCGAGGGCCGAGGGTTTGGGACGGGC
CGTCCCGAAATGCAGTTGCACCCGGATGCGTGGCACCTTTTTTGCGATAATTTAT
GCAATGGACTGCTCTGCAAAATTCTGGCTCTGTCGCCAACCCTAGGATCAGCGGC
GTAGGATTTCGTAATCATTCGTCCTGATGGGGAGCTACCGACTACCCTAATATCA
GCCCGACTGCCTGACGCCAGCGTCCACTTTTGTGCACACATTCCATTCGTGCCCA
AGACATTTCATTGTGGTGCGAAGCGTCCCCAGTTACGCTCACCTGTTTCCCGACC
TCCTTACTGTTCTGTCGACAGAGCGGGCCCACAGGCCGGTCGCAGCCACTAGTAT
GGCCACCGCATCCACTTTCTCGGCGTTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACCTGCGTCGC
TCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCGCGGGCGC
GCCCCCGACTGGTCCATGCTGTTCGCCGTGATCACCACCATCTTCTCCGCCGCCG
AGAAGCAGTGGACCAACCTGGAGTGGAAGCCCAAGCCCAACCCCCCCCAGCTGC
TGGACGACCACTTCGGCCCCCACGGCCTGGTGTTCCGCCGCACCTTCGCCATCCG
CAGCTACGAGGTGGGCCCCGACCGCTCCACCAGCATCGTGGCCGTGATGAACCA
CCTGCAGGAGGCCGCCCTGAACCACGCCAAGTCCGTGGGCATCCTGGGCGACGG
CTTCGGCACCACCCTGGAGATGTCCAAGCGCGACCTGATCTGGGTGGTGAAGCG
CACCCACGTGGCCGTGGAGCGCTACCCCGCCTGGGGCGACACCGTGGAGGTGGA
GTGCTGGGTGGGCGCCTCCGGCAACAACGGCCGCCGCCACGACTTCCTGGTGCG
CGACTGCAAGACCGGCGAGATCCTGACCCGCTGCACCTCCCTGAGCGTGATGAT
GAACACCCGCACCCGCCGCCTGAGCAAGATCCCCGAGGAGGTGCGCGGCGAGAT
CGGCCCCGCCTTCATCGACAACGTGGCCGTGAAGGACGAGGAGATCAAGAAGCC
CCAGAAGCTGAACGACTCCACCGCCGACTACATCCAGGGCGGCCTGACCCCCCG
                            264

CTGGAACGACCTGGACATCAACCAGCACGTGAACAACATCAAGTACGTGGACTG
GATCCTGGAGACCGTGCCCGACAGCATCTTCGAGAGCCACCACATCTCCTCCTTC
ACCATCGAGTACCGCCGCGAGTGCACCATGGACAGCGTGCTGCAGTCCCTGACC
ACCGTGAGCGGCGGCTCCTCCGAGGCCGGCCTGGTGTGCGAGCACCTGCTGCAG
CTGGAGGGCGGCAGCGAGGTGCTGCGCGCCAAGACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGCTG
ACCGACTCCTTCCGCGGCATCAGCGTGATCCCCGCCGAGTCCAGCGTGATGGACT
ACAAGGACCACGACGGCGACTACAAGGACCACGACATCGACTACAAGGACGAC
GACGACAAGTGACTCGAGTTAATTAACTCGAGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTAT
CGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCC
TTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTT
GTGTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCC
CCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTAC
GCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAG
CCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACT
GCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTGTAG
AGCTCCTTGTTTTCCAGAAGGAGTTGCTCCTTGAGCCTTTCATTCTCAGCCTCGAT
AACCTCCAAAGCCGCTCTAATTGTGGAGGGGGTTCGAATTTAAAAGCTTGGAATG
TTGGTTCGTGCGTCTGGAACAAGCCCAGACTTGTTGCTCACTGGGAAAAGGACCA
TCAGCTCCAAAAAACTTGCCGCTCAAACCGCGTACCTCTGCTTTCGCGCAATCTG
CCCTGTTGAAATCGCCACCACATTCATATTGTGACGCTTGAGCAGTCTGTAATTG
CCTCAGAATGTGGAATCATCTGCCCCCTGTGCGAGCCCATGCCAGGCATGTCGCG
GGCGAGGACACCCGCCACTCGTACAGCAGACCATTATGCTACCTCACAATAGTTC
ATAACAGTGACCATATTTCTCGAAGCTCCCCAACGAGCACCTCCATGCTCTGAGT
GGCCACCCCCCGGCCCTGGTGCTTGCGGAGGGCAGGTCAACCGGCATGGGGCTA
CCGAAATCCCCGACCGGATCCCACCACCCCCGCGATGGGAAGAATCTCTCCCCG
GGATGTGGGCCCACCACCAGCACAACCTGCTGGCCCAGGCGAGCGTCAAACCAT
ACCACACAAATATCCTTGGCATCGGCCCTGAATTCCTTCTGCCGCTCTGCTACCC
GGTGCTTCTGTCCGAAGCAGGGGTTGCTAGGGATCGCTCCGAGTCCGCAAACCCT
TGTCGCGTGGCGGGGCTTGTTCGAGCTTGTTCGAGCTTGAAGAGCCTCTAGAGTC
GACCTGCAGGCATGCAAGCTTGGCGTAATCATGGTCATAGCTGTTTCCTGTGTGA
AATTGTTATCCGCTCACAATTCCACACAACATACGAGCCGGAAGCATAAAGTGTA
AAGCCTGGGGTGCCTAATGAGTGAGCTAACTCACATTAATTGCGTTGCGCTCACT
GCCCGCTTTCCAGTCGGGAAACCTGTCGTGCCAGCTGCATTAATGAATCGGCCAA
CGCGCGGGGAGAGGCGGTTTGCGTATTGGGCGCTCTTCC
SEQ IDNO: 91
Codon-optimized C. camphora thioesterase sequence
ATGGCCACCGCATCCACTTTCTCGGCGTTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACCTGCGTC
GCTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCGCGGGC
GCGCCCCCGACTGGTCCATGCTGTTCGCCGTGATCACCACCATCTTCTCCGCCGC
CGAGAAGCAGTGGACCAACCTGGAGTGGAAGCCCAAGCCCAACCCCCCCCAGCT
GCTGGACGACCACTTCGGCCCCCACGGCCTGGTGTTCCGCCGCACCTTCGCCATC
CGCAGCTACGAGGTGGGCCCCGACCGCTCCACCAGCATCGTGGCCGTGATGAAC
CACCTGCAGGAGGCCGCCCTGAACCACGCCAAGTCCGTGGGCATCCTGGGCGAC
GGCTTCGGCACCACCCTGGAGATGTCCAAGCGCGACCTGATCTGGGTGGTGAAG
CGCACCCACGTGGCCGTGGAGCGCTACCCCGCCTGGGGCGACACCGTGGAGGTG
GAGTGCTGGGTGGGCGCCTCCGGCAACAACGGCCGCCGCCACGACTTCCTGGTG
CGCGACTGCAAGACCGGCGAGATCCTGACCCGCTGCACCTCCCTGAGCGTGATG
ATGAACACCCGCACCCGCCGCCTGAGCAAGATCCCCGAGGAGGTGCGCGGCGAG
                                          265

ATCGGCCCCGCCTTCATCGACAACGTGGCCGTGAAGGACGAGGAGATCAAGAAG
CCCCAGAAGCTGAACGACTCCACCGCCGACTACATCCAGGGCGGCCTGACCCCC
CGCTGGAACGACCTGGACATCAACCAGCACGTGAACAACATCAAGTACGTGGAC
TGGATCCTGGAGACCGTGCCCGACAGCATCTTCGAGAGCCACCACATCTCCTCCT
TCACCATCGAGTACCGCCGCGAGTGCACCATGGACAGCGTGCTGCAGTCCCTGAC
CACCGTGAGCGGCGGCTCCTCCGAGGCCGGCCTGGTGTGCGAGCACCTGCTGCA
GCTGGAGGGCGGCAGCGAGGTGCTGCGCGCCAAGACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGCT
GACCGACTCCTTCCGCGGCATCAGCGTGATCCCCGCCGAGTCCAGCGTGATGGAC
TACAAGGACCACGACGGCGACTACAAGGACCACGACATCGACTACAAGGACGAC
GACGACAAGTGA
SEQ IDNO: 92
Codon-optimized U. californica thioesterase sequence
GGCGCGCCCCCGACTGGTCCATGCTGTTCGCCGTGATCACCACCATCTTCAGCGC
CGCCGAGAAGCAGTGGACCAACCTGGAGTGGAAGCCCAAGCCCAAGCTGCCCCA
GCTGCTGGACGACCACTTCGGCCTGCACGGCCTGGTGTTCCGCCGCACCTTCGCC
ATCCGCTCCTACGAGGTGGGCCCCGACCGCAGCACCTCCATCCTGGCCGTGATGA
ACCACATGCAGGAGGCCACCCTGAACCACGCCAAGAGCGTGGGCATCCTGGGCG
ACGGCTTCGGCACCACCCTGGAGATGTCCAAGCGCGACCTGATGTGGGTGGTGC
GCCGCACCCACGTGGCCGTGGAGCGCTACCCCACCTGGGGCGACACCGTGGAGG
TGGAGTGCTGGATCGGCGCCAGCGGCAACAACGGCATGCGCCGCGACTTCCTGG
TGCGCGACTGCAAGACCGGCGAGATCCTGACCCGCTGCACCTCCCTGAGCGTGCT
GATGAACACCCGCACCCGCCGCCTGAGCACCATCCCCGACGAGGTGCGCGGCGA
GATCGGCCCCGCCTTCATCGACAACGTGGCCGTGAAGGACGACGAGATCAAGAA
GCTGCAGAAGCTGAACGACTCCACCGCCGACTACATCCAGGGCGGCCTGACCCC
CCGCTGGAACGACCTGGACGTGAACCAGCACGTGAACAACCTGAAGTACGTGGC
CTGGGTGTTCGAGACCGTGCCCGACAGCATCTTCGAGTCCCACCACATCAGCTCC
TTCACCCTGGAGTACCGCCGCGAGTGCACCCGCGACTCCGTGCTGCGCAGCCTGA
CCACCGTGAGCGGCGGCAGCTCCGAGGCCGGCCTGGTGTGCGACCACCTGCTGC
AGCTGGAGGGCGGCAGCGAGGTGCTGCGCGCCCGCACCGAGTGGCGCCCCAAGC
TGACCGACTCCTTCCGCGGCATCAGCGTGATCCCCGCCGAGCCCCGCGTGATGGA
CTACAAGGACCACGACGGCGACTACAAGGACCACGACATCGACTACAAGGACGA
CGACGACAAGTGACTCGAG
SEQ IDNO: 93
Codon-optimized U. americana thioesterase sequence
GGCGCGCCCAGCTGCCCGACTGGAGCATGCTGCTGGCCGCGATCACCACCCTGTT
CCTGGCGGCCGAGAAGCAGTGGATGATGCTGGACTGGAAGCCCAAGCGCCCCGA
CATGCTGGTGGACCCCTTCGGCCTGGGCCGCTTCGTGCAGGACGGCCTGGTGTTC
CGCAACAACTTCAGCATCCGCAGCTACGAGATCGGCGCGGACCGCACCGCCAGC
ATCGAGACCCTGATGAACCACCTGCAGGAGACCGCCCTGAACCACGTGAAGAGC
GTGGGCCTGCTGGAGGACGGCCTGGGCAGCACCCGCGAGATGAGCCTGCGCAAC
CTGATCTGGGTGGTGACCAAGATGCAGGTGGCGGTGGACCGCTACCCCACCTGG
GGCGACGAGGTGCAGGTGAGCAGCTGGGCGACCGCCATCGGCAAGAACGGCAT
GCGCCGCGAGTGGATCGTGACCGACTTCCGCACCGGCGAGACCCTGCTGCGCGC
CACCAGCGTGTGGGTGATGATGAACAAGCTGACCCGCCGCATCAGCAAGATCCC
CGAGGAGGTGTGGCACGAGATCGGCCCCAGCTTCATCGACGCGCCCCCCCTGCC
CACCGTGGAGGACGACGGCCGCAAGCTGACCCGCTTCGACGAGAGCAGCGCCGA
                                            266

CTTCATCCGCAAGGGCCTGACCCCCCGCTGGAGCGACCTGGACATCAACCAGCA
CGTGAACAACGTGAAGTACATCGGCTGGCTGCTGGAGAGCGCGCCCCCCGAGAT
CCACGAGAGCCACGAGATCGCCAGCCTGACCCTGGAGTACCGCCGCGAGTGCGG
CCGCGACAGCGTGCTGAACAGCGCCACCAAGGTGAGCGACAGCAGCCAGCTGGG
CAAGAGCGCCGTGGAGTGCAACCACCTGGTGCGCCTGCAGAACGGCGGCGAGAT
CGTGAAGGGCCGCACCGTGTGGCGCCCCAAGCGCCCCCTGTACAACGACGGCGC
CGTGGTGGACGTGCCCGCCAAGACCAGCGATGACGATGACAAGCTGGGATGACT
CGAG
SEQ IDNO: 94
Codon-optimized C. hookeriana thioesterase sequence
ACTAGTATGGCTATCAAGACGAACAGGCAGCCTGTGGAGAAGCCTCCGTTCACG
ATCGGGACGCTGCGCAAGGCCATCCCCGCGCACTGTTTCGAGCGCTCGGCGCTTC
GTGGGCGCGCCCAGCTGCCCGACTGGAGCCGCCTGCTGACCGCCATCACCACCGT
GTTCGTGAAGTCCAAGCGCCCCGACATGCACGACCGCAAGTCCAAGCGCCCCGA
CATGCTGGTGGACAGCTTCGGCCTGGAGTCCACCGTGCAGGACGGCCTGGTGTTC
CGCCAGTCCTTCTCCATCCGCTCCTACGAGATCGGCACCGACCGCACCGCCAGCA
TCGAGACCCTGATGAACCACCTGCAGGAGACCTCCCTGAACCACTGCAAGAGCA
CCGGCATCCTGCTGGACGGCTTCGGCCGCACCCTGGAGATGTGCAAGCGCGACCT
GATCTGGGTGGTGATTAAGATGCAGATCAAGGTGAACCGCTACCCCGCCTGGGG
CGACACCGTGGAGATCAACACCCGCTTCAGCCGCCTGGGCAAGATCGGCATGGG
CCGCGACTGGCTGATCTCCGACTGCAACACCGGCGAGATCCTGGTGCGCGCCACC
AGCGCCTACGCCATGATGAACCAGAAGACCCGCCGCCTGTCCAAGCTGCCCTAC
GAGGTGCACCAGGAGATCGTGCCCCTGTTCGTGGACAGCCCCGTGATCGAGGAC
TCCGACCTGAAGGTGCACAAGTTCAAGGTGAAGACCGGCGACAGCATCCAGAAG
GGCCTGACCCCCGGCTGGAACGACCTGGACGTGAACCAGCACGTGTCCAACGTG
AAGTACATCGGCTGGATCCTGGAGAGCATGCCCACCGAGGTGCTGGAGACCCAG
GAGCTGTGCTCCCTGGCCCTGGAGTACCGCCGCGAGTGCGGCCGCGACTCCGTGC
TGGAGAGCGTGACCGCCATGGACCCCAGCAAGGTGGGCGTGCGCTCCCAGTACC
AGCACCTGCTGCGCCTGGAGGACGGCACCGCCATCGTGAACGGCGCCACCGAGT
GGCGCCCCAAGAACGCCGGCGCCAACGGCGCCATCTCCACCGGCAAGACCAGCA
ACGGCAACTCCGTGTCCATGGACTACAAGGACCACGACGGCGACTACAAGGACC
ACGACATCGACTACAAGGACGACGACGACAAGTGACTCGAG
SEQ IDNO: 95
U. californica thioesterase forward primer
CTGGGCGACGGCTTCGGCAC
SEQ IDNO: 96
U. californica thiesterase reverse primer
AAGTCGCGGCGCATGCCGTT
SEQ IDNO: 97
U. americana thioesterase forward primer
CCCAGCTGCTCACCTGCACC
                                           267

SEQ IDNO: 98
U. americana thioesterase reverse primer
CACCCAAGGCCAACGGCAGCGCCGTG
SEQ IDNO: 99
C. hookeriana thioesterase forward primer
TACCCCGCCTGGGGCGACAC
SEQ ID NO: 100
C. hookeriana thioesterase reverse primer
AGCTTGGACAGGCGGCGGGT
SEQ ID NO: 101
FAD primer 1
5'-TCACTTCATGCCGGCGGTCC-3'
SEQ ID NO: 102
FAD primer 2
5' - GCGCTCCTGCTTGGCTCGAA-3'
SEQ ID NO: 103
pSZ1124 (FAD2B) 5' genomic targeting sequence
GCTCTTCGAGACGTGGTCTGAATCCTCCAGGCGGGTTTCCCCGAGAAAGAAAGG
GTGCCGATTTCAAAGCAGAGCCATGTGCCGGGCCCTGTGGCCTGTGTTGGCGCCT
ATGTAGTCACCCCCCCTCACCCAATTGTCGCCAGTTTGCGCAATCCATAAACTCA
AAACTGCAGCTTCTGAGCTGCGCTGTTCAAGAACACCTCTGGGGTTTGCTCACCC
GCGAGGTCGACGCCCAGCATGGCTATCAAGACGAACAGGCAGCCTGTGGAGAAG
CCTCCGTTCACGATCGGGACGCTGCGCAAGGCCATCCCCGCGCACTGTTTCGAGC
GCTCGGCGCTTCGTAGCAGCATGTACCTGGCCTTTGACATCGCGGTCATGTCCCT
GCTCTACGTCGCGTCGACGTACATCGACCCTGCGCCGGTGCCTACGTGGGTCAAG
TATGGCGTCATGTGGCCGCTCTACTGGTTCTTCCAGGTGTGTGTGAGGGTTGTGG
TTGCCCGTATCGAGGTCCTGGTGGCGCGCATGGGGGAGAAGGCGCCTGTCCCGCT
GACCCCCCCGGCTACCCTCCCGGCACCTTCCAGGGCGCCTTCGGCACGGGTGTCT
GGGTGTGCGCGCACGAGTGCGGCCACCAGGCCTTTTCCTCCAGCCAGGCCATCAA
CGACGGCGTGGGCCTGGTGTTCCACAGCCTGCTGCTGGTGCCCTACTACTCCTGG
AAGCACTCGCACCGGGTACC
SEQ ID NO: 104
pSZ1124 (FAD2B) 3' genomic targeting sequence
CCGCCACCACTCCAACACGGGGTGCCTGGACAAGGACGAGGTGTTTGTGCCGCC
GCACCGCGCAGTGGCGCACGAGGGCCTGGAGTGGGAGGAGTGGCTGCCCATCCG
CATGGGCAAGGTGCTGGTCACCCTGACCCTGGGCTGGCCGCTGTACCTCATGTTC
                                          268

AACGTCGCCTCGCGGCCGTACCCGCGCTTCGCCAACCACTTTGACCCGTGGTCGC
CCATCTTCAGCAAGCGCGAGCGCATCGAGGTGGTCATCTCCGACCTGGCGCTGGT
GGCGGTGCTCAGCGGGCTCAGCGTGCTGGGCCGCACCATGGGCTGGGCCTGGCT
GGTCAAGACCTACGTGGTGCCCTACCTGATCGTGAACATGTGGCTCGTGCTCATC
ACGCTGCTCCAGCACACGCACCCGGCGCTGCCGCACTACTTCGAGAAGGACTGG
GACTGGCTGCGCGGCGCCATGGCCACCGTGGACCGCTCCATGGGCCCGCCCTTCA
TGGACAACATCCTGCACCACATCTCCGACACCCACGTGCTGCACCACCTCTTCAG
CACCATCCCGCACTACCACGCCGAGGAGGCCTCCGCCGCCATCAGGCCCATCCTG
GGCAAGTACTACCAGTCCGACAGCCGCTGGGTCGGCCGCGCCCTGTGGGAGGAC
TGGCGCGACTGCCGCTACGTCGTCCCGGACGCGCCCGAGGACGACTCCGCGCTCT
GGTTCCACAAGTGAGTGAGTGAGAAGAGC
SEQ ID NO: 105
S. cerevisiae suc2 cassette
CTTTCTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTT
CCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGG
CTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCC
CCCGATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGA
TCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGG
GCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACGGCGCGCCATGCTGCTG
CAGGCCTTCCTGTTCCTGCTGGCCGGCTTCGCCGCCAAGATCAGCGCCTCCATGA
CGAACGAGACGTCCGACCGCCCCCTGGTGCACTTCACCCCCAACAAGGGCTGGA
TGAACGACCCCAACGGCCTGTGGTACGACGAGAAGGACGCCAAGTGGCACCTGT
ACTTCCAGTACAACCCGAACGACACCGTCTGGGGGACGCCCTTGTTCTGGGGCCA
CGCCACGTCCGACGACCTGACCAACTGGGAGGACCAGCCCATCGCCATCGCCCC
GAAGCGCAACGACTCCGGCGCCTTCTCCGGCTCCATGGTGGTGGACTACAACAA
CACCTCCGGCTTCTTCAACGACACCATCGACCCGCGCCAGCGCTGCGTGGCCATC
TGGACCTACAACACCCCGGAGTCCGAGGAGCAGTACATCTCCTACAGCCTGGAC
GGCGGCTACACCTTCACCGAGTACCAGAAGAACCCCGTGCTGGCCGCCAACTCC
ACCCAGTTCCGCGACCCGAAGGTCTTCTGGTACGAGCCCTCCCAGAAGTGGATCA
TGACCGCGGCCAAGTCCCAGGACTACAAGATCGAGATCTACTCCTCCGACGACCT
GAAGTCCTGGAAGCTGGAGTCCGCGTTCGCCAACGAGGGCTTCCTCGGCTACCA
GTACGAGTGCCCCGGCCTGATCGAGGTCCCCACCGAGCAGGACCCCAGCAAGTC
CTACTGGGTGATGTTCATCTCCATCAACCCCGGCGCCCCGGCCGGCGGCTCCTTC
AACCAGTACTTCGTCGGCAGCTTCAACGGCACCCACTTCGAGGCCTTCGACAACC
AGTCCCGCGTGGTGGACTTCGGCAAGGACTACTACGCCCTGCAGACCTTCTTCAA
CACCGACCCGACCTACGGGAGCGCCCTGGGCATCGCGTGGGCCTCCAACTGGGA
GTACTCCGCCTTCGTGCCCACCAACCCCTGGCGCTCCTCCATGTCCCTCGTGCGCA
AGTTCTCCCTCAACACCGAGTACCAGGCCAACCCGGAGACGGAGCTGATCAACC
TGAAGGCCGAGCCGATCCTGAACATCAGCAACGCCGGCCCCTGGAGCCGGTTCG
CCACCAACACCACGTTGACGAAGGCCAACAGCTACAACGTCGACCTGTCCAACA
GCACCGGCACCCTGGAGTTCGAGCTGGTGTACGCCGTCAACACCACCCAGACGA
TCTCCAAGTCCGTGTTCGCGGACCTCTCCCTCTGGTTCAAGGGCCTGGAGGACCC
CGAGGAGTACCTCCGCATGGGCTTCGAGGTGTCCGCGTCCTCCTTCTTCCTGGAC
CGCGGGAACAGCAAGGTGAAGTTCGTGAAGGAGAACCCCTACTTCACCAACCGC
ATGAGCGTGAACAACCAGCCCTTCAAGAGCGAGAACGACCTGTCCTACTACAAG
GTGTACGGCTTGCTGGACCAGAACATCCTGGAGCTGTACTTCAACGACGGCGAC
GTCGTGTCCACCAACACCTACTTCATGACCACCGGGAACGCCCTGGGCTCCGTGA
ACATGACGACGGGGGTGGACAACCTGTTCTACATCGACAAGTTCCAGGTGCGCG
                            269

AGGTCAAGTGACAATTGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGAC
GCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATAT
CCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTT
TGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCC
CTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCC
CTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTC
CGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCA
CGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGA
SEQ ID NO: 106
pSZ1125 (FAD2C) 5' genomic targeting sequence
GCTCTTCGAGGGGCTGGTCTGAATCCTTCAGGCGGGTGTTACCCGAGAAAGAAA
GGGTGCCGATTTCAAAGCAGACCCATGTGCCGGGCCCTGTGGCCTGTGTTGGCGC
CTATGTAGTCACCCCCCCTCACCCAATTGTCGCCAGTTTGCGCACTCCATAAACTC
AAAACAGCAGCTTCTGAGCTGCGCTGTTCAAGAACACCTCTGGGGTTTGCTCACC
CGCGAGGTCGACGCCCAGCATGGCTATCAAGACGAACAGGCAGCCTGTGGAGAA
GCCTCCGTTCACGATCGGGACGCTGCGCAAGGCCATCCCCGCGCACTGTTTCGAG
CGCTCGGCGCTTCGTAGCAGCATGTACCTGGCCTTTGACATCGCGGTCATGTCCC
TGCTCTACGTCGCGTCGACGTACATCGACCCTGCACCGGTGCCTACGTGGGTCAA
GTACGGCATCATGTGGCCGCTCTACTGGTTCTTCCAGGTGTGTTTGAGGGTTTTGG
TTGCCCGTATTGAGGTCCTGGTGGCGCGCATGGAGGAGAAGGCGCCTGTCCCGCT
GACCCCCCCGGCTACCCTCCCGGCACCTTCCAGGGCGCCTTCGGCACGGGTGTCT
GGGTGTGCGCGCACGAGTGCGGCCACCAGGCCTTTTCCTCCAGCCAGGCCATCAA
CGACGGCGTGGGCCTGGTGTTCCACAGCCTGCTGCTGGTGCCCTACTACTCCTGG
AAGCACTCGCACCGGGTACC
SEQ ID NO: 107
pSZ1125 (FAD2C) 3' genomic targeting sequence
CCGCCACCACTCCAACACGGGGTGCCTGGACAAGGACGAGGTGTTTGTGCCGCC
GCACCGCGCAGTGGCGCACGAGGGCCTGGAGTGGGAGGAGTGGCTGCCCATCCG
CATGGGCAAGGTGCTGGTCACCCTGACCCTGGGCTGGCCGCTGTACCTCATGTTC
AACGTCGCCTCGCGGCCGTACCCGCGCTTCGCCAACCACTTTGACCCGTGGTCGC
CCATCTTCAGCAAGCGCGAGCGCATCGAGGTGGTCATCTCCGACCTGGCGCTGGT
GGCGGTGCTCAGCGGGCTCAGCGTGCTGGGCCGCACCATGGGCTGGGCCTGGCT
GGTCAAGACCTACGTGGTGCCCTACCTGATCGTGAACATGTGGCTCGTGCTCATC
ACGCTGCTCCAGCACACGCACCCGGCGCTGCCGCACTACTTCGAGAAGGACTGG
GACTGGCTGCGCGGCGCCATGGCCACCGTGGACCGCTCCATGGGCCCGCCCTTCA
TGGACAACATCCTGCACCACATCTCCGACACCCACGTGCTGCACCACCTCTTCAG
CACCATCCCGCACTACCACGCCGAGGAGGCCTCCGCCGCCATCAGGCCCATCCTG
GGCAAGTACTACCAGTCCGACAGCCGCTGGGTCGGCCGCGCCCTGTGGGAGGAC
TGGCGCGACTGCCGCTACGTCGTCCCGGACGCGCCCGAGGACGACTCCGCGCTCT
GGTTCCACAAGTGAGTGAGTGAGAAGAGC
SEQ ID NO: 108
S. carlbergensis MELl amino acid sequence
MFAFYFLT ACISLKGVFGVSPSYNGLGLTPQMGWDNWNTFACDVSEQLLLDTADRI
SDLGLKDMGYKYIILDDCWSSGRDSDGFLVADEQKFPNGMGHVADHLHNNSFLFG
                                          270

MYSSAGEYTCAGYPGSLGREEEDAQFFANNRVDYLKYDNCYNKGQFGTPEISYHRY
KAMSDALNKTGRPIFYSLCNWGQDLTFYWGSGIANSWRMSGDVTAEFTRPDSRCPC
DGDEYDCKY AGFHCSIMNILNKAAPMGQNAGVGGWNDLDNLEVGVGNLTDDEEK
AHFSMWAMVKSPLIIGANVNNLKASSYSIYSQASVIAINQDSNGIPATRVWRYYVSD
TDEYGQGEIQMWSGPLDNGDQVVALLNGGSVSRPMNTTLEEIFFDSNLGSKKLTST
WDIYDLWANRVDNSTASAILGRNKTATGILYNATEQSYKDGLSKNDTRLFGQKIGSL
SPNAILNTTVPAHGIAFYRLRPSS
SEQ ID NO: 109
S. carlbergensis MELl native signal peptide amino acid sequence
MFAFYFLT ACISLKGVFG
SEQ ID NO: 110
Relevant sequence of S. carlbergensis MELl expression cassette
GCGGCCGCGTGGACGAGGGCTACAACCCCGCCTACGGCGCGCGCCCGCTGCGCC
GCGCCATCATGCGCCTGCTGGAGGACGCGCTGGCCGAGCGCATGCTCGCCGGCG
ACGTCAAGGAGGGCGACTCGGTCATCATGGACGTCGATGGCGATGGCGCCATCA
GCGTCCTCAACGGAGACCGCACCCACACCACCACCATCGACTCCTCCCCGGCGG
GCATCTCGTAGACGCGAGAGGGAGGGAGGGAGGATTTTCAGAGGGAGATGAGA
CGAGGACTGGGCCGGGGGCCTTGGGGCGCTGCTGGAGCGTGGTGAGAGCGCGGC
GGACGTGCCTTTTCTTCTTCCGTGCGCGCGCTCTTGGCCATTGATCCCCGATTCGC
GCCCGCATCCCCCCACTGCCCCCATCATCTTGCCTGTTGTCGTGGCACTGACATA
AACCCCCTGCGCTGCGCTGCTCCGCTACTATTGATATAGGTCTCACGCGCCAATC
TTTTTTGCTCCGGGTAACCGTCTGGACGCCAGAATTCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGACAC
TTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCAAC
ACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGAT
GCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGACAT
TATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTACAC
AGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGT
TTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACACTAGTATGTTCGCGTTCTACTTCCTGACGGCCTG
CATCTCCCTGAAGGGCGTGTTCGGCGTCTCCCCCTCCTACAACGGCCTGGGCCTG
ACGCCCCAGATGGGCTGGGACAACTGGAACACGTTCGCCTGCGACGTCTCCGAG
CAGCTGCTGCTGGACACGGCCGACCGCATCTCCGACCTGGGCCTGAAGGACATG
GGCTACAAGTACATCATCCTGGACGACTGCTGGTCCTCCGGCCGCGACTCCGACG
GCTTCCTGGTCGCCGACGAGCAGAAGTTCCCCAACGGCATGGGCCACGTCGCCG
ACCACCTGCACAACAACTCCTTCCTGTTCGGCATGTACTCCTCCGCGGGCGAGTA
CACGTGCGCCGGCTACCCCGGCTCCCTGGGCCGCGAGGAGGAGGACGCCCAGTT
CTTCGCGAACAACCGCGTGGACTACCTGAAGTACGACAACTGCTACAACAAGGG
CCAGTTCGGCACGCCCGAGATCTCCTACCACCGCTACAAGGCCATGTCCGACGCC
CTGAACAAGACGGGCCGCCCCATCTTCTACTCCCTGTGCAACTGGGGCCAGGACC
TGACCTTCTACTGGGGCTCCGGCATCGCGAACTCCTGGCGCATGTCCGGCGACGT
CACGGCGGAGTTCACGCGCCCCGACTCCCGCTGCCCCTGCGACGGCGACGAGTA
CGACTGCAAGTACGCCGGCTTCCACTGCTCCATCATGAACATCCTGAACAAGGCC
GCCCCCATGGGCCAGAACGCGGGCGTCGGCGGCTGGAACGACCTGGACAACCTG
GAGGTCGGCGTCGGCAACCTGACGGACGACGAGGAGAAGGCGCACTTCTCCATG
TGGGCCATGGTGAAGTCCCCCCTGATCATCGGCGCGAACGTGAACAACCTGAAG
GCCTCCTCCTACTCCATCTACTCCCAGGCGTCCGTCATCGCCATCAACCAGGACT
CCAACGGCATCCCCGCCACGCGCGTCTGGCGCTACTACGTGTCCGACACGGACG
                                            271

AGTACGGCCAGGGCGAGATCCAGATGTGGTCCGGCCCCCTGGACAACGGCGACC
AGGTCGTGGCGCTGCTGAACGGCGGCTCCGTGTCCCGCCCCATGAACACGACCCT
GGAGGAGATCTTCTTCGACTCCAACCTGGGCTCCAAGAAGCTGACCTCCACCTGG
GACATCTACGACCTGTGGGCGAACCGCGTCGACAACTCCACGGCGTCCGCCATCC
TGGGCCGCAACAAGACCGCCACCGGCATCCTGTACAACGCCACCGAGCAGTCCT
ACAAGGACGGCCTGTCCAAGAACGACACCCGCCTGTTCGGCCAGAAGATCGGCT
CCCTGTCCCCCAACGCGATCCTGAACACGACCGTCCCCGCCCACGGCATCGCGTT
CTACCGCCTGCGCCCCTCCTCCTGACAATTGAAGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTAT
CGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCC
TTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTT
GTGTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCC
CCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTAC
GCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAG
CCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACT
GCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTTGAG
CTCAGAATAGTATCGGGTGATGCGAAGTCAGAACCAGGCAGGGCCTGTCGCCTG
AGGTGGCAACGATGGGAAGCAATCAATCTGGGTACAGTCGTCCGCACGATCCCG
TGATCTCCCCCACCGACACCTATCCCCGCCCATCCCGGCCCACCCTTTCAGTCCCC
TCAGCATGCATTGTGCACCGCGACAAAGCATGTCTGCTCGTGCACTGGTTCAGGC
CACGGCGCACCGAGTCCTCGCCCTTCGCAGAGTGATCACCCTCCCCGGAACCAGC
CACGCTCGCTGCTGCGGGCCGATCAGCCGCGCGCACTCCCTGCAACTAGGGACA
ACTCAGGCAACCACGCGCCTCACAAGCATGGCCGCCGTGGCATCCAACCCGCTC
GTGACGGTGGGTGCGCAAGTGCCAGGGGCCTCGTCGTCACGGCGTGCATCCTCG
AGGGATGCGATCCGGCAACTATATGTCGTTTATCTCCCCACCAATCACAGGATGA
GCCCCTGTCTAGA
SEQ ID NO: 111
Codon-optimized S. carbergensis MELl sequence
ATGTTCGCGTTCTACTTCCTGACGGCCTGCATCTCCCTGAAGGGCGTGTTCGGCGT
CTCCCCCTCCTACAACGGCCTGGGCCTGACGCCCCAGATGGGCTGGGACAACTGG
AACACGTTCGCCTGCGACGTCTCCGAGCAGCTGCTGCTGGACACGGCCGACCGC
ATCTCCGACCTGGGCCTGAAGGACATGGGCTACAAGTACATCATCCTGGACGACT
GCTGGTCCTCCGGCCGCGACTCCGACGGCTTCCTGGTCGCCGACGAGCAGAAGTT
CCCCAACGGCATGGGCCACGTCGCCGACCACCTGCACAACAACTCCTTCCTGTTC
GGCATGTACTCCTCCGCGGGCGAGTACACGTGCGCCGGCTACCCCGGCTCCCTGG
GCCGCGAGGAGGAGGACGCCCAGTTCTTCGCGAACAACCGCGTGGACTACCTGA
AGTACGACAACTGCTACAACAAGGGCCAGTTCGGCACGCCCGAGATCTCCTACC
ACCGCTACAAGGCCATGTCCGACGCCCTGAACAAGACGGGCCGCCCCATCTTCTA
CTCCCTGTGCAACTGGGGCCAGGACCTGACCTTCTACTGGGGCTCCGGCATCGCG
AACTCCTGGCGCATGTCCGGCGACGTCACGGCGGAGTTCACGCGCCCCGACTCCC
GCTGCCCCTGCGACGGCGACGAGTACGACTGCAAGTACGCCGGCTTCCACTGCTC
CATCATGAACATCCTGAACAAGGCCGCCCCCATGGGCCAGAACGCGGGCGTCGG
CGGCTGGAACGACCTGGACAACCTGGAGGTCGGCGTCGGCAACCTGACGGACGA
CGAGGAGAAGGCGCACTTCTCCATGTGGGCCATGGTGAAGTCCCCCCTGATCATC
GGCGCGAACGTGAACAACCTGAAGGCCTCCTCCTACTCCATCTACTCCCAGGCGT
CCGTCATCGCCATCAACCAGGACTCCAACGGCATCCCCGCCACGCGCGTCTGGCG
CTACTACGTGTCCGACACGGACGAGTACGGCCAGGGCGAGATCCAGATGTGGTC
CGGCCCCCTGGACAACGGCGACCAGGTCGTGGCGCTGCTGAACGGCGGCTCCGT
GTCCCGCCCCATGAACACGACCCTGGAGGAGATCTTCTTCGACTCCAACCTGGGC
                                         272

TCCAAGAAGCTGACCTCCACCTGGGACATCTACGACCTGTGGGCGAACCGCGTC
GACAACTCCACGGCGTCCGCCATCCTGGGCCGCAACAAGACCGCCACCGGCATC
CTGTACAACGCCACCGAGCAGTCCTACAAGGACGGCCTGTCCAAGAACGACACC
CGCCTGTTCGGCCAGAAGATCGGCTCCCTGTCCCCCAACGCGATCCTGAACACGA
CCGTCCCCGCCCACGGCATCGCGTTCTACCGCCTGCGCCCCTCCTCCTGA
SEQ ID NO: 112
5' Clp homologous recombination targeting sequence
GCGGCCGCGTGGACGAGGGCTACAACCCCGCCTACGGCGCGCGCCCGCTGCGCC
GCGCCATCATGCGCCTGCTGGAGGACGCGCTGGCCGAGCGCATGCTCGCCGGCG
ACGTCAAGGAGGGCGACTCGGTCATCATGGACGTCGATGGCGATGGCGCCATCA
GCGTCCTCAACGGAGACCGCACCCACACCACCACCATCGACTCCTCCCCGGCGG
GCATCTCGTAGACGCGAGAGGGAGGGAGGGAGGATTTTCAGAGGGAGATGAGA
CGAGGACTGGGCCGGGGGCCTTGGGGCGCTGCTGGAGCGTGGTGAGAGCGCGGC
GGACGTGCCTTTTCTTCTTCCGTGCGCGCGCTCTTGGCCATTGATCCCCGATTCGC
GCCCGCATCCCCCCACTGCCCCCATCATCTTGCCTGTTGTCGTGGCACTGACATA
AACCCCCTGCGCTGCGCTGCTCCGCTACTATTGATATAGGTCTCACGCGCCAATC
TTTTTTGCTCCGGGTAACCGTCTGGACGCCAGAATTC
SEQ ID NO: 113
3' Clp homologous recombination targeting sequence
GAGCTCAGAATAGTATCGGGTGATGCGAAGTCAGAACCAGGCAGGGCCTGTCGC
CTGAGGTGGCAACGATGGGAAGCAATCAATCTGGGTACAGTCGTCCGCACGATC
CCGTGATCTCCCCCACCGACACCTATCCCCGCCCATCCCGGCCCACCCTTTCAGTC
CCCTCAGCATGCATTGTGCACCGCGACAAAGCATGTCTGCTCGTGCACTGGTTCA
GGCCACGGCGCACCGAGTCCTCGCCCTTCGCAGAGTGATCACCCTCCCCGGAACC
AGCCACGCTCGCTGCTGCGGGCCGATCAGCCGCGCGCACTCCCTGCAACTAGGG
ACAACTCAGGCAACCACGCGCCTCACAAGCATGGCCGCCGTGGCATCCAACCCG
CTCGTGACGGTGGGTGCGCAAGTGCCAGGGGCCTCGTCGTCACGGCGTGCATCCT
CGAGGGATGCGATCCGGCAACTATATGTCGTTTATCTCCCCACCAATCACAGGAT
GAGCCCCTGTCTAGA
SEQ ID NO: 114
Chlamydomonas reinhardtii TUB2 promoter/5' UTR
CTTTCTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTT
CCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGG
CTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCC
CCCGATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGA
TCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGG
GCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAAC
SEQ ID NO: 115
Chlorella vulgaris nitrate reductase 3'UTR
GCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGA
CTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAA
                                           273

ACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTIGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTITTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCT
TGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTITCATATCGCTTG
CATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCT
CCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTIGGTTIGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGT
ACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATG
GGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTI
SEQ ID NO: 116
A. niger AlgC amino acid sequence
MIGSSHAVVALGLFTLYGHSAAAPAIGASNSQTIVTNGTSFALNGDNVSYRFHVNSS
TGDLISDHFGGVVSGTIPSPVEPAVNGWVGMPGRIRREFPDQGRGDFRIPAVRIRESA
GYTVSDLQYVSHEVIEGKYALPGLPATFGDAQDATTLVVHLYDNYSSVAADLSYSIF
PKYDAIVRSVNVTNQGPGNITIEALASISIDFPYEDLDMVSLRGDWAREANVQRSKV
QYGVQGFGSSTGYSSHLHNPFLAIVDPATIESQGEAWGFNLVYTGSFSAQVEKGSQG
FTRALLGFNPDQLSWNLGPGETLTSPECVAVYSDKGLGSVSRKFHRLYRNHLMKSK
FATSDRPVLLNSWEGVYFDYNQSSIETLAEESAALGVHLFVMDDGWFGDKYPRVSD
NAGLGDWMPNPARFPDGLTPVVQDITNLTVNGTESTKLRFGIWVEPEMVNPNSTLY
HEHPEWALHAGPYPRTERRNQLVLNLALPAVQDFIIDFMTNLLQDTGISYVKWDNN
RGIHETPSPSTDHQYMLGLYRVFDTLTTRFPDVLWEGCASGGGRFDAGMLQYVPQI
WTSDNTDAIDRITIQFGTSLAYPPSAMGAHLSAVPNAQTGRTVPFTFRAHVAMMGGS
FGLELDPATVEGDEIVPELLALAEKVNPIILNGDLYRLRLPQDSQWPAALFVSQDGAQ
AVLFYFQVQPNVNHAVPWVRLQGLDPKADYTVDGDQTYSGATLMNLGLQYSFDTE
YGSKVVFLERQ
SEQ ID NO: 117
A. niger AlgC native signal peptide amino acid sequence
MIGSSHAVVALGLFTLYGHSAAAPAIGA
SEQ ID NO: 118
Codon-optimized A. niger AlgC coding sequence
ATGATCGGCTCCTCCCACGCGGTCGTCGCCCTGGGCCTGTTCACCCTGTACGGCC
ACTCCGCCGCCGCGCCCGCCATCGGCGCCTCCAACTCCCAGACCATCGTCACGAA
CGGCACCTCCTTCGCCCTGAACGGCGACAACGTGTCCTACCGCTTCCACGTGAAC
TCCTCCACGGGCGACCTGATCTCCGACCACTTCGGCGGCGTGGTGTCCGGCACCA
TCCCCTCCCCCGTGGAGCCCGCGGTCAACGGCTGGGTGGGCATGCCCGGCCGCAT
CCGCCGCGAGTTCCCCGACCAGGGCCGCGGCGACTTCCGCATCCCCGCGGTGCGC
ATCCGCGAGTCCGCCGGCTACACCGTCTCCGACCTGCAGTACGTGTCCCACGAGG
TGATCGAGGGCAAGTACGCGCTGCCCGGCCTGCCCGCCACGTICGGCGACGCCC
AGGACGCCACCACCCTGGTGGTGCACCTGTACGACAACTACTCCTCCGTCGCGGC
CGACCTGTCCTACTCCATCTTCCCCAAGTACGACGCGATCGTCCGCTCCGTGAAC
GTGACCAACCAGGGCCCCGGCAACATCACCATCGAGGCGCTGGCCTCCATCTCC
ATCGACTTCCCCTACGAGGACCTGGACATGGTGTCCCTGCGCGGCGACTGGGCCC
GCGAGGCGAACGTGCAGCGCTCCAAGGTCCAGTACGGCGTGCAGGGCTICGGCT
CCTCCACCGGCTACTCCTCCCACCTGCACAACCCCTTCCTGGCGATCGTCGACCC
CGCGACCACCGAGTCCCAGGGCGAGGCCTGGGGCTICAACCTGGTCTACACCGG
CTCCTTCTCCGCCCAGGTCGAGAAGGGCTCCCAGGGCTICACGCGCGCCCTGCTG
GGCTICAACCCCGACCAGCTGTCCTGGAACCTGGGCCCCGGCGAGACGCTGACG
                                             274

TCCCCCGAGTGCGTCGCCGTCTACTCCGACAAGGGCCTGGGCTCCGTCTCCCGCA
AGTTCCACCGCCTGTACCGCAACCACCTGATGAAGTCCAAGTTCGCCACGTCCGA
CCGCCCCGTGCTGCTGAACTCCTGGGAGGGCGTCTACTTCGACTACAACCAGTCC
TCCATCGAGACGCTGGCGGAGGAGTCCGCCGCCCTGGGCGTGCACCTGTTCGTCA
TGGACGACGGCTGGTTCGGCGACAAGTACCCCCGCGTGTCCGACAACGCCGGCC
TGGGCGACTGGATGCCCAACCCCGCCCGCTTCCCCGACGGCCTGACGCCCGTCGT
GCAGGACATCACCAACCTGACCGTCAACGGCACCGAGTCCACCAAGCTGCGCTT
CGGCATCTGGGTGGAGCCCGAGATGGTGAACCCCAACTCCACCCTGTACCACGA
GCACCCCGAGTGGGCGCTGCACGCGGGCCCCTACCCCCGCACCGAGCGCCGCAA
CCAGCTGGTCCTGAACCTGGCCCTGCCCGCGGTCCAGGACTTCATCATCGACTTC
ATGACCAACCTGCTGCAGGACACCGGCATCTCCTACGTCAAGTGGGACAACAAC
CGCGGCATCCACGAGACGCCCTCCCCCTCCACGGACCACCAGTACATGCTGGGCC
TGTACCGCGTGTTCGACACGCTGACCACGCGCTTCCCCGACGTCCTGTGGGAGGG
CTGCGCGTCCGGCGGCGGCCGGTTCGACGCCGGCATGCTGCAGTACGTCCCCCAG
ATCTGGACGTCCGACAACACGGACGCGATCGACCGCATCACCATCCAGTTCGGC
ACCTCCCTGGCCTACCCCCCCTCCGCCATGGGCGCCCACCTGTCCGCGGTGCCCA
ACGCCCAGACCGGCCGCACGGTGCCCTTCACCTTCCGCGCCCACGTCGCGATGAT
GGGCGGCTCCTTCGGCCTGGAGCTGGACCCCGCCACCGTGGAGGGCGACGAGAT
CGTGCCCGAGCTGCTGGCGCTGGCCGAGAAGGTGAACCCCATCATCCTGAACGG
CGACCTGTACCGCCTGCGCCTGCCCCAGGACTCCCAGTGGCCCGCGGCCCTGTTC
GTGTCCCAGGACGGCGCCCAGGCCGTCCTGTTCTACTTCCAGGTGCAGCCCAACG
TCAACCACGCCGTCCCCTGGGTCCGCCTGCAGGGCCTGGACCCCAAGGCCGACTA
CACGGTGGACGGCGACCAGACGTACTCCGGCGCGACCCTGATGAACCTGGGCCT
GCAGTACTCCTTCGACACCGAGTACGGCTCCAAGGTGGTGTTCCTGGAGCGCCAG
TAA
SEQ ID NO: 119
Relevant sequence of A. niger AlgC expression cassette
GCGGCCGCGTGGACGAGGGCTACAACCCCGCCTACGGCGCGCGCCCGCTGCGCC
GCGCCATCATGCGCCTGCTGGAGGACGCGCTGGCCGAGCGCATGCTCGCCGGCG
ACGTCAAGGAGGGCGACTCGGTCATCATGGACGTCGATGGCGATGGCGCCATCA
GCGTCCTCAACGGAGACCGCACCCACACCACCACCATCGACTCCTCCCCGGCGG
GCATCTCGTAGACGCGAGAGGGAGGGAGGGAGGATTTTCAGAGGGAGATGAGA
CGAGGACTGGGCCGGGGGCCTTGGGGCGCTGCTGGAGCGTGGTGAGAGCGCGGC
GGACGTGCCTTTTCTTCTTCCGTGCGCGCGCTCTTGGCCATTGATCCCCGATTCGC
GCCCGCATCCCCCCACTGCCCCCATCATCTTGCCTGTTGTCGTGGCACTGACATA
AACCCCCTGCGCTGCGCTGCTCCGCTACTATTGATATAGGTCTCACGCGCCAATC
TTTTTTGCTCCGGGTAACCGTCTGGACGCCAGAATTCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGACAC
TTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCAAC
ACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGAT
GCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGACAT
TATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTACAC
AGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGT
TTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACACTAGTATGATCGGCTCCTCCCACGCGGTCGTCGC
CCTGGGCCTGTTCACCCTGTACGGCCACTCCGCCGCCGCGCCCGCCATCGGCGCC
TCCAACTCCCAGACCATCGTCACGAACGGCACCTCCTTCGCCCTGAACGGCGACA
ACGTGTCCTACCGCTTCCACGTGAACTCCTCCACGGGCGACCTGATCTCCGACCA
CTTCGGCGGCGTGGTGTCCGGCACCATCCCCTCCCCCGTGGAGCCCGCGGTCAAC
GGCTGGGTGGGCATGCCCGGCCGCATCCGCCGCGAGTTCCCCGACCAGGGCCGC
                                            275

GGCGACTTCCGCATCCCCGCGGTGCGCATCCGCGAGTCCGCCGGCTACACCGTCT
CCGACCTGCAGTACGTGTCCCACGAGGTGATCGAGGGCAAGTACGCGCTGCCCG
GCCTGCCCGCCACGTTCGGCGACGCCCAGGACGCCACCACCCTGGTGGTGCACCT
GTACGACAACTACTCCTCCGTCGCGGCCGACCTGTCCTACTCCATCTTCCCCAAG
TACGACGCGATCGTCCGCTCCGTGAACGTGACCAACCAGGGCCCCGGCAACATC
ACCATCGAGGCGCTGGCCTCCATCTCCATCGACTTCCCCTACGAGGACCTGGACA
TGGTGTCCCTGCGCGGCGACTGGGCCCGCGAGGCGAACGTGCAGCGCTCCAAGG
TCCAGTACGGCGTGCAGGGCTTCGGCTCCTCCACCGGCTACTCCTCCCACCTGCA
CAACCCCTTCCTGGCGATCGTCGACCCCGCGACCACCGAGTCCCAGGGCGAGGC
CTGGGGCTTCAACCTGGTCTACACCGGCTCCTTCTCCGCCCAGGTCGAGAAGGGC
TCCCAGGGCTTCACGCGCGCCCTGCTGGGCTTCAACCCCGACCAGCTGTCCTGGA
ACCTGGGCCCCGGCGAGACGCTGACGTCCCCCGAGTGCGTCGCCGTCTACTCCGA
CAAGGGCCTGGGCTCCGTCTCCCGCAAGTTCCACCGCCTGTACCGCAACCACCTG
ATGAAGTCCAAGTTCGCCACGTCCGACCGCCCCGTGCTGCTGAACTCCTGGGAGG
GCGTCTACTTCGACTACAACCAGTCCTCCATCGAGACGCTGGCGGAGGAGTCCGC
CGCCCTGGGCGTGCACCTGTTCGTCATGGACGACGGCTGGTTCGGCGACAAGTAC
CCCCGCGTGTCCGACAACGCCGGCCTGGGCGACTGGATGCCCAACCCCGCCCGCT
TCCCCGACGGCCTGACGCCCGTCGTGCAGGACATCACCAACCTGACCGTCAACG
GCACCGAGTCCACCAAGCTGCGCTTCGGCATCTGGGTGGAGCCCGAGATGGTGA
ACCCCAACTCCACCCTGTACCACGAGCACCCCGAGTGGGCGCTGCACGCGGGCC
CCTACCCCCGCACCGAGCGCCGCAACCAGCTGGTCCTGAACCTGGCCCTGCCCGC
GGTCCAGGACTTCATCATCGACTTCATGACCAACCTGCTGCAGGACACCGGCATC
TCCTACGTCAAGTGGGACAACAACCGCGGCATCCACGAGACGCCCTCCCCCTCCA
CGGACCACCAGTACATGCTGGGCCTGTACCGCGTGTTCGACACGCTGACCACGCG
CTTCCCCGACGTCCTGTGGGAGGGCTGCGCGTCCGGCGGCGGCCGGTTCGACGCC
GGCATGCTGCAGTACGTCCCCCAGATCTGGACGTCCGACAACACGGACGCGATC
GACCGCATCACCATCCAGTTCGGCACCTCCCTGGCCTACCCCCCCTCCGCCATGG
GCGCCCACCTGTCCGCGGTGCCCAACGCCCAGACCGGCCGCACGGTGCCCTTCAC
CTTCCGCGCCCACGTCGCGATGATGGGCGGCTCCTTCGGCCTGGAGCTGGACCCC
GCCACCGTGGAGGGCGACGAGATCGTGCCCGAGCTGCTGGCGCTGGCCGAGAAG
GTGAACCCCATCATCCTGAACGGCGACCTGTACCGCCTGCGCCTGCCCCAGGACT
CCCAGTGGCCCGCGGCCCTGTTCGTGTCCCAGGACGGCGCCCAGGCCGTCCTGTT
CTACTTCCAGGTGCAGCCCAACGTCAACCACGCCGTCCCCTGGGTCCGCCTGCAG
GGCCTGGACCCCAAGGCCGACTACACGGTGGACGGCGACCAGACGTACTCCGGC
GCGACCCTGATGAACCTGGGCCTGCAGTACTCCTTCGACACCGAGTACGGCTCCA
AGGTGGTGTTCCTGGAGCGCCAGTAACAATTGAAGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGT
ATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTG
CCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATC
TTGTGTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCAC
CCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCT
ACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCAC
AGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGC
ACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTT
GAGCTCAGAATAGTATCGGGTGATGCGAAGTCAGAACCAGGCAGGGCCTGTCGC
CTGAGGTGGCAACGATGGGAAGCAATCAATCTGGGTACAGTCGTCCGCACGATC
CCGTGATCTCCCCCACCGACACCTATCCCCGCCCATCCCGGCCCACCCTTTCAGTC
CCCTCAGCATGCATTGTGCACCGCGACAAAGCATGTCTGCTCGTGCACTGGTTCA
GGCCACGGCGCACCGAGTCCTCGCCCTTCGCAGAGTGATCACCCTCCCCGGAACC
AGCCACGCTCGCTGCTGCGGGCCGATCAGCCGCGCGCACTCCCTGCAACTAGGG
ACAACTCAGGCAACCACGCGCCTCACAAGCATGGCCGCCGTGGCATCCAACCCG
                            276

CTCGTGACGGTGGGTGCGCAAGTGCCAGGGGCCTCGTCGTCACGGCGTGCATCCT
CGAGGGATGCGATCCGGCAACTATATGTCGTTTATCTCCCCACCAATCACAGGAT
GAGCCCCTGTCTAGA
SEQ ID NO: 120
C. tetragonobola a-galactosidase amino acid sequence
MATHYSIIGGMIIVVLLMIIGSEGGRLLEKKNRTSAEAEHYNVRRYLAENGLGQTPPM
GWNSWNHFGCDINENVVRETADAMVSTGLAALGYQYINLDDCWAELNRDSEGNM
VPNAAAFPSGIKALADYVHSKGLKLGVYSDAGNQTCSKRMPGSLGHEEQDAKTFAS
WGVDYLKYDNCENLGISVKERYPPMGKALLSSGRPIFFSMCEWGWEDPQIWAKSIG
NSWRTTGDIEDNWNSMTSIADSNDKWASYAGPGGWNDPDMLEVGNGGMTTEEYR
SHFSIWALAKAPLLVGCDIRAMDDTTHELISNAEVIA VNQDKLGVQGKKVKSTNDLE
VWAGPLSDNKVAVILWNRSSSRATVTASWSDIGLQQGTTVDARDLWEHSTQSLVSG
EISAEIDSHACKMYVLTPRS
SEQ ID NO: 121
Codon-optimized C. tetragonobola a-galactosidase sequence
ATGGCCACCCACTACTCCATCATCGGCGGCATGATCATCGTCGTCCTGCTGATGA
TCATCGGCTCCGAGGGCGGCCGGCTGCTGGAGAAGAAGAACCGCACCTCCGCCG
AGGCGGAGCACTACAACGTGCGCCGCTACCTGGCCGAGAACGGCCTGGGCCAGA
CCCCCCCCATGGGCTGGAACTCCTGGAACCACTTCGGCTGCGACATCAACGAGA
ACGTCGTCCGCGAGACGGCGGACGCCATGGTGTCCACCGGCCTGGCCGCCCTGG
GCTACCAGTACATCAACCTGGACGACTGCTGGGCGGAGCTGAACCGCGACTCCG
AGGGCAACATGGTGCCCAACGCCGCCGCGTTCCCCTCCGGCATCAAGGCGCTGG
CGGACTACGTCCACTCCAAGGGCCTGAAGCTGGGCGTCTACTCCGACGCGGGCA
ACCAGACCTGCTCCAAGCGCATGCCCGGCTCCCTGGGCCACGAGGAGCAGGACG
CGAAGACGTTCGCCTCCTGGGGCGTCGACTACCTGAAGTACGACAACTGCGAGA
ACCTGGGCATCTCCGTGAAGGAGCGCTACCCCCCCATGGGCAAGGCGCTGCTGTC
CTCCGGCCGCCCCATCTTCTTCTCCATGTGCGAGTGGGGCTGGGAGGACCCCCAG
ATCTGGGCCAAGTCCATCGGCAACTCCTGGCGCACCACCGGCGACATCGAGGAC
AACTGGAACTCCATGACCTCCATCGCCGACTCCAACGACAAGTGGGCCTCCTACG
CCGGCCCCGGCGGCTGGAACGACCCCGACATGCTGGAGGTCGGCAACGGCGGCA
TGACGACGGAGGAGTACCGCTCCCACTTCTCCATCTGGGCCCTGGCCAAGGCGCC
CCTGCTGGTGGGCTGCGACATCCGCGCGATGGACGACACGACGCACGAGCTGAT
CTCCAACGCCGAGGTGATCGCGGTGAACCAGGACAAGCTGGGCGTGCAGGGCAA
GAAGGTCAAGTCCACGAACGACCTGGAGGTCTGGGCCGGCCCCCTGTCCGACAA
CAAGGTGGCGGTGATCCTGTGGAACCGCTCCTCCTCCCGCGCCACCGTCACCGCG
TCCTGGTCCGACATCGGCCTGCAGCAGGGCACCACCGTCGACGCGCGCGACCTGT
GGGAGCACTCCACGCAGTCCCTGGTGTCCGGCGAGATCTCCGCCGAGATCGACTC
CCACGCCTGCAAGATGTACGTCCTGACGCCCCGCTCCTAA
SEQ ID NO: 122
Relevant sequence of C. tetragonobola a-galactosidase expression cassette
GCGGCCGCGTGGACGAGGGCTACAACCCCGCCTACGGCGCGCGCCCGCTGCGCC
GCGCCATCATGCGCCTGCTGGAGGACGCGCTGGCCGAGCGCATGCTCGCCGGCG
ACGTCAAGGAGGGCGACTCGGTCATCATGGACGTCGATGGCGATGGCGCCATCA
GCGTCCTCAACGGAGACCGCACCCACACCACCACCATCGACTCCTCCCCGGCGG
                                            277

GCATCTCGTAGACGCGAGAGGGAGGGAGGGAGGATTTTCAGAGGGAGATGAGA
CGAGGACTGGGCCGGGGGCCTTGGGGCGCTGCTGGAGCGTGGTGAGAGCGCGGC
GGACGTGCCTTTTCTTCTTCCGTGCGCGCGCTCTTGGCCATTGATCCCCGATTCGC
GCCCGCATCCCCCCACTGCCCCCATCATCTTGCCTGTTGTCGTGGCACTGACATA
AACCCCCTGCGCTGCGCTGCTCCGCTACTATTGATATAGGTCTCACGCGCCAATC
TTTTTTGCTCCGGGTAACCGTCTGGACGCCAGAATTCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGACAC
TTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCAAC
ACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGAT
GCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGACAT
TATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTACAC
AGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGT
TTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACACTAGTATGGCCACCCACTACTCCATCATCGGCGG
CATGATCATCGTCGTCCTGCTGATGATCATCGGCTCCGAGGGCGGCCGGCTGCTG
GAGAAGAAGAACCGCACCTCCGCCGAGGCGGAGCACTACAACGTGCGCCGCTAC
CTGGCCGAGAACGGCCTGGGCCAGACCCCCCCCATGGGCTGGAACTCCTGGAAC
CACTTCGGCTGCGACATCAACGAGAACGTCGTCCGCGAGACGGCGGACGCCATG
GTGTCCACCGGCCTGGCCGCCCTGGGCTACCAGTACATCAACCTGGACGACTGCT
GGGCGGAGCTGAACCGCGACTCCGAGGGCAACATGGTGCCCAACGCCGCCGCGT
TCCCCTCCGGCATCAAGGCGCTGGCGGACTACGTCCACTCCAAGGGCCTGAAGCT
GGGCGTCTACTCCGACGCGGGCAACCAGACCTGCTCCAAGCGCATGCCCGGCTC
CCTGGGCCACGAGGAGCAGGACGCGAAGACGTTCGCCTCCTGGGGCGTCGACTA
CCTGAAGTACGACAACTGCGAGAACCTGGGCATCTCCGTGAAGGAGCGCTACCC
CCCCATGGGCAAGGCGCTGCTGTCCTCCGGCCGCCCCATCTTCTTCTCCATGTGC
GAGTGGGGCTGGGAGGACCCCCAGATCTGGGCCAAGTCCATCGGCAACTCCTGG
CGCACCACCGGCGACATCGAGGACAACTGGAACTCCATGACCTCCATCGCCGAC
TCCAACGACAAGTGGGCCTCCTACGCCGGCCCCGGCGGCTGGAACGACCCCGAC
ATGCTGGAGGTCGGCAACGGCGGCATGACGACGGAGGAGTACCGCTCCCACTTC
TCCATCTGGGCCCTGGCCAAGGCGCCCCTGCTGGTGGGCTGCGACATCCGCGCGA
TGGACGACACGACGCACGAGCTGATCTCCAACGCCGAGGTGATCGCGGTGAACC
AGGACAAGCTGGGCGTGCAGGGCAAGAAGGTCAAGTCCACGAACGACCTGGAG
GTCTGGGCCGGCCCCCTGTCCGACAACAAGGTGGCGGTGATCCTGTGGAACCGCT
CCTCCTCCCGCGCCACCGTCACCGCGTCCTGGTCCGACATCGGCCTGCAGCAGGG
CACCACCGTCGACGCGCGCGACCTGTGGGAGCACTCCACGCAGTCCCTGGTGTCC
GGCGAGATCTCCGCCGAGATCGACTCCCACGCCTGCAAGATGTACGTCCTGACGC
CCCGCTCCTAACAATTGAAGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGG
ACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAAT
ATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCT
TTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTT
CCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTAT
CCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGC
TCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATG
CACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTTGAGCTCAGAATAGTA
TCGGGTGATGCGAAGTCAGAACCAGGCAGGGCCTGTCGCCTGAGGTGGCAACGA
TGGGAAGCAATCAATCTGGGTACAGTCGTCCGCACGATCCCGTGATCTCCCCCAC
CGACACCTATCCCCGCCCATCCCGGCCCACCCTTTCAGTCCCCTCAGCATGCATT
GTGCACCGCGACAAAGCATGTCTGCTCGTGCACTGGTTCAGGCCACGGCGCACC
GAGTCCTCGCCCTTCGCAGAGTGATCACCCTCCCCGGAACCAGCCACGCTCGCTG
CTGCGGGCCGATCAGCCGCGCGCACTCCCTGCAACTAGGGACAACTCAGGCAAC
CACGCGCCTCACAAGCATGGCCGCCGTGGCATCCAACCCGCTCGTGACGGTGGG
TGCGCAAGTGCCAGGGGCCTCGTCGTCACGGCGTGCATCCTCGAGGGATGCGAT
                           278

CCGGCAACTATATGTCGT1TATCTCCCCACCAATCACAGGATGAGCCCCTGTCTA
GA
SEQ ID NO: 123
5' primer C. vulgaris 3'UTR:downstream Clp sequence
5'-ACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGA-3'
SEQ ID NO: 124
3' primer C. vulgaris 3'UTR:downstream Clp sequence
5'-TCCAGGTCC1TTTCGCACT-3'
SEQ ID NO: 125
Coccomyxa C-169 THIC amino acid sequence
M1TNLAKLPLGGLSSRSSIAGAPLRVNSHSRERHLGAKTTAIAAPERLDYLDNAEEA
RLQQTDAFAELKALSSRQSVNRPQKGELSFRQSPTFQDCFPGSEKCYREVEHDGKTL
KVPFRRVHLQDDNGHFDLYDTSGPQGVNPREGLPKIRSSWVEPREARGDKVQTQQY
YAKQGIITEEMAFCAARERMDPEFIRSEVARGRAIIPANKRHLELEPTVVGRNFLVKV
NANIGNSAVSSSIEEEVEKLQWSTIWGADTAMDLSTGNNIHETREWVMRNSPVPVGT
VPIYQCLEKAGGIVENITWELFRETLIEQAEQGVDYFTIHAGVLLRYIPLTANRVTGIV
SRGGSIHAKLCLLDHTENFAYMHWDEILDICAQYDITLSIGDGLRPGCIADANDAAQF
AELKTQGELTRRAWAKDVQVMNEGPGHVPLHKIPENMEKQLDWCSEAPFYTLGPL
ATDIAPAYDHITSAIGAATIGALGTALLCYVTPKEHLGLPDRDDVKAGVIAYKIAAHA
ADLAKGHPYAQEWDNALSKARFEFRWYDQFHLSLDPVTARLFHDATLPQEPAKTA
HFCSMCGPKFCSMQITQDLREYAKNHQMEEDEAIQTGMAEMSEQFKSIGAEVYLDE
AVLEHA
SEQ ID NO: 126
Coccomyxa C-169 THIC native transit peptide amino acid sequence
M1TNLAKLPLGGLSSRSSIAGAPLRVNSHSRERHLGAKTT
SEQ ID NO: 127
Relevant sequence of Coccomyxa C-169 THIC expression cassette
GCTCTTCGCCGCCGCCACTCCTGCTCGAGCGCGCCCGCGCGTGCGCCGCCAGCGC
C1TGGCC1TTTCGCCGCGCTCGTGCGCGTCGCTGATGTCCATCACCAGGTCCATG
AGGTCTGCCTTGCGCCGGCTGAGCCACTGCTTCGTCCGGGCGGCCAAGAGGAGC
ATGAGGGAGGACTCCTGGTCCAGGGTCCTGACGTGGTCGCGGCTCTGGGAGCGG
GCCAGCATCATCTGGCTCTGCCGCACCGAGGCCGCCTCCAACTGGTCCTCCAGCA
GCCGCAGTCGCCGCCGACCCTGGCAGAGGAAGACAGGTGAGGGGGGTATGAATT
GTACAGAACAACCACGAGCC1TGTCTAGGCAGAATCCCTACCAGTCATGGCT1TA
CCTGGATGACGGCCTGCGAACAGCTGTCCAGCGACCCTCGCTGCCGCCGCTTCTC
CCGCACGCTTCTTTCCAGCACCGTGATGGCGCGAGCCAGCGCCGCACGCTGGCGC
TGCGCTTCGCCGATCTGAGGACAGTCGGGGAACTCTGATCAGTCTAAACCCCCTT
GCGCG1TAGTGTTGCCATCCT1TGCAGACCGGTGAGAGCCGACTTG1TGTGCGCC
ACCCCCCACACCACCTCCTCCCAGACCAA1TCTGTCACC1TT1TGGCGAAGGCAT
CGGCCTCGGCCTGCAGAGAGGACAGCAGTGCCCAGCCGCTGGGGG1TGGCGGAT
                                          279

GCACGCTCAGGTACCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGG
GCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCC
GAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGT
TTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCAT
ATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCG
CACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACGG
CGCGCCATGCTGCTGCAGGCCTTCCTGTTCCTGCTGGCCGGCTTCGCCGCCAAGA
TCAGCGCCTCCATGACGAACGAGACGTCCGACCGCCCCCTGGTGCACTTCACCCC
CAACAAGGGCTGGATGAACGACCCCAACGGCCTGTGGTACGACGAGAAGGACGC
CAAGTGGCACCTGTACTTCCAGTACAACCCGAACGACACCGTCTGGGGGACGCC
CTTGTTCTGGGGCCACGCCACGTCCGACGACCTGACCAACTGGGAGGACCAGCC
CATCGCCATCGCCCCGAAGCGCAACGACTCCGGCGCCTTCTCCGGCTCCATGGTG
GTGGACTACAACAACACCTCCGGCTTCTTCAACGACACCATCGACCCGCGCCAGC
GCTGCGTGGCCATCTGGACCTACAACACCCCGGAGTCCGAGGAGCAGTACATCT
CCTACAGCCTGGACGGCGGCTACACCTTCACCGAGTACCAGAAGAACCCCGTGC
TGGCCGCCAACTCCACCCAGTTCCGCGACCCGAAGGTCTTCTGGTACGAGCCCTC
CCAGAAGTGGATCATGACCGCGGCCAAGTCCCAGGACTACAAGATCGAGATCTA
CTCCTCCGACGACCTGAAGTCCTGGAAGCTGGAGTCCGCGTTCGCCAACGAGGG
CTTCCTCGGCTACCAGTACGAGTGCCCCGGCCTGATCGAGGTCCCCACCGAGCAG
GACCCCAGCAAGTCCTACTGGGTGATGTTCATCTCCATCAACCCCGGCGCCCCGG
CCGGCGGCTCCTTCAACCAGTACTTCGTCGGCAGCTTCAACGGCACCCACTTCGA
GGCCTTCGACAACCAGTCCCGCGTGGTGGACTTCGGCAAGGACTACTACGCCCTG
CAGACCTTCTTCAACACCGACCCGACCTACGGGAGCGCCCTGGGCATCGCGTGG
GCCTCCAACTGGGAGTACTCCGCCTTCGTGCCCACCAACCCCTGGCGCTCCTCCA
TGTCCCTCGTGCGCAAGTTCTCCCTCAACACCGAGTACCAGGCCAACCCGGAGAC
GGAGCTGATCAACCTGAAGGCCGAGCCGATCCTGAACATCAGCAACGCCGGCCC
CTGGAGCCGGTTCGCCACCAACACCACGTTGACGAAGGCCAACAGCTACAACGT
CGACCTGTCCAACAGCACCGGCACCCTGGAGTTCGAGCTGGTGTACGCCGTCAAC
ACCACCCAGACGATCTCCAAGTCCGTGTTCGCGGACCTCTCCCTCTGGTTCAAGG
GCCTGGAGGACCCCGAGGAGTACCTCCGCATGGGCTTCGAGGTGTCCGCGTCCTC
CTTCTTCCTGGACCGCGGGAACAGCAAGGTGAAGTTCGTGAAGGAGAACCCCTA
CTTCACCAACCGCATGAGCGTGAACAACCAGCCCTTCAAGAGCGAGAACGACCT
GTCCTACTACAAGGTGTACGGCTTGCTGGACCAGAACATCCTGGAGCTGTACTTC
AACGACGGCGACGTCGTGTCCACCAACACCTACTTCATGACCACCGGGAACGCC
CTGGGCTCCGTGAACATGACGACGGGGGTGGACAACCTGTTCTACATCGACAAG
TTCCAGGTGCGCGAGGTCAAGTGACAATTGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCG
ACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTT
GACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGT
GTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCC
AGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGC
TGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCC
TTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGC
AATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAGGATCCCGCGT
CTCGAACAGAGCGCGCAGAGGAACGCTGAAGGTCTCGCCTCTGTCGCACCTCAG
CGCGGCATACACCACAATAACCACCTGACGAATGCGCTTGGTTCTTCGTCCATTA
GCGAAGCGTCCGGTTCACACACGTGCCACGTTGGCGAGGTGGCAGGTGACAATG
ATCGGTGGAGCTGATGGTCGAAACGTTCACAGCCTAGGGATATCGAATTCCTTTC
TTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCG
GCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGC
ATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCC
                            280

GA1TGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCA
CTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCG
CCTCTTCCTCTTCGT1TCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACACTAGTATGACCACCAACCT
GGCTAAGCTGCCTCTCGGCGGCCTCTCTTCTCGGTCGTCCATCGCCGGGGCTCCTC
TGCGCGTGAACAGCCACAGCCGCGAGCGCCACCTGGGCGCCAAGACCACCGCGA
TCGCCGCTCCCGAGCGGCTGGACTACCTCGACAACGCGGAGGAGGCGCGGCTGC
AGCAGACGGACGCCTTCGCCGAGCTGAAGGCGCTGTCGAGCCGCCAGTCCGTGA
ACCGGCCCCAAAAGGGCGAGCTGTCG1TCCGGCAGTCGCCGACCT1TCAGGACT
GC1TCCCTGGCTCGGAGAAGTGCTACCGCGAGGTGGAGCACGATGGCAAGACGC
TCAAGGTGCCTTTTCGCCGGGTGCACCTGCAGGACGACAACGGCCAT1TCGACCT
GTACGACACCTCTGGCCCCCAGGGCGTGAACCCCCGCGAGGGTCTGCCCAAGAT
CCGCTCCTCCTGGGTGGAGCCGCGCGAGGCGCGGGGCGACAAGGTGCAAACGCA
GCAGTACTACGCCAAGCAAGGCATCATCACCGAGGAGATGGCC1TCTGCGCTGC
GCGCGAGCGCATGGACCCCGAGTTCATCCGGTCTGAGGTGGCCCGGGGTCGGGC
CATCATCCCTGCGAACAAGCGCCATCTGGAGCTGGAGCCGACCGTCGTGGGCCG
CAAC1TTCTGGTCAAGGTGAACGCCAACATCGGCAACTCTGCGGTCAGCTCGAGC
ATCGAGGAGGAGGTGGAGAAGCTGCAGTGGAGCACCATCTGGGGTGCCGACACG
GCCATGGACCTGAGCACCGGCAACAACATCCACGAGACGCGCGAGTGGGTGATG
CGCAACAGCCCGGTCCCTGTGGGTACGGTCCCTATCTACCAGTGCCTGGAGAAGG
CGGGCGGCATCGTGGAGAACATCACCTGGGAGCTGTTCCGGGAGACGCTGATCG
AGCAGGCCGAGCAGGGCGTCGACTACTTTACCATCCACGCGGGGGTCCTGCTCC
GCTACATCCCCCTGACGGCGAACCGCGTCACCGGCATCGTCAGCCGCGGCGGCTC
TATCCATGCCAAGCTCTGCCTGCTGGACCACACCGAGAACTTCGCCTACATGCAC
TGGGACGAGATCCTGGACATCTGCGCCCAGTACGACATCACCCTGTCGATCGGCG
ACGGCCTGCGCCCCGGCTGCATCGCGGACGCCAACGACGCTGCCCAGT1TGCTGA
GCTGAAGACCCAGGGCGAGCTGACCCGCCGCGCCTGGGCGAAGGACGTGCAGGT
GATGAACGAGGGTCCCGGCCATGTGCCGCTGCACAAGATCCCCGAGAACATGGA
GAAGCAGCTGGACTGGTGCAGCGAGGCGCCCTTCTACACGCTCGGCCCCCTGGC
GACGGACATCGCGCCTGCGTACGACCACATCACCTCCGCGATCGGCGCCGCCAC
GATCGGCGCGCTGGGGACCGCGCTGCTGTGTTACGTGACCCCGAAGGAGCACCT
GGGCCTCCCCGATCGCGACGACGTGAAGGCCGGGGTGATCGCCTACAAGATCGC
GGCGCACGCGGCTGACCTGGCGAAGGGTCACCCCTACGCTCAGGAGTGGGATAA
CGCCCTCTCTAAGGCGCGC1TCGAGTTCCGGTGGTACGACCAGTTCCACCTGTCG
CTGGACCCCGTCACCGCCCGCCTG1TCCATGACGCGACCCTGCCGCAGGAGCCCG
CCAAGACCGCCCAC1TCTGCTCCATGTGCGGCCCCAAGTTCTGCTCCATGCAGAT
CACCCAGGACCTCCGCGAGTACGCCAAGAACCATCAAATGGAGGAGGACGAGGC
GATCCAAACCGGCATGGCCGAGATGTCCGAGCAG1TCAAGAGCATCGGCGCGGA
GGTCTACCTCGACGAGGCGGTGCTGGAGCACGCGTAAGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGAT
AGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACAC1TG
CTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGC1TTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTG1TTG
ATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCT1TTGCGAG1TGCTAGCTGC1TGTGCTATTTGCGAATAC
CACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAAC1TA
TCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCG
CACAGCC1TGGT1TGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACC
AGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAA
GC1TGAGCTC1TGTT1TCCAGAAGGAGTTGCTCCTTGAGCCTTTCATTCTCAGCCT
CGATAACCTCCAAAGCCGCTCTAATTGTGGAGGGGG1TCGAAT1TAAAAGC1TGG
AATGTTGGTTCGTGCGTCTGGAACAAGCCCAGACTTGTTGCTCACTGGGAAAAGG
ACCATCAGCTCCAAAAAACTTGCCGCTCAAACCGCGTACCTCTGCTTTCGCGCAA
TCTGCCCTGTTGAAATCGCCACCACATTCATATTGTGACGCTTGAGCAGTCTGTA
                            281

A1TGCCTCAGAATGTGGAATCATCTGCCCCCTGTGCGAGCCCATGCCAGGCATGT
CGCGGGCGAGGACACCCGCCACTCGTACAGCAGACCATTATGCTACCTCACAAT
AG1TCATAACAGTGACCATATTTCTCGAAGCTCCCCAACGAGCACCTCCATGCTC
TGAGTGGCCACCCCCCGGCCCTGGTGC1TGCGGAGGGCAGGTCAACCGGCATGG
GGCTACCGAAATCCCCGACCGGATCCCACCACCCCCGCGATGGGAAGAATCTCT
CCCCGGGATGTGGGCCCACCACCAGCACAACCTGCTGGCCCAGGCGAGCGTCAA
ACCATACCACACAAATATCCTTGGCATCGGCCCTGAA1TCCTTCTGCCGCTCTGCT
ACCCGGTGCTTCTGTCCGAAGCAGGGGTTGCTAGGGATCGCTCCGAGTCCGCAAA
CCCTTGTCGCGTGGCGGGGC1TGTTCGAGCTGAAGAGC
SEQ ID NO: 128
Codon-optimized Coccomyxa C-169 THIC sequence
ATGACCACCAACCTGGCTAAGCTGCCTCTCGGCGGCCTCTCTTCTCGGTCGTCCA
TCGCCGGGGCTCCTCTGCGCGTGAACAGCCACAGCCGCGAGCGCCACCTGGGCG
CCAAGACCACCGCGATCGCCGCTCCCGAGCGGCTGGACTACCTCGACAACGCGG
AGGAGGCGCGGCTGCAGCAGACGGACGCCTTCGCCGAGCTGAAGGCGCTGTCGA
GCCGCCAGTCCGTGAACCGGCCCCAAAAGGGCGAGCTGTCG1TCCGGCAGTCGC
CGACCTTTCAGGACTGCTTCCCTGGCTCGGAGAAGTGCTACCGCGAGGTGGAGCA
CGATGGCAAGACGCTCAAGGTGCCT1TTCGCCGGGTGCACCTGCAGGACGACAA
CGGCCATTTCGACCTGTACGACACCTCTGGCCCCCAGGGCGTGAACCCCCGCGAG
GGTCTGCCCAAGATCCGCTCCTCCTGGGTGGAGCCGCGCGAGGCGCGGGGCGAC
AAGGTGCAAACGCAGCAGTACTACGCCAAGCAAGGCATCATCACCGAGGAGATG
GCC1TCTGCGCTGCGCGCGAGCGCATGGACCCCGAG1TCATCCGGTCTGAGGTGG
CCCGGGGTCGGGCCATCATCCCTGCGAACAAGCGCCATCTGGAGCTGGAGCCGA
CCGTCGTGGGCCGCAACTTTCTGGTCAAGGTGAACGCCAACATCGGCAACTCTGC
GGTCAGCTCGAGCATCGAGGAGGAGGTGGAGAAGCTGCAGTGGAGCACCATCTG
GGGTGCCGACACGGCCATGGACCTGAGCACCGGCAACAACATCCACGAGACGCG
CGAGTGGGTGATGCGCAACAGCCCGGTCCCTGTGGGTACGGTCCCTATCTACCAG
TGCCTGGAGAAGGCGGGCGGCATCGTGGAGAACATCACCTGGGAGCTGTTCCGG
GAGACGCTGATCGAGCAGGCCGAGCAGGGCGTCGACTACTTTACCATCCACGCG
GGGGTCCTGCTCCGCTACATCCCCCTGACGGCGAACCGCGTCACCGGCATCGTCA
GCCGCGGCGGCTCTATCCATGCCAAGCTCTGCCTGCTGGACCACACCGAGAAC1T
CGCCTACATGCACTGGGACGAGATCCTGGACATCTGCGCCCAGTACGACATCACC
CTGTCGATCGGCGACGGCCTGCGCCCCGGCTGCATCGCGGACGCCAACGACGCT
GCCCAGTTTGCTGAGCTGAAGACCCAGGGCGAGCTGACCCGCCGCGCCTGGGCG
AAGGACGTGCAGGTGATGAACGAGGGTCCCGGCCATGTGCCGCTGCACAAGATC
CCCGAGAACATGGAGAAGCAGCTGGACTGGTGCAGCGAGGCGCCC1TCTACACG
CTCGGCCCCCTGGCGACGGACATCGCGCCTGCGTACGACCACATCACCTCCGCGA
TCGGCGCCGCCACGATCGGCGCGCTGGGGACCGCGCTGCTGTG1TACGTGACCCC
GAAGGAGCACCTGGGCCTCCCCGATCGCGACGACGTGAAGGCCGGGGTGATCGC
CTACAAGATCGCGGCGCACGCGGCTGACCTGGCGAAGGGTCACCCCTACGCTCA
GGAGTGGGATAACGCCCTCTCTAAGGCGCGCTTCGAG1TCCGGTGGTACGACCA
G1TCCACCTGTCGCTGGACCCCGTCACCGCCCGCCTGTTCCATGACGCGACCCTG
CCGCAGGAGCCCGCCAAGACCGCCCAC1TCTGCTCCATGTGCGGCCCCAAGTTCT
GCTCCATGCAGATCACCCAGGACCTCCGCGAGTACGCCAAGAACCATCAAATGG
AGGAGGACGAGGCGATCCAAACCGGCATGGCCGAGATGTCCGAGCAG1TCAAGA
GCATCGGCGCGGAGGTCTACCTCGACGAGGCGGTGCTGGAGCACGCGTAA
SEQ ID NO: 129
                                       282

Codon-optimized S. cerevisiae suc2 sequence
GGCGCGCCATGCTGCTGCAGGCCTTCCTGTTCCTGCTGGCCGGCTTCGCCGCCAA
GATCAGCGCCTCCATGACGAACGAGACGTCCGACCGCCCCCTGGTGCACTTCACC
CCCAACAAGGGCTGGATGAACGACCCCAACGGCCTGTGGTACGACGAGAAGGAC
GCCAAGTGGCACCTGTACTTCCAGTACAACCCGAACGACACCGTCTGGGGGACG
CCCTTGTTCTGGGGCCACGCCACGTCCGACGACCTGACCAACTGGGAGGACCAG
CCCATCGCCATCGCCCCGAAGCGCAACGACTCCGGCGCCTTCTCCGGCTCCATGG
TGGTGGACTACAACAACACCTCCGGCTTCTTCAACGACACCATCGACCCGCGCCA
GCGCTGCGTGGCCATCTGGACCTACAACACCCCGGAGTCCGAGGAGCAGTACAT
CTCCTACAGCCTGGACGGCGGCTACACCTTCACCGAGTACCAGAAGAACCCCGT
GCTGGCCGCCAACTCCACCCAGTTCCGCGACCCGAAGGTCTTCTGGTACGAGCCC
TCCCAGAAGTGGATCATGACCGCGGCCAAGTCCCAGGACTACAAGATCGAGATC
TACTCCTCCGACGACCTGAAGTCCTGGAAGCTGGAGTCCGCGTTCGCCAACGAGG
GCTTCCTCGGCTACCAGTACGAGTGCCCCGGCCTGATCGAGGTCCCCACCGAGCA
GGACCCCAGCAAGTCCTACTGGGTGATGTTCATCTCCATCAACCCCGGCGCCCCG
GCCGGCGGCTCCTTCAACCAGTACTTCGTCGGCAGCTTCAACGGCACCCACTTCG
AGGCCTTCGACAACCAGTCCCGCGTGGTGGACTTCGGCAAGGACTACTACGCCCT
GCAGACCTTCTTCAACACCGACCCGACCTACGGGAGCGCCCTGGGCATCGCGTG
GGCCTCCAACTGGGAGTACTCCGCCTTCGTGCCCACCAACCCCTGGCGCTCCTCC
ATGTCCCTCGTGCGCAAGTTCTCCCTCAACACCGAGTACCAGGCCAACCCGGAGA
CGGAGCTGATCAACCTGAAGGCCGAGCCGATCCTGAACATCAGCAACGCCGGCC
CCTGGAGCCGGTTCGCCACCAACACCACGTTGACGAAGGCCAACAGCTACAACG
TCGACCTGTCCAACAGCACCGGCACCCTGGAGTTCGAGCTGGTGTACGCCGTCAA
CACCACCCAGACGATCTCCAAGTCCGTGTTCGCGGACCTCTCCCTCTGGTTCAAG
GGCCTGGAGGACCCCGAGGAGTACCTCCGCATGGGCTTCGAGGTGTCCGCGTCCT
CCTTCTTCCTGGACCGCGGGAACAGCAAGGTGAAGTTCGTGAAGGAGAACCCCT
ACTTCACCAACCGCATGAGCGTGAACAACCAGCCCTTCAAGAGCGAGAACGACC
TGTCCTACTACAAGGTGTACGGCTTGCTGGACCAGAACATCCTGGAGCTGTACTT
CAACGACGGCGACGTCGTGTCCACCAACACCTACTTCATGACCACCGGGAACGC
CCTGGGCTCCGTGAACATGACGACGGGGGTGGACAACCTGTTCTACATCGACAA
GTTCCAGGTGCGCGAGGTCAAGTGACAATTG
SEQ ID NO: 130
Relevant sequence of Coccomyxa C-169 THIC expression construct with C. protothecoides
transit peptide
GCGGCCGCGTGGACGAGGGCTACAACCCCGCCTACGGCGCGCGCCCGCTGCGCC
GCGCCATCATGCGCCTGCTGGAGGACGCGCTGGCCGAGCGCATGCTCGCCGGCG
ACGTCAAGGAGGGCGACTCGGTCATCATGGACGTCGATGGCGATGGCGCCATCA
GCGTCCTCAACGGAGACCGCACCCACACCACCACCATCGACTCCTCCCCGGCGG
GCATCTCGTAGACGCGAGAGGGAGGGAGGGAGGATTTTCAGAGGGAGATGAGA
CGAGGACTGGGCCGGGGGCCTTGGGGCGCTGCTGGAGCGTGGTGAGAGCGCGGC
GGACGTGCCTTTTCTTCTTCCGTGCGCGCGCTCTTGGCCATTGATCCCCGATTCGC
GCCCGCATCCCCCCACTGCCCCCATCATCTTGCCTGTTGTCGTGGCACTGACATA
AACCCCCTGCGCTGCGCTGCTCCGCTACTATTGATATAGGTCTCACGCGCCAATC
TTTTTTGCTCCGGGTAACCGTCTGGACGCCAGAATTCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGACAC
TTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCAAC
ACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGAT
GCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGACAT
                                           283

TATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTACAC
AGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGT
TTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACACTAGTATGGCCACCGCATCCACTTTCTCGGCGTT
CAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACCTGCGTCGCTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCCC
AGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCGCGGGCGCGCCGCGATCGCCGCTCCCGAGCGGCT
GGACTACCTCGACAACGCGGAGGAGGCGCGGCTGCAGCAGACGGACGCCTTCGC
CGAGCTGAAGGCGCTGTCGAGCCGCCAGTCCGTGAACCGGCCCCAAAAGGGCGA
GCTGTCGTTCCGGCAGTCGCCGACCTTTCAGGACTGCTTCCCTGGCTCGGAGAAG
TGCTACCGCGAGGTGGAGCACGATGGCAAGACGCTCAAGGTGCCTTTTCGCCGG
GTGCACCTGCAGGACGACAACGGCCATTTCGACCTGTACGACACCTCTGGCCCCC
AGGGCGTGAACCCCCGCGAGGGTCTGCCCAAGATCCGCTCCTCCTGGGTGGAGC
CGCGCGAGGCGCGGGGCGACAAGGTGCAAACGCAGCAGTACTACGCCAAGCAA
GGCATCATCACCGAGGAGATGGCCTTCTGCGCTGCGCGCGAGCGCATGGACCCC
GAGTTCATCCGGTCTGAGGTGGCCCGGGGTCGGGCCATCATCCCTGCGAACAAG
CGCCATCTGGAGCTGGAGCCGACCGTCGTGGGCCGCAACTTTCTGGTCAAGGTGA
ACGCCAACATCGGCAACTCTGCGGTCAGCTCGAGCATCGAGGAGGAGGTGGAGA
AGCTGCAGTGGAGCACCATCTGGGGTGCCGACACGGCCATGGACCTGAGCACCG
GCAACAACATCCACGAGACGCGCGAGTGGGTGATGCGCAACAGCCCGGTCCCTG
TGGGTACGGTCCCTATCTACCAGTGCCTGGAGAAGGCGGGCGGCATCGTGGAGA
ACATCACCTGGGAGCTGTTCCGGGAGACGCTGATCGAGCAGGCCGAGCAGGGCG
TCGACTACTTTACCATCCACGCGGGGGTCCTGCTCCGCTACATCCCCCTGACGGC
GAACCGCGTCACCGGCATCGTCAGCCGCGGCGGCTCTATCCATGCCAAGCTCTGC
CTGCTGGACCACACCGAGAACTTCGCCTACATGCACTGGGACGAGATCCTGGAC
ATCTGCGCCCAGTACGACATCACCCTGTCGATCGGCGACGGCCTGCGCCCCGGCT
GCATCGCGGACGCCAACGACGCTGCCCAGTTTGCTGAGCTGAAGACCCAGGGCG
AGCTGACCCGCCGCGCCTGGGCGAAGGACGTGCAGGTGATGAACGAGGGTCCCG
GCCATGTGCCGCTGCACAAGATCCCCGAGAACATGGAGAAGCAGCTGGACTGGT
GCAGCGAGGCGCCCTTCTACACGCTCGGCCCCCTGGCGACGGACATCGCGCCTGC
GTACGACCACATCACCTCCGCGATCGGCGCCGCCACGATCGGCGCGCTGGGGAC
CGCGCTGCTGTGTTACGTGACCCCGAAGGAGCACCTGGGCCTCCCCGATCGCGAC
GACGTGAAGGCCGGGGTGATCGCCTACAAGATCGCGGCGCACGCGGCTGACCTG
GCGAAGGGTCACCCCTACGCTCAGGAGTGGGATAACGCCCTCTCTAAGGCGCGC
TTCGAGTTCCGGTGGTACGACCAGTTCCACCTGTCGCTGGACCCCGTCACCGCCC
GCCTGTTCCATGACGCGACCCTGCCGCAGGAGCCCGCCAAGACCGCCCACTTCTG
CTCCATGTGCGGCCCCAAGTTCTGCTCCATGCAGATCACCCAGGACCTCCGCGAG
TACGCCAAGAACCATCAAATGGAGGAGGACGAGGCGATCCAAACCGGCATGGCC
GAGATGTCCGAGCAGTTCAAGAGCATCGGCGCGGAGGTCTACCTCGACGAGGCG
GTGCTGGAGCACGCGTAACAATTGAAGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACAC
ACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACC
TGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGT
ACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGC
ATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGT
CCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTG
GTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAA
TGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTTGAGCTCA
GAATAGTATCGGGTGATGCGAAGTCAGAACCAGGCAGGGCCTGTCGCCTGAGGT
GGCAACGATGGGAAGCAATCAATCTGGGTACAGTCGTCCGCACGATCCCGTGAT
CTCCCCCACCGACACCTATCCCCGCCCATCCCGGCCCACCCTTTCAGTCCCCTCAG
CATGCATTGTGCACCGCGACAAAGCATGTCTGCTCGTGCACTGGTTCAGGCCACG
GCGCACCGAGTCCTCGCCCTTCGCAGAGTGATCACCCTCCCCGGAACCAGCCACG
                            284

CTCGCTGCTGCGGGCCGATCAGCCGCGCGCACTCCCTGCAACTAGGGACAACTCA
GGCAACCACGCGCCTCACAAGCATGGCCGCCGTGGCATCCAACCCGCTCGTGAC
GGTGGGTGCGCAAGTGCCAGGGGCCTCGTCGTCACGGCGTGCATCCTCGAGGGA
TGCGATCCGGCAACTATATGTCGTTTATCTCCCCACCAATCACAGGATGAGCCCC
TGTCTAGA
SEQ ID NO: 131
Codon-optimized Coccomyxa C-169 THIC sequence with C. protothecoides transit peptide
ACTAGTATGGCCACCGCATCCACTTTCTCGGCGTTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACC
TGCGTCGCTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCG
CGGGCGCGCCGCGATCGCCGCTCCCGAGCGGCTGGACTACCTCGACAACGCGGA
GGAGGCGCGGCTGCAGCAGACGGACGCCTTCGCCGAGCTGAAGGCGCTGTCGAG
CCGCCAGTCCGTGAACCGGCCCCAAAAGGGCGAGCTGTCGTTCCGGCAGTCGCC
GACCTTTCAGGACTGCTTCCCTGGCTCGGAGAAGTGCTACCGCGAGGTGGAGCAC
GATGGCAAGACGCTCAAGGTGCCTTTTCGCCGGGTGCACCTGCAGGACGACAAC
GGCCATTTCGACCTGTACGACACCTCTGGCCCCCAGGGCGTGAACCCCCGCGAGG
GTCTGCCCAAGATCCGCTCCTCCTGGGTGGAGCCGCGCGAGGCGCGGGGCGACA
AGGTGCAAACGCAGCAGTACTACGCCAAGCAAGGCATCATCACCGAGGAGATGG
CCTTCTGCGCTGCGCGCGAGCGCATGGACCCCGAGTTCATCCGGTCTGAGGTGGC
CCGGGGTCGGGCCATCATCCCTGCGAACAAGCGCCATCTGGAGCTGGAGCCGAC
CGTCGTGGGCCGCAACTTTCTGGTCAAGGTGAACGCCAACATCGGCAACTCTGCG
GTCAGCTCGAGCATCGAGGAGGAGGTGGAGAAGCTGCAGTGGAGCACCATCTGG
GGTGCCGACACGGCCATGGACCTGAGCACCGGCAACAACATCCACGAGACGCGC
GAGTGGGTGATGCGCAACAGCCCGGTCCCTGTGGGTACGGTCCCTATCTACCAGT
GCCTGGAGAAGGCGGGCGGCATCGTGGAGAACATCACCTGGGAGCTGTTCCGGG
AGACGCTGATCGAGCAGGCCGAGCAGGGCGTCGACTACTTTACCATCCACGCGG
GGGTCCTGCTCCGCTACATCCCCCTGACGGCGAACCGCGTCACCGGCATCGTCAG
CCGCGGCGGCTCTATCCATGCCAAGCTCTGCCTGCTGGACCACACCGAGAACTTC
GCCTACATGCACTGGGACGAGATCCTGGACATCTGCGCCCAGTACGACATCACCC
TGTCGATCGGCGACGGCCTGCGCCCCGGCTGCATCGCGGACGCCAACGACGCTG
CCCAGTTTGCTGAGCTGAAGACCCAGGGCGAGCTGACCCGCCGCGCCTGGGCGA
AGGACGTGCAGGTGATGAACGAGGGTCCCGGCCATGTGCCGCTGCACAAGATCC
CCGAGAACATGGAGAAGCAGCTGGACTGGTGCAGCGAGGCGCCCTTCTACACGC
TCGGCCCCCTGGCGACGGACATCGCGCCTGCGTACGACCACATCACCTCCGCGAT
CGGCGCCGCCACGATCGGCGCGCTGGGGACCGCGCTGCTGTGTTACGTGACCCC
GAAGGAGCACCTGGGCCTCCCCGATCGCGACGACGTGAAGGCCGGGGTGATCGC
CTACAAGATCGCGGCGCACGCGGCTGACCTGGCGAAGGGTCACCCCTACGCTCA
GGAGTGGGATAACGCCCTCTCTAAGGCGCGCTTCGAGTTCCGGTGGTACGACCA
GTTCCACCTGTCGCTGGACCCCGTCACCGCCCGCCTGTTCCATGACGCGACCCTG
CCGCAGGAGCCCGCCAAGACCGCCCACTTCTGCTCCATGTGCGGCCCCAAGTTCT
GCTCCATGCAGATCACCCAGGACCTCCGCGAGTACGCCAAGAACCATCAAATGG
AGGAGGACGAGGCGATCCAAACCGGCATGGCCGAGATGTCCGAGCAGTTCAAGA
GCATCGGCGCGGAGGTCTACCTCGACGAGGCGGTGCTGGAGCACGCGTAACAAT
TG
SEQ ID NO: 132
Chlorella protothecoides actin promoter/5'UTR
                                           285

ACTAGAGAGTlTAGGTCCAGCGTCCGTGGGGGGGGACGGGCTGGGAGCTTGGGC
CGGGAAGGGCAAGACGATGCAGTCCCTCTGGGGAGTCACAGCCGACTGTGTGTG
lTGCACTGTGCGGCCCGCAGCACTCACACGCAAAATGCCTGGCCGACAGGCAGG
CCCTGTCCAGTGCAACATCCACGGTCCCTCTCATCAGGCTCACCTTGCTCAlTGAC
ATAACGGAATGCGTACCGCTCT1TCAGATCTGTCCATCCAGAGAGGGGAGCAGG
CTCCCCACCGACGCTGTCAAACTTGCTTCCTGCCCAACCGAAAACA1TATTGT1T
GAGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGCAGATTGCATGGCGGGATATCTCGTGAGGAACAT
CACTGGGACACTGTGGAACACAGTGAGTGCAGTATGCAGAGCATGTATGCTAGG
GGTCAGCGCAGGAAGGGGGCCTTTCCCAGTCTCCCATGCCACTGCACCGTATCCA
CGACTCACCAGGACCAGCTTCTTGATCGGCTTCCGCTCCCGTGGACACCAGTGTG
TAGCCTCTGGACTCCAGGTATGCGTGCACCGCAAAGGCCAGCCGATCGTGCCGAT
TCCTGGGGTGGAGGATATGAGTCAGCCAACTTGGGGCTCAGAGTGCACACTGGG
GCACGATACGAAACAACATCTACACCGTGTCCTCCATGCTGACACACCACAGCTT
CGCTCCACCTGAATGTGGGCGCATGGGCCCGAATCACAGCCAATGTCGCTGCTGC
CATAATGTGATCCAGACCCTCTCCGCCCAGATGCCGAGCGGATCGTGGGCGCTGA
ATAGA1TCCTGTTTCGATCACTG1TTGGGTCC1TTCCT1TTCGTCTCGGATGCGCG
TCTCGAAACAGGCTGCGTCGGGC1TTCGGATCCCT1TTGCTCCCTCCGTCACCATC
CTGCGCGCGGGCAAG1TGCTTGACCCTGGGCTGGTACCAGGGTTGGAGGGTA1TA
CCGCGTCAGGCCATTCCCAGCCCGGATTCAAlTCAAAGTCTGGGCCACCACCCTC
CGCCGCTCTGTCTGATCACTCCACATTCGTGCATACACTACGlTCAAGTCCTGATC
CAGGCGTGTCTCGGGACAAGGTGTGCTTGAGlTTGAATCTCAAGGACCCACTCCA
GCACAGCTGCTGGlTGACCCCGCCCTCGCAA
SEQ ID NO: 133
Chiarella protothecoides EFlA 3'UTR
ACGGAGCGTCGTGCGGGAGGGAGTGTGCCGAGCGGGGAGTCCCGGTCTGTGCGA
GGCCCGGCAGCTGACGCTGGCGAGCCGTACGCCCCGAGGGTCCCCCTCCCCTGC
ACCCTC1TCCCC1TCCCTCTGACGGCCGCGCCTGTTCTTGCATG1TCAGCGAC
SEQ ID NO: 134
Relevant sequence of A. thaliana THIC expression cassette
GCTCTTCGCCGCCGCCACTCCTGCTCGAGCGCGCCCGCGCGTGCGCCGCCAGCGC
CTTGGCClTTTCGCCGCGCTCGTGCGCGTCGCTGATGTCCATCACCAGGTCCATG
AGGTCTGCCTTGCGCCGGCTGAGCCACTGCTTCGTCCGGGCGGCCAAGAGGAGC
ATGAGGGAGGACTCCTGGTCCAGGGTCCTGACGTGGTCGCGGCTCTGGGAGCGG
GCCAGCATCATCTGGCTCTGCCGCACCGAGGCCGCCTCCAACTGGTCCTCCAGCA
GCCGCAGTCGCCGCCGACCCTGGCAGAGGAAGACAGGTGAGGGGGGTATGAATT
GTACAGAACAACCACGAGCC1TGTCTAGGCAGAATCCCTACCAGTCATGGC1TTA
CCTGGATGACGGCCTGCGAACAGCTGTCCAGCGACCCTCGCTGCCGCCGClTCTC
CCGCACGCTTCTTTCCAGCACCGTGATGGCGCGAGCCAGCGCCGCACGCTGGCGC
TGCGCTTCGCCGATCTGAGGACAGTCGGGGAACTCTGATCAGTCTAAACCCCCTT
GCGCG1TAGTGTTGCCATCCT1TGCAGACCGGTGAGAGCCGACTTG1TGTGCGCC
ACCCCCCACACCACCTCCTCCCAGACCAA1TCTGTCACC1TT1TGGCGAAGGCAT
CGGCCTCGGCCTGCAGAGAGGACAGCAGTGCCCAGCCGCTGGGGGlTGGCGGAT
GCACGCTCAGGTACCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGACAClTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGG
GCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGClTCGACCCCCC
GAAGCTCClTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGT
lTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCAT
                                           286

A1TCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCAC1TCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCG
CACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTC1TCCTC1TCGTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACTC
TAGAATATCAATGATCGAGCAGGACGGCCTCCACGCCGGCTCCCCCGCCGCCTG
GGTGGAGCGCCTGTTCGGCTACGACTGGGCCCAGCAGACCATCGGCTGCTCCGA
CGCCGCCGTGTTCCGCCTGTCCGCCCAGGGCCGCCCCGTGCTGTTCGTGAAGACC
GACCTGTCCGGCGCCCTGAACGAGCTGCAGGACGAGGCCGCCCGCCTGTCCTGG
CTGGCCACCACCGGCGTGCCCTGCGCCGCCGTGCTGGACGTGGTGACCGAGGCC
GGCCGCGACTGGCTGCTGCTGGGCGAGGTGCCCGGCCAGGACCTGCTGTCCTCCC
ACCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGAAGGTGTCCATCATGGCCGACGCCATGCGCCGCCTGC
ACACCCTGGACCCCGCCACCTGCCCCTTCGACCACCAGGCCAAGCACCGCATCGA
GCGCGCCCGCACCCGCATGGAGGCCGGCCTGGTGGACCAGGACGACCTGGACGA
GGAGCACCAGGGCCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGCTG1TCGCCCGCCTGAAGGCCCGCAT
GCCCGACGGCGAGGACCTGGTGGTGACCCACGGCGACGCCTGCCTGCCCAACAT
CATGGTGGAGAACGGCCGC1TCTCCGGC1TCATCGACTGCGGCCGCCTGGGCGTG
GCCGACCGCTACCAGGACATCGCCCTGGCCACCCGCGACATCGCCGAGGAGCTG
GGCGGCGAGTGGGCCGACCGCTTCCTGGTGCTGTACGGCATCGCCGCCCCCGACT
CCCAGCGCATCGCCTTCTACCGCCTGCTGGACGAGTTCTTCTGACAA1TGGCAGC
AGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTG1TG
CCGCCACAC1TGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCT1TTATCAAACAGCC
TCAGTGTGTTTGATC1TGTGTGTACGCGCT1TTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGC1TGTGCT
A1TTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCC1TCCCTCGTTTCATATCGC1TGCATCCC
AACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCT
CACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCC1TGGT1TGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCA
ACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACA
CAAATGGAGGATCCACTAGAGAGTTTAGGTCCAGCGTCCGTGGGGGGGGACGGG
CTGGGAGCTTGGGCCGGGAAGGGCAAGACGATGCAGTCCCTCTGGGGAGTCACA
GCCGACTGTGTGTGTTGCACTGTGCGGCCCGCAGCACTCACACGCAAAATGCCTG
GCCGACAGGCAGGCCCTGTCCAGTGCAACATCCACGGTCCCTCTCATCAGGCTCA
CCTTGCTCATTGACATAACGGAATGCGTACCGCTC1TTCAGATCTGTCCATCCAG
AGAGGGGAGCAGGCTCCCCACCGACGCTGTCAAACTTGCTTCCTGCCCAACCGA
AAACATTATTGTTTGAGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGCAGATTGCATGGCGGGATATC
TCGTGAGGAACATCACTGGGACACTGTGGAACACAGTGAGTGCAGTATGCAGAG
CATGTATGCTAGGGGTCAGCGCAGGAAGGGGGCC1TTCCCAGTCTCCCATGCCAC
TGCACCGTATCCACGACTCACCAGGACCAGCTTCTTGATCGGCTTCCGCTCCCGT
GGACACCAGTGTGTAGCCTCTGGACTCCAGGTATGCGTGCACCGCAAAGGCCAG
CCGATCGTGCCGA1TCCTGGGGTGGAGGATATGAGTCAGCCAACTTGGGGCTCA
GAGTGCACACTGGGGCACGATACGAAACAACATCTACACCGTGTCCTCCATGCT
GACACACCACAGCTTCGCTCCACCTGAATGTGGGCGCATGGGCCCGAATCACAG
CCAATGTCGCTGCTGCCATAATGTGATCCAGACCCTCTCCGCCCAGATGCCGAGC
GGATCGTGGGCGCTGAATAGATTCCTGT1TCGATCACTGT1TGGGTCCT1TCCTTT
TCGTCTCGGATGCGCGTCTCGAAACAGGCTGCGTCGGGC1TTCGGATCCCT1TTG
CTCCCTCCGTCACCATCCTGCGCGCGGGCAAGTTGCTTGACCCTGGGCTGGTACC
AGGG1TGGAGGGTATTACCGCGTCAGGCCATTCCCAGCCCGGATTCAATTCAAAG
TCTGGGCCACCACCCTCCGCCGCTCTGTCTGATCACTCCACA1TCGTGCATACACT
ACG1TCAAGTCCTGATCCAGGCGTGTCTCGGGACAAGGTGTGCTTGAGTTTGAAT
CTCAAGGACCCACTCCAGCACAGCTGCTGGTTGACCCCGCCCTCGCAAACTAGTA
TGGCCACCGCATCCAC1TTCTCGGCG1TCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACCTGCGTCG
CTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCGCGGGCG
CGCCGTCCAGGCCGCGGCCACCCGC1TCAAGAAGGAGACGACGACCACCCGCGC
CACGCTGACGTTCGACCCCCCCACGACCAACTCCGAGCGCGCCAAGCAGCGCAA
                           287

GCACACCATCGACCCCTCCTCCCCCGACTTCCAGCCCATCCCCTCCTTCGAGGAG
TGCTTCCCCAAGTCCACGAAGGAGCACAAGGAGGTGGTGCACGAGGAGTCCGGC
CACGTCCTGAAGGTGCCCTTCCGCCGCGTGCACCTGTCCGGCGGCGAGCCCGCCT
TCGACAACTACGACACGTCCGGCCCCCAGAACGTCAACGCCCACATCGGCCTGG
CGAAGCTGCGCAAGGAGTGGATCGACCGCCGCGAGAAGCTGGGCACGCCCCGCT
ACACGCAGATGTACTACGCGAAGCAGGGCATCATCACGGAGGAGATGCTGTACT
GCGCGACGCGCGAGAAGCTGGACCCCGAGTTCGTCCGCTCCGAGGTCGCGCGGG
GCCGCGCCATCATCCCCTCCAACAAGAAGCACCTGGAGCTGGAGCCCATGATCG
TGGGCCGCAAGTTCCTGGTGAAGGTGAACGCGAACATCGGCAACTCCGCCGTGG
CCTCCTCCATCGAGGAGGAGGTCTACAAGGTGCAGTGGGCCACCATGTGGGGCG
CCGACACCATCATGGACCTGTCCACGGGCCGCCACATCCACGAGACGCGCGAGT
GGATCCTGCGCAACTCCGCGGTCCCCGTGGGCACCGTCCCCATCTACCAGGCGCT
GGAGAAGGTGGACGGCATCGCGGAGAACCTGAACTGGGAGGTGTTCCGCGAGAC
GCTGATCGAGCAGGCCGAGCAGGGCGTGGACTACTTCACGATCCACGCGGGCGT
GCTGCTGCGCTACATCCCCCTGACCGCCAAGCGCCTGACGGGCATCGTGTCCCGC
GGCGGCTCCATCCACGCGAAGTGGTGCCTGGCCTACCACAAGGAGAACTTCGCC
TACGAGCACTGGGACGACATCCTGGACATCTGCAACCAGTACGACGTCGCCCTGT
CCATCGGCGACGGCCTGCGCCCCGGCTCCATCTACGACGCCAACGACACGGCCC
AGTTCGCCGAGCTGCTGACCCAGGGCGAGCTGACGCGCCGCGCGTGGGAGAAGG
ACGTGCAGGTGATGAACGAGGGCCCCGGCCACGTGCCCATGCACAAGATCCCCG
AGAACATGCAGAAGCAGCTGGAGTGGTGCAACGAGGCGCCCTTCTACACCCTGG
GCCCCCTGACGACCGACATCGCGCCCGGCTACGACCACATCACCTCCGCCATCGG
CGCGGCCAACATCGGCGCCCTGGGCACCGCCCTGCTGTGCTACGTGACGCCCAA
GGAGCACCTGGGCCTGCCCAACCGCGACGACGTGAAGGCGGGCGTCATCGCCTA
CAAGATCGCCGCCCACGCGGCCGACCTGGCCAAGCAGCACCCCCACGCCCAGGC
GTGGGACGACGCGCTGTCCAAGGCGCGCTTCGAGTTCCGCTGGATGGACCAGTTC
GCGCTGTCCCTGGACCCCATGACGGCGATGTCCTTCCACGACGAGACGCTGCCCG
CGGACGGCGCGAAGGTCGCCCACTTCTGCTCCATGTGCGGCCCCAAGTTCTGCTC
CATGAAGATCACGGAGGACATCCGCAAGTACGCCGAGGAGAACGGCTACGGCTC
CGCCGAGGAGGCCATCCGCCAGGGCATGGACGCCATGTCCGAGGAGTTCAACAT
CGCCAAGAAGACGATCTCCGGCGAGCAGCACGGCGAGGTCGGCGGCGAGATCTA
CCTGCCCGAGTCCTACGTCAAGGCCGCGCAGAAGTGATACGTACTCGAGACGGA
GCGTCGTGCGGGAGGGAGTGTGCCGAGCGGGGAGTCCCGGTCTGTGCGAGGCCC
GGCAGCTGACGCTGGCGAGCCGTACGCCCCGAGGGTCCCCCTCCCCTGCACCCTC
TTCCCCTTCCCTCTGACGGCCGCGCCTGTTCTTGCATGTTCAGCGACGAGCTCTTG
TTTTCCAGAAGGAGTTGCTCCTTGAGCCTTTCATTCTCAGCCTCGATAACCTCCAA
AGCCGCTCTAATTGTGGAGGGGGTTCGAATTTAAAAGCTTGGAATGTTGGTTCGT
GCGTCTGGAACAAGCCCAGACTTGTTGCTCACTGGGAAAAGGACCATCAGCTCC
AAAAAACTTGCCGCTCAAACCGCGTACCTCTGCTTTCGCGCAATCTGCCCTGTTG
AAATCGCCACCACATTCATATTGTGACGCTTGAGCAGTCTGTAATTGCCTCAGAA
TGTGGAATCATCTGCCCCCTGTGCGAGCCCATGCCAGGCATGTCGCGGGCGAGG
ACACCCGCCACTCGTACAGCAGACCATTATGCTACCTCACAATAGTTCATAACAG
TGACCATATTTCTCGAAGCTCCCCAACGAGCACCTCCATGCTCTGAGTGGCCACC
CCCCGGCCCTGGTGCTTGCGGAGGGCAGGTCAACCGGCATGGGGCTACCGAAAT
CCCCGACCGGATCCCACCACCCCCGCGATGGGAAGAATCTCTCCCCGGGATGTG
GGCCCACCACCAGCACAACCTGCTGGCCCAGGCGAGCGTCAAACCATACCACAC
AAATATCCTTGGCATCGGCCCTGAATTCCTTCTGCCGCTCTGCTACCCGGTGCTTC
TGTCCGAAGCAGGGGTTGCTAGGGATCGCTCCGAGTCCGCAAACCCTTGTCGCGT
GGCGGGGCTTGTTCGAGCTTGAAGAGC
                           288

SEQ ID NO: 135
Codon-optimized A. thaliana THIC with C. protothecoides transit peptide
ATGGCCACCGCATCCACTTTCTCGGCGTTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACCTGCGTC
GCTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCGCGGGC
GCGCCGTCCAGGCCGCGGCCACCCGCTTCAAGAAGGAGACGACGACCACCCGCG
CCACGCTGACGTTCGACCCCCCCACGACCAACTCCGAGCGCGCCAAGCAGCGCA
AGCACACCATCGACCCCTCCTCCCCCGACTTCCAGCCCATCCCCTCCTTCGAGGA
GTGCTTCCCCAAGTCCACGAAGGAGCACAAGGAGGTGGTGCACGAGGAGTCCGG
CCACGTCCTGAAGGTGCCCTTCCGCCGCGTGCACCTGTCCGGCGGCGAGCCCGCC
TTCGACAACTACGACACGTCCGGCCCCCAGAACGTCAACGCCCACATCGGCCTG
GCGAAGCTGCGCAAGGAGTGGATCGACCGCCGCGAGAAGCTGGGCACGCCCCGC
TACACGCAGATGTACTACGCGAAGCAGGGCATCATCACGGAGGAGATGCTGTAC
TGCGCGACGCGCGAGAAGCTGGACCCCGAGTTCGTCCGCTCCGAGGTCGCGCGG
GGCCGCGCCATCATCCCCTCCAACAAGAAGCACCTGGAGCTGGAGCCCATGATC
GTGGGCCGCAAGTTCCTGGTGAAGGTGAACGCGAACATCGGCAACTCCGCCGTG
GCCTCCTCCATCGAGGAGGAGGTCTACAAGGTGCAGTGGGCCACCATGTGGGGC
GCCGACACCATCATGGACCTGTCCACGGGCCGCCACATCCACGAGACGCGCGAG
TGGATCCTGCGCAACTCCGCGGTCCCCGTGGGCACCGTCCCCATCTACCAGGCGC
TGGAGAAGGTGGACGGCATCGCGGAGAACCTGAACTGGGAGGTGTTCCGCGAGA
CGCTGATCGAGCAGGCCGAGCAGGGCGTGGACTACTTCACGATCCACGCGGGCG
TGCTGCTGCGCTACATCCCCCTGACCGCCAAGCGCCTGACGGGCATCGTGTCCCG
CGGCGGCTCCATCCACGCGAAGTGGTGCCTGGCCTACCACAAGGAGAACTTCGC
CTACGAGCACTGGGACGACATCCTGGACATCTGCAACCAGTACGACGTCGCCCT
GTCCATCGGCGACGGCCTGCGCCCCGGCTCCATCTACGACGCCAACGACACGGC
CCAGTTCGCCGAGCTGCTGACCCAGGGCGAGCTGACGCGCCGCGCGTGGGAGAA
GGACGTGCAGGTGATGAACGAGGGCCCCGGCCACGTGCCCATGCACAAGATCCC
CGAGAACATGCAGAAGCAGCTGGAGTGGTGCAACGAGGCGCCCTTCTACACCCT
GGGCCCCCTGACGACCGACATCGCGCCCGGCTACGACCACATCACCTCCGCCATC
GGCGCGGCCAACATCGGCGCCCTGGGCACCGCCCTGCTGTGCTACGTGACGCCC
AAGGAGCACCTGGGCCTGCCCAACCGCGACGACGTGAAGGCGGGCGTCATCGCC
TACAAGATCGCCGCCCACGCGGCCGACCTGGCCAAGCAGCACCCCCACGCCCAG
GCGTGGGACGACGCGCTGTCCAAGGCGCGCTTCGAGTTCCGCTGGATGGACCAG
TTCGCGCTGTCCCTGGACCCCATGACGGCGATGTCCTTCCACGACGAGACGCTGC
CCGCGGACGGCGCGAAGGTCGCCCACTTCTGCTCCATGTGCGGCCCCAAGTTCTG
CTCCATGAAGATCACGGAGGACATCCGCAAGTACGCCGAGGAGAACGGCTACGG
CTCCGCCGAGGAGGCCATCCGCCAGGGCATGGACGCCATGTCCGAGGAGTTCAA
CATCGCCAAGAAGACGATCTCCGGCGAGCAGCACGGCGAGGTCGGCGGCGAGAT
CTACCTGCCCGAGTCCTACGTCAAGGCCGCGCAGAAGTGA
SEQ ID NO: 136
A. thaliana amino acid sequence (with native transit peptide sequence)
MAASVHCTLMSVVCNNKNHSARPKLPNSSLLPGFDVVVQAAATRFKKETTTTRATL
TFDPPTTNSERAKQRKHTIDPSSPDFQPIPSFEECFPKSTKEHKEVVHEESGHVLKVPF
RRVHLSGGEPAFDNYDTSGPQNVNAHIGLAKLRKEWIDRREKLGTPRYTQMYYAKQ
GIITEEMLYCATREKLDPEFVRSEVARGRAIIPSNKKHLELEPMIVGRKFLVKVNANIG
NSAVASSIEEEVYKVQWATMWGADTIMDLSTGRHIHETREWILRNSAVPVGTVPIYQ
ALEKVDGIAENLNWEVFRETLIEQAEQGVDYFTIHAGVLLRYIPLTAKRLTGIVSRGG
SIHAKWCLAYHKENFAYEHWDDILDICNQYDVALSIGDGLRPGSIYDANDTAQFAEL
                                             289

LTQGELTRRAWEKDVQVMNEGPGHVPMHKIPENMQKQLEWCNEAPFYTLGPLTTD
IAPGYDHITSAIGAANIGALGTALLCYVTPKEHLGLPNRDDVKAGVIAYKIAAHAAD
LAKQHPHAQAWDDALSKARFEFRWMDQFALSLDPMTAMSFHDETLPADGAKVAH
FCSMCGPKFCSMKITEDIRKYAEENGYGSAEEAIRQGMDAMSEEFNIAKKTISGEQH
GEVGGEIYLPESYVKAAQK
SEQ ID NO: 137
Relevant sequence of Synechocystis sp. thiC expression cassette
GCTCTTCGCCGCCGCCACTCCTGCTCGAGCGCGCCCGCGCGTGCGCCGCCAGCGC
CTTGGCCTTTTCGCCGCGCTCGTGCGCGTCGCTGATGTCCATCACCAGGTCCATG
AGGTCTGCCTTGCGCCGGCTGAGCCACTGCTTCGTCCGGGCGGCCAAGAGGAGC
ATGAGGGAGGACTCCTGGTCCAGGGTCCTGACGTGGTCGCGGCTCTGGGAGCGG
GCCAGCATCATCTGGCTCTGCCGCACCGAGGCCGCCTCCAACTGGTCCTCCAGCA
GCCGCAGTCGCCGCCGACCCTGGCAGAGGAAGACAGGTGAGGGGGGTATGAATT
GTACAGAACAACCACGAGCCTTGTCTAGGCAGAATCCCTACCAGTCATGGCTTTA
CCTGGATGACGGCCTGCGAACAGCTGTCCAGCGACCCTCGCTGCCGCCGCTTCTC
CCGCACGCTTCTTTCCAGCACCGTGATGGCGCGAGCCAGCGCCGCACGCTGGCGC
TGCGCTTCGCCGATCTGAGGACAGTCGGGGAACTCTGATCAGTCTAAACCCCCTT
GCGCGTTAGTGTTGCCATCCTTTGCAGACCGGTGAGAGCCGACTTGTTGTGCGCC
ACCCCCCACACCACCTCCTCCCAGACCAATTCTGTCACCTTTTTGGCGAAGGCAT
CGGCCTCGGCCTGCAGAGAGGACAGCAGTGCCCAGCCGCTGGGGGTTGGCGGAT
GCACGCTCAGGTACCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGG
GCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCC
GAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGT
TTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCAT
ATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCG
CACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACTC
TAGAATATCAATGATCGAGCAGGACGGCCTCCACGCCGGCTCCCCCGCCGCCTG
GGTGGAGCGCCTGTTCGGCTACGACTGGGCCCAGCAGACCATCGGCTGCTCCGA
CGCCGCCGTGTTCCGCCTGTCCGCCCAGGGCCGCCCCGTGCTGTTCGTGAAGACC
GACCTGTCCGGCGCCCTGAACGAGCTGCAGGACGAGGCCGCCCGCCTGTCCTGG
CTGGCCACCACCGGCGTGCCCTGCGCCGCCGTGCTGGACGTGGTGACCGAGGCC
GGCCGCGACTGGCTGCTGCTGGGCGAGGTGCCCGGCCAGGACCTGCTGTCCTCCC
ACCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGAAGGTGTCCATCATGGCCGACGCCATGCGCCGCCTGC
ACACCCTGGACCCCGCCACCTGCCCCTTCGACCACCAGGCCAAGCACCGCATCGA
GCGCGCCCGCACCCGCATGGAGGCCGGCCTGGTGGACCAGGACGACCTGGACGA
GGAGCACCAGGGCCTGGCCCCCGCCGAGCTGTTCGCCCGCCTGAAGGCCCGCAT
GCCCGACGGCGAGGACCTGGTGGTGACCCACGGCGACGCCTGCCTGCCCAACAT
CATGGTGGAGAACGGCCGCTTCTCCGGCTTCATCGACTGCGGCCGCCTGGGCGTG
GCCGACCGCTACCAGGACATCGCCCTGGCCACCCGCGACATCGCCGAGGAGCTG
GGCGGCGAGTGGGCCGACCGCTTCCTGGTGCTGTACGGCATCGCCGCCCCCGACT
CCCAGCGCATCGCCTTCTACCGCCTGCTGGACGAGTTCTTCTGACAATTGGCAGC
AGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTG
CCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCC
TCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCT
ATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCC
AACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCT
CACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCA
ACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACA
                                            290

CAAATGGAGGATCCACTAGAGAGTTTAGGTCCAGCGTCCGTGGGGGGGGACGGG
CTGGGAGCTTGGGCCGGGAAGGGCAAGACGATGCAGTCCCTCTGGGGAGTCACA
GCCGACTGTGTGTGTTGCACTGTGCGGCCCGCAGCACTCACACGCAAAATGCCTG
GCCGACAGGCAGGCCCTGTCCAGTGCAACATCCACGGTCCCTCTCATCAGGCTCA
CCTTGCTCATTGACATAACGGAATGCGTACCGCTCTTTCAGATCTGTCCATCCAG
AGAGGGGAGCAGGCTCCCCACCGACGCTGTCAAACTTGCTTCCTGCCCAACCGA
AAACATTATTGTTTGAGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGCAGATTGCATGGCGGGATATC
TCGTGAGGAACATCACTGGGACACTGTGGAACACAGTGAGTGCAGTATGCAGAG
CATGTATGCTAGGGGTCAGCGCAGGAAGGGGGCCTTTCCCAGTCTCCCATGCCAC
TGCACCGTATCCACGACTCACCAGGACCAGCTTCTTGATCGGCTTCCGCTCCCGT
GGACACCAGTGTGTAGCCTCTGGACTCCAGGTATGCGTGCACCGCAAAGGCCAG
CCGATCGTGCCGATTCCTGGGGTGGAGGATATGAGTCAGCCAACTTGGGGCTCA
GAGTGCACACTGGGGCACGATACGAAACAACATCTACACCGTGTCCTCCATGCT
GACACACCACAGCTTCGCTCCACCTGAATGTGGGCGCATGGGCCCGAATCACAG
CCAATGTCGCTGCTGCCATAATGTGATCCAGACCCTCTCCGCCCAGATGCCGAGC
GGATCGTGGGCGCTGAATAGATTCCTGTTTCGATCACTGTTTGGGTCCTTTCCTTT
TCGTCTCGGATGCGCGTCTCGAAACAGGCTGCGTCGGGCTTTCGGATCCCTTTTG
CTCCCTCCGTCACCATCCTGCGCGCGGGCAAGTTGCTTGACCCTGGGCTGGTACC
AGGGTTGGAGGGTATTACCGCGTCAGGCCATTCCCAGCCCGGATTCAATTCAAAG
TCTGGGCCACCACCCTCCGCCGCTCTGTCTGATCACTCCACATTCGTGCATACACT
ACGTTCAAGTCCTGATCCAGGCGTGTCTCGGGACAAGGTGTGCTTGAGTTTGAAT
CTCAAGGACCCACTCCAGCACAGCTGCTGGTTGACCCCGCCCTCGCAAACTAGTA
TGGCCACCGCATCCACTTTCTCGGCGTTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACCTGCGTCG
CTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCGCGGGCG
CGCCATGCGCACCGCGTGGGTCGCCAAGCGCCAGGGCCAGACGAACGTCTCCCA
GATGCACTACGCGCGCAAGGGCGTGATCACCGAGGAGATGGACTACGTGGCGAA
GCGCGAGAACCTGCCCGTGGAGCTGATCAAGGACGAGGTGGCGCGGGGCCGCAT
GATCATCCCCGCCAACATCAACCACACGAACCTGGAGCCCATGGCCATCGGCAT
CGCCTCCAAGTGCAAGGTCAACGCGAACATCGGCGCGTCCCCCAACTCCTCCAAC
ATCGACGAGGAGGTGGAGAAGCTGCTGCTGTCCGTGAAGTACGGCGCGGACACG
GTGATGGACCTGTCCACCGGCGGCGGCGACCTGGACGTGATCCGCACCGCCATC
ATCAACGCCTCCCCCGTGCCCATCGGCACGGTGCCCATCTACCAGGCCCTGGAGT
CCGTGCACGGCTCCATCGAGAACCTGACGCCCGACGACTTCCTGCACATCATCGA
GAAGCACGCCCAGCAGGGCGTGGACTACATGACGATCCACGCGGGCCTGCTGAT
CGAGTACCTGCCCCTGGTGAAGTCCCGCATCACGGGCATCGTGTCCCGCGGCGGC
GGCATCATCGCCAAGTGGATGCTGCACCACCACAAGCAGAACCCCCTGTACACG
CACTTCGACGAGATCATCGAGATCTTCAAGAAGTACGACGTGTCCTTCTCCCTGG
GCGACTCCCTGCGCCCCGGCTGCACCCACGACGCCTCCGACGACGCCCAGCTGTC
CGAGCTGAAGACGCTGGGCCAGCTGACGCGCCGCGCCTGGGAGCACGACGTCCA
GGTCATGGTGGAGGGCCCCGGCCACGTCCCCATCGACCAGATCGAGTTCAACGT
CAAGAAGCAGATGGAGGAGTGCTCCGAGGCCCCCTTCTACGTGCTGGGCCCCCT
GGTCACCGACATCGCGCCCGGCTACGACCACATCACCTCCGCGATCGGCGCCGCC
ATCGCGGGCTGGCACGGCACCGCGATGCTGTGCTACGTGACGCCCAAGGAGCAC
CTGGGCCTGCCCAACGCGGAGGACGTGCGCAACGGCCTGATCGCCTACAAGATC
GCCGCGCACGCCGCGGACATCGCCCGCCACCGCCCCGGCGCGCGCGACCGCGAC
GACGAGCTGTCCAAGGCGCGCTACAACTTCGACTGGAACCGCCAGTTCGAGCTG
TCCCTGGACCCCGAGCGCGCGAAGGAGTACCACGACGAGACGCTGCCCGCGGAC
ATCTACAAGACCGCGGAGTTCTGCTCCATGTGCGGCCCCAAGTTCTGCCCCATGC
AGACCAAGGTGGACGCCGAGATGCTGGAGGAGCTGGAGGTCTTCCTGGCCAAGG
ACAAGGAGATGGTGTCCCAGCGCTGATACGTACTCGAGACGGAGCGTCGTGCGG
                           291

GAGGGAGTGTGCCGAGCGGGGAGTCCCGGTCTGTGCGAGGCCCGGCAGCTGACG
CTGGCGAGCCGTACGCCCCGAGGGTCCCCCTCCCCTGCACCCTCTTCCCCTTCCCT
CTGACGGCCGCGCCTGTTCTTGCATGTTCAGCGACGAGCTCTTGTTTTCCAGAAG
GAGTTGCTCCTTGAGCCTTTCATTCTCAGCCTCGATAACCTCCAAAGCCGCTCTAA
TTGTGGAGGGGGTTCGAATTTAAAAGCTTGGAATGTTGGTTCGTGCGTCTGGAAC
AAGCCCAGACTTGTTGCTCACTGGGAAAAGGACCATCAGCTCCAAAAAACTTGC
CGCTCAAACCGCGTACCTCTGCTTTCGCGCAATCTGCCCTGTTGAAATCGCCACC
ACATTCATATTGTGACGCTTGAGCAGTCTGTAATTGCCTCAGAATGTGGAATCAT
CTGCCCCCTGTGCGAGCCCATGCCAGGCATGTCGCGGGCGAGGACACCCGCCAC
TCGTACAGCAGACCATTATGCTACCTCACAATAGTTCATAACAGTGACCATATTT
CTCGAAGCTCCCCAACGAGCACCTCCATGCTCTGAGTGGCCACCCCCCGGCCCTG
GTGCTTGCGGAGGGCAGGTCAACCGGCATGGGGCTACCGAAATCCCCGACCGGA
TCCCACCACCCCCGCGATGGGAAGAATCTCTCCCCGGGATGTGGGCCCACCACCA
GCACAACCTGCTGGCCCAGGCGAGCGTCAAACCATACCACACAAATATCCTTGG
CATCGGCCCTGAATTCCTTCTGCCGCTCTGCTACCCGGTGCTTCTGTCCGAAGCAG
GGGTTGCTAGGGATCGCTCCGAGTCCGCAAACCCTTGTCGCGTGGCGGGGCTTGT
TCGAGCTTGAAGAGCCTCTAGAGTCGACCTGCAGGCATGCAAGCTTGGCGTAATC
ATGGTCATAGCTGTTTCCTGTGTGAAATTGTTATCCGCTCACAATTCCACACAAC
ATACGAGCCGGAAGCATAAAGTGTAAAGCCTGGGGTGCCTAATGAGTGAGCTAA
CTCACATTAATTGCGTTGCGCTCACTGCCCGCTTTCCAGTCGGGAAACCTGTCGT
GCCAGCTGCATTAATGAATCGGCCAACGCGCGGGGAGAGGCGGTTTGCGTATTG
GGCGCTCTTC
SEQ ID NO: 138
Codon-optimized Synechosystis sp. thiC sequence with C. protothecoides transit peptide
ATGGCCACCGCATCCACTTTCTCGGCGTTCAATGCCCGCTGCGGCGACCTGCGTC
GCTCGGCGGGCTCCGGGCCCCGGCGCCCAGCGAGGCCCCTCCCCGTGCGCGGGC
GCGCCATGCGCACCGCGTGGGTCGCCAAGCGCCAGGGCCAGACGAACGTCTCCC
AGATGCACTACGCGCGCAAGGGCGTGATCACCGAGGAGATGGACTACGTGGCGA
AGCGCGAGAACCTGCCCGTGGAGCTGATCAAGGACGAGGTGGCGCGGGGCCGCA
TGATCATCCCCGCCAACATCAACCACACGAACCTGGAGCCCATGGCCATCGGCAT
CGCCTCCAAGTGCAAGGTCAACGCGAACATCGGCGCGTCCCCCAACTCCTCCAAC
ATCGACGAGGAGGTGGAGAAGCTGCTGCTGTCCGTGAAGTACGGCGCGGACACG
GTGATGGACCTGTCCACCGGCGGCGGCGACCTGGACGTGATCCGCACCGCCATC
ATCAACGCCTCCCCCGTGCCCATCGGCACGGTGCCCATCTACCAGGCCCTGGAGT
CCGTGCACGGCTCCATCGAGAACCTGACGCCCGACGACTTCCTGCACATCATCGA
GAAGCACGCCCAGCAGGGCGTGGACTACATGACGATCCACGCGGGCCTGCTGAT
CGAGTACCTGCCCCTGGTGAAGTCCCGCATCACGGGCATCGTGTCCCGCGGCGGC
GGCATCATCGCCAAGTGGATGCTGCACCACCACAAGCAGAACCCCCTGTACACG
CACTTCGACGAGATCATCGAGATCTTCAAGAAGTACGACGTGTCCTTCTCCCTGG
GCGACTCCCTGCGCCCCGGCTGCACCCACGACGCCTCCGACGACGCCCAGCTGTC
CGAGCTGAAGACGCTGGGCCAGCTGACGCGCCGCGCCTGGGAGCACGACGTCCA
GGTCATGGTGGAGGGCCCCGGCCACGTCCCCATCGACCAGATCGAGTTCAACGT
CAAGAAGCAGATGGAGGAGTGCTCCGAGGCCCCCTTCTACGTGCTGGGCCCCCT
GGTCACCGACATCGCGCCCGGCTACGACCACATCACCTCCGCGATCGGCGCCGCC
ATCGCGGGCTGGCACGGCACCGCGATGCTGTGCTACGTGACGCCCAAGGAGCAC
CTGGGCCTGCCCAACGCGGAGGACGTGCGCAACGGCCTGATCGCCTACAAGATC
GCCGCGCACGCCGCGGACATCGCCCGCCACCGCCCCGGCGCGCGCGACCGCGAC
GACGAGCTGTCCAAGGCGCGCTACAACTTCGACTGGAACCGCCAGTTCGAGCTG
                                           292

TCCCTGGACCCCGAGCGCGCGAAGGAGTACCACGACGAGACGCTGCCCGCGGAC
ATCTACAAGACCGCGGAGTTCTGCTCCATGTGCGGCCCCAAGTTCTGCCCCATGC
AGACCAAGGTGGACGCCGAGATGCTGGAGGAGCTGGAGGTCTTCCTGGCCAAGG
ACAAGGAGATGGTGTCCCAGCGCTGA
SEQ ID NO: 139
Synechosystis sp. thiC amino acid sequence (with native transit peptide sequence)
MRTAWVAKRQGQTNVSQMHYARKGVITEEMDYVAKRENLPVELIKDEVARGRMII
PANINHTNLEPMAIGIASKCKVNANIGASPNSSNIDEEVEKLLLSVKYGADTVMDLST
GGGDLDVIRTAIINASPVPIGTVPIYQALESVHGSIENLTPDDFLHIIEKHAQQGVDYM
TIHAGLLIEYLPLVKSRITGIVSRGGGIIAKWMLHHHKQNPLYTHFDEIIEIFKKYDVSF
SLGDSLRPGCTHDASDDAQLSELKTLGQLTRRAWEHDVQVMVEGPGHVPIDQIEFN
VKKQMEECSEAPFYVLGPLVTDIAPGYDHITSAIGAAIAGWHGTAMLCYVTPKEHLG
LPNAEDVRNGLIAYKIAAHAADIARHRPGARDRDDELSKARYNFDWNRQFELSLDP
ERAKEYHDETLPADIYKTAEFCSMCGPKFCPMQTKVDAEMLEELEVFLAKDKEMVS
QR
SEQ ID NO: 140
Codon-optimized neoR gene
CTTTCTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTT
CCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGG
CTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCC
CCCGATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGA
TCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGG
GCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAAC
SEQ ID NO: 141
5' THIC Coccomyxa C-169 confirmation primer
5'-GGGTGATCGCCTACAAGA-3'
SEQ ID NO: 142
3' THIC confirmation primer
5'-ACGTCGCGACCCATGCTTCC-3'
SEQ ID NO: 143
5' THIC A. thaliana confirmation primer
5'- GCGTCATCGCCTACAAGA-3'
SEQ ID NO: 144
5' thiC Synechosystis sp. confirmation primer
5' -CGATGCTGTGCTACGTGA-3'
SEQ ID NO: 145
C callophylla TE; UTEX 1450 SAD transit peptide underlined
                                             293

atggcttccgcggcat tcaccatgtc ggcgtgcccc gcgatgactg gcagggcccc tggggcacgtcgctccggac
ggccagtcgc cacccgcctg agggggcgcg cccccaaggc caacggctccgccgtgtccc tgaagtccgg ctccctggac
acccaggagg acacctcctc ctcctcctcccccccccgca ccttcatcaa ccagctgccc gactggtcca tgctgctgtc
cgccatcaccaccgtgttcg tggccgccga gaagcagtgg accatgctgg accgcaagtc caagcgccccgacaccctga
tggacccctt cggcgtggac cgcgtggtgc aggacggcgt ggtgttccgccagtccttct ccatccgctc ctacgagatc
ggcgccgacc gcaccgcctc catcgagaccctgatgaaca tcttccagga gacctccctg aaccactgca agtccatcgg
cctgctgaacgacggcttcg gccgcacccc cgagatgtgc aagcgcgacc tgatctgggt ggtgaccaagatgcacatcg
aggtgaaccg ctaccccacc tggggcgaca ccatcgaggt gaacacctgggtgtccgagt ccggcaagac cggcatgggc
cgcgactggc tgatctccga ctgccacaccggcgagatcc tgatccgcgc cacctccgtg tgcgccatga tgaaccagac
cacccgccgcttctccaagt tcccctacga ggtgcgccag gagctggccc cccacttcgt ggactccgcccccgtgatcg
aggactacca gaagctgcac aagctggacg tgaagaccgg cgactccatctgcaacggcc tgaccccccg ctggaacgac
ctggacgtga accagcacgt gaacaacgtgaagtacatcg gctggattct ggagtccgtg cccaaggagg tgttcgagac
ccaggagctgtgcggcctga ccctggagta ccgccgcgag tgcggccgcg actccgtgct gaagtccgtgaccgccatgg
acccctccaa ggagggcgac cgctccctgt accagcacct gctgcgcctggaggacggca ccgacatcgc caagggccgc
accaagtggc gccccaagaa cgccggcaccaacggcgcca tctccaccgg caagacctcc aacggcaact ccatctcctg a
SEQ ID NO: 146
C callophylla TE; UTEX 1450 SAD transit peptide underlined
MASAAFTMSACPAMTGRAPGARRSGRPVATRLRGRAPKANGSAVSLKSGSLDTQEDTSSS
SSPPRTFINQLPDWSMLLSAITTVFV AAEKQWTMLDRKSKRPDTLMDPFGVDRVVQDGVV
FRQSFSIRSYEIGADRTASIETLMNIFQETSLNHCKSIGLLNDGFGRTPEMCKRDLIWVV
TKMHIEVNRYPTWGDTIEVNTWVSESGKTGMGRDWLISDCHTGEILIRATSVCAMMNQTT
RRFSKFPYEVRQELAPHFVDSAPVIEDYQKLHKLDVKTGDSICNGLTPRWNDLDVNQHVN
NVKYIGWILESVPKEVFETQELCGLTLEYRRECGRDSVLKSVTAMDPSKEGDRSLYQHLL
RLEDGTDIAKGRTKWRPKNAGTNGAISTGKTSNGNSIS
SEQ ID NO: 147
R communis SAD nt sequence; UTEX 250 SAD transit peptide underlined
atggccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgcccagc
gaggcccctccccgtgcgcgggcgcgccgcctccaccctgaagtccggctccaaggaggtggagaacctgaagaagcccttcatg
ccccccc gcgaggtgcac gtgc aggtgacccactccatgcccccccagaag ate gagatcttcaagtccctggacaactgggccga
ggagaacatcctggtgcacctgaagcccgtggagaagtgctggcagccccaggacttcctgcccgaccccgcctccgacggcttcg
acgagcaggtgcgcgagctgcgcgagcgcgccaaggagatccccgacgactacttcgtggtgctggtgggcgacatgatcaccga
ggaggccctgcccacctaccagaccatgctgaacaccctggacggcgtgcgcgacgagaccggcgcctcccccacctcctgggcc
atctggacccgcgcctggaccgccgaggagaaccgccacggcgacctgctgaacaagtacctgtacctgtccggccgcgtggaca
tgcgccagatcgagaagaccatccagtacctgatcggctccggcatggacccccgcaccgagaactccccctacctgggcttcatct
acacctccttccaggagcgcgccaccttcatctcccacggcaacaccgcccgccaggccaaggagcacggcgacatcaagctggc
ccagatctgcggcaccatcgccgccgacgagaagcgccacgagaccgcctacaccaagatcgtggagaagctgttcgagatcgac
cccgacggcaccgtgctggccttcgccgacatgatgcgcaagaagatctccatgcccgcccacctgatgtacgacggccgcgacga
caacctgttcgaccacttctccgccgtggcccagcgcctgggcgtgtacaccgccaaggactacgccgacatcctggagttcctggtg
ggccgctggaaggtggacaagctgaccggcctgtccgccgagggccagaaggcccaggactacgtgtgccgcctgcccccccgc
atccgccgcctggaggagcgcgcccagggccgcgccaaggaggcccccaccatgcccttctcctggatcttcgaccgccaggtga
agctgatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagtga
SEQ ID NO: 148
R communis SAD aa sequence; UTEX 250 SAD transit peptide underlined
MATASTFSAFNARCGDLRRSAGSGPRRPARPLPVRGRAASTLKSGSKEVENLKKPFMPPR
                                             294

EVHVQVTHSMPPQKIEIFKSLDNW AEENILVHLKPVEKCWQPQDFLPDPASDGFDEQVRE
LRERAKEIPDDYFVVLVGDMITEEALPTYQTMLNTLDGVRDETGASPTSWAIWTRAWTAE
ENRHGDLLNKYLYLSGRVDMRQIEKTIQYLIGSGMDPRTENSPYLGFIYTSFQERATFIS
HGNTARQAKEHGDIKLAQICGTIAADEKRHETAYTKIVEKLFEIDPDGTVLAFADMMRKK
ISMPAHLMYDGRDDNLFDHFSAVAQRLGVYTAKDY ADILEFLVGRWKVDKLTGLSAEGQK
AQDYVCRLPPRIRRLEERAQGRAKEAPTMPFSWIFDRQVKLMDYKDHDGDYKDHDIDYKD
DDDK
SEQ ID NO: 149
Nucleotide sequence of transforming DNA contained in pSZ1503_[KASII_btub-y.inv-
nr_KASII]
accccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgc
aaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactc
cgctaag gcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaac c c ccATGctgctgcaggccttcctgttcctgctgg
ccggcttcgccgccaagatcagcgcctccatgacgaacgagacgtccgaccgccccctggtgcacttcacccccaacaagggct
ggatgaacgaccccaacggcctgtggtacgacgagaaggacgccaagtggcacctgtacttccagtacaacccgaacgacac
cgtctgggggacgcccttgttctggggccacgccacgtccgacgacctgaccaactgggaggaccagcccatcgccatcgcccc
gaagcgcaacgactccggcgccttctccggctccatggtggtggactacaacaacacctccggcttcttcaacgacaccatcgac
ccgcgccagcgctgcgtggccatctggacctacaacaccccggagtccgaggagcagtacatctcctacagcctggacggcgg
ctacaccttcaccgagtaccagaagaaccccgtgctggccgccaactccacccagttccgcgacccgaaggtcttctggtacgag
ccctcccagaagtggatcatgaccgcggccaagtcccaggactacaagatcgagatctactcctccgacgacctgaagtcctgg
aagctggagtccgcgttcgccaacgagggcttcctcggctaccagtacgagtgccccggcctgatcgaggtccccaccgagcag
gaccccagcaagtcctactgggtgatgttcatctccatcaaccccggcgccccggccggcggctccttcaaccagtacttcgtcgg
cagcttcaacggcacccacttcgaggccttcgacaaccagtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaaggactactacgccctgcagacc
ttcttcaacaccgacccgacctacgggagcgccctgggcatcgcgtgggcctccaactgggagtactccgccttcgtgcccacca
acccctggcgctcctccatgtccctcgtgcgcaagttctccctcaacaccgagtaccaggccaacccggagacggagctgatcaa
cctgaaggccgagccgatcctgaacatcagcaacgccggcccctggagccggttcgccaccaacaccacgttgacgaaggcc
aacagctacaacgtcgacctgtccaacagcaccggcaccctggagttcgagctggtgtacgccgtcaacaccacccagacgatc
tccaagtccgtgttcgcggacctctccctctggttcaagggcctggaggaccccgaggagtacctccgcatgggcttcgaggtgtc
cgcgtcctccttcttcctggaccgcgggaacagcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggagaacccctacttcaccaaccgcatgagcgtg
aacaaccagcccttcaagagcgagaacgacctgtcctactacaaggtgtacggcttgctggaccagaacatcctggagctgtact
tcaacgacggcgacgtcgtgtccaccaacacctacttcatgaccaccgggaacgccctgggctccgtgaacatgacgacgggg
gtggacaacctgttctacatcgacaagttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTGAcaattggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgac
acactctggac gctggtc gtgtgatggactgttgcc gccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgcc gcttttatcaaacagcct
cagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgttt
catatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagc
cttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatggga
acacaaatggaggatcgtagagctcatcttccgaaagtacgacgagtgagcgagctgattctctttgagcggggtcgggtggttc
ggggagagtgcgcggaaaggcgcagagacgtgcggccggccgtgtccctccgtcttcccctggttggtgctatagtaacctgc
ctgtgtcgcgtgcgcgtcgggaagagc
SEQ ID NO: 150
B. braunii malate dehydrogenase S'UTR
aattggaaaccccgcgcaagaccgggttgtttggccgcctgaccggaaagggggggcctgtcccgaagggggtctatctcttgggg
gatgtcgggcgcggaaagtcgatgttgatggacctcttcttcgaccatgtcggggtcgaggccaagagccgcgtccatttcgccgagt
                                              295

tcatgatggaggtgaatgaccgcatcgccaccgaacgcgccaagaagcgggcgaccgatcgcccccgtcgctgcagcccttgccg
aggaagtccggctgctggcgttcgacgagatgatggtgacgaacagcccggacgcgatgatcctgtcgcggctgttcaccgcgctg
atcgaggcgggggtgacgatcgtcaccacctccaaccggccgcccagggatctctataagaacgggctcaaccgcgagcatttcct
gcccttcatcgcgctgatcgaggcgcggctggacgtgctggcgctgaacggcccgaccgactatcggcgcgaccggctggggcg
gctggacacgtggttggtgcccaatggccccaaggcgacgattaccttgtcggcggcgttcttccgcctgaccgactatccggtcgag
gatgccgcgcatgtgccctctgaggacctgaaggtgggcgggcgcgtgctgaatgtccccaaggcgctgaagggcgtcgcggtctt
ctcgttcaagcggttgtgcggcgaagcgcggggggcggcggactatctggcggtcgcgcggggcttccacaccgtcatcctggtcg
gaatccccaagctgggggcggagaaccgcaacgaggcggggcgcttcgtccagctgatcgacgcgctctacgaacataaggtcaa
gctgctcgccgcagccgatgccagcccgccgaactctatgaaaccggcgacggccggttcgagtttgagcgcagatcagccggttg
gaagagatgcgctccgaggattatctggcccaaggccatggctcggaggggccttgatcaggccttaatgcacttcgcaaccattatc
gtttaaaatcttaaactctgtggaataacggttccccgacgccgcaatacacgtacgtccactacggagtaggattgga
SEQ ID NO: 151
Chlamydomonas RBCS2 promoter
cgcttagaagatttcgataaggcgccagaaggagcgcagccaaaccaggatgatgtttgatggggtatttgagcacttgcaacccttat
ccggaagccccctggcccacaaaggctaggcgccaatgcaagcagttcgcatgcagcccctggagcggtgccctcctgataaacc
ggccagggggcctatgttctttacttttttacaagagaagtcactcaacatcttaaacggtcttaagaagtctatccgg
SEQ ID NO: 152
CMV-Hyg-CMV BamHI-Sacll cassette from pCAMBIA
ggatccccgggaattcggcgcgccgggcccaacatggtggagcacgacactctcgtctactccaagaatatcaaagatacagtctca
gaagaccaaagggctattgagacttttcaacaaagggtaatatcgggaaacctcctcggattccattgcccagctatctgtcacttcatca
aaaggacagtagaaaaggaaggtggcacctacaaatgccatcattgcgataaaggaaaggctatcgttcaagatgcctctgccgaca
gtggtcccaaagatggacccccacccacgaggagcatcgtggaaaaagaagacgttccaaccacgtcttcaaagcaagtggattgat
gtgataacatggtggagcacgacactctcgtctactccaagaatatcaaagatacagtctcagaagaccaaagggctattgagacttttc
aacaaagggtaatatcgggaaacctcctcggattccattgcccagctatctgtcacttcatcaaaaggacagtagaaaaggaaggtgg
cacctacaaatgccatcattgcgataaaggaaaggctatcgttcaagatgcctctgccgacagtggtcccaaagatggacccccaccc
acgaggagcatcgtggaaaaagaagacgttccaaccacgtcttcaaagcaagtggattgatgtgatatctccactgacgtaagggatg
acgcacaatcccactatccttcgcaagaccttcctctatataaggaagttcatttcatttggagaggacacgctgaaatcaccagtctctct
ctacaaatctatctctctcgagctttcgcagatcccggggggcaatgagatatgaaaaagcctgaactcaccgcgacgtctgtcgagaa
gtttctgatcgaaaagttcgacagcgtctccgacctgatgcagctctcggagggcgaagaatctcgtgctttcagcttcgatgtaggag
ggcgtggatatgtcctgcgggtaaatagctgcgccgatggtttctacaaagatcgttatgtttatcggcactttgcatcggccgcgctccc
gattccggaagtgcttgacattggggagtttagcgagagcctgacctattgcatctcccgccgtgcacagggtgtcacgttgcaagacc
tgcctgaaaccgaactgcccgctgttctacaaccggtcgcggaggctatggatgcgatcgctgcggccgatcttagccagacgagcg
ggttcggcccattcggaccgcaaggaatcggtcaatacactacatggcgtgatttcatatgcgcgattgctgatccccatgtgtatcact
ggcaaactgtgatggacgacaccgtcagtgcgtccgtcgcgcaggctctcgatgagctgatgctttgggccgaggactgccccgaa
gtccggcacctcgtgcacgcggatttcggctccaacaatgtcctgacggacaatggccgcataacagcggtcattgactggagcgag
gcgatgttcggggattcccaatacgaggtcgccaacatcttcttctggaggccgtggttggcttgtatggagcagcagacgcgctactt
cgagcggaggcatccggagcttgcaggatcgccacgactccgggcgtatatgctccgcattggtcttgaccaactctatcagagcttg
gttgacggcaatttcgatgatgcagcttgggcgcagggtcgatgcgacgcaatcgtccgatccggagccgggactgtcgggcgtaca
caaatcgcccgcagaagcgcggccgtctggaccgatggctgtgtagaagtactcgccgatagtggaaaccgacgccccagcactc
gtccgagggcaaagaaatagagtagatgccgaccggatctgtcgatcgacaagctcgagtttctccataataatgtgtgagtagttccc
agataagggaattagggttcctatagggtttcgctcatgtgttgagcatataagaaacccttagtatgtatttgtatttgtaaaatacttctatc
aataaaatttctaattcctaaaaccaaaatccagtactaaaatccagatcccccgaattaattcggcgttaattcagtacattaaaaacgtcc
gcaatgtgttattaagttgtctaagcgtcaatttgtttacaccacaatatatcctgccaccagccagccaacagctccccgaccggcagct
cggcacaaaatcaccactcgatacaggcagcccatcagtccgggacggcgtcagcgggagagccgttgtaaggcggcagactttg
                                              296

ctcatgttaccgatgctattcggaagaacggcaactaagctgccgggtttgaaacacggatgatctcgcggagggtagcatgttgattg
taacgatgacagagcgttgctgcctgtgatcaccgcgg
SEQ ID NO: 153
CAACCACGTCTTCAAAGCAA
SEQ ID NO: 154
AGCAATCGCGCATATGAAAT
SEQ ID NO: 155
Endogenous Chlorella protothecoides actin promoter and 5'UTR
GAATTCGAGTTTAGGTCCAGCGTCCGTGGGGGGGGACGGGCTGGGAGCTTGGGC
CGGGAAGGGCAAGACGATGCAGTCCCTCTGGGGAGTCACAGCCGACTGTGTGTG
TTGCACTGTGCGGCCCGCAGCACTCACACGCAAAATGCCTGGCCGACAGGCAGG
CCCTGTCCAGTGCAACATCCACGGTCCCTCTCATCAGGCTCACCTTGCTCATTGAC
ATAACGGAATGCGTACCGCTCTTTCAGATCTGTCCATCCAGAGAGGGGAGCAGG
CTCCCCACCGACGCTGTCAAACTTGCTTCCTGCCCAACCGAAAACATTATTGTTT
GAGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGCAGATTGCATGGCGGGATATCTCGTGAGGAACAT
CACTGGGACACTGTGGAACACAGTGAGTGCAGTATGCAGAGCATGTATGCTAGG
GGTCAGCGCAGGAAGGGGGCCTTTCCCAGTCTCCCATGCCACTGCACCGTATCCA
CGACTCACCAGGACCAGCTTCTTGATCGGCTTCCGCTCCCGTGGACACCAGTGTG
TAGCCTCTGGACTCCAGGTATGCGTGCACCGCAAAGGCCAGCCGATCGTGCCGAT
TCCTGGGGTGGAGGATATGAGTCAGCCAACTTGGGGCTCAGAGTGCACACTGGG
GCACGATACGAAACAACATCTACACCGTGTCCTCCATGCTGACACACCACAGCTT
CGCTCCACCTGAATGTGGGCGCATGGGCCCGAATCACAGCCAATGTCGCTGCTGC
CATAATGTGATCCAGACCCTCTCCGCCCAGATGCCGAGCGGATCGTGGGCGCTGA
ATAGATTCCTGTTTCGATCACTGTTTGGGTCCTTTCCTTTTCGTCTCGGATGCGCG
TCTCGAAACAGGCTGCGTCGGGCTTTCGGATCCCTTTTGCTCCCTCCGTCACCATC
CTGCGCGCGGGCAAGTTGCTTGACCCTGGGCTGGTACCAGGGTTGGAGGGTATTA
CCGCGTCAGGCCATTCCCAGCCCGGATTCAATTCAAAGTCTGGGCCACCACCCTC
CGCCGCTCTGTCTGATCACTCCACATTCGTGCATACACTACGTTCAAGTCCTGATC
CAGGCGTGTCTCGGGACAAGGTGTGCTTGAGTTTGAATCTCAAGGACCCACTCCA
GCACAGCTGCTGGTTGACCCCGCCCTCGCAACTCCCTACCATGTCTGCTGgtaggtcca
gggatctttgccatgcacacaggaccccgtttgtgggggtccccggtgcatgctgtcgctgtgcaggcgccggtgtggggcctgggc
cccgcgggagctcaactcctccccatatgcctgccgtccctcccacccaccgcgacctggccccctttgcagAGGAAGGCGA
AGTCAGCGCCATCGTGTGCGATAATGGATCCGG
SEQ ID NO: 156
Endogenous Chlorella protothecoides EFla promoter and 5'UTR
GAATTCGCCCTTGAGTTTAGGTCCAGCGTCCGTGGGGGGGGCGTGAGACTCCCCC
CTGACCTTCGTATGGCAGGGACTCCTACTTGCCAAGTAATCAGTTGACAATGCCA
CTTCAATGCTCGTTGTGGTACACTGACGCGGGTCTAACATACTGGGAAGCATGAA
TTGCCGACATGGACTCAGTTGGAGACAGTAACAGCTCTTTGTGTTCTATCTTCAG
GAACACATTTGGCAGCGCACCCATACAGTGGCGCACACGCAGCTGTACCTGATG
TGGCTCTATTCCCACATGTTTCAACTTGATCCAAAAGTCACTCAGACTCTCAGCA
GCTAGACTTGATCGCATCTTTGGCCATGAAGATGCTTGCGCAACTCTAGGAATGG
                                            297

GACGAGAAAAGAGCCTGCTCTGATCGGATATTTCCATTCTCTGGATGGGACTGAG
ATGATTCTGAAGAAATGCTGCTCGACTTATTTGGAAGAACAGCACCTGACGCATG
CTTTGAGGCTGCTGTGGCTGGGATGTGCTGTATTTGTCAGCATTGAGCATCTACG
GGTAGATGGCCATAACCACGCGCTGCCTATCATGCGGTGGGTTGTGTGGAAAAC
GTACAATGGACAGAAATCAATCCCATTGCGAGCCTAGCGTGCAGCCATGCGCTC
CCTCTGTAGCCCCGCTCCAAGACAAAGCCAGCCAATGCCAGAACCCACATAGAG
AGGGTATCTTCCTAATGACCTCGCCCATCATTTCCTCCAAATTAACTATAATGCCT
TGATTGTGGAGTTGGCTTTGGCTTGCAGCTGCTCGCGCTGGCACTTTTGTAGGCA
GCACAGGGTATGCCAGCGCCGAACTTTGTGCCCTTGAGCAGGCCACAAGGGCAC
AAGACTACACCATGCAGCTGGTATACTTGGAACTGATACCATTCTTACCAAGCAA
GGCACAGCACAGCCTGCACCGACTCACTTTGCTTGAGCGGGGCACAGCGCCGCG
ACTGATCCTGCGAGCTGTGGGGAGTTCCGACTGTTCTGGACCTCGGTCTCTGAAA
GATGTGTACGATGGGATCAAGTCATTCAAGTATGCTCTTCACATGAGCAATCGGG
GGAGACACGGTGGCCCTAAAGGTGTTCATCTGATTCAAGTGTAGTGGGGGGGTG
CTGTTTGTCCCGGGGCGCCCCCCGCTCCCCGACCCCGGAGAAGGGCCCCAGAGG
ACTCGGCCGCCCACAGAGGAATAACCGGGCGTGGCTCGGCCCTGCGCCTCCCTCT
TTCAATATTTCACCTGGTGTTCAGTGCACGGACACGTAAAGAACTAGATACAATG
GCCGAGGGAAAGACGgtgagagcttggcgttggtggaccgggcagcatcagaaactcctcttccccgcccgccttgaaa
ctcactgtaactccctcctcttccccctcgcagCATCTGTCTATCGTTATCgtgagtgaaagggactgccatgtgtcgggt
cgttgaccacggtcggctcgggcgctgctgcccgcgtcgcgaacgttccctgcaaacgccgcgcagccgtccctttttctgccgccg
ccccaccccctcgctccccccttcaatcacaccgcagTGCGGA CATGTCGATTCCGGCAAGTCCACC
SEQ ID NO: 157
Endogenous Chlorella protothecoides beta-tubulin promoter (isoform A)
GAATTCCCTGCAGGAAGAAGGCCGGCAGCAGCTGGTACTTGTCCTTCACCTCCTT
GATCGGCTGGGTGAGCTTGGCCGGGTCGCAGTCGTCGATGCCGGCATCGCCCAG
CACGCTGTGCGGGGAGCCGGCATCGACAACCTTGGCACTGCTCACCTTGGTCACC
GGCATGGGGTCATGGCGCTGCAGACCAGCGGCCTGTCAGCATGCTGCAGGCATC
TGTGTTTTGTAGTAGATACTTTCTGATGCATCACCACACGTTTGGAAGGTCCCCA
AGCCCCTTCAACAGTCTCGACATATGACACTCGCGCCCTCTTCCTCGTCCCGTGG
CCTGATGAGGGTACGCAGGTACCGCAGCTGCGCCCCGTCCCGCCAGTTGCCCTGG
CCCCGCCGGGCCCAATCTGTTCATTGCCGCTCCCTGGCAGCCGTGAACTTCACAC
TACCGCTCTCTGTGACCTTCAGCACAGCAGGAATCGCCATTTCACCGGCGGTCGT
TGCTGCGGAGCCTCAGCTGATCTCGCCTGCGAGACCCCACAGTTTGAATTTGCGG
TCCCCACACAACCTCTGACGCC
SEQ ID NO: 158
Endogenous Chlorella protothecoides beta-tubulin promoter (isoform B)
GAATTCCCTCAGGAAGAAGGCCGGCAGCAGCTGGTACTTGTCCTTCACCTCCTTG
ATCGGCTGGGTGAGCTTCGCAGGATCGCAGTCGTCGATGCCGGCATCGCCCAGC
ACGCTGTGCGGGGAGCCGGCATCNACAACCTTGGCACTGCTCCCCTTGGTCACCG
GCATGGGGTCATGGCGCTGCAGCCCAGCGGCCTGTCAGCATGCTGCAGGCATCT
GTGTATTGTAGTAGGTACTTCCTGATGCATCAACACACGTTTGGAAGCTCCCCAA
GCCCCTTCAACAGTCTCGACGTATGACACTCGCGCCCTCTTCCTCGCCCCGTGGC
CTGATGAGGGTACGCAGGTACCACAGCTGCGCCCCGTCCCGCCAGTTGCCCTGGC
CCGGCCGGGCCCAATCTGTTCATTGCCGCTCCCTGGTAGCCGTGAACTCACATTA
CCGCTCTCTGTGACCTTCAGCACAGCAGGAATCGCCATTTCACCGGCGGTCGTTG
                                           298

CTGCGGAGCCTCAGCTGATCTCGCCTGCGAGACCCCACAGT1TGAATTTGCGGTC
CCCACACAACCTCTGACGCC
SEQ ID NO: 159
Acyl ACP desaturase
atcaaaggcatagattcacatttgttggcattgcagagcaatcatcgcgcaggacgaacatcgctcaccaagcacgtactgggcatcc
ggaggcctccgcaaattcctgcaacaggactcgctgatcagttcgcccaaggtctacgacgctccctatcggcgctagacttcaacac
atatttcactgtcacagcctcggcATGCATCAGGCCTCAGTCTCCACCATGAAGACCATCCAGTC
TCGGCACGCCGGTCCCATCGGACATGTGCAGTCGGGTCGCCGATCGGCGGGGCG
CGCGGGATCCCGCATGGCGACCCCCGTGGCCGCAGCTACCGTCGCAGCCCCTCGC
TCGGCCCTCAACCTCTCCCCCACCATCATTCGACAGGAGGTGCTCCACTCCGCCA
GCGCCCAGCAACTAGACTGCGTGGCCTCCCTGGCGCCCGTCTTCGAGTCCCAGAT
CCTCCCCCTCCTGACGCCCGTGGACGAGATGTGGCAGCCCACCGACTTCCTCCCC
GCCTCGAACTCGGAGGCATTC1TCGACCAGATCGGCGACCTGCGGGCGCGATCG
GCGGCCATCCCCGACGACCTGCTGGTCTGCCTGGTGGGGGACATGATCACGGAG
GAGGCCCTGCCCACCTACATGGCCATGCTGAACACCCTGGACGTCGTGCGCGATG
AGACAGGGCACAGCCAGCACCCCTACGCCAAGTGGACCAGGGCTTGGATCGCGG
AGGAGAACCGCCATGGCGACCTGCTGAACAAGTACATGTGGCTGACGGGGCGGG
TGGGACATGCTGGCGGTGGAGCGCACCATCCAGCCATGCTGGCGGTGGAGCGCA
CCATCCAGCGCCTCATCTCATCGGGCATGGACCCGGGCACGGAGAACCACCCCT
ACCACGCCTTTGTGTTCACCAGCTTCCAGGAGCGCGCCACCAAGCTGAGCCACGG
CTCCACCGCCCGCCTGGCGGTCGCCGCCGGGGACGAGGCCCTGGCCAAGATCTG
CGGGACCATTGCGCGGGACGAGTCGCGCCACGAGGCGGCGTACACGCGGACCAT
GGATGCCATCTTCCAGCGCGACCCCAGCGGGGCCATGGTGGCGTTTGCGCACATG
ATGATGCGCAAGATCACCATGCCCGCCCACCTCATGGACGACGGCCAGCACGGC
GCGCGCAACGGGGGGGCGCAAC1TGTTCGACGACT1TGCGGCAGTGGCGGAGCG
GGCAGGGGTGTACACCGCCGGCGACTACATCGGCATCCTGCGCCACCTCATCCG
GCGCTGGGACGTGGAGGG
SEQ ID NO: 160
Acyl ACP desaturase
MHQASVSTMKTIQSRHAGPIGHVQSGRRSAGRAGSRMATPVAAA TVAAPRSALNLS
PTIIRQEVLHSASAQQLDCVASLAPVFESQILPLLTPVDEMWQPTDFLPASNSEAFFDQ
IGDLRARSAAIPDDLLVCLVGDMITEEALPTYMAMLNTLDVVRDETGHSQHPYAKW
TRAWIAEENRHGDLLNKYMWLTGRVGHAGGGAHHPAMLAVERTIQRLISSGMDPG
TENHPYHAFVFTSFQERATKLSHGSTARLAVAAGDEALAKICGTIARDESRHEAAYT
RTMDAIFQRDPSGAMV AFAHMMMRKITMPAHLMDDGQHGARNGGAQLVRRLCGS
GGAGRGVHRRRLHRHPAPPHPALGRGG
SEQ ID NO: 161
Geranyl geranyl diphosphate synthase
attatacatcggcatcgtctcaggtttcacgatctgcatgctatctatgggactgtgactccgccggccaggttgtggtgcgcgagaatc
ctccccgctcctgccttctcatttccctgacgggagtcgccgctgagcaccgggcggatcATGGGCGTCGGCACACT
CCAAACCCCATATACATGTGGTCGTGCATTCACGCATAGCGCACGGTATGTCCCG
CGACGCGCGGCTCGAAGCCGTGGCCATCCGACGCGCTGCACGGCCGAGGTGAGG
GCACGCCCCTCCGCCAATGGCGCGCAGCCCATGACCGCCTTCGAC1TCCGGCAGT
ACATGCAGCAGCGCGCCGCGCTGGTGGACGCAGCGCTGGACCTGGCAGTGCCGC
                                              299

TGCAGTACCCCGAGAAGATCAACGAGGCCATGCGGTACAGCCTGCTGGCCGGGG
GCAAGCGCGTGCGCCCCGCGCTCTGCCTCGCTGCCTGCGAGCTCGTGGGCGGCCC
CCTGGAGGCGGCCATGCCCGCCGCCTGCGCCATGGAGATGATCCACACCATGAG
CCTCATCCACGACGACCTCCCCGCCATGGACAACGACGACTTCCGGCGCGGCCA
GCCCGCCAACCACAAGGCCTATGGCGAGGAGATTGCGATCCTGGCGGGCGACGC
GCTGCTGTCGCTGAGCTTTGAGCACATCGCGCGCGAGACGCGAGGCGTGGACCC
GGTGCGCGTCCTGGCCGCCATCTCGGAGTGGCGCGCGGTGGGCAGCCGCGGGCT
GGTGGCGGGGCAGGTGGTGGACCTGGGTTTCGAGGGCGGCGGCGTGGGGCTGGC
CCCGCTGCGCTACATCCACGAGCACAAAACCGCGGCGCTGCTGGAGGCGGCGGT
GGTGTCCGGCGCGCTGCTGGGCGGCGCGGAGGAGGCGGACCTGGAGCGCCTGCG
CACCTACAACCGCGCCATCGGCCTCGCTTTCCAGGTGGTGGGGGACATCCTGGAC
ATCCCGGGGACCAGCGAGGAGCTGGGCAAGACCGCGGGCAAGGACCTGAGCTCC
CCCAAAACCCCCTACCCGTCCCTGGTGGGGCTGGCCAGGTCCAAAAAAATTGCG
GACGAACTGATTGAGGACGCGAAAACCCAACTCACCCAGTACGAGCCGGCCCGA
GCGGCGCCCCTCGTAACCCTGGCCGAAAACATTTGAaaccggaagaactgactgggggcccccc
ctgcccccagatacggcggggctcctccatccagttttgggatgggaggagcgacaaccgaccccgtaaccctgtgacgcgtttgcc
ttgcatacgtacgcatgccttgaaacccatccatgaccctcaacaatacctggttgtgtgtagcttggtcctgaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
aaaaaaaaaaa
SEQ ID NO: 162
Geranyl geranyl diphosphate synthase
MGVGTLQTPYTCGRAFfHSARYVPRRAARSRGHPTRCTAEVRARPSANGAQPMTAF
DFRQYMQQRAALVDAALDLAVPLQYPEKINEAMRYSLLAGGKRVRPALCLAACEL
VGGPLEAAMPAACAMEMIHTMSLIHDDLPAMDNDDFRRGQPANHKAYGEEIAILAG
DALLSLSFEHIARETRGVDPVRVLAAISEWRAVGSRGLVAGQVVDLGFEGGGVGLA
PLRYIHEHKTAALLEAAVVSGALLGGAEEADLERLRTYNRAIGLAFQVVGDILDIPGT
SEELGKTAGKDLSSPKTPYPSLVGLARSKKIADELIEDAKTQLTQYEPARAAPLVILA
ENI
SEQ ID NO: 163
Geranyl geranyl diphosphate synthase
cagatgccATGCGCCCTCGGGCCGCGGGCCTGAGGGTCCACGCAGCGTCCTCGGTGG
CCCAGACGCACCAGGCCGCCCCCCCGGCGGACAGGAGGTTCGACGACTACCAGC
CCCGCACCGCCATCCTCTTCCCCGGCCAGGGCGCGCAGAGCGTGGGCATGGCGG
GAGAGCTGGCGAAGGCCGTCCCCGCCGCCGCGGCGCTGTTCGACGCCGCCTCCG
ACCAGCTCGGCTATGACCTGCTCCGCGTGTGCGTTGAGGGCCCCAAGGCGCGCCT
GGACAGCACCGCCGTCAGCCAGCCCGCCATCTACGTGGCCAGCCTGGCGGCGGT
GGAGAAGCTGCGCGCGGAGGGCGGGGAGGAGGCACTGGCCGCCATCGACGTCG
CTGCCGGTCTGTCCTTGGGCGAGTACACCGCGCTGGCCTTTGCCGGCGCCTTCTC
CTTCGCCGACGGGCTGCGCCTGGTGGCCCTGCGCGGCGCCAGCATGCAGGCCGC
CGCCGACGCCGCACCCTCGGGCATGGTCTCCGTCATCGGTCTGCCCTCCGACGCG
GTGGCCGCGCTGTGCGAGGCCGCCAACGCGCAGGTGGCCCCCGACCAGGCCGTG
CGCATCGCCAACTACCTCTGCGACGGCAACTACGCCGTCAGCGGTGGGCTGGAG
GGCTGCGCGGCGGTGGAGGGCCTGGCCAAGGCCCACAAGGCGCGCATGACGGTG
CGCCTGGCGGTGGCGGGCGCCTTCCACACCCCCTTCATGCAGCCGGCGGTGGAG
GCGCTGAGCGCGGGCGCTGGCGGACACGCCGCTGGTCGCGCCGCGCATCCCCGT
GGTCAGCAACGGGACGCC
                                            300

SEQ ID NO: 164
Geranyl geranyl diphosphate synthase
MRPRAAGLRVHAASSVAQTHQAAPPADRRFDDYQPRTAILFPGQGAQSVGMAGEL
AKAVPAAAALFDAASDQLGYDLLRVCVEGPKARLDSTAVSQPAIYVASLAAVEKLR
AEGGEEALAAIDVAAGLSLGEYTALAFAGAFSFADGLRLVALRGASMQAAADAAPS
GMVSVIGLPSDAVAALCEAANAQV APDQA VRIANYLCDGNY AVSGGLEGCAA VEG
LAKAHKARMTVRLAVAGAFHTPFMQPAVEALSAGAGGHAAGRAAHPRGQQRDA
SEQ ID NO: 165
Gylceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase cDNA sequence
TGTCCATCTCCCCCCACCCTCCATCCAACCATCGTCGACGGCATGCAGGCGCTGT
GTTCTCACCCCGCGTCCCTCACGGCGCGTGCGGTACCCCATGGGCGGGCCAGCCC
AGCACAGCGGGTGTCCAGCGCCGGCCCGGCCTACACCGGCCTGTCCCGGCACAC
CCTGGGCTGCCCCAGCACCCCCACCCTCCAGTCCCGCGCCGCGGTCCAGACCCGC
GGCTCCTCCTCCGGCTCCACCACGCGCATGACCACCACCGCCCAGCGCAAGATCA
AGGTGGCCATCAACGGGTTCGGCCGCATCGGCCGCCAGTTCCTGCGCTGCGTGGA
GGGGCGCGAGGACTCGCTGCTGGAGATCGTGGCCGTGAACGACTCCGGCGGCGT
GAAGCAGGCCAGCCACCTGCTCAAGTACGACTCCACCATGGGCACCTTCAACGC
CGACATCAAGATCTCGGGCGAGGGCACCTTCTCCGTCAACGGCCGCGACATCCG
CGTCGTCTCCTCCCGCGACCCCCTGGCCCTGCCCTGGGGCGAGCTGGGCGTGGAC
CTGGTGATCGAGGGGACGGGAGTGTTTGTGGACCGCAAGGGTGCCAGCAAGCAC
CTGCAGGCGGGGGCCAAGAAGGTCATCATCACCGCGCCGGCCAAGGGCTCCGAC
GTGCCCACCTACGTCATGGGCGTGAACGCGGACCAGTACTCCAACTCCGACGAC
ATCATCTCCAACGCCTCCTGCACCACCAACTGCCTGGCGCCCTTTGTCAAGGTGC
TCAACGACCGCTTCGGCATCGTGA
SEQ ID NO: 166
Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase
MQALCSHPASLTARAVPHGRASPAQRVSSAGPA YTGLSRHTLGCPSTPTLQSRAA VQ
TRGSSSGSTTRMTTTAQRKIKVAINGFGRIGRQFLRCVEGREDSLLEIVAVNDSGGVK
QASHLLKYDSTMGTFNADIKISGEGTFSVNGRDIRVVSSRDPLALPWGELGVDLVIEG
TGVFVDRKGASKHLQAGAKKVIITAPAKGSDVPTYVMGVNADQYSNSDDIISNASCT
TNCLAPFVKVLNDRFGIV
SEQ ID NO: 167
Oxygen Evolving Complex protein (OEE33) cDNA sequence
gatgttgagaatagtagcttgctgccttgtcgcc.filgcagagcgtgtgcgcgcagtcggtttcatgcaagggggccttcacccagtccc
tgcggaccccccgatgcagcaggagccagctcgtctgccgggctgatggcaaggccggagccttcatcaagaccgtaaagagcgg
tgctgccgctctggctgcctccctcctcctgtctgggggtgcgggcgcactgacctttgatgagctgcagggcctgacctacctgcag
gtgaagggctctggcatcgccaacacctgccccaccctgtctggcggctcctccaacatcaaggacctgaagagcgggacctactcc
gtcaacaagatgtgcctggagcccacgtccttcaaggtcaaggaggaggcacagttcaagaacggcgaggccgactttgtgcccac
caagctcgtcacgcgtctgacctacaccctggacgagatctctggccagatgaagatcgacggcagcggcggcgtggagttcaagg
aggaggatggcatcgactatgctgcagtcaccgtgcagcttccgggcggggagcgcgtgcccttcctcttcaccatcaaggagcttg
acgccaaggggactgccgacggcttcaagggcgagttcaccgtgccctcctaccgtgggtcctccttcctggaccccaagggccgc
ggcgcctccaccggctacgacaacgccgtggccctgcccgccgccggcgattccgaggagttggagaaggagaacaacaagtcc
accaaggctctgaagggggaggccatcttctccatcgccaaggtggacgccgggacaggggaggtggcgggcatctttgagt
                                             301

SEQ ID NO: 168
Oxygen Evolving Complex protein (OEE33)
MQSVCAQSVSCKGAFTQSLRTPRCSRSQLVCRADGKAGAFIKTVKSGAAALAASLL
LSGGAGALTFDELQGLTYLQVKGSGIANTCPTLSGGSSNIKDLKSGTYSVNKMCLEP
TSFKVKEEAQFKNGEADFVPTKLVTRLTYTLDEISGQMKIDGSGGVEFKEEDGIDY A
AVTVQLPGGERVPFLFTIKELDAKGTADGFKGEFTVPSYRGSSFLDPKGRGASTGYD
NA VALPAAGDSEELEKENNKSTKALKGEAIFSIAKVDAGTGEVAGIFE
SEQ ID NO: 169
Clp protease cDNA sequence
ataatcggaacccagctgcacgcaccatcagtgcggcagcf!tg_cagaccgtcgcagccagctatggcgtattggcgccctccggct
ccagcgtgacccggggctcgaccagcagcaagcagcacttcaccaccctcactcccttttccggcttcaggcgcctgaatcatgtgga
tcgggcggggcaggcggggtctgggagcccccagaccctgcagcaggccgtgggcaaggccgtgcgccggtcgcggggccgc
accaccagcgccgtgcgcgtgacccgcatgatgtttgagcggttcaccgagaaggccatcaaggtggtcatgctcgcgcaggagga
ggctcgccgtctgggccacaacttcgtggggacggagcaaatcctgctggggttgattggggagtccacaggcatcgccgccaagg
tcctcaagtcgatgggcgtcacgctgaaagatgcgcgtgtggaggtcgagaagatcatcggccgggggagcggctttgtggccgtg
gagatccccttcaccccccgcgccaagcgtgtgctggagctgtccctggaggaggctcgccagctcggccacaactacattggcac
ggagcacatcctgctgggcctgctgcgcgagggtgagggcgtggcctcccgcgtgctggagaccctgggcgccgacccccagaa
gatccgcactcaggtggtacgcatggtgggtgagtcgcaggagcccgtgggcaccacggtgggcggagggtccaccggctccaa
caagatgcccaccctggaggagtacggcaccaacctgaccgcccaggccg
SEQ ID NO: 170
Clp protease
MQTV AASYGVLAPSGSSVTRGSTSSKQHFTTLTPFSGFRRLNHVDRAGQAGSGSPQT
LQQA VGKAVRRSRGRTTSAVRVTRMMFERFTEKAIKVVMLAQEEARRLGHNFVGT
EQILLGLIGESTGIAAKVLKSMGVTLKDARVEVEKIIGRGSGFV AVEIPFTPRAKRVLE
LSLEEARQLGHNYIGTEHILLGLLREGEGVASRVLETLGADPQKIRTQVVRMVGESQ
EPVGTTVGGGSTGSNKMPTLEEYGTNLTAQA
SEQ ID NO: 171
TCCGGTGTGTTGTAAGTCCA
SEQ ID NO: 172
TTGTCGGAATGTCATATCAA
SEQ ID NO: 173
AACGCCTTTGTACAACTGCA
SEQ ID NO: 174
CTGACCCGACCTATGGGAGCGCTCTTGGC
SEQ ID NO: 175
                                           302

          CTTGACTTCCCTCACCTGGAATTTGTCG
          SEQ ID NO: 176
          GTGGCCATATGGACTTACAA
          SEQ ID NO: 177
          CAAGGGCTGGATGAATGACCCCAATGGACTGTGGTACGACG
,.......i
N         SEQ ID NO: 178
~
~         CACCCGTCGTCATGTTCACGGAGCCCAGTGCG
00
O         SEQ ID NO: 179
N         KE858 Homologous recombination construct SZ725
          GCCCTTTGTCATCGTTGGCATGCTTTTTGCGTATGTACCATATGTTGAATGTATAA
          TACGAACGGTTGACCGTCTGAGATGCGAGCTTTGGGTCTTGTCAAATGCGTGGCC
          GCACGGCTCCCTCGCACCCAGCCCCGAGGCGTCGCGCACCTGGCGAGGAGCAGA
          CCCACGCCAAGAAAGTCTAGTCCAGCATGTAACAACATCAGGCAATGTGACGTT
          TTCGGTTCCCGATTTCTCTGCCGCTCTTTGACGGCAGGCACGGGCGAGCAACCGG
          CGGCGCTCGCGTCAGGCACGATGGATGCGGCGCTGCCCACCTGTCAATGTACCCC
          ACCAGTCTGTCGATCGCTACAAGCAACCTTGTGCTCCACATTCCCACTTGCAGAC
          AGTCTAGTCGATTTTGCCAAGCTGGATGTGAGGATTGGCCATATCTTGGAGGCCA
          AGATTCACCCGGATGCTGATGGGTACGTACGCGAGCCAGGCAGGCAGCTGCGTT
          GACTTTCTGATTGGCACAAAGCTTTGGCTACTCTCAATACCAACCACGTGCCCCT
          TCTGCACACCTGCTTCCTTCTGATGACCACTCGCCACGCATGTCGCAGTCTGTACG
          TCGAGCAGATCGACCTCGGCGAGGAGGGGGGCCCTCGCACCATCGTGAGTGGCC
          TGGTCCGGCACGTGACCCTGGAGGACCTTGTCGGCCGGCGGGTGGTGGTGCTGG
          CCAACCTCAAGCCTCGGAGCATGCGCGGGGTCAAATCGGCTGGGATGCTGCTCT
          GCGCCGCCAACGCGGATCACACCGCGGTGGAGCCGCTGCGGGTCCCGGACGCCG
          CCGTGACGGGGGAGCGGGTCTGGGCGGGGGACGAGGCACTCCTGTCCACGGAGC
          CTGCCACACCCAATCAGGTAAGGACACGTTATTGGTGCGCATGGTGCGAATGCGT
          GGTCTGACCTGCTGTGGGTATGTGTTGTGGGATTGGAAACCGAATGAGGGCCGTT
          CAGGATTGAGCCCTTGGCCCCACCCTGCTCATCCTCTCACGCCCGCAGGTCCAGA
          AGAAGAAAATCTGGGAGGCAGTACAGCCGCTGCTGAGAGTGAACGCCCAGGGG
          ATCGCTACTGTGGCAGGAGAGGCTATGGTGACCAGTGCGGGGCCACTGACCGCG
          CCCACGCTGGTTGACGCCGCGATTTCCTGACGCGAGCGACTGATTCTTGACCTTT
          GAGAAGCCACCACAGCACCATTTTCATTGTTCATCCTTGATTTCAGTACGACTTCT
          CACCATTTCAGTACTGTAGGACCCCCAAAATAGTGTGATCACGCTCGCAAGGCAC
          CTGTGTGATCACGGGGAAGGGCGAATTCCTTTCTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCA
          AAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGA
          TGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCC
          AGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGA
          GCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACT
          CGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTTCAGTCAC
          AACCCGCAAACGGCGCGCCATGCTGCTGCAGGCCTTCCTGTTCCTGCTGGCCGGC
          TTCGCCGCCAAGATCAGCGCCTCCATGACGAACGAGACGTCCGACCGCCCCCTG
                                                  303

GTGCACTTCACCCCCAACAAGGGCTGGATGAACGACCCCAACGGCCTGTGGTAC
GACGAGAAGGACGCCAAGTGGCACCTGTACTTCCAGTACAACCCGAACGACACC
GTCTGGGGGACGCCCTTGTTCTGGGGCCACGCCACGTCCGACGACCTGACCAACT
GGGAGGACCAGCCCATCGCCATCGCCCCGAAGCGCAACGACTCCGGCGCCTTCT
CCGGCTCCATGGTGGTGGACTACAACAACACCTCCGGCTTCTTCAACGACACCAT
CGACCCGCGCCAGCGCTGCGTGGCCATCTGGACCTACAACACCCCGGAGTCCGA
GGAGCAGTACATCTCCTACAGCCTGGACGGCGGCTACACCTTCACCGAGTACCA
GAAGAACCCCGTGCTGGCCGCCAACTCCACCCAGTTCCGCGACCCGAAGGTCTTC
TGGTACGAGCCCTCCCAGAAGTGGATCATGACCGCGGCCAAGTCCCAGGACTAC
AAGATCGAGATCTACTCCTCCGACGACCTGAAGTCCTGGAAGCTGGAGTCCGCGT
TCGCCAACGAGGGCTTCCTCGGCTACCAGTACGAGTGCCCCGGCCTGATCGAGGT
CCCCACCGAGCAGGACCCCAGCAAGTCCTACTGGGTGATGTTCATCTCCATCAAC
CCCGGCGCCCCGGCCGGCGGCTCCTTCAACCAGTACTTCGTCGGCAGCTTCAACG
GCACCCACTTCGAGGCCTTCGACAACCAGTCCCGCGTGGTGGACTTCGGCAAGG
ACTACTACGCCCTGCAGACCTTCTTCAACACCGACCCGACCTACGGGAGCGCCCT
GGGCATCGCGTGGGCCTCCAACTGGGAGTACTCCGCCTTCGTGCCCACCAACCCC
TGGCGCTCCTCCATGTCCCTCGTGCGCAAGTTCTCCCTCAACACCGAGTACCAGG
CCAACCCGGAGACGGAGCTGATCAACCTGAAGGCCGAGCCGATCCTGAACATCA
GCAACGCCGGCCCCTGGAGCCGGTTCGCCACCAACACCACGTTGACGAAGGCCA
ACAGCTACAACGTCGACCTGTCCAACAGCACCGGCACCCTGGAGTTCGAGCTGG
TGTACGCCGTCAACACCACCCAGACGATCTCCAAGTCCGTGTTCGCGGACCTCTC
CCTCTGGTTCAAGGGCCTGGAGGACCCCGAGGAGTACCTCCGCATGGGCTTCGA
GGTGTCCGCGTCCTCCTTCTTCCTGGACCGCGGGAACAGCAAGGTGAAGTTCGTG
AAGGAGAACCCCTACTTCACCAACCGCATGAGCGTGAACAACCAGCCCTTCAAG
AGCGAGAACGACCTGTCCTACTACAAGGTGTACGGCTTGCTGGACCAGAACATC
CTGGAGCTGTACTTCAACGACGGCGACGTCGTGTCCACCAACACCTACTTCATGA
CCACCGGGAACGCCCTGGGCTCCGTGAACATGACGACGGGGGTGGACAACCTGT
TCTACATCGACAAGTTCCAGGTGCGCGAGGTCAAGTGATTAATTAACTCGAGGCA
GCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGT
TGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAG
CCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTG
CTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATC
CCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTG
CTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTG
CAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAA
CACAAATGGAAAGCTT
SEQ ID NO: 180
Homologous recombination construct SZ726
CCCGTGATCACACAGGTGCCTTGCGAGCGTGATCACACTATTTTGGGGGTCCTAC
AGTACTGAAATGGTGAGAAGTCGTACTGAAATCAAGGATGAACAATGAAAATGG
TGCTGTGGTGGCTTCTCAAAGGTCAAGAATCAGTCGCTCGCGTCAGGAAATCGCG
GCGTCAACCAGCGTGGGCGCGGTCAGTGGCCCCGCACTGGTCACCATAGCCTCTC
CTGCCACAGTAGCGATCCCCTGGGCGTTCACTCTCAGCAGCGGCTGTACTGCCTC
CCAGATTTTCTTCTTCTGGACCTGCGGGCGTGAGAGGATGAGCAGGGTGGGGCCA
AGGGCTCAATCCTGAACGGCCCTCATTCGGTTTCCAATCCCACAACACATACCCA
CAGCAGGTCAGACCACGCATTCGCACCATGCGCACCAAATAACGTGTCCTTACCT
GATTGGGTGTGGCAGGCTCCGTGGACAGGAGTGCCTCGTCCCCCGCCCAGACCC
GCTCCCCCGTCACGGCGGCGTCCGGGACCCGCAGCGGCTCCACCGCGGTGTGATC
                                         304

CGCGTTGGCGGCGCAGAGCAGCATCCCAGCCGATTTGACCCCGCGCATGCTCCG
AGGCTTGAGGTTGGCCAGCACCACCACCCGCCGGCCGACAAGGTCCTCCAGGGT
CACGTGCCGGACCAGGCCACTCACGATGGTGCGAGGGCCCCCCTCCTCGCCGAG
GTCGATCTGCTCGACGTACAGACTGCGACATGCGTGGCGAGTGGTCATCAGAAG
GAAGCAGGTGTGCAGAAGGGGCACGTGGTTGGTATTGAGAGTAGCCAAAGCTTT
GTGCCAATCAGAAAGTCAACGCAGCTGCCTGCCTGGCTCGCGTACAATTCCTTTC
TTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGGGCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTTCCCG
GCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTTCGACCCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGC
ATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGCGCTGTTTAAATAGCCAGGCCCCC
GATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAAGCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCA
CTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGTGATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCG
CCTCTTCCTCTTCGTTTCAGTCACAACCCGCAAACGGCGCGCCATGCTGCTGCAG
GCCTTCCTGTTCCTGCTGGCCGGCTTCGCCGCCAAGATCAGCGCCTCCATGACGA
ACGAGACGTCCGACCGCCCCCTGGTGCACTTCACCCCCAACAAGGGCTGGATGA
ACGACCCCAACGGCCTGTGGTACGACGAGAAGGACGCCAAGTGGCACCTGTACT
TCCAGTACAACCCGAACGACACCGTCTGGGGGACGCCCTTGTTCTGGGGCCACGC
CACGTCCGACGACCTGACCAACTGGGAGGACCAGCCCATCGCCATCGCCCCGAA
GCGCAACGACTCCGGCGCCTTCTCCGGCTCCATGGTGGTGGACTACAACAACACC
TCCGGCTTCTTCAACGACACCATCGACCCGCGCCAGCGCTGCGTGGCCATCTGGA
CCTACAACACCCCGGAGTCCGAGGAGCAGTACATCTCCTACAGCCTGGACGGCG
GCTACACCTTCACCGAGTACCAGAAGAACCCCGTGCTGGCCGCCAACTCCACCCA
GTTCCGCGACCCGAAGGTCTTCTGGTACGAGCCCTCCCAGAAGTGGATCATGACC
GCGGCCAAGTCCCAGGACTACAAGATCGAGATCTACTCCTCCGACGACCTGAAG
TCCTGGAAGCTGGAGTCCGCGTTCGCCAACGAGGGCTTCCTCGGCTACCAGTACG
AGTGCCCCGGCCTGATCGAGGTCCCCACCGAGCAGGACCCCAGCAAGTCCTACT
GGGTGATGTTCATCTCCATCAACCCCGGCGCCCCGGCCGGCGGCTCCTTCAACCA
GTACTTCGTCGGCAGCTTCAACGGCACCCACTTCGAGGCCTTCGACAACCAGTCC
CGCGTGGTGGACTTCGGCAAGGACTACTACGCCCTGCAGACCTTCTTCAACACCG
ACCCGACCTACGGGAGCGCCCTGGGCATCGCGTGGGCCTCCAACTGGGAGTACT
CCGCCTTCGTGCCCACCAACCCCTGGCGCTCCTCCATGTCCCTCGTGCGCAAGTTC
TCCCTCAACACCGAGTACCAGGCCAACCCGGAGACGGAGCTGATCAACCTGAAG
GCCGAGCCGATCCTGAACATCAGCAACGCCGGCCCCTGGAGCCGGTTCGCCACC
AACACCACGTTGACGAAGGCCAACAGCTACAACGTCGACCTGTCCAACAGCACC
GGCACCCTGGAGTTCGAGCTGGTGTACGCCGTCAACACCACCCAGACGATCTCCA
AGTCCGTGTTCGCGGACCTCTCCCTCTGGTTCAAGGGCCTGGAGGACCCCGAGGA
GTACCTCCGCATGGGCTTCGAGGTGTCCGCGTCCTCCTTCTTCCTGGACCGCGGG
AACAGCAAGGTGAAGTTCGTGAAGGAGAACCCCTACTTCACCAACCGCATGAGC
GTGAACAACCAGCCCTTCAAGAGCGAGAACGACCTGTCCTACTACAAGGTGTAC
GGCTTGCTGGACCAGAACATCCTGGAGCTGTACTTCAACGACGGCGACGTCGTGT
CCACCAACACCTACTTCATGACCACCGGGAACGCCCTGGGCTCCGTGAACATGAC
GACGGGGGTGGACAACCTGTTCTACATCGACAAGTTCCAGGTGCGCGAGGTCAA
GTGATTAATTAACTCGAGGCAGCAGCAGCTCGGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGA
CGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACACTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATA
TCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTGTTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTT
TTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGAATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTC
CCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAACTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATC
CCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCCCTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCT
CCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAAACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGC
ACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGAAAGCTTGAGCTCGGTACCCGTA
CCCATCAGCATCCGGGTGAATCTTGGCCTCCAAGATATGGCCAATCCTCACATCC
                            305

AGCTIGGCAAAATCGACTAGACTGTCTGCAAGTGGGAATGTGGAGCACAAGGTI
GCTIGTAGCGATCGACAGACTGGTGGGGTACATIGACAGGTGGGCAGCGCCGCA
TCCATCGTGCCTGACGCGAGCGCCGCCGGTTGCTCGCCCGTGCCTGCCGTCAAAG
AGCGGCAGAGAAATCGGGAACCGAAAACGTCACATIGCCTGATGTIGTTACATG
CTGGACTAGACTTTCTTGGCGTGGGTCTGCTCCTCGCCAGGTGCGCGACGCCTCG
GGGCTGGGTGCGAGGGAGCCGTGCGGCCACGCATTIGACAAGACCCAAAGCTCG
CATCTCAGACGGTCAACCGTTCGTATTATACATTCAACATATGGTACATACGCAA
AAAGCATG
SEQ ID NO: 181
Homologous recombination: Targeting cassette for disruption of Prototheca moriformis
stearoyl ACP desaturase coding region (~-tubulin driven suc2 cassette)
TITGGCCCCGCTITCCAGCTCCGGATCTGCTGGCGTCCGCCGCGAGACGTGACAT
CGCACGTCGCCGGGAGCGCCAGCTIGATCACTIGGCAGGGGGCCGTGCTCTACA
AATACCAGGCCCCGCGGCGGTCAGTICGCACATCCAATACCTGCCGAGCCATCTI
GCCTACACTTTTIATCGACTCCTCTACTCTGTTCGCGAGAGCGCTCGGTCCAGGCT
TGGAATICGCCGAATTCAGCTCGATCAGTCGCTTCTGCAACTGATCTCGGCCGTT
CGCAGACTGCCTITTCTCAGCTIGTCAGGTAGCGAGTTGTIGTITTATATTTATTC
GATITCATCTGTGTIGCATGTCTTGTTCGTGCTGTGCGTTCTTTCTGGGCCGCGCT
GTCGGGTCGCATGGGCTAGCTGTACTCATGTTAGTCATGCCGGTCCGACCTTGTT
CGAGGAAGGCCCCACACTGAGCGTGCCCTCTTTCTACACCCCTTGTGCAGAAATT
AGATAGAAAGCAGAATICCTTTCTTGCGCTATGACACTTCCAGCAAAAGGTAGG
GCGGGCTGCGAGACGGCTICCCGGCGCTGCATGCAACACCGATGATGCTICGAC
CCCCCGAAGCTCCTTCGGGGCTGCATGGGCGCTCCGATGCCGCTCCAGGGCGAGC
GCTGTTIAAATAGCCAGGCCCCCGATTGCAAAGACATTATAGCGAGCTACCAAA
GCCATATTCAAACACCTAGATCACTACCACTTCTACACAGGCCACTCGAGCTTGT
GATCGCACTCCGCTAAGGGGGCGCCTCTTCCTCTICGTITCAGTCACAACCCGCA
AACGGCGCGCCATGCTGCTGCAGGCCTTCCTGTTCCTGCTGGCCGGCTTCGCCGC
CAAGATCAGCGCCTCCATGACGAACGAGACGTCCGACCGCCCCCTGGTGCACTTC
ACCCCCAACAAGGGCTGGATGAACGACCCCAACGGCCTGTGGTACGACGAGAAG
GACGCCAAGTGGCACCTGTACTTCCAGTACAACCCGAACGACACCGTCTGGGGG
ACGCCCTIGTTCTGGGGCCACGCCACGTCCGACGACCTGACCAACTGGGAGGAC
CAGCCCATCGCCATCGCCCCGAAGCGCAACGACTCCGGCGCCTTCTCCGGCTCCA
TGGTGGTGGACTACAACAACACCTCCGGCTICTICAACGACACCATCGACCCGCG
CCAGCGCTGCGTGGCCATCTGGACCTACAACACCCCGGAGTCCGAGGAGCAGTA
CATCTCCTACAGCCTGGACGGCGGCTACACCTTCACCGAGTACCAGAAGAACCCC
GTGCTGGCCGCCAACTCCACCCAGTTCCGCGACCCGAAGGTCTICTGGTACGAGC
CCTCCCAGAAGTGGATCATGACCGCGGCCAAGTCCCAGGACTACAAGATCGAGA
TCTACTCCTCCGACGACCTGAAGTCCTGGAAGCTGGAGTCCGCGTTCGCCAACGA
GGGCTTCCTCGGCTACCAGTACGAGTGCCCCGGCCTGATCGAGGTCCCCACCGAG
CAGGACCCCAGCAAGTCCTACTGGGTGATGTTCATCTCCATCAACCCCGGCGCCC
CGGCCGGCGGCTCCTTCAACCAGTACTTCGTCGGCAGCTTCAACGGCACCCACTI
CGAGGCCTTCGACAACCAGTCCCGCGTGGTGGACTTCGGCAAGGACTACTACGC
CCTGCAGACCTTCTTCAACACCGACCCGACCTACGGGAGCGCCCTGGGCATCGCG
TGGGCCTCCAACTGGGAGTACTCCGCCTICGTGCCCACCAACCCCTGGCGCTCCT
CCATGTCCCTCGTGCGCAAGTICTCCCTCAACACCGAGTACCAGGCCAACCCGGA
GACGGAGCTGATCAACCTGAAGGCCGAGCCGATCCTGAACATCAGCAACGCCGG
CCCCTGGAGCCGGTTCGCCACCAACACCACGTTGACGAAGGCCAACAGCTACAA
CGTCGACCTGTCCAACAGCACCGGCACCCTGGAGTTCGAGCTGGTGTACGCCGTC
                                            306

AACACCACCCAGACGATCTCCAAGTCCGTGTTCGCGGACCTCTCCCTCTGGTTCA
AGGGCCTGGAGGACCCCGAGGAGTACCTCCGCATGGGCTTCGAGGTGTCCGCGT
CCTCCTTCTTCCTGGACCGCGGGAACAGCAAGGTGAAGTTCGTGAAGGAGAACC
CCTACTTCACCAACCGCATGAGCGTGAACAACCAGCCCTTCAAGAGCGAGAACG
ACCTGTCCTACTACAAGGTGTACGGCTTGCTGGACCAGAACATCCTGGAGCTGTA
CTTCAACGACGGCGACGTCGTGTCCACCAACACCTACTTCATGACCACCGGGAAC
GCCCTGGGCTCCGTGAACATGACGACGGGGGTGGACAACCTGTTCTACATCGAC
AAGTTCCAGGTGCGCGAGGTCAAGTGATTAATTAACTCGAGGCAGCAGCAGCTC
GGATAGTATCGACACACTCTGGACGCTGGTCGTGTGATGGACTGTTGCCGCCACA
CTTGCTGCCTTGACCTGTGAATATCCCTGCCGCTTTTATCAAACAGCCTCAGTGTG
TTTGATCTTGTGTGTACGCGCTTTTGCGAGTTGCTAGCTGCTTGTGCTATTTGCGA
ATACCACCCCCAGCATCCCCTTCCCTCGTTTCATATCGCTTGCATCCCAACCGCAA
CTTATCTACGCTGTCCTGCTATCCCTCAGCGCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCACTGCCC
CTCGCACAGCCTTGGTTTGGGCTCCGCCTGTATTCTCCTGGTACTGCAACCTGTAA
ACCAGCACTGCAATGCTGATGCACGGGAAGTAGTGGGATGGGAACACAAATGGA
CCGACACGCCCCCGGCCCAGGTCCAGTTCTCCTGGGTCTTCCAGAGGCCCGTCGC
CATGTAAAGTGGCAGAGATTGGCGCCTGATTCGATTTGGATCCAAGGATCTCCAA
TCGGTGATGGGGACTGAGTGCCCAACTACCACCCTTGCACTATCGTCCTCGCACT
ATTTATTCCCACCTTCTGCTCGCCCTGCCGGGCGATTGCGGGCGTTTCTGCCCTTG
ACGTATCAATTTCGCCCCTGCTGGCGCGAGGATTCTTCATTCTAATAAGAACTCA
CTCCCGCCAGCTCTGTACTTTTCCTGCGGGGCCCCTGCATGGCTTGTTCCCAATGC
TTGCTCGATCGACGGCGCCCATTGCCCACGGCGCTGCCGCATCCATGTGAAGAAA
CACGGAAGAGTGCGAAGACTGGAAGTGAATTAAGAGTATAAGAAGAGGTACCA
AGGGATTCTCAGGTGCTCTTAGGAACGGCTTTTCCTTCGCCAAGAGAAACTGCTA
CTGCTCGTGTCGCCACGGTGGTCAAGCCGCCCCATCTGCGATCCACCAGGCCCAT
CCGCGGACTCGCGATCAGCCTGCTGGATCCGGACTGCCGACCTGACCGCTCGCAT
CCACCATTACAACCCTCCAATTGGACACCACTCCCACGTCCTAAAGTTCACCATG
CAAGCTGATCGATCGCATTCGCCGATGCACTCGCCTGCCACAGAGGTGTGCGCTT
CGGACTAGCGTGCAGGCGCCCCGAGGCCACCAGCATGCACCGATGGAAGCGGGC
ACGGCCGCTGCTCCAGGTCGCTGGCTCGCTCAGACCCATAGCAACCTCCGCTGCG
TCCCTAAATGTCACACAGAGCGTCTTTGATGGGTACGGATGGGAGAGAATCTGAT
TGGGCATTGCTGGTGCAGTGCAGGAAGATGGCAAGTGCACAGTCAGTCATGCTG
TACAAACTGGTGCCTCGTAGTATTGACTCGTATAGTGCATAGTATCATGCATGGT
CGTTACTTGCAA
SEQ ID NO: 182
Homologous recombination: Targeting cassette for disruption of Prototheca moriformis
stearoyl ACP desaturase coding region (suc2 cassette alone)
TTTGGCCCCGCTTTCCAGCTCCGGATCTGCTGGCGTCCGCCGCGAGACGTGA
CATCGCACGTCGCCGGGAGCGCCAGCTTGATCACTTGGCAGGGGGCCGTGCT
CTACAAATACCAGGCCCCGCGGCGGTCAGTTCGCACATCCAATACCTGCCGA
GCCATCTTGCCTACACTTTTTATCGACTCCTCTACTCTGTTCGCGAGAGCGCTC
GGTCCAGGCTTGGAATTCGCCGAATTCAGCTCGATCAGTCGCTTCTGCAACT
GATCTCGGCCGTTCGCAGACTGCCTTTTCTCAGCTTGTCAGGTAGCGAGTTGT
TGTTTTATATTTATTCGATTTCATCTGTGTTGCATGTCTTGTTCGTGCTGTGCGT
TCTTTCTGGGCCGCGCTGTCGGGTCGCATGGGCTAGCTGTACTCATGTTAGTC
ATGCCGGTCCGACCTTGTTCGAGGAAGGCCCCACACTGAGCGTGCCCTCTTT
                                            307

CTACACCCCTTGTGCAGAAATTAGATAGAAAGCAATGCTGCTGCAGGCCTTC
CTGTTCCTGCTGGCCGGCTTCGCCGCCAAGATCAGCGCCTCCATGACGAACG
AGACGTCCGACCGCCCCCTGGTGCACTTCACCCCCAACAAGGGCTGGATGA
ACGACCCCAACGGCCTGTGGTACGACGAGAAGGACGCCAAGTGGCACCTGT
ACTTCCAGTACAACCCGAACGACACCGTCTGGGGGACGCCCTTGTTCTGGGG
CCACGCCACGTCCGACGACCTGACCAACTGGGAGGACCAGCCCATCGCCAT
CGCCCCGAAGCGCAACGACTCCGGCGCCTTCTCCGGCTCCATGGTGGTGGAC
TACAACAACACCTCCGGCTTCTTCAACGACACCATCGACCCGCGCCAGCGCT
GCGTGGCCATCTGGACCTACAACACCCCGGAGTCCGAGGAGCAGTACATCT
CCTACAGCCTGGACGGCGGCTACACCTTCACCGAGTACCAGAAGAACCCCG
TGCTGGCCGCCAACTCCACCCAGTTCCGCGACCCGAAGGTCTTCTGGTACGA
GCCCTCCCAGAAGTGGATCATGACCGCGGCCAAGTCCCAGGACTACAAGAT
CGAGATCTACTCCTCCGACGACCTGAAGTCCTGGAAGCTGGAGTCCGCGTTC
GCCAACGAGGGCTTCCTCGGCTACCAGTACGAGTGCCCCGGCCTGATCGAG
GTCCCCACCGAGCAGGACCCCAGCAAGTCCTACTGGGTGATGTTCATCTCCA
TCAACCCCGGCGCCCCGGCCGGCGGCTCCTTCAACCAGTACTTCGTCGGCAG
CTTCAACGGCACCCACTTCGAGGCCTTCGACAACCAGTCCCGCGTGGTGGAC
TTCGGCAAGGACTACTACGCCCTGCAGACCTTCTTCAACACCGACCCGACCT
ACGGGAGCGCCCTGGGCATCGCGTGGGCCTCCAACTGGGAGTACTCCGCCTT
CGTGCCCACCAACCCCTGGCGCTCCTCCATGTCCCTCGTGCGCAAGTTCTCCC
TCAACACCGAGTACCAGGCCAACCCGGAGACGGAGCTGATCAACCTGAAGG
CCGAGCCGATCCTGAACATCAGCAACGCCGGCCCCTGGAGCCGGTTCGCCA
CCAACACCACGTTGACGAAGGCCAACAGCTACAACGTCGACCTGTCCAACA
GCACCGGCACCCTGGAGTTCGAGCTGGTGTACGCCGTCAACACCACCCAGA
CGATCTCCAAGTCCGTGTTCGCGGACCTCTCCCTCTGGTTCAAGGGCCTGGAG
GACCCCGAGGAGTACCTCCGCATGGGCTTCGAGGTGTCCGCGTCCTCCTTCTT
CCTGGACCGCGGGAACAGCAAGGTGAAGTTCGTGAAGGAGAACCCCTACTT
CACCAACCGCATGAGCGTGAACAACCAGCCCTTCAAGAGCGAGAACGACCT
GTCCTACTACAAGGTGTACGGCTTGCTGGACCAGAACATCCTGGAGCTGTAC
TTCAACGACGGCGACGTCGTGTCCACCAACACCTACTTCATGACCACCGGGA
ACGCCCTGGGCTCCGTGAACATGACGACGGGGGTGGACAACCTGTTCTACAT
CGACAAGTTCCAGGTGCGCGAGGTCAAGTGACCGACACGCCCCCGGCCCAG
GTCCAGTTCTCCTGGGTCTTCCAGAGGCCCGTCGCCATGTAAAGTGGCAGAG
ATTGGCGCCTGATTCGATTTGGATCCAAGGATCTCCAATCGGTGATGGGGAC
TGAGTGCCCAACTACCACCCTTGCACTATCGTCCTCGCACTATTTATTCCCAC
CTTCTGCTCGCCCTGCCGGGCGATTGCGGGCGTTTCTGCCCTTGACGTATCAA
TTTCGCCCCTGCTGGCGCGAGGATTCTTCATTCTAATAAGAACTCACTCCCGC
CAGCTCTGTACTTTTCCTGCGGGGCCCCTGCATGGCTTGTTCCCAATGCTTGCT
CGATCGACGGCGCCCATTGCCCACGGCGCTGCCGCATCCATGTGAAGAAAC
ACGGAAGAGTGCGAAGACTGGAAGTGAATTAAGAGTATAAGAAGAGGTAC
CAAGGGATTCTCAGGTGCTCTTAGGAACGGCTTTTCCTTCGCCAAGAGAAAC
TGCTACTGCTCGTGTCGCCACGGTGGTCAAGCCGCCCCATCTGCGATCCACC
AGGCCCATCCGCGGACTCGCGATCAGCCTGCTGGATCCGGACTGCCGACCTG
                          308

ACCGCTCGCATCCACCATTACAACCCTCCAATTGGACACCACTCCCACGTCC
TAAAGTTCACCATGCAAGCTGATCGATCGCATTCGCCGATGCACTCGCCTGC
CACAGAGGTGTGCGCTTCGGACTAGCGTGCAGGCGCCCCGAGGCCACCAGC
ATGCACCGATGGAAGCGGGCACGGCCGCTGCTCCAGGTCGCTGGCTCGCTC
AGACCCATAGCAACCTCCGCTGCGTCCCTAAATGTCACACAGAGCGTCTTTG
ATGGGTACGGATGGGAGAGAATCTGATTGGGCATTGCTGGTGCAGTGCAGG
AAGATGGCAAGTGCACAGTCAGTCATGCTGTACAAACTGGTGCCTCGTAGTA
TTGACTCGTATAGTGCATAGTATCATGCATGGTCGTTACTTGCAA
SEQ ID NO: 183
Cuphea wrightii acyl-ACP thioesterase Gen bank ACCESSION U56103
VERSION     U56103.1 Gl:1336005
MVAAAASSAFFSVPTPGTSPKPGKFGNWPSSLSVPFKPDNGGFH
VKANASAHPKANGSAVNLKSGSLETPPRSFINQLPDLSMLLSKITTVFGAAEKQWKRP
GMLVEPFGVDRIFQDGVFFRQSFSIRSYEIGVDRTASIETLMNIFQETSLNHCKSIGL
LNDGFGRTPEMCKRDLIWVVTKIQVEVNRYPTWGDTIEVNTWVSESGKNGMGRDWLIS
DCRTGEILIRATSVWAMMNQNTRRLSKFPYEVRQEIAPHFVDSAPVIEDDRKLHKLDV
KTGDSIRDGLTPRWNDLDVNQHVNNVKYIGWILKSVPIEVFETQELCGVTLEYRRECG
RDSVLESVTTMDPAKEGDRCVYQHLLRLEDGADITIGRTEWRPKNAGANGAISSGKTS
NGNSVS
SEQ ID NO: 184
Cuphea wrightii acyl-ACP thioesterase Gen bank ACCESSION U56104
VERSION     U56104.1 Gl:1336007
MVVAAAASSAFFPVPAPRPTPKPGKFGNWPSSLSQPFKPKSNPN
GRFQVKANVSPHPKANGSAVSLKSGSLNTLEDPPSSPPPRTFLNQLPDWSRLRTAITT
VFVAAEKQFTRLDRKSKRPDMLVDWFGSETIVQDGLVFRERFSIRSYEIGADRTASIE
TLMNHLQDTSLNHCKSVGLLNDGFGRTPEMCTRDLIWVLTKMQIVVNRYPTWGDTVEI
NSWFSQSGKIGMGREWLISDCNTGEILVRATSAWAMMNQKTRRFSKLPCEVRQEIAPH
FVDAPPVIEDNDRKLHKFDVKTGDSICKGLTPGWNDFDVNQHVSNVKYIGWILESMPT
EVLETQELCSLTLEYRRECGRESVVESVTSMNPSKVGDRSQYQHLLRLEDGADIMKGR
TEWRPKNAGTNRAIST
SEQ ID NO: 185
Cuphea wrightii beta-ketoacyl-ACP synthase II Genbank ACCESSION No. U67317
VERSION     U67317.1
MAAAASMVASPFCTWLVASCMSTSFDNDPRSPSVKRFPRRKRVL
SQRGSTFQCLVASCIDPCDQYRSSASLSFLGDNGFASLFGSKPFMSNRGHRRLRRASH
SGEAMAVALQPAQEAGTKKKPVIKQRRVVVTGMGVVTPLGHEPDVFYNNLLDGVSGIS
EIETFDCTQFPTRIAGEIKSFSTDGWVAPKLSKRMDKFMLYLLTAGKKALADGGITDE
VMKELDKRKCGVLIGSGMGGMKVFNDAIEALRVSYKKMNPFCVPFATTNMGSAMLAMD
LGWMGPNYSISTACATSNFCILNAANHIIRGEADMMLCGGSDAVIIPIGLGGFVACRA
LSQRNSDPTKASRPWDSNRDGFVMGEGAGVLLLEELEHAKKRGATIYAEFLGGSFTCD
AYHMTEPHPEGAGVILCIEKALAQAGVSKEDVNYINAHATSTSAGDIKEYQALARCFG
QNSELRVNSTKSMIGHLLGAAGGVEAVTVVQAIRTGWIHPNLNLEDPDKAVDAKLLVG
PKKERLNVKVGLSNSFGFGGHNSSILFAPCNV
                                                309

SEQ ID NO: 186
Cuphea hookeriana 3-ketoacyl-ACP synthase (Kas4)
Genbank ACCESSION AF060519 VERSION                 AF060519.2 Gl:30995500
MATASCMVASPFCTWLVAACMPTSSDNDPRSLSHKRLRLSRRRR
TLSSHCSLRGSTFQCLDPCNQQRFLGDNGFASLFGSKPLRSNRGHLRLGRTSHSGEVM
AVAMQPAQEVSTNKKPATKQRRVVVTGMGVVTPLGHDPDVYYNNLLDGISGISEIENF
DCSQFPTRIAGEIKSFSTDGWVAPKFSERMDKFMLYMLTAGKKALADGGITEDAMKEL
NKRKCGVLIGSGLGGMKVFSDSIEALRTSYKKISPFCVPFSTTNMGSAILAMDLGWMG
PNYSISTACATSNFCILNAANHIIKGEADMMLCGGSDAAVLPVGLGGFVACRALSQRN
NDPTKASRPWDSNRDGFVMGEGAGVLLLEELEHAKKRGATIYAEFLGGSFTCDAYHMT
EPHPEGAGVILCIEKALAQSGVSREDVNYINAHATSTPAGDIKEYQALAHCFGQNSEL
RVNSTKSMIGHLLGGAGGVEAVAVVQAIRTGWIHPNINLEDPDEGVDAKLLVGPKKEK
LKVKVGLSNSFGFGGHNSSILFAPCN
SEQ ID NO: 187
oleoyl-acyl carrier protein thioesterase [Carthamus tinctorius] (safflower).
Genbank accession no. AAA33019 VERSION            AAA33019.1 Gl:404026
MLSKGAPAAP        AVAAMYNASA       KDTTFALTHS     RSIGSVSIRR         RYNVFLCNSS SSSRKVSPLL
AVATGEQPSG        VASLREADKE       KSLGNRLRLG     SLTEDGLSYK         EKFVIRCYEV GINKTATIET
IANLLQEVGG        NHAQGVGFST       DGFATTTTMR     KLHLIWVTAR         MHIEIYRYPA WSDVIEIETW
VQGEGKVGTR        RDWILKDYAN       GEVIGRATSK     WVMMNEDTRR         LQKVSDDVRE EYLVFCPRTL
RLAFPEENNN        SMKKIPKLED       PAEYSRLGLV     PRRSDLDMNK         HVNNVTYIGW ALESIPPEII
DTHELQAITL        DYRRECQRDD       IVDSLTSREP     LGNAAGVKFK         EINGSVSPKK DEQDLSRFMH
LLRSAGSGLE        INRCRTEWRK       KPAKR
SEQ ID NO: 188
Arabidopsis thaliana (thale cress) Genbank accession no: NP_566464 VERSION        NP _566464.1
MTKEVCSNIG        LWLLLTLLIG       NYVVNLEASH     HVYKRLTQST         NTKSPSVNQP YRTGFHFQPP
KNWMNDPNGP        MIYKGIYHLF       YQWNPKGAVVv    GNIVWAHSTS         TDLINWDPHP PAIFPSAPFD
INGCWSGSAT        ILPNGKPVIL       YTGIDPKNQQ     VQNIAEPKNL         SDPYLREWKK SPLNPLMAPD
AVNGINASSF        RDPTTAWLGQ       DKKWRVIIGS     KIHRRGLAIT         YTSKDFLKWE KSPEPLHYDD
GSGMWECPDF        FPVTRFGSNG       VETSSFGEPN     EILKHVLKIS         LDDTKHDYYT IGTYDRVKDK
FVPDNGFKMD        GTAPRYDYGK       YYASKTFFDS     AKNRRILWGW         TNESSSVEDD VEKGWSGIQT
IPRKIWLDRS        GKQLIQWPVR       EVERLRTKQV     KNLRNKVLKS         GSRLEVYGVT AAQADVEVLF
KVRDLEKADV        IEPSWTDPQL       ICSKMNVSVK     SGLGPFGLMV         LASKNLEEYT SVYFRIFKAR
QNSNKYVVLM        CSDQSRSSLK       EDNDKTTYGA     FVDINPHQPL         SLRALIDHSV VESFGGKGRA
CITSRVYPKL        AIGKSSHLFA       FNYGYQSVDV     LNLNAWSMNS         AQIS
SEQ ID NO: 189
Codon optimized coding region of Cocos nucifera FatB3-B
1 ACTAGTATGG TGGCCTCCGT GGCCGCCTCC TCCTCCTTCT TCCCCGTGCC CTCCTCCTCC
          61 TCCTCCGCCT CCGCCAAGGC CTCCCGCGGC ATCCCCGACG GCCTGGACGT GCGCGGCATC
         121 GTGGCCAAGC CCGCCTCCTC CTCCGGCTGG ATGCAGGCCA AGGCCTCCGC CCGCGCCATC
         181 CCCAAGATCG ACGACACCAA GGTGGGCCTG CGCACCGACG TGGAGGAGGA CGCCGCCTCC
         241 ACCGCCCGCC GCACCTCCTA CGGGCGCGCC AACCAGCTGC CCGACTGGTC CATGCTGCTG
         301 GCCGCCATCC GCACCATCTT CTCCGCCGCC GAGAAGCAGT GGACCCTGCT GGACTCCAAG
         361 AAGCGCGGCG CCGACGCCGT GGCCGACGCC TCCGGCGTGG GCAAGATGGT GAAGAACGGC
         421 CTGGTGTACC GCCAGAACTT CTCCATCCGC ICC TAC GAGA TCGGCGTGGA CAAGCGCGCC
         481 TCCGTGGAGG CCCTGATGAA CCACTTCCAG GAGACCTCCC TGAACCACTG CAAGTGCATC
         541 GGCCTGATGC ACGGCGGCTT CGGCTGCACC CCCGAGATGA CCCGCCGCAA CCTGATCTGG
         601 GTGGTGGCCA AGATGCTGGT GCACGTGGAG CGCTACCCCT GGTGGGGCGA CGTGGTGCAG
         661 ATCAACACCT GGATCTCCTC CTCCGGCAAG AACGGCATGG GCCGCGACTG GCACGTGCAC
                                                  310

         721  GACTGCCAGA   CCGGCCTGCC    CATCATGCGC   GGCACCTCCG    TGTGGGTGAT   GATGGACAAG
         781  CACACCCGCC   GCCTGTCCAA    GCTGCCCGAG   GAGGTGCGCG    CCGAGATCAC   CCCCTTCTTC
         841  TCCGAGCGCG   ACGCCGTGCT    GGACGACAAC   GGCCGCAAGC    TGCCCAAGTT   CGACGACGAC
         901  TCCGCCGCCC   ACGTGCGCCG    CGGCCTGACC   CCCCGCTGGC    ACGACTTCGA   CGTGAACCAG
         961  CACGTGAACA   ACGTGAAGTA    CGTGGGCTGG   ATTCTGGAGT    CCGTGCCCGT   GTGGATGCTG
       1021   GACGGCTACG   AGGTGGCCAC    CATGTCCCTG   GAGTACCGCC    GCGAGTGCCG   CATGGACTCC
       1081   GTGGTGCAGT   CCCTGACCGC    CGTGTCCTCC   GACCACGCCG    ACGGCTCCCC   CATCGTGTGC
       1141   CAGCACCTGC   TGCGCCTGGA    GGACGGCACC   GAGATCGTGC    GCGGCCAGAC   CGAGTGGCGC
       1201   CCCAAGCAGC   AGGCCCGCGA    CCTGGGCAAC   ATGGGCCTGC    ACCCCACCGA   GTCCAAGTGA
       1261   TTJl.ATTAACT CGAG
SEQ ID NO: 190
Aspergillus awamori, preproglucoamylase G1, Genbank accession no. AAB59296
VERSION      AAB59296.1
MSFRSLLALS       GLVCTGLANV     ISKRATLDSW    LSNEATVART     AILNNIGADG    AWVSGADSGI
VVASPSTDNP       DYFYTWTRDS     GLVLKTLVDL    FRNGDTSLLS     TIENYISAQA    IVQGISNPSG
DLSSGAGLGE       PKFNVDETAY     TGSWGRPQRD    GPALRATAMI     GFGQWLLDNG    YTSTATDIVW
PLVRNDLSYV      AQYWNQTGYD      LWEEVNGSSF    FTIAVQHRAL     VEGSAFATAV    GSSCSWCDSQ
APEILCYLQS       FWTGSFILAN    FDSSRSGKDA     NTLLGSIHTF     DPEAACDDST    FQPCSPRALA
NHKEVVDSFR       SIYTLNDGLS     DSEAVAVGRY    PEDTYYNGNP     WFLCTLAAAE    QLYDALYQWD
KQGSLEVTDV       SLDFFKALYS     DAATGTYSSS    SSTYSSIVDA     VKTFADGFVS    IVETHAASNG
SMSEQYDKSD       GEQLSARDLT    WSYAALLTAN     NRRNSVVPAS     WGETSASSVP    GTCAATSAIG
TYSSVTVTSW       PSIVATGGTT     TTATPTGSGS    VTSTSKTTAT     ASKTSTSTSS    TSCTTPTAVA
VTFDLTATTT       YGENIYLVGS     ISQLGDWETS    DGIALSADKY     TSSDPLWYVT    VTLPAGESFE
YKFIRIESDD       SVEWESDPNR    EYTVPQACGT     STATVTDTWR
SEQ ID NO: 191
Rhizopus oryzae (Rhizopus delemar) Glucoamylase 1;
1,4-alpha-D-glucan glucohydrolase, Genbank accession no. P07683
VERSION      P07683.2
MQLFNLPLKV       SFFLVLSYFS     LLVSAASIPS    SASVQLDSYN     YDGSTFSGKI    YVKNIAYSKK
VTVIYADGSD      NWNNNGNTIA     ASYSAPISGS     NYEYWTFSAS     INGIKEFYIK    YEVSGKTYYD
NNNSANYQVS       TSKPTTTTAT    ATTTTAPSTS     TTTPPSRSEP     ATFPTGNSTI    SSWIKKQEGI
SRFAMLRNIN       PPGSATGFIA    ASLSTAGPDY     YYAWTRDAAL     TSNVIVYEYN    TTLSGNKTIL
NVLKDYVTFS      VKTQSTSTVC     NCLGEPKFNP     DASGYTGAWG     RPQNDGPAER    ATTFILFADS
YLTQTKDASY      VTGTLKPAIF     KDLDYVVNV11\J  SNGCFDLWEE     VNGVHFYTLM    VMRKGLLLGA
DFAKRNGDST       RASTYSSTAS     TIANKISSFW    VSSNNWIQVS     QSVTGGVSKK    GLDVSTLLAA
NLGSVDDGFF       TPGSEKILAT    AVAVEDSFAS     LYPINKNLPS     YLGNSIGRYP    EDTYNGNGNS
QGNSWFLAVT       GYAELYYRAI    KEWIGNGGVT     VSSISLPFFK     KFDSSATSGK    KYTVGTSDFN
NLAQNIALAA       DRFLSTVQLH    AHNNGSLAEE     FDRTTGLSTG     ARDLTWSHAS    LITASYAKAG
APAA
SEQ ID NO: 192
Chlamydomonas reinhardtii hydroxymethylpyrimidine phosphate synthase, Genbank accession no.
XP _001697756, VERSION       XP _001697756.1
MQLFARSPAG      VRVQQHAQRK      SAKVAGRGRL    NVRAEAIAMP     PAPAEQEKEL    QRLEKGNAFE
ELKAMATSPR       QSVNRPQKAE     DLTFRQAPTI    ADCFPDSEKM     YKEVKYDDEI    TLRVPFRRIH
LTTGTDFDVY       DTSGPQNVDP    RVGLPKLRKP     WVERREANGT     HARAGVTQMA    LARAGIISEE
MRFAAEREGL       DPEFVRSELA    RGRAIIPANK     CHLELEPCVI     GRNFMTKVNS    NFGNSAVTSS
IEEEVEKLQW       STIWGADTVM     DLSTGHNIFE    TREWVMRNSP     VPVGTVPIYE    ALERADGQVE
GITWELFRQV       LLDQAEQGVD    YWTIHAGVLL     RHVPLTANRI     TGIVSRGGSI    HAKLCLMEHK
ENFAYEHWDE       ILDICAKYDI     TLSIGDGLRP    GCIADANDAA     QFAELKTQGE    LTRRAWEKNV
QVMNEGPGHV       PLNKIPENMA    KQLEWCSEAP     FYTLGPLTTD     IAPGYDHITS    AIGAATIGAL
                                              311

GTALLCYVTP KEHLGLPNRD DVKAGVIAYK IAAHAADLAK GHPAAASWDL ELSKARFEFR
WRDQFALSLD PVTAQAYHDA TLPQEPAKTA HFCSMCGPKF CSMNITQELR QMVQAEQAQE
AAAAAAAADD ADLLAAAAEG MKEMSEKFKQ SGAQLYH
SEQ ID NO: 193
thiamine biosynthesis protein ThiC [Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica serovar Typhimurium str.
LT2], Genbank accession no. NP_463033, VERSION          NP_463033.1
MSTTTLTRRE      QRAKAQHFID       TLEGTAFPNS     KRIYVTGSQH       DIRVPMREIQ       LSPTLIGGSK
DNPQFEENEA      VPVYDTSGPY       GDPEVAINVQ     QGLAKLRQPW       IDARNDSEEL       DDRSSAYTRE
RLADDGLDDL      RFTGLLTPKR       AKAGKRVTQL     HYARKGIVTP       EMEFIAIREN      MGRERIRSEV
LRHQHPGMNF      GARLPENITP       EFVRDEVAAG     RAIIPANINH       PESEPMIIGR      NFLVKVNANI
GNSAVTSSIE      EEVEKLVWST       RWGADTVMDL     STGRYIHETR       EWILRNSPVP       IGTVPIYQAL
EKVNGIAEDL      TWEAFRDTLL       EQAEQGVDYF     TIHAGVLLRY       VPMTAKRLTG       IVSRGGSIMA
KWCLSHHKEN      FLFEHFREIC       EICAAYDVSL     SLGDGLRPGS       IQDANDEAQF       SELHTLGELT
KIAWEYDVQV      MIEGPGHVPM       HMIQRNMTEE     LESCHEAPFY       TLGPLTTDIA      PGYDHFTSGI
GAAMIGWFGC      AMLCYVTPKE       HLGLPNKEDV     KQGLITYKIA       AHAADLAKGH      PGAQIRDNAM
SKARFEFRWE      DQFNLALDPF       TARAYHDETL     PQESGKVAHF       CSMCGPKFCS      MKISQEVRDY
AAAQTIEIGM      ADMSEDFRAK       GGEIYLKREE     A
SEQ ID NO: 194
aminoglycoside-3'-0-phosphotransferase [Cloning vector pTAP6].Genbank accession no. ADJ58594,
VERSION      ADJ58594.1
MIEQDGLHAG      SPAAWVERLF       GYDWAQQTIG     CSDAAVFRLS       AQGRPVLFVK       TDLSGALNEL
QDEAARLSWL      ATTGVPCAAV       LDVVTEAGRD     WLLLGEVPGQ       DLLSSHLAPA      EKVSIMADAM
RRLHTLDPAT      CPFDHQAKHR       IERARTRMEA     GLVDQDDLDE       EHQGLAPAEL      FARLKARMPD
GEDLVVTHGD      ACLPNIMVEN       GRFSGFIDCG     RLGVADRYQD       IALATRDIAE      ELGGEWADRF
LVLYGIAAPD      SQRIAFYRLL       DEFF
SEQ ID NO: 195
acyl ACP thioesterase [Brassica napus (rape)].Genbank accession no. CAA52070,
VERSION      CAA52070.1
MLKLSCNVTN      NLHTFSFFSD       SSLFIPVNRR     TIAVSSSQLR       KPALDPLRAV       ISADQGSISP
VNSCTPADRL      RAGRLMEDGY       SYKEKFIVRS     YEVGINKTAT       VETIANLLQE      VACNHVQKCG
FSTDGFATTL      TMRKLHLIWV       TARMHIEIYK     YPAWSDVVEI       ETWCQSEGRI       GTRRDWILRD
SATNEVIGRA      TSKWVMMNQD       TRRLQRVTDE     VRDEYLVFCP       REPRLAFPEE      NNSSLKKIPK
LEDPAQYSML      ELKPRRADLD       MNQHVNNVTY      IGWVLESIPQ      EIIDTHELQV       ITLDYRRECQ
QDDIVDSLTT      SEIPDDPISK       FTGTNGSAMS     SIQGHNESQF       LHMLRLSENG      QEINRGRTQW
                RKKSSR
SEQ ID NO: 196
acyl-ACP thioesterase [Garcinia mangostana], Genbank accession no. AAB51525
VERSION      AAB51525.1
MVATAATSSF      FPLTSPSGDA       KSGNPGKGSV     SFGSMKSKSA       ASSRGLQVKA      NAQAPTKING
STDDAQLPAP      RTFINQLPDW       SMLLAAITTV     FLAAEKQWMM       LDWKPRRPDM       LIDTFGLGRI
VQDGLVFRQN      FSIRSYEIGA       DRTASIETVM     NHLQETALNH       VKTAGLLGDG      FGSTPEMSKR
NLIWVVTKMQ      VEVDRYPTWG       DVVQVDTWVS     ASGKNGMRRD       WLLRDGNTGE       TLTRASSVWV
MMNKLTRRLS      KIPEEVREEI       GSYFVNSDPV     VEEDGRKVTK       LDDNTADFVR      KGLTPKWNDL
DINQHVNNVK      YIGWILESAP       QPILETRELS     AVTLEYRREC       GRDSVLRSLT      AVSGGGVGDL
GHAGNVECQH      VLRLEDGAEI       VRGRTEWRPK     YINNFSIMGQ       IPTDAS
SEQ ID NO: 197
                                                 312

Cuphea hookeriana 8:0- and 10:0-ACP specific thioesterase (FatB2) mRNA, complete eds., Genbank
accession no. U39834, VERSION          U39834.1
MVAAAASSAF       FPVPAPGASP        KPGKFGNWPS       SLSPSFKPKS      IPNGGFQVKA     NDSAHPKANG
SAVSLKSGSL       NTQEDTSSSP        PPRTFLHQLP       DWSRLLTAIT      TVFVKSKRPD     MHDRKSKRPD
MLVDSFGLES       TVQDGLVFRQ        SFSIRSYEIG       TDRTASIETL      MNHLQETSLN     HCKSTGILLD
GFGRTLEMCK       RDLIWWIKM         QIKVNRYPAW       GDTVEINTRF      SRLGKIGMGR     DWLISDCNTG
EILVRATSAY       AMMNQKTRRL        SKLPYEVHQE       IVPLFVDSPV      IEDSDLKVHK     FKVKTGDSIQ
KGLTPGWNDL       DVNQHVSNVK        YIGWILESMP       TEVLETQELC      SLALEYRREC     GRDSVLESVT
AMDPSKVGVR       SQYQHLLRLE        DGTAIVNGAT       EWRPKNAGAN      GAISTGKTSN     GNSVS
SEQ ID NO: 198
acyl-ACP thioesterase FatA [Ricinus communis] (castor bean) Genbank ACCESSION ABS30422
VERSION       ABS30422.1
MLKVPCCNAT       DPIQSLSSQC        RFLTHFNNRP       YFTRRPSIPT      FFSSKNSSAS     LQAWSDISS
VESAACDSLA       NRLRLGKLTE        DGFSYKEKFI       VRSYEVGINK      TATVETIANL     LQEVGCNHAQ
SVGFSTDGFA       TTTSMRKMHL        IWVTARMHIE       IYKYPAWSDV      VEVETWCQSE     GRIGTRRDWI
LTDYATGQII       GRATSKWVMM        NQDTRRLQKV       TDDVREEYLV      FCPRELRLAF     PEENNRSSKK
ISKLEDPAQY       SKLGLVPRRA        DLDMNQHVNN       VTYIGWVLES      IPQEIIDTHE     LQTITLDYRR
ECQHDDIVDS       LTSVEPSENL        EAVSELRGTN       GSATTTAGDE      DCRNFLHLLR     LSGDGLEINR
GRTEWRKKSA       R
SEQ ID NO: 199
stearoyl-acyl-carrier protein desaturase [Ricinus communis] Genbank ACCESSION AM74692
VERSION       AM74692.1
FRQITKNQKK       KVRKKTMALK        LNPFLSQTQK       LPSFALPPMA      STRSPKFYMA     STLKSGSKEV
ENLKKPFMPP       REVHVQVTHS        MPPQKIEIFK       SLDNWAEENI      LVHLKPVEKC    WQPQDFLPDP
ASDGFDEQVR       ELRERAKEIP        DDYFWLVGD        MITEEALPTY      QTMLNTLDGV     RDETGASPTS
WAIWTRAWTA       EENRHGDLLN        KYLYLSGRVD       MRQIEKTIQY      LIGSGMDPRT     ENSPYLGFIY
TSFQERATFI       SHGNTARQAK        EHGDIKLAQI       CGTIAADEKR      HETAYTKIVE     KLFEIDPDGT
VLAFADMMRK       KISMPAHLMY        DGRDDNLFDH       FSAVAQRLGV      YTAKDYADIL     EFLVGRWKVD
KLTGLSAEGQ       KAQDYVCRLP        PRIRRLEERA       QGRAKEAPTM      PFSWIFDRQV     KL
SEQ ID NO: 200
stearoyl-ACP desaturase [Olea europaea] Genbank ACCESSION MB67840 VERSION
MB67840.1
MALKLCFPPH       KMPSFPDARI        RSHRVFMAST       IHSPSMEVGK      VKKPFTPPRE    VHVQVTHSLA
PEKREIFNSL       NNWAQENILV        LLKDVDKCWQ       PSDFLPDSAS      EGFDEQVMEL     RKRCKEIPDD
YFIVLVGDMI       TEEALPTYQT        MLNTLDGVRD       ETGASLTPWA      IWTRAWTAEE     NRHGDLLNKY
LYLSGRVDMK       QIEKTIQYLI        GSGMDPRTEN       NPYLGFIYTS      FQERATFISH     GNTARLAKEH
GDLKLAQICG       IIAADEKRHE        TAYTKIVEKL       FEIDPDGTVL      ALADMMRKKV     SMPAHLMYDG
QDDNLFENFS       SVAQRLGVYT        AKDYADILEF       LVGRWDIEKL      TGLSGEGRKA     QDYVCTLPPR
IRRLEERAQS       RVKKASATPF        SWIFGREINL
SEQ ID NO: 201
Myristoyl-acyl carrier protein thioesterase, chloroplastic; Cuphea hookeriana, Genbank ACCESSION
Q39513 VERSION           039513.1
MVATAASSAF FPLPSADTSS RPGKLGNKPS SLSPLKPKST PNGGLQVKAN ASAPPKINGS
PVGLKSGGLK TQEDAHSAPP PRTFINQLPD WSMLLAAITT VFLAAEKQWM MLDWKPKRPD
MLVDPFGLGS IVQDGLVFRQ NFSIRSYEIG ADRTASIETV MNHLQETALN HVKIAGLSND
                                                    313

GFGRTPEMYK       RDLIWVVAKM        QVMVNRYPTW       GDTVEVNTWV       AKSGKNGMRR      DWLISDCNTG
EILTRASSVW       VMMNQKTRRL        SKIPDEVRNE       IEPHFVDSPP       VIEDDDRKLP      KLDEKTADSI
RKGLTPRWND       LDVNQHVNNV        KYIGWILEST       PPEVLETQEL       CSLTLEYRRE      CGRESVLESL
TAMDPSGGGY       GSQFQHLLRL        EDGGEIVKGR       TEWRPKNGVI       NGVVPTGESS      PGDYS
SEQ ID NO: 202
thioesterase Fat81-1 [Cuphea hookeriana], Genbank ACCESSION AAC72882 VERSION
AAC72882.1
MVATAASSAF       FPVSSPVTSS        RPGKPGNGSS       SFSPIKPKFV       ANGGLQVKAN      ASAPPKINGS
SVGLKSCSLK       TQEDTPSAPA        PRTFINQLPD       WSMLLAAITT       VFLAAEKQWM      MLDWKPKRPD
MLVDPFGLGS       IVQHGLVFRQ        NFSIRSYEIG       AORTAS IE TV     MNHLQETALN      HVKSAGLMND
GFGRTPEMYK       KDLIWVVAKM        QVMVNRYPTW       GDTVEVNTWV       AKSGKNGMRR      DWLISDCNTG
EILTRASSVW       VMMNQKTRRL        SKIPDEVRHE       IEPHFVDSPP       VIEDDDRKLP      KLDDKTADSI
RKGLTPKWND       LDVNQHVNNV        KYIGWILEST       PQEVLETQEL       CSLTLEYRRE      CGRESVLESL
TAADPSGKGF       GSQFQHLLRL        EDGGEIVKGR       TEWRPKTAGI       NGAIPSGETS      PGDS
SEQ ID NO: 203
Uc FatB2 [Umbellularia californica], Genbank ACCESSION AAC49001 VERSION                  AAC49001.1
MVTTSLASAF       FSMKAVMLAP        DGSGIKPRSS       GLQVRAGKEQ       NSCKMINGTK      VKDTEGLKGR
STLHGWSMPL       ELITTIFSAA        EKQWTNLVSK       PPQLLDDHLG       LHGLVFRRTF      AIRCSEVGPD
RSTSIVAVMN       YLQEAACNHA        ESLGLLGDGF       GETLEMSRRD       LIWVVRRTHV      VVERYPAWGD
TVEVEAWIGA       AGNIGMRRHF        LVRDCKTGHI       LARCTSVSVM       MNMRTRRLSK      IPQEVRGEID
PLFIEKFAVK       EGEIKKLQKF        NDSTADYIQG       GWTPRWNDLD       VNQHVNNIKY      VGWIFKSVPD
SIYENHHLSS       ITLEYRRECT        RGRALQSLTT       VCGGSSEAGI       ICEHLLQLED      GSEVLRGRTD
WRPKRTDSFE       GISERFPQQE        PHN
SEQ ID NO: 204
palmitoyl-ACP thioesterase [Elaeis guineensis], (African oil palm}. Genbank ACCESSION
ABD83939 VERSION            ABD83939.1
MVASIAASAF       FPTPSFSPTA        SAKASKTIGE       GSENLDARGI       IAKPTSSSAA      MQGKVMAQAV
SKINGAKVGL       KAESQKAEED        AAPSSAPRTF       YNQLPDWSVL       LAAVT TI FLA    AEKQWTLLDW
KPRRPDMLTD       AFSLGKIVQD        GLVFKQNFSI       RSYEIGADRT       ASIETLMNHL      QETALNHVRS
AGLMGDGFGA       TPEMSKRNLI        WVVTKVRVLI       EHYPSWGDW        EVDTWVGPAG      KNGMRRDWHV
RDHRTGQTIL       RATRVWVMMN        KNTRKLSKVP       EEVRAEIGPY       FVERAAIVDE      DSRKLPKLDE
DTTDYVKKGL       TPRWSDLDVN        QHVNNVKYIG       WILESAPISI       LENHELASMT      LEYRRECGRD
SVLQSLTAVA       NDCTGGLPEA        SIECQHLLQL       ECGAEIVRGR       TQWRPRRASG      PT SAG SA
SEQ ID NO: 205
palmitoyl-acyl carrier protein thioesterase [Elaeis guineensis] (African oil palm} Genbank ACCESSION
AAD42220 VERSION            AAD42220.2
MVASIVAWAF       FPTPSFSPTA        SAKASKTIGE       GSENLNVRGI       IAKPTSSSAA      KQGKVMAQAV
PKINGAKVGL       KAESQKAEED        AAPSSAPRTF       YNQLPDWSVL       LAAVTTIFLA      AEKQWTLLDW
KPRRPDMLTG       AFSLGKIVQD        GLVFRQNFSI       RSYEIGADRT       ASIETLMNHL      QETALNHVRN
AGLLGDGFGA       TPEMSKRNLI        WVVTKMQVLI       EHYPSWGDW        EVDTWVGASG      KNGMRRDWHV
RDYRTGQTIL       RATSIWVMMD        KHTRKLSKMP       EEVRAEIGPY       FMEHAAIVDE      DSRKLPKLDD
DTADYIKWGL       TPRWSDLDVN        QHVNNVKYIG       WILESAPISI       LENHELASMT      LEYRRECGRD
SVLQSLTAVA       NDCTGGLPEA        SIECQHLLQL       ECGAEIVRGR       TQWRPRRASG      PT SAG SA
SEQ ID NO: 206
                                                    314

palmitoyl-ACP thioesterase [Elaeis guineensis]. Genbank ACCESSION AAL 15645 VERSION
AAL 15645.1
FYNQLPDWSV        LLAAVTTIFL       AAEKQWTLLD      WKPRRPDMLA       DAFGLGKIVQ       DGLVFKQNFS
IRSYEIGADR        TASIETLMNH        LQETALNHVR      SAGLMGDGFG      ATPEMSKRNL       IWWTKMRVL
IKHYPSWGDV        VEVDTWVGPT        GKNGMRRDWH     VRDHRTGQTI       LRATSVWVMM       NKNTRKLSKV
PEEVRAELGP        YFVERAAIVD        EDSRKLPKLD     EDTTDYIKKG       LTPRWSDLDV       NQHVNNVKYI
GWILESAPIS        FLENHELASM        SLEYRRECGR      DSVLQSLTAV      SNDLTDGLPE       AGIECQHLLQ
LECGTELVKG        RTEWRPKHSL       ALRNMGPTPG      GSA
SEQ ID NO: 207
FATB [Populustomentosa]. GenbankACCESSION ABC47311 VERSION                         ABC47311.1
MVATAATSSF        FPVPSPPGDA        KSSKVGSGSA      SLGGIKSKSA      SSGALQVKAN       AQAPPKINGS
PVGLTASVET        AKKEDWSSP        APRTFINQLP       DWSMLLAAIT      TMFLAAEKQW       MMLDWKPKRA
DMLIDPFGIG        RIVQDGLVFS        QNFSIRSYEI     GADRTASIET       LMNHLQETAL       NHVKTAGLLG
DGFGSTPEMS        KRNLIWWTR         MQILVDRYPT     WGDWHVDTW        VSASGKNGMR       RDWLVRDAKT
GETLTRASSL        WVMMNKVTRR        LSKIPEDVRG     EIEPYFLNSD       PWNEDSTKL        PKLDDKTADY
IRKGLTPRWN        DLDVNQHVNN       VKYIGWILES      APPPILESHE       LAAITLEYRR       ECGRDSVLQS
LTAVSGAGIG        NLGGPGKVEC        QHLLRHEDGA     EIVRGRTEWR       PKHANNFGMM       GGQMPADESG
A
SEQ ID NO: 208
FATB (fatty acyl-ACP thioesterases B); acyl carrier/ acyl-[acyl-carrier-protein] hydrolase [Arabidopsis
thaliana]. Genbank ACCESSION NP_ 172327 VERSION                  NP_172327.1
MVATSATSSF        FPVPSSSLDP        NGKGNKIGST     NLAGLNSAPN       SGRMKVKPNA       QAPPKINGKK
VGLPGSVDIV        RTDTETSSHP       APRTFINQLP       DWSMLLAAIT      TIFLAAEKQW       MMLDWKPRRS
DMLVDPFGIG        RIVQDGLVFR        QNFSIRSYEI     GADRSASIET       VMNHLQETAL       NHVKTAGLLG
DGFGSTPEMF        KKNLIWWTR         MQVWDKYPT      WGDWEVDTW        VSQSGKNGMR       RDWLVRDCNT
GETLTRASSV        WVMMNKLTRR        LSKIPEEVRG     EIEPYFVNSD       PVLAEDSRKL       TKIDDKTADY
VRSGLTPRWS        DLDVNQHVNN       VKYIGWILES      APVGIMERQK       LKSMTLEYRR       ECGRDSVLQS
LTAVTGCDIG        NLATAGDVEC        QHLLRLQDGA     EWRGRTEWS        SKTPTTTWGT       AP
SEQ ID NO: 209
acyl-(acyl carrier protein) thioesterase [Arabidopsis thaliana]. Gen bank ACCESSION CAA85387
VERSION       CAA85387.1
MVATSATSSF        FPVPSSSLDP        NGKGNKIGST     NLAGLNSAPN       SGRMKVKPNA       QAPPKINGKR
VGLPGSVDIV        RTDTETSSHP       APRTFINQLP       DWSMLLAAIT      TIFLAAEKQW       MMLDWKPRRS
DMLVDPFGIG        RIVQDGLVFR        QNFSIRSYEI     GADRSASIET       VMNHLQETAL       NHVKTAGLLG
DGFGSTPEMF        KKNLIWWTR         MQVWDKYPT      WGDWEVDTW        VSQSGKNGMR       RDWLVRDCNT
GETLTRASSV        WVMMNKLTRR        LSKIPEEVRG     EIEPYFVNSD       PVLAEDSRKL       TKIDDKTADY
VRSGLTPRWS        DLDVNQHVNN       VKYIGWILES      APVGIMERQK       LKSMTLEYRR       ECGRDSVLQS
LTAVTGCDIG        NLATAGDVEC        QHLLRLQDGA     EWRGRTEWS        SKTPTTTWGT       AP
SEQ ID NO: 210
acyl-(acyl carrier protein) thioesterase [Arabidopsis thaliana]. Gen bank ACCESSION CAA85388
VERSION       CAA85388.1
MVATSATSSF        FPVPSSSLDP        NGKGNKIGST     NLAGLNSTPN       SGRMKVKPNA       QAPPKINGKR
VGLPGSVDIV        RTDTETSSHP       APRTFINQLP       DWSMLLAAIT      TIFLAAEKQW       MMLDWKPRRS
DMLVDPFGIG        RIVQDGLVFR        QNFSIRSYEI     GADRSASIET       VMNHLQETAL       NHVKTAGLLG
DGFGSTPEMF        KKNLIWWTR         MQVWDKYPT      WGDWEVDTW        VSQSGKNGMR       RDWLVRDCNT
                                                    315

00        GETLTRASSV WVMMNKLTRR LSKIPEEVRG EIEPYFVNSD PVLAEDSRKL TKIDDKTADY
,.......i VRSGLTPRWS DLDVNQHVNN VKYIGWILES APVGIMERQK LKSMTLEYRR ECGRDSVLQS
0         LTAVTGCDIG NLATAGDVEC QHLLRLQDGA EVVRGRTEWS SKTPTTTWGT AP
N
   >-.
   c:rj
          SEQ ID NO: 211
~         Gossypium hirsutum Genbank ACCESSION Q9SQI3
00        MVATAVTSAF       FPVTSSPDSS        DSKNKKLGSI     KSKPSVSSGS      LQVKANAQAP      PKINGTVAST
0
          TPVEGSKNDD       GASSPPPRTF        INQLPDWSML      LAAITTIFLA     AEKQWMMLDW      KPRRPDMVID
          PFGIGKIVQD       GLVFSQNFSI        RSYEIGADQT     ASIETLMNHL      QETAINHCRS      AGLLGEGFGA
,.......i TPEMCKKNLI       WVVTRMQVVV        DRYPTWGDVV     QVDTWVSASG      KNGMRRDWLV      SNSETGEILT
,.......i RATSVWVMMN       KLTRRLSKIP        EEVRGEIEPF     FMNSDPVLAE      DSQKLVKLDD      STAEHVCKGL
N         TPKWSDLDVN       QHVNNVKYIG        WILESAPLPI      LE SHEL SALT   LEYRRECGRD      SVLQSLTTVS
~
          DSNTENAVNV       GEFNCQHLLR        LDDGAEIVRG     RTRWRPKHAK      SSANMDQITA      KRA
0
N
00        SEQ ID NO: 212
,.......i
0         acyl-ACP thioesterase [Cuphea lanceolata]. Genbank ACCESSION CAA54060 VERSION
N         CAA54060.1
          MVATAASSAF       FPLPSPDTSS        RPGKLGNGSS      SLSPLKPKFV     ANAGLKVKAS      ASAPPKINGS
          SVGLKSGSLK       TQEDTPSVPP        PRTFINQLPD     WSMLLAAITT      VFLAAEKQWM      MLDWKPKRPD
          MLVDPFGLGS       IVQGGLVFRQ        NFSIRSYEIG     ADRTASIETV      MNHLQETALN      HVKSAGLLND
          GFGRTPEMFK       RDLIWVVAKM        QVMVNRYPTW      GDTVEVNTWV     AKSGKNGMRR      DWLISDCNTG
          EILTRASSVW       VMMNQKTRKL        SKIPDEVRHE      IEPHFIDCAP     VIEDDDRKLR      KLDEKTADSI
          RKGLTPKWND       LDVNQHVNNV        KYIGWILEST     PQEVLETQEL      SSLTLEYRRE      CGRESVLESL
          TAVDSSGKGF       GSQFQHLLRL        EDGGEIVKGR      TEWRPKTAGV     NGAIASGETS      HGDS
          SEQ ID NO: 213
          acyl-acyl carrier protein thioesterase [Cuphea calophylla subsp. mesostemon]. Genbank
          ACCESSION ABB71581 VERSION ABB71581.1
          MVATAASSAF       FPVPSPDTSS        RPGKLGNGSS      SLSPLKPKLM     ANGGLQVKAN      ASAPPKINGS
          SVGLKSGSLK       TQEDTPSAPP        PRTFINQLPD     WSMLLAAITT      VFLAAEKQWM      MLDWKPKRPD
          MLVDPFGLGR       IVQDGLVFRQ        NFSIRSYEIG     ADRTASIETV      MNHLQETALN      HVKSAGLLND
          GFGRTPEMYK       RDLIWVVAKM        QVMVNRYPTW      GDTVEVNTWV     AKSGKNGMRR      DWLISDCNTG
          EILTRASSVW       VMMNQKTRRL        SKIPDEVRHE      IEPHFVDSAP     VIEDDDRKLP      KLDEKTADSI
          RKGLTPKWND       LDVNQHVNNV        KYIGWILEST     PPEVLETQEL      CSLTLEYRRE      CGRESVLESL
          TAVDPSGKGS       GSQFQHLLRL        EDGGEIVKGR      TEWRPKTAGI     NGPIASGETS      PGDS
          SEQ ID NO: 214
          palmitoyl-acyl carrier protein thioesterase [Gossypium hirsutum](upland cotton). Genbank
          ACCESSION AAD01982 VERSION                 AAD01982.1
          TAVTSAFFPV       TSSPDSSDSK        NKKLGSIKSK     PSVSSGSLQV      KANAQAPPKI      NGTVASTTPV
          EGSKNDDGAS       SPPPRTFINQ        LPDWSMLLAA      ITTIFLAAEK     QWMMLDWKPR      RPDMVIDPFG
          IGKIVQDGLV       FSQNFSIRSY        EIGADQTASI     ETLMNHLQET      AINHCRSAGL      LGEGFGATPE
          MCKKNLIWVV       TRMQVVVDRY        PTWGDVVQVD      TWVSASGKNG     MRRDWLVSNS      ETGEILTRAT
          SVWVMMNKLT       RRLSKIPEEV        RGEIEPFFMN      SDPVLAEDSQ     KLVKLDDSTA      EHVCKGLTPK
          WSDLDVNQHV       NNVKYIGWIL        ESAPLPILES     HELSALTLEY      RRECGRDSVL      QSLTTVSDSN
          TENAVNVGEF       NCQHLLRLDD        GAEIVRGRTR     WRPKHAKSSA      NMDQITAKRA
          SEQ ID NO: 215
          hypothetical protein VITISV_008781 [Vitis vinifera]. Genbank ACCESSION CAN81819 VERSION
          CAN81819.1
                                                             316

MVATAATSAF         FAVASPSSDP      DAKPSTKPGX        GSAILRGIKS      RNAPSGSLQV      KANAQAPPKI
NGTTVGYTSS         AEGVKIEDDM      SSPPPRTFIN        QLPDWSMLLA      AITTIFLAAE      KQWMMLDWKP
RRSDMLIDPF         GLGKIVQDGL      VFRQNFSIRS        YEIGADRTAS       IETLMNHLQE     TALNHVRTAG
LLGDGFGSTP         EMSIRNLIWV      VTRMQVVVDR        YPTWGDWQV       DTWVCASGKN      GMRRDWIIRD
CKTGETLTRA         SSVWVMMNKQ      TRRLSKIPDA       VRAEIEPYFM       DSAPIVDEDG      RKLPKLDDST
ADYIRTGLTP         RWSDLDVNQH      VNNVKYIGWI        LE SAP LP ILE   SHELSSMTLE      YRRECGRDSV
LQSLTAVSGT         GVGNLLDCGN      VECQHLLRLE        EGAEIVEGKD
SEQ ID NO: 216
palmitoyl-ACP thioesterase [Brassica juncea]. Genbank ACCESSION ABI 18986 VERSION
ABl18986.1
MVATSATSLF         FPLPSSSLDP      NXKTNNRVTS        TNFAGLGPTP      NSGGRMKVKP      NAQAPPKING
KKVGLPGSVE         IETSQQQQPA      PRTFINQLPD       WSMLLAAITT       VFLAAEKQWM      MLDWKPRRSD
MIMEPFGLGR         IVQDGLVFRQ      NFSIRSYEIG       ADRSASIETV       MNHLQETALN      XVKTAGLLGD
GFGSTPEMVK         KXLIWWTRM       QVVVDTYPTW        GDWEVDTWV       SKSGKNGMRR      DWLVRDGNTG
QILTRASSVW         VMMNKLTRRL      SKIPEEVRGE        IEPYFVDFDP      VLAEDSRKLT      KLDDKTADYV
RSGLTPRWSD         LDVNQHVNNV      KYIGWILESA        PVGMMESQKL      KSMTLEYRRE      CGRDSVLQSL
TAVSGCDIGN         LGTAGEVECQ      HLLRLQDGAE       WRGRTEWSS        KTPTTTWDIT      p
SEQ ID NO: 217
chloroplast stearoyl/oleoyl specific acyl-acyl carrier protein thioesterase precursor [Madhuca longifolia
var. latifolia]. Genbank ACCESSION AAX51637 VERSION                AAX51637.1
INQLPDWSML         LAAITTIFLA      AEKQWMMLDW        KPKRPDMLID      PFGLGKIVQD      GLVFRQNFSI
RSYEIGADRT         ASIETLMNHL      QETALNHVKT       AGLLGDGFGV       TPEMCKKNLI      WWAKMQVLV
DRYPTWGDW          QVDTWVAASG      KNGMRRDWLV        RDFETGDILT      KASSVWVMMN      RETRRLSKIP
DEVRLEIGSY         FVDSPPVLDE      DGRKLPKLDE        STADHIRTGL      TPRWNDLDVN      QHVNNVKYIG
WILESAPQPI         LENHELASMT      LEYRRECGKD        SVLQSLTGVT      SGGVGGLADS      GHVECQHLLR
LEGGAEIVKG         RTEWRPKYAN      RLGCLDQLPA        GST
SEQ ID NO: 218
hypothetical protein Osl_08261 [Oryza sativa lndica Group]. Genbank ACCESSION EAY86877
VERSION          EAY86877.1
MAGSLAASAF         FPGPGSSPAA      SARSSKSAAV        TGELPENLSV      RGIVAKPNPP      PAAMQVKAQA
QTLPKVNGTK         VNLKTVKPDM      EETVPYSAPK        TFYNQLPDWS      MLLAAITTIF      LAAEKQWTLL
DWKPKKPDML         VDTFGFGRII      QDGMVFRQNF       MIRSYEIGAD       RTASIETLMN      HLQETALNHV
RTAGLLGDGF         GATPEMSKRN      LIWWSKIQL         LVEQYPAWGD      TVQVDTWVAA      AGKNGMRRDW
HVRDYNSGRT         ILRATSVWVM      MHKKTRRLSK       MPDEVRAEIG       PYFNDRSAIT      EEQSEKLAKT
GNKVGDDATE         QFIRKGLTPR      WGDLDVNQHV        NNVKYIGWIL      ESAPISVLEK      HELASMTLDY
RKECGRDSVL         QSLTTVSGEC      TSIGADKQAS       AIQCDHLLQL       ESGADIVKAH      TEWRPKRSHA
AAENA
SEQ ID NO: 219
Os11 g0659500 [Oryza sativa Japonica Group]. Genbank ACCESSION NP_001068400 VERSION
NP _001068400.1
MAGSLAASAF         FPGPGSSPAA      SARSSKNAAV        TGELPENLSV      RGIVAKPNPP      PAAMQVKAQA
QTLPKVNGTK         VNLKTVKPDM      EETVPYSAPK        TFYNQLPDWS      MLLAAITTIF      LAAEKQWTLL
DWKPKKPDML         VDTFGFGRII      QDGMVFRQNF       MIRSYEIGAD       RTASIETLMN      HLQETALNHV
RTAGLLGDGF         GATPEMSKRN      LIWWSKIQL         LVEQYPAWGD      TVQVDTWVAA      AGKNGMRRDW
HVRDYNSGRT         ILRATSVWVM      MHKKTRRLSK       MPDEVRAEIG       PYFNDRSAIT      EEQSEKLAKT
GNKVGDDATE         QFIRKGLTPR      WGDLDVNQHV        NNVKYIGWIL      ESAPISVLEK      HELASMTLDY
                                                     317

RKECGRDSVL QSLTTVSGEC TSIGADKQAS AIQCDHLLQL ESGADIVKAH TEWRPKRSHA
AAENA
SEQ ID NO: 220
hypothetical protein Osl_21596 [Oryza sativa lndica Group]. Genbank ACCESSION EAY99617
VERSION       EAY99617.1
MAGSLAASAF       FPVPGSSPAA      SARSSKNTTG      ELPENLSVRG    IVAKPNPSPG   AMQVKAQAQA
LPKVNGTKVN       LKTTSPDKED      IIPYTAPKTF      YNQLPDWSML    LAAVTTIFLA   AEKQWTLLDW
KPKKPDMLAD       TFGFGRIIQD      GLVFRQNFLI      RSYEIGADRT    ASIETLMNHL   QETALNHVKT
AGLLGDGFGA       TPEMSKRNLI     WWSKIQLLV        ERYPSWGDMV    QVDTWVAAAG   KNGMRRDWHV
RDYNSGQTIL       RATSVWVMMN      KNTRRLSKMP      DEVRAEIGPY    FNGRSAISEE   QGEKLPKPGT
TFDGAATKQF       TRKGLTPKWS      DLDVNQHVNN      VKYIGWILES    APISILEKHE   LASMTLDYRK
ECGRDSVLQS       LTTVSGECDD      GNTESSIQCD      HLLQLESGAD    IVKAHTEWRP   KRAQGEGNMG
FFPAESA
SEQ ID NO: 221
acyl-(ACP) thioesterase type B [Cuphea lanceolata]. Genbank ACCESSION CAB60830
VERSION      CAB60830.1
MVAAAATSAF       FPVPAPGTSP      KPGKSGNWPS      SLSPTFKPKS    IPNAGFQVKA   NASAHPKANG
SAVNLKSGSL       NTQEDTSSSP      PPRAFLNQLP      DWSMLLTAIT    TVFVAAEKQW   TMLDRKSKRP
DMLVDSVGLK       SIVRDGLVSR      QSFLIRSYEI      GADRTASIET    LMNHLQETSI   NHCKSLGLLN
DGFGRTPGMC       KNDLIWVLTK      MQIMVNRYPT      WGDTVEINTW    FSQSGKIGMA   SDWLISDCNT
GEILIRATSV       WAMMNQKTRR      FSRLPYEVRQ      ELTPHFVDSP    HVIEDNDQKL   HKFDVKTGDS
IRKGLTPRVIN      DLDVNQHVSN     VKYIGWILES       MPIEVLETQE    LCSLTVEYRR   ECGMDSVLES
VTAVDPSENG       GRSQYKHLLR      LEDGTDIVKS      RTEWRPKNAG    TNGAISTSTA   KTSNGNSAS
SEQ ID NO: 222
acyl-ACP thioesterase [Myristica fragrans]. Genbank ACCESSION AAB71730 VERSION
AAB71730.1
PDWSMLLAAI       TTIFLAAEKQ     WTNLDWKPRR       PDMLVDFDPF    SLGRFVQDGL   IFRQNFSIRS
YEIGADRTAS       IETLMNHLQE      TALNHVRCIG      LLDDGFGSTP    EMTRRDLIWV   VTRMQVLVDR
YPSWGDVIEV       DSWVTPSGKN      GMKREWFLRD      CKTGEILTRA    TSVWVMMNKR   TRRLSKIPEE
VRVEIEPYFV       EHGVLDEDSR      KLPKLNDNTA      NYIRRGLAPR    WSDLDVNQHV   NNVKYIGWIL
ESVPSSLLES       HELYGMTLEY      RKECGKDGLL      QSLTAVASDY    GGGSLEAGVE   CDHLLRLEDG
SEIMRGKTEW       RPKRAANTTY      FGSVDDIPPH      PIYIYIYIYI    YIYIYWVGSS   CSGSSTTMSR
TR
SEQ ID NO: 223
Cinnamomum camphora acyl-ACP thioesterase. GenbankACCESSION U31813 VERSION
U31813.1
MATTSLASAFCSMKAVMLARDGRGMKPRSSDLQLRAGNAQTSLK
MINGTKFSYTESLKKLPDWSMLFAVITTIFSAAEKQWTNLEWKPKPNPPQLLDDHFGP
HGLVFRRTFAIRSYEVGPDRSTSIVAVMNHLQEAALNHAKSVGILGDGFGTTLEMSKR
DLIWWKRTHVAVERYPAWGDTVEVECWVGASGNNGRRHDFLVRDCKTGEILTRCTSL
SVMMNTRTRRLSKIPEEVRGEIGPAFIDNVAVKDEEIKKPQKLNDSTADYIQGGLTPR
WNDLDINQHVNNIKYVDWILETVPDSIFESHHISSFTIEYRRECTMDSVLQSLTTVSG
GSSEAGLVCEHLLQLEGGSEVLRAKTEWRPKLTDSFRGISVIPAESSV
SEQ ID NO: 224
acyl-ACP thioesterase [Myristica fragrans]. Genbank ACCESSION AAB71729
                                                 318

VERSION   AAB71729.1
MVATSAASAF  FPVASPSPVK   PSMMLGGGGG   SDNLDARGIK   SRPASSGGLQ   VKANAHTVPK
INGNKAGLLT  PMESTKDEDI   VAAPTVAPKR   TFINQLPDWS   MLLAAITTIF   LAAEKQWTNL
DWKPRRPDML  VDFDPFSLGR   FVQDGLIFRQ  NFSIRSYEIG    ADRTASIETL   MNHLQETALN
HVRCIGLLDD  GFGSTPEMTR   RDLIWVVTRM   QVLVDRYPSW   GDVIEVDSWV   TPSGKNGMKR
EWFLRDCKTG  EILTRATSVW   VMMNKRTRRL   SKIPEEVRVE   IEPYFVEHGV   LDEDSRKLPK
LNDNTANYIR  RGLAPRWSDL   DVNQHVNNVK   YIGWILESVP   SSLLESHELY   GMTLEYRKEC
GKDGLLQSLT  AVASDYGGGS   LEAGVECDHL   LRLEDGSEIM   RGKTEWRPKR   AANTTYFGSV
DDIPPANNA
SEQ ID NO: 225
pSZ1420
        1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA  GCAGAGCGAG  GTATGTAGGC  GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT  ACACTAGAAG  GACAGTATTT  GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA  GAGTTGGTAG  CTCTTGATCC  GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT  GCAAGCAGCA  GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA  CGGGGTCTGA  CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT  CAAAAAGGAT  CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA  GTATATATGA  GTAAACTTGG  TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT  CAGCGATCTG  TCTATTTCGT  TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA  CGATACGGGA  GGGCTTACCA  TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT  CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA   GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG  GTCCTGCAAC  TTTATCCGCC  TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA  GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT   TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT  CACGCTCGTC  GTTTGGTATG  GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA  CATGATCCCC  CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
      841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA  GAAGTAAGTT  GGCCGCAGTG  TTATCACTCA
      901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA  CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA   TGCTTTTCTG
      961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT  GAGAATAGTG  TATGCGGCGA  CCGAGTTGCT
     1021 CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG  CGCCACATAG  CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
     1081 TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC  TCTCAAGGAT  CTTACCGCTG  TTGAGATCCA
     1141 GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT  GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT   TTCACCAGCG
     1201 TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA  ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA  AGGGCGACAC
     1261 GG~.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT  TTCAATATTA  TTGAAGCATT  TATCAGGGTT
     1321 ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT  GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA  ATAGGGGTTC
     1381 CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG  ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT  ATCATGACAT
     1441 TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC  CCTTTCGTCT  CGCGCGTTTC  GGTGATGACG
     1501 GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG  AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG   TAAGCGGATG
     1561 CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT  CAGCGGGTGT  TGGCGGGTGT  CGGGGCTGGC
     1621 TT~.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC  TGAGAGTGCA  CCATATGCGG  TGTGAAATAC
     1681 CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA  TCAGGCGCCA  TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
     1741 ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT  CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG   GCGAAAGGGG
     1801 GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA  CGCCAGGGTT  TTCCCAGTCA  CGACGTTGTA
     1861 AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC  TTCGCCGCCG  CCACTCCTGC  TCGAGCGCGC
     1921 CCGCGCGTGC  GCCGCCAGCG CCTTGGCCTT  TTCGCCGCGC  TCGTGCGCGT  CGCTGATGTC
     1981 CATCACCAGG  TCCATGAGGT CTGCCTTGCG  CCGGCTGAGC  CACTGCTTCG  TCCGGGCGGC
     2041 CAAGAGGAGC  ATGAGGGAGG ACTCCTGGTC  CAGGGTCCTG ACGTGGTCGC   GGCTCTGGGA
     2101 GCGGGCCAGC  ATCATCTGGC TCTGCCGCAC  CGAGGCCGCC  TCCAACTGGT  CCTCCAGCAG
     2161 CCGCAGTCGC  CGCCGACCCT GGCAGAGGAA  GACAGGTGAG  GGGGGTATGA ATTGTACAGA
     2221 AC~.ACCACGA GCCTTGTCTA GGCAGAATCC  CTACCAGTCA  TGGCTTTACC  TGGATGACGG
     2281 CCTGCGAACA  GCTGTCCAGC GACCCTCGCT  GCCGCCGCTT  CTCCCGCACG  CTTCTTTCCA
     2341 GCACCGTGAT  GGCGCGAGCC AGCGCCGCAC  GCTGGCGCTG  CGCTTCGCCG ATCTGAGGAC
     2401 AGTCGGGGAA  CTCTGATCAG TCTAAACCCC  CTTGCGCGTT AGTGTTGCCA   TCCTTTGCAG
     2461 ACCGGTGAGA  GCCGACTTGT TGTGCGCCAC  CCCCCACACC ACCTCCTCCC  AGACCAATTC
     2521 TGTCACCTTT  TTGGCGAAGG CATCGGCCTC  GGCCTGCAGA  GAGGACAGCA  GTGCCCAGCC
     2581 GCTGGGGGTT  GGCGGATGCA CGCTCAGGTA  CCCTTTCTTG  CGCTATGACA  CTTCCAGCAA
     2641 AAGGTAGGGC  GGGCTGCGAG ACGGCTTCCC  GGCGCTGCAT  GCAACACCGA  TGATGCTTCG
     2701 ACCCCCCGAA  GCTCCTTCGG GGCTGCATGG  GCGCTCCGAT  GCCGCTCCAG  GGCGAGCGCT
                                      319

2761 GTTTAAATAG  CCAGGCCCCC GATTGCAAAG ACATTATAGC GAGCTACCAA AGCCATATTC
2821 AAACACCTAG  ATCACTACCA CTTCTACACA GGCCACTCGA GCTTGTGATC GCACTCCGCT
2881 AAGGGGGCGC  CTCTTCCTCT TCGTTTCAGT CACAACCCGC AAACTCTAGA ATATCAATGC
2941 TGCTGCAGGC  CTTCCTGTTC CTGCTGGCCG GCTTCGCCGC CAAGATCAGC GCCTCCATGA
3001 CGP.ACGAGAC GTCCGACCGC CCCCTGGTGC ACTTCACCCC CAACAAGGGC TGGATGAACG
3061 ACCCCAACGG  CCTGTGGTAC GACGAGAAGG ACGCCAAGTG GCACCTGTAC TTCCAGTACA
3121 ACCCGAACGA  CACCGTCTGG GGGACGCCCT TGTTCTGGGG CCACGCCACG TCCGACGACC
3181 TGACCAACTG  GGAGGACCAG CCCATCGCCA TCGCCCCGAA GCGCAACGAC TCCGGCGCCT
3241 TCTCCGGCTC  CATGGTGGTG GACTACAACA ACACCTCCGG CTTCTTCAAC GACACCATCG
3301 ACCCGCGCCA  GCGCTGCGTG GCCATCTGGA CCTACAACAC CCCGGAGTCC GAGGAGCAGT
3361 ACATCTCCTA  CAGCCTGGAC GGCGGCTACA CCTTCACCGA GTACCAGAAG AACCCCGTGC
3421 TGGCCGCCAA  CTCCACCCAG TTCCGCGACC CGAAGGTCTT CTGGTACGAG CCCTCCCAGA
3481 AGTGGATCAT  GACCGCGGCC AAGTCCCAGG ACTACAAGAT CGAGATCTAC TCCTCCGACG
3541 ACCTGAAGTC  CTGGAAGCTG GAGTCCGCGT TCGCCAACGA GGGCTTCCTC GGCTACCAGT
3601 ACGAGTGCCC  CGGCCTGATC GAGGTCCCCA CCGAGCAGGA CCCCAGCAAG TCCTACTGGG
3661 TGATGTTCAT  CTCCATCAAC CCCGGCGCCC CGGCCGGCGG CTCCTTCAAC CAGTACTTCG
3721 TCGGCAGCTT  CAACGGCACC CACTTCGAGG CCTTCGACAA CCAGTCCCGC GTGGTGGACT
3781 TCGGCAAGGA  CTACTACGCC CTGCAGACCT TCTTCAACAC CGACCCGACC TACGGGAGCG
3841 CCCTGGGCAT  CGCGTGGGCC TCCAACTGGG AGTACTCCGC CTTCGTGCCC ACCAACCCCT
3901 GGCGCTCCTC  CATGTCCCTC GTGCGCAAGT TCTCCCTCAA CACCGAGTAC CAGGCCAACC
3961 CGGAGACGGA  GCTGATCAAC CTGAAGGCCG AGCCGATCCT GAACATCAGC AACGCCGGCC
4021 CCTGGAGCCG  GTTCGCCACC AACACCACGT TGACGAAGGC CAACAGCTAC AACGTCGACC
4081 TGTCCAACAG  CACCGGCACC CTGGAGTTCG AGCTGGTGTA CGCCGTCAAC ACCACCCAGA
4141 CGATCTCCAA  GTCCGTGTTC GCGGACCTCT CCCTCTGGTT CAAGGGCCTG GAGGACCCCG
4201 AGGAGTACCT  CCGCATGGGC TTCGAGGTGT CCGCGTCCTC CTTCTTCCTG GACCGCGGGA
4261 ACAGCAAGGT  GAAGTTCGTG AAGGAGAACC CCTACTTCAC CAACCGCATG AGCGTGAACA
4321 ACCAGCCCTT  CAAGAGCGAG AACGACCTGT CCTACTACAA GGTGTACGGC TTGCTGGACC
4381 AGP.ACATCCT GGAGCTGTAC TTCAACGACG GCGACGTCGT GTCCACCAAC ACCTACTTCA
4441 TGACCACCGG  GAACGCCCTG GGCTCCGTGA ACATGACGAC GGGGGTGGAC AACCTGTTCT
4501 ACATCGACAA  GTTCCAGGTG CGCGAGGTCA AGTGACAATT GGCAGCAGCA GCTCGGATAG
4561 TATCGACACA  CTCTGGACGC TGGTCGTGTG ATGGACTGTT GCCGCCACAC TTGCTGCCTT
4621 GACCTGTGAA  TATCCCTGCC GCTTTTATCA AACAGCCTCA GTGTGTTTGA TCTTGTGTGT
4681 ACGCGCTTTT  GCGAGTTGCT AGCTGCTTGT GCTATTTGCG AATACCACCC CCAGCATCCC
4741 CTTCCCTCGT  TTCATATCGC TTGCATCCCA ACCGCAACTT ATCTACGCTG TCCTGCTATC
4801 CCTCAGCGCT  GCTCCTGCTC CTGCTCACTG CCCCTCGCAC AGCCTTGGTT TGGGCTCCGC
4861 CTGTATTCTC  CTGGTACTGC AACCTGTAAA CCAGCACTGC AATGCTGATG CACGGGAAGT
4921 AGTGGGATGG  GAACACAAAT GGAGGATCCC GCGTCTCGAA CAGAGCGCGC AGAGGAACGC
4981 TGP.AGGTCTC GCCTCTGTCG CACCTCAGCG CGGCATACAC CACAATAACC ACCTGACGAA
5041 TGCGCTTGGT  TCTTCGTCCA TTAGCGAAGC GTCCGGTTCA CACACGTGCC ACGTTGGCGA
5101 GGTGGCAGGT  GACAATGATC GGTGGAGCTG ATGGTCGAAA CGTTCACAGC CTAGGGATAT
5161 CGP.ATTCCTT TCTTGCGCTA TGACACTTCC AGCAAAAGGT AGGGCGGGCT GCGAGACGGC
5221 TTCCCGGCGC  TGCATGCAAC ACCGATGATG CTTCGACCCC CCGAAGCTCC TTCGGGGCTG
5281 CATGGGCGCT  CCGATGCCGC TCCAGGGCGA GCGCTGTTTA AATAGCCAGG CCCCCGATTG
5341 CAP.AGACATT ATAGCGAGCT ACCAAAGCCA TATTCAAACA CCTAGATCAC TACCACTTCT
5401 ACACAGGCCA  CTCGAGCTTG TGATCGCACT CCGCTAAGGG GGCGCCTCTT CCTCTTCGTT
5461 TCAGTCACAA  CCCGCAAACA CTAGTATGGC CACCGCATCC ACTTTCTCGG CGTTCAATGC
5521 CCGCTGCGGC  GACCTGCGTC GCTCGGCGGG CTCCGGGCCC CGGCGCCCAG CGAGGCCCCT
5581 CCCCGTGCGC  GGGCGCGCCA CCCAGGAGGA CGCCCACTCC GCCCCCCCCC CCCGCACCTT
5641 CATCAACCAG  CTGCCCGACT GGTCCATGCT GCTGGCCGCC ATCACCACCG TGTTCCTGGC
5701 CGCCGAGAAG  CAGTGGATGA TGCTGGACTG GAAGCCCAAG CGCCCCGACA TGCTGGTGGA
5761 CCCCTTCGGC  CTGGGCTCCA TCGTGCAGGA CGGCCTGGTG TTCCGCCAGA ACTTCTCCAT
5821 CCGCTCCTAC  GAGATCGGCG CCGACCGCAC CGCCTCCATC GAGACCGTGA TGAACCACCT
5881 GCAGGAGACC  GCCCTGAACC ACGTGAAGAT CGCCGGCCTG TCCAACGACG GCTTCGGCCG
5941 CACCCCCGAG  ATGTACAAGC GCGACCTGAT CTGGGTGGTG GCCAAGATGC AGGTGATGGT
6001 GAACCGCTAC  CCCACCTGGG GCGACACCGT GGAGGTGAAC ACCTGGGTGG CCAAGTCCGG
6061 CAAGAACGGC  ATGCGCCGCG ACTGGCTGAT CTCCGACTGC AACACCGGCG AGATCCTGAC
6121 CCGCGCCTCC  TCCGTGTGGG TGATGATGAA CCAGAAGACC CGCCGCCTGT CCAAGATCCC
6181 CGACGAGGTG  CGCAACGAGA TCGAGCCCCA CTTCGTGGAC TCCCCCCCCG TGATCGAGGA
6241 CGACGACCGC  AAGCTGCCCA AGCTGGACGA GAAGACCGCC GACTCCATCC GCAAGGGCCT
6301 GACCCCCCGC  TGGAACGACC TGGACGTGAA CCAGCACGTG AACAACGTGA AGTACATCGG
6361 CTGGATCCTG  GAGTCCACCC CCCCCGAGGT GCTGGAGACC CAGGAGCTGT GCTCCCTGAC
                                 320

     6421 CCTGGAGTAC  CGCCGCGAGT GCGGCCGCGA GTCCGTGCTG GAGTCCCTGA CCGCCATGGA
     6481 CCCCTCCGGC  GGCGGCTACG GCTCCCAGTT CCAGCACCTG CTGCGCCTGG AGGACGGCGG
     6541 CGAGATCGTG  AAGGGCCGCA CCGAGTGGCG CCCCAAGAAC GGCGTGATCA ACGGCGTGGT
     6601 GCCCACCGGC  GAGTCCTCCC CCGGCGACTA CTCCATGGAC TACAAGGACC ACGACGGCGA
     6661 CTACAAGGAC  CACGACATCG ACTACAAGGA CGACGACGAC AAGTGAATCG ATAGATCTCT
     6721 TAAGGCAGCA  GCAGCTCGGA TAGTATCGAC ACACTCTGGA CGCTGGTCGT GTGATGGACT
     6781 GTTGCCGCCA  CACTTGCTGC CTTGACCTGT GAATATCCCT GCCGCTTTTA TCAAACAGCC
     6841 TCAGTGTGTT  TGATCTTGTG TGTACGCGCT TTTGCGAGTT GCTAGCTGCT TGTGCTATTT
     6901 GCGAATACCA  CCCCCAGCAT CCCCTTCCCT CGTTTCATAT CGCTTGCATC CCAACCGCAA
     6961 CTTATCTACG  CTGTCCTGCT ATCCCTCAGC GCTGCTCCTG CTCCTGCTCA CTGCCCCTCG
     7021 CACAGCCTTG  GTTTGGGCTC CGCCTGTATT CTCCTGGTAC TGCAACCTGT AAACCAGCAC
     7081 TGCAATGCTG  ATGCACGGGA AGTAGTGGGA TGGGAACACA AATGGAAAGC TTAATTAAGA
     7141 GCTCTTGTTT  TCCAGAAGGA GTTGCTCCTT GAGCCTTTCA TTCTCAGCCT CGATAACCTC
     7201 CAP.AGCCGCT CTAATTGTGG AGGGGGTTCG AATTTAAAAG CTTGGAATGT TGGTTCGTGC
     7261 GTCTGGAACA  AGCCCAGACT TGTTGCTCAC TGGGAAAAGG ACCATCAGCT CCAAAAAACT
     7321 TGCCGCTCAA  ACCGCGTACC TCTGCTTTCG CGCAATCTGC CCTGTTGAAA TCGCCACCAC
     7381 ATTCATATTG  TGACGCTTGA GCAGTCTGTA ATTGCCTCAG AATGTGGAAT CATCTGCCCC
     7441 CTGTGCGAGC  CCATGCCAGG CATGTCGCGG GCGAGGACAC CCGCCACTCG TACAGCAGAC
     7501 CATTATGCTA  CCTCACAATA GTTCATAACA GTGACCATAT TTCTCGAAGC TCCCCAACGA
     7561 GCACCTCCAT  GCTCTGAGTG GCCACCCCCC GGCCCTGGTG CTTGCGGAGG GCAGGTCAAC
     7621 CGGCATGGGG  CTACCGAAAT CCCCGACCGG ATCCCACCAC CCCCGCGATG GGAAGAATCT
     7681 CTCCCCGGGA  TGTGGGCCCA CCACCAGCAC AACCTGCTGG CCCAGGCGAG CGTCAAACCA
     7741 TACCACACAA  ATATCCTTGG CATCGGCCCT GAATTCCTTC TGCCGCTCTG CTACCCGGTG
     7801 CTTCTGTCCG  AAGCAGGGGT TGCTAGGGAT CGCTCCGAGT CCGCAAACCC TTGTCGCGTG
     7861 GCGGGGCTTG  TTCGAGCTTG AAGAGCCTCT AGAGTCGACC TGCAGGCATG CAAGCTTGGC
     7921 GTP.ATCATGG TCATAGCTGT TTCCTGTGTG AAATTGTTAT CCGCTCACAA TTCCACACAA
     7981 CATACGAGCC  GGAAGCATAA AGTGTAAAGC CTGGGGTGCC TAATGAGTGA GCTAACTCAC
     8041 ATTAATTGCG  TTGCGCTCAC TGCCCGCTTT CCAGTCGGGA AACCTGTCGT GCCAGCTGCA
     8101 TTP.ATGAATC GGCCAACGCG CGGGGAGAGG CGGTTTGCGT ATTGGGCGCT CTTCCGCTTC
     8161 CTCGCTCACT  GACTCGCTGC GCTCGGTCGT TCGGCTGCGG CGAGCGGTAT CAGCTCACTC
     8221 AAAGGCGGTA  ATACGGTTAT CCACAGAATC AGGGGATAAC GCAGGAAAGA ACATGTGAGC
     8281 AAP.AGGCCAG CAAAAGGCCA GGAACCGTAA AAAGGCCGCG TTGCTGGCGT TTTTCCATAG
     8341 GCTCCGCCCC  CCTGACGAGC ATCACAAAAA TCGACGCTCA AGTCAGAGGT GGCGAAACCC
     8401 GACAGGACTA  TAAAGATACC AGGCGTTTCC CCCTGGAAGC TCCCTCGTGC GCTCTCCTGT
     8461 TCCGACCCTG  CCGCTTACCG GATACCTGTC CGCCTTTCTC CCTTCGGGAA GCGTGGCGCT
     8521 TTCTCATAGC  TCACGCTGTA GGTATCTCAG TTCGGTGTAG GTCGTTCGCT CCAAGCTGGG
     8581 CTGTGTGCAC  GAACCCCCCG TTCAGCCCGA CCGCTGCGCC TTATCCGGTA ACTATCGTCT
     8641 TGAGTCCAAC  CCGGTAAGAC ACGACTTATC GC
SEQ ID NO: 226
pSZ1417
        1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
      841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
      901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
      961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
     1021 CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
                                      321

1081 TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
1141 GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
1201 TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
1261 GGP.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
1321 ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
1381 CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
1441 TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
1501 GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
1561 CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
1621 TTP.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
1681 CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
1741 ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
1801 GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
1861 AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCGCCGCCG CCACTCCTGC TCGAGCGCGC
1921 CCGCGCGTGC  GCCGCCAGCG CCTTGGCCTT TTCGCCGCGC TCGTGCGCGT CGCTGATGTC
1981 CATCACCAGG  TCCATGAGGT CTGCCTTGCG CCGGCTGAGC CACTGCTTCG TCCGGGCGGC
2041 CAAGAGGAGC  ATGAGGGAGG ACTCCTGGTC CAGGGTCCTG ACGTGGTCGC GGCTCTGGGA
2101 GCGGGCCAGC  ATCATCTGGC TCTGCCGCAC CGAGGCCGCC TCCAACTGGT CCTCCAGCAG
2161 CCGCAGTCGC  CGCCGACCCT GGCAGAGGAA GACAGGTGAG GGGGGTATGA ATTGTACAGA
2221 ACP.ACCACGA GCCTTGTCTA GGCAGAATCC CTACCAGTCA TGGCTTTACC TGGATGACGG
2281 CCTGCGAACA  GCTGTCCAGC GACCCTCGCT GCCGCCGCTT CTCCCGCACG CTTCTTTCCA
2341 GCACCGTGAT  GGCGCGAGCC AGCGCCGCAC GCTGGCGCTG CGCTTCGCCG ATCTGAGGAC
2401 AGTCGGGGAA  CTCTGATCAG TCTAAACCCC CTTGCGCGTT AGTGTTGCCA TCCTTTGCAG
2461 ACCGGTGAGA  GCCGACTTGT TGTGCGCCAC CCCCCACACC ACCTCCTCCC AGACCAATTC
2521 TGTCACCTTT  TTGGCGAAGG CATCGGCCTC GGCCTGCAGA GAGGACAGCA GTGCCCAGCC
2581 GCTGGGGGTT  GGCGGATGCA CGCTCAGGTA CCCTTTCTTG CGCTATGACA CTTCCAGCAA
2641 AAGGTAGGGC  GGGCTGCGAG ACGGCTTCCC GGCGCTGCAT GCAACACCGA TGATGCTTCG
2701 ACCCCCCGAA  GCTCCTTCGG GGCTGCATGG GCGCTCCGAT GCCGCTCCAG GGCGAGCGCT
2761 GTTTAAATAG  CCAGGCCCCC GATTGCAAAG ACATTATAGC GAGCTACCAA AGCCATATTC
2821 AAACACCTAG  ATCACTACCA CTTCTACACA GGCCACTCGA GCTTGTGATC GCACTCCGCT
2881 AAGGGGGCGC  CTCTTCCTCT TCGTTTCAGT CACAACCCGC AAACGGCGCG CCATGCTGCT
2941 GCAGGCCTTC  CTGTTCCTGC TGGCCGGCTT CGCCGCCAAG ATCAGCGCCT CCATGACGAA
3001 CGAGACGTCC  GACCGCCCCC TGGTGCACTT CACCCCCAAC AAGGGCTGGA TGAACGACCC
3061 CAACGGCCTG  TGGTACGACG AGAAGGACGC CAAGTGGCAC CTGTACTTCC AGTACAACCC
3121 GAACGACACC  GTCTGGGGGA CGCCCTTGTT CTGGGGCCAC GCCACGTCCG ACGACCTGAC
3181 CAACTGGGAG  GACCAGCCCA TCGCCATCGC CCCGAAGCGC AACGACTCCG GCGCCTTCTC
3241 CGGCTCCATG  GTGGTGGACT ACAACAACAC CTCCGGCTTC TTCAACGACA CCATCGACCC
3301 GCGCCAGCGC  TGCGTGGCCA TCTGGACCTA CAACACCCCG GAGTCCGAGG AGCAGTACAT
3361 CTCCTACAGC  CTGGACGGCG GCTACACCTT CACCGAGTAC CAGAAGAACC CCGTGCTGGC
3421 CGCCAACTCC  ACCCAGTTCC GCGACCCGAA GGTCTTCTGG TACGAGCCCT CCCAGAAGTG
3481 GATCATGACC  GCGGCCAAGT CCCAGGACTA CAAGATCGAG ATCTACTCCT CCGACGACCT
3541 GAAGTCCTGG  AAGCTGGAGT CCGCGTTCGC CAACGAGGGC TTCCTCGGCT ACCAGTACGA
3601 GTGCCCCGGC  CTGATCGAGG TCCCCACCGA GCAGGACCCC AGCAAGTCCT ACTGGGTGAT
3661 GTTCATCTCC  ATCAACCCCG GCGCCCCGGC CGGCGGCTCC TTCAACCAGT ACTTCGTCGG
3721 CAGCTTCAAC  GGCACCCACT TCGAGGCCTT CGACAACCAG TCCCGCGTGG TGGACTTCGG
3781 CAAGGACTAC  TACGCCCTGC AGACCTTCTT CAACACCGAC CCGACCTACG GGAGCGCCCT
3841 GGGCATCGCG  TGGGCCTCCA ACTGGGAGTA CTCCGCCTTC GTGCCCACCA ACCCCTGGCG
3901 CTCCTCCATG  TCCCTCGTGC GCAAGTTCTC CCTCAACACC GAGTACCAGG CCAACCCGGA
3961 GACGGAGCTG  ATCAACCTGA AGGCCGAGCC GATCCTGAAC ATCAGCAACG CCGGCCCCTG
4021 GAGCCGGTTC  GCCACCAACA CCACGTTGAC GAAGGCCAAC AGCTACAACG TCGACCTGTC
4081 CAACAGCACC  GGCACCCTGG AGTTCGAGCT GGTGTACGCC GTCAACACCA CCCAGACGAT
4141 CTCCAAGTCC  GTGTTCGCGG ACCTCTCCCT CTGGTTCAAG GGCCTGGAGG ACCCCGAGGA
4201 GTACCTCCGC  ATGGGCTTCG AGGTGTCCGC GTCCTCCTTC TTCCTGGACC GCGGGAACAG
4261 CAAGGTGAAG  TTCGTGAAGG AGAACCCCTA CTTCACCAAC CGCATGAGCG TGAACAACCA
4321 GCCCTTCAAG  AGCGAGAACG ACCTGTCCTA CTACAAGGTG TACGGCTTGC TGGACCAGAA
4381 CATCCTGGAG  CTGTACTTCA ACGACGGCGA CGTCGTGTCC ACCAACACCT ACTTCATGAC
4441 CACCGGGAAC  GCCCTGGGCT CCGTGAACAT GACGACGGGG GTGGACAACC TGTTCTACAT
4501 CGACAAGTTC  CAGGTGCGCG AGGTCAAGTG ACAATTGGCA GCAGCAGCTC GGATAGTATC
4561 GACACACTCT  GGACGCTGGT CGTGTGATGG ACTGTTGCCG CCACACTTGC TGCCTTGACC
4621 TGTGAATATC  CCTGCCGCTT TTATCAAACA GCCTCAGTGT GTTTGATCTT GTGTGTACGC
4681 GCTTTTGCGA  GTTGCTAGCT GCTTGTGCTA TTTGCGAATA CCACCCCCAG CATCCCCTTC
                                 322

4741 CCTCGTTTCA  TATCGCTTGC ATCCCAACCG CAACTTATCT ACGCTGTCCT GCTATCCCTC
4801 AGCGCTGCTC  CTGCTCCTGC TCACTGCCCC TCGCACAGCC TTGGTTTGGG CTCCGCCTGT
4861 ATTCTCCTGG  TACTGCAACC TGTAAACCAG CACTGCAATG CTGATGCACG GGAAGTAGTG
4921 GGATGGGAAC  ACAAATGGAG GATCCCGCGT CTCGAACAGA GCGCGCAGAG GAACGCTGAA
4981 GGTCTCGCCT  CTGTCGCACC TCAGCGCGGC ATACACCACA ATAACCACCT GACGAATGCG
5041 CTTGGTTCTT  CGTCCATTAG CGAAGCGTCC GGTTCACACA CGTGCCACGT TGGCGAGGTG
5101 GCAGGTGACA  ATGATCGGTG GAGCTGATGG TCGAAACGTT CACAGCCTAG GGATATCGAA
5161 TTCGGCCGAC  AGGACGCGCG TCAAAGGTGC TGGTCGTGTA TGCCCTGGCC GGCAGGTCGT
5221 TGCTGCTGCT  GGTTAGTGAT TCCGCAACCC TGATTTTGGC GTCTTATTTT GGCGTGGCAA
5281 ACGCTGGCGC  CCGCGAGCCG GGCCGGCGGC GATGCGGTGC CCCACGGCTG CCGGAATCCA
5341 AGGGAGGCAA  GAGCGCCCGG GTCAGTTGAA GGGCTTTACG CGCAAGGTAC AGCCGCTCCT
5401 GCP.AGGCTGC GTGGTGGAAT TGGACGTGCA GGTCCTGCTG AAGTTCCTCC ACCGCCTCAC
5461 CAGCGGACAA  AGCACCGGTG TATCAGGTCC GTGTCATCCA CTCTAAAGAA CTCGACTACG
5521 ACCTACTGAT  GGCCCTAGAT TCTTCATCAA AAACGCCTGA GACACTTGCC CAGGATTGAA
5581 ACTCCCTGAA  GGGACCACCA GGGGCCCTGA GTTGTTCCTT CCCCCCGTGG CGAGCTGCCA
5641 GCCAGGCTGT  ACCTGTGATC GAGGCTGGCG GGAAAATAGG CTTCGTGTGC TCAGGTCATG
5701 GGAGGTGCAG  GACAGCTCAT GAAACGCCAA CAATCGCACA ATTCATGTCA AGCTAATCAG
5761 CTATTTCCTC  TTCACGAGCT GTAATTGTCC CAAAATTCTG GTCTACCGGG GGTGATCCTT
5821 CGTGTACGGG  CCCTTCCCTC AACCCTAGGT ATGCGCGCAT GCGGTCGCCG CGCAACTCGC
5881 GCGAGGGCCG  AGGGTTTGGG ACGGGCCGTC CCGAAATGCA GTTGCACCCG GATGCGTGGC
5941 ACCTTTTTTG  CGATAATTTA TGCAATGGAC TGCTCTGCAA AATTCTGGCT CTGTCGCCAA
6001 CCCTAGGATC  AGCGGCGTAG GATTTCGTAA TCATTCGTCC TGATGGGGAG CTACCGACTA
6061 CCCTAATATC  AGCCCGACTG CCTGACGCCA GCGTCCACTT TTGTGCACAC ATTCCATTCG
6121 TGCCCAAGAC  ATTTCATTGT GGTGCGAAGC GTCCCCAGTT ACGCTCACCT GTTTCCCGAC
6181 CTCCTTACTG  TTCTGTCGAC AGAGCGGGCC CACAGGCCGG TCGCAGCCAC TAGTATGGTG
6241 GCCACCGCCG  CCTCCTCCGC CTTCTTCCCC CTGCCCTCCG CCGACACCTC CTCCCGCCCC
6301 GGCAAGCTGG  GCAACAAGCC CTCCTCCCTG TCCCCCCTGA AGCCCAAGTC CACCCCCAAC
6361 GGCGGCCTGC  AGGTGAAGGC CAACGCCTCC GCCCCCCCCA AGATCAACGG CTCCCCCGTG
6421 GGCCTGAAGT  CCGGCGGCCT GAAGGGGCGC GCCACCCAGG AGGACGCCCA CTCCGCCCCC
6481 CCCCCCCGCA  CCTTCATCAA CCAGCTGCCC GACTGGTCCA TGCTGCTGGC CGCCATCACC
6541 ACCGTGTTCC  TGGCCGCCGA GAAGCAGTGG ATGATGCTGG ACTGGAAGCC CAAGCGCCCC
6601 GACATGCTGG  TGGACCCCTT CGGCCTGGGC TCCATCGTGC AGGACGGCCT GGTGTTCCGC
6661 CAGAACTTCT  CCATCCGCTC CTACGAGATC GGCGCCGACC GCACCGCCTC CATCGAGACC
6721 GTGATGAACC  ACCTGCAGGA GACCGCCCTG AACCACGTGA AGATCGCCGG CCTGTCCAAC
6781 GACGGCTTCG  GCCGCACCCC CGAGATGTAC AAGCGCGACC TGATCTGGGT GGTGGCCAAG
6841 ATGCAGGTGA  TGGTGAACCG CTACCCCACC TGGGGCGACA CCGTGGAGGT GAACACCTGG
6901 GTGGCCAAGT  CCGGCAAGAA CGGCATGCGC CGCGACTGGC TGATCTCCGA CTGCAACACC
6961 GGCGAGATCC  TGACCCGCGC CTCCTCCGTG TGGGTGATGA TGAACCAGAA GACCCGCCGC
7021 CTGTCCAAGA  TCCCCGACGA GGTGCGCAAC GAGATCGAGC CCCACTTCGT GGACTCCCCC
7081 CCCGTGATCG  AGGACGACGA CCGCAAGCTG CCCAAGCTGG ACGAGAAGAC CGCCGACTCC
7141 ATCCGCAAGG  GCCTGACCCC CCGCTGGAAC GACCTGGACG TGAACCAGCA CGTGAACAAC
7201 GTGAAGTACA  TCGGCTGGAT CCTGGAGTCC ACCCCCCCCG AGGTGCTGGA GACCCAGGAG
7261 CTGTGCTCCC  TGACCCTGGA GTACCGCCGC GAGTGCGGCC GCGAGTCCGT GCTGGAGTCC
7321 CTGACCGCCA  TGGACCCCTC CGGCGGCGGC TACGGCTCCC AGTTCCAGCA CCTGCTGCGC
7381 CTGGAGGACG  GCGGCGAGAT CGTGAAGGGC CGCACCGAGT GGCGCCCCAA GAACGGCGTG
7441 ATCAACGGCG  TGGTGCCCAC CGGCGAGTCC TCCCCCGGCG ACTACTCCAT GGACTACAAG
7501 GACCACGACG  GCGACTACAA GGACCACGAC ATCGACTACA AGGACGACGA CGACAAGTGA
7561 ATCGATAGAT  CTCTTAAGGC AGCAGCAGCT CGGATAGTAT CGACACACTC TGGACGCTGG
7621 TCGTGTGATG  GACTGTTGCC GCCACACTTG CTGCCTTGAC CTGTGAATAT CCCTGCCGCT
7681 TTTATCAAAC  AGCCTCAGTG TGTTTGATCT TGTGTGTACG CGCTTTTGCG AGTTGCTAGC
7741 TGCTTGTGCT  ATTTGCGAAT ACCACCCCCA GCATCCCCTT CCCTCGTTTC ATATCGCTTG
7801 CATCCCAACC  GCAACTTATC TACGCTGTCC TGCTATCCCT CAGCGCTGCT CCTGCTCCTG
7861 CTCACTGCCC  CTCGCACAGC CTTGGTTTGG GCTCCGCCTG TATTCTCCTG GTACTGCAAC
7921 CTGTAAACCA  GCACTGCAAT GCTGATGCAC GGGAAGTAGT GGGATGGGAA CACAAATGGA
7981 AAGCTTAATT  AAGAGCTCTT GTTTTCCAGA AGGAGTTGCT CCTTGAGCCT TTCATTCTCA
8041 GCCTCGATAA  CCTCCAAAGC CGCTCTAATT GTGGAGGGGG TTCGAATTTA AAAGCTTGGA
8101 ATGTTGGTTC  GTGCGTCTGG AACAAGCCCA GACTTGTTGC TCACTGGGAA AAGGACCATC
8161 AGCTCCAAAA  AACTTGCCGC TCAAACCGCG TACCTCTGCT TTCGCGCAAT CTGCCCTGTT
8221 GAP.ATCGCCA CCACATTCAT ATTGTGACGC TTGAGCAGTC TGTAATTGCC TCAGAATGTG
8281 GAATCATCTG  CCCCCTGTGC GAGCCCATGC CAGGCATGTC GCGGGCGAGG ACACCCGCCA
8341 CTCGTACAGC  AGACCATTAT GCTACCTCAC AATAGTTCAT AACAGTGACC ATATTTCTCG
                                 323

     8401 AAGCTCCCCA  ACGAGCACCT CCATGCTCTG AGTGGCCACC CCCCGGCCCT GGTGCTTGCG
     8461 GAGGGCAGGT  CAACCGGCAT GGGGCTACCG AAATCCCCGA CCGGATCCCA CCACCCCCGC
     8521 GATGGGAAGA  ATCTCTCCCC GGGATGTGGG CCCACCACCA GCACAACCTG CTGGCCCAGG
     8581 CGAGCGTCAA  ACCATACCAC ACAAATATCC TTGGCATCGG CCCTGAATTC CTTCTGCCGC
     8641 TCTGCTACCC  GGTGCTTCTG TCCGAAGCAG GGGTTGCTAG GGATCGCTCC GAGTCCGCAA
     8701 ACCCTTGTCG  CGTGGCGGGG CTTGTTCGAG CTTGAAGAGC CTCTAGAGTC GACCTGCAGG
     8761 CATGCAAGCT  TGGCGTAATC ATGGTCATAG CTGTTTCCTG TGTGAAATTG TTATCCGCTC
     8821 ACP.ATTCCAC ACAACATACG AGCCGGAAGC ATAAAGTGTA AAGCCTGGGG TGCCTAATGA
     8881 GTGAGCTAAC  TCACATTAAT TGCGTTGCGC TCACTGCCCG CTTTCCAGTC GGGAAACCTG
     8941 TCGTGCCAGC  TGCATTAATG AATCGGCCAA CGCGCGGGGA GAGGCGGTTT GCGTATTGGG
     9001 CGCTCTTCCG  CTTCCTCGCT CACTGACTCG CTGCGCTCGG TCGTTCGGCT GCGGCGAGCG
     9061 GTATCAGCTC  ACTCAAAGGC GGTAATACGG TTATCCACAG AATCAGGGGA TAACGCAGGA
     9121 AAGAACATGT  GAGCAAAAGG CCAGCAAAAG GCCAGGAACC GTAAAAAGGC CGCGTTGCTG
     9181 GCGTTTTTCC  ATAGGCTCCG CCCCCCTGAC GAGCATCACA AAAATCGACG CTCAAGTCAG
     9241 AGGTGGCGAA  ACCCGACAGG ACTATAAAGA TACCAGGCGT TTCCCCCTGG AAGCTCCCTC
     9301 GTGCGCTCTC  CTGTTCCGAC CCTGCCGCTT ACCGGATACC TGTCCGCCTT TCTCCCTTCG
     9361 GGP.AGCGTGG CGCTTTCTCA TAGCTCACGC TGTAGGTATC TCAGTTCGGT GTAGGTCGTT
     9421 CGCTCCAAGC  TGGGCTGTGT GCACGAACCC CCCGTTCAGC CCGACCGCTG CGCCTTATCC
     9481 GGTAACTATC  GTCTTGAGTC CAACCCGGTA AGACACGACT TATCG
SEQ ID NO: 227
pSZ1119
        1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
      841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
      901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
      961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
     1021 CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
     1081 TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
     1141 GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
     1201 TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
     1261 GGP.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
     1321 ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
     1381 CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
     1441 TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
     1501 GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
     1561 CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
     1621 TTP.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
     1681 CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
     1741 ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
     1801 GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
     1861 AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCGCCGCCG CCACTCCTGC TCGAGCGCGC
     1921 CCGCGCGTGC  GCCGCCAGCG CCTTGGCCTT TTCGCCGCGC TCGTGCGCGT CGCTGATGTC
     1981 CATCACCAGG  TCCATGAGGT CTGCCTTGCG CCGGCTGAGC CACTGCTTCG TCCGGGCGGC
     2041 CAAGAGGAGC  ATGAGGGAGG ACTCCTGGTC CAGGGTCCTG ACGTGGTCGC GGCTCTGGGA
     2101 GCGGGCCAGC  ATCATCTGGC TCTGCCGCAC CGAGGCCGCC TCCAACTGGT CCTCCAGCAG
     2161 CCGCAGTCGC  CGCCGACCCT GGCAGAGGAA GACAGGTGAG GGGGGTATGA ATTGTACAGA
                                      324

2221 ACPACCACGA GCCTTGTCTA GGCAGAATCC CTACCAGTCA TGGCTTTACC TGGATGACGG
2281 CCTGCGAACA GCTGTCCAGC GACCCTCGCT GCCGCCGCTT CTCCCGCACG CTTCTTTCCA
2341 GCACCGTGAT GGCGCGAGCC AGCGCCGCAC GCTGGCGCTG CGCTTCGCCG ATCTGAGGAC
2401 AGTCGGGGAA CTCTGATCAG TCTAAACCCC CTTGCGCGTT AGTGTTGCCA TCCTTTGCAG
2461 ACCGGTGAGA GCCGACTTGT TGTGCGCCAC CCCCCACACC ACCTCCTCCC AGACCAATTC
2521 TGTCACCTTT TTGGCGAAGG CATCGGCCTC GGCCTGCAGA GAGGACAGCA GTGCCCAGCC
2581 GCTGGGGGTT GGCGGATGCA CGCTCAGGTA CCCTTTCTTG CGCTATGACA CTTCCAGCAA
2641 AAGGTAGGGC GGGCTGCGAG ACGGCTTCCC GGCGCTGCAT GCAACACCGA TGATGCTTCG
2701 ACCCCCCGAA GCTCCTTCGG GGCTGCATGG GCGCTCCGAT GCCGCTCCAG GGCGAGCGCT
2761 GTTTAAATAG CCAGGCCCCC GATTGCAAAG ACATTATAGC GAGCTACCAA AGCCATATTC
2821 AAACACCTAG ATCACTACCA CTTCTACACA GGCCACTCGA GCTTGTGATC GCACTCCGCT
2881 AAGGGGGCGC CTCTTCCTCT TCGTTTCAGT CACAACCCGC AAACGGCGCG CCATGCTGCT
2941 GCAGGCCTTC CTGTTCCTGC TGGCCGGCTT CGCCGCCAAG ATCAGCGCCT CCATGACGAA
3001 CGAGACGTCC GACCGCCCCC TGGTGCACTT CACCCCCAAC AAGGGCTGGA TGAACGACCC
3061 CAACGGCCTG TGGTACGACG AGAAGGACGC CAAGTGGCAC CTGTACTTCC AGTACAACCC
3121 GAACGACACC GTCTGGGGGA CGCCCTTGTT CTGGGGCCAC GCCACGTCCG ACGACCTGAC
3181 CAACTGGGAG GACCAGCCCA TCGCCATCGC CCCGAAGCGC AACGACTCCG GCGCCTTCTC
3241 CGGCTCCATG GTGGTGGACT ACAACAACAC CTCCGGCTTC TTCAACGACA CCATCGACCC
3301 GCGCCAGCGC TGCGTGGCCA TCTGGACCTA CAACACCCCG GAGTCCGAGG AGCAGTACAT
3361 CTCCTACAGC CTGGACGGCG GCTACACCTT CACCGAGTAC CAGAAGAACC CCGTGCTGGC
3421 CGCCAACTCC ACCCAGTTCC GCGACCCGAA GGTCTTCTGG TACGAGCCCT CCCAGAAGTG
3481 GATCATGACC GCGGCCAAGT CCCAGGACTA CAAGATCGAG ATCTACTCCT CCGACGACCT
3541 GAAGTCCTGG AAGCTGGAGT CCGCGTTCGC CAACGAGGGC TTCCTCGGCT ACCAGTACGA
3601 GTGCCCCGGC CTGATCGAGG TCCCCACCGA GCAGGACCCC AGCAAGTCCT ACTGGGTGAT
3661 GTTCATCTCC ATCAACCCCG GCGCCCCGGC CGGCGGCTCC TTCAACCAGT ACTTCGTCGG
3721 CAGCTTCAAC GGCACCCACT TCGAGGCCTT CGACAACCAG TCCCGCGTGG TGGACTTCGG
3781 CAAGGACTAC TACGCCCTGC AGACCTTCTT CAACACCGAC CCGACCTACG GGAGCGCCCT
3841 GGGCATCGCG TGGGCCTCCA ACTGGGAGTA CTCCGCCTTC GTGCCCACCA ACCCCTGGCG
3901 CTCCTCCATG TCCCTCGTGC GCAAGTTCTC CCTCAACACC GAGTACCAGG CCAACCCGGA
3961 GACGGAGCTG ATCAACCTGA AGGCCGAGCC GATCCTGAAC ATCAGCAACG CCGGCCCCTG
4021 GAGCCGGTTC GCCACCAACA CCACGTTGAC GAAGGCCAAC AGCTACAACG TCGACCTGTC
4081 CAACAGCACC GGCACCCTGG AGTTCGAGCT GGTGTACGCC GTCAACACCA CCCAGACGAT
4141 CTCCAAGTCC GTGTTCGCGG ACCTCTCCCT CTGGTTCAAG GGCCTGGAGG ACCCCGAGGA
4201 GTACCTCCGC ATGGGCTTCG AGGTGTCCGC GTCCTCCTTC TTCCTGGACC GCGGGAACAG
4261 CAAGGTGAAG TTCGTGAAGG AGAACCCCTA CTTCACCAAC CGCATGAGCG TGAACAACCA
4321 GCCCTTCAAG AGCGAGAACG ACCTGTCCTA CTACAAGGTG TACGGCTTGC TGGACCAGAA
4381 CATCCTGGAG CTGTACTTCA ACGACGGCGA CGTCGTGTCC ACCAACACCT ACTTCATGAC
4441 CACCGGGAAC GCCCTGGGCT CCGTGAACAT GACGACGGGG GTGGACAACC TGTTCTACAT
4501 CGACAAGTTC CAGGTGCGCG AGGTCAAGTG ACAATTGGCA GCAGCAGCTC GGATAGTATC
4561 GACACACTCT GGACGCTGGT CGTGTGATGG ACTGTTGCCG CCACACTTGC TGCCTTGACC
4621 TGTGAATATC CCTGCCGCTT TTATCAAACA GCCTCAGTGT GTTTGATCTT GTGTGTACGC
4681 GCTTTTGCGA GTTGCTAGCT GCTTGTGCTA TTTGCGAATA CCACCCCCAG CATCCCCTTC
4741 CCTCGTTTCA TATCGCTTGC ATCCCAACCG CAACTTATCT ACGCTGTCCT GCTATCCCTC
4801 AGCGCTGCTC CTGCTCCTGC TCACTGCCCC TCGCACAGCC TTGGTTTGGG CTCCGCCTGT
4861 ATTCTCCTGG TACTGCAACC TGTAAACCAG CACTGCAATG CTGATGCACG GGAAGTAGTG
4921 GGATGGGAAC ACAAATGGAG GATCCCGCGT CTCGAACAGA GCGCGCAGAG GAACGCTGAA
4981 GGTCTCGCCT CTGTCGCACC TCAGCGCGGC ATACACCACA ATAACCACCT GACGAATGCG
5041 CTTGGTTCTT CGTCCATTAG CGAAGCGTCC GGTTCACACA CGTGCCACGT TGGCGAGGTG
5101 GCAGGTGACA ATGATCGGTG GAGCTGATGG TCGAAACGTT CACAGCCTAG GGATATCGAA
5161 TTCGGCCGAC AGGACGCGCG TCAAAGGTGC TGGTCGTGTA TGCCCTGGCC GGCAGGTCGT
5221 TGCTGCTGCT GGTTAGTGAT TCCGCAACCC TGATTTTGGC GTCTTATTTT GGCGTGGCAA
5281 ACGCTGGCGC CCGCGAGCCG GGCCGGCGGC GATGCGGTGC CCCACGGCTG CCGGAATCCA
5341 AGGGAGGCAA GAGCGCCCGG GTCAGTTGAA GGGCTTTACG CGCAAGGTAC AGCCGCTCCT
5401 GCPAGGCTGC GTGGTGGAAT TGGACGTGCA GGTCCTGCTG AAGTTCCTCC ACCGCCTCAC
5461 CAGCGGACAA AGCACCGGTG TATCAGGTCC GTGTCATCCA CTCTAAAGAG CTCGACTACG
5521 ACCTACTGAT GGCCCTAGAT TCTTCATCAA AAACGCCTGA GACACTTGCC CAGGATTGAA
5581 ACTCCCTGAA GGGACCACCA GGGGCCCTGA GTTGTTCCTT CCCCCCGTGG CGAGCTGCCA
5641 GCCAGGCTGT ACCTGTGATC GAGGCTGGCG GGAAAATAGG CTTCGTGTGC TCAGGTCATG
5701 GGAGGTGCAG GACAGCTCAT GAAACGCCAA CAATCGCACA ATTCATGTCA AGCTAATCAG
5761 CTATTTCCTC TTCACGAGCT GTAATTGTCC CAAAATTCTG GTCTACCGGG GGTGATCCTT
5821 CGTGTACGGG CCCTTCCCTC AACCCTAGGT ATGCGCGCAT GCGGTCGCCG CGCAACTCGC
                                325

     5881 GCGAGGGCCG AGGGTTTGGG ACGGGCCGTC CCGAAATGCA GTTGCACCCG GATGCGTGGC
     5941 ACCTTTTTTG CGATAATTTA TGCAATGGAC TGCTCTGCAA AATTCTGGCT CTGTCGCCAA
     6001 CCCTAGGATC AGCGGCGTAG GATTTCGTAA TCATTCGTCC TGATGGGGAG CTACCGACTA
     6061 CCCTAATATC AGCCCGACTG CCTGACGCCA GCGTCCACTT TTGTGCACAC ATTCCATTCG
     6121 TGCCCAAGAC ATTTCATTGT GGTGCGAAGC GTCCCCAGTT ACGCTCACCT GTTTCCCGAC
     6181 CTCCTTACTG TTCTGTCGAC AGAGCGGGCC CACAGGCCGG TCGCAGCCAC TAGTATGGCC
     6241 ACCGCATCCA CTTTCTCGGC GTTCAATGCC CGCTGCGGCG ACCTGCGTCG CTCGGCGGGC
     6301 TCCGGGCCCC GGCGCCCAGC GAGGCCCCTC CCCGTGCGCG GGCGCGCCCA GCTGCCCGAC
     6361 TGGAGCATGC TGCTGGCCGC GATCACCACC CTGTTCCTGG CGGCCGAGAA GCAGTGGATG
     6421 ATGCTGGACT GGAAGCCCAA GCGCCCCGAC ATGCTGGTGG ACCCCTTCGG CCTGGGCCGC
     6481 TTCGTGCAGG ACGGCCTGGT GTTCCGCAAC AACTTCAGCA TCCGCAGCTA CGAGATCGGC
     6541 GCGGACCGCA CCGCCAGCAT CGAGACCCTG ATGAACCACC TGCAGGAGAC CGCCCTGAAC
     6601 CACGTGAAGA GCGTGGGCCT GCTGGAGGAC GGCCTGGGCA GCACCCGCGA GATGAGCCTG
     6661 CGCAACCTGA TCTGGGTGGT GACCAAGATG CAGGTGGCGG TGGACCGCTA CCCCACCTGG
     6721 GGCGACGAGG TGCAGGTGAG CAGCTGGGCG ACCGCCATCG GCAAGAACGG CATGCGCCGC
     6781 GAGTGGATCG TGACCGACTT CCGCACCGGC GAGACCCTGC TGCGCGCCAC CAGCGTGTGG
     6841 GTGATGATGA ACAAGCTGAC CCGCCGCATC AGCAAGATCC CCGAGGAGGT GTGGCACGAG
     6901 ATCGGCCCCA GCTTCATCGA CGCGCCCCCC CTGCCCACCG TGGAGGACGA CGGCCGCAAG
     6961 CTGACCCGCT TCGACGAGAG CAGCGCCGAC TTCATCCGCA AGGGCCTGAC CCCCCGCTGG
     7021 AGCGACCTGG ACATCAACCA GCACGTGAAC AACGTGAAGT ACATCGGCTG GCTGCTGGAG
     7081 AGCGCGCCCC CCGAGATCCA CGAGAGCCAC GAGATCGCCA GCCTGACCCT GGAGTACCGC
     7141 CGCGAGTGCG GCCGCGACAG CGTGCTGAAC AGCGCCACCA AGGTGAGCGA CAGCAGCCAG
     7201 CTGGGCAAGA GCGCCGTGGA GTGCAACCAC CTGGTGCGCC TGCAGAACGG CGGCGAGATC
     7261 GTGAAGGGCC GCACCGTGTG GCGCCCCAAG CGCCCCCTGT ACAACGACGG CGCCGTGGTG
     7321 GACGTGCCCG CCAAGACCAG CGATGACGAT GACAAGCTGG GATGACTCGA GGCAGCAGCA
     7381 GCTCGGATAG TATCGACACA CTCTGGACGC TGGTCGTGTG ATGGACTGTT GCCGCCACAC
     7441 TTGCTGCCTT GACCTGTGAA TATCCCTGCC GCTTTTATCA AACAGCCTCA GTGTGTTTGA
     7501 TCTTGTGTGT ACGCGCTTTT GCGAGTTGCT AGCTGCTTGT GCTATTTGCG AATACCACCC
     7561 CCAGCATCCC CTTCCCTCGT TTCATATCGC TTGCATCCCA ACCGCAACTT ATCTACGCTG
     7621 TCCTGCTATC CCTCAGCGCT GCTCCTGCTC CTGCTCACTG CCCCTCGCAC AGCCTTGGTT
     7681 TGGGCTCCGC CTGTATTCTC CTGGTACTGC AACCTGTAAA CCAGCACTGC AATGCTGATG
     7741 CACGGGAAGT AGTGGGATGG GAACACAAAT GGAAAGCTTG AGCTCTTGTT TTCCAGAAGG
     7801 AGTTGCTCCT TGAGCCTTTC ATTCTCAGCC TCGATAACCT CCAAAGCCGC TCTAATTGTG
     7861 GAGGGGGTTC GAATTTAAAA GCTTGGAATG TTGGTTCGTG CGTCTGGAAC AAGCCCAGAC
     7921 TTGTTGCTCA CTGGGAAAAG GACCATCAGC TCCAAAAAAC TTGCCGCTCA AACCGCGTAC
     7981 CTCTGCTTTC GCGCAATCTG CCCTGTTGAA ATCGCCACCA CATTCATATT GTGACGCTTG
     8041 AGCAGTCTGT AATTGCCTCA GAATGTGGAA TCATCTGCCC CCTGTGCGAG CCCATGCCAG
     8101 GCATGTCGCG GGCGAGGACA CCCGCCACTC GTACAGCAGA CCATTATGCT ACCTCACAAT
     8161 AGTTCATAAC AGTGACCATA TTTCTCGAAG CTCCCCAACG AGCACCTCCA TGCTCTGAGT
     8221 GGCCACCCCC CGGCCCTGGT GCTTGCGGAG GGCAGGTCAA CCGGCATGGG GCTACCGAAA
     8281 TCCCCGACCG GATCCCACCA CCCCCGCGAT GGGAAGAATC TCTCCCCGGG ATGTGGGCCC
     8341 ACCACCAGCA CAACCTGCTG GCCCAGGCGA GCGTCAAACC ATACCACACA AATATCCTTG
     8401 GCATCGGCCC TGAATTCCTT CTGCCGCTCT GCTACCCGGT GCTTCTGTCC GAAGCAGGGG
     8461 TTGCTAGGGA TCGCTCCGAG TCCGCAAACC CTTGTCGCGT GGCGGGGCTT GTTCGAGCTT
     8521 GAAGAGCCTC TAGAGTCGAC CTGCAGGCAT GCAAGCTTGG CGTAATCATG GTCATAGCTG
     8581 TTTCCTGTGT GAAATTGTTA TCCGCTCACA ATTCCACACA ACATACGAGC CGGAAGCATA
     8641 AAGTGTAAAG CCTGGGGTGC CTAATGAGTG AGCTAACTCA CATTAATTGC GTTGCGCTCA
     8701 CTGCCCGCTT TCCAGTCGGG AAACCTGTCG TGCCAGCTGC ATTAATGAAT CGGCCAACGC
     8761 GCGGGGAGAG GCGGTTTGCG TATTGGGCGC TCTTCCGCTT CCTCGCTCAC TGACTCGCTG
     8821 CGCTCGGTCG TTCGGCTGCG GCGAGCGGTA TCAGCTCACT CAAAGGCGGT AATACGGTTA
     8881 TCCACAGAAT CAGGGGATAA CGCAGGAAAG AACATGTGAG CAAAAGGCCA GCAAAAGGCC
     8941 AGGAACCGTA AAAAGGCCGC GTTGCTGGCG TTTTTCCATA GGCTCCGCCC CCCTGACGAG
     9001 CATCACAAAA ATCGACGCTC AAGTCAGAGG TGGCGAAACC CGACAGGACT ATAAAGATAC
     9061 CAGGCGTTTC CCCCTGGAAG CTCCCTCGTG CGCTCTCCTG TTCCGACCCT GCCGCTTACC
     9121 GGATACCTGT CCGCCTTTCT CCCTTCGGGA AGCGTGGCGC TTTCTCATAG CTCACGCTGT
     9181 AGGTATCTCA GTTCGGTGTA GGTCGTTCGC TCCAAGCTGG GCTGTGTGCA CGAACCCCCC
     9241 GTTCAGCCCG ACCGCTGCGC CTTATCCGGT AACTATCGTC TTGAGTCCAA CCCGGTAAGA
     9301 CACGACTTAT CGC
SEQ ID NO: 228
                                     326

pSZ944
        1 CTP.AATTGTA AGCGTTAATA TTTTGTTAAA ATTCGCGTTA AATTTTTGTT AAATCAGCTC
       61 ATTTTTTAAC  CAATAGGCCG AAATCGGCAA AATCCCTTAT AAATCAAAAG AATAGACCGA
      121 GATAGGGTTG  AGTGTTGTTC CAGTTTGGAA CAAGAGTCCA CTATTAAAGA ACGTGGACTC
      181 CAACGTCAAA  GGGCGAAAAA CCGTCTATCA GGGCGATGGC CCACTACGTG AACCATCACC
      241 CTP.ATCAAGT TTTTTGGGGT CGAGGTGCCG TAAAGCACTA AATCGGAACC CTAAAGGGAG
      301 CCCCCGATTT  AGAGCTTGAC GGGGAAAGCC GGCGAACGTG GCGAGAAAGG AAGGGAAGAA
      361 AGCGAAAGGA  GCGGGCGCTA GGGCGCTGGC AAGTGTAGCG GTCACGCTGC GCGTAACCAC
      421 CACACCCGCC  GCGCTTAATG CGCCGCTACA GGGCGCGTCC CATTCGCCAT TCAGGCTGCG
      481 CAACTGTTGG  GAAGGGCGAT CGGTGCGGGC CTCTTCGCTA TTACGCCAGC TGGCGAAAGG
      541 GGGATGTGCT  GCAAGGCGAT TAAGTTGGGT AACGCCAGGG TTTTCCCAGT CACGACGTTG
      601 TAP.AACGACG GCCAGTGAGC GCGCGTAATA CGACTCACTA TAGGGCGAAT TGCAGCTTTT
      661 GTTCCCTTTA  GTGAGGGTTA ATTGCGCGCT TGGCGTAATC ATGGTCATAG CTGTTTCCTG
      721 TGTGAAATTG  TTATCCGCTC ACAATTCCAC ACAACATACG AGCCGGAAGC ATAAAGTGTA
      781 AAGCCTGGGG  TGCCTAATGA GTGAGCTAAC TCACATTAAT TGCGTTGCGC TCACTGCCCG
      841 CTTTCCAGTC  GGGAAACCTG TCGTGCCAGC TGCATTAATG AATCGGCCAA CGCGCGGGGA
      901 GAGGCGGTGC  GTATTGGGCG CTCTTCCGCT CCCGTGATCA CACAGGTGCC TTGCGAGCGT
      961 GATCACACTA  TTTTGGGGGT CCTACAGTAC TGAAATGGTG AGAAGTCGTA CTGAAATCAA
     1021 GGATGAACAA  TGAAAATGGT GCTGTGGTGG CTTCTCAAAG GTCAAGAATC AGTCGCTCGC
     1081 GTCAGGAAAT  CGCGGCGTCA ACCAGCGTGG GCGCGGTCAG TGGCCCCGCA CTGGTCACCA
     1141 TAGCCTCTCC  TGCCACAGTA GCGATCCCCT GGGCGTTCAC TCTCAGCAGC GGCTGTACTG
     1201 CCTCCCAGAT  TTTCTTCTTC TGGACCTGCG GGCGTGAGAG GATGAGCAGG GTGGGGCCAA
     1261 GGGCTCAATC  CTGAACGGCC CTCATTCGGT TTCCAATCCC ACAACACATA CCCACAGCAG
     1321 GTCAGACCAC  GCATTCGCAC CATGCGCACC AATAACGTGT CCTTACCTGA TTGGGTGTGG
     1381 CAGGCTCCGT  GGACAGGAGT GCCTCGTCCC CCGCCCAGAC CCGCTCCCCC GTCACGGCGG
     1441 CGTCCGGGAC  CCGCAGCGGC TCCACCGCGG TGTGATCCGC GTTGGCGGCG CAGAGCAGCA
     1501 TCCCAGCCGA  TTTGACCCCG CGCATGCTCC GAGGCTTGAG GTTGGCCAGC ACCACCACCC
     1561 GCCGGCCGAC  AAGGTCCTCC AGGGTCACGT GCCGGACCAG GCCACTCACG ATGGTGCGAG
     1621 GGCCCCCCTC  CTCGCCGAGG TCGATCTGCT CGACGTACAG ACTGCGACAT GCGTGGCGAG
     1681 TGGTCATCAG  AAGGAAGCAG GTGTGCAGAA GGGGCACGTG GTTGGTATTG AGAGTAGCCA
     1741 AAGCTTTGTG  CCAATCAGAA AGTCAACGCA GCTGCCTGCC TGGCTCGCGT ACGGTACCCT
     1801 TTCTTGCGCT  ATGACACTTC CAGCAAAAGG TAGGGCGGGC TGCGAGACGG CTTCCCGGCG
     1861 CTGCATGCAA  CACCGATGAT GCTTCGACCC CCCGAAGCTC CTTCGGGGCT GCATGGGCGC
     1921 TCCGATGCCG  CTCCAGGGCG AGCGCTGTTT AAATAGCCAG GCCCCCGATT GCAAAGACAT
     1981 TATAGCGAGC  TACCAAAGCC ATATTCAAAC ACCTAGATCA CTACCACTTC TACACAGGCC
     2041 ACTCGAGCTT  GTGATCGCAC TCCGCTAAGG GGGCGCCTCT TCCTCTTCGT TTCAGTCACA
     2101 ACCCGCAAAC  TCTAGAATAT CAATGCTGCT GCAGGCCTTC CTGTTCCTGC TGGCCGGCTT
     2161 CGCCGCCAAG  ATCAGCGCCT CCATGACGAA CGAGACGTCC GACCGCCCCC TGGTGCACTT
     2221 CACCCCCAAC  AAGGGCTGGA TGAACGACCC CAACGGCCTG TGGTACGACG AGAAGGACGC
     2281 CAAGTGGCAC  CTGTACTTCC AGTACAACCC GAACGACACC GTCTGGGGGA CGCCCTTGTT
     2341 CTGGGGCCAC  GCCACGTCCG ACGACCTGAC CAACTGGGAG GACCAGCCCA TCGCCATCGC
     2401 CCCGAAGCGC  AACGACTCCG GCGCCTTCTC CGGCTCCATG GTGGTGGACT ACAACAACAC
     2461 CTCCGGCTTC  TTCAACGACA CCATCGACCC GCGCCAGCGC TGCGTGGCCA TCTGGACCTA
     2521 CAACACCCCG  GAGTCCGAGG AGCAGTACAT CTCCTACAGC CTGGACGGCG GCTACACCTT
     2581 CACCGAGTAC  CAGAAGAACC CCGTGCTGGC CGCCAACTCC ACCCAGTTCC GCGACCCGAA
     2641 GGTCTTCTGG  TACGAGCCCT CCCAGAAGTG GATCATGACC GCGGCCAAGT CCCAGGACTA
     2701 CAAGATCGAG  ATCTACTCCT CCGACGACCT GAAGTCCTGG AAGCTGGAGT CCGCGTTCGC
     2761 CAACGAGGGC  TTCCTCGGCT ACCAGTACGA GTGCCCCGGC CTGATCGAGG TCCCCACCGA
     2821 GCAGGACCCC  AGCAAGTCCT ACTGGGTGAT GTTCATCTCC ATCAACCCCG GCGCCCCGGC
     2881 CGGCGGCTCC  TTCAACCAGT ACTTCGTCGG CAGCTTCAAC GGCACCCACT TCGAGGCCTT
     2941 CGACAACCAG  TCCCGCGTGG TGGACTTCGG CAAGGACTAC TACGCCCTGC AGACCTTCTT
     3001 CAACACCGAC  CCGACCTACG GGAGCGCCCT GGGCATCGCG TGGGCCTCCA ACTGGGAGTA
     3061 CTCCGCCTTC  GTGCCCACCA ACCCCTGGCG CTCCTCCATG TCCCTCGTGC GCAAGTTCTC
     3121 CCTCAACACC  GAGTACCAGG CCAACCCGGA GACGGAGCTG ATCAACCTGA AGGCCGAGCC
     3181 GATCCTGAAC  ATCAGCAACG CCGGCCCCTG GAGCCGGTTC GCCACCAACA CCACGTTGAC
     3241 GAAGGCCAAC  AGCTACAACG TCGACCTGTC CAACAGCACC GGCACCCTGG AGTTCGAGCT
     3301 GGTGTACGCC  GTCAACACCA CCCAGACGAT CTCCAAGTCC GTGTTCGCGG ACCTCTCCCT
     3361 CTGGTTCAAG  GGCCTGGAGG ACCCCGAGGA GTACCTCCGC ATGGGCTTCG AGGTGTCCGC
     3421 GTCCTCCTTC  TTCCTGGACC GCGGGAACAG CAAGGTGAAG TTCGTGAAGG AGAACCCCTA
     3481 CTTCACCAAC  CGCATGAGCG TGAACAACCA GCCCTTCAAG AGCGAGAACG ACCTGTCCTA
                                      327

3541 CTACAAGGTG  TACGGCTTGC TGGACCAGAA CATCCTGGAG CTGTACTTCA ACGACGGCGA
3601 CGTCGTGTCC  ACCAACACCT ACTTCATGAC CACCGGGAAC GCCCTGGGCT CCGTGAACAT
3661 GACGACGGGG  GTGGACAACC TGTTCTACAT CGACAAGTTC CAGGTGCGCG AGGTCAAGTG
3721 ACP.ATTGGCA GCAGCAGCTC GGATAGTATC GACACACTCT GGACGCTGGT CGTGTGATGG
3781 ACTGTTGCCG  CCACACTTGC TGCCTTGACC TGTGAATATC CCTGCCGCTT TTATCAAACA
3841 GCCTCAGTGT  GTTTGATCTT GTGTGTACGC GCTTTTGCGA GTTGCTAGCT GCTTGTGCTA
3901 TTTGCGAATA  CCACCCCCAG CATCCCCTTC CCTCGTTTCA TATCGCTTGC ATCCCAACCG
3961 CAACTTATCT  ACGCTGTCCT GCTATCCCTC AGCGCTGCTC CTGCTCCTGC TCACTGCCCC
4021 TCGCACAGCC  TTGGTTTGGG CTCCGCCTGT ATTCTCCTGG TACTGCAACC TGTAAACCAG
4081 CACTGCAATG  CTGATGCACG GGAAGTAGTG GGATGGGAAC ACAAATGGAG GATCCCGCGT
4141 CTCGAACAGA  GCGCGCAGAG GAACGCTGAA GGTCTCGCCT CTGTCGCACC TCAGCGCGGC
4201 ATACACCACA  ATAACCACCT GACGAATGCG CTTGGTTCTT CGTCCATTAG CGAAGCGTCC
4261 GGTTCACACA  CGTGCCACGT TGGCGAGGTG GCAGGTGACA ATGATCGGTG GAGCTGATGG
4321 TCGAAACGTT  CACAGCCTAG GGATATCGAA TTCCTTTCTT GCGCTATGAC ACTTCCAGCA
4381 AAAGGTAGGG  CGGGCTGCGA GACGGCTTCC CGGCGCTGCA TGCAACACCG ATGATGCTTC
4441 GACCCCCCGA  AGCTCCTTCG GGGCTGCATG GGCGCTCCGA TGCCGCTCCA GGGCGAGCGC
4501 TGTTTAAATA  GCCAGGCCCC CGATTGCAAA GACATTATAG CGAGCTACCA AAGCCATATT
4561 CAP.ACACCTA GATCACTACC ACTTCTACAC AGGCCACTCG AGCTTGTGAT CGCACTCCGC
4621 TAAGGGGGCG  CCTCTTCCTC TTCGTTTCAG TCACAACCCG CAAACACTAG TATGGCCACC
4681 GCATCCACTT  TCTCGGCGTT CAATGCCCGC TGCGGCGACC TGCGTCGCTC GGCGGGCTCC
4741 GGGCCCCGGC  GCCCAGCGAG GCCCCTCCCC GTGCGCGGGC GCGCCCCCGA CTGGTCCATG
4801 CTGTTCGCCG  TGATCACCAC CATCTTCTCC GCCGCCGAGA AGCAGTGGAC CAACCTGGAG
4861 TGGAAGCCCA  AGCCCAACCC CCCCCAGCTG CTGGACGACC ACTTCGGCCC CCACGGCCTG
4921 GTGTTCCGCC  GCACCTTCGC CATCCGCAGC TACGAGGTGG GCCCCGACCG CTCCACCAGC
4981 ATCGTGGCCG  TGATGAACCA CCTGCAGGAG GCCGCCCTGA ACCACGCCAA GTCCGTGGGC
5041 ATCCTGGGCG  ACGGCTTCGG CACCACCCTG GAGATGTCCA AGCGCGACCT GATCTGGGTG
5101 GTGAAGCGCA  CCCACGTGGC CGTGGAGCGC TACCCCGCCT GGGGCGACAC CGTGGAGGTG
5161 GAGTGCTGGG  TGGGCGCCTC CGGCAACAAC GGCCGCCGCC ACGACTTCCT GGTGCGCGAC
5221 TGCAAGACCG  GCGAGATCCT GACCCGCTGC ACCTCCCTGA GCGTGATGAT GAACACCCGC
5281 ACCCGCCGCC  TGAGCAAGAT CCCCGAGGAG GTGCGCGGCG AGATCGGCCC CGCCTTCATC
5341 GACAACGTGG  CCGTGAAGGA CGAGGAGATC AAGAAGCCCC AGAAGCTGAA CGACTCCACC
5401 GCCGACTACA  TCCAGGGCGG CCTGACCCCC CGCTGGAACG ACCTGGACAT CAACCAGCAC
5461 GTGAACAACA  TCAAGTACGT GGACTGGATC CTGGAGACCG TGCCCGACAG CATCTTCGAG
5521 AGCCACCACA  TCTCCTCCTT CACCATCGAG TACCGCCGCG AGTGCACCAT GGACAGCGTG
5581 CTGCAGTCCC  TGACCACCGT GAGCGGCGGC TCCTCCGAGG CCGGCCTGGT GTGCGAGCAC
5641 CTGCTGCAGC  TGGAGGGCGG CAGCGAGGTG CTGCGCGCCA AGACCGAGTG GCGCCCCAAG
5701 CTGACCGACT  CCTTCCGCGG CATCAGCGTG ATCCCCGCCG AGTCCAGCGT GATGGACTAC
5761 AAGGACCACG  ACGGCGACTA CAAGGACCAC GACATCGACT ACAAGGACGA CGACGACAAG
5821 TGACTCGAGG  CAGCAGCAGC TCGGATAGTA TCGACACACT CTGGACGCTG GTCGTGTGAT
5881 GGACTGTTGC  CGCCACACTT GCTGCCTTGA CCTGTGAATA TCCCTGCCGC TTTTATCAAA
5941 CAGCCTCAGT  GTGTTTGATC TTGTGTGTAC GCGCTTTTGC GAGTTGCTAG CTGCTTGTGC
6001 TATTTGCGAA  TACCACCCCC AGCATCCCCT TCCCTCGTTT CATATCGCTT GCATCCCAAC
6061 CGCAACTTAT  CTACGCTGTC CTGCTATCCC TCAGCGCTGC TCCTGCTCCT GCTCACTGCC
6121 CCTCGCACAG  CCTTGGTTTG GGCTCCGCCT GTATTCTCCT GGTACTGCAA CCTGTAAACC
6181 AGCACTGCAA  TGCTGATGCA CGGGAAGTAG TGGGATGGGA ACACAAATGG AAAGCTTGAG
6241 CTCGTACCCA  TCAGCATCCG GGTGAATCTT GGCCTCCAAG ATATGGCCAA TCCTCACATC
6301 CAGCTTGGCA  AAATCGACTA GACTGTCTGC AAGTGGGAAT GTGGAGCACA AGGTTGCTTG
6361 TAGCGATCGA  CAGACTGGTG GGGTACATTG ACAGGTGGGC AGCGCCGCAT CCATCGTGCC
6421 TGACGCGAGC  GCCGCCGGTT GCTCGCCCGT GCCTGCCGTC AAAGAGCGGC AGAGAAATCG
6481 GGP.ACCGAAA ACGTCACATT GCCTGATGTT GTTACATGCT GGACTAGACT TTCTTGGCGT
6541 GGGTCTGCTC  CTCGCCAGGT GCGCGACGCC TCGGGGCTGG GTGCGAGGGA GCCGTGCGGC
6601 CACGCATTTG  ACAAGACCCA AAGCTCGCAT CTCAGACGGT CAACCGTTCG TATTATACAT
6661 TCP.ACATATG GTACATACGC AAAAAGCATG CCAACGATGA CAGCTCTTCG CCCACATGTG
6721 AGCAAAAGGC  CAGCAAAAGG CCAGGAACCG TAAAAAGGCC GCGTTGCTGG CGTTTTTCCA
6781 TAGGCTCCGC  CCCCCTGACG AGCATCACAA AAATCGACGC TCAAGTCAGA GGTGGCGAAA
6841 CCCGACAGGA  CTATAAAGAT ACCAGGCGTT TCCCCCTGGA AGCTCCCTCG TGCGCTCTCC
6901 TGTTCCGACC  CTGCCGCTTA CCGGATACCT GTCCGCCTTT CTCCCTTCGG GAAGCGTGGC
6961 GCTTTCTCAT  AGCTCACGCT GTAGGTATCT CAGTTCGGTG TAGGTCGTTC GCTCCAAGCT
7021 GGGCTGTGTG  CACGAACCCC CCGTTCAGCC CGACCGCTGC GCCTTATCCG GTAACTATCG
7081 TCTTGAGTCC  AACCCGGTAA GACACGACTT ATCGCCACTG GCAGCAGCCA CTGGTAACAG
7141 GATTAGCAGA  GCGAGGTATG TAGGCGGTGC TACAGAGTTC TTGAAGTGGT GGCCTAACTA
                                 328

     7201 CGGCTACACT  AGAAGGACAG TATTTGGTAT CTGCGCTCTG CTGAAGCCAG TTACCTTCGG
     7261 AAP.AAGAGTT GGTAGCTCTT GATCCGGCAA ACAAACCACC GCTGGTAGCG GTGGTTTTTT
     7321 TGTTTGCAAG  CAGCAGATTA CGCGCAGAAA AAAAGGATCT CAAGAAGATC CTTTGATCTT
     7381 TTCTACGGGG  TCTGACGCTC AGTGGAACGA AAACTCACGT TAAGGGATTT TGGTCATGAG
     7441 ATTATCAAAA  AGGATCTTCA CCTAGATCCT TTTAAATTAA AAATGAAGTT TTAAATCAAT
     7501 CTP.AAGTATA TATGAGTAAA CTTGGTCTGA CAGTTACCAA TGCTTAATCA GTGAGGCACC
     7561 TATCTCAGCG  ATCTGTCTAT TTCGTTCATC CATAGTTGCC TGACTCCCCG TCGTGTAGAT
     7621 AACTACGATA  CGGGAGGGCT TACCATCTGG CCCCAGTGCT GCAATGATAC CGCGAGACCC
     7681 ACGCTCACCG  GCTCCAGATT TATCAGCAAT AAACCAGCCA GCCGGAAGGG CCGAGCGCAG
     7741 AAGTGGTCCT  GCAACTTTAT CCGCCTCCAT CCAGTCTATT AATTGTTGCC GGGAAGCTAG
     7801 AGTAAGTAGT  TCGCCAGTTA ATAGTTTGCG CAACGTTGTT GCCATTGCTA CAGGCATCGT
     7861 GGTGTCACGC  TCGTCGTTTG GTATGGCTTC ATTCAGCTCC GGTTCCCAAC GATCAAGGCG
     7921 AGTTACATGA  TCCCCCATGT TGTGCAAAAA AGCGGTTAGC TCCTTCGGTC CTCCGATCGT
     7981 TGTCAGAAGT  AAGTTGGCCG CAGTGTTATC ACTCATGGTT ATGGCAGCAC TGCATAATTC
     8041 TCTTACTGTC  ATGCCATCCG TAAGATGCTT TTCTGTGACT GGTGAGTACT CAACCAAGTC
     8101 ATTCTGAGAA  TAGTGTATGC GGCGACCGAG TTGCTCTTGC CCGGCGTCAA TACGGGATAA
     8161 TACCGCGCCA  CATAGCAGAA CTTTAAAAGT GCTCATCATT GGAAAACGTT CTTCGGGGCG
     8221 AAP.ACTCTCA AGGATCTTAC CGCTGTTGAG ATCCAGTTCG ATGTAACCCA CTCGTGCACC
     8281 CAACTGATCT  TCAGCATCTT TTACTTTCAC CAGCGTTTCT GGGTGAGCAA AAACAGGAAG
     8341 GCP.AAATGCC GCAAAAAAGG GAATAAGGGC GACACGGAAA TGTTGAATAC TCATACTCTT
     8401 CCTTTTTCAA  TATTATTGAA GCATTTATCA GGGTTATTGT CTCATGAGCG GATACATATT
     8461 TGP.ATGTATT TAGAAAAATA AACAAATAGG GGTTCCGCGC ACATTTCCCC GAAAAGTGCC
     8521 AC
SEQ ID NO: 229
pSZ1283
        1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
      841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
      901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
      961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
     1021 CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
     1081 TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
     1141 GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
     1201 TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
     1261 GGP.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
     1321 ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
     1381 CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
     1441 TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
     1501 GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
     1561 CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
     1621 TTP.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
     1681 CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
     1741 ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
     1801 GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
     1861 AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCGCCGCCG CCACTCCTGC TCGAGCGCGC
     1921 CCGCGCGTGC  GCCGCCAGCG CCTTGGCCTT TTCGCCGCGC TCGTGCGCGT CGCTGATGTC
                                      329

1981 CATCACCAGG  TCCATGAGGT CTGCCTTGCG CCGGCTGAGC CACTGCTTCG TCCGGGCGGC
2041 CAAGAGGAGC  ATGAGGGAGG ACTCCTGGTC CAGGGTCCTG ACGTGGTCGC GGCTCTGGGA
2101 GCGGGCCAGC  ATCATCTGGC TCTGCCGCAC CGAGGCCGCC TCCAACTGGT CCTCCAGCAG
2161 CCGCAGTCGC  CGCCGACCCT GGCAGAGGAA GACAGGTGAG GGGGGTATGA ATTGTACAGA
2221 ACP.ACCACGA GCCTTGTCTA GGCAGAATCC CTACCAGTCA TGGCTTTACC TGGATGACGG
2281 CCTGCGAACA  GCTGTCCAGC GACCCTCGCT GCCGCCGCTT CTCCCGCACG CTTCTTTCCA
2341 GCACCGTGAT  GGCGCGAGCC AGCGCCGCAC GCTGGCGCTG CGCTTCGCCG ATCTGAGGAC
2401 AGTCGGGGAA  CTCTGATCAG TCTAAACCCC CTTGCGCGTT AGTGTTGCCA TCCTTTGCAG
2461 ACCGGTGAGA  GCCGACTTGT TGTGCGCCAC CCCCCACACC ACCTCCTCCC AGACCAATTC
2521 TGTCACCTTT  TTGGCGAAGG CATCGGCCTC GGCCTGCAGA GAGGACAGCA GTGCCCAGCC
2581 GCTGGGGGTT  GGCGGATGCA CGCTCAGGTA CCCTTTCTTG CGCTATGACA CTTCCAGCAA
2641 AAGGTAGGGC  GGGCTGCGAG ACGGCTTCCC GGCGCTGCAT GCAACACCGA TGATGCTTCG
2701 ACCCCCCGAA  GCTCCTTCGG GGCTGCATGG GCGCTCCGAT GCCGCTCCAG GGCGAGCGCT
2761 GTTTAAATAG  CCAGGCCCCC GATTGCAAAG ACATTATAGC GAGCTACCAA AGCCATATTC
2821 AAACACCTAG  ATCACTACCA CTTCTACACA GGCCACTCGA GCTTGTGATC GCACTCCGCT
2881 AAGGGGGCGC  CTCTTCCTCT TCGTTTCAGT CACAACCCGC AAACGGCGCG CCATGCTGCT
2941 GCAGGCCTTC  CTGTTCCTGC TGGCCGGCTT CGCCGCCAAG ATCAGCGCCT CCATGACGAA
3001 CGAGACGTCC  GACCGCCCCC TGGTGCACTT CACCCCCAAC AAGGGCTGGA TGAACGACCC
3061 CAACGGCCTG  TGGTACGACG AGAAGGACGC CAAGTGGCAC CTGTACTTCC AGTACAACCC
3121 GAACGACACC  GTCTGGGGGA CGCCCTTGTT CTGGGGCCAC GCCACGTCCG ACGACCTGAC
3181 CAACTGGGAG  GACCAGCCCA TCGCCATCGC CCCGAAGCGC AACGACTCCG GCGCCTTCTC
3241 CGGCTCCATG  GTGGTGGACT ACAACAACAC CTCCGGCTTC TTCAACGACA CCATCGACCC
3301 GCGCCAGCGC  TGCGTGGCCA TCTGGACCTA CAACACCCCG GAGTCCGAGG AGCAGTACAT
3361 CTCCTACAGC  CTGGACGGCG GCTACACCTT CACCGAGTAC CAGAAGAACC CCGTGCTGGC
3421 CGCCAACTCC  ACCCAGTTCC GCGACCCGAA GGTCTTCTGG TACGAGCCCT CCCAGAAGTG
3481 GATCATGACC  GCGGCCAAGT CCCAGGACTA CAAGATCGAG ATCTACTCCT CCGACGACCT
3541 GAAGTCCTGG  AAGCTGGAGT CCGCGTTCGC CAACGAGGGC TTCCTCGGCT ACCAGTACGA
3601 GTGCCCCGGC  CTGATCGAGG TCCCCACCGA GCAGGACCCC AGCAAGTCCT ACTGGGTGAT
3661 GTTCATCTCC  ATCAACCCCG GCGCCCCGGC CGGCGGCTCC TTCAACCAGT ACTTCGTCGG
3721 CAGCTTCAAC  GGCACCCACT TCGAGGCCTT CGACAACCAG TCCCGCGTGG TGGACTTCGG
3781 CAAGGACTAC  TACGCCCTGC AGACCTTCTT CAACACCGAC CCGACCTACG GGAGCGCCCT
3841 GGGCATCGCG  TGGGCCTCCA ACTGGGAGTA CTCCGCCTTC GTGCCCACCA ACCCCTGGCG
3901 CTCCTCCATG  TCCCTCGTGC GCAAGTTCTC CCTCAACACC GAGTACCAGG CCAACCCGGA
3961 GACGGAGCTG  ATCAACCTGA AGGCCGAGCC GATCCTGAAC ATCAGCAACG CCGGCCCCTG
4021 GAGCCGGTTC  GCCACCAACA CCACGTTGAC GAAGGCCAAC AGCTACAACG TCGACCTGTC
4081 CAACAGCACC  GGCACCCTGG AGTTCGAGCT GGTGTACGCC GTCAACACCA CCCAGACGAT
4141 CTCCAAGTCC  GTGTTCGCGG ACCTCTCCCT CTGGTTCAAG GGCCTGGAGG ACCCCGAGGA
4201 GTACCTCCGC  ATGGGCTTCG AGGTGTCCGC GTCCTCCTTC TTCCTGGACC GCGGGAACAG
4261 CAAGGTGAAG  TTCGTGAAGG AGAACCCCTA CTTCACCAAC CGCATGAGCG TGAACAACCA
4321 GCCCTTCAAG  AGCGAGAACG ACCTGTCCTA CTACAAGGTG TACGGCTTGC TGGACCAGAA
4381 CATCCTGGAG  CTGTACTTCA ACGACGGCGA CGTCGTGTCC ACCAACACCT ACTTCATGAC
4441 CACCGGGAAC  GCCCTGGGCT CCGTGAACAT GACGACGGGG GTGGACAACC TGTTCTACAT
4501 CGACAAGTTC  CAGGTGCGCG AGGTCAAGTG ACAATTGGCA GCAGCAGCTC GGATAGTATC
4561 GACACACTCT  GGACGCTGGT CGTGTGATGG ACTGTTGCCG CCACACTTGC TGCCTTGACC
4621 TGTGAATATC  CCTGCCGCTT TTATCAAACA GCCTCAGTGT GTTTGATCTT GTGTGTACGC
4681 GCTTTTGCGA  GTTGCTAGCT GCTTGTGCTA TTTGCGAATA CCACCCCCAG CATCCCCTTC
4741 CCTCGTTTCA  TATCGCTTGC ATCCCAACCG CAACTTATCT ACGCTGTCCT GCTATCCCTC
4801 AGCGCTGCTC  CTGCTCCTGC TCACTGCCCC TCGCACAGCC TTGGTTTGGG CTCCGCCTGT
4861 ATTCTCCTGG  TACTGCAACC TGTAAACCAG CACTGCAATG CTGATGCACG GGAAGTAGTG
4921 GGATGGGAAC  ACAAATGGAG GATCCCGCGT CTCGAACAGA GCGCGCAGAG GAACGCTGAA
4981 GGTCTCGCCT  CTGTCGCACC TCAGCGCGGC ATACACCACA ATAACCACCT GACGAATGCG
5041 CTTGGTTCTT  CGTCCATTAG CGAAGCGTCC GGTTCACACA CGTGCCACGT TGGCGAGGTG
5101 GCAGGTGACA  ATGATCGGTG GAGCTGATGG TCGAAACGTT CACAGCCTAG GGATATCGAA
5161 TTCGGCCGAC  AGGACGCGCG TCAAAGGTGC TGGTCGTGTA TGCCCTGGCC GGCAGGTCGT
5221 TGCTGCTGCT  GGTTAGTGAT TCCGCAACCC TGATTTTGGC GTCTTATTTT GGCGTGGCAA
5281 ACGCTGGCGC  CCGCGAGCCG GGCCGGCGGC GATGCGGTGC CCCACGGCTG CCGGAATCCA
5341 AGGGAGGCAA  GAGCGCCCGG GTCAGTTGAA GGGCTTTACG CGCAAGGTAC AGCCGCTCCT
5401 GCP.AGGCTGC GTGGTGGAAT TGGACGTGCA GGTCCTGCTG AAGTTCCTCC ACCGCCTCAC
5461 CAGCGGACAA  AGCACCGGTG TATCAGGTCC GTGTCATCCA CTCTAAAGAG CTCGACTACG
5521 ACCTACTGAT  GGCCCTAGAT TCTTCATCAA AAACGCCTGA GACACTTGCC CAGGATTGAA
5581 ACTCCCTGAA  GGGACCACCA GGGGCCCTGA GTTGTTCCTT CCCCCCGTGG CGAGCTGCCA
                                 330

5641 GCCAGGCTGT  ACCTGTGATC GAGGCTGGCG GGAAAATAGG CTTCGTGTGC TCAGGTCATG
5701 GGAGGTGCAG  GACAGCTCAT GAAACGCCAA CAATCGCACA ATTCATGTCA AGCTAATCAG
5761 CTATTTCCTC  TTCACGAGCT GTAATTGTCC CAAAATTCTG GTCTACCGGG GGTGATCCTT
5821 CGTGTACGGG  CCCTTCCCTC AACCCTAGGT ATGCGCGCAT GCGGTCGCCG CGCAACTCGC
5881 GCGAGGGCCG  AGGGTTTGGG ACGGGCCGTC CCGAAATGCA GTTGCACCCG GATGCGTGGC
5941 ACCTTTTTTG  CGATAATTTA TGCAATGGAC TGCTCTGCAA AATTCTGGCT CTGTCGCCAA
6001 CCCTAGGATC  AGCGGCGTAG GATTTCGTAA TCATTCGTCC TGATGGGGAG CTACCGACTA
6061 CCCTAATATC  AGCCCGACTG CCTGACGCCA GCGTCCACTT TTGTGCACAC ATTCCATTCG
6121 TGCCCAAGAC  ATTTCATTGT GGTGCGAAGC GTCCCCAGTT ACGCTCACCT GTTTCCCGAC
6181 CTCCTTACTG  TTCTGTCGAC AGAGCGGGCC CACAGGCCGG TCGCAGCCAC TAGTATGGTG
6241 GTGGCCGCCG  CCGCCAGCAG CGCCTTCTTC CCCGTGCCCG CCCCCCGCCC CACCCCCAAG
6301 CCCGGCAAGT  TCGGCAACTG GCCCAGCAGC CTGAGCCAGC CCTTCAAGCC CAAGAGCAAC
6361 CCCAACGGCC  GCTTCCAGGT GAAGGCCAAC GTGAGCCCCC ACGGGCGCGC CCCCAAGGCC
6421 AACGGCAGCG  CCGTGAGCCT GAAGTCCGGC AGCCTGAACA CCCTGGAGGA CCCCCCCAGC
6481 AGCCCCCCCC  CCCGCACCTT CCTGAACCAG CTGCCCGACT GGAGCCGCCT GCGCACCGCC
6541 ATCACCACCG  TGTTCGTGGC CGCCGAGAAG CAGTTCACCC GCCTGGACCG CAAGAGCAAG
6601 CGCCCCGACA  TGCTGGTGGA CTGGTTCGGC AGCGAGACCA TCGTGCAGGA CGGCCTGGTG
6661 TTCCGCGAGC  GCTTCAGCAT CCGCAGCTAC GAGATCGGCG CCGACCGCAC CGCCAGCATC
6721 GAGACCCTGA  TGAACCACCT GCAGGACACC AGCCTGAACC ACTGCAAGAG CGTGGGCCTG
6781 CTGAACGACG  GCTTCGGCCG CACCCCCGAG ATGTGCACCC GCGACCTGAT CTGGGTGCTG
6841 ACCAAGATGC  AGATCGTGGT GAACCGCTAC CCCACCTGGG GCGACACCGT GGAGATCAAC
6901 AGCTGGTTCA  GCCAGAGCGG CAAGATCGGC ATGGGCCGCG AGTGGCTGAT CAGCGACTGC
6961 AACACCGGCG  AGATCCTGGT GCGCGCCACC AGCGCCTGGG CCATGATGAA CCAGAAGACC
7021 CGCCGCTTCA  GCAAGCTGCC CTGCGAGGTG CGCCAGGAGA TCGCCCCCCA CTTCGTGGAC
7081 GCCCCCCCCG  TGATCGAGGA CAACGACCGC AAGCTGCACA AGTTCGACGT GAAGACCGGC
7141 GACAGCATCT  GCAAGGGCCT GACCCCCGGC TGGAACGACT TCGACGTGAA CCAGCACGTG
7201 AGCAACGTGA  AGTACATCGG CTGGATTCTG GAGAGCATGC CCACCGAGGT GCTGGAGACC
7261 CAGGAGCTGT  GCAGCCTGAC CCTGGAGTAC CGCCGCGAGT GCGGCCGCGA GAGCGTGGTG
7321 GAGAGCGTGA  CCAGCATGAA CCCCAGCAAG GTGGGCGACC GCAGCCAGTA CCAGCACCTG
7381 CTGCGCCTGG  AGGACGGCGC CGACATCATG AAGGGCCGCA CCGAGTGGCG CCCCAAGAAC
7441 GCCGGCACCA  ACCGCGCCAT CAGCACCTGA TTAATTAACT CGAGGCAGCA GCAGCTCGGA
7501 TAGTATCGAC  ACACTCTGGA CGCTGGTCGT GTGATGGACT GTTGCCGCCA CACTTGCTGC
7561 CTTGACCTGT  GAATATCCCT GCCGCTTTTA TCAAACAGCC TCAGTGTGTT TGATCTTGTG
7621 TGTACGCGCT  TTTGCGAGTT GCTAGCTGCT TGTGCTATTT GCGAATACCA CCCCCAGCAT
7681 CCCCTTCCCT  CGTTTCATAT CGCTTGCATC CCAACCGCAA CTTATCTACG CTGTCCTGCT
7741 ATCCCTCAGC  GCTGCTCCTG CTCCTGCTCA CTGCCCCTCG CACAGCCTTG GTTTGGGCTC
7801 CGCCTGTATT  CTCCTGGTAC TGCAACCTGT AAACCAGCAC TGCAATGCTG ATGCACGGGA
7861 AGTAGTGGGA  TGGGAACACA AATGGAAAGC TTGAGCTCTT GTTTTCCAGA AGGAGTTGCT
7921 CCTTGAGCCT  TTCATTCTCA GCCTCGATAA CCTCCAAAGC CGCTCTAATT GTGGAGGGGG
7981 TTCGAATTTA  AAAGCTTGGA ATGTTGGTTC GTGCGTCTGG AACAAGCCCA GACTTGTTGC
8041 TCACTGGGAA  AAGGACCATC AGCTCCAAAA AACTTGCCGC TCAAACCGCG TACCTCTGCT
8101 TTCGCGCAAT  CTGCCCTGTT GAAATCGCCA CCACATTCAT ATTGTGACGC TTGAGCAGTC
8161 TGTAATTGCC  TCAGAATGTG GAATCATCTG CCCCCTGTGC GAGCCCATGC CAGGCATGTC
8221 GCGGGCGAGG  ACACCCGCCA CTCGTACAGC AGACCATTAT GCTACCTCAC AATAGTTCAT
8281 AACAGTGACC  ATATTTCTCG AAGCTCCCCA ACGAGCACCT CCATGCTCTG AGTGGCCACC
8341 CCCCGGCCCT  GGTGCTTGCG GAGGGCAGGT CAACCGGCAT GGGGCTACCG AAATCCCCGA
8401 CCGGATCCCA  CCACCCCCGC GATGGGAAGA ATCTCTCCCC GGGATGTGGG CCCACCACCA
8461 GCACAACCTG  CTGGCCCAGG CGAGCGTCAA ACCATACCAC ACAAATATCC TTGGCATCGG
8521 CCCTGAATTC  CTTCTGCCGC TCTGCTACCC GGTGCTTCTG TCCGAAGCAG GGGTTGCTAG
8581 GGATCGCTCC  GAGTCCGCAA ACCCTTGTCG CGTGGCGGGG CTTGTTCGAG CTTGAAGAGC
8641 CTCTAGAGTC  GACCTGCAGG CATGCAAGCT TGGCGTAATC ATGGTCATAG CTGTTTCCTG
8701 TGTGAAATTG  TTATCCGCTC ACAATTCCAC ACAACATACG AGCCGGAAGC ATAAAGTGTA
8761 AAGCCTGGGG  TGCCTAATGA GTGAGCTAAC TCACATTAAT TGCGTTGCGC TCACTGCCCG
8821 CTTTCCAGTC  GGGAAACCTG TCGTGCCAGC TGCATTAATG AATCGGCCAA CGCGCGGGGA
8881 GAGGCGGTTT  GCGTATTGGG CGCTCTTCCG CTTCCTCGCT CACTGACTCG CTGCGCTCGG
8941 TCGTTCGGCT  GCGGCGAGCG GTATCAGCTC ACTCAAAGGC GGTAATACGG TTATCCACAG
9001 AATCAGGGGA  TAACGCAGGA AAGAACATGT GAGCAAAAGG CCAGCAAAAG GCCAGGAACC
9061 GTP.AAAAGGC CGCGTTGCTG GCGTTTTTCC ATAGGCTCCG CCCCCCTGAC GAGCATCACA
9121 AAP.ATCGACG CTCAAGTCAG AGGTGGCGAA ACCCGACAGG ACTATAAAGA TACCAGGCGT
9181 TTCCCCCTGG  AAGCTCCCTC GTGCGCTCTC CTGTTCCGAC CCTGCCGCTT ACCGGATACC
9241 TGTCCGCCTT  TCTCCCTTCG GGAAGCGTGG CGCTTTCTCA TAGCTCACGC TGTAGGTATC
                                 331

     9301 TCAGTTCGGT GTAGGTCGTT CGCTCCAAGC TGGGCTGTGT GCACGAACCC CCCGTTCAGC
     9361 CCGACCGCTG CGCCTTATCC GGTAACTATC GTCTTGAGTC CAACCCGGTA AGACACGACT
     9421 TATCGC
SEQ ID NO: 230
pSZ1410
        1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
      841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
      901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
      961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
     1021 CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
     1081 TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
     1141 GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
     1201 TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
     1261 GG~.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
     1321 ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
     1381 CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
     1441 TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
     1501 GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
     1561 CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
     1621 TT~.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
     1681 CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
     1741 ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
     1801 GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
     1861 AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCCGCCTGG AGCTGGTGCA GAGCATGGGG
     1921 CAGTTTGCGG  AGGAGAGGGT GCTCCCCGTG CTGCACCCCG TGGACAAGCT GTGGCAGCCG
     1981 CAGGACTTCC  TGCCCGACCC CGAGTCGCCC GACTTCGAGG ACCAGGTGGC GGAGCTGCGC
     2041 GCGCGCGCCA  AGGACCTGCC CGACGAGTAC TTTGTGGTGC TGGTGGGCGA CATGATCACG
     2101 GAGGAGGCGC  TGCCGACCTA CATGGCCATG CTCAACACCT TGGACGGTGT GCGCGACGAC
     2161 ACGGGCGCGG  CTGACCACCC GTGGGCGCGC TGGACGCGGC AGTGGGTGGC CGAGGAGAAC
     2221 CGGCACGGCG  ACCTGCTGAA CAAGTACTGT TGGCTGACGG GGCGCGTCAA CATGCGGGCC
     2281 GTGGAGGTGA  CCATCAACAA CCTGATCAAG AGCGGCATGA ACCCGCAGAC GGACAACAAC
     2341 CCTTACTTGG  GCTTCGTCTA CACCTCCTTC CAGGAGCGCG CCACCAAGTA GGTACCCTTT
     2401 CTTGCGCTAT  GACACTTCCA GCAAAAGGTA GGGCGGGCTG CGAGACGGCT TCCCGGCGCT
     2461 GCATGCAACA  CCGATGATGC TTCGACCCCC CGAAGCTCCT TCGGGGCTGC ATGGGCGCTC
     2521 CGATGCCGCT  CCAGGGCGAG CGCTGTTTAA ATAGCCAGGC CCCCGATTGC AAAGACATTA
     2581 TAGCGAGCTA  CCAAAGCCAT ATTCAAACAC CTAGATCACT ACCACTTCTA CACAGGCCAC
     2641 TCGAGCTTGT  GATCGCACTC CGCTAAGGGG GCGCCTCTTC CTCTTCGTTT CAGTCACAAC
     2701 CCGCAAACTC  TAGAATATCA ATGCTGCTGC AGGCCTTCCT GTTCCTGCTG GCCGGCTTCG
     2761 CCGCCAAGAT  CAGCGCCTCC ATGACGAACG AGACGTCCGA CCGCCCCCTG GTGCACTTCA
     2821 CCCCCAACAA  GGGCTGGATG AACGACCCCA ACGGCCTGTG GTACGACGAG AAGGACGCCA
     2881 AGTGGCACCT  GTACTTCCAG TACAACCCGA ACGACACCGT CTGGGGGACG CCCTTGTTCT
     2941 GGGGCCACGC  CACGTCCGAC GACCTGACCA ACTGGGAGGA CCAGCCCATC GCCATCGCCC
     3001 CG~.AGCGCAA CGACTCCGGC GCCTTCTCCG GCTCCATGGT GGTGGACTAC AACAACACCT
     3061 CCGGCTTCTT  CAACGACACC ATCGACCCGC GCCAGCGCTG CGTGGCCATC TGGACCTACA
     3121 ACACCCCGGA  GTCCGAGGAG CAGTACATCT CCTACAGCCT GGACGGCGGC TACACCTTCA
                                      332

3181 CCGAGTACCA  GAAGAACCCC GTGCTGGCCG CCAACTCCAC CCAGTTCCGC GACCCGAAGG
3241 TCTTCTGGTA  CGAGCCCTCC CAGAAGTGGA TCATGACCGC GGCCAAGTCC CAGGACTACA
3301 AGATCGAGAT  CTACTCCTCC GACGACCTGA AGTCCTGGAA GCTGGAGTCC GCGTTCGCCA
3361 ACGAGGGCTT  CCTCGGCTAC CAGTACGAGT GCCCCGGCCT GATCGAGGTC CCCACCGAGC
3421 AGGACCCCAG  CAAGTCCTAC TGGGTGATGT TCATCTCCAT CAACCCCGGC GCCCCGGCCG
3481 GCGGCTCCTT  CAACCAGTAC TTCGTCGGCA GCTTCAACGG CACCCACTTC GAGGCCTTCG
3541 ACP.ACCAGTC CCGCGTGGTG GACTTCGGCA AGGACTACTA CGCCCTGCAG ACCTTCTTCA
3601 ACACCGACCC  GACCTACGGG AGCGCCCTGG GCATCGCGTG GGCCTCCAAC TGGGAGTACT
3661 CCGCCTTCGT  GCCCACCAAC CCCTGGCGCT CCTCCATGTC CCTCGTGCGC AAGTTCTCCC
3721 TCP.ACACCGA GTACCAGGCC AACCCGGAGA CGGAGCTGAT CAACCTGAAG GCCGAGCCGA
3781 TCCTGAACAT  CAGCAACGCC GGCCCCTGGA GCCGGTTCGC CACCAACACC ACGTTGACGA
3841 AGGCCAACAG  CTACAACGTC GACCTGTCCA ACAGCACCGG CACCCTGGAG TTCGAGCTGG
3901 TGTACGCCGT  CAACACCACC CAGACGATCT CCAAGTCCGT GTTCGCGGAC CTCTCCCTCT
3961 GGTTCAAGGG  CCTGGAGGAC CCCGAGGAGT ACCTCCGCAT GGGCTTCGAG GTGTCCGCGT
4021 CCTCCTTCTT  CCTGGACCGC GGGAACAGCA AGGTGAAGTT CGTGAAGGAG AACCCCTACT
4081 TCACCAACCG  CATGAGCGTG AACAACCAGC CCTTCAAGAG CGAGAACGAC CTGTCCTACT
4141 ACP.AGGTGTA CGGCTTGCTG GACCAGAACA TCCTGGAGCT GTACTTCAAC GACGGCGACG
4201 TCGTGTCCAC  CAACACCTAC TTCATGACCA CCGGGAACGC CCTGGGCTCC GTGAACATGA
4261 CGACGGGGGT  GGACAACCTG TTCTACATCG ACAAGTTCCA GGTGCGCGAG GTCAAGTGAC
4321 AATTGGCAGC  AGCAGCTCGG ATAGTATCGA CACACTCTGG ACGCTGGTCG TGTGATGGAC
4381 TGTTGCCGCC  ACACTTGCTG CCTTGACCTG TGAATATCCC TGCCGCTTTT ATCAAACAGC
4441 CTCAGTGTGT  TTGATCTTGT GTGTACGCGC TTTTGCGAGT TGCTAGCTGC TTGTGCTATT
4501 TGCGAATACC  ACCCCCAGCA TCCCCTTCCC TCGTTTCATA TCGCTTGCAT CCCAACCGCA
4561 ACTTATCTAC  GCTGTCCTGC TATCCCTCAG CGCTGCTCCT GCTCCTGCTC ACTGCCCCTC
4621 GCACAGCCTT  GGTTTGGGCT CCGCCTGTAT TCTCCTGGTA CTGCAACCTG TAAACCAGCA
4681 CTGCAATGCT  GATGCACGGG AAGTAGTGGG ATGGGAACAC AAATGGAGGA TCCCGCGTCT
4741 CGP.ACAGAGC GCGCAGAGGA ACGCTGAAGG TCTCGCCTCT GTCGCACCTC AGCGCGGCAT
4801 ACACCACAAT  AACCACCTGA CGAATGCGCT TGGTTCTTCG TCCATTAGCG AAGCGTCCGG
4861 TTCACACACG  TGCCACGTTG GCGAGGTGGC AGGTGACAAT GATCGGTGGA GCTGATGGTC
4921 GAP.ACGTTCA CAGCCTAGGG ATATCGAATT CGGCCGACAG GACGCGCGTC AAAGGTGCTG
4981 GTCGTGTATG  CCCTGGCCGG CAGGTCGTTG CTGCTGCTGG TTAGTGATTC CGCAACCCTG
5041 ATTTTGGCGT  CTTATTTTGG CGTGGCAAAC GCTGGCGCCC GCGAGCCGGG CCGGCGGCGA
5101 TGCGGTGCCC  CACGGCTGCC GGAATCCAAG GGAGGCAAGA GCGCCCGGGT CAGTTGAAGG
5161 GCTTTACGCG  CAAGGTACAG CCGCTCCTGC AAGGCTGCGT GGTGGAATTG GACGTGCAGG
5221 TCCTGCTGAA  GTTCCTCCAC CGCCTCACCA GCGGACAAAG CACCGGTGTA TCAGGTCCGT
5281 GTCATCCACT  CTAAAGAACT CGACTACGAC CTACTGATGG CCCTAGATTC TTCATCAAAA
5341 ACGCCTGAGA  CACTTGCCCA GGATTGAAAC TCCCTGAAGG GACCACCAGG GGCCCTGAGT
5401 TGTTCCTTCC  CCCCGTGGCG AGCTGCCAGC CAGGCTGTAC CTGTGATCGA GGCTGGCGGG
5461 AAP.ATAGGCT TCGTGTGCTC AGGTCATGGG AGGTGCAGGA CAGCTCATGA AACGCCAACA
5521 ATCGCACAAT  TCATGTCAAG CTAATCAGCT ATTTCCTCTT CACGAGCTGT AATTGTCCCA
5581 AAATTCTGGT  CTACCGGGGG TGATCCTTCG TGTACGGGCC CTTCCCTCAA CCCTAGGTAT
5641 GCGCGCATGC  GGTCGCCGCG CAACTCGCGC GAGGGCCGAG GGTTTGGGAC GGGCCGTCCC
5701 GAP.ATGCAGT TGCACCCGGA TGCGTGGCAC CTTTTTTGCG ATAATTTATG CAATGGACTG
5761 CTCTGCAAAA  TTCTGGCTCT GTCGCCAACC CTAGGATCAG CGGCGTAGGA TTTCGTAATC
5821 ATTCGTCCTG  ATGGGGAGCT ACCGACTACC CTAATATCAG CCCGACTGCC TGACGCCAGC
5881 GTCCACTTTT  GTGCACACAT TCCATTCGTG CCCAAGACAT TTCATTGTGG TGCGAAGCGT
5941 CCCCAGTTAC  GCTCACCTGT TTCCCGACCT CCTTACTGTT CTGTCGACAG AGCGGGCCCA
6001 CAGGCCGGTC  GCAGCCACTA GTATGGTGGT GGCCGCCGCC GCCAGCAGCG CCTTCTTCCC
6061 CGTGCCCGCC  CCCCGCCCCA CCCCCAAGCC CGGCAAGTTC GGCAACTGGC CCAGCAGCCT
6121 GAGCCAGCCC  TTCAAGCCCA AGAGCAACCC CAACGGCCGC TTCCAGGTGA AGGCCAACGT
6181 GAGCCCCCAC  GGGCGCGCCC CCAAGGCCAA CGGCAGCGCC GTGAGCCTGA AGTCCGGCAG
6241 CCTGAACACC  CTGGAGGACC CCCCCAGCAG CCCCCCCCCC CGCACCTTCC TGAACCAGCT
6301 GCCCGACTGG  AGCCGCCTGC GCACCGCCAT CACCACCGTG TTCGTGGCCG CCGAGAAGCA
6361 GTTCACCCGC  CTGGACCGCA AGAGCAAGCG CCCCGACATG CTGGTGGACT GGTTCGGCAG
6421 CGAGACCATC  GTGCAGGACG GCCTGGTGTT CCGCGAGCGC TTCAGCATCC GCAGCTACGA
6481 GATCGGCGCC  GACCGCACCG CCAGCATCGA GACCCTGATG AACCACCTGC AGGACACCAG
6541 CCTGAACCAC  TGCAAGAGCG TGGGCCTGCT GAACGACGGC TTCGGCCGCA CCCCCGAGAT
6601 GTGCACCCGC  GACCTGATCT GGGTGCTGAC CAAGATGCAG ATCGTGGTGA ACCGCTACCC
6661 CACCTGGGGC  GACACCGTGG AGATCAACAG CTGGTTCAGC CAGAGCGGCA AGATCGGCAT
6721 GGGCCGCGAG  TGGCTGATCA GCGACTGCAA CACCGGCGAG ATCCTGGTGC GCGCCACCAG
6781 CGCCTGGGCC  ATGATGAACC AGAAGACCCG CCGCTTCAGC AAGCTGCCCT GCGAGGTGCG
                                 333

     6841 CCAGGAGATC GCCCCCCACT TCGTGGACGC CCCCCCCGTG ATCGAGGACA ACGACCGCAA
     6901 GCTGCACAAG TTCGACGTGA AGACCGGCGA CAGCATCTGC AAGGGCCTGA CCCCCGGCTG
     6961 GAACGACTTC GACGTGAACC AGCACGTGAG CAACGTGAAG TACATCGGCT GGATTCTGGA
     7021 GAGCATGCCC ACCGAGGTGC TGGAGACCCA GGAGCTGTGC AGCCTGACCC TGGAGTACCG
     7081 CCGCGAGTGC GGCCGCGAGA GCGTGGTGGA GAGCGTGACC AGCATGAACC CCAGCAAGGT
     7141 GGGCGACCGC AGCCAGTACC AGCACCTGCT GCGCCTGGAG GACGGCGCCG ACATCATGAA
     7201 GGGCCGCACC GAGTGGCGCC CCAAGAACGC CGGCACCAAC CGCGCCATCA GCACCTGATT
     7261 AATTAACTCG AGGCAGCAGC AGCTCGGATA GTATCGACAC ACTCTGGACG CTGGTCGTGT
     7321 GATGGACTGT TGCCGCCACA CTTGCTGCCT TGACCTGTGA ATATCCCTGC CGCTTTTATC
     7381 AAACAGCCTC AGTGTGTTTG ATCTTGTGTG TACGCGCTTT TGCGAGTTGC TAGCTGCTTG
     7441 TGCTATTTGC GAATACCACC CCCAGCATCC CCTTCCCTCG TTTCATATCG CTTGCATCCC
     7501 AACCGCAACT TATCTACGCT GTCCTGCTAT CCCTCAGCGC TGCTCCTGCT CCTGCTCACT
     7561 GCCCCTCGCA CAGCCTTGGT TTGGGCTCCG CCTGTATTCT CCTGGTACTG CAACCTGTAA
     7621 ACCAGCACTG CAATGCTGAT GCACGGGAAG TAGTGGGATG GGAACACAAA TGGAAAGCTT
     7681 GAGCTCCAGC CACGGCAACA CCGCGCGCCT TGCGGCCGAG CACGGCGACA AGAACCTGAG
     7741 CAAGATCTGC GGGCTGATCG CCAGCGACGA GGGCCGGCAC GAGATCGCCT ACACGCGCAT
     7801 CGTGGACGAG TTCTTCCGCC TCGACCCCGA GGGCGCCGTC GCCGCCTACG CCAACATGAT
     7861 GCGCAAGCAG ATCACCATGC CCGCGCACCT CATGGACGAC ATGGGCCACG GCGAGGCCAA
     7921 CCCGGGCCGC AACCTCTTCG CCGACTTCTC CGCGGTCGCC GAGAAGATCG ACGTCTACGA
     7981 CGCCGAGGAC TACTGCCGCA TCCTGGAGCA CCTCAACGCG CGCTGGAAGG TGGACGAGCG
     8041 CCAGGTCAGC GGCCAGGCCG CCGCGGACCA GGAGTACGTC CTGGGCCTGC CCCAGCGCTT
     8101 CCGGAAACTC GCCGAGAAGA CCGCCGCCAA GCGCAAGCGC GTCGCGCGCA GGCCCGTCGC
     8161 CTTCTCCTGG AGAAGAGCCT CTAGAGTCGA CCTGCAGGCA TGCAAGCTTG GCGTAATCAT
     8221 GGTCATAGCT GTTTCCTGTG TGAAATTGTT ATCCGCTCAC AATTCCACAC AACATACGAG
     8281 CCGGAAGCAT AAAGTGTAAA GCCTGGGGTG CCTAATGAGT GAGCTAACTC ACATTAATTG
     8341 CGTTGCGCTC ACTGCCCGCT TTCCAGTCGG GAAACCTGTC GTGCCAGCTG CATTAATGAA
     8401 TCGGCCAACG CGCGGGGAGA GGCGGTTTGC GTATTGGGCG CTCTTCCGCT TCCTCGCTCA
     8461 CTGACTCGCT GCGCTCGGTC GTTCGGCTGC GGCGAGCGGT ATCAGCTCAC TCAAAGGCGG
     8521 TAATACGGTT ATCCACAGAA TCAGGGGATA ACGCAGGAAA GAACATGTGA GCAAAAGGCC
     8581 AGCAAAAGGC CAGGAACCGT AAAAAGGCCG CGTTGCTGGC GTTTTTCCAT AGGCTCCGCC
     8641 CCCCTGACGA GCATCACAAA AATCGACGCT CAAGTCAGAG GTGGCGAAAC CCGACAGGAC
     8701 TATAAAGATA CCAGGCGTTT CCCCCTGGAA GCTCCCTCGT GCGCTCTCCT GTTCCGACCC
     8761 TGCCGCTTAC CGGATACCTG TCCGCCTTTC TCCCTTCGGG AAGCGTGGCG CTTTCTCATA
     8821 GCTCACGCTG TAGGTATCTC AGTTCGGTGT AGGTCGTTCG CTCCAAGCTG GGCTGTGTGC
     8881 ACGAACCCCC CGTTCAGCCC GACCGCTGCG CCTTATCCGG TAACTATCGT CTTGAGTCCA
     8941 ACCCGGTAAG ACACGACTTA TCGC
SEQ ID NO: 231
pSZ1413
        1 CACTGGCAGC AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
      841 TTAGCTCCTT CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
      901 TGGTTATGGC AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
      961 TGACTGGTGA GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
     1021 CTTGCCCGGC GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
     1081 TCATTGGAAA ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
     1141 GTTCGATGTA ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
                                     334

1201 TTTCTGGGTG AGCAAAAACA  GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
1261 GG~.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
1321 ATTGTCTCAT GAGCGGATAC  ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
1381 CGCGCACATT TCCCCGAAAA  GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
1441 TAACCTATAA AAATAGGCGT  ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
1501 GTGAAAACCT CTGACACATG  CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
1561 CCGGGAGCAG ACAAGCCCGT  CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
1621 TT~.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
1681 CGCACAGATG CGTAAGGAGA  AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
1741 ACTGTTGGGA AGGGCGATCG  GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
1801 GATGTGCTGC AAGGCGATTA  AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
1861 AAACGACGGC CAGTGAATTG  ATGCATGCTC TTCCGCCTGG AGCTGGTGCA GAGCATGGGG
1921 CAGTTTGCGG AGGAGAGGGT  GCTCCCCGTG CTGCACCCCG TGGACAAGCT GTGGCAGCCG
1981 CAGGACTTCC TGCCCGACCC  CGAGTCGCCC GACTTCGAGG ACCAGGTGGC GGAGCTGCGC
2041 GCGCGCGCCA AGGACCTGCC  CGACGAGTAC TTTGTGGTGC TGGTGGGCGA CATGATCACG
2101 GAGGAGGCGC TGCCGACCTA  CATGGCCATG CTCAACACCT TGGACGGTGT GCGCGACGAC
2161 ACGGGCGCGG CTGACCACCC  GTGGGCGCGC TGGACGCGGC AGTGGGTGGC CGAGGAGAAC
2221 CGGCACGGCG ACCTGCTGAA  CAAGTACTGT TGGCTGACGG GGCGCGTCAA CATGCGGGCC
2281 GTGGAGGTGA CCATCAAC~.A CCTGATCAAG AGCGGCATGA ACCCGCAGAC GGACAACAAC
2341 CCTTACTTGG GCTTCGTCTA  CACCTCCTTC CAGGAGCGCG CCACCAAGTA GGTACCCTTT
2401 CTTGCGCTAT GACACTTCCA  GCAAAAGGTA GGGCGGGCTG CGAGACGGCT TCCCGGCGCT
2461 GCATGCAACA CCGATGATGC  TTCGACCCCC CGAAGCTCCT TCGGGGCTGC ATGGGCGCTC
2521 CGATGCCGCT CCAGGGCGAG  CGCTGTTTAA ATAGCCAGGC CCCCGATTGC AAAGACATTA
2581 TAGCGAGCTA CCAAAGCCAT  ATTCAAACAC CTAGATCACT ACCACTTCTA CACAGGCCAC
2641 TCGAGCTTGT GATCGCACTC  CGCTAAGGGG GCGCCTCTTC CTCTTCGTTT CAGTCACAAC
2701 CCGCAAACTC TAGAATATCA  ATGCTGCTGC AGGCCTTCCT GTTCCTGCTG GCCGGCTTCG
2761 CCGCCAAGAT CAGCGCCTCC  ATGACGAACG AGACGTCCGA CCGCCCCCTG GTGCACTTCA
2821 CCCCCAACAA GGGCTGGATG  AACGACCCCA ACGGCCTGTG GTACGACGAG AAGGACGCCA
2881 AGTGGCACCT GTACTTCCAG  TACAACCCGA ACGACACCGT CTGGGGGACG CCCTTGTTCT
2941 GGGGCCACGC CACGTCCGAC  GACCTGACCA ACTGGGAGGA CCAGCCCATC GCCATCGCCC
3001 CG~.AGCGCAA CGACTCCGGC GCCTTCTCCG GCTCCATGGT GGTGGACTAC AACAACACCT
3061 CCGGCTTCTT CAACGACACC  ATCGACCCGC GCCAGCGCTG CGTGGCCATC TGGACCTACA
3121 ACACCCCGGA GTCCGAGGAG  CAGTACATCT CCTACAGCCT GGACGGCGGC TACACCTTCA
3181 CCGAGTACCA GAAGAACCCC  GTGCTGGCCG CCAACTCCAC CCAGTTCCGC GACCCGAAGG
3241 TCTTCTGGTA CGAGCCCTCC  CAGAAGTGGA TCATGACCGC GGCCAAGTCC CAGGACTACA
3301 AGATCGAGAT CTACTCCTCC  GACGACCTGA AGTCCTGGAA GCTGGAGTCC GCGTTCGCCA
3361 ACGAGGGCTT CCTCGGCTAC  CAGTACGAGT GCCCCGGCCT GATCGAGGTC CCCACCGAGC
3421 AGGACCCCAG CAAGTCCTAC  TGGGTGATGT TCATCTCCAT CAACCCCGGC GCCCCGGCCG
3481 GCGGCTCCTT CAACCAGTAC  TTCGTCGGCA GCTTCAACGG CACCCACTTC GAGGCCTTCG
3541 AC~.ACCAGTC CCGCGTGGTG GACTTCGGCA AGGACTACTA CGCCCTGCAG ACCTTCTTCA
3601 ACACCGACCC GACCTACGGG  AGCGCCCTGG GCATCGCGTG GGCCTCCAAC TGGGAGTACT
3661 CCGCCTTCGT GCCCACCAAC  CCCTGGCGCT CCTCCATGTC CCTCGTGCGC AAGTTCTCCC
3721 TC~.ACACCGA GTACCAGGCC AACCCGGAGA CGGAGCTGAT CAACCTGAAG GCCGAGCCGA
3781 TCCTGAACAT CAGCAACGCC  GGCCCCTGGA GCCGGTTCGC CACCAACACC ACGTTGACGA
3841 AGGCCAACAG CTACAACGTC  GACCTGTCCA ACAGCACCGG CACCCTGGAG TTCGAGCTGG
3901 TGTACGCCGT CAACACCACC  CAGACGATCT CCAAGTCCGT GTTCGCGGAC CTCTCCCTCT
3961 GGTTCAAGGG CCTGGAGGAC  CCCGAGGAGT ACCTCCGCAT GGGCTTCGAG GTGTCCGCGT
4021 CCTCCTTCTT CCTGGACCGC  GGGAACAGCA AGGTGAAGTT CGTGAAGGAG AACCCCTACT
4081 TCACCAACCG CATGAGCGTG  AACAACCAGC CCTTCAAGAG CGAGAACGAC CTGTCCTACT
4141 AC~.AGGTGTA CGGCTTGCTG GACCAGAACA TCCTGGAGCT GTACTTCAAC GACGGCGACG
4201 TCGTGTCCAC CAACACCTAC  TTCATGACCA CCGGGAACGC CCTGGGCTCC GTGAACATGA
4261 CGACGGGGGT GGACAACCTG  TTCTACATCG ACAAGTTCCA GGTGCGCGAG GTCAAGTGAC
4321 AATTGGCAGC AGCAGCTCGG  ATAGTATCGA CACACTCTGG ACGCTGGTCG TGTGATGGAC
4381 TGTTGCCGCC ACACTTGCTG  CCTTGACCTG TGAATATCCC TGCCGCTTTT ATCAAACAGC
4441 CTCAGTGTGT TTGATCTTGT  GTGTACGCGC TTTTGCGAGT TGCTAGCTGC TTGTGCTATT
4501 TGCGAATACC ACCCCCAGCA  TCCCCTTCCC TCGTTTCATA TCGCTTGCAT CCCAACCGCA
4561 ACTTATCTAC GCTGTCCTGC  TATCCCTCAG CGCTGCTCCT GCTCCTGCTC ACTGCCCCTC
4621 GCACAGCCTT GGTTTGGGCT  CCGCCTGTAT TCTCCTGGTA CTGCAACCTG TAAACCAGCA
4681 CTGCAATGCT GATGCACGGG  AAGTAGTGGG ATGGGAACAC AAATGGAGGA TCCCGCGTCT
4741 CG~.ACAGAGC GCGCAGAGGA ACGCTGAAGG TCTCGCCTCT GTCGCACCTC AGCGCGGCAT
4801 ACACCACAAT AACCACCTGA  CGAATGCGCT TGGTTCTTCG TCCATTAGCG AAGCGTCCGG
                                 335

4861 TTCACACACG  TGCCACGTTG GCGAGGTGGC AGGTGACAAT GATCGGTGGA GCTGATGGTC
4921 GAP.ACGTTCA CAGCCTAGGG ATATCGAATT CGGCCGACAG GACGCGCGTC AAAGGTGCTG
4981 GTCGTGTATG  CCCTGGCCGG CAGGTCGTTG CTGCTGCTGG TTAGTGATTC CGCAACCCTG
5041 ATTTTGGCGT  CTTATTTTGG CGTGGCAAAC GCTGGCGCCC GCGAGCCGGG CCGGCGGCGA
5101 TGCGGTGCCC  CACGGCTGCC GGAATCCAAG GGAGGCAAGA GCGCCCGGGT CAGTTGAAGG
5161 GCTTTACGCG  CAAGGTACAG CCGCTCCTGC AAGGCTGCGT GGTGGAATTG GACGTGCAGG
5221 TCCTGCTGAA  GTTCCTCCAC CGCCTCACCA GCGGACAAAG CACCGGTGTA TCAGGTCCGT
5281 GTCATCCACT  CTAAAGAACT CGACTACGAC CTACTGATGG CCCTAGATTC TTCATCAAAA
5341 ACGCCTGAGA  CACTTGCCCA GGATTGAAAC TCCCTGAAGG GACCACCAGG GGCCCTGAGT
5401 TGTTCCTTCC  CCCCGTGGCG AGCTGCCAGC CAGGCTGTAC CTGTGATCGA GGCTGGCGGG
5461 AAP.ATAGGCT TCGTGTGCTC AGGTCATGGG AGGTGCAGGA CAGCTCATGA AACGCCAACA
5521 ATCGCACAAT  TCATGTCAAG CTAATCAGCT ATTTCCTCTT CACGAGCTGT AATTGTCCCA
5581 AAATTCTGGT  CTACCGGGGG TGATCCTTCG TGTACGGGCC CTTCCCTCAA CCCTAGGTAT
5641 GCGCGCATGC  GGTCGCCGCG CAACTCGCGC GAGGGCCGAG GGTTTGGGAC GGGCCGTCCC
5701 GAP.ATGCAGT TGCACCCGGA TGCGTGGCAC CTTTTTTGCG ATAATTTATG CAATGGACTG
5761 CTCTGCAAAA  TTCTGGCTCT GTCGCCAACC CTAGGATCAG CGGCGTAGGA TTTCGTAATC
5821 ATTCGTCCTG  ATGGGGAGCT ACCGACTACC CTAATATCAG CCCGACTGCC TGACGCCAGC
5881 GTCCACTTTT  GTGCACACAT TCCATTCGTG CCCAAGACAT TTCATTGTGG TGCGAAGCGT
5941 CCCCAGTTAC  GCTCACCTGT TTCCCGACCT CCTTACTGTT CTGTCGACAG AGCGGGCCCA
6001 CAGGCCGGTC  GCAGCCACTA GTATGGCTAT CAAGACGAAC AGGCAGCCTG TGGAGAAGCC
6061 TCCGTTCACG  ATCGGGACGC TGCGCAAGGC CATCCCCGCG CACTGTTTCG AGCGCTCGGC
6121 GCTTCGTGGG  CGCGCCCCCA AGGCCAACGG CAGCGCCGTG AGCCTGAAGT CCGGCAGCCT
6181 GAACACCCTG  GAGGACCCCC CCAGCAGCCC CCCCCCCCGC ACCTTCCTGA ACCAGCTGCC
6241 CGACTGGAGC  CGCCTGCGCA CCGCCATCAC CACCGTGTTC GTGGCCGCCG AGAAGCAGTT
6301 CACCCGCCTG  GACCGCAAGA GCAAGCGCCC CGACATGCTG GTGGACTGGT TCGGCAGCGA
6361 GACCATCGTG  CAGGACGGCC TGGTGTTCCG CGAGCGCTTC AGCATCCGCA GCTACGAGAT
6421 CGGCGCCGAC  CGCACCGCCA GCATCGAGAC CCTGATGAAC CACCTGCAGG ACACCAGCCT
6481 GAACCACTGC  AAGAGCGTGG GCCTGCTGAA CGACGGCTTC GGCCGCACCC CCGAGATGTG
6541 CACCCGCGAC  CTGATCTGGG TGCTGACCAA GATGCAGATC GTGGTGAACC GCTACCCCAC
6601 CTGGGGCGAC  ACCGTGGAGA TCAACAGCTG GTTCAGCCAG AGCGGCAAGA TCGGCATGGG
6661 CCGCGAGTGG  CTGATCAGCG ACTGCAACAC CGGCGAGATC CTGGTGCGCG CCACCAGCGC
6721 CTGGGCCATG  ATGAACCAGA AGACCCGCCG CTTCAGCAAG CTGCCCTGCG AGGTGCGCCA
6781 GGAGATCGCC  CCCCACTTCG TGGACGCCCC CCCCGTGATC GAGGACAACG ACCGCAAGCT
6841 GCACAAGTTC  GACGTGAAGA CCGGCGACAG CATCTGCAAG GGCCTGACCC CCGGCTGGAA
6901 CGACTTCGAC  GTGAACCAGC ACGTGAGCAA CGTGAAGTAC ATCGGCTGGA TTCTGGAGAG
6961 CATGCCCACC  GAGGTGCTGG AGACCCAGGA GCTGTGCAGC CTGACCCTGG AGTACCGCCG
7021 CGAGTGCGGC  CGCGAGAGCG TGGTGGAGAG CGTGACCAGC ATGAACCCCA GCAAGGTGGG
7081 CGACCGCAGC  CAGTACCAGC ACCTGCTGCG CCTGGAGGAC GGCGCCGACA TCATGAAGGG
7141 CCGCACCGAG  TGGCGCCCCA AGAACGCCGG CACCAACCGC GCCATCAGCA CCTGATTAAT
7201 TAACTCGAGG  CAGCAGCAGC TCGGATAGTA TCGACACACT CTGGACGCTG GTCGTGTGAT
7261 GGACTGTTGC  CGCCACACTT GCTGCCTTGA CCTGTGAATA TCCCTGCCGC TTTTATCAAA
7321 CAGCCTCAGT  GTGTTTGATC TTGTGTGTAC GCGCTTTTGC GAGTTGCTAG CTGCTTGTGC
7381 TATTTGCGAA  TACCACCCCC AGCATCCCCT TCCCTCGTTT CATATCGCTT GCATCCCAAC
7441 CGCAACTTAT  CTACGCTGTC CTGCTATCCC TCAGCGCTGC TCCTGCTCCT GCTCACTGCC
7501 CCTCGCACAG  CCTTGGTTTG GGCTCCGCCT GTATTCTCCT GGTACTGCAA CCTGTAAACC
7561 AGCACTGCAA  TGCTGATGCA CGGGAAGTAG TGGGATGGGA ACACAAATGG AAAGCTTGAG
7621 CTCCAGCCAC  GGCAACACCG CGCGCCTTGC GGCCGAGCAC GGCGACAAGA ACCTGAGCAA
7681 GATCTGCGGG  CTGATCGCCA GCGACGAGGG CCGGCACGAG ATCGCCTACA CGCGCATCGT
7741 GGACGAGTTC  TTCCGCCTCG ACCCCGAGGG CGCCGTCGCC GCCTACGCCA ACATGATGCG
7801 CAAGCAGATC  ACCATGCCCG CGCACCTCAT GGACGACATG GGCCACGGCG AGGCCAACCC
7861 GGGCCGCAAC  CTCTTCGCCG ACTTCTCCGC GGTCGCCGAG AAGATCGACG TCTACGACGC
7921 CGAGGACTAC  TGCCGCATCC TGGAGCACCT CAACGCGCGC TGGAAGGTGG ACGAGCGCCA
7981 GGTCAGCGGC  CAGGCCGCCG CGGACCAGGA GTACGTCCTG GGCCTGCCCC AGCGCTTCCG
8041 GAP.ACTCGCC GAGAAGACCG CCGCCAAGCG CAAGCGCGTC GCGCGCAGGC CCGTCGCCTT
8101 CTCCTGGAGA  AGAGCCTCTA GAGTCGACCT GCAGGCATGC AAGCTTGGCG TAATCATGGT
8161 CATAGCTGTT  TCCTGTGTGA AATTGTTATC CGCTCACAAT TCCACACAAC ATACGAGCCG
8221 GAAGCATAAA  GTGTAAAGCC TGGGGTGCCT AATGAGTGAG CTAACTCACA TTAATTGCGT
8281 TGCGCTCACT  GCCCGCTTTC CAGTCGGGAA ACCTGTCGTG CCAGCTGCAT TAATGAATCG
8341 GCCAACGCGC  GGGGAGAGGC GGTTTGCGTA TTGGGCGCTC TTCCGCTTCC TCGCTCACTG
8401 ACTCGCTGCG  CTCGGTCGTT CGGCTGCGGC GAGCGGTATC AGCTCACTCA AAGGCGGTAA
8461 TACGGTTATC  CACAGAATCA GGGGATAACG CAGGAAAGAA CATGTGAGCA AAAGGCCAGC
                                 336

     8521 AAPAGGCCAG GAACCGTAAA AAGGCCGCGT TGCTGGCGTT TTTCCATAGG CTCCGCCCCC
     8581 CTGACGAGCA TCACAAAAAT CGACGCTCAA GTCAGAGGTG GCGAAACCCG ACAGGACTAT
     8641 AAAGATACCA GGCGTTTCCC CCTGGAAGCT CCCTCGTGCG CTCTCCTGTT CCGACCCTGC
     8701 CGCTTACCGG ATACCTGTCC GCCTTTCTCC CTTCGGGAAG CGTGGCGCTT TCTCATAGCT
     8761 CACGCTGTAG GTATCTCAGT TCGGTGTAGG TCGTTCGCTC CAAGCTGGGC TGTGTGCACG
     8821 AACCCCCCGT TCAGCCCGAC CGCTGCGCCT TATCCGGTAA CTATCGTCTT GAGTCCAACC
     8881 CGGTAAGACA CGACTTATCG C
SEQ ID NO: 232
pSZ1491
        1 CACTGGCAGC AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
      841 TTAGCTCCTT CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
      901 TGGTTATGGC AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
      961 TGACTGGTGA GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
     1021 CTTGCCCGGC GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
     1081 TCATTGGAAA ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
     1141 GTTCGATGTA ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
     1201 TTTCTGGGTG AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
     1261 GGPAATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
     1321 ATTGTCTCAT GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
     1381 CGCGCACATT TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
     1441 TAACCTATAA AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
     1501 GTGAAAACCT CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
     1561 CCGGGAGCAG ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
     1621 TTPACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
     1681 CGCACAGATG CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
     1741 ACTGTTGGGA AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
     1801 GATGTGCTGC AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
     1861 AAACGACGGC CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCGCCGCCG CCACTCCTGC TCGAGCGCGC
     1921 CCGCGCGTGC GCCGCCAGCG CCTTGGCCTT TTCGCCGCGC TCGTGCGCGT CGCTGATGTC
     1981 CATCACCAGG TCCATGAGGT CTGCCTTGCG CCGGCTGAGC CACTGCTTCG TCCGGGCGGC
     2041 CAAGAGGAGC ATGAGGGAGG ACTCCTGGTC CAGGGTCCTG ACGTGGTCGC GGCTCTGGGA
     2101 GCGGGCCAGC ATCATCTGGC TCTGCCGCAC CGAGGCCGCC TCCAACTGGT CCTCCAGCAG
     2161 CCGCAGTCGC CGCCGACCCT GGCAGAGGAA GACAGGTGAG GGGGGTATGA ATTGTACAGA
     2221 ACPACCACGA GCCTTGTCTA GGCAGAATCC CTACCAGTCA TGGCTTTACC TGGATGACGG
     2281 CCTGCGAACA GCTGTCCAGC GACCCTCGCT GCCGCCGCTT CTCCCGCACG CTTCTTTCCA
     2341 GCACCGTGAT GGCGCGAGCC AGCGCCGCAC GCTGGCGCTG CGCTTCGCCG ATCTGAGGAC
     2401 AGTCGGGGAA CTCTGATCAG TCTAAACCCC CTTGCGCGTT AGTGTTGCCA TCCTTTGCAG
     2461 ACCGGTGAGA GCCGACTTGT TGTGCGCCAC CCCCCACACC ACCTCCTCCC AGACCAATTC
     2521 TGTCACCTTT TTGGCGAAGG CATCGGCCTC GGCCTGCAGA GAGGACAGCA GTGCCCAGCC
     2581 GCTGGGGGTT GGCGGATGCA CGCTCAGGTA CCCTTTCTTG CGCTATGACA CTTCCAGCAA
     2641 AAGGTAGGGC GGGCTGCGAG ACGGCTTCCC GGCGCTGCAT GCAACACCGA TGATGCTTCG
     2701 ACCCCCCGAA GCTCCTTCGG GGCTGCATGG GCGCTCCGAT GCCGCTCCAG GGCGAGCGCT
     2761 GTTTAAATAG CCAGGCCCCC GATTGCAAAG ACATTATAGC GAGCTACCAA AGCCATATTC
     2821 AAACACCTAG ATCACTACCA CTTCTACACA GGCCACTCGA GCTTGTGATC GCACTCCGCT
     2881 AAGGGGGCGC CTCTTCCTCT TCGTTTCAGT CACAACCCGC AAACTCTAGA ATATCAATGC
                                     337

2941 TGCTGCAGGC   CTTCCTGTTC CTGCTGGCCG GCTTCGCCGC CAAGATCAGC GCCTCCATGA
3001 CGPJ\.CGAGAC GTCCGACCGC CCCCTGGTGC ACTTCACCCC CAACAAGGGC TGGATGAACG
3061 ACCCCAACGG   CCTGTGGTAC GACGAGAAGG ACGCCAAGTG GCACCTGTAC TTCCAGTACA
3121 ACCCGAACGA   CACCGTCTGG GGGACGCCCT TGTTCTGGGG CCACGCCACG TCCGACGACC
3181 TGACCAACTG   GGAGGACCAG CCCATCGCCA TCGCCCCGAA GCGCAACGAC TCCGGCGCCT
3241 TCTCCGGCTC   CATGGTGGTG GACTACAACA ACACCTCCGG CTTCTTCAAC GACACCATCG
3301 ACCCGCGCCA   GCGCTGCGTG GCCATCTGGA CCTACAACAC CCCGGAGTCC GAGGAGCAGT
3361 ACATCTCCTA   CAGCCTGGAC GGCGGCTACA CCTTCACCGA GTACCAGAAG AACCCCGTGC
3421 TGGCCGCCAA   CTCCACCCAG TTCCGCGACC CGAAGGTCTT CTGGTACGAG CCCTCCCAGA
3481 AGTGGATCAT   GACCGCGGCC AAGTCCCAGG ACTACAAGAT CGAGATCTAC TCCTCCGACG
3541 ACCTGAAGTC   CTGGAAGCTG GAGTCCGCGT TCGCCAACGA GGGCTTCCTC GGCTACCAGT
3601 ACGAGTGCCC   CGGCCTGATC GAGGTCCCCA CCGAGCAGGA CCCCAGCAAG TCCTACTGGG
3661 TGATGTTCAT   CTCCATCAAC CCCGGCGCCC CGGCCGGCGG CTCCTTCAAC CAGTACTTCG
3721 TCGGCAGCTT   CAACGGCACC CACTTCGAGG CCTTCGACAA CCAGTCCCGC GTGGTGGACT
3781 TCGGCAAGGA   CTACTACGCC CTGCAGACCT TCTTCAACAC CGACCCGACC TACGGGAGCG
3841 CCCTGGGCAT   CGCGTGGGCC TCCAACTGGG AGTACTCCGC CTTCGTGCCC ACCAACCCCT
3901 GGCGCTCCTC   CATGTCCCTC GTGCGCAAGT TCTCCCTCAA CACCGAGTAC CAGGCCAACC
3961 CGGAGACGGA   GCTGATCAAC CTGAAGGCCG AGCCGATCCT GAACATCAGC AACGCCGGCC
4021 CCTGGAGCCG   GTTCGCCACC AACACCACGT TGACGAAGGC CAACAGCTAC AACGTCGACC
4081 TGTCCAACAG   CACCGGCACC CTGGAGTTCG AGCTGGTGTA CGCCGTCAAC ACCACCCAGA
4141 CGATCTCCAA   GTCCGTGTTC GCGGACCTCT CCCTCTGGTT CAAGGGCCTG GAGGACCCCG
4201 AGGAGTACCT   CCGCATGGGC TTCGAGGTGT CCGCGTCCTC CTTCTTCCTG GACCGCGGGA
4261 ACAGCAAGGT   GAAGTTCGTG AAGGAGAACC CCTACTTCAC CAACCGCATG AGCGTGAACA
4321 ACCAGCCCTT   CAAGAGCGAG AACGACCTGT CCTACTACAA GGTGTACGGC TTGCTGGACC
4381 AGPJ\.CATCCT GGAGCTGTAC TTCAACGACG GCGACGTCGT GTCCACCAAC ACCTACTTCA
4441 TGACCACCGG   GAACGCCCTG GGCTCCGTGA ACATGACGAC GGGGGTGGAC AACCTGTTCT
4501 ACATCGACAA   GTTCCAGGTG CGCGAGGTCA AGTGACAATT GGCAGCAGCA GCTCGGATAG
4561 TATCGACACA   CTCTGGACGC TGGTCGTGTG ATGGACTGTT GCCGCCACAC TTGCTGCCTT
4621 GACCTGTGAA   TATCCCTGCC GCTTTTATCA AACAGCCTCA GTGTGTTTGA TCTTGTGTGT
4681 ACGCGCTTTT   GCGAGTTGCT AGCTGCTTGT GCTATTTGCG AATACCACCC CCAGCATCCC
4741 CTTCCCTCGT   TTCATATCGC TTGCATCCCA ACCGCAACTT ATCTACGCTG TCCTGCTATC
4801 CCTCAGCGCT   GCTCCTGCTC CTGCTCACTG CCCCTCGCAC AGCCTTGGTT TGGGCTCCGC
4861 CTGTATTCTC   CTGGTACTGC AACCTGTAAA CCAGCACTGC AATGCTGATG CACGGGAAGT
4921 AGTGGGATGG   GAACACAAAT GGAGGATCCC GCGTCTCGAA CAGAGCGCGC AGAGGAACGC
4981 TGPJ\.GGTCTC GCCTCTGTCG CACCTCAGCG CGGCATACAC CACAATAACC ACCTGACGAA
5041 TGCGCTTGGT   TCTTCGTCCA TTAGCGAAGC GTCCGGTTCA CACACGTGCC ACGTTGGCGA
5101 GGTGGCAGGT   GACAATGATC GGTGGAGCTG ATGGTCGAAA CGTTCACAGC CTAGGGATAT
5161 CGPJ\.TTCGGC CGACAGGACG CGCGTCAAAG GTGCTGGTCG TGTATGCCCT GGCCGGCAGG
5221 TCGTTGCTGC   TGCTGGTTAG TGATTCCGCA ACCCTGATTT TGGCGTCTTA TTTTGGCGTG
5281 GCPJ\.ACGCTG GCGCCCGCGA GCCGGGCCGG CGGCGATGCG GTGCCCCACG GCTGCCGGAA
5341 TCCAAGGGAG   GCAAGAGCGC CCGGGTCAGT TGAAGGGCTT TACGCGCAAG GTACAGCCGC
5401 TCCTGCAAGG   CTGCGTGGTG GAATTGGACG TGCAGGTCCT GCTGAAGTTC CTCCACCGCC
5461 TCACCAGCGG   ACAAAGCACC GGTGTATCAG GTCCGTGTCA TCCACTCTAA AGAACTCGAC
5521 TACGACCTAC   TGATGGCCCT AGATTCTTCA TCAAAAACGC CTGAGACACT TGCCCAGGAT
5581 TGPJ\.ACTCCC TGAAGGGACC ACCAGGGGCC CTGAGTTGTT CCTTCCCCCC GTGGCGAGCT
5641 GCCAGCCAGG   CTGTACCTGT GATCGAGGCT GGCGGGAAAA TAGGCTTCGT GTGCTCAGGT
5701 CATGGGAGGT   GCAGGACAGC TCATGAAACG CCAACAATCG CACAATTCAT GTCAAGCTAA
5761 TCAGCTATTT   CCTCTTCACG AGCTGTAATT GTCCCAAAAT TCTGGTCTAC CGGGGGTGAT
5821 CCTTCGTGTA   CGGGCCCTTC CCTCAACCCT AGGTATGCGC GCATGCGGTC GCCGCGCAAC
5881 TCGCGCGAGG   GCCGAGGGTT TGGGACGGGC CGTCCCGAAA TGCAGTTGCA CCCGGATGCG
5941 TGGCACCTTT   TTTGCGATAA TTTATGCAAT GGACTGCTCT GCAAAATTCT GGCTCTGTCG
6001 CCPJ\.CCCTAG GATCAGCGGC GTAGGATTTC GTAATCATTC GTCCTGATGG GGAGCTACCG
6061 ACTACCCTAA   TATCAGCCCG ACTGCCTGAC GCCAGCGTCC ACTTTTGTGC ACACATTCCA
6121 TTCGTGCCCA   AGACATTTCA TTGTGGTGCG AAGCGTCCCC AGTTACGCTC ACCTGTTTCC
6181 CGACCTCCTT   ACTGTTCTGT CGACAGAGCG GGCCCACAGG CCGGTCGCAG CCCATATGGC
6241 TTCCGCGGCA   TTCACCATGT CGGCGTGCCC CGCGATGACT GGCAGGGCCC CTGGGGCACG
6301 TCGCTCCGGA   CGGCCAGTCG CCACCCGCCT GAGGTACGTA TTCCAGTGCC TGGTGGCCAG
6361 CTGCATCGAC   CCCTGCGACC AGTACCGCAG CAGCGCCAGC CTGAGCTTCC TGGGCGACAA
6421 CGGCTTCGCC   AGCCTGTTCG GCAGCAAGCC CTTCATGAGC AACCGCGGCC ACCGCCGCCT
6481 GCGCCGCGCC   AGCCACAGCG GCGAGGCCAT GGCCGTGGCC CTGCAGCCCG CCCAGGAGGC
6541 CGGCACCAAG   AAGAAGCCCG TGATCAAGCA GCGCCGCGTG GTGGTGACCG GCATGGGCGT
                                  338

 6601 GGTGACCCCC CTGGGCCACG AGCCCGACGT GTTCTACAAC AACCTGCTGG ACGGCGTGAG
 6661 CGGCATCAGC GAGATCGAGA CCTTCGACTG CACCCAGTTC CCCACCCGCA TCGCCGGCGA
 6721 GATCAAGAGC TTCAGCACCG ACGGCTGGGT GGCCCCCAAG CTGAGCAAGC GCATGGACAA
 6781 GTTCATGCTG TACCTGCTGA CCGCCGGCAA GAAGGCCCTG GCCGACGGCG GCATCACCGA
 6841 CGAGGTGATG AAGGAGCTGG ACAAGCGCAA GTGCGGCGTG CTGATCGGCA GCGGCATGGG
 6901 CGGCATGAAG GTGTTCAACG ACGCCATCGA GGCCCTGCGC GTGAGCTACA AGAAGATGAA
 6961 CCCCTTCTGC GTGCCCTTCG CCACCACCAA CATGGGCAGC GCCATGCTGG CCATGGACCT
 7021 GGGCTGGATG GGCCCCAACT ACAGCATCAG CACCGCCTGC GCCACCAGCA ACTTCTGCAT
 7081 CCTGAACGCC GCCAACCACA TCATCCGCGG CGAGGCCGAC ATGATGCTGT GCGGCGGCAG
 7141 CGACGCCGTG ATCATCCCCA TCGGCCTGGG CGGCTTCGTG GCCTGCCGCG CCCTGAGCCA
 7201 GCGCAACAGC GACCCCACCA AGGCCAGCCG CCCCTGGGAC AGCAACCGCG ACGGCTTCGT
 7261 GATGGGCGAG GGCGCCGGCG TGCTGCTGCT GGAGGAGCTG GAGCACGCCA AGAAGCGCGG
 7321 CGCCACCATC TACGCCGAGT TCCTGGGCGG CAGCTTCACC TGCGACGCCT ACCACATGAC
 7381 CGAGCCCCAC CCCGAGGGCG CCGGCGTGAT CCTGTGCATC GAGAAGGCCC TGGCCCAGGC
 7441 CGGCGTGAGC AAGGAGGACG TGAACTACAT CAACGCCCAC GCCACCAGCA CCAGCGCCGG
 7501 CGACATCAAG GAGTACCAGG CCCTGGCCCG CTGCTTCGGC CAGAACAGCG AGCTGCGCGT
 7561 GAACAGCACC AAGAGCATGA TCGGCCACCT GCTGGGCGCC GCCGGCGGCG TGGAGGCCGT
 7621 GACCGTGGTG CAGGCCATCC GCACCGGCTG GATTCACCCC AACCTGAACC TGGAGGACCC
 7681 CGACAAGGCC GTGGACGCCA AGCTGCTGGT GGGCCCCAAG AAGGAGCGCC TGAACGTGAA
 7741 GGTGGGCCTG AGCAACAGCT TCGGCTTCGG CGGCCACAAC AGCAGCATCC TGTTCGCCCC
 7801 CTGCAACGTG TGAATGCATA CGGAGCGTCG TGCGGGAGGG AGTGTGCCGA GCGGGGAGTC
 7861 CCGGTCTGTG CGAGGCCCGG CAGCTGACGC TGGCGAGCCG TACGCCCCGA GGGTCCCCCT
 7921 CCCCTCCCCC CTCTTCCCCT TCCCTCTGAC GGCCGCGCCT GTTTTTGCAT GTTCAGCGAC
 7981 CTTAAGGATC TAAGTAAGAT TCGAAGCGCT CGACCGTGCC GGACGGACTG CAGCCCCATG
 8041 TCGTAGTGAC CGCCAATGTA AGTGGGCTGG CGTTTCCCTG TACGTGACTC AACGTCACTG
 8101 CACGCGCACC ACCCTCTCGA CCGGCAGGAC CAGGCATCGC GAGATACAGC GCGAGCCAGA
 8161 CACGGAGTGC CGAGCTATGC GCACGCTCCA ACTAGATATC GAATTCGGCC GACAGGACGC
 8221 GCGTCAAAGG TGCTGGTCGT GTATGCCCTG GCCGGCAGGT CGTTGCTGCT GCTGGTTAGT
 8281 GATTCCGCAA CCCTGATTTT GGCGTCTTAT TTTGGCGTGG CAAACGCTGG CGCCCGCGAG
 8341 CCGGGCCGGC GGCGATGCGG TGCCCCACGG CTGCCGGAAT CCAAGGGAGG CAAGAGCGCC
 8401 CGGGTCAGTT GAAGGGCTTT ACGCGCAAGG TACAGCCGCT CCTGCAAGGC TGCGTGGTGG
 8461 AATTGGACGT GCAGGTCCTG CTGAAGTTCC TCCACCGCCT CACCAGCGGA CAAAGCACCG
 8521 GTGTATCAGG TCCGTGTCAT CCACTCTAAA GAACTCGACT ACGACCTACT GATGGCCCTA
 8581 GATTCTTCAT CAAAAACGCC TGAGACACTT GCCCAGGATT GAAACTCCCT GAAGGGACCA
 8641 CCAGGGGCCC TGAGTTGTTC CTTCCCCCCG TGGCGAGCTG CCAGCCAGGC TGTACCTGTG
 8701 ATCGAGGCTG GCGGGAAAAT AGGCTTCGTG TGCTCAGGTC ATGGGAGGTG CAGGACAGCT
 8761 CATGAAACGC CAACAATCGC ACAATTCATG TCAAGCTAAT CAGCTATTTC CTCTTCACGA
 8821 GCTGTAATTG TCCCAAAATT CTGGTCTACC GGGGGTGATC CTTCGTGTAC GGGCCCTTCC
 8881 CTCAACCCTA GGTATGCGCG CATGCGGTCG CCGCGCAACT CGCGCGAGGG CCGAGGGTTT
 8941 GGGACGGGCC GTCCCGAAAT GCAGTTGCAC CCGGATGCGT GGCACCTTTT TTGCGATAAT
 9001 TTATGCAATG GACTGCTCTG CAAAATTCTG GCTCTGTCGC CAACCCTAGG ATCAGCGGCG
 9061 TAGGATTTCG TAATCATTCG TCCTGATGGG GAGCTACCGA CTACCCTAAT ATCAGCCCGA
 9121 CTGCCTGACG CCAGCGTCCA CTTTTGTGCA CACATTCCAT TCGTGCCCAA GACATTTCAT
 9181 TGTGGTGCGA AGCGTCCCCA GTTACGCTCA CCTGTTTCCC GACCTCCTTA CTGTTCTGTC
 9241 GACAGAGCGG GCCCACAGGC CGGTCGCAGC CACTAGTATG GCCACCGCAT CCACTTTCTC
 9301 GGCGTTCAAT GCCCGCTGCG GCGACCTGCG TCGCTCGGCG GGCTCCGGGC CCCGGCGCCC
 9361 AGCGAGGCCC CTCCCCGTGC GCGGGCGCGC CCCCAAGGCC AACGGCAGCG CCGTGAGCCT
 9421 GAAGTCCGGC AGCCTGAACA CCCTGGAGGA CCCCCCCAGC AGCCCCCCCC CCCGCACCTT
 9481 CCTGAACCAG CTGCCCGACT GGAGCCGCCT GCGCACCGCC ATCACCACCG TGTTCGTGGC
 9541 CGCCGAGAAG CAGTTCACCC GCCTGGACCG CAAGAGCAAG CGCCCCGACA TGCTGGTGGA
 9601 CTGGTTCGGC AGCGAGACCA TCGTGCAGGA CGGCCTGGTG TTCCGCGAGC GCTTCAGCAT
 9661 CCGCAGCTAC GAGATCGGCG CCGACCGCAC CGCCAGCATC GAGACCCTGA TGAACCACCT
 9721 GCAGGACACC AGCCTGAACC ACTGCAAGAG CGTGGGCCTG CTGAACGACG GCTTCGGCCG
 9781 CACCCCCGAG ATGTGCACCC GCGACCTGAT CTGGGTGCTG ACCAAGATGC AGATCGTGGT
 9841 GAACCGCTAC CCCACCTGGG GCGACACCGT GGAGATCAAC AGCTGGTTCA GCCAGAGCGG
 9901 CAAGATCGGC ATGGGCCGCG AGTGGCTGAT CAGCGACTGC AACACCGGCG AGATCCTGGT
 9961 GCGCGCCACC AGCGCCTGGG CCATGATGAA CCAGAAGACC CGCCGCTTCA GCAAGCTGCC
10021 CTGCGAGGTG CGCCAGGAGA TCGCCCCCCA CTTCGTGGAC GCCCCCCCCG TGATCGAGGA
10081 CAACGACCGC AAGCTGCACA AGTTCGACGT GAAGACCGGC GACAGCATCT GCAAGGGCCT
10141 GACCCCCGGC TGGAACGACT TCGACGTGAA CCAGCACGTG AGCAACGTGA AGTACATCGG
10201 CTGGATTCTG GAGAGCATGC CCACCGAGGT GCTGGAGACC CAGGAGCTGT GCAGCCTGAC
                                 339

    10261 CCTGGAGTAC  CGCCGCGAGT GCGGCCGCGA GAGCGTGGTG GAGAGCGTGA CCAGCATGAA
    10321 CCCCAGCAAG  GTGGGCGACC GCAGCCAGTA CCAGCACCTG CTGCGCCTGG AGGACGGCGC
    10381 CGACATCATG  AAGGGCCGCA CCGAGTGGCG CCCCAAGAAC GCCGGCACCA ACCGCGCCAT
    10441 CAGCACCTGA  TTAATTAACT CGAGGCAGCA GCAGCTCGGA TAGTATCGAC ACACTCTGGA
    10501 CGCTGGTCGT  GTGATGGACT GTTGCCGCCA CACTTGCTGC CTTGACCTGT GAATATCCCT
    10561 GCCGCTTTTA  TCAAACAGCC TCAGTGTGTT TGATCTTGTG TGTACGCGCT TTTGCGAGTT
    10621 GCTAGCTGCT  TGTGCTATTT GCGAATACCA CCCCCAGCAT CCCCTTCCCT CGTTTCATAT
    10681 CGCTTGCATC  CCAACCGCAA CTTATCTACG CTGTCCTGCT ATCCCTCAGC GCTGCTCCTG
    10741 CTCCTGCTCA  CTGCCCCTCG CACAGCCTTG GTTTGGGCTC CGCCTGTATT CTCCTGGTAC
    10801 TGCAACCTGT  AAACCAGCAC TGCAATGCTG ATGCACGGGA AGTAGTGGGA TGGGAACACA
    10861 AATGGAAAGC  TTGAGCTCTT GTTTTCCAGA AGGAGTTGCT CCTTGAGCCT TTCATTCTCA
    10921 GCCTCGATAA  CCTCCAAAGC CGCTCTAATT GTGGAGGGGG TTCGAATTTA AAAGCTTGGA
    10981 ATGTTGGTTC  GTGCGTCTGG AACAAGCCCA GACTTGTTGC TCACTGGGAA AAGGACCATC
    11041 AGCTCCAAAA  AACTTGCCGC TCAAACCGCG TACCTCTGCT TTCGCGCAAT CTGCCCTGTT
    11101 GAP.ATCGCCA CCACATTCAT ATTGTGACGC TTGAGCAGTC TGTAATTGCC TCAGAATGTG
    11161 GAATCATCTG  CCCCCTGTGC GAGCCCATGC CAGGCATGTC GCGGGCGAGG ACACCCGCCA
    11221 CTCGTACAGC  AGACCATTAT GCTACCTCAC AATAGTTCAT AACAGTGACC ATATTTCTCG
    11281 AAGCTCCCCA  ACGAGCACCT CCATGCTCTG AGTGGCCACC CCCCGGCCCT GGTGCTTGCG
    11341 GAGGGCAGGT  CAACCGGCAT GGGGCTACCG AAATCCCCGA CCGGATCCCA CCACCCCCGC
    11401 GATGGGAAGA  ATCTCTCCCC GGGATGTGGG CCCACCACCA GCACAACCTG CTGGCCCAGG
    11461 CGAGCGTCAA  ACCATACCAC ACAAATATCC TTGGCATCGG CCCTGAATTC CTTCTGCCGC
    11521 TCTGCTACCC  GGTGCTTCTG TCCGAAGCAG GGGTTGCTAG GGATCGCTCC GAGTCCGCAA
    11581 ACCCTTGTCG  CGTGGCGGGG CTTGTTCGAG CTTGAAGAGC CTCTAGAGTC GACCTGCAGG
    11641 CATGCAAGCT  TGGCGTAATC ATGGTCATAG CTGTTTCCTG TGTGAAATTG TTATCCGCTC
    11701 ACP.ATTCCAC ACAACATACG AGCCGGAAGC ATAAAGTGTA AAGCCTGGGG TGCCTAATGA
    11761 GTGAGCTAAC  TCACATTAAT TGCGTTGCGC TCACTGCCCG CTTTCCAGTC GGGAAACCTG
    11821 TCGTGCCAGC  TGCATTAATG AATCGGCCAA CGCGCGGGGA GAGGCGGTTT GCGTATTGGG
    11881 CGCTCTTCCG  CTTCCTCGCT CACTGACTCG CTGCGCTCGG TCGTTCGGCT GCGGCGAGCG
    11941 GTATCAGCTC  ACTCAAAGGC GGTAATACGG TTATCCACAG AATCAGGGGA TAACGCAGGA
    12001 AAGAACATGT  GAGCAAAAGG CCAGCAAAAG GCCAGGAACC GTAAAAAGGC CGCGTTGCTG
    12061 GCGTTTTTCC  ATAGGCTCCG CCCCCCTGAC GAGCATCACA AAAATCGACG CTCAAGTCAG
    12121 AGGTGGCGAA  ACCCGACAGG ACTATAAAGA TACCAGGCGT TTCCCCCTGG AAGCTCCCTC
    12181 GTGCGCTCTC  CTGTTCCGAC CCTGCCGCTT ACCGGATACC TGTCCGCCTT TCTCCCTTCG
    12241 GGP.AGCGTGG CGCTTTCTCA TAGCTCACGC TGTAGGTATC TCAGTTCGGT GTAGGTCGTT
    12301 CGCTCCAAGC  TGGGCTGTGT GCACGAACCC CCCGTTCAGC CCGACCGCTG CGCCTTATCC
    12361 GGTAACTATC  GTCTTGAGTC CAACCCGGTA AGACACGACT TATCGC
SEQ ID NO: 233
pSZ1500
        1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
      841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
      901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
      961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
     1021 CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
     1081 TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
     1141 GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
                                      340

1201 TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
1261 GGP.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
1321 ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
1381 CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
1441 TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
1501 GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
1561 CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
1621 TTP.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
1681 CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
1741 ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
1801 GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
1861 AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCGGGCTGG TCTGAATCCT TCAGGCGGGT
1921 GTTACCCGAG  AAAGAAAGGG TGCCGATTTC AAAGCAGACC CATGTGCCGG GCCCTGTGGC
1981 CTGTGTTGGC  GCCTATGTAG TCACCCCCCC TCACCCAATT GTCGCCAGTT TGCGCACTCC
2041 ATP.AACTCAA AACAGCAGCT TCTGAGCTGC GCTGTTCAAG AACACCTCTG GGGTTTGCTC
2101 ACCCGCGAGG  TCGACGCCCA GCATGGCTAT CAAGACGAAC AGGCAGCCTG TGGAGAAGCC
2161 TCCGTTCACG  ATCGGGACGC TGCGCAAGGC CATCCCCGCG CACTGTTTCG AGCGCTCGGC
2221 GCTTCGTAGC  AGCATGTACC TGGCCTTTGA CATCGCGGTC ATGTCCCTGC TCTACGTCGC
2281 GTCGACGTAC  ATCGACCCTG CACCGGTGCC TACGTGGGTC AAGTACGGCA TCATGTGGCC
2341 GCTCTACTGG  TTCTTCCAGG TGTGTTTGAG GGTTTTGGTT GCCCGTATTG AGGTCCTGGT
2401 GGCGCGCATG  GAGGAGAAGG CGCCTGTCCC GCTGACCCCC CCGGCTACCC TCCCGGCACC
2461 TTCCAGGGCG  CCTTCGGCAC GGGTGTCTGG GTGTGCGCGC ACGAGTGCGG CCACCAGGCC
2521 TTTTCCTCCA  GCCAGGCCAT CAACGACGGC GTGGGCCTGG TGTTCCACAG CCTGCTGCTG
2581 GTGCCCTACT  ACTCCTGGAA GCACTCGCAC CGGGTACCCT TTCTTGCGCT ATGACACTTC
2641 CAGCAAAAGG  TAGGGCGGGC TGCGAGACGG CTTCCCGGCG CTGCATGCAA CACCGATGAT
2701 GCTTCGACCC  CCCGAAGCTC CTTCGGGGCT GCATGGGCGC TCCGATGCCG CTCCAGGGCG
2761 AGCGCTGTTT  AAATAGCCAG GCCCCCGATT GCAAAGACAT TATAGCGAGC TACCAAAGCC
2821 ATATTCAAAC  ACCTAGATCA CTACCACTTC TACACAGGCC ACTCGAGCTT GTGATCGCAC
2881 TCCGCTAAGG  GGGCGCCTCT TCCTCTTCGT TTCAGTCACA ACCCGCAAAC TCTAGAATAT
2941 CAATGCTGCT  GCAGGCCTTC CTGTTCCTGC TGGCCGGCTT CGCCGCCAAG ATCAGCGCCT
3001 CCATGACGAA  CGAGACGTCC GACCGCCCCC TGGTGCACTT CACCCCCAAC AAGGGCTGGA
3061 TGP.ACGACCC CAACGGCCTG TGGTACGACG AGAAGGACGC CAAGTGGCAC CTGTACTTCC
3121 AGTACAACCC  GAACGACACC GTCTGGGGGA CGCCCTTGTT CTGGGGCCAC GCCACGTCCG
3181 ACGACCTGAC  CAACTGGGAG GACCAGCCCA TCGCCATCGC CCCGAAGCGC AACGACTCCG
3241 GCGCCTTCTC  CGGCTCCATG GTGGTGGACT ACAACAACAC CTCCGGCTTC TTCAACGACA
3301 CCATCGACCC  GCGCCAGCGC TGCGTGGCCA TCTGGACCTA CAACACCCCG GAGTCCGAGG
3361 AGCAGTACAT  CTCCTACAGC CTGGACGGCG GCTACACCTT CACCGAGTAC CAGAAGAACC
3421 CCGTGCTGGC  CGCCAACTCC ACCCAGTTCC GCGACCCGAA GGTCTTCTGG TACGAGCCCT
3481 CCCAGAAGTG  GATCATGACC GCGGCCAAGT CCCAGGACTA CAAGATCGAG ATCTACTCCT
3541 CCGACGACCT  GAAGTCCTGG AAGCTGGAGT CCGCGTTCGC CAACGAGGGC TTCCTCGGCT
3601 ACCAGTACGA  GTGCCCCGGC CTGATCGAGG TCCCCACCGA GCAGGACCCC AGCAAGTCCT
3661 ACTGGGTGAT  GTTCATCTCC ATCAACCCCG GCGCCCCGGC CGGCGGCTCC TTCAACCAGT
3721 ACTTCGTCGG  CAGCTTCAAC GGCACCCACT TCGAGGCCTT CGACAACCAG TCCCGCGTGG
3781 TGGACTTCGG  CAAGGACTAC TACGCCCTGC AGACCTTCTT CAACACCGAC CCGACCTACG
3841 GGAGCGCCCT  GGGCATCGCG TGGGCCTCCA ACTGGGAGTA CTCCGCCTTC GTGCCCACCA
3901 ACCCCTGGCG  CTCCTCCATG TCCCTCGTGC GCAAGTTCTC CCTCAACACC GAGTACCAGG
3961 CCP.ACCCGGA GACGGAGCTG ATCAACCTGA AGGCCGAGCC GATCCTGAAC ATCAGCAACG
4021 CCGGCCCCTG  GAGCCGGTTC GCCACCAACA CCACGTTGAC GAAGGCCAAC AGCTACAACG
4081 TCGACCTGTC  CAACAGCACC GGCACCCTGG AGTTCGAGCT GGTGTACGCC GTCAACACCA
4141 CCCAGACGAT  CTCCAAGTCC GTGTTCGCGG ACCTCTCCCT CTGGTTCAAG GGCCTGGAGG
4201 ACCCCGAGGA  GTACCTCCGC ATGGGCTTCG AGGTGTCCGC GTCCTCCTTC TTCCTGGACC
4261 GCGGGAACAG  CAAGGTGAAG TTCGTGAAGG AGAACCCCTA CTTCACCAAC CGCATGAGCG
4321 TGP.ACAACCA GCCCTTCAAG AGCGAGAACG ACCTGTCCTA CTACAAGGTG TACGGCTTGC
4381 TGGACCAGAA  CATCCTGGAG CTGTACTTCA ACGACGGCGA CGTCGTGTCC ACCAACACCT
4441 ACTTCATGAC  CACCGGGAAC GCCCTGGGCT CCGTGAACAT GACGACGGGG GTGGACAACC
4501 TGTTCTACAT  CGACAAGTTC CAGGTGCGCG AGGTCAAGTG ACAATTGGCA GCAGCAGCTC
4561 GGATAGTATC  GACACACTCT GGACGCTGGT CGTGTGATGG ACTGTTGCCG CCACACTTGC
4621 TGCCTTGACC  TGTGAATATC CCTGCCGCTT TTATCAAACA GCCTCAGTGT GTTTGATCTT
4681 GTGTGTACGC  GCTTTTGCGA GTTGCTAGCT GCTTGTGCTA TTTGCGAATA CCACCCCCAG
4741 CATCCCCTTC  CCTCGTTTCA TATCGCTTGC ATCCCAACCG CAACTTATCT ACGCTGTCCT
4801 GCTATCCCTC  AGCGCTGCTC CTGCTCCTGC TCACTGCCCC TCGCACAGCC TTGGTTTGGG
                                 341

4861 CTCCGCCTGT ATTCTCCTGG  TACTGCAACC TGTAAACCAG CACTGCAATG CTGATGCACG
4921 GG~.AGTAGTG GGATGGGAAC ACAAATGGAG GATCCCGCGT CTCGAACAGA GCGCGCAGAG
4981 GAACGCTGAA GGTCTCGCCT  CTGTCGCACC TCAGCGCGGC ATACACCACA ATAACCACCT
5041 GACGAATGCG CTTGGTTCTT  CGTCCATTAG CGAAGCGTCC GGTTCACACA CGTGCCACGT
5101 TGGCGAGGTG GCAGGTGACA  ATGATCGGTG GAGCTGATGG TCGAAACGTT CACAGCCTAG
5161 GGATATCGAA TTCGGCCGAC  AGGACGCGCG TCAAAGGTGC TGGTCGTGTA TGCCCTGGCC
5221 GGCAGGTCGT TGCTGCTGCT  GGTTAGTGAT TCCGCAACCC TGATTTTGGC GTCTTATTTT
5281 GGCGTGGCAA ACGCTGGCGC  CCGCGAGCCG GGCCGGCGGC GATGCGGTGC CCCACGGCTG
5341 CCGGAATCCA AGGGAGGCAA  GAGCGCCCGG GTCAGTTGAA GGGCTTTACG CGCAAGGTAC
5401 AGCCGCTCCT GCAAGGCTGC  GTGGTGGAAT TGGACGTGCA GGTCCTGCTG AAGTTCCTCC
5461 ACCGCCTCAC CAGCGGACAA  AGCACCGGTG TATCAGGTCC GTGTCATCCA CTCTAAAGAA
5521 CTCGACTACG ACCTACTGAT  GGCCCTAGAT TCTTCATCAA AAACGCCTGA GACACTTGCC
5581 CAGGATTGAA ACTCCCTGAA  GGGACCACCA GGGGCCCTGA GTTGTTCCTT CCCCCCGTGG
5641 CGAGCTGCCA GCCAGGCTGT  ACCTGTGATC GAGGCTGGCG GGAAAATAGG CTTCGTGTGC
5701 TCAGGTCATG GGAGGTGCAG  GACAGCTCAT GAAACGCCAA CAATCGCACA ATTCATGTCA
5761 AGCTAATCAG CTATTTCCTC  TTCACGAGCT GTAATTGTCC CAAAATTCTG GTCTACCGGG
5821 GGTGATCCTT CGTGTACGGG  CCCTTCCCTC AACCCTAGGT ATGCGCGCAT GCGGTCGCCG
5881 CGCAACTCGC GCGAGGGCCG  AGGGTTTGGG ACGGGCCGTC CCGAAATGCA GTTGCACCCG
5941 GATGCGTGGC ACCTTTTTTG  CGATAATTTA TGCAATGGAC TGCTCTGCAA AATTCTGGCT
6001 CTGTCGCCAA CCCTAGGATC  AGCGGCGTAG GATTTCGTAA TCATTCGTCC TGATGGGGAG
6061 CTACCGACTA CCCTAATATC  AGCCCGACTG CCTGACGCCA GCGTCCACTT TTGTGCACAC
6121 ATTCCATTCG TGCCCAAGAC  ATTTCATTGT GGTGCGAAGC GTCCCCAGTT ACGCTCACCT
6181 GTTTCCCGAC CTCCTTACTG  TTCTGTCGAC AGAGCGGGCC CACAGGCCGG TCGCAGCCAC
6241 TAGTATGGCC ACCGCATCCA  CTTTCTCGGC GTTCAATGCC CGCTGCGGCG ACCTGCGTCG
6301 CTCGGCGGGC TCCGGGCCCC  GGCGCCCAGC GAGGCCCCTC CCCGTGCGCG GGCGCGCCGC
6361 CACCGGCGAG CAGCCCTCCG  GCGTGGCCTC CCTGCGCGAG GCCGACAAGG AGAAGTCCCT
6421 GGGCAACCGC CTGCGCCTGG  GCTCCCTGAC CGAGGACGGC CTGTCCTACA AGGAGAAGTT
6481 CGTGATCCGC TGCTACGAGG  TGGGCATCAA CAAGACCGCC ACCATCGAGA CCATCGCCAA
6541 CCTGCTGCAG GAGGTGGGCG  GCAACCACGC CCAGGGCGTG GGCTTCTCCA CCGACGGCTT
6601 CGCCACCACC ACCACCATGC  GCAAGCTGCA CCTGATCTGG GTGACCGCCC GCATGCACAT
6661 CGAGATCTAC CGCTACCCCG  CCTGGTCCGA CGTGATCGAG ATCGAGACCT GGGTGCAGGG
6721 CGAGGGCAAG GTGGGCACCC  GCCGCGACTG GATCCTGAAG GACTACGCCA ACGGCGAGGT
6781 GATCGGCCGC GCCACCTCCA  AGTGGGTGAT GATGAACGAG GACACCCGCC GCCTGCAGAA
6841 GGTGTCCGAC GACGTGCGCG  AGGAGTACCT GGTGTTCTGC CCCCGCACCC TGCGCCTGGC
6901 CTTCCCCGAG GAGAACAACA  ACTCCATGAA GAAGATCCCC AAGCTGGAGG ACCCCGCCGA
6961 GTACTCCCGC CTGGGCCTGG  TGCCCCGCCG CTCCGACCTG GACATGAACA AGCACGTGAA
7021 CAACGTGACC TACATCGGCT  GGGCCCTGGA GTCCATCCCC CCCGAGATCA TCGACACCCA
7081 CGAGCTGCAG GCCATCACCC  TGGACTACCG CCGCGAGTGC CAGCGCGACG ACATCGTGGA
7141 CTCCCTGACC TCCCGCGAGC  CCCTGGGCAA CGCCGCCGGC GTGAAGTTCA AGGAGATCAA
7201 CGGCTCCGTG TCCCCCAAGA  AGGACGAGCA GGACCTGTCC CGCTTCATGC ACCTGCTGCG
7261 CTCCGCCGGC TCCGGCCTGG  AGATCAACCG CTGCCGCACC GAGTGGCGCA AGAAGCCCGC
7321 CAAGCGCATG GACTACAAGG  ACCACGACGG CGACTACAAG GACCACGACA TCGACTACAA
7381 GGACGACGAC GACAAGTGAA  TCGATAGATC TCTTAAGGCA GCAGCAGCTC GGATAGTATC
7441 GACACACTCT GGACGCTGGT  CGTGTGATGG ACTGTTGCCG CCACACTTGC TGCCTTGACC
7501 TGTGAATATC CCTGCCGCTT  TTATCAAACA GCCTCAGTGT GTTTGATCTT GTGTGTACGC
7561 GCTTTTGCGA GTTGCTAGCT  GCTTGTGCTA TTTGCGAATA CCACCCCCAG CATCCCCTTC
7621 CCTCGTTTCA TATCGCTTGC  ATCCCAACCG CAACTTATCT ACGCTGTCCT GCTATCCCTC
7681 AGCGCTGCTC CTGCTCCTGC  TCACTGCCCC TCGCACAGCC TTGGTTTGGG CTCCGCCTGT
7741 ATTCTCCTGG TACTGCAACC  TGTAAACCAG CACTGCAATG CTGATGCACG GGAAGTAGTG
7801 GGATGGGAAC ACAAATGGAA  AGCTTAATTA AGAGCTCCCG CCACCACTCC AACACGGGGT
7861 GCCTGGACAA GGACGAGGTG  TTTGTGCCGC CGCACCGCGC AGTGGCGCAC GAGGGCCTGG
7921 AGTGGGAGGA GTGGCTGCCC  ATCCGCATGG GCAAGGTGCT GGTCACCCTG ACCCTGGGCT
7981 GGCCGCTGTA CCTCATGTTC  AACGTCGCCT CGCGGCCGTA CCCGCGCTTC GCCAACCACT
8041 TTGACCCGTG GTCGCCCATC  TTCAGCAAGC GCGAGCGCAT CGAGGTGGTC ATCTCCGACC
8101 TGGCGCTGGT GGCGGTGCTC  AGCGGGCTCA GCGTGCTGGG CCGCACCATG GGCTGGGCCT
8161 GGCTGGTCAA GACCTACGTG  GTGCCCTACC TGATCGTGAA CATGTGGCTC GTGCTCATCA
8221 CGCTGCTCCA GCACACGCAC  CCGGCGCTGC CGCACTACTT CGAGAAGGAC TGGGACTGGC
8281 TGCGCGGCGC CATGGCCACC  GTGGACCGCT CCATGGGCCC GCCCTTCATG GACAACATCC
8341 TGCACCACAT CTCCGACACC  CACGTGCTGC ACCACCTCTT CAGCACCATC CCGCACTACC
8401 ACGCCGAGGA GGCCTCCGCC  GCCATCAGGC CCATCCTGGG CAAGTACTAC CAGTCCGACA
8461 GCCGCTGGGT CGGCCGCGCC  CTGTGGGAGG ACTGGCGCGA CTGCCGCTAC GTCGTCCCGG
                                 342

     8521 ACGCGCCCGA  GGACGACTCC GCGCTCTGGT TCCACAAGTG AGTGAGTGAG AAGAGCCTCT
     8581 AGAGTCGACC  TGCAGGCATG CAAGCTTGGC GTAATCATGG TCATAGCTGT TTCCTGTGTG
     8641 AAATTGTTAT  CCGCTCACAA TTCCACACAA CATACGAGCC GGAAGCATAA AGTGTAAAGC
     8701 CTGGGGTGCC  TAATGAGTGA GCTAACTCAC ATTAATTGCG TTGCGCTCAC TGCCCGCTTT
     8761 CCAGTCGGGA  AACCTGTCGT GCCAGCTGCA TTAATGAATC GGCCAACGCG CGGGGAGAGG
     8821 CGGTTTGCGT  ATTGGGCGCT CTTCCGCTTC CTCGCTCACT GACTCGCTGC GCTCGGTCGT
     8881 TCGGCTGCGG  CGAGCGGTAT CAGCTCACTC AAAGGCGGTA ATACGGTTAT CCACAGAATC
     8941 AGGGGATAAC  GCAGGAAAGA ACATGTGAGC AAAAGGCCAG CAAAAGGCCA GGAACCGTAA
     9001 AAAGGCCGCG  TTGCTGGCGT TTTTCCATAG GCTCCGCCCC CCTGACGAGC ATCACAAAAA
     9061 TCGACGCTCA  AGTCAGAGGT GGCGAAACCC GACAGGACTA TAAAGATACC AGGCGTTTCC
     9121 CCCTGGAAGC  TCCCTCGTGC GCTCTCCTGT TCCGACCCTG CCGCTTACCG GATACCTGTC
     9181 CGCCTTTCTC  CCTTCGGGAA GCGTGGCGCT TTCTCATAGC TCACGCTGTA GGTATCTCAG
     9241 TTCGGTGTAG  GTCGTTCGCT CCAAGCTGGG CTGTGTGCAC GAACCCCCCG TTCAGCCCGA
     9301 CCGCTGCGCC  TTATCCGGTA ACTATCGTCT TGAGTCCAAC CCGGTAAGAC ACGACTTATC
     9361 GC
SEQ ID NO: 234
pSZ1501_FADc-inv
        1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
      841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
      901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
      961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
     1021 CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
     1081 TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
     1141 GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
     1201 TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
     1261 GGP.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
     1321 ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
     1381 CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
     1441 TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
     1501 GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
     1561 CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
     1621 TTP.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
     1681 CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
     1741 ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
     1801 GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
     1861 AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCGGGCTGG TCTGAATCCT TCAGGCGGGT
     1921 GTTACCCGAG  AAAGAAAGGG TGCCGATTTC AAAGCAGACC CATGTGCCGG GCCCTGTGGC
     1981 CTGTGTTGGC  GCCTATGTAG TCACCCCCCC TCACCCAATT GTCGCCAGTT TGCGCACTCC
     2041 ATP.AACTCAA AACAGCAGCT TCTGAGCTGC GCTGTTCAAG AACACCTCTG GGGTTTGCTC
     2101 ACCCGCGAGG  TCGACGCCCA GCATGGCTAT CAAGACGAAC AGGCAGCCTG TGGAGAAGCC
     2161 TCCGTTCACG  ATCGGGACGC TGCGCAAGGC CATCCCCGCG CACTGTTTCG AGCGCTCGGC
     2221 GCTTCGTAGC  AGCATGTACC TGGCCTTTGA CATCGCGGTC ATGTCCCTGC TCTACGTCGC
     2281 GTCGACGTAC  ATCGACCCTG CACCGGTGCC TACGTGGGTC AAGTACGGCA TCATGTGGCC
     2341 GCTCTACTGG  TTCTTCCAGG TGTGTTTGAG GGTTTTGGTT GCCCGTATTG AGGTCCTGGT
     2401 GGCGCGCATG  GAGGAGAAGG CGCCTGTCCC GCTGACCCCC CCGGCTACCC TCCCGGCACC
                                      343

2461 TTCCAGGGCG  CCTTCGGCAC GGGTGTCTGG GTGTGCGCGC ACGAGTGCGG CCACCAGGCC
2521 TTTTCCTCCA  GCCAGGCCAT CAACGACGGC GTGGGCCTGG TGTTCCACAG CCTGCTGCTG
2581 GTGCCCTACT  ACTCCTGGAA GCACTCGCAC CGGGTACCCT TTCTTGCGCT ATGACACTTC
2641 CAGCAAAAGG  TAGGGCGGGC TGCGAGACGG CTTCCCGGCG CTGCATGCAA CACCGATGAT
2701 GCTTCGACCC  CCCGAAGCTC CTTCGGGGCT GCATGGGCGC TCCGATGCCG CTCCAGGGCG
2761 AGCGCTGTTT  AAATAGCCAG GCCCCCGATT GCAAAGACAT TATAGCGAGC TACCAAAGCC
2821 ATATTCAAAC  ACCTAGATCA CTACCACTTC TACACAGGCC ACTCGAGCTT GTGATCGCAC
2881 TCCGCTAAGG  GGGCGCCTCT TCCTCTTCGT TTCAGTCACA ACCCGCAAAC TCTAGAATAT
2941 CAATGCTGCT  GCAGGCCTTC CTGTTCCTGC TGGCCGGCTT CGCCGCCAAG ATCAGCGCCT
3001 CCATGACGAA  CGAGACGTCC GACCGCCCCC TGGTGCACTT CACCCCCAAC AAGGGCTGGA
3061 TGP.ACGACCC CAACGGCCTG TGGTACGACG AGAAGGACGC CAAGTGGCAC CTGTACTTCC
3121 AGTACAACCC  GAACGACACC GTCTGGGGGA CGCCCTTGTT CTGGGGCCAC GCCACGTCCG
3181 ACGACCTGAC  CAACTGGGAG GACCAGCCCA TCGCCATCGC CCCGAAGCGC AACGACTCCG
3241 GCGCCTTCTC  CGGCTCCATG GTGGTGGACT ACAACAACAC CTCCGGCTTC TTCAACGACA
3301 CCATCGACCC  GCGCCAGCGC TGCGTGGCCA TCTGGACCTA CAACACCCCG GAGTCCGAGG
3361 AGCAGTACAT  CTCCTACAGC CTGGACGGCG GCTACACCTT CACCGAGTAC CAGAAGAACC
3421 CCGTGCTGGC  CGCCAACTCC ACCCAGTTCC GCGACCCGAA GGTCTTCTGG TACGAGCCCT
3481 CCCAGAAGTG  GATCATGACC GCGGCCAAGT CCCAGGACTA CAAGATCGAG ATCTACTCCT
3541 CCGACGACCT  GAAGTCCTGG AAGCTGGAGT CCGCGTTCGC CAACGAGGGC TTCCTCGGCT
3601 ACCAGTACGA  GTGCCCCGGC CTGATCGAGG TCCCCACCGA GCAGGACCCC AGCAAGTCCT
3661 ACTGGGTGAT  GTTCATCTCC ATCAACCCCG GCGCCCCGGC CGGCGGCTCC TTCAACCAGT
3721 ACTTCGTCGG  CAGCTTCAAC GGCACCCACT TCGAGGCCTT CGACAACCAG TCCCGCGTGG
3781 TGGACTTCGG  CAAGGACTAC TACGCCCTGC AGACCTTCTT CAACACCGAC CCGACCTACG
3841 GGAGCGCCCT  GGGCATCGCG TGGGCCTCCA ACTGGGAGTA CTCCGCCTTC GTGCCCACCA
3901 ACCCCTGGCG  CTCCTCCATG TCCCTCGTGC GCAAGTTCTC CCTCAACACC GAGTACCAGG
3961 CCP.ACCCGGA GACGGAGCTG ATCAACCTGA AGGCCGAGCC GATCCTGAAC ATCAGCAACG
4021 CCGGCCCCTG  GAGCCGGTTC GCCACCAACA CCACGTTGAC GAAGGCCAAC AGCTACAACG
4081 TCGACCTGTC  CAACAGCACC GGCACCCTGG AGTTCGAGCT GGTGTACGCC GTCAACACCA
4141 CCCAGACGAT  CTCCAAGTCC GTGTTCGCGG ACCTCTCCCT CTGGTTCAAG GGCCTGGAGG
4201 ACCCCGAGGA  GTACCTCCGC ATGGGCTTCG AGGTGTCCGC GTCCTCCTTC TTCCTGGACC
4261 GCGGGAACAG  CAAGGTGAAG TTCGTGAAGG AGAACCCCTA CTTCACCAAC CGCATGAGCG
4321 TGP.ACAACCA GCCCTTCAAG AGCGAGAACG ACCTGTCCTA CTACAAGGTG TACGGCTTGC
4381 TGGACCAGAA  CATCCTGGAG CTGTACTTCA ACGACGGCGA CGTCGTGTCC ACCAACACCT
4441 ACTTCATGAC  CACCGGGAAC GCCCTGGGCT CCGTGAACAT GACGACGGGG GTGGACAACC
4501 TGTTCTACAT  CGACAAGTTC CAGGTGCGCG AGGTCAAGTG ACAATTGGCA GCAGCAGCTC
4561 GGATAGTATC  GACACACTCT GGACGCTGGT CGTGTGATGG ACTGTTGCCG CCACACTTGC
4621 TGCCTTGACC  TGTGAATATC CCTGCCGCTT TTATCAAACA GCCTCAGTGT GTTTGATCTT
4681 GTGTGTACGC  GCTTTTGCGA GTTGCTAGCT GCTTGTGCTA TTTGCGAATA CCACCCCCAG
4741 CATCCCCTTC  CCTCGTTTCA TATCGCTTGC ATCCCAACCG CAACTTATCT ACGCTGTCCT
4801 GCTATCCCTC  AGCGCTGCTC CTGCTCCTGC TCACTGCCCC TCGCACAGCC TTGGTTTGGG
4861 CTCCGCCTGT  ATTCTCCTGG TACTGCAACC TGTAAACCAG CACTGCAATG CTGATGCACG
4921 GGP.AGTAGTG GGATGGGAAC ACAAATGGAG GATCCCGCGT CTCGAACAGA GCGCGCAGAG
4981 GAACGCTGAA  GGTCTCGCCT CTGTCGCACC TCAGCGCGGC ATACACCACA ATAACCACCT
5041 GACGAATGCG  CTTGGTTCTT CGTCCATTAG CGAAGCGTCC GGTTCACACA CGTGCCACGT
5101 TGGCGAGGTG  GCAGGTGACA ATGATCGGTG GAGCTGATGG TCGAAACGTT CACAGCCTAG
5161 GGATATCGAA  TTCCTTTCTT GCGCTATGAC ACTTCCAGCA AAAGGTAGGG CGGGCTGCGA
5221 GACGGCTTCC  CGGCGCTGCA TGCAACACCG ATGATGCTTC GACCCCCCGA AGCTCCTTCG
5281 GGGCTGCATG  GGCGCTCCGA TGCCGCTCCA GGGCGAGCGC TGTTTAAATA GCCAGGCCCC
5341 CGATTGCAAA  GACATTATAG CGAGCTACCA AAGCCATATT CAAACACCTA GATCACTACC
5401 ACTTCTACAC  AGGCCACTCG AGCTTGTGAT CGCACTCCGC TAAGGGGGCG CCTCTTCCTC
5461 TTCGTTTCAG  TCACAACCCG CAAACACTAG TATGGCCACC GCATCCACTT TCTCGGCGTT
5521 CAATGCCCGC  TGCGGCGACC TGCGTCGCTC GGCGGGCTCC GGGCCCCGGC GCCCAGCGAG
5581 GCCCCTCCCC  GTGCGCGGGC GCGCCGCCAC CGGCGAGCAG CCCTCCGGCG TGGCCTCCCT
5641 GCGCGAGGCC  GACAAGGAGA AGTCCCTGGG CAACCGCCTG CGCCTGGGCT CCCTGACCGA
5701 GGACGGCCTG  TCCTACAAGG AGAAGTTCGT GATCCGCTGC TACGAGGTGG GCATCAACAA
5761 GACCGCCACC  ATCGAGACCA TCGCCAACCT GCTGCAGGAG GTGGGCGGCA ACCACGCCCA
5821 GGGCGTGGGC  TTCTCCACCG ACGGCTTCGC CACCACCACC ACCATGCGCA AGCTGCACCT
5881 GATCTGGGTG  ACCGCCCGCA TGCACATCGA GATCTACCGC TACCCCGCCT GGTCCGACGT
5941 GATCGAGATC  GAGACCTGGG TGCAGGGCGA GGGCAAGGTG GGCACCCGCC GCGACTGGAT
6001 CCTGAAGGAC  TACGCCAACG GCGAGGTGAT CGGCCGCGCC ACCTCCAAGT GGGTGATGAT
6061 GAACGAGGAC  ACCCGCCGCC TGCAGAAGGT GTCCGACGAC GTGCGCGAGG AGTACCTGGT
                                 344

     6121 GTTCTGCCCC  CGCACCCTGC GCCTGGCCTT CCCCGAGGAG AACAACAACT CCATGAAGAA
     6181 GATCCCCAAG  CTGGAGGACC CCGCCGAGTA CTCCCGCCTG GGCCTGGTGC CCCGCCGCTC
     6241 CGACCTGGAC  ATGAACAAGC ACGTGAACAA CGTGACCTAC ATCGGCTGGG CCCTGGAGTC
     6301 CATCCCCCCC  GAGATCATCG ACACCCACGA GCTGCAGGCC ATCACCCTGG ACTACCGCCG
     6361 CGAGTGCCAG  CGCGACGACA TCGTGGACTC CCTGACCTCC CGCGAGCCCC TGGGCAACGC
     6421 CGCCGGCGTG  AAGTTCAAGG AGATCAACGG CTCCGTGTCC CCCAAGAAGG ACGAGCAGGA
     6481 CCTGTCCCGC  TTCATGCACC TGCTGCGCTC CGCCGGCTCC GGCCTGGAGA TCAACCGCTG
     6541 CCGCACCGAG  TGGCGCAAGA AGCCCGCCAA GCGCATGGAC TACAAGGACC ACGACGGCGA
     6601 CTACAAGGAC  CACGACATCG ACTACAAGGA CGACGACGAC AAGTGAATCG ATAGATCTCT
     6661 TAAGGCAGCA  GCAGCTCGGA TAGTATCGAC ACACTCTGGA CGCTGGTCGT GTGATGGACT
     6721 GTTGCCGCCA  CACTTGCTGC CTTGACCTGT GAATATCCCT GCCGCTTTTA TCAAACAGCC
     6781 TCAGTGTGTT  TGATCTTGTG TGTACGCGCT TTTGCGAGTT GCTAGCTGCT TGTGCTATTT
     6841 GCGAATACCA  CCCCCAGCAT CCCCTTCCCT CGTTTCATAT CGCTTGCATC CCAACCGCAA
     6901 CTTATCTACG  CTGTCCTGCT ATCCCTCAGC GCTGCTCCTG CTCCTGCTCA CTGCCCCTCG
     6961 CACAGCCTTG  GTTTGGGCTC CGCCTGTATT CTCCTGGTAC TGCAACCTGT AAACCAGCAC
     7021 TGCAATGCTG  ATGCACGGGA AGTAGTGGGA TGGGAACACA AATGGAAAGC TTAATTAAGA
     7081 GCTCCCGCCA  CCACTCCAAC ACGGGGTGCC TGGACAAGGA CGAGGTGTTT GTGCCGCCGC
     7141 ACCGCGCAGT  GGCGCACGAG GGCCTGGAGT GGGAGGAGTG GCTGCCCATC CGCATGGGCA
     7201 AGGTGCTGGT  CACCCTGACC CTGGGCTGGC CGCTGTACCT CATGTTCAAC GTCGCCTCGC
     7261 GGCCGTACCC  GCGCTTCGCC AACCACTTTG ACCCGTGGTC GCCCATCTTC AGCAAGCGCG
     7321 AGCGCATCGA  GGTGGTCATC TCCGACCTGG CGCTGGTGGC GGTGCTCAGC GGGCTCAGCG
     7381 TGCTGGGCCG  CACCATGGGC TGGGCCTGGC TGGTCAAGAC CTACGTGGTG CCCTACCTGA
     7441 TCGTGAACAT  GTGGCTCGTG CTCATCACGC TGCTCCAGCA CACGCACCCG GCGCTGCCGC
     7501 ACTACTTCGA  GAAGGACTGG GACTGGCTGC GCGGCGCCAT GGCCACCGTG GACCGCTCCA
     7561 TGGGCCCGCC  CTTCATGGAC AACATCCTGC ACCACATCTC CGACACCCAC GTGCTGCACC
     7621 ACCTCTTCAG  CACCATCCCG CACTACCACG CCGAGGAGGC CTCCGCCGCC ATCAGGCCCA
     7681 TCCTGGGCAA  GTACTACCAG TCCGACAGCC GCTGGGTCGG CCGCGCCCTG TGGGAGGACT
     7741 GGCGCGACTG  CCGCTACGTC GTCCCGGACG CGCCCGAGGA CGACTCCGCG CTCTGGTTCC
     7801 ACP.AGTGAGT GAGTGAGAAG AGCCTCTAGA GTCGACCTGC AGGCATGCAA GCTTGGCGTA
     7861 ATCATGGTCA  TAGCTGTTTC CTGTGTGAAA TTGTTATCCG CTCACAATTC CACACAACAT
     7921 ACGAGCCGGA  AGCATAAAGT GTAAAGCCTG GGGTGCCTAA TGAGTGAGCT AACTCACATT
     7981 AATTGCGTTG  CGCTCACTGC CCGCTTTCCA GTCGGGAAAC CTGTCGTGCC AGCTGCATTA
     8041 ATGAATCGGC  CAACGCGCGG GGAGAGGCGG TTTGCGTATT GGGCGCTCTT CCGCTTCCTC
     8101 GCTCACTGAC  TCGCTGCGCT CGGTCGTTCG GCTGCGGCGA GCGGTATCAG CTCACTCAAA
     8161 GGCGGTAATA  CGGTTATCCA CAGAATCAGG GGATAACGCA GGAAAGAACA TGTGAGCAAA
     8221 AGGCCAGCAA  AAGGCCAGGA ACCGTAAAAA GGCCGCGTTG CTGGCGTTTT TCCATAGGCT
     8281 CCGCCCCCCT  GACGAGCATC ACAAAAATCG ACGCTCAAGT CAGAGGTGGC GAAACCCGAC
     8341 AGGACTATAA  AGATACCAGG CGTTTCCCCC TGGAAGCTCC CTCGTGCGCT CTCCTGTTCC
     8401 GACCCTGCCG  CTTACCGGAT ACCTGTCCGC CTTTCTCCCT TCGGGAAGCG TGGCGCTTTC
     8461 TCATAGCTCA  CGCTGTAGGT ATCTCAGTTC GGTGTAGGTC GTTCGCTCCA AGCTGGGCTG
     8521 TGTGCACGAA  CCCCCCGTTC AGCCCGACCG CTGCGCCTTA TCCGGTAACT ATCGTCTTGA
     8581 GTCCAACCCG  GTAAGACACG ACTTATCGC
SEQ ID NO: 235
pSZ1570
        1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
                                      345

 841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
 901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
 961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
1021 CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
1081 TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
1141 GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
1201 TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
1261 GG~.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
1321 ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
1381 CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
1441 TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
1501 GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
1561 CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
1621 TT~.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
1681 CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
1741 ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
1801 GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
1861 AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCGCCGCCG CCACTCCTGC TCGAGCGCGC
1921 CCGCGCGTGC  GCCGCCAGCG CCTTGGCCTT TTCGCCGCGC TCGTGCGCGT CGCTGATGTC
1981 CATCACCAGG  TCCATGAGGT CTGCCTTGCG CCGGCTGAGC CACTGCTTCG TCCGGGCGGC
2041 CAAGAGGAGC  ATGAGGGAGG ACTCCTGGTC CAGGGTCCTG ACGTGGTCGC GGCTCTGGGA
2101 GCGGGCCAGC  ATCATCTGGC TCTGCCGCAC CGAGGCCGCC TCCAACTGGT CCTCCAGCAG
2161 CCGCAGTCGC  CGCCGACCCT GGCAGAGGAA GACAGGTGAG GGGGGTATGA ATTGTACAGA
2221 AC~.ACCACGA GCCTTGTCTA GGCAGAATCC CTACCAGTCA TGGCTTTACC TGGATGACGG
2281 CCTGCGAACA  GCTGTCCAGC GACCCTCGCT GCCGCCGCTT CTCCCGCACG CTTCTTTCCA
2341 GCACCGTGAT  GGCGCGAGCC AGCGCCGCAC GCTGGCGCTG CGCTTCGCCG ATCTGAGGAC
2401 AGTCGGGGAA  CTCTGATCAG TCTAAACCCC CTTGCGCGTT AGTGTTGCCA TCCTTTGCAG
2461 ACCGGTGAGA  GCCGACTTGT TGTGCGCCAC CCCCCACACC ACCTCCTCCC AGACCAATTC
2521 TGTCACCTTT  TTGGCGAAGG CATCGGCCTC GGCCTGCAGA GAGGACAGCA GTGCCCAGCC
2581 GCTGGGGGTT  GGCGGATGCA CGCTCAGGTA CCCTTTCTTG CGCTATGACA CTTCCAGCAA
2641 AAGGTAGGGC  GGGCTGCGAG ACGGCTTCCC GGCGCTGCAT GCAACACCGA TGATGCTTCG
2701 ACCCCCCGAA  GCTCCTTCGG GGCTGCATGG GCGCTCCGAT GCCGCTCCAG GGCGAGCGCT
2761 GTTTAAATAG  CCAGGCCCCC GATTGCAAAG ACATTATAGC GAGCTACCAA AGCCATATTC
2821 AAACACCTAG  ATCACTACCA CTTCTACACA GGCCACTCGA GCTTGTGATC GCACTCCGCT
2881 AAGGGGGCGC  CTCTTCCTCT TCGTTTCAGT CACAACCCGC AAACGGCGCG CCATGCTGCT
2941 GCAGGCCTTC  CTGTTCCTGC TGGCCGGCTT CGCCGCCAAG ATCAGCGCCT CCATGACGAA
3001 CGAGACGTCC  GACCGCCCCC TGGTGCACTT CACCCCCAAC AAGGGCTGGA TGAACGACCC
3061 CAACGGCCTG  TGGTACGACG AGAAGGACGC CAAGTGGCAC CTGTACTTCC AGTACAACCC
3121 GAACGACACC  GTCTGGGGGA CGCCCTTGTT CTGGGGCCAC GCCACGTCCG ACGACCTGAC
3181 CAACTGGGAG  GACCAGCCCA TCGCCATCGC CCCGAAGCGC AACGACTCCG GCGCCTTCTC
3241 CGGCTCCATG  GTGGTGGACT ACAACAACAC CTCCGGCTTC TTCAACGACA CCATCGACCC
3301 GCGCCAGCGC  TGCGTGGCCA TCTGGACCTA CAACACCCCG GAGTCCGAGG AGCAGTACAT
3361 CTCCTACAGC  CTGGACGGCG GCTACACCTT CACCGAGTAC CAGAAGAACC CCGTGCTGGC
3421 CGCCAACTCC  ACCCAGTTCC GCGACCCGAA GGTCTTCTGG TACGAGCCCT CCCAGAAGTG
3481 GATCATGACC  GCGGCCAAGT CCCAGGACTA CAAGATCGAG ATCTACTCCT CCGACGACCT
3541 GAAGTCCTGG  AAGCTGGAGT CCGCGTTCGC CAACGAGGGC TTCCTCGGCT ACCAGTACGA
3601 GTGCCCCGGC  CTGATCGAGG TCCCCACCGA GCAGGACCCC AGCAAGTCCT ACTGGGTGAT
3661 GTTCATCTCC  ATCAACCCCG GCGCCCCGGC CGGCGGCTCC TTCAACCAGT ACTTCGTCGG
3721 CAGCTTCAAC  GGCACCCACT TCGAGGCCTT CGACAACCAG TCCCGCGTGG TGGACTTCGG
3781 CAAGGACTAC  TACGCCCTGC AGACCTTCTT CAACACCGAC CCGACCTACG GGAGCGCCCT
3841 GGGCATCGCG  TGGGCCTCCA ACTGGGAGTA CTCCGCCTTC GTGCCCACCA ACCCCTGGCG
3901 CTCCTCCATG  TCCCTCGTGC GCAAGTTCTC CCTCAACACC GAGTACCAGG CCAACCCGGA
3961 GACGGAGCTG  ATCAACCTGA AGGCCGAGCC GATCCTGAAC ATCAGCAACG CCGGCCCCTG
4021 GAGCCGGTTC  GCCACCAACA CCACGTTGAC GAAGGCCAAC AGCTACAACG TCGACCTGTC
4081 CAACAGCACC  GGCACCCTGG AGTTCGAGCT GGTGTACGCC GTCAACACCA CCCAGACGAT
4141 CTCCAAGTCC  GTGTTCGCGG ACCTCTCCCT CTGGTTCAAG GGCCTGGAGG ACCCCGAGGA
4201 GTACCTCCGC  ATGGGCTTCG AGGTGTCCGC GTCCTCCTTC TTCCTGGACC GCGGGAACAG
4261 CAAGGTGAAG  TTCGTGAAGG AGAACCCCTA CTTCACCAAC CGCATGAGCG TGAACAACCA
4321 GCCCTTCAAG  AGCGAGAACG ACCTGTCCTA CTACAAGGTG TACGGCTTGC TGGACCAGAA
4381 CATCCTGGAG  CTGTACTTCA ACGACGGCGA CGTCGTGTCC ACCAACACCT ACTTCATGAC
4441 CACCGGGAAC  GCCCTGGGCT CCGTGAACAT GACGACGGGG GTGGACAACC TGTTCTACAT
                                 346

4501 CGACAAGTTC  CAGGTGCGCG AGGTCAAGTG ACAATTGGCA GCAGCAGCTC GGATAGTATC
4561 GACACACTCT  GGACGCTGGT CGTGTGATGG ACTGTTGCCG CCACACTTGC TGCCTTGACC
4621 TGTGAATATC  CCTGCCGCTT TTATCAAACA GCCTCAGTGT GTTTGATCTT GTGTGTACGC
4681 GCTTTTGCGA  GTTGCTAGCT GCTTGTGCTA TTTGCGAATA CCACCCCCAG CATCCCCTTC
4741 CCTCGTTTCA  TATCGCTTGC ATCCCAACCG CAACTTATCT ACGCTGTCCT GCTATCCCTC
4801 AGCGCTGCTC  CTGCTCCTGC TCACTGCCCC TCGCACAGCC TTGGTTTGGG CTCCGCCTGT
4861 ATTCTCCTGG  TACTGCAACC TGTAAACCAG CACTGCAATG CTGATGCACG GGAAGTAGTG
4921 GGATGGGAAC  ACAAATGGAG GATCCCGCGT CTCGAACAGA GCGCGCAGAG GAACGCTGAA
4981 GGTCTCGCCT  CTGTCGCACC TCAGCGCGGC ATACACCACA ATAACCACCT GACGAATGCG
5041 CTTGGTTCTT  CGTCCATTAG CGAAGCGTCC GGTTCACACA CGTGCCACGT TGGCGAGGTG
5101 GCAGGTGACA  ATGATCGGTG GAGCTGATGG TCGAAACGTT CACAGCCTAG GGATATCGAA
5161 TTCGGCCGAC  AGGACGCGCG TCAAAGGTGC TGGTCGTGTA TGCCCTGGCC GGCAGGTCGT
5221 TGCTGCTGCT  GGTTAGTGAT TCCGCAACCC TGATTTTGGC GTCTTATTTT GGCGTGGCAA
5281 ACGCTGGCGC  CCGCGAGCCG GGCCGGCGGC GATGCGGTGC CCCACGGCTG CCGGAATCCA
5341 AGGGAGGCAA  GAGCGCCCGG GTCAGTTGAA GGGCTTTACG CGCAAGGTAC AGCCGCTCCT
5401 GC~.AGGCTGC GTGGTGGAAT TGGACGTGCA GGTCCTGCTG AAGTTCCTCC ACCGCCTCAC
5461 CAGCGGACAA  AGCACCGGTG TATCAGGTCC GTGTCATCCA CTCTAAAGAG CTCGACTACG
5521 ACCTACTGAT  GGCCCTAGAT TCTTCATCAA AAACGCCTGA GACACTTGCC CAGGATTGAA
5581 ACTCCCTGAA  GGGACCACCA GGGGCCCTGA GTTGTTCCTT CCCCCCGTGG CGAGCTGCCA
5641 GCCAGGCTGT  ACCTGTGATC GAGGCTGGCG GGAAAATAGG CTTCGTGTGC TCAGGTCATG
5701 GGAGGTGCAG  GACAGCTCAT GAAACGCCAA CAATCGCACA ATTCATGTCA AGCTAATCAG
5761 CTATTTCCTC  TTCACGAGCT GTAATTGTCC CAAAATTCTG GTCTACCGGG GGTGATCCTT
5821 CGTGTACGGG  CCCTTCCCTC AACCCTAGGT ATGCGCGCAT GCGGTCGCCG CGCAACTCGC
5881 GCGAGGGCCG  AGGGTTTGGG ACGGGCCGTC CCGAAATGCA GTTGCACCCG GATGCGTGGC
5941 ACCTTTTTTG  CGATAATTTA TGCAATGGAC TGCTCTGCAA AATTCTGGCT CTGTCGCCAA
6001 CCCTAGGATC  AGCGGCGTAG GATTTCGTAA TCATTCGTCC TGATGGGGAG CTACCGACTA
6061 CCCTAATATC  AGCCCGACTG CCTGACGCCA GCGTCCACTT TTGTGCACAC ATTCCATTCG
6121 TGCCCAAGAC  ATTTCATTGT GGTGCGAAGC GTCCCCAGTT ACGCTCACCT GTTTCCCGAC
6181 CTCCTTACTG  TTCTGTCGAC AGAGCGGGCC CACAGGCCGG TCGCAGCCAC TAGTATGGCT
6241 TCCGCGGCAT  TCACCATGTC GGCGTGCCCC GCGATGACTG GCAGGGCCCC TGGGGCACGT
6301 CGCTCCGGAC  GGCCAGTCGC CACCCGCCTG AGGGGGCGCG CCCCCAAGGC CAACGGCTCC
6361 GCCGTGTCCC  TGAAGTCCGG CTCCCTGGAC ACCCAGGAGG ACACCTCCTC CTCCTCCTCC
6421 CCCCCCCGCA  CCTTCATCAA CCAGCTGCCC GACTGGTCCA TGCTGCTGTC CGCCATCACC
6481 ACCGTGTTCG  TGGCCGCCGA GAAGCAGTGG ACCATGCTGG ACCGCAAGTC CAAGCGCCCC
6541 GACACCCTGA  TGGACCCCTT CGGCGTGGAC CGCGTGGTGC AGGACGGCGT GGTGTTCCGC
6601 CAGTCCTTCT  CCATCCGCTC CTACGAGATC GGCGCCGACC GCACCGCCTC CATCGAGACC
6661 CTGATGAACA  TCTTCCAGGA GACCTCCCTG AACCACTGCA AGTCCATCGG CCTGCTGAAC
6721 GACGGCTTCG  GCCGCACCCC CGAGATGTGC AAGCGCGACC TGATCTGGGT GGTGACCAAG
6781 ATGCACATCG  AGGTGAACCG CTACCCCACC TGGGGCGACA CCATCGAGGT GAACACCTGG
6841 GTGTCCGAGT  CCGGCAAGAC CGGCATGGGC CGCGACTGGC TGATCTCCGA CTGCCACACC
6901 GGCGAGATCC  TGATCCGCGC CACCTCCGTG TGCGCCATGA TGAACCAGAC CACCCGCCGC
6961 TTCTCCAAGT  TCCCCTACGA GGTGCGCCAG GAGCTGGCCC CCCACTTCGT GGACTCCGCC
7021 CCCGTGATCG  AGGACTACCA GAAGCTGCAC AAGCTGGACG TGAAGACCGG CGACTCCATC
7081 TGCAACGGCC  TGACCCCCCG CTGGAACGAC CTGGACGTGA ACCAGCACGT GAACAACGTG
7141 AAGTACATCG  GCTGGATTCT GGAGTCCGTG CCCAAGGAGG TGTTCGAGAC CCAGGAGCTG
7201 TGCGGCCTGA  CCCTGGAGTA CCGCCGCGAG TGCGGCCGCG ACTCCGTGCT GAAGTCCGTG
7261 ACCGCCATGG  ACCCCTCCAA GGAGGGCGAC CGCTCCCTGT ACCAGCACCT GCTGCGCCTG
7321 GAGGACGGCA  CCGACATCGC CAAGGGCCGC ACCAAGTGGC GCCCCAAGAA CGCCGGCACC
7381 AACGGCGCCA  TCTCCACCGG CAAGACCTCC AACGGCAACT CCATCTCCTG ATTAATTAAC
7441 TCGAGGCAGC  AGCAGCTCGG ATAGTATCGA CACACTCTGG ACGCTGGTCG TGTGATGGAC
7501 TGTTGCCGCC  ACACTTGCTG CCTTGACCTG TGAATATCCC TGCCGCTTTT ATCAAACAGC
7561 CTCAGTGTGT  TTGATCTTGT GTGTACGCGC TTTTGCGAGT TGCTAGCTGC TTGTGCTATT
7621 TGCGAATACC  ACCCCCAGCA TCCCCTTCCC TCGTTTCATA TCGCTTGCAT CCCAACCGCA
7681 ACTTATCTAC  GCTGTCCTGC TATCCCTCAG CGCTGCTCCT GCTCCTGCTC ACTGCCCCTC
7741 GCACAGCCTT  GGTTTGGGCT CCGCCTGTAT TCTCCTGGTA CTGCAACCTG TAAACCAGCA
7801 CTGCAATGCT  GATGCACGGG AAGTAGTGGG ATGGGAACAC AAATGGAAAG CTTGAGCTCT
7861 TGTTTTCCAG  AAGGAGTTGC TCCTTGAGCC TTTCATTCTC AGCCTCGATA ACCTCCAAAG
7921 CCGCTCTAAT  TGTGGAGGGG GTTCGAATTT AAAAGCTTGG AATGTTGGTT CGTGCGTCTG
7981 GAACAAGCCC  AGACTTGTTG CTCACTGGGA AAAGGACCAT CAGCTCCAAA AAACTTGCCG
8041 CTCAAACCGC  GTACCTCTGC TTTCGCGCAA TCTGCCCTGT TGAAATCGCC ACCACATTCA
8101 TATTGTGACG  CTTGAGCAGT CTGTAATTGC CTCAGAATGT GGAATCATCT GCCCCCTGTG
                                 347

     8161  CGAGCCCATG  CCAGGCATGT CGCGGGCGAG GACACCCGCC ACTCGTACAG CAGACCATTA
     8221  TGCTACCTCA  CAATAGTTCA TAACAGTGAC CATATTTCTC GAAGCTCCCC AACGAGCACC
     8281  TCCATGCTCT  GAGTGGCCAC CCCCCGGCCC TGGTGCTTGC GGAGGGCAGG TCAACCGGCA
     8341  TGGGGCTACC  GAAATCCCCG ACCGGATCCC ACCACCCCCG CGATGGGAAG AATCTCTCCC
     8401  CGGGATGTGG  GCCCACCACC AGCACAACCT GCTGGCCCAG GCGAGCGTCA AACCATACCA
     8461  CACAAATATC  CTTGGCATCG GCCCTGAATT CCTTCTGCCG CTCTGCTACC CGGTGCTTCT
     8521  GTCCGAAGCA  GGGGTTGCTA GGGATCGCTC CGAGTCCGCA AACCCTTGTC GCGTGGCGGG
     8581  GCTTGTTCGA  GCTTGAAGAG CCTCTAGAGT CGACCTGCAG GCATGCAAGC TTGGCGTAAT
     8641  CATGGTCATA  GCTGTTTCCT GTGTGAAATT GTTATCCGCT CACAATTCCA CACAACATAC
     8701  GAGCCGGAAG  CATAAAGTGT AAAGCCTGGG GTGCCTAATG AGTGAGCTAA CTCACATTAA
     8761  TTGCGTTGCG  CTCACTGCCC GCTTTCCAGT CGGGAAACCT GTCGTGCCAG CTGCATTAAT
     8821  GAATCGGCCA  ACGCGCGGGG AGAGGCGGTT TGCGTATTGG GCGCTCTTCC GCTTCCTCGC
     8881  TCACTGACTC  GCTGCGCTCG GTCGTTCGGC TGCGGCGAGC GGTATCAGCT CACTCAAAGG
     8941  CGGTAATACG  GTTATCCACA GAATCAGGGG ATAACGCAGG AAAGAACATG TGAGCAAAAG
     9001  GCCAGCAAAA  GGCCAGGAAC CGTAAAAAGG CCGCGTTGCT GGCGTTTTTC CATAGGCTCC
     9061  GCCCCCCTGA  CGAGCATCAC AAAAATCGAC GCTCAAGTCA GAGGTGGCGA AACCCGACAG
     9121  GACTATAAAG  ATACCAGGCG TTTCCCCCTG GAAGCTCCCT CGTGCGCTCT CCTGTTCCGA
     9181  CCCTGCCGCT  TACCGGATAC CTGTCCGCCT TTCTCCCTTC GGGAAGCGTG GCGCTTTCTC
     9241  ATAGCTCACG  CTGTAGGTAT CTCAGTTCGG TGTAGGTCGT TCGCTCCAAG CTGGGCTGTG
     9301  TGCACGAACC  CCCCGTTCAG CCCGACCGCT GCGCCTTATC CGGTAACTAT CGTCTTGAGT
     9361  CC~.ACCCGGT AAGACACGAC TTATCGC
SEQ ID NO: 236
pSZ941
         1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
        61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
       121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
       181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
       241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
       301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
       361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
       421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
       481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
       541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
       601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
       661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
       721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
       781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
       841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
       901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
       961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
     1021  CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
     1081  TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
     1141  GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
     1201  TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
     1261  GG~.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
     1321  ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
     1381  CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
     1441  TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
     1501  GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
     1561  CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
     1621  TT~.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
     1681  CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
     1741  ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
     1801  GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
     1861  AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCGCCGCCG CCACTCCTGC TCGAGCGCGC
     1921  CCGCGCGTGC  GCCGCCAGCG CCTTGGCCTT TTCGCCGCGC TCGTGCGCGT CGCTGATGTC
     1981  CATCACCAGG  TCCATGAGGT CTGCCTTGCG CCGGCTGAGC CACTGCTTCG TCCGGGCGGC
     2041  CAAGAGGAGC  ATGAGGGAGG ACTCCTGGTC CAGGGTCCTG ACGTGGTCGC GGCTCTGGGA
                                       348

2101 GCGGGCCAGC   ATCATCTGGC TCTGCCGCAC CGAGGCCGCC TCCAACTGGT CCTCCAGCAG
2161 CCGCAGTCGC   CGCCGACCCT GGCAGAGGAA GACAGGTGAG GGGGGTATGA ATTGTACAGA
2221 ACPJ\.CCACGA GCCTTGTCTA GGCAGAATCC CTACCAGTCA TGGCTTTACC TGGATGACGG
2281 CCTGCGAACA   GCTGTCCAGC GACCCTCGCT GCCGCCGCTT CTCCCGCACG CTTCTTTCCA
2341 GCACCGTGAT   GGCGCGAGCC AGCGCCGCAC GCTGGCGCTG CGCTTCGCCG ATCTGAGGAC
2401 AGTCGGGGAA   CTCTGATCAG TCTAAACCCC CTTGCGCGTT AGTGTTGCCA TCCTTTGCAG
2461 ACCGGTGAGA   GCCGACTTGT TGTGCGCCAC CCCCCACACC ACCTCCTCCC AGACCAATTC
2521 TGTCACCTTT   TTGGCGAAGG CATCGGCCTC GGCCTGCAGA GAGGACAGCA GTGCCCAGCC
2581 GCTGGGGGTT   GGCGGATGCA CGCTCAGGTA CCCTTTCTTG CGCTATGACA CTTCCAGCAA
2641 AAGGTAGGGC   GGGCTGCGAG ACGGCTTCCC GGCGCTGCAT GCAACACCGA TGATGCTTCG
2701 ACCCCCCGAA   GCTCCTTCGG GGCTGCATGG GCGCTCCGAT GCCGCTCCAG GGCGAGCGCT
2761 GTTTAAATAG   CCAGGCCCCC GATTGCAAAG ACATTATAGC GAGCTACCAA AGCCATATTC
2821 AAACACCTAG   ATCACTACCA CTTCTACACA GGCCACTCGA GCTTGTGATC GCACTCCGCT
2881 AAGGGGGCGC   CTCTTCCTCT TCGTTTCAGT CACAACCCGC AAACTCTAGA ATATCAATGA
2941 TCGAGCAGGA   CGGCCTCCAC GCCGGCTCCC CCGCCGCCTG GGTGGAGCGC CTGTTCGGCT
3001 ACGACTGGGC   CCAGCAGACC ATCGGCTGCT CCGACGCCGC CGTGTTCCGC CTGTCCGCCC
3061 AGGGCCGCCC   CGTGCTGTTC GTGAAGACCG ACCTGTCCGG CGCCCTGAAC GAGCTGCAGG
3121 ACGAGGCCGC   CCGCCTGTCC TGGCTGGCCA CCACCGGCGT GCCCTGCGCC GCCGTGCTGG
3181 ACGTGGTGAC   CGAGGCCGGC CGCGACTGGC TGCTGCTGGG CGAGGTGCCC GGCCAGGACC
3241 TGCTGTCCTC   CCACCTGGCC CCCGCCGAGA AGGTGTCCAT CATGGCCGAC GCCATGCGCC
3301 GCCTGCACAC   CCTGGACCCC GCCACCTGCC CCTTCGACCA CCAGGCCAAG CACCGCATCG
3361 AGCGCGCCCG   CACCCGCATG GAGGCCGGCC TGGTGGACCA GGACGACCTG GACGAGGAGC
3421 ACCAGGGCCT   GGCCCCCGCC GAGCTGTTCG CCCGCCTGAA GGCCCGCATG CCCGACGGCG
3481 AGGACCTGGT   GGTGACCCAC GGCGACGCCT GCCTGCCCAA CATCATGGTG GAGAACGGCC
3541 GCTTCTCCGG   CTTCATCGAC TGCGGCCGCC TGGGCGTGGC CGACCGCTAC CAGGACATCG
3601 CCCTGGCCAC   CCGCGACATC GCCGAGGAGC TGGGCGGCGA GTGGGCCGAC CGCTTCCTGG
3661 TGCTGTACGG   CATCGCCGCC CCCGACTCCC AGCGCATCGC CTTCTACCGC CTGCTGGACG
3721 AGTTCTTCTG   ACAATTGGCA GCAGCAGCTC GGATAGTATC GACACACTCT GGACGCTGGT
3781 CGTGTGATGG   ACTGTTGCCG CCACACTTGC TGCCTTGACC TGTGAATATC CCTGCCGCTT
3841 TTATCAAACA   GCCTCAGTGT GTTTGATCTT GTGTGTACGC GCTTTTGCGA GTTGCTAGCT
3901 GCTTGTGCTA   TTTGCGAATA CCACCCCCAG CATCCCCTTC CCTCGTTTCA TATCGCTTGC
3961 ATCCCAACCG   CAACTTATCT ACGCTGTCCT GCTATCCCTC AGCGCTGCTC CTGCTCCTGC
4021 TCACTGCCCC   TCGCACAGCC TTGGTTTGGG CTCCGCCTGT ATTCTCCTGG TACTGCAACC
4081 TGTAAACCAG   CACTGCAATG CTGATGCACG GGAAGTAGTG GGATGGGAAC ACAAATGGAG
4141 GATCCCGCGT   CTCGAACAGA GCGCGCAGAG GAACGCTGAA GGTCTCGCCT CTGTCGCACC
4201 TCAGCGCGGC   ATACACCACA ATAACCACCT GACGAATGCG CTTGGTTCTT CGTCCATTAG
4261 CGPJ\.GCGTCC GGTTCACACA CGTGCCACGT TGGCGAGGTG GCAGGTGACA ATGATCGGTG
4321 GAGCTGATGG   TCGAAACGTT CACAGCCTAG GGATATCGAA TTCCTTTCTT GCGCTATGAC
4381 ACTTCCAGCA   AAAGGTAGGG CGGGCTGCGA GACGGCTTCC CGGCGCTGCA TGCAACACCG
4441 ATGATGCTTC   GACCCCCCGA AGCTCCTTCG GGGCTGCATG GGCGCTCCGA TGCCGCTCCA
4501 GGGCGAGCGC   TGTTTAAATA GCCAGGCCCC CGATTGCAAA GACATTATAG CGAGCTACCA
4561 AAGCCATATT   CAAACACCTA GATCACTACC ACTTCTACAC AGGCCACTCG AGCTTGTGAT
4621 CGCACTCCGC   TAAGGGGGCG CCTCTTCCTC TTCGTTTCAG TCACAACCCG CAAACACTAG
4681 TATGGCCACC   GCATCCACTT TCTCGGCGTT CAATGCCCGC TGCGGCGACC TGCGTCGCTC
4741 GGCGGGCTCC   GGGCCCCGGC GCCCAGCGAG GCCCCTCCCC GTGCGCGGGC GCGCCCCCGA
4801 CTGGTCCATG   CTGTTCGCCG TGATCACCAC CATCTTCTCC GCCGCCGAGA AGCAGTGGAC
4861 CAACCTGGAG   TGGAAGCCCA AGCCCAACCC CCCCCAGCTG CTGGACGACC ACTTCGGCCC
4921 CCACGGCCTG   GTGTTCCGCC GCACCTTCGC CATCCGCAGC TACGAGGTGG GCCCCGACCG
4981 CTCCACCAGC   ATCGTGGCCG TGATGAACCA CCTGCAGGAG GCCGCCCTGA ACCACGCCAA
5041 GTCCGTGGGC   ATCCTGGGCG ACGGCTTCGG CACCACCCTG GAGATGTCCA AGCGCGACCT
5101 GATCTGGGTG   GTGAAGCGCA CCCACGTGGC CGTGGAGCGC TACCCCGCCT GGGGCGACAC
5161 CGTGGAGGTG   GAGTGCTGGG TGGGCGCCTC CGGCAACAAC GGCCGCCGCC ACGACTTCCT
5221 GGTGCGCGAC   TGCAAGACCG GCGAGATCCT GACCCGCTGC ACCTCCCTGA GCGTGATGAT
5281 GAACACCCGC   ACCCGCCGCC TGAGCAAGAT CCCCGAGGAG GTGCGCGGCG AGATCGGCCC
5341 CGCCTTCATC   GACAACGTGG CCGTGAAGGA CGAGGAGATC AAGAAGCCCC AGAAGCTGAA
5401 CGACTCCACC   GCCGACTACA TCCAGGGCGG CCTGACCCCC CGCTGGAACG ACCTGGACAT
5461 CAACCAGCAC   GTGAACAACA TCAAGTACGT GGACTGGATC CTGGAGACCG TGCCCGACAG
5521 CATCTTCGAG   AGCCACCACA TCTCCTCCTT CACCATCGAG TACCGCCGCG AGTGCACCAT
5581 GGACAGCGTG   CTGCAGTCCC TGACCACCGT GAGCGGCGGC TCCTCCGAGG CCGGCCTGGT
5641 GTGCGAGCAC   CTGCTGCAGC TGGAGGGCGG CAGCGAGGTG CTGCGCGCCA AGACCGAGTG
5701 GCGCCCCAAG   CTGACCGACT CCTTCCGCGG CATCAGCGTG ATCCCCGCCG AGTCCAGCGT
                                  349

     5761 GATGGACTAC  AAGGACCACG  ACGGCGACTA CAAGGACCAC GACATCGACT ACAAGGACGA
     5821 CGACGACAAG  TGACTCGAGG  CAGCAGCAGC TCGGATAGTA TCGACACACT CTGGACGCTG
     5881 GTCGTGTGAT  GGACTGTTGC  CGCCACACTT GCTGCCTTGA CCTGTGAATA TCCCTGCCGC
     5941 TTTTATCAAA  CAGCCTCAGT  GTGTTTGATC TTGTGTGTAC GCGCTTTTGC GAGTTGCTAG
     6001 CTGCTTGTGC  TATTTGCGAA  TACCACCCCC AGCATCCCCT TCCCTCGTTT CATATCGCTT
     6061 GCATCCCAAC  CGCAACTTAT  CTACGCTGTC CTGCTATCCC TCAGCGCTGC TCCTGCTCCT
     6121 GCTCACTGCC  CCTCGCACAG  CCTTGGTTTG GGCTCCGCCT GTATTCTCCT GGTACTGCAA
     6181 CCTGTAAACC  AGCACTGCAA  TGCTGATGCA CGGGAAGTAG TGGGATGGGA ACACAAATGG
     6241 AAAGCTTGAG  CTCTTGTTTT  CCAGAAGGAG TTGCTCCTTG AGCCTTTCAT TCTCAGCCTC
     6301 GATAACCTCC  AAAGCCGCTC  TAATTGTGGA GGGGGTTCGA ATTTAAAAGC TTGGAATGTT
     6361 GGTTCGTGCG  TCTGGAACAA  GCCCAGACTT GTTGCTCACT GGGAAAAGGA CCATCAGCTC
     6421 CAP.AAAACTT GCCGCTCAAA  CCGCGTACCT CTGCTTTCGC GCAATCTGCC CTGTTGAAAT
     6481 CGCCACCACA  TTCATATTGT  GACGCTTGAG CAGTCTGTAA TTGCCTCAGA ATGTGGAATC
     6541 ATCTGCCCCC  TGTGCGAGCC  CATGCCAGGC ATGTCGCGGG CGAGGACACC CGCCACTCGT
     6601 ACAGCAGACC  ATTATGCTAC  CTCACAATAG TTCATAACAG TGACCATATT TCTCGAAGCT
     6661 CCCCAACGAG  CACCTCCATG  CTCTGAGTGG CCACCCCCCG GCCCTGGTGC TTGCGGAGGG
     6721 CAGGTCAACC  GGCATGGGGC  TACCGAAATC CCCGACCGGA TCCCACCACC CCCGCGATGG
     6781 GAAGAATCTC  TCCCCGGGAT  GTGGGCCCAC CACCAGCACA ACCTGCTGGC CCAGGCGAGC
     6841 GTCAAACCAT  ACCACACAP.A TATCCTTGGC ATCGGCCCTG AATTCCTTCT GCCGCTCTGC
     6901 TACCCGGTGC  TTCTGTCCGA  AGCAGGGGTT GCTAGGGATC GCTCCGAGTC CGCAAACCCT
     6961 TGTCGCGTGG  CGGGGCTTGT  TCGAGCTTGA AGAGCCTCTA GAGTCGACCT GCAGGCATGC
     7021 AAGCTTGGCG  TAATCATGGT  CATAGCTGTT TCCTGTGTGA AATTGTTATC CGCTCACAAT
     7081 TCCACACAAC  ATACGAGCCG  GAAGCATAAA GTGTAAAGCC TGGGGTGCCT AATGAGTGAG
     7141 CTP.ACTCACA TTAATTGCGT  TGCGCTCACT GCCCGCTTTC CAGTCGGGAA ACCTGTCGTG
     7201 CCAGCTGCAT  TAATGAATCG  GCCAACGCGC GGGGAGAGGC GGTTTGCGTA TTGGGCGCTC
     7261 TTCCGCTTCC  TCGCTCACTG  ACTCGCTGCG CTCGGTCGTT CGGCTGCGGC GAGCGGTATC
     7321 AGCTCACTCA  AAGGCGGTAA  TACGGTTATC CACAGAATCA GGGGATAACG CAGGAAAGAA
     7381 CATGTGAGCA  AAAGGCCAGC  AAAAGGCCAG GAACCGTAAA AAGGCCGCGT TGCTGGCGTT
     7441 TTTCCATAGG  CTCCGCCCCC  CTGACGAGCA TCACAAAAAT CGACGCTCAA GTCAGAGGTG
     7501 GCGAAACCCG  ACAGGACTAT  AAAGATACCA GGCGTTTCCC CCTGGAAGCT CCCTCGTGCG
     7561 CTCTCCTGTT  CCGACCCTGC  CGCTTACCGG ATACCTGTCC GCCTTTCTCC CTTCGGGAAG
     7621 CGTGGCGCTT  TCTCATAGCT  CACGCTGTAG GTATCTCAGT TCGGTGTAGG TCGTTCGCTC
     7681 CAAGCTGGGC  TGTGTGCACG  AACCCCCCGT TCAGCCCGAC CGCTGCGCCT TATCCGGTAA
     7741 CTATCGTCTT  GAGTCCAACC  CGGTAAGACA CGACTTATCG C
SEQ ID NO: 237
pSZ1439
        1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT  AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT  AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC  TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT  TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG  ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC  ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA  TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG  GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG  TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA  GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG  CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA  GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC  ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA  AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
      841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG  ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
      901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT  AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
      961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC  AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
     1021 CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG  GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
     1081 TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG  GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
     1141 GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT  GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
     1201 TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA  GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
     1261 GGP.AATGTTG AATACTCATA  CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
                                       350

1321 ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
1381 CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
1441 TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
1501 GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
1561 CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
1621 TTP.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
1681 CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
1741 ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
1801 GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
1861 AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCGCCGCCG CCACTCCTGC TCGAGCGCGC
1921 CCGCGCGTGC  GCCGCCAGCG CCTTGGCCTT TTCGCCGCGC TCGTGCGCGT CGCTGATGTC
1981 CATCACCAGG  TCCATGAGGT CTGCCTTGCG CCGGCTGAGC CACTGCTTCG TCCGGGCGGC
2041 CAAGAGGAGC  ATGAGGGAGG ACTCCTGGTC CAGGGTCCTG ACGTGGTCGC GGCTCTGGGA
2101 GCGGGCCAGC  ATCATCTGGC TCTGCCGCAC CGAGGCCGCC TCCAACTGGT CCTCCAGCAG
2161 CCGCAGTCGC  CGCCGACCCT GGCAGAGGAA GACAGGTGAG GGGGGTATGA ATTGTACAGA
2221 ACP.ACCACGA GCCTTGTCTA GGCAGAATCC CTACCAGTCA TGGCTTTACC TGGATGACGG
2281 CCTGCGAACA  GCTGTCCAGC GACCCTCGCT GCCGCCGCTT CTCCCGCACG CTTCTTTCCA
2341 GCACCGTGAT  GGCGCGAGCC AGCGCCGCAC GCTGGCGCTG CGCTTCGCCG ATCTGAGGAC
2401 AGTCGGGGAA  CTCTGATCAG TCTAAACCCC CTTGCGCGTT AGTGTTGCCA TCCTTTGCAG
2461 ACCGGTGAGA  GCCGACTTGT TGTGCGCCAC CCCCCACACC ACCTCCTCCC AGACCAATTC
2521 TGTCACCTTT  TTGGCGAAGG CATCGGCCTC GGCCTGCAGA GAGGACAGCA GTGCCCAGCC
2581 GCTGGGGGTT  GGCGGATGCA CGCTCAGGTA CCCTTTCTTG CGCTATGACA CTTCCAGCAA
2641 AAGGTAGGGC  GGGCTGCGAG ACGGCTTCCC GGCGCTGCAT GCAACACCGA TGATGCTTCG
2701 ACCCCCCGAA  GCTCCTTCGG GGCTGCATGG GCGCTCCGAT GCCGCTCCAG GGCGAGCGCT
2761 GTTTAAATAG  CCAGGCCCCC GATTGCAAAG ACATTATAGC GAGCTACCAA AGCCATATTC
2821 AAACACCTAG  ATCACTACCA CTTCTACACA GGCCACTCGA GCTTGTGATC GCACTCCGCT
2881 AAGGGGGCGC  CTCTTCCTCT TCGTTTCAGT CACAACCCGC AAACTCTAGA ATATCAATGC
2941 TGCTGCAGGC  CTTCCTGTTC CTGCTGGCCG GCTTCGCCGC CAAGATCAGC GCCTCCATGA
3001 CGP.ACGAGAC GTCCGACCGC CCCCTGGTGC ACTTCACCCC CAACAAGGGC TGGATGAACG
3061 ACCCCAACGG  CCTGTGGTAC GACGAGAAGG ACGCCAAGTG GCACCTGTAC TTCCAGTACA
3121 ACCCGAACGA  CACCGTCTGG GGGACGCCCT TGTTCTGGGG CCACGCCACG TCCGACGACC
3181 TGACCAACTG  GGAGGACCAG CCCATCGCCA TCGCCCCGAA GCGCAACGAC TCCGGCGCCT
3241 TCTCCGGCTC  CATGGTGGTG GACTACAACA ACACCTCCGG CTTCTTCAAC GACACCATCG
3301 ACCCGCGCCA  GCGCTGCGTG GCCATCTGGA CCTACAACAC CCCGGAGTCC GAGGAGCAGT
3361 ACATCTCCTA  CAGCCTGGAC GGCGGCTACA CCTTCACCGA GTACCAGAAG AACCCCGTGC
3421 TGGCCGCCAA  CTCCACCCAG TTCCGCGACC CGAAGGTCTT CTGGTACGAG CCCTCCCAGA
3481 AGTGGATCAT  GACCGCGGCC AAGTCCCAGG ACTACAAGAT CGAGATCTAC TCCTCCGACG
3541 ACCTGAAGTC  CTGGAAGCTG GAGTCCGCGT TCGCCAACGA GGGCTTCCTC GGCTACCAGT
3601 ACGAGTGCCC  CGGCCTGATC GAGGTCCCCA CCGAGCAGGA CCCCAGCAAG TCCTACTGGG
3661 TGATGTTCAT  CTCCATCAAC CCCGGCGCCC CGGCCGGCGG CTCCTTCAAC CAGTACTTCG
3721 TCGGCAGCTT  CAACGGCACC CACTTCGAGG CCTTCGACAA CCAGTCCCGC GTGGTGGACT
3781 TCGGCAAGGA  CTACTACGCC CTGCAGACCT TCTTCAACAC CGACCCGACC TACGGGAGCG
3841 CCCTGGGCAT  CGCGTGGGCC TCCAACTGGG AGTACTCCGC CTTCGTGCCC ACCAACCCCT
3901 GGCGCTCCTC  CATGTCCCTC GTGCGCAAGT TCTCCCTCAA CACCGAGTAC CAGGCCAACC
3961 CGGAGACGGA  GCTGATCAAC CTGAAGGCCG AGCCGATCCT GAACATCAGC AACGCCGGCC
4021 CCTGGAGCCG  GTTCGCCACC AACACCACGT TGACGAAGGC CAACAGCTAC AACGTCGACC
4081 TGTCCAACAG  CACCGGCACC CTGGAGTTCG AGCTGGTGTA CGCCGTCAAC ACCACCCAGA
4141 CGATCTCCAA  GTCCGTGTTC GCGGACCTCT CCCTCTGGTT CAAGGGCCTG GAGGACCCCG
4201 AGGAGTACCT  CCGCATGGGC TTCGAGGTGT CCGCGTCCTC CTTCTTCCTG GACCGCGGGA
4261 ACAGCAAGGT  GAAGTTCGTG AAGGAGAACC CCTACTTCAC CAACCGCATG AGCGTGAACA
4321 ACCAGCCCTT  CAAGAGCGAG AACGACCTGT CCTACTACAA GGTGTACGGC TTGCTGGACC
4381 AGP.ACATCCT GGAGCTGTAC TTCAACGACG GCGACGTCGT GTCCACCAAC ACCTACTTCA
4441 TGACCACCGG  GAACGCCCTG GGCTCCGTGA ACATGACGAC GGGGGTGGAC AACCTGTTCT
4501 ACATCGACAA  GTTCCAGGTG CGCGAGGTCA AGTGACAATT GGCAGCAGCA GCTCGGATAG
4561 TATCGACACA  CTCTGGACGC TGGTCGTGTG ATGGACTGTT GCCGCCACAC TTGCTGCCTT
4621 GACCTGTGAA  TATCCCTGCC GCTTTTATCA AACAGCCTCA GTGTGTTTGA TCTTGTGTGT
4681 ACGCGCTTTT  GCGAGTTGCT AGCTGCTTGT GCTATTTGCG AATACCACCC CCAGCATCCC
4741 CTTCCCTCGT  TTCATATCGC TTGCATCCCA ACCGCAACTT ATCTACGCTG TCCTGCTATC
4801 CCTCAGCGCT  GCTCCTGCTC CTGCTCACTG CCCCTCGCAC AGCCTTGGTT TGGGCTCCGC
4861 CTGTATTCTC  CTGGTACTGC AACCTGTAAA CCAGCACTGC AATGCTGATG CACGGGAAGT
4921 AGTGGGATGG  GAACACAAAT GGAGGATCCC GCGTCTCGAA CAGAGCGCGC AGAGGAACGC
                                 351

4981 TGP.AGGTCTC GCCTCTGTCG CACCTCAGCG CGGCATACAC CACAATAACC ACCTGACGAA
5041 TGCGCTTGGT  TCTTCGTCCA TTAGCGAAGC GTCCGGTTCA CACACGTGCC ACGTTGGCGA
5101 GGTGGCAGGT  GACAATGATC GGTGGAGCTG ATGGTCGAAA CGTTCACAGC CTAGGGATAT
5161 CGP.ATTCCTT TCTTGCGCTA TGACACTTCC AGCAAAAGGT AGGGCGGGCT GCGAGACGGC
5221 TTCCCGGCGC  TGCATGCAAC ACCGATGATG CTTCGACCCC CCGAAGCTCC TTCGGGGCTG
5281 CATGGGCGCT  CCGATGCCGC TCCAGGGCGA GCGCTGTTTA AATAGCCAGG CCCCCGATTG
5341 CAP.AGACATT ATAGCGAGCT ACCAAAGCCA TATTCAAACA CCTAGATCAC TACCACTTCT
5401 ACACAGGCCA  CTCGAGCTTG TGATCGCACT CCGCTAAGGG GGCGCCTCTT CCTCTTCGTT
5461 TCAGTCACAA  CCCGCAAACA CTAGTATGGC CACCGCATCC ACTTTCTCGG CGTTCAATGC
5521 CCGCTGCGGC  GACCTGCGTC GCTCGGCGGG CTCCGGGCCC CGGCGCCCAG CGAGGCCCCT
5581 CCCCGTGCGC  GGGCGCGCCG CCTCCGCCAA GGCCTCCAAG ACCATCGGCG AGGGCTCCGA
5641 GAACCTGAAC  GTGCGCGGCA TCATCGCCAA GCCCACCTCC TCCTCCGCCG CCAAGCAGGG
5701 CAAGGTGATG  GCCCAGGCCG TGCCCAAGAT CAACGGCGCC AAGGTGGGCC TGAAGGCCGA
5761 GTCCCAGAAG  GCCGAGGAGG ACGCCGCCCC CTCCTCCGCC CCCCGCACCT TCTACAACCA
5821 GCTGCCCGAC  TGGTCCGTGC TGCTGGCCGC CGTGACCACC ATCTTCCTGG CCGCCGAGAA
5881 GCAGTGGACC  CTGCTGGACT GGAAGCCCCG CCGCCCCGAC ATGCTGACCG GCGCCTTCTC
5941 CCTGGGCAAG  ATCGTGCAGG ACGGCCTGGT GTTCCGCCAG AACTTCTCCA TCCGCTCCTA
6001 CGAGATCGGC  GCCGACCGCA CCGCCTCCAT CGAGACCCTG ATGAACCACC TGCAGGAGAC
6061 CGCCCTGAAC  CACGTGCGCA ACGCCGGCCT GCTGGGCGAC GGCTTCGGCG CCACCCCCGA
6121 GATGTCCAAG  CGCAACCTGA TCTGGGTGGT GACCAAGATG CAGGTGCTGA TCGAGCACTA
6181 CCCCTCCTGG  GGCGACGTGG TGGAGGTGGA CACCTGGGTG GGCGCCTCCG GCAAGAACGG
6241 CATGCGCCGC  GACTGGCACG TGCGCGACTA CCGCACCGGC CAGACCATCC TGCGCGCCAC
6301 CTCCATCTGG  GTGATGATGG ACAAGCACAC CCGCAAGCTG TCCAAGATGC CCGAGGAGGT
6361 GCGCGCCGAG  ATCGGCCCCT ACTTCATGGA GCACGCCGCC ATCGTGGACG AGGACTCCCG
6421 CAAGCTGCCC  AAGCTGGACG ACGACACCGC CGACTACATC AAGTGGGGCC TGACCCCCCG
6481 CTGGTCCGAC  CTGGACGTGA ACCAGCACGT GAACAACGTG AAGTACATCG GCTGGATCCT
6541 GGAGTCCGCC  CCCATCTCCA TCCTGGAGAA CCACGAGCTG GCCTCCATGA CCCTGGAGTA
6601 CCGCCGCGAG  TGCGGCCGCG ACTCCGTGCT GCAGTCCCTG ACCGCCGTGG CCAACGACTG
6661 CACCGGCGGC  CTGCCCGAGG CCTCCATCGA GTGCCAGCAC CTGCTGCAGC TGGAGTGCGG
6721 CGCCGAGATC  GTGCGCGGCC GCACCCAGTG GCGCCCCCGC CGCGCCTCCG GCCCCACCTC
6781 CGCCGGCTCC  GCCATGGACT ACAAGGACCA CGACGGCGAC TACAAGGACC ACGACATCGA
6841 CTACAAGGAC  GACGACGACA AGTGAATCGA TAGATCTCTT AAGGCAGCAG CAGCTCGGAT
6901 AGTATCGACA  CACTCTGGAC GCTGGTCGTG TGATGGACTG TTGCCGCCAC ACTTGCTGCC
6961 TTGACCTGTG  AATATCCCTG CCGCTTTTAT CAAACAGCCT CAGTGTGTTT GATCTTGTGT
7021 GTACGCGCTT  TTGCGAGTTG CTAGCTGCTT GTGCTATTTG CGAATACCAC CCCCAGCATC
7081 CCCTTCCCTC  GTTTCATATC GCTTGCATCC CAACCGCAAC TTATCTACGC TGTCCTGCTA
7141 TCCCTCAGCG  CTGCTCCTGC TCCTGCTCAC TGCCCCTCGC ACAGCCTTGG TTTGGGCTCC
7201 GCCTGTATTC  TCCTGGTACT GCAACCTGTA AACCAGCACT GCAATGCTGA TGCACGGGAA
7261 GTAGTGGGAT  GGGAACACAA ATGGAAAGCT TAATTAAGAG CTCTTGTTTT CCAGAAGGAG
7321 TTGCTCCTTG  AGCCTTTCAT TCTCAGCCTC GATAACCTCC AAAGCCGCTC TAATTGTGGA
7381 GGGGGTTCGA  ATTTAAAAGC TTGGAATGTT GGTTCGTGCG TCTGGAACAA GCCCAGACTT
7441 GTTGCTCACT  GGGAAAAGGA CCATCAGCTC CAAAAAACTT GCCGCTCAAA CCGCGTACCT
7501 CTGCTTTCGC  GCAATCTGCC CTGTTGAAAT CGCCACCACA TTCATATTGT GACGCTTGAG
7561 CAGTCTGTAA  TTGCCTCAGA ATGTGGAATC ATCTGCCCCC TGTGCGAGCC CATGCCAGGC
7621 ATGTCGCGGG  CGAGGACACC CGCCACTCGT ACAGCAGACC ATTATGCTAC CTCACAATAG
7681 TTCATAACAG  TGACCATATT TCTCGAAGCT CCCCAACGAG CACCTCCATG CTCTGAGTGG
7741 CCACCCCCCG  GCCCTGGTGC TTGCGGAGGG CAGGTCAACC GGCATGGGGC TACCGAAATC
7801 CCCGACCGGA  TCCCACCACC CCCGCGATGG GAAGAATCTC TCCCCGGGAT GTGGGCCCAC
7861 CACCAGCACA  ACCTGCTGGC CCAGGCGAGC GTCAAACCAT ACCACACAAA TATCCTTGGC
7921 ATCGGCCCTG  AATTCCTTCT GCCGCTCTGC TACCCGGTGC TTCTGTCCGA AGCAGGGGTT
7981 GCTAGGGATC  GCTCCGAGTC CGCAAACCCT TGTCGCGTGG CGGGGCTTGT TCGAGCTTGA
8041 AGAGCCTCTA  GAGTCGACCT GCAGGCATGC AAGCTTGGCG TAATCATGGT CATAGCTGTT
8101 TCCTGTGTGA  AATTGTTATC CGCTCACAAT TCCACACAAC ATACGAGCCG GAAGCATAAA
8161 GTGTAAAGCC  TGGGGTGCCT AATGAGTGAG CTAACTCACA TTAATTGCGT TGCGCTCACT
8221 GCCCGCTTTC  CAGTCGGGAA ACCTGTCGTG CCAGCTGCAT TAATGAATCG GCCAACGCGC
8281 GGGGAGAGGC  GGTTTGCGTA TTGGGCGCTC TTCCGCTTCC TCGCTCACTG ACTCGCTGCG
8341 CTCGGTCGTT  CGGCTGCGGC GAGCGGTATC AGCTCACTCA AAGGCGGTAA TACGGTTATC
8401 CACAGAATCA  GGGGATAACG CAGGAAAGAA CATGTGAGCA AAAGGCCAGC AAAAGGCCAG
8461 GAACCGTAAA  AAGGCCGCGT TGCTGGCGTT TTTCCATAGG CTCCGCCCCC CTGACGAGCA
8521 TCACAAAAAT  CGACGCTCAA GTCAGAGGTG GCGAAACCCG ACAGGACTAT AAAGATACCA
8581 GGCGTTTCCC  CCTGGAAGCT CCCTCGTGCG CTCTCCTGTT CCGACCCTGC CGCTTACCGG
                                 352

     8641 ATACCTGTCC  GCCTTTCTCC CTTCGGGAAG CGTGGCGCTT TCTCATAGCT CACGCTGTAG
     8701 GTATCTCAGT  TCGGTGTAGG TCGTTCGCTC CAAGCTGGGC TGTGTGCACG AACCCCCCGT
     8761 TCAGCCCGAC  CGCTGCGCCT TATCCGGTAA CTATCGTCTT GAGTCCAACC CGGTAAGACA
     8821 CGACTTATCG  C
SEQ ID NO: 238
pSZ1449
        1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
      841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
      901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
      961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
     1021 CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
     1081 TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
     1141 GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
     1201 TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
     1261 GGP.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
     1321 ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
     1381 CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
     1441 TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
     1501 GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
     1561 CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
     1621 TTP.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
     1681 CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
     1741 ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
     1801 GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
     1861 AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCGCCGCCG CCACTCCTGC TCGAGCGCGC
     1921 CCGCGCGTGC  GCCGCCAGCG CCTTGGCCTT TTCGCCGCGC TCGTGCGCGT CGCTGATGTC
     1981 CATCACCAGG  TCCATGAGGT CTGCCTTGCG CCGGCTGAGC CACTGCTTCG TCCGGGCGGC
     2041 CAAGAGGAGC  ATGAGGGAGG ACTCCTGGTC CAGGGTCCTG ACGTGGTCGC GGCTCTGGGA
     2101 GCGGGCCAGC  ATCATCTGGC TCTGCCGCAC CGAGGCCGCC TCCAACTGGT CCTCCAGCAG
     2161 CCGCAGTCGC  CGCCGACCCT GGCAGAGGAA GACAGGTGAG GGGGGTATGA ATTGTACAGA
     2221 ACP.ACCACGA GCCTTGTCTA GGCAGAATCC CTACCAGTCA TGGCTTTACC TGGATGACGG
     2281 CCTGCGAACA  GCTGTCCAGC GACCCTCGCT GCCGCCGCTT CTCCCGCACG CTTCTTTCCA
     2341 GCACCGTGAT  GGCGCGAGCC AGCGCCGCAC GCTGGCGCTG CGCTTCGCCG ATCTGAGGAC
     2401 AGTCGGGGAA  CTCTGATCAG TCTAAACCCC CTTGCGCGTT AGTGTTGCCA TCCTTTGCAG
     2461 ACCGGTGAGA  GCCGACTTGT TGTGCGCCAC CCCCCACACC ACCTCCTCCC AGACCAATTC
     2521 TGTCACCTTT  TTGGCGAAGG CATCGGCCTC GGCCTGCAGA GAGGACAGCA GTGCCCAGCC
     2581 GCTGGGGGTT  GGCGGATGCA CGCTCAGGTA CCCTTTCTTG CGCTATGACA CTTCCAGCAA
     2641 AAGGTAGGGC  GGGCTGCGAG ACGGCTTCCC GGCGCTGCAT GCAACACCGA TGATGCTTCG
     2701 ACCCCCCGAA  GCTCCTTCGG GGCTGCATGG GCGCTCCGAT GCCGCTCCAG GGCGAGCGCT
     2761 GTTTAAATAG  CCAGGCCCCC GATTGCAAAG ACATTATAGC GAGCTACCAA AGCCATATTC
     2821 AAACACCTAG  ATCACTACCA CTTCTACACA GGCCACTCGA GCTTGTGATC GCACTCCGCT
     2881 AAGGGGGCGC  CTCTTCCTCT TCGTTTCAGT CACAACCCGC AAACTCTAGA ATATCAATGC
     2941 TGCTGCAGGC  CTTCCTGTTC CTGCTGGCCG GCTTCGCCGC CAAGATCAGC GCCTCCATGA
     3001 CGP.ACGAGAC GTCCGACCGC CCCCTGGTGC ACTTCACCCC CAACAAGGGC TGGATGAACG
     3061 ACCCCAACGG  CCTGTGGTAC GACGAGAAGG ACGCCAAGTG GCACCTGTAC TTCCAGTACA
                                      353

3121 ACCCGAACGA  CACCGTCTGG GGGACGCCCT TGTTCTGGGG CCACGCCACG TCCGACGACC
3181 TGACCAACTG  GGAGGACCAG CCCATCGCCA TCGCCCCGAA GCGCAACGAC TCCGGCGCCT
3241 TCTCCGGCTC  CATGGTGGTG GACTACAACA ACACCTCCGG CTTCTTCAAC GACACCATCG
3301 ACCCGCGCCA  GCGCTGCGTG GCCATCTGGA CCTACAACAC CCCGGAGTCC GAGGAGCAGT
3361 ACATCTCCTA  CAGCCTGGAC GGCGGCTACA CCTTCACCGA GTACCAGAAG AACCCCGTGC
3421 TGGCCGCCAA  CTCCACCCAG TTCCGCGACC CGAAGGTCTT CTGGTACGAG CCCTCCCAGA
3481 AGTGGATCAT  GACCGCGGCC AAGTCCCAGG ACTACAAGAT CGAGATCTAC TCCTCCGACG
3541 ACCTGAAGTC  CTGGAAGCTG GAGTCCGCGT TCGCCAACGA GGGCTTCCTC GGCTACCAGT
3601 ACGAGTGCCC  CGGCCTGATC GAGGTCCCCA CCGAGCAGGA CCCCAGCAAG TCCTACTGGG
3661 TGATGTTCAT  CTCCATCAAC CCCGGCGCCC CGGCCGGCGG CTCCTTCAAC CAGTACTTCG
3721 TCGGCAGCTT  CAACGGCACC CACTTCGAGG CCTTCGACAA CCAGTCCCGC GTGGTGGACT
3781 TCGGCAAGGA  CTACTACGCC CTGCAGACCT TCTTCAACAC CGACCCGACC TACGGGAGCG
3841 CCCTGGGCAT  CGCGTGGGCC TCCAACTGGG AGTACTCCGC CTTCGTGCCC ACCAACCCCT
3901 GGCGCTCCTC  CATGTCCCTC GTGCGCAAGT TCTCCCTCAA CACCGAGTAC CAGGCCAACC
3961 CGGAGACGGA  GCTGATCAAC CTGAAGGCCG AGCCGATCCT GAACATCAGC AACGCCGGCC
4021 CCTGGAGCCG  GTTCGCCACC AACACCACGT TGACGAAGGC CAACAGCTAC AACGTCGACC
4081 TGTCCAACAG  CACCGGCACC CTGGAGTTCG AGCTGGTGTA CGCCGTCAAC ACCACCCAGA
4141 CGATCTCCAA  GTCCGTGTTC GCGGACCTCT CCCTCTGGTT CAAGGGCCTG GAGGACCCCG
4201 AGGAGTACCT  CCGCATGGGC TTCGAGGTGT CCGCGTCCTC CTTCTTCCTG GACCGCGGGA
4261 ACAGCAAGGT  GAAGTTCGTG AAGGAGAACC CCTACTTCAC CAACCGCATG AGCGTGAACA
4321 ACCAGCCCTT  CAAGAGCGAG AACGACCTGT CCTACTACAA GGTGTACGGC TTGCTGGACC
4381 AGP.ACATCCT GGAGCTGTAC TTCAACGACG GCGACGTCGT GTCCACCAAC ACCTACTTCA
4441 TGACCACCGG  GAACGCCCTG GGCTCCGTGA ACATGACGAC GGGGGTGGAC AACCTGTTCT
4501 ACATCGACAA  GTTCCAGGTG CGCGAGGTCA AGTGACAATT GGCAGCAGCA GCTCGGATAG
4561 TATCGACACA  CTCTGGACGC TGGTCGTGTG ATGGACTGTT GCCGCCACAC TTGCTGCCTT
4621 GACCTGTGAA  TATCCCTGCC GCTTTTATCA AACAGCCTCA GTGTGTTTGA TCTTGTGTGT
4681 ACGCGCTTTT  GCGAGTTGCT AGCTGCTTGT GCTATTTGCG AATACCACCC CCAGCATCCC
4741 CTTCCCTCGT  TTCATATCGC TTGCATCCCA ACCGCAACTT ATCTACGCTG TCCTGCTATC
4801 CCTCAGCGCT  GCTCCTGCTC CTGCTCACTG CCCCTCGCAC AGCCTTGGTT TGGGCTCCGC
4861 CTGTATTCTC  CTGGTACTGC AACCTGTAAA CCAGCACTGC AATGCTGATG CACGGGAAGT
4921 AGTGGGATGG  GAACACAAAT GGAGGATCCC GCGTCTCGAA CAGAGCGCGC AGAGGAACGC
4981 TGP.AGGTCTC GCCTCTGTCG CACCTCAGCG CGGCATACAC CACAATAACC ACCTGACGAA
5041 TGCGCTTGGT  TCTTCGTCCA TTAGCGAAGC GTCCGGTTCA CACACGTGCC ACGTTGGCGA
5101 GGTGGCAGGT  GACAATGATC GGTGGAGCTG ATGGTCGAAA CGTTCACAGC CTAGGGATAT
5161 CGP.ATTCGGC CGACAGGACG CGCGTCAAAG GTGCTGGTCG TGTATGCCCT GGCCGGCAGG
5221 TCGTTGCTGC  TGCTGGTTAG TGATTCCGCA ACCCTGATTT TGGCGTCTTA TTTTGGCGTG
5281 GCP.AACGCTG GCGCCCGCGA GCCGGGCCGG CGGCGATGCG GTGCCCCACG GCTGCCGGAA
5341 TCCAAGGGAG  GCAAGAGCGC CCGGGTCAGT TGAAGGGCTT TACGCGCAAG GTACAGCCGC
5401 TCCTGCAAGG  CTGCGTGGTG GAATTGGACG TGCAGGTCCT GCTGAAGTTC CTCCACCGCC
5461 TCACCAGCGG  ACAAAGCACC GGTGTATCAG GTCCGTGTCA TCCACTCTAA AGAACTCGAC
5521 TACGACCTAC  TGATGGCCCT AGATTCTTCA TCAAAAACGC CTGAGACACT TGCCCAGGAT
5581 TGP.AACTCCC TGAAGGGACC ACCAGGGGCC CTGAGTTGTT CCTTCCCCCC GTGGCGAGCT
5641 GCCAGCCAGG  CTGTACCTGT GATCGAGGCT GGCGGGAAAA TAGGCTTCGT GTGCTCAGGT
5701 CATGGGAGGT  GCAGGACAGC TCATGAAACG CCAACAATCG CACAATTCAT GTCAAGCTAA
5761 TCAGCTATTT  CCTCTTCACG AGCTGTAATT GTCCCAAAAT TCTGGTCTAC CGGGGGTGAT
5821 CCTTCGTGTA  CGGGCCCTTC CCTCAACCCT AGGTATGCGC GCATGCGGTC GCCGCGCAAC
5881 TCGCGCGAGG  GCCGAGGGTT TGGGACGGGC CGTCCCGAAA TGCAGTTGCA CCCGGATGCG
5941 TGGCACCTTT  TTTGCGATAA TTTATGCAAT GGACTGCTCT GCAAAATTCT GGCTCTGTCG
6001 CCP.ACCCTAG GATCAGCGGC GTAGGATTTC GTAATCATTC GTCCTGATGG GGAGCTACCG
6061 ACTACCCTAA  TATCAGCCCG ACTGCCTGAC GCCAGCGTCC ACTTTTGTGC ACACATTCCA
6121 TTCGTGCCCA  AGACATTTCA TTGTGGTGCG AAGCGTCCCC AGTTACGCTC ACCTGTTTCC
6181 CGACCTCCTT  ACTGTTCTGT CGACAGAGCG GGCCCACAGG CCGGTCGCAG CCACTAGTAT
6241 GGCCACCGCA  TCCACTTTCT CGGCGTTCAA TGCCCGCTGC GGCGACCTGC GTCGCTCGGC
6301 GGGCTCCGGG  CCCCGGCGCC CAGCGAGGCC CCTCCCCGTG CGCGGGCGCG CCTCCCAGCT
6361 GCGCAAGCCC  GCCCTGGACC CCCTGCGCGC CGTGATCTCC GCCGACCAGG GCTCCATCTC
6421 CCCCGTGAAC  TCCTGCACCC CCGCCGACCG CCTGCGCGCC GGCCGCCTGA TGGAGGACGG
6481 CTACTCCTAC  AAGGAGAAGT TCATCGTGCG CTCCTACGAG GTGGGCATCA ACAAGACCGC
6541 CACCGTGGAG  ACCATCGCCA ACCTGCTGCA GGAGGTGGCC TGCAACCACG TGCAGAAGTG
6601 CGGCTTCTCC  ACCGACGGCT TCGCCACCAC CCTGACCATG CGCAAGCTGC ACCTGATCTG
6661 GGTGACCGCC  CGCATGCACA TCGAGATCTA CAAGTACCCC GCCTGGTCCG ACGTGGTGGA
6721 GATCGAGACC  TGGTGCCAGT CCGAGGGCCG CATCGGCACC CGCCGCGACT GGATCCTGCG
                                 354

     6781 CGACTCCGCC  ACCAACGAGG TGATCGGCCG CGCCACCTCC AAGTGGGTGA TGATGAACCA
     6841 GGACACCCGC  CGCCTGCAGC GCGTGACCGA CGAGGTGCGC GACGAGTACC TGGTGTTCTG
     6901 CCCCCGCGAG  CCCCGCCTGG CCTTCCCCGA GGAGAACAAC TCCTCCCTGA AGAAGATCCC
     6961 CAAGCTGGAG  GACCCCGCCC AGTACTCCAT GCTGGAGCTG AAGCCCCGCC GCGCCGACCT
     7021 GGACATGAAC  CAGCACGTGA ACAACGTGAC CTACATCGGC TGGGTGCTGG AGTCCATCCC
     7081 CCAGGAGATC  ATCGACACCC ACGAGCTGCA GGTGATCACC CTGGACTACC GCCGCGAGTG
     7141 CCAGCAGGAC  GACATCGTGG ACTCCCTGAC CACCTCCGAG ATCCCCGACG ACCCCATCTC
     7201 CAAGTTCACC  GGCACCAACG GCTCCGCCAT GTCCTCCATC CAGGGCCACA ACGAGTCCCA
     7261 GTTCCTGCAC  ATGCTGCGCC TGTCCGAGAA CGGCCAGGAG ATCAACCGCG GCCGCACCCA
     7321 GTGGCGCAAG  AAGTCCTCCC GCATGGACTA CAAGGACCAC GACGGCGACT ACAAGGACCA
     7381 CGACATCGAC  TACAAGGACG ACGACGACAA GTGAATCGAT AGATCTCTTA AGGCAGCAGC
     7441 AGCTCGGATA  GTATCGACAC ACTCTGGACG CTGGTCGTGT GATGGACTGT TGCCGCCACA
     7501 CTTGCTGCCT  TGACCTGTGA ATATCCCTGC CGCTTTTATC AAACAGCCTC AGTGTGTTTG
     7561 ATCTTGTGTG  TACGCGCTTT TGCGAGTTGC TAGCTGCTTG TGCTATTTGC GAATACCACC
     7621 CCCAGCATCC  CCTTCCCTCG TTTCATATCG CTTGCATCCC AACCGCAACT TATCTACGCT
     7681 GTCCTGCTAT  CCCTCAGCGC TGCTCCTGCT CCTGCTCACT GCCCCTCGCA CAGCCTTGGT
     7741 TTGGGCTCCG  CCTGTATTCT CCTGGTACTG CAACCTGTAA ACCAGCACTG CAATGCTGAT
     7801 GCACGGGAAG  TAGTGGGATG GGAACACAAA TGGAAAGCTT AATTAAGAGC TCTTGTTTTC
     7861 CAGAAGGAGT  TGCTCCTTGA GCCTTTCATT CTCAGCCTCG ATAACCTCCA AAGCCGCTCT
     7921 AATTGTGGAG  GGGGTTCGAA TTTAAAAGCT TGGAATGTTG GTTCGTGCGT CTGGAACAAG
     7981 CCCAGACTTG  TTGCTCACTG GGAAAAGGAC CATCAGCTCC AAAAAACTTG CCGCTCAAAC
     8041 CGCGTACCTC  TGCTTTCGCG CAATCTGCCC TGTTGAAATC GCCACCACAT TCATATTGTG
     8101 ACGCTTGAGC  AGTCTGTAAT TGCCTCAGAA TGTGGAATCA TCTGCCCCCT GTGCGAGCCC
     8161 ATGCCAGGCA  TGTCGCGGGC GAGGACACCC GCCACTCGTA CAGCAGACCA TTATGCTACC
     8221 TCACAATAGT  TCATAACAGT GACCATATTT CTCGAAGCTC CCCAACGAGC ACCTCCATGC
     8281 TCTGAGTGGC  CACCCCCCGG CCCTGGTGCT TGCGGAGGGC AGGTCAACCG GCATGGGGCT
     8341 ACCGAAATCC  CCGACCGGAT CCCACCACCC CCGCGATGGG AAGAATCTCT CCCCGGGATG
     8401 TGGGCCCACC  ACCAGCACAA CCTGCTGGCC CAGGCGAGCG TCAAACCATA CCACACAAAT
     8461 ATCCTTGGCA  TCGGCCCTGA ATTCCTTCTG CCGCTCTGCT ACCCGGTGCT TCTGTCCGAA
     8521 GCAGGGGTTG  CTAGGGATCG CTCCGAGTCC GCAAACCCTT GTCGCGTGGC GGGGCTTGTT
     8581 CGAGCTTGAA  GAGCCTCTAG AGTCGACCTG CAGGCATGCA AGCTTGGCGT AATCATGGTC
     8641 ATAGCTGTTT  CCTGTGTGAA ATTGTTATCC GCTCACAATT CCACACAACA TACGAGCCGG
     8701 AAGCATAAAG  TGTAAAGCCT GGGGTGCCTA ATGAGTGAGC TAACTCACAT TAATTGCGTT
     8761 GCGCTCACTG  CCCGCTTTCC AGTCGGGAAA CCTGTCGTGC CAGCTGCATT AATGAATCGG
     8821 CC~.ACGCGCG GGGAGAGGCG GTTTGCGTAT TGGGCGCTCT TCCGCTTCCT CGCTCACTGA
     8881 CTCGCTGCGC  TCGGTCGTTC GGCTGCGGCG AGCGGTATCA GCTCACTCAA AGGCGGTAAT
     8941 ACGGTTATCC  ACAGAATCAG GGGATAACGC AGGAAAGAAC ATGTGAGCAA AAGGCCAGCA
     9001 AAAGGCCAGG  AACCGTAAAA AGGCCGCGTT GCTGGCGTTT TTCCATAGGC TCCGCCCCCC
     9061 TGACGAGCAT  CACAAAAATC GACGCTCAAG TCAGAGGTGG CGAAACCCGA CAGGACTATA
     9121 AAGATACCAG  GCGTTTCCCC CTGGAAGCTC CCTCGTGCGC TCTCCTGTTC CGACCCTGCC
     9181 GCTTACCGGA  TACCTGTCCG CCTTTCTCCC TTCGGGAAGC GTGGCGCTTT CTCATAGCTC
     9241 ACGCTGTAGG  TATCTCAGTT CGGTGTAGGT CGTTCGCTCC AAGCTGGGCT GTGTGCACGA
     9301 ACCCCCCGTT  CAGCCCGACC GCTGCGCCTT ATCCGGTAAC TATCGTCTTG AGTCCAACCC
     9361 GGTAAGACAC  GACTTATCGC
SEQ ID NO: 239
pSZ1451
        1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
                                      355

 721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
 781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
 841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
 901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
 961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
1021 CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
1081 TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
1141 GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
1201 TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
1261 GGP.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
1321 ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
1381 CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
1441 TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
1501 GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
1561 CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
1621 TTP.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
1681 CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
1741 ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
1801 GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
1861 AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCGCCGCCG CCACTCCTGC TCGAGCGCGC
1921 CCGCGCGTGC  GCCGCCAGCG CCTTGGCCTT TTCGCCGCGC TCGTGCGCGT CGCTGATGTC
1981 CATCACCAGG  TCCATGAGGT CTGCCTTGCG CCGGCTGAGC CACTGCTTCG TCCGGGCGGC
2041 CAAGAGGAGC  ATGAGGGAGG ACTCCTGGTC CAGGGTCCTG ACGTGGTCGC GGCTCTGGGA
2101 GCGGGCCAGC  ATCATCTGGC TCTGCCGCAC CGAGGCCGCC TCCAACTGGT CCTCCAGCAG
2161 CCGCAGTCGC  CGCCGACCCT GGCAGAGGAA GACAGGTGAG GGGGGTATGA ATTGTACAGA
2221 ACP.ACCACGA GCCTTGTCTA GGCAGAATCC CTACCAGTCA TGGCTTTACC TGGATGACGG
2281 CCTGCGAACA  GCTGTCCAGC GACCCTCGCT GCCGCCGCTT CTCCCGCACG CTTCTTTCCA
2341 GCACCGTGAT  GGCGCGAGCC AGCGCCGCAC GCTGGCGCTG CGCTTCGCCG ATCTGAGGAC
2401 AGTCGGGGAA  CTCTGATCAG TCTAAACCCC CTTGCGCGTT AGTGTTGCCA TCCTTTGCAG
2461 ACCGGTGAGA  GCCGACTTGT TGTGCGCCAC CCCCCACACC ACCTCCTCCC AGACCAATTC
2521 TGTCACCTTT  TTGGCGAAGG CATCGGCCTC GGCCTGCAGA GAGGACAGCA GTGCCCAGCC
2581 GCTGGGGGTT  GGCGGATGCA CGCTCAGGTA CCCTTTCTTG CGCTATGACA CTTCCAGCAA
2641 AAGGTAGGGC  GGGCTGCGAG ACGGCTTCCC GGCGCTGCAT GCAACACCGA TGATGCTTCG
2701 ACCCCCCGAA  GCTCCTTCGG GGCTGCATGG GCGCTCCGAT GCCGCTCCAG GGCGAGCGCT
2761 GTTTAAATAG  CCAGGCCCCC GATTGCAAAG ACATTATAGC GAGCTACCAA AGCCATATTC
2821 AAACACCTAG  ATCACTACCA CTTCTACACA GGCCACTCGA GCTTGTGATC GCACTCCGCT
2881 AAGGGGGCGC  CTCTTCCTCT TCGTTTCAGT CACAACCCGC AAACTCTAGA ATATCAATGC
2941 TGCTGCAGGC  CTTCCTGTTC CTGCTGGCCG GCTTCGCCGC CAAGATCAGC GCCTCCATGA
3001 CGP.ACGAGAC GTCCGACCGC CCCCTGGTGC ACTTCACCCC CAACAAGGGC TGGATGAACG
3061 ACCCCAACGG  CCTGTGGTAC GACGAGAAGG ACGCCAAGTG GCACCTGTAC TTCCAGTACA
3121 ACCCGAACGA  CACCGTCTGG GGGACGCCCT TGTTCTGGGG CCACGCCACG TCCGACGACC
3181 TGACCAACTG  GGAGGACCAG CCCATCGCCA TCGCCCCGAA GCGCAACGAC TCCGGCGCCT
3241 TCTCCGGCTC  CATGGTGGTG GACTACAACA ACACCTCCGG CTTCTTCAAC GACACCATCG
3301 ACCCGCGCCA  GCGCTGCGTG GCCATCTGGA CCTACAACAC CCCGGAGTCC GAGGAGCAGT
3361 ACATCTCCTA  CAGCCTGGAC GGCGGCTACA CCTTCACCGA GTACCAGAAG AACCCCGTGC
3421 TGGCCGCCAA  CTCCACCCAG TTCCGCGACC CGAAGGTCTT CTGGTACGAG CCCTCCCAGA
3481 AGTGGATCAT  GACCGCGGCC AAGTCCCAGG ACTACAAGAT CGAGATCTAC TCCTCCGACG
3541 ACCTGAAGTC  CTGGAAGCTG GAGTCCGCGT TCGCCAACGA GGGCTTCCTC GGCTACCAGT
3601 ACGAGTGCCC  CGGCCTGATC GAGGTCCCCA CCGAGCAGGA CCCCAGCAAG TCCTACTGGG
3661 TGATGTTCAT  CTCCATCAAC CCCGGCGCCC CGGCCGGCGG CTCCTTCAAC CAGTACTTCG
3721 TCGGCAGCTT  CAACGGCACC CACTTCGAGG CCTTCGACAA CCAGTCCCGC GTGGTGGACT
3781 TCGGCAAGGA  CTACTACGCC CTGCAGACCT TCTTCAACAC CGACCCGACC TACGGGAGCG
3841 CCCTGGGCAT  CGCGTGGGCC TCCAACTGGG AGTACTCCGC CTTCGTGCCC ACCAACCCCT
3901 GGCGCTCCTC  CATGTCCCTC GTGCGCAAGT TCTCCCTCAA CACCGAGTAC CAGGCCAACC
3961 CGGAGACGGA  GCTGATCAAC CTGAAGGCCG AGCCGATCCT GAACATCAGC AACGCCGGCC
4021 CCTGGAGCCG  GTTCGCCACC AACACCACGT TGACGAAGGC CAACAGCTAC AACGTCGACC
4081 TGTCCAACAG  CACCGGCACC CTGGAGTTCG AGCTGGTGTA CGCCGTCAAC ACCACCCAGA
4141 CGATCTCCAA  GTCCGTGTTC GCGGACCTCT CCCTCTGGTT CAAGGGCCTG GAGGACCCCG
4201 AGGAGTACCT  CCGCATGGGC TTCGAGGTGT CCGCGTCCTC CTTCTTCCTG GACCGCGGGA
4261 ACAGCAAGGT  GAAGTTCGTG AAGGAGAACC CCTACTTCAC CAACCGCATG AGCGTGAACA
4321 ACCAGCCCTT  CAAGAGCGAG AACGACCTGT CCTACTACAA GGTGTACGGC TTGCTGGACC
                                 356

4381 AGP.ACATCCT GGAGCTGTAC TTCAACGACG GCGACGTCGT GTCCACCAAC ACCTACTTCA
4441 TGACCACCGG  GAACGCCCTG GGCTCCGTGA ACATGACGAC GGGGGTGGAC AACCTGTTCT
4501 ACATCGACAA  GTTCCAGGTG CGCGAGGTCA AGTGACAATT GGCAGCAGCA GCTCGGATAG
4561 TATCGACACA  CTCTGGACGC TGGTCGTGTG ATGGACTGTT GCCGCCACAC TTGCTGCCTT
4621 GACCTGTGAA  TATCCCTGCC GCTTTTATCA AACAGCCTCA GTGTGTTTGA TCTTGTGTGT
4681 ACGCGCTTTT  GCGAGTTGCT AGCTGCTTGT GCTATTTGCG AATACCACCC CCAGCATCCC
4741 CTTCCCTCGT  TTCATATCGC TTGCATCCCA ACCGCAACTT ATCTACGCTG TCCTGCTATC
4801 CCTCAGCGCT  GCTCCTGCTC CTGCTCACTG CCCCTCGCAC AGCCTTGGTT TGGGCTCCGC
4861 CTGTATTCTC  CTGGTACTGC AACCTGTAAA CCAGCACTGC AATGCTGATG CACGGGAAGT
4921 AGTGGGATGG  GAACACAAAT GGAGGATCCC GCGTCTCGAA CAGAGCGCGC AGAGGAACGC
4981 TGP.AGGTCTC GCCTCTGTCG CACCTCAGCG CGGCATACAC CACAATAACC ACCTGACGAA
5041 TGCGCTTGGT  TCTTCGTCCA TTAGCGAAGC GTCCGGTTCA CACACGTGCC ACGTTGGCGA
5101 GGTGGCAGGT  GACAATGATC GGTGGAGCTG ATGGTCGAAA CGTTCACAGC CTAGGGATAT
5161 CGP.ATTCGGC CGACAGGACG CGCGTCAAAG GTGCTGGTCG TGTATGCCCT GGCCGGCAGG
5221 TCGTTGCTGC  TGCTGGTTAG TGATTCCGCA ACCCTGATTT TGGCGTCTTA TTTTGGCGTG
5281 GCP.AACGCTG GCGCCCGCGA GCCGGGCCGG CGGCGATGCG GTGCCCCACG GCTGCCGGAA
5341 TCCAAGGGAG  GCAAGAGCGC CCGGGTCAGT TGAAGGGCTT TACGCGCAAG GTACAGCCGC
5401 TCCTGCAAGG  CTGCGTGGTG GAATTGGACG TGCAGGTCCT GCTGAAGTTC CTCCACCGCC
5461 TCACCAGCGG  ACAAAGCACC GGTGTATCAG GTCCGTGTCA TCCACTCTAA AGAACTCGAC
5521 TACGACCTAC  TGATGGCCCT AGATTCTTCA TCAAAAACGC CTGAGACACT TGCCCAGGAT
5581 TGP.AACTCCC TGAAGGGACC ACCAGGGGCC CTGAGTTGTT CCTTCCCCCC GTGGCGAGCT
5641 GCCAGCCAGG  CTGTACCTGT GATCGAGGCT GGCGGGAAAA TAGGCTTCGT GTGCTCAGGT
5701 CATGGGAGGT  GCAGGACAGC TCATGAAACG CCAACAATCG CACAATTCAT GTCAAGCTAA
5761 TCAGCTATTT  CCTCTTCACG AGCTGTAATT GTCCCAAAAT TCTGGTCTAC CGGGGGTGAT
5821 CCTTCGTGTA  CGGGCCCTTC CCTCAACCCT AGGTATGCGC GCATGCGGTC GCCGCGCAAC
5881 TCGCGCGAGG  GCCGAGGGTT TGGGACGGGC CGTCCCGAAA TGCAGTTGCA CCCGGATGCG
5941 TGGCACCTTT  TTTGCGATAA TTTATGCAAT GGACTGCTCT GCAAAATTCT GGCTCTGTCG
6001 CCP.ACCCTAG GATCAGCGGC GTAGGATTTC GTAATCATTC GTCCTGATGG GGAGCTACCG
6061 ACTACCCTAA  TATCAGCCCG ACTGCCTGAC GCCAGCGTCC ACTTTTGTGC ACACATTCCA
6121 TTCGTGCCCA  AGACATTTCA TTGTGGTGCG AAGCGTCCCC AGTTACGCTC ACCTGTTTCC
6181 CGACCTCCTT  ACTGTTCTGT CGACAGAGCG GGCCCACAGG CCGGTCGCAG CCACTAGTAT
6241 GGCCACCGCA  TCCACTTTCT CGGCGTTCAA TGCCCGCTGC GGCGACCTGC GTCGCTCGGC
6301 GGGCTCCGGG  CCCCGGCGCC CAGCGAGGCC CCTCCCCGTG CGCGGGCGCG CCGCCACCGG
6361 CGAGCAGCCC  TCCGGCGTGG CCTCCCTGCG CGAGGCCGAC AAGGAGAAGT CCCTGGGCAA
6421 CCGCCTGCGC  CTGGGCTCCC TGACCGAGGA CGGCCTGTCC TACAAGGAGA AGTTCGTGAT
6481 CCGCTGCTAC  GAGGTGGGCA TCAACAAGAC CGCCACCATC GAGACCATCG CCAACCTGCT
6541 GCAGGAGGTG  GGCGGCAACC ACGCCCAGGG CGTGGGCTTC TCCACCGACG GCTTCGCCAC
6601 CACCACCACC  ATGCGCAAGC TGCACCTGAT CTGGGTGACC GCCCGCATGC ACATCGAGAT
6661 CTACCGCTAC  CCCGCCTGGT CCGACGTGAT CGAGATCGAG ACCTGGGTGC AGGGCGAGGG
6721 CAAGGTGGGC  ACCCGCCGCG ACTGGATCCT GAAGGACTAC GCCAACGGCG AGGTGATCGG
6781 CCGCGCCACC  TCCAAGTGGG TGATGATGAA CGAGGACACC CGCCGCCTGC AGAAGGTGTC
6841 CGACGACGTG  CGCGAGGAGT ACCTGGTGTT CTGCCCCCGC ACCCTGCGCC TGGCCTTCCC
6901 CGAGGAGAAC  AACAACTCCA TGAAGAAGAT CCCCAAGCTG GAGGACCCCG CCGAGTACTC
6961 CCGCCTGGGC  CTGGTGCCCC GCCGCTCCGA CCTGGACATG AACAAGCACG TGAACAACGT
7021 GACCTACATC  GGCTGGGCCC TGGAGTCCAT CCCCCCCGAG ATCATCGACA CCCACGAGCT
7081 GCAGGCCATC  ACCCTGGACT ACCGCCGCGA GTGCCAGCGC GACGACATCG TGGACTCCCT
7141 GACCTCCCGC  GAGCCCCTGG GCAACGCCGC CGGCGTGAAG TTCAAGGAGA TCAACGGCTC
7201 CGTGTCCCCC  AAGAAGGACG AGCAGGACCT GTCCCGCTTC ATGCACCTGC TGCGCTCCGC
7261 CGGCTCCGGC  CTGGAGATCA ACCGCTGCCG CACCGAGTGG CGCAAGAAGC CCGCCAAGCG
7321 CATGGACTAC  AAGGACCACG ACGGCGACTA CAAGGACCAC GACATCGACT ACAAGGACGA
7381 CGACGACAAG  TGAATCGATA GATCTCTTAA GGCAGCAGCA GCTCGGATAG TATCGACACA
7441 CTCTGGACGC  TGGTCGTGTG ATGGACTGTT GCCGCCACAC TTGCTGCCTT GACCTGTGAA
7501 TATCCCTGCC  GCTTTTATCA AACAGCCTCA GTGTGTTTGA TCTTGTGTGT ACGCGCTTTT
7561 GCGAGTTGCT  AGCTGCTTGT GCTATTTGCG AATACCACCC CCAGCATCCC CTTCCCTCGT
7621 TTCATATCGC  TTGCATCCCA ACCGCAACTT ATCTACGCTG TCCTGCTATC CCTCAGCGCT
7681 GCTCCTGCTC  CTGCTCACTG CCCCTCGCAC AGCCTTGGTT TGGGCTCCGC CTGTATTCTC
7741 CTGGTACTGC  AACCTGTAAA CCAGCACTGC AATGCTGATG CACGGGAAGT AGTGGGATGG
7801 GAACACAAAT  GGAAAGCTTA ATTAAGAGCT CTTGTTTTCC AGAAGGAGTT GCTCCTTGAG
7861 CCTTTCATTC  TCAGCCTCGA TAACCTCCAA AGCCGCTCTA ATTGTGGAGG GGGTTCGAAT
7921 TTP.AAAGCTT GGAATGTTGG TTCGTGCGTC TGGAACAAGC CCAGACTTGT TGCTCACTGG
7981 GAP.AAGGACC ATCAGCTCCA AAAAACTTGC CGCTCAAACC GCGTACCTCT GCTTTCGCGC
                                 357

     8041 AATCTGCCCT  GTTGAAATCG CCACCACATT CATATTGTGA CGCTTGAGCA GTCTGTAATT
     8101 GCCTCAGAAT  GTGGAATCAT CTGCCCCCTG TGCGAGCCCA TGCCAGGCAT GTCGCGGGCG
     8161 AGGACACCCG  CCACTCGTAC AGCAGACCAT TATGCTACCT CACAATAGTT CATAACAGTG
     8221 ACCATATTTC  TCGAAGCTCC CCAACGAGCA CCTCCATGCT CTGAGTGGCC ACCCCCCGGC
     8281 CCTGGTGCTT  GCGGAGGGCA GGTCAACCGG CATGGGGCTA CCGAAATCCC CGACCGGATC
     8341 CCACCACCCC  CGCGATGGGA AGAATCTCTC CCCGGGATGT GGGCCCACCA CCAGCACAAC
     8401 CTGCTGGCCC  AGGCGAGCGT CAAACCATAC CACACAAATA TCCTTGGCAT CGGCCCTGAA
     8461 TTCCTTCTGC  CGCTCTGCTA CCCGGTGCTT CTGTCCGAAG CAGGGGTTGC TAGGGATCGC
     8521 TCCGAGTCCG  CAAACCCTTG TCGCGTGGCG GGGCTTGTTC GAGCTTGAAG AGCCTCTAGA
     8581 GTCGACCTGC  AGGCATGCAA GCTTGGCGTA ATCATGGTCA TAGCTGTTTC CTGTGTGAAA
     8641 TTGTTATCCG  CTCACAATTC CACACAACAT ACGAGCCGGA AGCATAAAGT GTAAAGCCTG
     8701 GGGTGCCTAA  TGAGTGAGCT AACTCACATT AATTGCGTTG CGCTCACTGC CCGCTTTCCA
     8761 GTCGGGAAAC  CTGTCGTGCC AGCTGCATTA ATGAATCGGC CAACGCGCGG GGAGAGGCGG
     8821 TTTGCGTATT  GGGCGCTCTT CCGCTTCCTC GCTCACTGAC TCGCTGCGCT CGGTCGTTCG
     8881 GCTGCGGCGA  GCGGTATCAG CTCACTCAAA GGCGGTAATA CGGTTATCCA CAGAATCAGG
     8941 GGATAACGCA  GGAAAGAACA TGTGAGCAAA AGGCCAGCAA AAGGCCAGGA ACCGTAAAAA
     9001 GGCCGCGTTG  CTGGCGTTTT TCCATAGGCT CCGCCCCCCT GACGAGCATC ACAAAAATCG
     9061 ACGCTCAAGT  CAGAGGTGGC GAAACCCGAC AGGACTATAA AGATACCAGG CGTTTCCCCC
     9121 TGGAAGCTCC  CTCGTGCGCT CTCCTGTTCC GACCCTGCCG CTTACCGGAT ACCTGTCCGC
     9181 CTTTCTCCCT  TCGGGAAGCG TGGCGCTTTC TCATAGCTCA CGCTGTAGGT ATCTCAGTTC
     9241 GGTGTAGGTC  GTTCGCTCCA AGCTGGGCTG TGTGCACGAA CCCCCCGTTC AGCCCGACCG
     9301 CTGCGCCTTA  TCCGGTAACT ATCGTCTTGA GTCCAACCCG GTAAGACACG ACTTATCGC
SEQ ID NO: 240
pSZ1452
        1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
      841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
      901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
      961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
     1021 CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
     1081 TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
     1141 GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
     1201 TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
     1261 GG~.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
     1321 ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
     1381 CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
     1441 TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
     1501 GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
     1561 CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
     1621 TT~.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
     1681 CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
     1741 ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
     1801 GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
     1861 AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCGCCGCCG CCACTCCTGC TCGAGCGCGC
     1921 CCGCGCGTGC  GCCGCCAGCG CCTTGGCCTT TTCGCCGCGC TCGTGCGCGT CGCTGATGTC
     1981 CATCACCAGG  TCCATGAGGT CTGCCTTGCG CCGGCTGAGC CACTGCTTCG TCCGGGCGGC
                                      358

2041 CAAGAGGAGC ATGAGGGAGG ACTCCTGGTC CAGGGTCCTG ACGTGGTCGC GGCTCTGGGA
2101 GCGGGCCAGC ATCATCTGGC TCTGCCGCAC CGAGGCCGCC TCCAACTGGT CCTCCAGCAG
2161 CCGCAGTCGC CGCCGACCCT GGCAGAGGAA GACAGGTGAG GGGGGTATGA ATTGTACAGA
2221 ACPACCACGA GCCTTGTCTA GGCAGAATCC CTACCAGTCA TGGCTTTACC TGGATGACGG
2281 CCTGCGAACA GCTGTCCAGC GACCCTCGCT GCCGCCGCTT CTCCCGCACG CTTCTTTCCA
2341 GCACCGTGAT GGCGCGAGCC AGCGCCGCAC GCTGGCGCTG CGCTTCGCCG ATCTGAGGAC
2401 AGTCGGGGAA CTCTGATCAG TCTAAACCCC CTTGCGCGTT AGTGTTGCCA TCCTTTGCAG
2461 ACCGGTGAGA GCCGACTTGT TGTGCGCCAC CCCCCACACC ACCTCCTCCC AGACCAATTC
2521 TGTCACCTTT TTGGCGAAGG CATCGGCCTC GGCCTGCAGA GAGGACAGCA GTGCCCAGCC
2581 GCTGGGGGTT GGCGGATGCA CGCTCAGGTA CCCTTTCTTG CGCTATGACA CTTCCAGCAA
2641 AAGGTAGGGC GGGCTGCGAG ACGGCTTCCC GGCGCTGCAT GCAACACCGA TGATGCTTCG
2701 ACCCCCCGAA GCTCCTTCGG GGCTGCATGG GCGCTCCGAT GCCGCTCCAG GGCGAGCGCT
2761 GTTTAAATAG CCAGGCCCCC GATTGCAAAG ACATTATAGC GAGCTACCAA AGCCATATTC
2821 AAACACCTAG ATCACTACCA CTTCTACACA GGCCACTCGA GCTTGTGATC GCACTCCGCT
2881 AAGGGGGCGC CTCTTCCTCT TCGTTTCAGT CACAACCCGC AAACTCTAGA ATATCAATGC
2941 TGCTGCAGGC CTTCCTGTTC CTGCTGGCCG GCTTCGCCGC CAAGATCAGC GCCTCCATGA
3001 CGPACGAGAC GTCCGACCGC CCCCTGGTGC ACTTCACCCC CAACAAGGGC TGGATGAACG
3061 ACCCCAACGG CCTGTGGTAC GACGAGAAGG ACGCCAAGTG GCACCTGTAC TTCCAGTACA
3121 ACCCGAACGA CACCGTCTGG GGGACGCCCT TGTTCTGGGG CCACGCCACG TCCGACGACC
3181 TGACCAACTG GGAGGACCAG CCCATCGCCA TCGCCCCGAA GCGCAACGAC TCCGGCGCCT
3241 TCTCCGGCTC CATGGTGGTG GACTACAACA ACACCTCCGG CTTCTTCAAC GACACCATCG
3301 ACCCGCGCCA GCGCTGCGTG GCCATCTGGA CCTACAACAC CCCGGAGTCC GAGGAGCAGT
3361 ACATCTCCTA CAGCCTGGAC GGCGGCTACA CCTTCACCGA GTACCAGAAG AACCCCGTGC
3421 TGGCCGCCAA CTCCACCCAG TTCCGCGACC CGAAGGTCTT CTGGTACGAG CCCTCCCAGA
3481 AGTGGATCAT GACCGCGGCC AAGTCCCAGG ACTACAAGAT CGAGATCTAC TCCTCCGACG
3541 ACCTGAAGTC CTGGAAGCTG GAGTCCGCGT TCGCCAACGA GGGCTTCCTC GGCTACCAGT
3601 ACGAGTGCCC CGGCCTGATC GAGGTCCCCA CCGAGCAGGA CCCCAGCAAG TCCTACTGGG
3661 TGATGTTCAT CTCCATCAAC CCCGGCGCCC CGGCCGGCGG CTCCTTCAAC CAGTACTTCG
3721 TCGGCAGCTT CAACGGCACC CACTTCGAGG CCTTCGACAA CCAGTCCCGC GTGGTGGACT
3781 TCGGCAAGGA CTACTACGCC CTGCAGACCT TCTTCAACAC CGACCCGACC TACGGGAGCG
3841 CCCTGGGCAT CGCGTGGGCC TCCAACTGGG AGTACTCCGC CTTCGTGCCC ACCAACCCCT
3901 GGCGCTCCTC CATGTCCCTC GTGCGCAAGT TCTCCCTCAA CACCGAGTAC CAGGCCAACC
3961 CGGAGACGGA GCTGATCAAC CTGAAGGCCG AGCCGATCCT GAACATCAGC AACGCCGGCC
4021 CCTGGAGCCG GTTCGCCACC AACACCACGT TGACGAAGGC CAACAGCTAC AACGTCGACC
4081 TGTCCAACAG CACCGGCACC CTGGAGTTCG AGCTGGTGTA CGCCGTCAAC ACCACCCAGA
4141 CGATCTCCAA GTCCGTGTTC GCGGACCTCT CCCTCTGGTT CAAGGGCCTG GAGGACCCCG
4201 AGGAGTACCT CCGCATGGGC TTCGAGGTGT CCGCGTCCTC CTTCTTCCTG GACCGCGGGA
4261 ACAGCAAGGT GAAGTTCGTG AAGGAGAACC CCTACTTCAC CAACCGCATG AGCGTGAACA
4321 ACCAGCCCTT CAAGAGCGAG AACGACCTGT CCTACTACAA GGTGTACGGC TTGCTGGACC
4381 AGPACATCCT GGAGCTGTAC TTCAACGACG GCGACGTCGT GTCCACCAAC ACCTACTTCA
4441 TGACCACCGG GAACGCCCTG GGCTCCGTGA ACATGACGAC GGGGGTGGAC AACCTGTTCT
4501 ACATCGACAA GTTCCAGGTG CGCGAGGTCA AGTGACAATT GGCAGCAGCA GCTCGGATAG
4561 TATCGACACA CTCTGGACGC TGGTCGTGTG ATGGACTGTT GCCGCCACAC TTGCTGCCTT
4621 GACCTGTGAA TATCCCTGCC GCTTTTATCA AACAGCCTCA GTGTGTTTGA TCTTGTGTGT
4681 ACGCGCTTTT GCGAGTTGCT AGCTGCTTGT GCTATTTGCG AATACCACCC CCAGCATCCC
4741 CTTCCCTCGT TTCATATCGC TTGCATCCCA ACCGCAACTT ATCTACGCTG TCCTGCTATC
4801 CCTCAGCGCT GCTCCTGCTC CTGCTCACTG CCCCTCGCAC AGCCTTGGTT TGGGCTCCGC
4861 CTGTATTCTC CTGGTACTGC AACCTGTAAA CCAGCACTGC AATGCTGATG CACGGGAAGT
4921 AGTGGGATGG GAACACAAAT GGAGGATCCC GCGTCTCGAA CAGAGCGCGC AGAGGAACGC
4981 TGPAGGTCTC GCCTCTGTCG CACCTCAGCG CGGCATACAC CACAATAACC ACCTGACGAA
5041 TGCGCTTGGT TCTTCGTCCA TTAGCGAAGC GTCCGGTTCA CACACGTGCC ACGTTGGCGA
5101 GGTGGCAGGT GACAATGATC GGTGGAGCTG ATGGTCGAAA CGTTCACAGC CTAGGGATAT
5161 CGPATTCGGC CGACAGGACG CGCGTCAAAG GTGCTGGTCG TGTATGCCCT GGCCGGCAGG
5221 TCGTTGCTGC TGCTGGTTAG TGATTCCGCA ACCCTGATTT TGGCGTCTTA TTTTGGCGTG
5281 GCPAACGCTG GCGCCCGCGA GCCGGGCCGG CGGCGATGCG GTGCCCCACG GCTGCCGGAA
5341 TCCAAGGGAG GCAAGAGCGC CCGGGTCAGT TGAAGGGCTT TACGCGCAAG GTACAGCCGC
5401 TCCTGCAAGG CTGCGTGGTG GAATTGGACG TGCAGGTCCT GCTGAAGTTC CTCCACCGCC
5461 TCACCAGCGG ACAAAGCACC GGTGTATCAG GTCCGTGTCA TCCACTCTAA AGAACTCGAC
5521 TACGACCTAC TGATGGCCCT AGATTCTTCA TCAAAAACGC CTGAGACACT TGCCCAGGAT
5581 TGPAACTCCC TGAAGGGACC ACCAGGGGCC CTGAGTTGTT CCTTCCCCCC GTGGCGAGCT
5641 GCCAGCCAGG CTGTACCTGT GATCGAGGCT GGCGGGAAAA TAGGCTTCGT GTGCTCAGGT
                                359

5701 CATGGGAGGT  GCAGGACAGC TCATGAAACG CCAACAATCG CACAATTCAT GTCAAGCTAA
5761 TCAGCTATTT  CCTCTTCACG AGCTGTAATT GTCCCAAAAT TCTGGTCTAC CGGGGGTGAT
5821 CCTTCGTGTA  CGGGCCCTTC CCTCAACCCT AGGTATGCGC GCATGCGGTC GCCGCGCAAC
5881 TCGCGCGAGG  GCCGAGGGTT TGGGACGGGC CGTCCCGAAA TGCAGTTGCA CCCGGATGCG
5941 TGGCACCTTT  TTTGCGATAA TTTATGCAAT GGACTGCTCT GCAAAATTCT GGCTCTGTCG
6001 CCP.ACCCTAG GATCAGCGGC GTAGGATTTC GTAATCATTC GTCCTGATGG GGAGCTACCG
6061 ACTACCCTAA  TATCAGCCCG ACTGCCTGAC GCCAGCGTCC ACTTTTGTGC ACACATTCCA
6121 TTCGTGCCCA  AGACATTTCA TTGTGGTGCG AAGCGTCCCC AGTTACGCTC ACCTGTTTCC
6181 CGACCTCCTT  ACTGTTCTGT CGACAGAGCG GGCCCACAGG CCGGTCGCAG CCACTAGTAT
6241 GGCCACCGCA  TCCACTTTCT CGGCGTTCAA TGCCCGCTGC GGCGACCTGC GTCGCTCGGC
6301 GGGCTCCGGG  CCCCGGCGCC CAGCGAGGCC CCTCCCCGTG CGCGGGCGCG CCGCCAACGC
6361 CCAGGCCCCC  ACCAAGATCA ACGGCTCCAC CGACGACGCC CAGCTGCCCG CCCCCCGCAC
6421 CTTCATCAAC  CAGCTGCCCG ACTGGTCCAT GCTGCTGGCC GCCATCACCA CCGTGTTCCT
6481 GGCCGCCGAG  AAGCAGTGGA TGATGCTGGA CTGGAAGCCC CGCCGCCCCG ACATGCTGAT
6541 CGACACCTTC  GGCCTGGGCC GCATCGTGCA GGACGGCCTG GTGTTCCGCC AGAACTTCTC
6601 CATCCGCTCC  TACGAGATCG GCGCCGACCG CACCGCCTCC ATCGAGACCG TGATGAACCA
6661 CCTGCAGGAG  ACCGCCCTGA ACCACGTGAA GACCGCCGGC CTGCTGGGCG ACGGCTTCGG
6721 CTCCACCCCC  GAGATGTCCA AGCGCAACCT GATCTGGGTG GTGACCAAGA TGCAGGTGGA
6781 GGTGGACCGC  TACCCCACCT GGGGCGACGT GGTGCAGGTG GACACCTGGG TGTCCGCCTC
6841 CGGCAAGAAC  GGCATGCGCC GCGACTGGCT GCTGCGCGAC GGCAACACCG GCGAGACCCT
6901 GACCCGCGCC  TCCTCCGTGT GGGTGATGAT GAACAAGCTG ACCCGCCGCC TGTCCAAGAT
6961 CCCCGAGGAG  GTGCGCGAGG AGATCGGCTC CTACTTCGTG AACTCCGACC CCGTGGTGGA
7021 GGAGGACGGC  CGCAAGGTGA CCAAGCTGGA CGACAACACC GCCGACTTCG TGCGCAAGGG
7081 CCTGACCCCC  AAGTGGAACG ACCTGGACAT CAACCAGCAC GTGAACAACG TGAAGTACAT
7141 CGGCTGGATC  CTGGAGTCCG CCCCCCAGCC CATCCTGGAG ACCCGCGAGC TGTCCGCCGT
7201 GACCCTGGAG  TACCGCCGCG AGTGCGGCCG CGACTCCGTG CTGCGCTCCC TGACCGCCGT
7261 GTCCGGCGGC  GGCGTGGGCG ACCTGGGCCA CGCCGGCAAC GTGGAGTGCC AGCACGTGCT
7321 GCGCCTGGAG  GACGGCGCCG AGATCGTGCG CGGCCGCACC GAGTGGCGCC CCAAGTACAT
7381 CAACAACTTC  TCCATCATGG GCCAGATCCC CACCGACGCC TCCATGGACT ACAAGGACCA
7441 CGACGGCGAC  TACAAGGACC ACGACATCGA CTACAAGGAC GACGACGACA AGTGAATCGA
7501 TAGATCTCTT  AAGGCAGCAG CAGCTCGGAT AGTATCGACA CACTCTGGAC GCTGGTCGTG
7561 TGATGGACTG  TTGCCGCCAC ACTTGCTGCC TTGACCTGTG AATATCCCTG CCGCTTTTAT
7621 CAP.ACAGCCT CAGTGTGTTT GATCTTGTGT GTACGCGCTT TTGCGAGTTG CTAGCTGCTT
7681 GTGCTATTTG  CGAATACCAC CCCCAGCATC CCCTTCCCTC GTTTCATATC GCTTGCATCC
7741 CAACCGCAAC  TTATCTACGC TGTCCTGCTA TCCCTCAGCG CTGCTCCTGC TCCTGCTCAC
7801 TGCCCCTCGC  ACAGCCTTGG TTTGGGCTCC GCCTGTATTC TCCTGGTACT GCAACCTGTA
7861 AACCAGCACT  GCAATGCTGA TGCACGGGAA GTAGTGGGAT GGGAACACAA ATGGAAAGCT
7921 TAATTAAGAG  CTCTTGTTTT CCAGAAGGAG TTGCTCCTTG AGCCTTTCAT TCTCAGCCTC
7981 GATAACCTCC  AAAGCCGCTC TAATTGTGGA GGGGGTTCGA ATTTAAAAGC TTGGAATGTT
8041 GGTTCGTGCG  TCTGGAACAA GCCCAGACTT GTTGCTCACT GGGAAAAGGA CCATCAGCTC
8101 CAP.AAAACTT GCCGCTCAAA CCGCGTACCT CTGCTTTCGC GCAATCTGCC CTGTTGAAAT
8161 CGCCACCACA  TTCATATTGT GACGCTTGAG CAGTCTGTAA TTGCCTCAGA ATGTGGAATC
8221 ATCTGCCCCC  TGTGCGAGCC CATGCCAGGC ATGTCGCGGG CGAGGACACC CGCCACTCGT
8281 ACAGCAGACC  ATTATGCTAC CTCACAATAG TTCATAACAG TGACCATATT TCTCGAAGCT
8341 CCCCAACGAG  CACCTCCATG CTCTGAGTGG CCACCCCCCG GCCCTGGTGC TTGCGGAGGG
8401 CAGGTCAACC  GGCATGGGGC TACCGAAATC CCCGACCGGA TCCCACCACC CCCGCGATGG
8461 GAAGAATCTC  TCCCCGGGAT GTGGGCCCAC CACCAGCACA ACCTGCTGGC CCAGGCGAGC
8521 GTCAAACCAT  ACCACACAAA TATCCTTGGC ATCGGCCCTG AATTCCTTCT GCCGCTCTGC
8581 TACCCGGTGC  TTCTGTCCGA AGCAGGGGTT GCTAGGGATC GCTCCGAGTC CGCAAACCCT
8641 TGTCGCGTGG  CGGGGCTTGT TCGAGCTTGA AGAGCCTCTA GAGTCGACCT GCAGGCATGC
8701 AAGCTTGGCG  TAATCATGGT CATAGCTGTT TCCTGTGTGA AATTGTTATC CGCTCACAAT
8761 TCCACACAAC  ATACGAGCCG GAAGCATAAA GTGTAAAGCC TGGGGTGCCT AATGAGTGAG
8821 CTP.ACTCACA TTAATTGCGT TGCGCTCACT GCCCGCTTTC CAGTCGGGAA ACCTGTCGTG
8881 CCAGCTGCAT  TAATGAATCG GCCAACGCGC GGGGAGAGGC GGTTTGCGTA TTGGGCGCTC
8941 TTCCGCTTCC  TCGCTCACTG ACTCGCTGCG CTCGGTCGTT CGGCTGCGGC GAGCGGTATC
9001 AGCTCACTCA  AAGGCGGTAA TACGGTTATC CACAGAATCA GGGGATAACG CAGGAAAGAA
9061 CATGTGAGCA  AAAGGCCAGC AAAAGGCCAG GAACCGTAAA AAGGCCGCGT TGCTGGCGTT
9121 TTTCCATAGG  CTCCGCCCCC CTGACGAGCA TCACAAAAAT CGACGCTCAA GTCAGAGGTG
9181 GCGAAACCCG  ACAGGACTAT AAAGATACCA GGCGTTTCCC CCTGGAAGCT CCCTCGTGCG
9241 CTCTCCTGTT  CCGACCCTGC CGCTTACCGG ATACCTGTCC GCCTTTCTCC CTTCGGGAAG
9301 CGTGGCGCTT  TCTCATAGCT CACGCTGTAG GTATCTCAGT TCGGTGTAGG TCGTTCGCTC
                                 360

     9361 CAAGCTGGGC TGTGTGCACG AACCCCCCGT TCAGCCCGAC CGCTGCGCCT TATCCGGTAA
     9421 CTATCGTCTT GAGTCCAACC CGGTAAGACA CGACTTATCG C
SEQ ID NO: 241
pSZ1493
        1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
      841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
      901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
      961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
     1021 CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
     1081 TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
     1141 GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
     1201 TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
     1261 GGP.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
     1321 ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
     1381 CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
     1441 TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
     1501 GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
     1561 CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
     1621 TTP.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
     1681 CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
     1741 ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
     1801 GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
     1861 AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCCGCCTGG AGCTGGTGCA GAGCATGGGG
     1921 CAGTTTGCGG  AGGAGAGGGT GCTCCCCGTG CTGCACCCCG TGGACAAGCT GTGGCAGCCG
     1981 CAGGACTTCC  TGCCCGACCC CGAGTCGCCC GACTTCGAGG ACCAGGTGGC GGAGCTGCGC
     2041 GCGCGCGCCA  AGGACCTGCC CGACGAGTAC TTTGTGGTGC TGGTGGGCGA CATGATCACG
     2101 GAGGAGGCGC  TGCCGACCTA CATGGCCATG CTCAACACCT TGGACGGTGT GCGCGACGAC
     2161 ACGGGCGCGG  CTGACCACCC GTGGGCGCGC TGGACGCGGC AGTGGGTGGC CGAGGAGAAC
     2221 CGGCACGGCG  ACCTGCTGAA CAAGTACTGT TGGCTGACGG GGCGCGTCAA CATGCGGGCC
     2281 GTGGAGGTGA  CCATCAACAA CCTGATCAAG AGCGGCATGA ACCCGCAGAC GGACAACAAC
     2341 CCTTACTTGG  GCTTCGTCTA CACCTCCTTC CAGGAGCGCG CCACCAAGTA GGTACCCTTT
     2401 CTTGCGCTAT  GACACTTCCA GCAAAAGGTA GGGCGGGCTG CGAGACGGCT TCCCGGCGCT
     2461 GCATGCAACA  CCGATGATGC TTCGACCCCC CGAAGCTCCT TCGGGGCTGC ATGGGCGCTC
     2521 CGATGCCGCT  CCAGGGCGAG CGCTGTTTAA ATAGCCAGGC CCCCGATTGC AAAGACATTA
     2581 TAGCGAGCTA  CCAAAGCCAT ATTCAAACAC CTAGATCACT ACCACTTCTA CACAGGCCAC
     2641 TCGAGCTTGT  GATCGCACTC CGCTAAGGGG GCGCCTCTTC CTCTTCGTTT CAGTCACAAC
     2701 CCGCAAACTC  TAGAATATCA ATGCTGCTGC AGGCCTTCCT GTTCCTGCTG GCCGGCTTCG
     2761 CCGCCAAGAT  CAGCGCCTCC ATGACGAACG AGACGTCCGA CCGCCCCCTG GTGCACTTCA
     2821 CCCCCAACAA  GGGCTGGATG AACGACCCCA ACGGCCTGTG GTACGACGAG AAGGACGCCA
     2881 AGTGGCACCT  GTACTTCCAG TACAACCCGA ACGACACCGT CTGGGGGACG CCCTTGTTCT
     2941 GGGGCCACGC  CACGTCCGAC GACCTGACCA ACTGGGAGGA CCAGCCCATC GCCATCGCCC
     3001 CGP.AGCGCAA CGACTCCGGC GCCTTCTCCG GCTCCATGGT GGTGGACTAC AACAACACCT
     3061 CCGGCTTCTT  CAACGACACC ATCGACCCGC GCCAGCGCTG CGTGGCCATC TGGACCTACA
     3121 ACACCCCGGA  GTCCGAGGAG CAGTACATCT CCTACAGCCT GGACGGCGGC TACACCTTCA
     3181 CCGAGTACCA  GAAGAACCCC GTGCTGGCCG CCAACTCCAC CCAGTTCCGC GACCCGAAGG
                                      361

3241 TCTTCTGGTA  CGAGCCCTCC CAGAAGTGGA TCATGACCGC GGCCAAGTCC CAGGACTACA
3301 AGATCGAGAT  CTACTCCTCC GACGACCTGA AGTCCTGGAA GCTGGAGTCC GCGTTCGCCA
3361 ACGAGGGCTT  CCTCGGCTAC CAGTACGAGT GCCCCGGCCT GATCGAGGTC CCCACCGAGC
3421 AGGACCCCAG  CAAGTCCTAC TGGGTGATGT TCATCTCCAT CAACCCCGGC GCCCCGGCCG
3481 GCGGCTCCTT  CAACCAGTAC TTCGTCGGCA GCTTCAACGG CACCCACTTC GAGGCCTTCG
3541 ACP.ACCAGTC CCGCGTGGTG GACTTCGGCA AGGACTACTA CGCCCTGCAG ACCTTCTTCA
3601 ACACCGACCC  GACCTACGGG AGCGCCCTGG GCATCGCGTG GGCCTCCAAC TGGGAGTACT
3661 CCGCCTTCGT  GCCCACCAAC CCCTGGCGCT CCTCCATGTC CCTCGTGCGC AAGTTCTCCC
3721 TCP.ACACCGA GTACCAGGCC AACCCGGAGA CGGAGCTGAT CAACCTGAAG GCCGAGCCGA
3781 TCCTGAACAT  CAGCAACGCC GGCCCCTGGA GCCGGTTCGC CACCAACACC ACGTTGACGA
3841 AGGCCAACAG  CTACAACGTC GACCTGTCCA ACAGCACCGG CACCCTGGAG TTCGAGCTGG
3901 TGTACGCCGT  CAACACCACC CAGACGATCT CCAAGTCCGT GTTCGCGGAC CTCTCCCTCT
3961 GGTTCAAGGG  CCTGGAGGAC CCCGAGGAGT ACCTCCGCAT GGGCTTCGAG GTGTCCGCGT
4021 CCTCCTTCTT  CCTGGACCGC GGGAACAGCA AGGTGAAGTT CGTGAAGGAG AACCCCTACT
4081 TCACCAACCG  CATGAGCGTG AACAACCAGC CCTTCAAGAG CGAGAACGAC CTGTCCTACT
4141 ACP.AGGTGTA CGGCTTGCTG GACCAGAACA TCCTGGAGCT GTACTTCAAC GACGGCGACG
4201 TCGTGTCCAC  CAACACCTAC TTCATGACCA CCGGGAACGC CCTGGGCTCC GTGAACATGA
4261 CGACGGGGGT  GGACAACCTG TTCTACATCG ACAAGTTCCA GGTGCGCGAG GTCAAGTGAC
4321 AATTGGCAGC  AGCAGCTCGG ATAGTATCGA CACACTCTGG ACGCTGGTCG TGTGATGGAC
4381 TGTTGCCGCC  ACACTTGCTG CCTTGACCTG TGAATATCCC TGCCGCTTTT ATCAAACAGC
4441 CTCAGTGTGT  TTGATCTTGT GTGTACGCGC TTTTGCGAGT TGCTAGCTGC TTGTGCTATT
4501 TGCGAATACC  ACCCCCAGCA TCCCCTTCCC TCGTTTCATA TCGCTTGCAT CCCAACCGCA
4561 ACTTATCTAC  GCTGTCCTGC TATCCCTCAG CGCTGCTCCT GCTCCTGCTC ACTGCCCCTC
4621 GCACAGCCTT  GGTTTGGGCT CCGCCTGTAT TCTCCTGGTA CTGCAACCTG TAAACCAGCA
4681 CTGCAATGCT  GATGCACGGG AAGTAGTGGG ATGGGAACAC AAATGGAGGA TCCCGCGTCT
4741 CGP.ACAGAGC GCGCAGAGGA ACGCTGAAGG TCTCGCCTCT GTCGCACCTC AGCGCGGCAT
4801 ACACCACAAT  AACCACCTGA CGAATGCGCT TGGTTCTTCG TCCATTAGCG AAGCGTCCGG
4861 TTCACACACG  TGCCACGTTG GCGAGGTGGC AGGTGACAAT GATCGGTGGA GCTGATGGTC
4921 GAP.ACGTTCA CAGCCTAGGG ATATCGAATT CGGCCGACAG GACGCGCGTC AAAGGTGCTG
4981 GTCGTGTATG  CCCTGGCCGG CAGGTCGTTG CTGCTGCTGG TTAGTGATTC CGCAACCCTG
5041 ATTTTGGCGT  CTTATTTTGG CGTGGCAAAC GCTGGCGCCC GCGAGCCGGG CCGGCGGCGA
5101 TGCGGTGCCC  CACGGCTGCC GGAATCCAAG GGAGGCAAGA GCGCCCGGGT CAGTTGAAGG
5161 GCTTTACGCG  CAAGGTACAG CCGCTCCTGC AAGGCTGCGT GGTGGAATTG GACGTGCAGG
5221 TCCTGCTGAA  GTTCCTCCAC CGCCTCACCA GCGGACAAAG CACCGGTGTA TCAGGTCCGT
5281 GTCATCCACT  CTAAAGAACT CGACTACGAC CTACTGATGG CCCTAGATTC TTCATCAAAA
5341 ACGCCTGAGA  CACTTGCCCA GGATTGAAAC TCCCTGAAGG GACCACCAGG GGCCCTGAGT
5401 TGTTCCTTCC  CCCCGTGGCG AGCTGCCAGC CAGGCTGTAC CTGTGATCGA GGCTGGCGGG
5461 AAP.ATAGGCT TCGTGTGCTC AGGTCATGGG AGGTGCAGGA CAGCTCATGA AACGCCAACA
5521 ATCGCACAAT  TCATGTCAAG CTAATCAGCT ATTTCCTCTT CACGAGCTGT AATTGTCCCA
5581 AAATTCTGGT  CTACCGGGGG TGATCCTTCG TGTACGGGCC CTTCCCTCAA CCCTAGGTAT
5641 GCGCGCATGC  GGTCGCCGCG CAACTCGCGC GAGGGCCGAG GGTTTGGGAC GGGCCGTCCC
5701 GAP.ATGCAGT TGCACCCGGA TGCGTGGCAC CTTTTTTGCG ATAATTTATG CAATGGACTG
5761 CTCTGCAAAA  TTCTGGCTCT GTCGCCAACC CTAGGATCAG CGGCGTAGGA TTTCGTAATC
5821 ATTCGTCCTG  ATGGGGAGCT ACCGACTACC CTAATATCAG CCCGACTGCC TGACGCCAGC
5881 GTCCACTTTT  GTGCACACAT TCCATTCGTG CCCAAGACAT TTCATTGTGG TGCGAAGCGT
5941 CCCCAGTTAC  GCTCACCTGT TTCCCGACCT CCTTACTGTT CTGTCGACAG AGCGGGCCCA
6001 CAGGCCGGTC  GCAGCCACTA GTATGGCCAC CGCATCCACT TTCTCGGCGT TCAATGCCCG
6061 CTGCGGCGAC  CTGCGTCGCT CGGCGGGCTC CGGGCCCCGG CGCCCAGCGA GGCCCCTCCC
6121 CGTGCGCGGG  CGCGCCCCCG ACTGGTCCAT GCTGTTCGCC GTGATCACCA CCATCTTCAG
6181 CGCCGCCGAG  AAGCAGTGGA CCAACCTGGA GTGGAAGCCC AAGCCCAAGC TGCCCCAGCT
6241 GCTGGACGAC  CACTTCGGCC TGCACGGCCT GGTGTTCCGC CGCACCTTCG CCATCCGCTC
6301 CTACGAGGTG  GGCCCCGACC GCAGCACCTC CATCCTGGCC GTGATGAACC ACATGCAGGA
6361 GGCCACCCTG  AACCACGCCA AGAGCGTGGG CATCCTGGGC GACGGCTTCG GCACCACCCT
6421 GGAGATGTCC  AAGCGCGACC TGATGTGGGT GGTGCGCCGC ACCCACGTGG CCGTGGAGCG
6481 CTACCCCACC  TGGGGCGACA CCGTGGAGGT GGAGTGCTGG ATCGGCGCCA GCGGCAACAA
6541 CGGCATGCGC  CGCGACTTCC TGGTGCGCGA CTGCAAGACC GGCGAGATCC TGACCCGCTG
6601 CACCTCCCTG  AGCGTGCTGA TGAACACCCG CACCCGCCGC CTGAGCACCA TCCCCGACGA
6661 GGTGCGCGGC  GAGATCGGCC CCGCCTTCAT CGACAACGTG GCCGTGAAGG ACGACGAGAT
6721 CAAGAAGCTG  CAGAAGCTGA ACGACTCCAC CGCCGACTAC ATCCAGGGCG GCCTGACCCC
6781 CCGCTGGAAC  GACCTGGACG TGAACCAGCA CGTGAACAAC CTGAAGTACG TGGCCTGGGT
6841 GTTCGAGACC  GTGCCCGACA GCATCTTCGA GTCCCACCAC ATCAGCTCCT TCACCCTGGA
                                 362

     6901 GTACCGCCGC  GAGTGCACCC GCGACTCCGT GCTGCGCAGC CTGACCACCG TGAGCGGCGG
     6961 CAGCTCCGAG  GCCGGCCTGG TGTGCGACCA CCTGCTGCAG CTGGAGGGCG GCAGCGAGGT
     7021 GCTGCGCGCC  CGCACCGAGT GGCGCCCCAA GCTGACCGAC TCCTTCCGCG GCATCAGCGT
     7081 GATCCCCGCC  GAGCCCCGCG TGATGGACTA CAAGGACCAC GACGGCGACT ACAAGGACCA
     7141 CGACATCGAC  TACAAGGACG ACGACGACAA GTGACTCGAG GCAGCAGCAG CTCGGATAGT
     7201 ATCGACACAC  TCTGGACGCT GGTCGTGTGA TGGACTGTTG CCGCCACACT TGCTGCCTTG
     7261 ACCTGTGAAT  ATCCCTGCCG CTTTTATCAA ACAGCCTCAG TGTGTTTGAT CTTGTGTGTA
     7321 CGCGCTTTTG  CGAGTTGCTA GCTGCTTGTG CTATTTGCGA ATACCACCCC CAGCATCCCC
     7381 TTCCCTCGTT  TCATATCGCT TGCATCCCAA CCGCAACTTA TCTACGCTGT CCTGCTATCC
     7441 CTCAGCGCTG  CTCCTGCTCC TGCTCACTGC CCCTCGCACA GCCTTGGTTT GGGCTCCGCC
     7501 TGTATTCTCC  TGGTACTGCA ACCTGTAAAC CAGCACTGCA ATGCTGATGC ACGGGAAGTA
     7561 GTGGGATGGG  AACACAAATG GAAAGCTTGA GCTCCAGCCA CGGCAACACC GCGCGCCTTG
     7621 CGGCCGAGCA  CGGCGACAAG AACCTGAGCA AGATCTGCGG GCTGATCGCC AGCGACGAGG
     7681 GCCGGCACGA  GATCGCCTAC ACGCGCATCG TGGACGAGTT CTTCCGCCTC GACCCCGAGG
     7741 GCGCCGTCGC  CGCCTACGCC AACATGATGC GCAAGCAGAT CACCATGCCC GCGCACCTCA
     7801 TGGACGACAT  GGGCCACGGC GAGGCCAACC CGGGCCGCAA CCTCTTCGCC GACTTCTCCG
     7861 CGGTCGCCGA  GAAGATCGAC GTCTACGACG CCGAGGACTA CTGCCGCATC CTGGAGCACC
     7921 TCP.ACGCGCG CTGGAAGGTG GACGAGCGCC AGGTCAGCGG CCAGGCCGCC GCGGACCAGG
     7981 AGTACGTCCT  GGGCCTGCCC CAGCGCTTCC GGAAACTCGC CGAGAAGACC GCCGCCAAGC
     8041 GCP.AGCGCGT CGCGCGCAGG CCCGTCGCCT TCTCCTGGAG AAGAGCCTCT AGAGTCGACC
     8101 TGCAGGCATG  CAAGCTTGGC GTAATCATGG TCATAGCTGT TTCCTGTGTG AAATTGTTAT
     8161 CCGCTCACAA  TTCCACACAA CATACGAGCC GGAAGCATAA AGTGTAAAGC CTGGGGTGCC
     8221 TAATGAGTGA  GCTAACTCAC ATTAATTGCG TTGCGCTCAC TGCCCGCTTT CCAGTCGGGA
     8281 AACCTGTCGT  GCCAGCTGCA TTAATGAATC GGCCAACGCG CGGGGAGAGG CGGTTTGCGT
     8341 ATTGGGCGCT  CTTCCGCTTC CTCGCTCACT GACTCGCTGC GCTCGGTCGT TCGGCTGCGG
     8401 CGAGCGGTAT  CAGCTCACTC AAAGGCGGTA ATACGGTTAT CCACAGAATC AGGGGATAAC
     8461 GCAGGAAAGA  ACATGTGAGC AAAAGGCCAG CAAAAGGCCA GGAACCGTAA AAAGGCCGCG
     8521 TTGCTGGCGT  TTTTCCATAG GCTCCGCCCC CCTGACGAGC ATCACAAAAA TCGACGCTCA
     8581 AGTCAGAGGT  GGCGAAACCC GACAGGACTA TAAAGATACC AGGCGTTTCC CCCTGGAAGC
     8641 TCCCTCGTGC  GCTCTCCTGT TCCGACCCTG CCGCTTACCG GATACCTGTC CGCCTTTCTC
     8701 CCTTCGGGAA  GCGTGGCGCT TTCTCATAGC TCACGCTGTA GGTATCTCAG TTCGGTGTAG
     8761 GTCGTTCGCT  CCAAGCTGGG CTGTGTGCAC GAACCCCCCG TTCAGCCCGA CCGCTGCGCC
     8821 TTATCCGGTA  ACTATCGTCT TGAGTCCAAC CCGGTAAGAC ACGACTTATC GC
SEQ ID NO: 242
pSZ1321
        1 CACTGGCAGC  AGCCACTGGT AACAGGATTA GCAGAGCGAG GTATGTAGGC GGTGCTACAG
       61 AGTTCTTGAA  GTGGTGGCCT AACTACGGCT ACACTAGAAG GACAGTATTT GGTATCTGCG
      121 CTCTGCTGAA  GCCAGTTACC TTCGGAAAAA GAGTTGGTAG CTCTTGATCC GGCAAACAAA
      181 CCACCGCTGG  TAGCGGTGGT TTTTTTGTTT GCAAGCAGCA GATTACGCGC AGAAAAAAAG
      241 GATCTCAAGA  AGATCCTTTG ATCTTTTCTA CGGGGTCTGA CGCTCAGTGG AACGAAAACT
      301 CACGTTAAGG  GATTTTGGTC ATGAGATTAT CAAAAAGGAT CTTCACCTAG ATCCTTTTAA
      361 ATTAAAAATG  AAGTTTTAAA TCAATCTAAA GTATATATGA GTAAACTTGG TCTGACAGTT
      421 ACCAATGCTT  AATCAGTGAG GCACCTATCT CAGCGATCTG TCTATTTCGT TCATCCATAG
      481 TTGCCTGACT  CCCCGTCGTG TAGATAACTA CGATACGGGA GGGCTTACCA TCTGGCCCCA
      541 GTGCTGCAAT  GATACCGCGA GACCCACGCT CACCGGCTCC AGATTTATCA GCAATAAACC
      601 AGCCAGCCGG  AAGGGCCGAG CGCAGAAGTG GTCCTGCAAC TTTATCCGCC TCCATCCAGT
      661 CTATTAATTG  TTGCCGGGAA GCTAGAGTAA GTAGTTCGCC AGTTAATAGT TTGCGCAACG
      721 TTGTTGCCAT  TGCTACAGGC ATCGTGGTGT CACGCTCGTC GTTTGGTATG GCTTCATTCA
      781 GCTCCGGTTC  CCAACGATCA AGGCGAGTTA CATGATCCCC CATGTTGTGC AAAAAAGCGG
      841 TTAGCTCCTT  CGGTCCTCCG ATCGTTGTCA GAAGTAAGTT GGCCGCAGTG TTATCACTCA
      901 TGGTTATGGC  AGCACTGCAT AATTCTCTTA CTGTCATGCC ATCCGTAAGA TGCTTTTCTG
      961 TGACTGGTGA  GTACTCAACC AAGTCATTCT GAGAATAGTG TATGCGGCGA CCGAGTTGCT
     1021 CTTGCCCGGC  GTCAATACGG GATAATACCG CGCCACATAG CAGAACTTTA AAAGTGCTCA
     1081 TCATTGGAAA  ACGTTCTTCG GGGCGAAAAC TCTCAAGGAT CTTACCGCTG TTGAGATCCA
     1141 GTTCGATGTA  ACCCACTCGT GCACCCAACT GATCTTCAGC ATCTTTTACT TTCACCAGCG
     1201 TTTCTGGGTG  AGCAAAAACA GGAAGGCAAA ATGCCGCAAA AAAGGGAATA AGGGCGACAC
     1261 GGP.AATGTTG AATACTCATA CTCTTCCTTT TTCAATATTA TTGAAGCATT TATCAGGGTT
     1321 ATTGTCTCAT  GAGCGGATAC ATATTTGAAT GTATTTAGAA AAATAAACAA ATAGGGGTTC
                                      363

1381 CGCGCACATT  TCCCCGAAAA GTGCCACCTG ACGTCTAAGA AACCATTATT ATCATGACAT
1441 TAACCTATAA  AAATAGGCGT ATCACGAGGC CCTTTCGTCT CGCGCGTTTC GGTGATGACG
1501 GTGAAAACCT  CTGACACATG CAGCTCCCGG AGACGGTCAC AGCTTGTCTG TAAGCGGATG
1561 CCGGGAGCAG  ACAAGCCCGT CAGGGCGCGT CAGCGGGTGT TGGCGGGTGT CGGGGCTGGC
1621 TT~.ACTATGC GGCATCAGAG CAGATTGTAC TGAGAGTGCA CCATATGCGG TGTGAAATAC
1681 CGCACAGATG  CGTAAGGAGA AAATACCGCA TCAGGCGCCA TTCGCCATTC AGGCTGCGCA
1741 ACTGTTGGGA  AGGGCGATCG GTGCGGGCCT CTTCGCTATT ACGCCAGCTG GCGAAAGGGG
1801 GATGTGCTGC  AAGGCGATTA AGTTGGGTAA CGCCAGGGTT TTCCCAGTCA CGACGTTGTA
1861 AAACGACGGC  CAGTGAATTG ATGCATGCTC TTCCGCCTGG AGCTGGTGCA GAGCATGGGG
1921 CAGTTTGCGG  AGGAGAGGGT GCTCCCCGTG CTGCACCCCG TGGACAAGCT GTGGCAGCCG
1981 CAGGACTTCC  TGCCCGACCC CGAGTCGCCC GACTTCGAGG ACCAGGTGGC GGAGCTGCGC
2041 GCGCGCGCCA  AGGACCTGCC CGACGAGTAC TTTGTGGTGC TGGTGGGCGA CATGATCACG
2101 GAGGAGGCGC  TGCCGACCTA CATGGCCATG CTCAACACCT TGGACGGTGT GCGCGACGAC
2161 ACGGGCGCGG  CTGACCACCC GTGGGCGCGC TGGACGCGGC AGTGGGTGGC CGAGGAGAAC
2221 CGGCACGGCG  ACCTGCTGAA CAAGTACTGT TGGCTGACGG GGCGCGTCAA CATGCGGGCC
2281 GTGGAGGTGA  CCATCAACAA CCTGATCAAG AGCGGCATGA ACCCGCAGAC GGACAACAAC
2341 CCTTACTTGG  GCTTCGTCTA CACCTCCTTC CAGGAGCGCG CCACCAAGTA GGTACCCTTT
2401 CTTGCGCTAT  GACACTTCCA GCAAAAGGTA GGGCGGGCTG CGAGACGGCT TCCCGGCGCT
2461 GCATGCAACA  CCGATGATGC TTCGACCCCC CGAAGCTCCT TCGGGGCTGC ATGGGCGCTC
2521 CGATGCCGCT  CCAGGGCGAG CGCTGTTTAA ATAGCCAGGC CCCCGATTGC AAAGACATTA
2581 TAGCGAGCTA  CCAAAGCCAT ATTCAAACAC CTAGATCACT ACCACTTCTA CACAGGCCAC
2641 TCGAGCTTGT  GATCGCACTC CGCTAAGGGG GCGCCTCTTC CTCTTCGTTT CAGTCACAAC
2701 CCGCAAACTC  TAGAATATCA ATGCTGCTGC AGGCCTTCCT GTTCCTGCTG GCCGGCTTCG
2761 CCGCCAAGAT  CAGCGCCTCC ATGACGAACG AGACGTCCGA CCGCCCCCTG GTGCACTTCA
2821 CCCCCAACAA  GGGCTGGATG AACGACCCCA ACGGCCTGTG GTACGACGAG AAGGACGCCA
2881 AGTGGCACCT  GTACTTCCAG TACAACCCGA ACGACACCGT CTGGGGGACG CCCTTGTTCT
2941 GGGGCCACGC  CACGTCCGAC GACCTGACCA ACTGGGAGGA CCAGCCCATC GCCATCGCCC
3001 CG~.AGCGCAA CGACTCCGGC GCCTTCTCCG GCTCCATGGT GGTGGACTAC AACAACACCT
3061 CCGGCTTCTT  CAACGACACC ATCGACCCGC GCCAGCGCTG CGTGGCCATC TGGACCTACA
3121 ACACCCCGGA  GTCCGAGGAG CAGTACATCT CCTACAGCCT GGACGGCGGC TACACCTTCA
3181 CCGAGTACCA  GAAGAACCCC GTGCTGGCCG CCAACTCCAC CCAGTTCCGC GACCCGAAGG
3241 TCTTCTGGTA  CGAGCCCTCC CAGAAGTGGA TCATGACCGC GGCCAAGTCC CAGGACTACA
3301 AGATCGAGAT  CTACTCCTCC GACGACCTGA AGTCCTGGAA GCTGGAGTCC GCGTTCGCCA
3361 ACGAGGGCTT  CCTCGGCTAC CAGTACGAGT GCCCCGGCCT GATCGAGGTC CCCACCGAGC
3421 AGGACCCCAG  CAAGTCCTAC TGGGTGATGT TCATCTCCAT CAACCCCGGC GCCCCGGCCG
3481 GCGGCTCCTT  CAACCAGTAC TTCGTCGGCA GCTTCAACGG CACCCACTTC GAGGCCTTCG
3541 AC~.ACCAGTC CCGCGTGGTG GACTTCGGCA AGGACTACTA CGCCCTGCAG ACCTTCTTCA
3601 ACACCGACCC  GACCTACGGG AGCGCCCTGG GCATCGCGTG GGCCTCCAAC TGGGAGTACT
3661 CCGCCTTCGT  GCCCACCAAC CCCTGGCGCT CCTCCATGTC CCTCGTGCGC AAGTTCTCCC
3721 TC~.ACACCGA GTACCAGGCC AACCCGGAGA CGGAGCTGAT CAACCTGAAG GCCGAGCCGA
3781 TCCTGAACAT  CAGCAACGCC GGCCCCTGGA GCCGGTTCGC CACCAACACC ACGTTGACGA
3841 AGGCCAACAG  CTACAACGTC GACCTGTCCA ACAGCACCGG CACCCTGGAG TTCGAGCTGG
3901 TGTACGCCGT  CAACACCACC CAGACGATCT CCAAGTCCGT GTTCGCGGAC CTCTCCCTCT
3961 GGTTCAAGGG  CCTGGAGGAC CCCGAGGAGT ACCTCCGCAT GGGCTTCGAG GTGTCCGCGT
4021 CCTCCTTCTT  CCTGGACCGC GGGAACAGCA AGGTGAAGTT CGTGAAGGAG AACCCCTACT
4081 TCACCAACCG  CATGAGCGTG AACAACCAGC CCTTCAAGAG CGAGAACGAC CTGTCCTACT
4141 AC~.AGGTGTA CGGCTTGCTG GACCAGAACA TCCTGGAGCT GTACTTCAAC GACGGCGACG
4201 TCGTGTCCAC  CAACACCTAC TTCATGACCA CCGGGAACGC CCTGGGCTCC GTGAACATGA
4261 CGACGGGGGT  GGACAACCTG TTCTACATCG ACAAGTTCCA GGTGCGCGAG GTCAAGTGAC
4321 AATTGGCAGC  AGCAGCTCGG ATAGTATCGA CACACTCTGG ACGCTGGTCG TGTGATGGAC
4381 TGTTGCCGCC  ACACTTGCTG CCTTGACCTG TGAATATCCC TGCCGCTTTT ATCAAACAGC
4441 CTCAGTGTGT  TTGATCTTGT GTGTACGCGC TTTTGCGAGT TGCTAGCTGC TTGTGCTATT
4501 TGCGAATACC  ACCCCCAGCA TCCCCTTCCC TCGTTTCATA TCGCTTGCAT CCCAACCGCA
4561 ACTTATCTAC  GCTGTCCTGC TATCCCTCAG CGCTGCTCCT GCTCCTGCTC ACTGCCCCTC
4621 GCACAGCCTT  GGTTTGGGCT CCGCCTGTAT TCTCCTGGTA CTGCAACCTG TAAACCAGCA
4681 CTGCAATGCT  GATGCACGGG AAGTAGTGGG ATGGGAACAC AAATGGAGGA TCCCGCGTCT
4741 CG~.ACAGAGC GCGCAGAGGA ACGCTGAAGG TCTCGCCTCT GTCGCACCTC AGCGCGGCAT
4801 ACACCACAAT  AACCACCTGA CGAATGCGCT TGGTTCTTCG TCCATTAGCG AAGCGTCCGG
4861 TTCACACACG  TGCCACGTTG GCGAGGTGGC AGGTGACAAT GATCGGTGGA GCTGATGGTC
4921 GA~.ACGTTCA CAGCCTAGGG ATATCGAATT CGGCCGACAG GACGCGCGTC AAAGGTGCTG
4981 GTCGTGTATG  CCCTGGCCGG CAGGTCGTTG CTGCTGCTGG TTAGTGATTC CGCAACCCTG
                                 364

5041 ATTTTGGCGT  CTTATTTTGG CGTGGCAAAC GCTGGCGCCC GCGAGCCGGG CCGGCGGCGA
5101 TGCGGTGCCC  CACGGCTGCC GGAATCCAAG GGAGGCAAGA GCGCCCGGGT CAGTTGAAGG
5161 GCTTTACGCG  CAAGGTACAG CCGCTCCTGC AAGGCTGCGT GGTGGAATTG GACGTGCAGG
5221 TCCTGCTGAA  GTTCCTCCAC CGCCTCACCA GCGGACAAAG CACCGGTGTA TCAGGTCCGT
5281 GTCATCCACT  CTAAAGAACT CGACTACGAC CTACTGATGG CCCTAGATTC TTCATCAAAA
5341 ACGCCTGAGA  CACTTGCCCA GGATTGAAAC TCCCTGAAGG GACCACCAGG GGCCCTGAGT
5401 TGTTCCTTCC  CCCCGTGGCG AGCTGCCAGC CAGGCTGTAC CTGTGATCGA GGCTGGCGGG
5461 AA~.ATAGGCT TCGTGTGCTC AGGTCATGGG AGGTGCAGGA CAGCTCATGA AACGCCAACA
5521 ATCGCACAAT  TCATGTCAAG CTAATCAGCT ATTTCCTCTT CACGAGCTGT AATTGTCCCA
5581 AAATTCTGGT  CTACCGGGGG TGATCCTTCG TGTACGGGCC CTTCCCTCAA CCCTAGGTAT
5641 GCGCGCATGC  GGTCGCCGCG CAACTCGCGC GAGGGCCGAG GGTTTGGGAC GGGCCGTCCC
5701 GA~.ATGCAGT TGCACCCGGA TGCGTGGCAC CTTTTTTGCG ATAATTTATG CAATGGACTG
5761 CTCTGCAAAA  TTCTGGCTCT GTCGCCAACC CTAGGATCAG CGGCGTAGGA TTTCGTAATC
5821 ATTCGTCCTG  ATGGGGAGCT ACCGACTACC CTAATATCAG CCCGACTGCC TGACGCCAGC
5881 GTCCACTTTT  GTGCACACAT TCCATTCGTG CCCAAGACAT TTCATTGTGG TGCGAAGCGT
5941 CCCCAGTTAC  GCTCACCTGT TTCCCGACCT CCTTACTGTT CTGTCGACAG AGCGGGCCCA
6001 CAGGCCGGTC  GCAGCCACTA GTATGGCCAC CGCATCCACT TTCTCGGCGT TCAATGCCCG
6061 CTGCGGCGAC  CTGCGTCGCT CGGCGGGCTC CGGGCCCCGG CGCCCAGCGA GGCCCCTCCC
6121 CGTGCGCGGG  CGCGCCCAGC TGCCCGACTG GAGCATGCTG CTGGCCGCGA TCACCACCCT
6181 GTTCCTGGCG  GCCGAGAAGC AGTGGATGAT GCTGGACTGG AAGCCCAAGC GCCCCGACAT
6241 GCTGGTGGAC  CCCTTCGGCC TGGGCCGCTT CGTGCAGGAC GGCCTGGTGT TCCGCAACAA
6301 CTTCAGCATC  CGCAGCTACG AGATCGGCGC GGACCGCACC GCCAGCATCG AGACCCTGAT
6361 GAACCACCTG  CAGGAGACCG CCCTGAACCA CGTGAAGAGT GTGGGCCTGC TGGAGGACGG
6421 CCTGGGCAGC  ACCCGCGAGA TGAGCCTGCG CAACCTGATC TGGGTGGTGA CCAAGATGCA
6481 GGTGGCGGTG  GACCGCTACC CCACCTGGGG CGACGAGGTG CAGGTGAGCA GCTGGGCGAC
6541 CGCCATCGGC  AAGAACGGCA TGCGCCGCGA GTGGATCGTG ACCGACTTCC GCACCGGCGA
6601 GACCCTGCTG  CGCGCCACCA GCGTGTGGGT GATGATGAAC AAGCTGACCC GCCGCATCAG
6661 CAAGATCCCC  GAGGAGGTGT GGCACGAGAT CGGCCCCAGC TTCATCGACG CGCCCCCCCT
6721 GCCCACCGTG  GAGGACGACG GCCGCAAGCT GACCCGCTTC GACGAGAGCA GCGCCGACTT
6781 CATCCGCAAG  GGCCTGACCC CCCGCTGGAG CGACCTGGAC ATCAACCAGC ACGTGAACAA
6841 CGTGAAGTAC  ATCGGCTGGC TGCTGGAGAG CGCGCCCCCC GAGATCCACG AGAGCCACGA
6901 GATCGCCAGC  CTGACCCTGG AGTACCGCCG CGAGTGCGGC CGCGACAGCG TGCTGAACAG
6961 CGCCACCAAG  GTGAGCGACA GCAGCCAGCT GGGCAAGAGC GCCGTGGAGT GCAACCACCT
7021 GGTGCGCCTG  CAGAACGGCG GCGAGATCGT GAAGGGCCGC ACCGTGTGGC GCCCCAAGCG
7081 CCCCCTGTAC  AACGACGGCG CCGTGGTGGA CGTGCCCGCC AAGACCAGCT GACTCGAGGC
7141 AGCAGCAGCT  CGGATAGTAT CGACACACTC TGGACGCTGG TCGTGTGATG GACTGTTGCC
7201 GCCACACTTG  CTGCCTTGAC CTGTGAATAT CCCTGCCGCT TTTATCAAAC AGCCTCAGTG
7261 TGTTTGATCT  TGTGTGTACG CGCTTTTGCG AGTTGCTAGC TGCTTGTGCT ATTTGCGAAT
7321 ACCACCCCCA  GCATCCCCTT CCCTCGTTTC ATATCGCTTG CATCCCAACC GCAACTTATC
7381 TACGCTGTCC  TGCTATCCCT CAGCGCTGCT CCTGCTCCTG CTCACTGCCC CTCGCACAGC
7441 CTTGGTTTGG  GCTCCGCCTG TATTCTCCTG GTACTGCAAC CTGTAAACCA GCACTGCAAT
7501 GCTGATGCAC  GGGAAGTAGT GGGATGGGAA CACAAATGGA AAGCTTGAGC TCCAGCCACG
7561 GC~.ACACCGC GCGCCTTGCG GCCGAGCACG GCGACAAGAA CCTGAGCAAG ATCTGCGGGC
7621 TGATCGCCAG  CGACGAGGGC CGGCACGAGA TCGCCTACAC GCGCATCGTG GACGAGTTCT
7681 TCCGCCTCGA  CCCCGAGGGC GCCGTCGCCG CCTACGCCAA CATGATGCGC AAGCAGATCA
7741 CCATGCCCGC  GCACCTCATG GACGACATGG GCCACGGCGA GGCCAACCCG GGCCGCAACC
7801 TCTTCGCCGA  CTTCTCCGCG GTCGCCGAGA AGATCGACGT CTACGACGCC GAGGACTACT
7861 GCCGCATCCT  GGAGCACCTC AACGCGCGCT GGAAGGTGGA CGAGCGCCAG GTCAGCGGCC
7921 AGGCCGCCGC  GGACCAGGAG TACGTCCTGG GCCTGCCCCA GCGCTTCCGG AAACTCGCCG
7981 AG~.AGACCGC CGCCAAGCGC AAGCGCGTCG CGCGCAGGCC CGTCGCCTTC TCCTGGAGAA
8041 GAGCCTCTAG  AGTCGACCTG CAGGCATGCA AGCTTGGCGT AATCATGGTC ATAGCTGTTT
8101 CCTGTGTGAA  ATTGTTATCC GCTCACAATT CCACACAACA TACGAGCCGG AAGCATAAAG
8161 TGTAAAGCCT  GGGGTGCCTA ATGAGTGAGC TAACTCACAT TAATTGCGTT GCGCTCACTG
8221 CCCGCTTTCC  AGTCGGGAAA CCTGTCGTGC CAGCTGCATT AATGAATCGG CCAACGCGCG
8281 GGGAGAGGCG  GTTTGCGTAT TGGGCGCTCT TCCGCTTCCT CGCTCACTGA CTCGCTGCGC
8341 TCGGTCGTTC  GGCTGCGGCG AGCGGTATCA GCTCACTCAA AGGCGGTAAT ACGGTTATCC
8401 ACAGAATCAG  GGGATAACGC AGGAAAGAAC ATGTGAGCAA AAGGCCAGCA AAAGGCCAGG
8461 AACCGTAAAA  AGGCCGCGTT GCTGGCGTTT TTCCATAGGC TCCGCCCCCC TGACGAGCAT
8521 CACAAAAATC  GACGCTCAAG TCAGAGGTGG CGAAACCCGA CAGGACTATA AAGATACCAG
8581 GCGTTTCCCC  CTGGAAGCTC CCTCGTGCGC TCTCCTGTTC CGACCCTGCC GCTTACCGGA
8641 TACCTGTCCG  CCTTTCTCCC TTCGGGAAGC GTGGCGCTTT CTCATAGCTC ACGCTGTAGG
                                 365

       8701 TATCTCAGTT CGGTGTAGGT CGTTCGCTCC AAGCTGGGCT GTGTGCACGA ACCCCCCGTT
       8761 CAGCCCGACC GCTGCGCCTT ATCCGGTAAC TATCGTCTTG AGTCCAACCC GGTAAGACAC
       8821 GACTTATCGC
SEQ ID NO: 243
C. hookeriana ClO:O specific thioesterase construct
ggtacccgcctgcaacgcaagggcagccacagccgctcccacccgccgctgaaccgacacgtgcttgggcgcctgccgcctgcctg
ccgcatgcttgtgctggtgaggctgggcagtgctgccatgctgattgaggcttggttcatcgggtggaagcttatgtgtgtgctgggct
tgcatgccgggcaatgcgcatggtggcaagagggcggcagcacttgctggagctgccgcggtgcctccaggtggttcaatcgcggc
agccagagggatttcagatgatcgcgcgtacaggttgagcagcagtgtcagcaaaggtagcagtttgccagaatgatcggttcagc
tgttaatcaatgccagcaagagaaggggtcaagtgcaaacacgggcatgccacagcacgggcaccggggagtggaatggcacca
ccaagtgtgtgcgagccagcatcgccgcctggctgtttcagctacaacggcaggagtcatccaacgtaaccatgagctgatcaaca
ctgcaatcatcgggcgggcgtgatgcaagcatgcctggcgaagacacatggtgtgcggatgctgccggctgctgcctgctgcgcac
gccgttgagttggcagcaggctcagccatgcactggatggcagctgggctgccactgcaatgtggtggataggatgcaagtggagc
gaataccaaaccctctggctgcttgctgggttgcatggcatcgcaccatcagcaggagcgcatgcgaagggactggccccatgcac
gccatgccaaaccggagcgcaccgagtgtccacactgtcaccaggcccgcaagctttgcagaaccatgctcatggacgcatgtagc
gctgacgtcccttgacggcgctcctctcgggtgtgggaaacgcaatgcagcacaggcagcagaggcggcggcagcagagcggcgg
cagcagcggcgggggccacccttcttgcggggtcgcgccccagccagcggtgatgcgctgatcccaaacgagttcacattcatttgc
atgcctggagaagcgaggctggggcctttgggctggtgcagcccgcaatggaatgcgggaccgccaggctagcagcaaaggcgcc
tcccctactccgcatcgatgttccatagtgcattggactgcatttgggtggggcggccggctgtttctttcgtgttgcaaaacgcgcca
gctcagcaacctgtcccgtgggtcccccgtgccgatgaaatcgtgtgcacgccgatcagctgattgcccggctcgcgaagtaggcgc
cctcctttctgctcgccctctctccgtcccgcctctagaatatcaATGatcgagcaggacggcctccacgccggctcccccgccgc
ctgggtggagcgcctgttcggctacgactgggcccagcagaccatcggctgctccgacgccgccgtgttccgcctgtccgccca
gggccgccccgtgctgttcgtgaagaccgacctgtccggcgccctgaacgagctgcaggacgaggccgcccgcctgtcctggc
tggccaccaccggcgtgccctgcgccgccgtgctggacgtggtgaccgaggccggccgcgactggctgctgctgggcgaggt
gcccggccaggacctgctgtcctcccacctggcccccgccgagaaggtgtccatcatggccgacgccatgcgccgcctgcacac
cctggaccccgccacctgccccttcgaccaccaggccaagcaccgcatcgagcgcgcccgcacccgcatggaggccggcctgg
tggaccaggacgacctggacgaggagcaccagggcctggcccccgccgagctgttcgcccgcctgaaggcccgcatgcccga
cggcgaggacctggtggtgacccacggcgacgcctgcctgcccaacatcatggtggagaacggccgcttctccggcttcatcg
actgcggccgcctgggcgtggccgaccgctaccaggacatcgccctggccacccgcgacatcgccgaggagctgggcggcga
gtgggccgaccgcttcctggtgctgtacggcatcgccgcccccgactcccagcgcatcgccttctaccgcctgctggacgagttct
tcTGAcaattggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctg
ccttga cctgtgaata tccctgccgcttttatcaaa cagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgta cgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgc
ttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgc
tatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctg
taaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaggatcccgcgtctcgaacagagcgcgc
agaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataaccacctgacgaatgcgcttggttcttcgt
ccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaatgatcggtggagctgatggtcgaaacgt
tcacagcctagggatatcg_aatt_dctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagacggcttcccggcgc
tgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgt
ttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcactaccacttctacac
aggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaadacta_gtATGgcc
accgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgcccagcgagg
cccctccccgtgcgcgggcgcgcccagctgcccgactggagccgcctgctgaccgccatcaccaccgtgttcgtgaagtccaag
cgccccgacatgcacgaccgcaagtccaagcgccccgacatgctggtggacagcttcggcctggagtccaccgtgcaggacg
gcctggtgttccgccagtccttctccatccgctcctacgagatcggcaccgaccgcaccgccagcatcgagaccctgatgaacca
cctgcaggagacctccctgaaccactgcaagagcaccggcatcctgctggacggcttcggccgcaccctggagatgtgcaagc
                                              366

gcgacctgatctgggtggtgatcaagatgcagatcaaggtgaaccgctaccccgcctggggcgacaccgtggagatcaacac
ccgcttcagccgcctgggcaagatcggcatgggccgcgactggctgatctccgactgcaacaccggcgagatcctggtgcgcg
ccaccagcgcctacgccatgatgaaccagaagacccgccgcctgtccaagctgccctacgaggtgcaccaggagatcgtgcc
cctgttcgtggacagccccgtgatcgaggactccgacctgaaggtgcacaagttcaaggtgaagaccggcgacagcatccag
aagggcctgacccccggctggaacgacctggacgtgaaccagcacgtgtccaacgtgaagtacatcggctggatcctggag
agcatgcccaccgaggtgctggagacccaggagctgtgdccctggccctggagtaccgccgcgagtgcggccgcgactccgt
gctggagagcgtgaccgccatggaccccagcaaggtgggcgtgcgctcccagtaccagcacctgctgcgcctggaggacgg
caccgccatcgtgaacggcgccaccgagtggcgccccaagaacgccggcgccaacggcgccatctccaccggcaagaccag
caacggcaactccgtgtccatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacg
acgacaagTGActcgaggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccac
acttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttg
ctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacg
ctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtac
tgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaaagcttgagctc
SEQ ID NO: 244
coding region for C. hookeriana ClO:O specific thioesterase (codon-optimized)
ATGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgccca
gcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgggcgcgcccagctgcccgactggagccgcctgctgaccgccatcaccaccgtgttcgtgaag
tccaagcgccccgacatgcacgaccgcaagtccaagcgccccgacatgctggtggacagcttcggcdggagtccaccgtgca
ggacggcctggtgttccgccagtccttctccatccgctcctacgagatcggcaccgaccgcaccgccagcatcgagaccctgat
gaaccacctgcaggagacctccctgaaccactgcaagagcaccggcatcctgctggacggcttcggccgcaccctggagatgt
gcaagcgcgacctgatctgggtggtgatcaagatgcagatcaaggtgaaccgctaccccgcctggggcgacaccgtggaga
tcaacacccgcttcagccgcctgggcaagatcggcatgggccgcgactggctgatctccgactgcaacaccggcgagatcctg
gtgcgcgccaccagcgcctacgccatgatgaaccagaagacccgccgcctgtccaagctgccctacgaggtgcaccaggaga
tcgtgcccctgttcgtggacagccccgtgatcgaggactccgacctgaaggtgcacaagttcaaggtgaagaccggcgacag
catccagaagggcctgacccccggctggaacgacctggacgtgaaccagcacgtgtccaacgtgaagtacatcggctggatc
ctggagagcatgcccaccgaggtgctggagacccaggagctgtgctccctggccctggagtaccgccgcgagtgcggccgcg
actccgtgctggagagcgtgaccgccatggaccccagcaaggtgggcgtgcgctcccagtaccagcacctgdgcgcctgga
ggacggcaccgccatcgtgaacggcgccaccgagtggcgccccaagaacgccggcgccaacggcgccatctccaccggcaa
gaccagcaacggcaactccgtgtccatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaagg
acgacgacgacaagTGA
SEQ ID NO: 245
C. hookeriana KAS IV enzyme construct
ggtacccgcctgcaa cgcaagggcagcca cagccgctccca cccgccgctgaa ccga ca cgtgcttgggcgcctgccgcctgcct
gccgcatgcttgtgctggtgaggctgggcagtgctgccatgctgattgaggcttggttcatcgggtggaagcttatgtgtgtgctgg
gcttgcatgccgggcaatgcgcatggtggcaagagggcggcagcacttgctggagctgccgcggtgcctccaggtggttcaatcg
cggcagccagagggatttcagatgatcgcgcgtacaggttgagcagcagtgtcagcaaaggtagcagtttgccagaatgatcggt
tcagctgttaatcaatgccagcaagagaaggggtcaagtgcaaacacgggcatgccacagcacgggcaccggggagtggaatg
gcaccaccaagtgtgtgcgagccagcatcgccgcctggctgtttcagctacaacggcaggagtcatccaacgtaaccatgagctg
atcaacactgcaatcatcgggcgggcgtgatgcaagcatgcctggcgaagacacatggtgtgcggatgctgccggctgctgcctg
ctgcgcacgccgttgagttggcagcaggctcagccatgcactggatggcagctgggctgccactgcaatgtggtggataggatgc
aagtggagcgaataccaaaccctctggctgcttgctgggttgcatggcatcgcaccatcagcaggagcgcatgcgaagggactgg
ccccatgcacgccatgccaaaccggagcgcaccgagtgtccacactgtcaccaggcccgcaagctttgcagaaccatgctcatgg
acgcatgtagcgctgacgtcccttgacggcgctcctctcgggtgtgggaaacgcaatgcagcacaggcagcagaggcggcggca
                                            367

gcagagcggcggcagcagcggcgggggccacccttcttgcggggtcgcgccccagccagcggtgatgcgctgatcccaaacgag
ttcacattcatttgcatgcctggagaagcgaggctggggcctttgggctggtgcagcccgcaatggaatgcgggaccgccaggcta
gcagcaaaggcgcctcccctactccgcatcgatgttccatagtgcattggactgcatttgggtggggcggccggctgtttctttcgtg
ttgcaaaacgcgccagctcagcaacctgtcccgtgggtcccccgtgccgatgaaatcgtgtgcacgccgatcagctgattgcccgg
ctcgcgaagtaggcgccctcctttctgctcgccctctctccgtcccgcctctagatctagaatatcaATGatcgagcaggacggcc
tccacgccggctcccccgccgcctgggtggagcgcctgttcggctacgactgggcccagcagaccatcggctgctccgacgccg
ccgtgttccgcctgtccgcccagggccgccccgtgctgttcgtgaagaccgacctgtccggcgccctgaacgagctgcaggacg
aggccgcccgcctgtcctggctggccaccaccggcgtgccctgcgccgccgtgctggacgtggtgaccgaggccggccgcgac
tggctgctgctgggcgaggtgcccggccaggacctgctgtcctcccacctggcccccgccgagaaggtgtccatcatggccgac
gccatgcgccgcctgcacaccctggaccccgccacctgccccttcgaccaccaggccaagcaccgcatcgagcgcgcccgcacc
cgcatggaggccggcctggtggaccaggacgacctggacgaggagcaccagggcctggcccccgccgagctgttcgcccgc
ctgaaggcccgcatgcccgacggcgaggacctggtggtgacccacggcgacgcctgcctgcccaacatcatggtggagaac
ggccgcttctccggcttcatcgactgcggccgcctgggcgtggccgaccgctaccaggacatcgccctggccacccgcgacatc
gccgaggagctgggcggcgagtgggccgaccgcttcctggtgctgtacggcatcgccgcccccgactcccagcgcatcgcctt
ctaccgcctgctggacgagttcttcTGAcaattgjgcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatgl
gactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacg
cgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaacc
gcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctg
tattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggal1111atcc
cgcgtctcgaacagagcgcgcagaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataaccacctg
acgaatgcgcttggttcttcgtccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaatgatcgg
tggagctgatggtcgaaacgttcacagcctagggatatcgaattcctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggc
tgcgagacggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatg
ccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacc
tagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaac
ccgcaaacactagtggcgcgccATGgcgaccgccagctgcatggtggcgtcgcccttctgcacctggctggtcgccgcgtgcat
gcccacctccagcgacaacgacccccgctcgctgtcccacaagcgcctgcgcctgagccgccgccgccgcaccctgagctcgca
ctgctccctgcgcggcagcaccttccagtgcctggacccctgcaaccagcagcgcttcctgggcgacaacggcttcgcgtcgctg
ttcggctccaagcccctgcgcagcaaccgcggccacctgcgcctgggccgcacctcgcactccggcgaggtgatggccgtcgc
gatgcagcccgcccaggaggtgagcaccaacaagaagcccgcgaccaagcagcgccgcgtggtcgtgaccggcatgggcg
tcgtgacccccctgggccacgaccccgacgtgtattataacaacctgctggacggcatctcgggcatctccgagatcgagaact
tcgactgcagccagttccccacccgcatcgccggcgagatcaagtcgttctccaccgacggctgggtcgcgcccaagttcagcg
agcgcatggacaagttcatgctgtatatgctgaccgccggcaagaaggcgctggccgacggcggcatcaccgaggacgcga
tgaaggagctgaacaagcgcaagtgcggcgtgctgatcggctcgggcctgggcggcatgaaggtcttctccgacagcatcga
ggccctgcgcacctcgtataagaagatctcccccttctgcgtgcccttcagcaccaccaacatgggctcggcgatcctggcgatg
gacctgggctggatgggccccaactattccatcagcaccgcgtgcgccacctcgaacttctgcatcctgaacgcggccaaccac
atcatcaagggcgaggcggacatgatgctgtgcggcggctccgacgccgcggtgctgcccgtcggcctgggcggcttcgtggc
ctgccgcgcgctgagccagcgcaacaacgaccccaccaaggcctcgcgcccctgggactccaaccgcgacggcttcgtcatgg
gcgagggcgcgggcgtgctgctgctggaggagctggagcacgccaagaagcgcggcgcgaccatctatgccgagttcctgg
gcggcagcttcacctgcgacgcgtatcacatgaccgagccccaccccgagggcgccggcgtcatcctgtgcatcgagaaggc
gctggcccagtcgggcgtgtcccgcgaggacgtgaactatatcaacgcgcacgccaccagcacccccgcgggcgacatcaag
gagtatcaggccctggcgcactgcttcggccagaactcggagctgcgcgtcaactccaccaagagcatgatcggccacctgct
gggcggcgccggcggcgtggaggcggtcgccgtggtccaggcgatccgcaccggctggatccaccccaacatcaacctgga
ggaccccgacgagggcgtggacgccaagctgctggtcggccccaagaaggagaagctgaaggtgaaggtcggcctgtcga
actccttcggcttcggcggccacaacagctcgatcctgttcgcgccctgcaacTGActcgai;dgcagcagcagctcggatagtatcl
gacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaac
agcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttc
                                             368

cctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccct
cgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagt
gggatgggaacacaaatggalaagcttgagctc
SEQ ID NO: 246
coding region for C. hookeriana KAS IV enzyme (codon-optimized)
ATGgcgaccgccagctgcatggtggcgtcgcccttctgcacctggctggtcgccgcgtgcatgcccacctccagcgacaacga
cccccgctcgctgtcccacaagcgcctgcgcctgagccgccgccgccgcaccctgagctcgcactgctccctgcgcggcagcacc
ttccagtgcctggacccctgcaaccagcagcgcttcctgggcgacaacggcttcgcgtcgctgttcggctccaagcccctgcgca
gcaaccgcggccacctgcgcctgggccgcacctcgcactccggcgaggtgatggccgtcgcgatgcagcccgcccaggaggt
gagcaccaacaagaagcccgcgaccaagcagcgccgcgtggtcgtgaccggcatgggcgtcgtgacccccctgggccacga
ccccgacgtgtattataacaacctgctggacggcatctcgggcatctccgagatcgagaacttcgactgcagccagttccccac
ccgcatcgccggcgagatcaagtcgttctccaccgacggctgggtcgcgcccaagttcagcgagcgcatggacaagttcatgc
tgtatatgctgaccgccggcaagaaggcgctggccgacggcggcatcaccgaggacgcgatgaaggagctgaacaagcgc
aagtgcggcgtgctgatcggctcgggcctgggcggcatgaaggtcttctccgacagcatcgaggccctgcgcacctcgtataa
gaagatctcccccttctgcgtgcccttcagcaccaccaacatgggctcggcgatcctggcgatggacctgggctggatgggccc
caactattccatcagcaccgcgtgcgccacctcgaacttctgcatcctgaacgcggccaaccacatcatcaagggcgaggcgg
acatgatgctgtgcggcggctccgacgccgcggtgctgcccgtcggcctgggcggcttcgtggcctgccgcgcgctgagccag
cgcaacaacgaccccaccaaggcctcgcgcccctgggactccaaccgcgacggcttcgtcatgggcgagggcgcgggcgtgc
tgctgctggaggagctggagcacgccaagaagcgcggcgcgaccatctatgccgagttcctgggcggcagcttcacctgcga
cgcgtatcacatgaccgagccccaccccgagggcgccggcgtcatcctgtgcatcgagaaggcgctggcccagtcgggcgtgt
cccgcgaggacgtgaactatatcaacgcgcacgccaccagcacccccgcgggcgacatcaaggagtatcaggccctggcgc
actgcttcggccagaactcggagctgcgcgtcaactccaccaagagcatgatcggccacctgctgggcggcgccggcggcgt
ggaggcggtcgccgtggtccaggcgatccgcaccggctggatccaccccaacatcaacctggaggaccccgacgagggcgt
ggacgccaagctgctggtcggccccaagaaggagaagctgaaggtgaaggtcggcctgtcgaactccttcggcttcggcggc
cacaacagctcgatcctgttcgcgccctgcaacTGA
SEQ ID NO: 247
C. hookeriana KAS IV enzyme
MATASCMVASPFCTWLVAACM PTSSDN DPRSLSH KRLRLSRRRRTLSSHCSLRGSTFQCL
DPCNQQRFLGDNGFASLFGSKPLRSNRGHLRLGRTSHSGEVMAVAMQPAQEVSTNKKPAT
KQRRVVVTGMGVVTPLGHDPDVYYNNLLDGISGISEIENFDCSQFPTRIAGEIKSFSTDG
WVAPKFSERMDKFMLYMLTAGKKALADGGITEDAMKELNKRKCGVLIGSGLGGMKVFSDS
IEALRTSYKKISPFCVPFSTINMGSAILAMDLGWMGPNYSISTACATSNFCILNAANHll
KGEADMMLCGGSDAAVLPVGLGGFVACRALSQRNNDPTKASRPWDSNRDGFVMGEGAGVL
LLEELEHAKKRGATIYAE FLGGSFTCDAYH MTEPH PEGAGVI LCI EKALAQSGVSREDVN
YINAHATSTPAGDIKEYQALAHCFGQNSELRVNSTKSMIGHLLGGAGGVEAVAVVQAIRT
GWIHPNINLEDPDEGVDAKLLVGPKKEKLKVKVGLSNSFGFGGHNSSILFAPCN
SEQ ID NO: 248
C. hookeriana ClO:O specific thioesterase plus C. hookeriana KAS IV enzyme construct
ggtacccgcctgcaa cgcaagggcagcca cagccgctccca cccgccgctgaa ccga ca cgtgcttgggcgcctgccgcctgcct
gccgcatgcttgtgctggtgaggctgggcagtgctgccatgctgattgaggcttggttcatcgggtggaagcttatgtgtgtgctgg
gcttgcatgccgggcaatgcgcatggtggcaagagggcggcagcacttgctggagctgccgcggtgcctccaggtggttcaatcg
cggcagccagagggatttcagatgatcgcgcgtacaggttgagcagcagtgtcagcaaaggtagcagtttgccagaatgatcggt
                                             369

tcagctgttaatcaatgccagcaagagaaggggtcaagtgcaaacacgggcatgccacagcacgggcaccggggagtggaatg
gcaccaccaagtgtgtgcgagccagcatcgccgcctggctgtttcagctacaacggcaggagtcatccaacgtaaccatgagctg
atcaacactgcaatcatcgggcgggcgtgatgcaagcatgcctggcgaagacacatggtgtgcggatgctgccggctgctgcctg
ctgcgcacgccgttgagttggcagcaggctcagccatgcactggatggcagctgggctgccactgcaatgtggtggataggatgc
aagtggagcgaataccaaaccctctggctgcttgctgggttgcatggcatcgcaccatcagcaggagcgcatgcgaagggactgg
ccccatgcacgccatgccaaaccggagcgcaccgagtgtccacactgtcaccaggcccgcaagctttgcagaaccatgctcatgg
acgcatgtagcgctgacgtcccttgacggcgctcctctcgggtgtgggaaacgcaatgcagcacaggcagcagaggcggcggca
gcagagcggcggcagcagcggcgggggccacccttcttgcggggtcgcgccccagccagcggtgatgcgctgatcccaaacgag
ttcacattcatttgcatgcctggagaagcgaggctggggcctttgggctggtgcagcccgcaatggaatgcgggaccgccaggcta
gcagcaaagg cgcctccccta ctccgcatcgatgttccatagtgcattgga ctg catttgggtggggcggccggctgtttctttcgtg
ttgcaaaacgcgccagctcagcaacctgtcccgtgggtcccccgtgccgatgaaatcgtgtgcacgccgatcagctgattgcccgg
ctcgcgaagtaggcgccctcctttctgctcgccctctctccgtcccgcctctagatctagaatatcaATGatcgagcaggacggcc
tccacgccggctcccccgccgcctgggtggagcgcctgttcggctacgactgggcccagcagaccatcggctgctccgacgccg
ccgtgttccgcctgtccgcccagggccgccccgtgctgttcgtgaagaccgacctgtccggcgccctgaacgagctgcaggacg
aggccgcccgcctgtcctggctggccaccaccggcgtgccctgcgccgccgtgctggacgtggtgaccgaggccggccgcgac
tggctgctgctgggcgaggtgcccggccaggacctgctgtcctcccacctggcccccgccgagaaggtgtccatcatggccgac
gccatgcgccgcctgcacaccctggaccccgccacctgccccttcgaccaccaggccaagcaccgcatcgagcgcgcccgcacc
cgcatggaggccggcctggtggaccaggacgacctggacgaggagcaccagggcctggcccccgccgagctgttcgcccgc
ctgaaggcccgcatgcccgacggcgaggacctggtggtgacccacggcgacgcctgcctgcccaacatcatggtggagaac
ggccgcttctccggcttcatcgactgcggccgcctgggcgtggccgaccgctaccaggacatcgccctggccacccgcgacatc
gccgaggagctgggcggcgagtgggccgaccgcttcctggtgctgtacggcatcgccgcccccgactcccagcgcatcgcctt
ctaccgcctgctggacgagttcttcTGAcaattgjgcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatgl
gactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacg
cgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaacc
gcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctg
tattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggall!'l!'atcc
cgcgtctcgaacagagcgcgcagaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataaccacctg
acgaatgcgcttggttcttcgtccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaatgatcgg
tggagctgatggtcgaaacgttcacagcctagggagtttaggtccagcgtccgtggggggggacgggctgggagcttgggccggg
aagggcaagacgatgcagtccctctggggagtcacagccgactgtgtgtgttgcactgtgcggcccgcagcactcacacgcaaaat
gcctggccgacaggcaggccctgtccagtgcaacatccacggtccctctcatcaggctcaccttgctcattgacataacggaatgcg
taccgctctttcagatctgtccatccagagaggggagcaggctccccaccgacgctgtcaaacttgcttcctgcccaaccgaaaaca
ttattgtttgagggggggggggggggggcagattgcatggcgggatatctcgtgaggaacatcactgggacactgtggaacacagt
gagtgcagtatgcagagcatgtatgctaggggtcagcgcaggaagggggcctttcccagtctcccatgccactgcaccgtatccacg
actcaccaggaccagcttcttgatcggcttccgctcccgtggacaccagtgtgtagcctctggactccaggtatgcgtgcaccgcaaa
ggccagccgatcgtgccgattcctggggtggaggatatgagtcagccaacttggggctcagagtgcacactggggcacgatacgaa
acaacatctacaccgtgtcctccatgctgacacaccacagcttcgctccacctgaatgtgggcgcatgggcccgaatcacagccaat
gtcgctgctgccataatgtgatccagaccctctccgcccagatgccgagcggatcgtgggcgctgaatagattcctgtttcgatcact
gtttgggtcctttccttttcgtctcggatgcgcgtctcgaaacaggctgcgtcgggctttcggatcccttttgctccctccgtcaccatcc
tgcgcgcgggcaagttgcttgaccctgggctggtaccagggttggagggtattaccgcgtcaggccattcccagcccggattcaatt
caaagtctgggccaccaccctccgccgctctgtctgatcactccacattcgtgcatacactacgttcaagtcctgatccaggcgtgtct
cggga ca aggtgtgcttgagtttga atctca agga ceca etc ca gca cag ctgctggttga ccc cg cc ct cg ca aca tA TGgcg ac
cgccagctgcatggtggcgtcgcccttctgcacctggctggtcgccgcgtgcatgcccacctccagcgacaacgacccccgctcg
ctgtcccacaagcgcctgcgcctgagccgccgccgccgcaccctgagctcgcactgctccctgcgcggcagcaccttccagtgcc
tggacccctgcaaccagcagcgcttcctgggcgacaacggcttcgcgtcgctgttcggctccaagcccctgcgcagcaaccgcg
gccacctgcgcctgggccgcacctcgcactccggcgaggtgatggccgtcgcgatgcagcccgcccaggaggtgagcaccaa
caagaagcccgcgaccaagcagcgccgcgtggtcgtgaccggcatgggcgtcgtgacccccctgggccacgaccccgacgtg
                                                  370

tattataacaacctgctggacggcatctcgggcatctccgagatcgagaacttcgactgcagccagttccccacccgcatcgcc
ggcgagatcaagtcgttctccaccgacggctgggtcgcgcccaagttcagcgagcgcatggacaagttcatgctgtatatgct
gaccgccggcaagaaggcgctggccgacggcggcatcaccgaggacgcgatgaaggagctgaacaagcgcaagtgcggc
gtgctgatcggctcgggcctgggcggcatgaaggtcttctccgacagcatcgaggccctgcgcacctcgtataagaagatctcc
cccttctgcgtgcccttcagcaccaccaacatgggctcggcgatcctggcgatggacctgggctggatgggccccaactattcca
tcagcaccgcgtgcgccacctcgaacttctgcatcctgaacgcggccaaccacatcatcaagggcgaggcggacatgatgctg
tgcggcggctccgacgccgcggtgctgcccgtcggcctgggcggcttcgtggcctgccgcgcgctgagccagcgcaacaacga
ccccaccaaggcctcgcgcccctgggactccaaccgcgacggcttcgtcatgggcgagggcgcgggcgtgctgctgctggag
gagctggagcacgccaagaagcgcggcgcgaccatctatgccgagttcctgggcggcagcttcacctgcgacgcgtatcaca
tgaccgagccccaccccgagggcgccggcgtcatcctgtgcatcgagaaggcgctggcccagtcgggcgtgtcccgcgagga
cgtgaactatatcaacgcgcacgccaccagcacccccgcgggcgacatcaaggagtatcaggccctggcgcactgcttcggcc
agaactcggagctgcgcgtcaactccaccaagagcatgatcggccacctgctgggcggcgccggcggcgtggaggcggtcg
ccgtggtccaggcgatccgcaccggctggatccaccccaacatcaacctggaggaccccgacgagggcgtggacgccaagct
gctggtcggccccaagaaggagaagctgaaggtgaaggtcggcctgtcgaactccttcggcttcggcggccacaacagctcg
atcctgttcgcgccctgcaacTGAtgcatacggagcgtcgtgcgggagggagtgtgccgagcggggagtcccggtctgtgcgag
gcccggcagctgacgctggcgagccgtacgccccgagggtccccctcccctcccccctcttccccttccctctgacggccgcgcctgt
ttttgcatgttcagcgaccttaaggcgctcgaccgtgccggacggactgcagccccatgtcgtagtgaccgccaatgtaagtgggct
ggcgtttccctgtacgtgagctcaacgtcactgcacgcgcaccaccctctcgaccggcaggaccaggcatcgcgagatacagcgcg
agccagacacggagtgccgagctatgcgcacgctccaactagatatcatgtggatgatgagcatgaattcctttcttgcgctatgac
acttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagacggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctcc
ttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcga
gctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcg
cctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaacactagtATGgctatcaagacgaacaggcagcctgtggagaagcctccgtt
cacgatcgggacgctgcgcaaggccatccccgcgcactgtttcgagcgctcggcgcttcgtgggcgcgcccagctgcccgact
ggagccgcctgctgaccgccatcaccaccgtgttcgtgaagtccaagcgccccgacatgcacgaccgcaagtccaagcgcccc
gacatgctggtggacagcttcggcctggagtccaccgtgcaggacggcctggtgttccgccagtccttctccatccgctcctacg
agatcggcaccgaccgcaccgccagcatcgagaccctgatgaaccacctgcaggagacctccctgaaccactgcaagagcac
cggcatcctgctggacggcttcggccgcaccctggagatgtgcaagcgcgacctgatctgggtggtgatcaagatgcagatca
aggtgaaccgctaccccgcctggggcgacaccgtggagatcaacacccgcttcagccgcctgggcaagatcggcatgggccg
cgactggctgatctccgactgcaacaccggcgagatcctggtgcgcgccaccagcgcctacgccatgatgaaccagaagacc
cgccgcctgtccaagctgccctacgaggtgcaccaggagatcgtgcccctgttcgtggacagccccgtgatcgaggactccga
cctgaaggtgcacaagttcaaggtgaagaccggcgacagcatccagaagggcctgacccccggctggaacgacctggacgt
gaaccagcacgtgtccaacgtgaagtacatcggctggatcctggagagcatgcccaccgaggtgctggagacccaggagct
gtgctccctggccctggagtaccgccgcgagtgcggccgcgactccgtgctggagagcgtgaccgccatggaccccagcaag
gtgggcgtgcgctcccagtaccagcacctgctgcgcctggaggacggcaccgccatcgtgaacggcgccaccgagtggcgcc
ccaagaacgccggcgccaacggcgccatctccaccggcaagaccagcaacggcaactccgtgtccatggactacaaggacc
acgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGActcga_gjgcagcagcagctcggata
gtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatc
aaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatcc
ccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcact~
cccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaa
gtagtggga tggga aca ca aatggala agcttgagctc
SEQ ID NO: 249
coding region for C. lanceolata ClO:O specific thioesterase with UTEX 1435 Li12 fatty acid
desaturase
                                             371

actagtATGgctatcaagacgaacaggcagcctgtggagaagcctccgttcacgatcgggacgctgcgcaaggccatcccc
gcgcactgtttcgagcgctcggcgcttcgtgqqcqcqcccccgcgaacggcagcgcggtgaacctgaagtcgggctccctgaa
cacccaggaggacacgagctcgtccccccccccccgcgcgttcctgaaccagctgcccgactggagcatgctgctgaccgcgat
caccaccgtcttcgtggcggcggagaagcagtggacgatgctggaccgcaagtcgaagcgccccgacatgctggtggactcc
gtcggcctgaagagcatcgtgcgcgacggcctggtctcgcgccagtccttcctgatccgcagctacgagatcggcgcggaccg
caccgcgtcgatcgagaccctgatgaaccacctgcaggagacgtccatcaaccactgcaagagcctgggcctgctgaacgac
ggcttcggccgcacccccggcatgtgcaagaacgacctgatctgggtgctgaccaagatgcagatcatggtcaaccgctaccc
cacgtggggcgacaccgtcgagatcaacacgtggttctcgcagtccggcaagatcggcatggcgagcgactggctgatctcg
gactgcaacaccggcgagatcctgatccgcgcgacctccgtgtgggcgatgatgaaccagaagacgcgccgcttcagccgcc
tgccctacgaggtccgccaggagctgaccccccacttcgtggactcgccccacgtcatcgaggacaacgaccagaagctgcac
aagttcgacgtgaagaccggcgactccatccgcaagggcctgacgccccgctggaacgacctggacgtcaaccagcacgtgt
cgaacgtgaagtacatcggctggatcctggagtccatgcccatcgaggtcctggagacccaggagctgtgctcgctgaccgtg
gagtaccgccgcgagtgcggcatggactccgtgctggagtcggtcacggcggtggaccccagcgagaacggcggccgcagc
cagtacaagcacctgctgcgcctggaggacggcaccgacatcgtcaagtcgcgcaccgagtggcgccccaagaacgcgggc
acgaacggcgcgatctccaccagcaccgcgaagacgtcgaacggcaactccgcgagcgatgacgatgacaagctgggaTG
Actcgag
SEQ ID NO: 250
U. californica C12:0 specific thioesterase construct
ggtacccgcctgcaacgcaagggcagccacagccgctcccacccgccgctgaaccgacacgtgcttgggcgcctgccgcctgcctg
ccgcatgcttgtgctggtgaggctgggcagtgctgccatgctgattgaggcttggttcatcgggtggaagcttatgtgtgtgctgggct
tgcatgccgggcaatgcgcatggtggcaagagggcggcagcacttgctggagctgccgcggtgcctccaggtggttcaatcgcggc
agccagagggatttcagatgatcgcgcgtacaggttgagcagcagtgtcagcaaaggtagcagtttgccagaatgatcggttcagc
tgttaatcaatgccagcaagagaaggggtcaagtgcaaacacgggcatgccacagcacgggcaccggggagtggaatggcacca
ccaagtgtgtgcgagccagcatcgccgcctggctgtttcagctacaacggcaggagtcatccaacgtaaccatgagctgatcaaca
ctgcaatcatcgggcgggcgtgatgcaagcatgcctggcgaagacacatggtgtgcggatgctgccggctgctgcctgctgcgcac
gccgttgagttggcagcaggctcagccatgcactggatggcagctgggctgccactgcaatgtggtggataggatgcaagtggagc
gaataccaaaccctctggctgcttgctgggttgcatggcatcgcaccatcagcaggagcgcatgcgaagggactggccccatgcac
gccatgccaaaccggagcgcaccgagtgtccacactgtcaccaggcccgcaagctttgcagaaccatgctcatggacgcatgtagc
gctgacgtcccttgacggcgctcctctcgggtgtgggaaacgcaatgcagcacaggcagcagaggcggcggcagcagagcggcgg
cagcagcggcgggggccacccttcttgcggggtcgcgccccagccagcggtgatgcgctgatcccaaacgagttcacattcatttgc
atgcctggagaagcgaggctggggcctttgggctggtgcagcccgcaatggaatgcgggaccgccaggctagcagcaaaggcgcc
tcccctactccgcatcgatgttccatagtgcattggactgcatttgggtggggcggccggctgtttctttcgtgttgcaaaacgcgcca
gctcagcaacctgtcccgtgggtcccccgtgccgatgaaatcgtgtgcacgccgatcagctgattgcccggctcgcgaagtaggcgc
cctcctttctgctcgccctctctccgtcccgcctctagaatatcaATGatcgagcaggacggcctccacgccggctcccccgccgc
ctgggtggagcgcctgttcggctacgactgggcccagcagaccatcggctgctccgacgccgccgtgttccgcctgtccgccca
gggccgccccgtgctgttcgtgaagaccgacctgtccggcgccctgaacgagctgcaggacgaggccgcccgcctgtcctggc
tggccaccaccggcgtgccctgcgccgccgtgctggacgtggtgaccgaggccggccgcgactggctgctgctgggcgaggt
gcccggccaggacctgctgtcctcccacctggcccccgccgagaaggtgtccatcatggccgacgccatgcgccgcctgcacac
cctggaccccgccacctgccccttcgaccaccaggccaagcaccgcatcgagcgcgcccgcacccgcatggaggccggcctgg
tggaccaggacgacctggacgaggagcaccagggcctggcccccgccgagctgttcgcccgcctgaaggcccgcatgcccga
cggcgaggacctggtggtgacccacggcgacgcctgcctgcccaacatcatggtggagaacggccgcttctccggcttcatcg
actgcggccgcctgggcgtggccgaccgctaccaggacatcgccctggccacccgcgacatcgccgaggagctgggcggcga
gtgggccgaccgcttcctggtgctgtacggcatcgccgcccccgactcccagcgcatcgccttctaccgcctgctggacgagttct
tcTGA caattggcag cag cag ctcggatagta tcga ca ca ctctgga cgctggtcgtgtga tgga ctgttgccg cca ca cttg ctg
ccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgc
                                                372

ttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgc
tatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctg
taaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaggatcccgcgtctcgaacagagcgcgc
agaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataaccacctgacgaatgcgcttggttcttcgt
ccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaatgatcggtggagctgatggtcgaaacgt
tcacagcctagggatatc~ctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagacggcttcccggcgc
tgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgt
ttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcactaccacttctacac
aggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaac~tATGgcc
accgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgcccagcgagg
cccctccccgtgcgcgqqcqcqcccccgactggtccatgctgttcgccgtgatcaccaccatcttcagcgccgccgagaagcagt
ggaccaacctggagtggaagcccaagcccaagctgccccagctgctggacgaccacttcggcctgcacggcctggtgttccgc
cgcaccttcgccatccgctcctacgaggtgggccccgaccgcagcacctccatcctggccgtgatgaaccacatgcaggaggcc
accctgaaccacgccaagagcgtgggcatcctgggcgacggcttcggcaccaccctggagatgtccaagcgcgacctgatgt
gggtggtgcgccgcacccacgtggccgtggagcgctaccccacctggggcgacaccgtggaggtggagtgctggatcggcg
ccagcggcaacaacggcatgcgccgcgacttcctggtgcgcgactgcaagaccggcgagatcctgacccgctgcacctccctg
agcgtgctgatgaacacccgcacccgccgcctgagcaccatccccgacgaggtgcgcggcgagatcggccccgccttcatcga
caacgtggccgtgaaggacgacgagatcaagaagctgcagaagctgaacgactccaccgccgactacatccagggcggcct
gaccccccgctggaacgacctggacgtgaaccagcacgtgaacaacctgaagtacgtggcctgggtgttcgagaccgtgccc
gacagcatcttcgagtcccaccacatcagctccttcaccctggagtaccgccgcgagtgcacccgcgactccgtgctgcgcagc
ctgaccaccgtgagcggcggcagctccgaggccggcctggtgtgcgaccacctgctgcagctggagggcggcagcgaggtg
ctgcgcgcccgcaccgagtggcgccccaagctgaccgactccttccgcggcatcagcgtgatccccgccgagccccgcgtgatg
gactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGActcgaggcag
cagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaata
tccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaa
taccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctg
ctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgc
aatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaaagcttgagctc
SEQ ID NO: 251
coding region for U. californica C12:0 specific thioesterase (codon-optimized)
ATGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgccca
gcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgqqcqcqcccccgactggtccatgctgttcgccgtgatcaccaccatcttcagcgccgccgag
aagcagtggaccaacctggagtggaagcccaagcccaagctgccccagctgctggacgaccacttcggcctgcacggcctgg
tgttccgccgcaccttcgccatccgctcctacgaggtgggccccgaccgcagcacctccatcctggccgtgatgaaccacatgca
ggaggccaccctgaaccacgccaagagcgtgggcatcctgggcgacggcttcggcaccaccctggagatgtccaagcgcga
cctgatgtgggtggtgcgccgcacccacgtggccgtggagcgctaccccacctggggcgacaccgtggaggtggagtgctgg
atcggcgccagcggcaacaacggcatgcgccgcgacttcctggtgcgcgactgcaagaccggcgagatcctgacccgctgca
cctccctgagcgtgctgatgaacacccgcacccgccgcctgagcaccatccccgacgaggtgcgcggcgagatcggccccgcc
ttcatcgacaacgtggccgtgaaggacgacgagatcaagaagctgcagaagctgaacgactccaccgccgactacatccag
ggcggcctgaccccccgctggaacgacctggacgtgaaccagcacgtgaacaacctgaagtacgtggcctgggtgttcgaga
ccgtgcccgacagcatcttcgagtcccaccacatcagctccttcaccctggagtaccgccgcgagtgcacccgcgactccgtgct
gcgcagcctgaccaccgtgagcggcggcagctccgaggccggcctggtgtgcgaccacctgctgcagctggagggcggcag
cgaggtgctgcgcgcccgcaccgagtggcgccccaagctgaccgactccttccgcggcatcagcgtgatccccgccgagcccc
gcgtgatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGA
                                              373

SEQ ID NO: 252
G. mangostana C16:0 thioesterase construct
gctcttcgccgccgccactcctgctcgagcgcgcccgcgcgtgcgccgccagcgccttggccttttcgccgcgctcgtgcgcgtcgct
gatgtccatcaccaggtccatgaggtctgccttgcgccggctgagccactgcttcgtccgggcggccaagaggagcatgagggag
gactcctggtccagggtcctgacgtggtcgcggctctgggagcgggccagcatcatctggctctgccgcaccgaggccgcctccaa
ctggtcctccagcagccgcagtcgccgccgaccctggcagaggaagacaggtgaggggggtatgaattgtacagaacaaccacg
agccttgtctaggcagaatccctaccagtcatggctttacctggatgacggcctgcgaacagctgtccagcgaccctcgctgccgcc
gcttctcccgcacgcttctttccagcaccgtgatggcgcgagccagcgccgcacgctggcgctgcgcttcgccgatctgaggacagt
cggggaactctgatcagtctaaacccccttgcgcgttagtgttgccatcctttgcagaccggtgagagccgacttgttgtgcgccac
cccccacaccacctcctcccagaccaattctgtcacctttttggcgaaggcatcggcctcggcctgcagagaggacagcagtgccc
agccgctgggggttggcggatgcacgctca~ctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagac
ggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctcca
gggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcac
taccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaa
dtcta_gaatatcaA TGctgctgcaggccttcctgttcctgctggccggcttcgccgccaagatcagcgcctccatgacgaacga
gacgtccgaccgccccctggtgcacttcacccccaacaagggctggatgaacgaccccaacggcctgtggtacgacgagaag
gacgccaagtggcacctgtacttccagtacaacccgaacgacaccgtctgggggacgcccttgttctggggccacgccacgtc
cgacgacctgaccaactgggaggaccagcccatcgccatcgccccgaagcgcaacgactccggcgccttctccggctccatgg
tggtggactacaacaacacctccggcttcttcaacgacaccatcgacccgcgccagcgctgcgtggccatctggacctacaaca
ccccggagtccgaggagcagtacatctcctacagcctggacggcggctacaccttcaccgagtaccagaagaaccccgtgctg
gccgccaactccacccagttccgcgacccgaaggtcttctggtacgagccctcccagaagtggatcatgaccgcggccaagtc
ccaggactacaagatcgagatctactcctccgacgacctgaagtcctggaagctggagtccgcgttcgccaacgagggcttcc
tcggctaccagtacgagtgccccggcctgatcgaggtccccaccgagcaggaccccagcaagtcctactgggtgatgttcatct
ccatcaaccccggcgccccggccggcggctccttcaaccagtacttcgtcggcagcttcaacggcacccacttcgaggccttcga
caaccagtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaaggactactacgccctgcagaccttcttcaacaccgacccgacctacgggagcg
ccctgggcatcgcgtgggcctccaactgggagtactccgccttcgtgcccaccaacccctggcgctcctccatgtccctcgtgcgc
aagttctccctcaacaccgagtaccaggccaacccggagacggagctgatcaacctgaaggccgagccgatcctgaacatca
gcaacgccggcccctggagccggttcgccaccaacaccacgttgacgaaggccaacagctacaacgtcgacctgtccaacag
caccggcaccctggagttcgagctggtgtacgccgtcaacaccacccagacgatctccaagtccgtgttcgcggacctctccctc
tggttcaagggcctggaggaccccgaggagtacctccgcatgggcttcgaggtgtccgcgtcctccttcttcctggaccgcggg
aacagcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggagaacccctacttcaccaaccgcatgagcgtgaacaaccagcccttcaagagcgag
aacgacctgtcctactacaaggtgtacggcttgctggaccagaacatcctggagctgtacttcaacgacggcgacgtcgtgtcc
accaacacctacttcatgaccaccgggaacgccctgggctccgtgaacatgacgacgggggtggacaacctgttctacatcga
caagttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTGAcaattggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtga
tggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtac
gcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaacc
gcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgt
attctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaggatccc
gcgtctcgaacagagcgcgcagaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataaccacctga
cgaatgcgcttggttcttcgtccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaatgatcggt
ggagctgatggtcgaaacgttcacagcctagggatatcgaattdggccgacaggacgcgcgtcaaaggtgctggtcgtgtatgc
cctggccggcaggtcgttgctgctgctggttagtgattccgcaaccctgattttggcgtcttattttggcgtggcaaacgctggcg
cccgcgagccgggccggcggcgatgcggtgccccacggctgccggaatccaagggaggcaagagcgcccgggtcagttga
agggctttacgcgcaaggtacagccgctcctgcaaggctgcgtggtggaattggacgtgcaggtcctgctgaagttcctccac
cgcctcaccagcggacaaagcaccggtgtatcaggtccgtgtcatccactctaaagaactcgactacgacctactgatggccct
agattcttcatcaaaaacgcctgagacacttgcccaggattgaaactccctgaagggaccaccaggggccctgagttgttcctt
                                            374

ccccccgtggcgagctgccagccaggctgtacctgtgatcgaggctggcgggaaaataggcttcgtgtgctcaggtcatggg
aggtgcaggacagctcatgaaacgccaacaatcgcacaattcatgtcaagctaatcagctatttcctcttcacgagctgtaatt
gtcccaaaattctggtctaccgggggtgatccttcgtgtacgggcccttccctcaaccctaggtatgcgcgcatgcggtcgccgc
gcaactcgcgcgagggccgagggtttgggacgggccgtcccgaaatgcagttgcacccggatgcgtggcaccttttttgcgat
aatttatgcaatggactgctctgcaaaattctggctctgtcgccaaccctaggatcagcggcgtaggatttcgtaatcattcgtc
ctgatggggagctaccgactaccctaatatcagcccgactgcctgacgccagcgtccacttttgtgcacacattccattcgtgcc
caagacatttcattgtggtgcgaagcgtccccagttacgctcacctgtttcccgacctccttactgttctgtcgacagagcgggcc
cacaggccggtcgcagcdacta2tATGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctc
ggcgggctccgggccccggcgcccagcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgggcgcgccgccaacgcccaggcccccaccaagatc
aacggctccaccgacgacgcccagctgcccgccccccgcaccttcatcaaccagctgcccgactggtccatgctgctggccgcc
atcaccaccgtgttcctggccgccgagaagcagtggatgatgctggactggaagccccgccgccccgacatgctgatcgac
accttcggcctgggccgcatcgtgcaggacggcctggtgttccgccagaacttctccatccgctcctacgagatcggcgccga
ccgcaccgcctccatcgagaccgtgatgaaccacctgcaggagaccgccctgaaccacgtgaagaccgccggcctgctggg
cgacggcttcggctccacccccgagatgtccaagcgcaacctgatctgggtggtgaccaagatgcaggtggaggtggaccg
ctaccccacctggggcgacgtggtgcaggtggacacctgggtgtccgcctccggcaagaacggcatgcgccgcgactggct
gctgcgcgacggcaacaccggcgagaccctgacccgcgcctcctccgtgtgggtgatgatgaacaagctgacccgccgcct
gtccaagatccccgaggaggtgcgcgaggagatcggctcctacttcgtgaactccgaccccgtggtggaggaggacggcc
gcaaggtgaccaagctggacgacaacaccgccgacttcgtgcgcaagggcctgacccccaagtggaacgacctggacatc
aaccagcacgtgaacaacgtgaagtacatcggctggatcctggagtccgccccccagcccatcctggagacccgcgagctg
tccgccgtgaccctggagtaccgccgcgagtgcggccgcgactccgtgctgcgctccctgaccgccgtgtccggcggcggcgt
gggcgacctgggccacgccggcaacgtggagtgccagcacgtgctgcgcctggaggacggcgccgagatcgtgcgcggc
cgcaccgagtggcgccccaagtacatcaacaacttctccatcatgggccagatccccaccgacgcctccatggactacaagg
accacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGAatcgatagatctcttaaggc
agcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaat
atccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaa
taccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgc
tcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaa
tgctga tgca cggga agta gtgggatggga aca ca aatgga a ag ctta atta agagctcttgttttccagaaggagttgctccttg
agcctttcattctcagcctcgataacctccaaagccgctctaattgtggagggggttcgaatttaaaagcttggaatgttggttcgtg
cgtctggaacaagcccagacttgttgctcactgggaaaaggaccatcagctccaaaaaacttgccgctcaaaccgcgtacctctg
ctttcgcgcaatctgccctgttgaaatcgccaccacattcatattgtgacgcttgagcagtctgtaattgcctcagaatgtggaatca
tctgccccctgtgcgagcccatgccaggcatgtcgcgggcgaggacacccgccactcgtacagcagaccattatgctacctcacaa
tagttcataacagtgaccatatttctcgaagctccccaacgagcacctccatgctctgagtggccaccccccggccctggtgcttgc
ggagggcaggtcaaccggcatggggctaccgaaatccccgaccggatcccaccacccccgcgatgggaagaatctctccccggg
atgtgggcccaccaccagcacaacctgctggcccaggcgagcgtcaaaccataccacacaaatatccttggcatcggccctgaat
tccttctgccgctctgctacccggtgcttctgtccgaagcaggggttgctagggatcgctccgagtccgcaaacccttgtcgcgtggc
ggggcttgttcgagcttgaagagc
SEQ ID NO: 253
coding region for G. mangostana C16:0 thioesterase (codon-optimized)
A TGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgccc
agcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgggcgcgccgccaacgcccaggcccccaccaagatcaacggctccaccgacgacgccca
gctgcccgccccccgcaccttcatcaaccagctgcccgactggtccatgctgctggccgccatcaccaccgtgttcctggccgcc
gagaagcagtggatgatgctggactggaagccccgccgccccgacatgctgatcgacaccttcggcctgggccgcatcgtg
caggacggcctggtgttccgccagaacttctccatccgctcctacgagatcggcgccgaccgcaccgcctccatcgagaccgt
gatgaaccacctgcaggagaccgccctgaaccacgtgaagaccgccggcctgctgggcgacggcttcggctccacccccga
                                                 375

gatgtccaagcgcaacctgatctgggtggtgaccaagatgcaggtggaggtggaccgctaccccacctggggcgacgtgg
tgcaggtggacacctgggtgtccgcctccggcaagaacggcatgcgccgcgactggctgctgcgcgacggcaacaccggc
gagaccctgacccgcgcctcctccgtgtgggtgatgatgaacaagctgacccgccgcctgtccaagatccccgaggaggtgc
gcgaggagatcggctcctacttcgtgaactccgaccccgtggtggaggaggacggccgcaaggtgaccaagctggacgac
aacaccgccgacttcgtgcgcaagggcctgacccccaagtggaacgacctggacatcaaccagcacgtgaacaacgtgaa
gtacatcggctggatcctggagtccgccccccagcccatcctggagacccgcgagctgtccgccgtgaccctggagtaccgcc
gcgagtgcggccgcgactccgtgctgcgctccctgaccgccgtgtccggcggcggcgtgggcgacctgggccacgccggca
acgtggagtgccagcacgtgctgcgcctggaggacggcgccgagatcgtgcgcggccgcaccgagtggcgccccaagtac
atcaacaacttctccatcatgggccagatccccaccgacgcctccatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggac
cacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGA
SEQ ID NO: 254
B. napus C18:0 thioesterase construct
gctcttcgccgccgccactcctgctcgagcgcgcccgcgcgtgcgccgccagcgccttggccttttcgccgcgctcgtgcgcgtcgct
gatgtccatcaccaggtccatgaggtctgccttgcgccggctgagccactgcttcgtccgggcggccaagaggagcatgagggag
gactcctggtccagggtcctgacgtggtcgcggctctgggagcgggccagcatcatctggctctgccgcaccgaggccgcctccaa
ctggtcctccagcagccgcagtcgccgccgaccctggcagaggaagacaggtgaggggggtatgaattgtacagaacaaccacg
agccttgtctaggcagaatccctaccagtcatggctttacctggatgacggcctgcgaacagctgtccagcgaccctcgctgccgcc
gcttctcccgcacgcttctttccagcaccgtgatggcgcgagccagcgccgcacgctggcgctgcgcttcgccgatctgaggacagt
cggggaactctgatcagtctaaacccccttgcgcgttagtgttgccatcctttgcagaccggtgagagccgacttgttgtgcgccac
cccccacaccacctcctcccagaccaattctgtcacctttttggcgaaggcatcggcctcggcctgcagagaggacagcagtgccc
agccgctgggggttggcggatgcacgctcaggtaccktttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagac
ggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctcca
gggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcac
taccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaa
d1:u:1ce:ce:ccA TGctgctgcaggccttcctgttcctgctggccggcttcgccgccaagatcagcgcctccatgacgaacgagac
gtccgaccgccccctggtgcacttcacccccaacaagggctggatgaacgaccccaacggcctgtggtacgacgagaaggac
gccaagtggcacctgtacttccagtacaacccgaacgacaccgtctgggggacgcccttgttctggggccacgccacgtccga
cgacctgaccaactgggaggaccagcccatcgccatcgccccgaagcgcaacgactccggcgccttctccggctccatggtgg
tggactacaacaacacctccggcttcttcaacgacaccatcgacccgcgccagcgctgcgtggccatctggacctacaacaccc
cggagtccgaggagcagtacatctcctacagcctggacggcggctacaccttcaccgagtaccagaagaaccccgtgctggc
cgccaactccacccagttccgcgacccgaaggtcttctggtacgagccctcccagaagtggatcatgaccgcggccaagtccc
aggactacaagatcgagatctactcctccgacgacctgaagtcctggaagctggagtccgcgttcgccaacgagggcttcctc
ggctaccagtacgagtgccccggcctgatcgaggtccccaccgagcaggaccccagcaagtcctactgggtgatgttcatctcc
atcaaccccggcgccccggccggcggctccttcaaccagtacttcgtcggcagcttcaacggcacccacttcgaggccttcgac
aaccagtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaaggactactacgccctgcagaccttcttcaacaccgacccgacctacgggagcgc
cctgggcatcgcgtgggcctccaactgggagtactccgccttcgtgcccaccaacccctggcgctcctccatgtccctcgtgcgca
agttctccctcaacaccgagtaccaggccaacccggagacggagctgatcaacctgaaggccgagccgatcctgaacatcag
caacgccggcccctggagccggttcgccaccaacaccacgttgacgaaggccaacagctacaacgtcgacctgtccaacagc
accggcaccctggagttcgagctggtgtacgccgtcaacaccacccagacgatctccaagtccgtgttcgcggacctctccctct
ggttcaagggcctggaggaccccgaggagtacctccgcatgggcttcgaggtgtccgcgtcctccttcttcctggaccgcggga
acagcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggagaacccctacttcaccaaccgcatgagcgtgaacaaccagcccttcaagagcgaga
acgacctgtcctactacaaggtgtacggcttgctggaccagaacatcctggagctgtacttcaacgacggcgacgtcgtgtcca
ccaacacctacttcatgaccaccgggaacgccctgggctccgtgaacatgacgacgggggtggacaacctgttctacatcgac
aagttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTGAcaattggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgat
ggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtac
                                                376

gcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaacc
gcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgt
attctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaggatccc
gcgtctcgaacagagcgcgcagaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataaccacctga
cgaatgcgcttggttcttcgtccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaatgatcggt
ggagctgatggtcgaaacgttcacagcctagggatatc~ggccgacaggacgcgcgtcaaaggtgctggtcgtgtatgc
cctggccggcaggtcgttgctgctgctggttagtgattccgcaaccctgattttggcgtcttattttggcgtggcaaacgctggcg
cccgcgagccgggccggcggcgatgcggtgccccacggctgccggaatccaagggaggcaagagcgcccgggtcagttga
agggctttacgcgcaaggtacagccgctcctgcaaggctgcgtggtggaattggacgtgcaggtcctgctgaagttcctccac
cgcctcaccagcggacaaagcaccggtgtatcaggtccgtgtcatccactctaaagaactcgactacgacctactgatggccct
agattcttcatcaaaaacgcctgagacacttgcccaggattgaaactccctgaagggaccaccaggggccctgagttgttcctt
ccccccgtggcgagctgccagccaggctgtacctgtgatcgaggctggcgggaaaataggcttcgtgtgctcaggtcatggg
aggtgcaggacagctcatgaaacgccaacaatcgcacaattcatgtcaagctaatcagctatttcctcttcacgagctgtaatt
gtcccaaaattctggtctaccgggggtgatccttcgtgtacgggcccttccctcaaccctaggtatgcgcgcatgcggtcgccgc
gcaactcgcgcgagggccgagggtttgggacgggccgtcccgaaatgcagttgcacccggatgcgtggcaccttttttgcgat
aatttatgcaatggactgctctgcaaaattctggctctgtcgccaaccctaggatcagcggcgtaggatttcgtaatcattcgtc
ctgatggggagctaccgactaccctaatatcagcccgactgcctgacgccagcgtccacttttgtgcacacattccattcgtgcc
caagacatttcattgtggtgcgaagcgtccccagttacgctcacctgtttcccgacctccttactgttctgtcgacagagcgggcc
cacaggccggtcgcagcdactae:tA TGctgaagctgtcctgcaacgtgaccaacaacctgcacaccttctccttcttctccgac
tcctccctgttcatccccgtgaaccgccgcaccatcgccgtgtcctccgggcgcgcctcccagctgcgcaagcccgccctggacc
ccctgcgcgccgtgatctccgccgaccagggctccatctcccccgtgaactcctgcacccccgccgaccgcctgcgcgccggcc
gcctgatggaggacggctactcctacaaggagaagttcatcgtgcgctcctacgaggtgggcatcaacaagaccgccaccg
tggagaccatcgccaacctgctgcaggaggtggcctgcaaccacgtgcagaagtgcggcttctccaccgacggcttcgccac
caccctgaccatgcgcaagctgcacctgatctgggtgaccgcccgcatgcacatcgagatctacaagtaccccgcctggtccg
acgtggtggagatcgagacctggtgccagtccgagggccgcatcggcacccgccgcgactggatcctgcgcgactccgcca
ccaacgaggtgatcggccgcgccacctccaagtgggtgatgatgaaccaggacacccgccgcctgcagcgcgtgaccgac
gaggtgcgcgacgagtacctggtgttctgcccccgcgagccccgcctggccttccccgaggagaacaactcctccctgaaga
agatccccaagctggaggaccccgcccagtactccatgctggagctgaagccccgccgcgccgacctggacatgaaccagc
acgtgaacaacgtgacctacatcggctgggtgctggagtccatcccccaggagatcatcgacacccacgagctgcaggtga
tcaccctggactaccgccgcgagtgccagcaggacgacatcgtggactccctgaccacctccgagatccccgacgaccccat
ctccaagttcaccggcaccaacggctccgccatgtcctccatccagggccacaacgagtcccagttcctgcacatgctgcgcct
gtccgagaacggccaggagatcaaccgcggccgcacccagtggcgcaagaagtcctcccgcatggactacaaggaccac
gacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGAatcgatagatctcttaaggca~
cagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccct
gccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccac
ccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgct
cctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctga
tgca cggga agtagtggga tggga aca ca aatggaa ag ctta attaagagctcttgttttccagaaggagttgctccttgagccttt
cattctcagcctcgataacctccaaagccgctctaattgtggagggggttcgaatttaaaagcttggaatgttggttcgtgcgtctg
gaacaagcccagacttgttgctcactgggaaaaggaccatcagctccaaaaaacttgccgctcaaaccgcgtacctctgctttcgc
gcaatctgccctgttgaaatcgccaccacattcatattgtgacgcttgagcagtctgtaattgcctcagaatgtggaatcatctgccc
cctgtgcgagcccatgccaggcatgtcgcgggcgaggacacccgccactcgtacagcagaccattatgctacctcacaatagttca
taacagtgaccatatttctcgaagctccccaacgagcacctccatgctctgagtggccaccccccggccctggtgcttgcggagggc
aggtcaaccggcatggggctaccgaaatccccgaccggatcccaccacccccgcgatgggaagaatctctccccgggatgtgggc
ccaccaccagcacaacctgctggcccaggcgagcgtcaaaccataccacacaaatatccttggcatcggccctgaattccttctgc
                                                 377

cgctctgctacccggtgcttctgtccgaagcaggggttgctagggatcgctccgagtccgcaaacccttgtcgcgtggcggggcttg
ttcgagcttgaagagc
SEQ ID NO: 255
coding region for B. napus C18:0 thioesterase (codon-optimized)
ATGctgaagctgtcctgcaacgtgaccaacaacctgcacaccttctccttcttctccgactcctccctgttcatccccgtgaaccgc
cgcaccatcgccgtgtcctccgggcgcgcctcccagctgcgcaagcccgccctggaccccctgcgcgccgtgatctccgccgacc
agggctccatctcccccgtgaactcctgcacccccgccgaccgcctgcgcgccggccgcctgatggaggacggctactcctaca
aggagaagttcatcgtgcgctcctacgaggtgggcatcaacaagaccgccaccgtggagaccatcgccaacctgctgcagga
ggtggcctgcaaccacgtgcagaagtgcggcttctccaccgacggcttcgccaccaccctgaccatgcgcaagctgcacctgat
ctgggtgaccgcccgcatgcacatcgagatctacaagtaccccgcctggtccgacgtggtggagatcgagacctggtgccagt
ccgagggccgcatcggcacccgccgcgactggatcctgcgcgactccgccaccaacgaggtgatcggccgcgccacctccaa
gtgggtgatgatgaaccaggacacccgccgcctgcagcgcgtgaccgacgaggtgcgcgacgagtacctggtgttctgcccc
cgcgagccccgcctggccttccccgaggagaacaactcctccctgaagaagatccccaagctggaggaccccgcccagtactc
catgctggagctgaagccccgccgcgccgacctggacatgaaccagcacgtgaacaacgtgacctacatcggctgggtgctg
gagtccatcccccaggagatcatcgacacccacgagctgcaggtgatcaccctggactaccgccgcgagtgccagcaggacg
acatcgtggactccctgaccacctccgagatccccgacgaccccatctccaagttcaccggcaccaacggctccgccatgtcctc
catccagggccacaacgagtcccagttcctgcacatgctgcgcctgtccgagaacggccaggagatcaaccgcggccgcacc
cagtggcgcaagaagtcctcccgcatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaagga
cgacgacgacaagTGA
SEQ ID NO: 256
0. europaea stearoyl-ACP desaturase construct
gctcttcgccgccgccactcctgctcgagcgcgcccgcgcgtgcgccgccagcgccttggccttttcgccgcgctcgtgcgcgtcgct
gatgtccatcaccaggtccatgaggtctgccttgcgccggctgagccactgcttcgtccgggcggccaagaggagcatgagggag
gactcctggtccagggtcctgacgtggtcgcggctctgggagcgggccagcatcatctggctctgccgcaccgaggccgcctccaa
ctggtcctccagcagccgcagtcgccgccgaccctggcagaggaagacaggtgaggggggtatgaattgtacagaacaaccacg
agccttgtctaggcagaatccctaccagtcatggctttacctggatgacggcctgcgaacagctgtccagcgaccctcgctgccgcc
gcttctcccgcacgcttctttccagcaccgtgatggcgcgagccagcgccgcacgctggcgctgcgcttcgccgatctgaggacagt
cggggaactctgatcagtctaaacccccttgcgcgttagtgttgccatcctttgcagaccggtgagagccgacttgttgtgcgccac
cccccacaccacctcctcccagaccaattctgtcacctttttggcgaaggcatcggcctcggcctgcagagaggacagcagtgccc
agccgctgggggttggcggatgcacgctcaggtacclctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagac
ggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctcca
gggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcac
taccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaa
9tctagaatatcaA TGctgctgcaggccttcctgttcctgctggccggcttcgccgccaagatcagcgcctccatgacgaacga
gacgtccgaccgccccctggtgcacttcacccccaacaagggctggatgaacgaccccaacggcctgtggtacgacgagaag
gacgccaagtggcacctgtacttccagtacaacccgaacgacaccgtctgggggacgcccttgttctggggccacgccacgtc
cgacgacctgaccaactgggaggaccagcccatcgccatcgccccgaagcgcaacgactccggcgccttctccggctccatgg
tggtggactacaacaacacctccggcttcttcaacgacaccatcgacccgcgccagcgctgcgtggccatctggacctacaaca
ccccggagtccgaggagcagtacatctcctacagcctggacggcggctacaccttcaccgagtaccagaagaaccccgtgctg
gccgccaactccacccagttccgcgacccgaaggtcttctggtacgagccctcccagaagtggatcatgaccgcggccaagtc
ccaggactacaagatcgagatctactcctccgacgacctgaagtcctggaagctggagtccgcgttcgccaacgagggcttcc
tcggctaccagtacgagtgccccggcctgatcgaggtccccaccgagcaggaccccagcaagtcctactgggtgatgttcatct
ccatcaaccccggcgccccggccggcggctccttcaaccagtacttcgtcggcagcttcaacggcacccacttcgaggccttcga
                                             378

caaccagtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaaggactactacgccctgcagaccttcttcaacaccgacccgacctacgggagcg
ccctgggcatcgcgtgggcctccaactgggagtactccgccttcgtgcccaccaacccctggcgctcctccatgtccctcgtgcgc
aagttctccctcaacaccgagtaccaggccaacccggagacggagctgatcaacctgaaggccgagccgatcctgaacatca
gcaacgccggcccctggagccggttcgccaccaacaccacgttgacgaaggccaacagctacaacgtcgacctgtccaacag
caccggcaccctggagttcgagctggtgtacgccgtcaacaccacccagacgatctccaagtccgtgttcgcggacctctccctc
tggttcaagggcctggaggaccccgaggagtacctccgcatgggcttcgaggtgtccgcgtcctccttcttcctggaccgcggg
aacagcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggagaacccctacttcaccaaccgcatgagcgtgaacaaccagcccttcaagagcgag
aacgacctgtcctactacaaggtgtacggcttgctggaccagaacatcctggagctgtacttcaacgacggcgacgtcgtgtcc
accaacacctacttcatgaccaccgggaacgccctgggctccgtgaacatgacgacgggggtggacaacctgttctacatcga
caagttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTGAcaattggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtga
tggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtac
gcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaacc
gcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgt
attctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaggatccc
gcgtctcgaacagagcgcgcagaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataaccacctga
cgaatgcgcttggttcttcgtccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaatgatcggt
ggagctgatggtcgaaacgttcacagcctagggatatc~ctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcggg
ctgcgagacggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctcc
gatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattc
aaacacctagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgttt
cagtcacaacccgcaaadactae:tA TGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctc
ggcgggctccgggccccggcgcccagcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgggcgcgccgaggtgcacgtgcaggtgacccactc
cctggcccccgagaagcgcgagatcttcaactccctgaacaactgggcccaggagaacatcctggtgctgctgaaggacgt
ggacaagtgctggcagccctccgacttcctgcccgactccgcctccgagggcttcgacgagcaggtgatggagctgcgcaa
gcgctgcaaggagatccccgacgactacttcatcgtgctggtgggcgacatgatcaccgaggaggccctgcccacctacca
gaccatgctgaacaccctggacggcgtgcgcgacgagaccggcgcctccctgaccccctgggccatctggacccgcgcctgg
accgccgaggagaaccgccacggcgacctgctgaacaagtacctgtacctgtccggccgcgtggacatgaagcagatcga
gaagaccatccagtacctgatcggctccggcatggacccccgcaccgagaacaacccctacctgggcttcatctacacctcct
tccaggagcgcgccaccttcatctcccacggcaacaccgcccgcctggccaaggagcacggcgacctgaagctggcccaga
tctgcggcatcatcgccgccgacgagaagcgccacgagaccgcctacaccaagatcgtggagaagctgttcgagatcgac
cccgacggcaccgtgctggccctggccgacatgatgcgcaagaaggtgtccatgcccgcccacctgatgtacgacggccag
gacgacaacctgttcgagaacttctcctccgtggcccagcgcctgggcgtgtacaccgccaaggactacgccgacatcctgg
agttcctggtgggccgctgggacatcgagaagctgaccggcctgtccggcgagggccgcaaggcccaggactacgtgtgc
accctgcccccccgcatccgccgcctggaggagcgcgcccagtcccgcgtgaagaaggcctccgccacccccttctcctggatc
ttcggccgcgagatcaacctgatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacg
acgacgacaagTGAatcgatagatctcttaaggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatg
gactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacg
cgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccg
caacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgta
ttctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaaagcttaa
ttaagagctcttgttttccagaaggagttgctccttgagcctttcattctcagcctcgataacctccaaagccgctctaattgtggag
ggggttcgaatttaaaagcttggaatgttggttcgtgcgtctggaa caagcccaga cttgttgctcactgggaaaagga ccatcag
ctccaaaaaacttgccgctcaaaccgcgtacctctgctttcgcgcaatctgccctgttgaaatcgccaccacattcatattgtgacgc
ttgagcagtctgtaattgcctcagaatgtggaatcatctgccccctgtgcgagcccatgccaggcatgtcgcgggcgaggacaccc
gccactcgtacagcagaccattatgctacctcacaatagttcataacagtgaccatatttctcgaagctccccaacgagcacctcc
atgctctgagtggccaccccccggccctggtgcttgcggagggcaggtcaaccggcatggggctaccgaaatccccgaccggatc
ccaccacccccgcgatgggaagaatctctccccgggatgtgggcccaccaccagcacaacctgctggcccaggcgagcgtcaaac
                                             379

cataccacacaaatatccttggcatcggccctgaattccttctgccgctctgctacccggtgcttctgtccgaagcaggggttgctag
gga tcgctccgagtccgcaaa cccttgtcgcgtggcggggcttgttcgagcttgaagagc
SEQ ID NO: 257
coding region for 0. europaea stearoyl-ACP desaturase (codon-optimized)
A TGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgccc
agcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgggcgcgccgaggtgcacgtgcaggtgacccactccctggcccccgagaagcgcgagat
cttcaactccctgaacaactgggcccaggagaacatcctggtgctgctgaaggacgtggacaagtgctggcagccctccga
cttcctgcccgactccgcctccgagggcttcgacgagcaggtgatggagctgcgcaagcgctgcaaggagatccccgacga
ctacttcatcgtgctggtgggcgacatgatcaccgaggaggccctgcccacctaccagaccatgctgaacaccctggacggc
gtgcgcgacgagaccggcgcctccctgaccccctgggccatctggacccgcgcctggaccgccgaggagaaccgccacggc
gacctgctgaacaagtacctgtacctgtccggccgcgtggacatgaagcagatcgagaagaccatccagtacctgatcggc
tccggcatggacccccgcaccgagaacaacccctacctgggcttcatctacacctccttccaggagcgcgccaccttcatctccc
acggcaacaccgcccgcctggccaaggagcacggcgacctgaagctggcccagatctgcggcatcatcgccgccgacgag
aagcgccacgagaccgcctacaccaagatcgtggagaagctgttcgagatcgaccccgacggcaccgtgctggccctggcc
gacatgatgcgcaagaaggtgtccatgcccgcccacctgatgtacgacggccaggacgacaacctgttcgagaacttctcct
ccgtggcccagcgcctgggcgtgtacaccgccaaggactacgccgacatcctggagttcctggtgggccgctgggacatcg
agaagctgaccggcctgtccggcgagggccgcaaggcccaggactacgtgtgcaccctgcccccccgcatccgccgcctgg
aggagcgcgcccagtcccgcgtgaagaaggcctccgccacccccttctcctggatcttcggccgcgagatcaacctgatgga
ctacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGA
SEQ ID NO: 258
C. hookeriana C16:0 thioesterase construct
gctcttcgccgccgccactcctgctcgagcgcgcccgcgcgtgcgccgccagcgccttggccttttcgccgcgctcgtgcgcgtcgct
gatgtccatcaccaggtccatgaggtctgccttgcgccggctgagccactgcttcgtccgggcggccaagaggagcatgagggag
gactcctggtccagggtcctgacgtggtcgcggctctgggagcgggccagcatcatctggctctgccgcaccgaggccgcctccaa
ctggtcctccagcagccgcagtcgccgccgaccctggcagaggaagacaggtgaggggggtatgaattgtacagaacaaccacg
agccttgtctaggcagaatccctaccagtcatggctttacctggatgacggcctgcgaacagctgtccagcgaccctcgctgccgcc
gcttctcccgcacgcttctttccagcaccgtgatggcgcgagccagcgccgcacgctggcgctgcgcttcgccgatctgaggacagt
cggggaactctgatcagtctaaacccccttgcgcgttagtgttgccatcctttgcagaccggtgagagccgacttgttgtgcgccac
cccccacaccacctcctcccagaccaattctgtcacctttttggcgaaggcatcggcctcggcctgcagagaggacagcagtgccc
agccgctgggggttggcggatgcacgctcaggtacclctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagac
ggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctcca
gggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcac
taccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaa
~tctae:aatatcaATGctgctgcaggccttcctgttcctgctggccggcttcgccgccaagatcagcgcctccatgacgaacga
gacgtccgaccgccccctggtgcacttcacccccaacaagggctggatgaacgaccccaacggcctgtggtacgacgagaag
gacgccaagtggcacctgtacttccagtacaacccgaacgacaccgtctgggggacgcccttgttctggggccacgccacgtc
cgacgacctgaccaactgggaggaccagcccatcgccatcgccccgaagcgcaacgactccggcgccttctccggctccatgg
tggtggactacaacaacacctccggcttcttcaacgacaccatcgacccgcgccagcgctgcgtggccatctggacctacaaca
ccccggagtccgaggagcagtacatctcctacagcctggacggcggctacaccttcaccgagtaccagaagaaccccgtgctg
gccgccaactccacccagttccgcgacccgaaggtcttctggtacgagccctcccagaagtggatcatgaccgcggccaagtc
ccaggactacaagatcgagatctactcctccgacgacctgaagtcctggaagctggagtccgcgttcgccaacgagggcttcc
tcggctaccagtacgagtgccccggcctgatcgaggtccccaccgagcaggaccccagcaagtcctactgggtgatgttcatct
ccatcaaccccggcgccccggccggcggctccttcaaccagtacttcgtcggcagcttcaacggcacccacttcgaggccttcga
                                            380

caaccagtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaaggactactacgccctgcagaccttcttcaacaccgacccgacctacgggagcg
ccctgggcatcgcgtgggcctccaactgggagtactccgccttcgtgcccaccaacccctggcgctcctccatgtccctcgtgcgc
aagttctccctcaacaccgagtaccaggccaacccggagacggagctgatcaacctgaaggccgagccgatcctgaacatca
gcaacgccggcccctggagccggttcgccaccaacaccacgttgacgaaggccaacagctacaacgtcgacctgtccaacag
caccggcaccctggagttcgagctggtgtacgccgtcaacaccacccagacgatctccaagtccgtgttcgcggacctctccctc
tggttcaagggcctggaggaccccgaggagtacctccgcatgggcttcgaggtgtccgcgtcctccttcttcctggaccgcggg
aacagcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggagaacccctacttcaccaaccgcatgagcgtgaacaaccagcccttcaagagcgag
aacgacctgtcctactacaaggtgtacggcttgctggaccagaacatcctggagctgtacttcaacgacggcgacgtcgtgtcc
accaacacctacttcatgaccaccgggaacgccctgggctccgtgaacatgacgacgggggtggacaacctgttctacatcga
caagttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTGAcaattggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtga
tggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtac
gcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaacc
gcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgt
attctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaggatccc
gcgtctcgaacagagcgcgcagaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataaccacctga
cgaatgcgcttggttcttcgtccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaatgatcggt
ggagctgatggtcgaaacgttcacagcctagggatatc~ggccgacaggacgcgcgtcaaaggtgctggtcgtgtatgc
cctggccggcaggtcgttgctgctgctggttagtgattccgcaaccctgattttggcgtcttattttggcgtggcaaacgctggcg
cccgcgagccgggccggcggcgatgcggtgccccacggctgccggaatccaagggaggcaagagcgcccgggtcagttga
agggctttacgcgcaaggtacagccgctcctgcaaggctgcgtggtggaattggacgtgcaggtcctgctgaagttcctccac
cgcctcaccagcggacaaagcaccggtgtatcaggtccgtgtcatccactctaaagaactcgactacgacctactgatggccct
agattcttcatcaaaaacgcctgagacacttgcccaggattgaaactccctgaagggaccaccaggggccctgagttgttcctt
ccccccgtggcgagctgccagccaggctgtacctgtgatcgaggctggcgggaaaataggcttcgtgtgctcaggtcatggg
aggtgcaggacagctcatgaaacgccaacaatcgcacaattcatgtcaagctaatcagctatttcctcttcacgagctgtaatt
gtcccaaaattctggtctaccgggggtgatccttcgtgtacgggcccttccctcaaccctaggtatgcgcgcatgcggtcgccgc
gcaactcgcgcgagggccgagggtttgggacgggccgtcccgaaatgcagttgcacccggatgcgtggcaccttttttgcgat
aatttatgcaatggactgctctgcaaaattctggctctgtcgccaaccctaggatcagcggcgtaggatttcgtaatcattcgtc
ctgatggggagctaccgactaccctaatatcagcccgactgcctgacgccagcgtccacttttgtgcacacattccattcgtgcc
caagacatttcattgtggtgcgaagcgtccccagttacgctcacctgtttcccgacctccttactgttctgtcgacagagcgggcc
cacaggccggtcgcagcdactae:tATGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctc
ggcgggctccgggccccggcgcccagcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgggcgcgccacccaggaggacgcccactccgccccc
cccccccgcaccttcatcaaccagctgcccgactggtccatgctgctggccgccatcaccaccgtgttcctggccgccgagaag
cagtggatgatgctggactggaagcccaagcgccccgacatgctggtggaccccttcggcctgggctccatcgtgcaggac
ggcctggtgttccgccagaacttctccatccgctcctacgagatcggcgccgaccgcaccgcctccatcgagaccgtgatgaa
ccacctgcaggagaccgccctgaaccacgtgaagatcgccggcctgtccaacgacggcttcggccgcacccccgagatgta
caagcgcgacctgatctgggtggtggccaagatgcaggtgatggtgaaccgctaccccacctggggcgacaccgtggagg
tgaacacctgggtggccaagtccggcaagaacggcatgcgccgcgactggctgatctccgactgcaacaccggcgagatc
ctgacccgcgcctcctccgtgtgggtgatgatgaaccagaagacccgccgcctgtccaagatccccgacgaggtgcgcaac
gagatcgagccccacttcgtggactccccccccgtgatcgaggacgacgaccgcaagctgcccaagctggacgagaagac
cgccgactccatccgcaagggcctgaccccccgctggaacgacctggacgtgaaccagcacgtgaacaacgtgaagtacat
cggctggatcctggagtccaccccccccgaggtgctggagacccaggagctgtgctccctgaccctggagtaccgccgcgag
tgcggccgcgagtccgtgctggagtccctgaccgccatggacccctccggcggcggctacggctcccagttccagcacctgct
gcgcctggaggacggcggcgagatcgtgaagggccgcaccgagtggcgccccaagaacggcgtgatcaacggcgtggt
gcccaccggcgagtcctcccccggcgactactccatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcga
ctacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGAatcgatagatctcttaaggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgct
ggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgat
                                             381

cttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgctt
gcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttg
ggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaa
.filggaaagcttaattaagagctcttgttttccagaaggagttgctccttgagcctttcattctcagcctcgataacctccaaagccgc
tctaattgtggagggggttcgaatttaaaagcttggaatgttggttcgtg cgtctggaa caagcccaga cttgttgctca ctgggaa
aaggaccatcagctccaaaaaacttgccgctcaaaccgcgtacctctgctttcgcgcaatctgccctgttgaaatcgccaccacatt
catattgtgacgcttgagcagtctgtaattgcctcagaatgtggaatcatctgccccctgtgcgagcccatgccaggcatgtcgcgg
gcgaggacacccgccactcgtacagcagaccattatgctacctcacaatagttcataacagtgaccatatttctcgaagctcccca
acgagcacctccatgctctgagtggccaccccccggccctggtgcttgcggagggcaggtcaaccggcatggggctaccgaaatc
cccgaccggatcccaccacccccgcgatgggaagaatctctccccgggatgtgggcccaccaccagcacaacctgctggcccagg
cgagcgtcaaaccataccacacaaatatccttggcatcggccctgaattccttctgccgctctgctacccggtgcttctgtccgaagc
aggggttgctagggatcgctccgagtccgcaaacccttgtcgcgtggcggggcttgttcgagcttgaagagc
SEQ ID NO: 259
coding region for C. hookeriana Cl6:0 thioesterase (codon-optimized)
A TGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgccc
agcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgggcgcgccacccaggaggacgcccactccgccccccccccccgcaccttcatcaaccagc
tgcccgactggtccatgctgctggccgccatcaccaccgtgttcctggccgccgagaagcagtggatgatgctggactggaa
gcccaagcgccccgacatgctggtggaccccttcggcctgggctccatcgtgcaggacggcctggtgttccgccagaacttct
ccatccgctcctacgagatcggcgccgaccgcaccgcctccatcgagaccgtgatgaaccacctgcaggagaccgccctgaa
ccacgtgaagatcgccggcctgtccaacgacggcttcggccgcacccccgagatgtacaagcgcgacctgatctgggtggt
ggccaagatgcaggtgatggtgaaccgctaccccacctggggcgacaccgtggaggtgaacacctgggtggccaagtccg
gcaagaacggcatgcgccgcgactggctgatctccgactgcaacaccggcgagatcctgacccgcgcctcctccgtgtgggt
gatgatgaaccagaagacccgccgcctgtccaagatccccgacgaggtgcgcaacgagatcgagccccacttcgtggactc
cccccccgtgatcgaggacgacgaccgcaagctgcccaagctggacgagaagaccgccgactccatccgcaagggcctga
ccccccgctggaacgacctggacgtgaaccagcacgtgaacaacgtgaagtacatcggctggatcctggagtccacccccc
ccgaggtgctggagacccaggagctgtgctccctgaccctggagtaccgccgcgagtgcggccgcgagtccgtgctggagt
ccctgaccgccatggacccctccggcggcggctacggctcccagttccagcacctgctgcgcctggaggacggcggcgagat
cgtgaagggccgcaccgagtggcgccccaagaacggcgtgatcaacggcgtggtgcccaccggcgagtcctcccccggcg
actactccatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagT
GA
SEQ ID NO: 260
E. guineensis C 16:0 thioesterase construct
gctcttcgccgccgccactcctgctcgagcgcgcccgcgcgtgcgccgccagcgccttggccttttcgccgcgctcgtgcgcgtcgct
gatgtccatcaccaggtccatgaggtctgccttgcgccggctgagccactgcttcgtccgggcggccaagaggagcatgagggag
gactcctggtccagggtcctgacgtggtcgcggctctgggagcgggccagcatcatctggctctgccgcaccgaggccgcctccaa
ctggtcctccagcagccgcagtcgccgccgaccctggcagaggaagacaggtgaggggggtatgaattgtacagaacaaccacg
agccttgtctaggcagaatccctaccagtcatggctttacctggatgacggcctgcgaacagctgtccagcgaccctcgctgccgcc
gcttctcccgcacgcttctttccagcaccgtgatggcgcgagccagcgccgcacgctggcgctgcgcttcgccgatctgaggacagt
cggggaactctgatcagtctaaacccccttgcgcgttagtgttgccatcctttgcagaccggtgagagccgacttgttgtgcgccac
cccccacaccacctcctcccagaccaattctgtcacctttttggcgaaggcatcggcctcggcctgcagagaggacagcagtgccc
agccgctgggggttggcggatgcacgctcaggtaccJctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagac
ggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctcca
gggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcac
                                             382

taccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaa
c c c ccA TGctgctgcaggccttcctgttcctgctggccggcttcgccgccaagatcagcgcctccatgacgaacgagac
gtccgaccgccccctggtgcacttcacccccaacaagggctggatgaacgaccccaacggcctgtggtacgacgagaaggac
gccaagtggcacctgtacttccagtacaacccgaacgacaccgtctgggggacgcccttgttctggggccacgccacgtccga
cgacctgaccaactgggaggaccagcccatcgccatcgccccgaagcgcaacgactccggcgccttctccggctccatggtgg
tggactacaacaacacctccggcttcttcaacgacaccatcgacccgcgccagcgctgcgtggccatctggacctacaacaccc
cggagtccgaggagcagtacatctcctacagcctggacggcggctacaccttcaccgagtaccagaagaaccccgtgctggc
cgccaactccacccagttccgcgacccgaaggtcttctggtacgagccctcccagaagtggatcatgaccgcggccaagtccc
aggactacaagatcgagatctactcctccgacgacctgaagtcctggaagctggagtccgcgttcgccaacgagggcttcctc
ggctaccagtacgagtgccccggcctgatcgaggtccccaccgagcaggaccccagcaagtcctactgggtgatgttcatctcc
atcaaccccggcgccccggccggcggctccttcaaccagtacttcgtcggcagcttcaacggcacccacttcgaggccttcgac
aaccagtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaaggactactacgccctgcagaccttcttcaacaccgacccgacctacgggagcgc
cctgggcatcgcgtgggcctccaactgggagtactccgccttcgtgcccaccaacccctggcgctcctccatgtccctcgtgcgca
agttctccctcaacaccgagtaccaggccaacccggagacggagctgatcaacctgaaggccgagccgatcctgaacatcag
caacgccggcccctggagccggttcgccaccaacaccacgttgacgaaggccaacagctacaacgtcgacctgtccaacagc
accggcaccctggagttcgagctggtgtacgccgtcaacaccacccagacgatctccaagtccgtgttcgcggacctctccctct
ggttcaagggcctggaggaccccgaggagtacctccgcatgggcttcgaggtgtccgcgtcctccttcttcctggaccgcggga
acagcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggagaacccctacttcaccaaccgcatgagcgtgaacaaccagcccttcaagagcgaga
acgacctgtcctactacaaggtgtacggcttgctggaccagaacatcctggagctgtacttcaacgacggcgacgtcgtgtcca
ccaacacctacttcatgaccaccgggaacgccctgggctccgtgaacatgacgacgggggtggacaacctgttctacatcgac
aagttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTGAcaattggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgat
ggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtac
gcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaacc
gcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgt
attctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaggatccc
gcgtctcgaacagagcgcgcagaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataaccacctga
cgaatgcgcttggttcttcgtccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaatgatcggt
ggagctgatggtcgaaacgttcacagcctagggatatc~ggccgacaggacgcgcgtcaaaggtgctggtcgtgtatgc
cctggccggcaggtcgttgctgctgctggttagtgattccgcaaccctgattttggcgtcttattttggcgtggcaaacgctggcg
cccgcgagccgggccggcggcgatgcggtgccccacggctgccggaatccaagggaggcaagagcgcccgggtcagttga
agggctttacgcgcaaggtacagccgctcctgcaaggctgcgtggtggaattggacgtgcaggtcctgctgaagttcctccac
cgcctcaccagcggacaaagcaccggtgtatcaggtccgtgtcatccactctaaagaactcgactacgacctactgatggccct
agattcttcatcaaaaacgcctgagacacttgcccaggattgaaactccctgaagggaccaccaggggccctgagttgttcctt
ccccccgtggcgagctgccagccaggctgtacctgtgatcgaggctggcgggaaaataggcttcgtgtgctcaggtcatggg
aggtgcaggacagctcatgaaacgccaacaatcgcacaattcatgtcaagctaatcagctatttcctcttcacgagctgtaatt
gtcccaaaattctggtctaccgggggtgatccttcgtgtacgggcccttccctcaaccctaggtatgcgcgcatgcggtcgccgc
gcaactcgcgcgagggccgagggtttgggacgggccgtcccgaaatgcagttgcacccggatgcgtggcaccttttttgcgat
aatttatgcaatggactgctctgcaaaattctggctctgtcgccaaccctaggatcagcggcgtaggatttcgtaatcattcgtc
ctgatggggagctaccgactaccctaatatcagcccgactgcctgacgccagcgtccacttttgtgcacacattccattcgtgcc
caagacatttcattgtggtgcgaagcgtccccagttacgctcacctgtttcccgacctccttactgttctgtcgacagagcgggcc
cacaggccggtcgcagcdactae:tA TGgtggcctccatcgccgcctccgccttcttccccaccccctccttctcccccaccgggc
gcgccgcctccgccaaggcctccaagaccatcggcgagggctccgagaacctggacgcccgcggcatcatcgccaagccca
cctcctcctccgccgccatgcagggcaaggtgatggcccaggccgtgtccaagatcaacggcgccaaggtgggcctgaagg
ccgagtcccagaaggccgaggaggacgccgccccctcctccgccccccgcaccttctacaaccagctgcccgactggtccgtg
ctgctggccgccgtgaccaccatcttcctggccgccgagaagcagtggaccctgctggactggaagccccgccgccccgaca
tgctgaccgacgccttctccctgggcaagatcgtgcaggacggcctggtgttcaagcagaacttctccatccgctcctacgag
                                            383

atcggcgccgaccgcaccgcctccatcgagaccctgatgaaccacctgcaggagaccgccctgaaccacgtgcgctccgccg
gcctgatgggcgacggcttcggcgccacccccgagatgtccaagcgcaacctgatctgggtggtgaccaaggtgcgcgtgc
tgatcgagcactacccctcctggggcgacgtggtggaggtggacacctgggtgggccccgccggcaagaacggcatgcgc
cgcgactggcacgtgcgcgaccaccgcaccggccagaccatcctgcgcgccacccgcgtgtgggtgatgatgaacaagaa
cacccgcaagctgtccaaggtgcccgaggaggtgcgcgccgagatcggcccctacttcgtggagcgcgccgccatcgtgga
cgaggactcccgcaagctgcccaagctggacgaggacaccaccgactacgtgaagaagggcctgaccccccgctggtccg
acctggacgtgaaccagcacgtgaacaacgtgaagtacatcggctggatcctggagtccgcccccatctccatcctggaga
accacgagctggcctccatgaccctggagtaccgccgcgagtgcggccgcgactccgtgctgcagtccctgaccgccgtggc
caacgactgcaccggcggcctgcccgaggcctccatcgagtgccagcacctgctgcagctggagtgcggcgccgagatcgt
gcgcggccgcacccagtggcgcccccgccgcgcctccggccccacctccgccggctccgccatggactacaaggaccacgac
ggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGAatcgatagatctcttaaggcagcagcagc
tcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccg
cttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccaccccc
agcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctg
ctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgca
cgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaaagcttaattaagagctcttgttttccagaaggagttgctccttgagcctttcatt
ctcagcctcgataacctccaaagccgctctaattgtggagggggttcgaatttaaaagcttggaatgttggttcgtgcgtctggaac
aagcccagacttgttgctcactgggaaaaggaccatcagctccaaaaaacttgccgctcaaaccgcgtacctctgctttcgcgcaa
tctgccctgttgaaatcgccaccacattcatattgtgacgcttgagcagtctgtaattgcctcagaatgtggaatcatctgccccctg
tgcgagcccatgccaggcatgtcgcgggcgaggacacccgccactcgtacagcagaccattatgctacctcacaatagttcataa
cagtgaccatatttctcgaagctccccaacgagcacctccatgctctgagtggccaccccccggccctggtgcttgcggagggcag
gtcaaccggcatggggctaccgaaatccccgaccggatcccaccacccccgcgatgggaagaatctctccccgggatgtgggccc
accaccagcacaacctgctggcccaggcgagcgtcaaaccataccacacaaatatccttggcatcggccctgaattccttctgccg
ctctgctacccggtgcttctgtccgaagcaggggttgctagggatcgctccgagtccgcaaacccttgtcgcgtggcggggcttgttc
gagcttgaagagc
SEQ ID NO: 261
coding region for E. guineensis Cl6:0 thioesterase (codon-optimized)
A TGgtggcctccatcgccgcctccgccttcttccccaccccctccttctcccccaccgggcgcgccgcctccgccaaggcctccaa
gaccatcggcgagggctccgagaacctggacgcccgcggcatcatcgccaagcccacctcctcctccgccgccatgcagggca
aggtgatggcccaggccgtgtccaagatcaacggcgccaaggtgggcctgaaggccgagtcccagaaggccgaggaggac
gccgccccctcctccgccccccgcaccttctacaaccagctgcccgactggtccgtgctgctggccgccgtgaccaccatcttcctg
gccgccgagaagcagtggaccctgctggactggaagccccgccgccccgacatgctgaccgacgccttctccctgggcaagat
cgtgcaggacggcctggtgttcaagcagaacttctccatccgctcctacgagatcggcgccgaccgcaccgcctccatcgagac
cctgatgaaccacctgcaggagaccgccctgaaccacgtgcgctccgccggcctgatgggcgacggcttcggcgccacccccg
agatgtccaagcgcaacctgatctgggtggtgaccaaggtgcgcgtgctgatcgagcactacccctcctggggcgacgtggtg
gaggtggacacctgggtgggccccgccggcaagaacggcatgcgccgcgactggcacgtgcgcgaccaccgcaccggcca
gaccatcctgcgcgccacccgcgtgtgggtgatgatgaacaagaacacccgcaagctgtccaaggtgcccgaggaggtgcg
cgccgagatcggcccctacttcgtggagcgcgccgccatcgtggacgaggactcccgcaagctgcccaagctggacgaggac
accaccgactacgtgaagaagggcctgaccccccgctggtccgacctggacgtgaaccagcacgtgaacaacgtgaagtac
atcggctggatcctggagtccgcccccatctccatcctggagaaccacgagctggcctccatgaccctggagtaccgccgcgag
tgcggccgcgactccgtgctgcagtccctgaccgccgtggccaacgactgcaccggcggcctgcccgaggcctccatcgagtgc
cagcacctgctgcagctggagtgcggcgccgagatcgtgcgcggccgcacccagtggcgcccccgccgcgcctccggccccac
ctccgccggctccgccatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacga
caagTGA
                                             384

SEQ ID NO: 262
C. tinctorius ACP-thioesterase at i'.112 fatty acid desaturase locus construct
gctcttcgggctggtctgaatccttcaggcgggtgttacccgagaaagaaagggtgccgatttcaaagcagacccatgtgccgggc
cctgtggcctgtgttggcgcctatgtagtcaccccccctcacccaattgtcgccagtttgcgcactccataaactcaaaacagcagct
tctgagctgcgctgttcaagaacacctctggggtttgctcacccgcgaggtcgacgcccagcatggctatcaagacgaacaggca
gcctgtggagaagcctccgttcacgatcgggacgctgcgcaaggccatccccgcgcactgtttcgagcgctcggcgcttcgtagca
gcatgtacctggcctttgacatcgcggtcatgtccctgctctacgtcgcgtcgacgtacatcgaccctgcaccggtgcctacgtgggt
caagtacggcatcatgtggccgctctactggttcttccaggtgtgtttgagggttttggttgcccgtattgaggtcctggtggcgcgc
atggaggagaaggcgcctgtcccgctgacccccccggctaccctcccggcaccttccagggcgccttcggcacgggtgtctgggtg
tgcgcgcacgagtgcggccaccaggccttttcctccagccaggccatcaacgacggcgtgggcctggtgttccacagcctgctgct
ggtgccctactactcctggaagcactcgcaccge:e:tacclctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgag
acggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctc
cagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatc
actaccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcal
aadtcta_g_aatatcaATGctgctgcaggccttcctgttcctgctggccggcttcgccgccaagatcagcgcctccatgacgaac
gagacgtccgaccgccccctggtgcacttcacccccaacaagggctggatgaacgaccccaacggcctgtggtacgacgaga
aggacgccaagtggcacctgtacttccagtacaacccgaacgacaccgtctgggggacgcccttgttctggggccacgccacg
tccgacgacctgaccaactgggaggaccagcccatcgccatcgccccgaagcgcaacgactccggcgccttctccggctccat
ggtggtggactacaacaacacctccggcttcttcaacgacaccatcgacccgcgccagcgctgcgtggccatctggacctaca
acaccccggagtccgaggagcagtacatctcctacagcctggacggcggctacaccttcaccgagtaccagaagaaccccgt
gctggccgccaactccacccagttccgcgacccgaaggtcttctggtacgagccctcccagaagtggatcatgaccgcggcca
agtcccaggactacaagatcgagatctactcctccgacgacctgaagtcctggaagctggagtccgcgttcgccaacgagggc
ttcctcggctaccagtacgagtgccccggcctgatcgaggtccccaccgagcaggaccccagcaagtcctactgggtgatgttc
atctccatcaaccccggcgccccggccggcggctccttcaaccagtacttcgtcggcagcttcaacggcacccacttcgaggcct
tcgacaaccagtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaaggactactacgccctgcagaccttcttcaacaccgacccgacctacggg
agcgccctgggcatcgcgtgggcctccaactgggagtactccgccttcgtgcccaccaacccctggcgctcctccatgtccctcgt
gcgcaagttctccctcaacaccgagtaccaggccaacccggagacggagctgatcaacctgaaggccgagccgatcctgaac
atcagcaacgccggcccctggagccggttcgccaccaacaccacgttgacgaaggccaacagctacaacgtcgacctgtcca
acagcaccggcaccctggagttcgagctggtgtacgccgtcaacaccacccagacgatctccaagtccgtgttcgcggacctct
ccctctggttcaagggcctggaggaccccgaggagtacctccgcatgggcttcgaggtgtccgcgtcctccttcttcctggaccg
cgggaacagcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggagaacccctacttcaccaaccgcatgagcgtgaacaaccagcccttcaagag
cgagaacgacctgtcctactacaaggtgtacggcttgctggaccagaacatcctggagctgtacttcaacgacggcgacgtcg
tgtccaccaacacctacttcatgaccaccgggaacgccctgggctccgtgaacatgacgacgggggtggacaacctgttctac
atcgacaagttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTGAcaattggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtc
gtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgt
gtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatc
ccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctc
cgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatgga
ggatcccgcgtctcgaacagagcgcgcagaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataac
cacctgacgaatgcgcttggttcttcgtccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaat
gatcggtggagctgatggtcgaaacgttcacagcctagggatatcgaattc
ctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagacggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatg
cttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccc
cgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcgagc
ttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaadactae:tA TGgccaccgcatccac
tttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgcccagcgaggcccctccccgt
                                                 385

gcgcgggcgcgccgccaccggcgagcagccctccggcgtggcctccctgcgcgaggccgacaaggagaagtccctgggca
accgcctgcgcctgggctccctgaccgaggacggcctgtcctacaaggagaagttcgtgatccgctgctacgaggtgggcat
caacaagaccgccaccatcgagaccatcgccaacctgctgcaggaggtgggcggcaaccacgcccagggcgtgggcttct
ccaccgacggcttcgccaccaccaccaccatgcgcaagctgcacctgatctgggtgaccgcccgcatgcacatcgagatctac
cgctaccccgcctggtccgacgtgatcgagatcgagacctgggtgcagggcgagggcaaggtgggcacccgccgcgactg
gatcctgaaggactacgccaacggcgaggtgatcggccgcgccacctccaagtgggtgatgatgaacgaggacacccgcc
gcctgcagaaggtgtccgacgacgtgcgcgaggagtacctggtgttctgcccccgcaccctgcgcctggccttccccgagga
gaacaacaactccatgaagaagatccccaagctggaggaccccgccgagtactcccgcctgggcctggtgccccgccgctc
cgacctggacatgaacaagcacgtgaacaacgtgacctacatcggctgggccctggagtccatcccccccgagatcatcga
cacccacgagctgcaggccatcaccctggactaccgccgcgagtgccagcgcgacgacatcgtggactccctgacctcccgc
gagcccctgggcaacgccgccggcgtgaagttcaaggagatcaacggctccgtgtcccccaagaaggacgagcaggacct
gtcccgcttcatgcacctgctgcgctccgccggctccggcctggagatcaaccgctgccgcaccgagtggcgcaagaagccc
gccaagcgcatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaag
TGAatcgatagatctcttaaggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgcc
acacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagtt
gctagctgcttgtgcta tttg cga ata cca cccccagca t cccctt cc ct cgtttca tat cgcttg catccca accgca a ctta t eta cg
ctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtact
gcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaaagcttaattaagagctccc
gccaccactccaacacggggtgcctggacaaggacgaggtgtttgtgccgccgcaccgcgcagtggcgcacgagggcctggagt
gggaggagtggctgcccatccgcatgggcaaggtgctggtcaccctgaccctgggctggccgctgtacctcatgttcaacgtcgcc
tcgcggccgtacccgcgcttcgccaaccactttgacccgtggtcgcccatcttcagcaagcgcgagcgcatcgaggtggtcatctcc
gacctggcgctggtggcggtgctcagcgggctcagcgtgctgggccgcaccatgggctgggcctggctggtcaagacctacgtggt
gccctacctgatcgtgaacatgtggctcgtgctcatcacgctgctccagcacacgcacccggcgctgccgcactacttcgagaagg
actgggactggctgcgcggcgccatggccaccgtggaccgctccatgggcccgcccttcatggacaacatcctgcaccacatctcc
gacacccacgtgctgcaccacctcttcagcaccatcccgcactaccacgccgaggaggcctccgccgccatcaggcccatcctggg
caagtactaccagtccgacagccgctgggtcggccgcgccctgtgggaggactggcgcgactgccgctacgtcgtcccggacgcg
cccgagga cga ctccgcgctctggttcca caagtgagtgagtgagaagagc
SEQ ID NO: 263
coding region for C. tinctorius ACP-thioesterase (codon-optimized)
A TGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgccca
gcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgggcgcgccgccaccggcgagcagccctccggcgtggcctccctgcgcgaggccgacaagg
agaagtccctgggcaaccgcctgcgcctgggctccctgaccgaggacggcctgtcctacaaggagaagttcgtgatccgctgc
tacgaggtgggcatcaacaagaccgccaccatcgagaccatcgccaacctgctgcaggaggtgggcggcaaccacgcccag
ggcgtgggcttctccaccgacggcttcgccaccaccaccaccatgcgcaagctgcacctgatctgggtgaccgcccgcatgcac
atcgagatdaccgctaccccgcctggtccgacgtgatcgagatcgagacctgggtgcagggcgagggcaaggtgggcaccc
gccgcgactggatcctgaaggactacgccaacggcgaggtgatcggccgcgccacctccaagtgggtgatgatgaacgagg
acacccgccgcctgcagaaggtgtccgacgacgtgcgcgaggagtacctggtgttctgcccccgcaccctgcgcctggccttcc
ccgaggagaacaacaactccatgaagaagatccccaagctggaggaccccgccgagtactcccgcctgggcctggtgccccg
ccgctccgacctggacatgaacaagcacgtgaacaacgtgacctacatcggctgggccctggagtccatcccccccgagatca
tcgacacccacgagctgcaggccatcaccctggactaccgccgcgagtgccagcgcgacgacatcgtggactccctgacctcc
cgcgagcccctgggcaacgccgccggcgtgaagttcaaggagatcaacggctccgtgtcccccaagaaggacgagcaggac
ctgtcccgcttcatgcacctgctgcgctccgccggctccggcctggagatcaaccgctgccgcaccgagtggcgcaagaagccc
gccaagcgcatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagT
GA
                                                  386

SEQ ID NO: 264
M.fragrans C14:0-C18:0 broad specificity thioesterase construct
gctcttcgccgccgccactcctgctcgagcgcgcccgcgcgtgcgccgccagcgccttggccttttcgccgcgctcgtgcgcgtcgct
gatgtccatcaccaggtccatgaggtctgccttgcgccggctgagccactgcttcgtccgggcggccaagaggagcatgagggag
gactcctggtccagggtcctgacgtggtcgcggctctgggagcgggccagcatcatctggctctgccgcaccgaggccgcctccaa
ctggtcctccagcagccgcagtcgccgccgaccctggcagaggaagacaggtgaggggggtatgaattgtacagaacaaccacg
agccttgtctaggcagaatccctaccagtcatggctttacctggatgacggcctgcgaacagctgtccagcgaccctcgctgccgcc
gcttctcccgcacgcttctttccagcaccgtgatggcgcgagccagcgccgcacgctggcgctgcgcttcgccgatctgaggacagt
cggggaactctgatcagtctaaacccccttgcgcgttagtgttgccatcctttgcagaccggtgagagccgacttgttgtgcgccac
cccccacaccacctcctcccagaccaattctgtcacctttttggcgaaggcatcggcctcggcctgcagagaggacagcagtgccc
agccgctgggggttggcggatgcacgctca~ctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagac
ggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctcca
gggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcac
taccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaa
dg-g-cgcgccA TGctgctgcaggccttcctgttcctgctggccggcttcgccgccaagatcagcgcctccatgacgaacgagac
gtccgaccgccccctggtgcacttcacccccaacaagggctggatgaacgaccccaacggcctgtggtacgacgagaaggac
gccaagtggcacctgtacttccagtacaacccgaacgacaccgtctgggggacgcccttgttctggggccacgccacgtccga
cgacctgaccaactgggaggaccagcccatcgccatcgccccgaagcgcaacgactccggcgccttctccggctccatggtgg
tggactacaacaacacctccggcttcttcaacgacaccatcgacccgcgccagcgctgcgtggccatctggacctacaacaccc
cggagtccgaggagcagtacatctcctacagcctggacggcggctacaccttcaccgagtaccagaagaaccccgtgctggc
cgccaactccacccagttccgcgacccgaaggtcttctggtacgagccctcccagaagtggatcatgaccgcggccaagtccc
aggactacaagatcgagatctactcctccgacgacctgaagtcctggaagctggagtccgcgttcgccaacgagggcttcctc
ggctaccagtacgagtgccccggcctgatcgaggtccccaccgagcaggaccccagcaagtcctactgggtgatgttcatctcc
atcaaccccggcgccccggccggcggctccttcaaccagtacttcgtcggcagcttcaacggcacccacttcgaggccttcgac
aaccagtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaaggactactacgccctgcagaccttcttcaacaccgacccgacctacgggagcgc
cctgggcatcgcgtgggcctccaactgggagtactccgccttcgtgcccaccaacccctggcgctcctccatgtccctcgtgcgca
agttctccctcaacaccgagtaccaggccaacccggagacggagctgatcaacctgaaggccgagccgatcctgaacatcag
caacgccggcccctggagccggttcgccaccaacaccacgttgacgaaggccaacagctacaacgtcgacctgtccaacagc
accggcaccctggagttcgagctggtgtacgccgtcaacaccacccagacgatctccaagtccgtgttcgcggacctctccctct
ggttcaagggcctggaggaccccgaggagtacctccgcatgggcttcgaggtgtccgcgtcctccttcttcctggaccgcggga
acagcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggagaacccctacttcaccaaccgcatgagcgtgaacaaccagcccttcaagagcgaga
acgacctgtcctactacaaggtgtacggcttgctggaccagaacatcctggagctgtacttcaacgacggcgacgtcgtgtcca
ccaacacctacttcatgaccaccgggaacgccctgggctccgtgaacatgacgacgggggtggacaacctgttctacatcgac
aagttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTGAcaattggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgat
ggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtac
gcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaacc
gcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgt
attctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaggatccc
gcgtctcgaacagagcgcgcagaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataaccacctga
cgaatgcgcttggttcttcgtccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaatgatcggt
ggagctgatggtcgaaacgttcacagcctagggatatcgaattdggccgacaggacgcgcgtcaaaggtgctggtcgtgtatgc
cctggccggcaggtcgttgctgctgctggttagtgattccgcaaccctgattttggcgtcttattttggcgtggcaaacgctggcg
cccgcgagccgggccggcggcgatgcggtgccccacggctgccggaatccaagggaggcaagagcgcccgggtcagttga
agggctttacgcgcaaggtacagccgctcctgcaaggctgcgtggtggaattggacgtgcaggtcctgctgaagttcctccac
cgcctcaccagcggacaaagcaccggtgtatcaggtccgtgtcatccactctaaagaactcgactacgacctactgatggccct
agattcttcatcaaaaacgcctgagacacttgcccaggattgaaactccctgaagggaccaccaggggccctgagttgttcctt
                                             387

ccccccgtggcgagctgccagccaggctgtacctgtgatcgaggctggcgggaaaataggcttcgtgtgctcaggtcatggg
aggtgcaggacagctcatgaaacgccaacaatcgcacaattcatgtcaagctaatcagctatttcctcttcacgagctgtaatt
gtcccaaaattctggtctaccgggggtgatccttcgtgtacgggcccttccctcaaccctaggtatgcgcgcatgcggtcgccgc
gcaactcgcgcgagggccgagggtttgggacgggccgtcccgaaatgcagttgcacccggatgcgtggcaccttttttgcgat
aatttatgcaatggactgctctgcaaaattctggctctgtcgccaaccctaggatcagcggcgtaggatttcgtaatcattcgtc
ctgatggggagctaccgactaccctaatatcagcccgactgcctgacgccagcgtccacttttgtgcacacattccattcgtgcc
caagacatttcattgtggtgcgaagcgtccccagttacgctcacctgtttcccgacctccttactgttctgtcgacagagcgggcc
cacaggccggtcgcagcdacta2tATGgctatcaagacgaacaggcagcctgtggagaagcctccgttcacgatcgggac
gctgcgcaaggccatccccgcgcactgtttcgagcgctcggcgcttcgtgggcgcgccgccaacgcccacaccgtgcccaaga
tcaacggcaacaaggccggcctgctgacccccatggagagcaccaaggacgaggacatcgtcgcggcccccaccgtggcg
cccaagcgcaccttcatcaaccagctgcccgactggtcgatgctgctggccgcgatcaccaccatcttcctggcggccgagaa
gcagtggaccaacctggactggaagccccgccgccccgacatgctggtcgacttcgaccccttctccctgggccgcttcgtgc
aggacggcctgatcttccgccagaacttcagcatccgctcgtacgagatcggcgcggaccgcaccgcctccatcgagaccct
gatgaaccacctgcaggagaccgcgctgaaccacgtccgctgcatcggcctgctggacgacggcttcggcagcacccccga
gatgacccgccgcgacctgatctgggtggtcacccgcatgcaggtcctggtggaccgctacccctcgtggggcgacgtgatc
gaggtcgactcctgggtgacccccagcggcaagaacggcatgaagcgcgagtggttcctgcgcgactgcaagaccggcg
agatcctgacccgcgccacctcggtctgggtgatgatgaacaagcgcacccgccgcctgtccaagatccccgaggaggtcc
gcgtggagatcgagccctacttcgtcgagcacggcgtgctggacgaggactcgcgcaagctgcccaagctgaacgacaac
accgccaactacatccgccgcggcctggcgccccgctggtccgacctggacgtcaaccagcacgtgaacaacgtcaagtac
atcggctggatcctggagagcgtgcccagcagcctgctggagtcgcacgagctgtacggcatgaccctggagtaccgcaag
gagtgcggcaaggacggcctgctgcagtccctgaccgccgtcgccagcgactacggcggcggctcgctggaggccggcgt
ggagtgcgaccacctgctgcgcctggaggacggctccgagatcatgcgcggcaagaccgagtggcgccccaagcgcgccg
cgaacaccacctacttcggcagcgtcgacgacatcccccccgccaacaacgcgTGActcgaggcagcagcagctcggatagt
atcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatca
aacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccc
cttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgc
ccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaag
tagtggga tggga a ca caa a tgga a ag cttgagctcttgttttccagaaggagttgctccttgagcctttcattctcagcctcgataa
cctccaaagccgctctaattgtggagggggttcgaatttaaaagcttggaatgttggttcgtgcgtctggaacaagcccagacttgt
tgctcactgggaaaaggaccatcagctccaaaaaacttgccgctcaaaccgcgtacctctgctttcgcgcaatctgccctgttgaa
atcgccaccacattcatattgtgacgcttgagcagtctgtaattgcctcagaatgtggaatcatctgccccctgtgcgagcccatgc
caggcatgtcgcgggcgaggacacccgccactcgtacagcagaccattatgctacctcacaatagttcataacagtgaccatattt
ctcgaagctccccaacgagcacctccatgctctgagtggccaccccccggccctggtgcttgcggagggcaggtcaaccggcatgg
ggctaccgaaatccccgaccggatcccaccacccccgcgatgggaagaatctctccccgggatgtgggcccaccaccagcacaac
ctgctggcccaggcgagcgtcaaaccataccacacaaatatccttggcatcggccctgaattccttctgccgctctgctacccggtg
cttctgtccgaagcaggggttgctagggatcgctccgagtccgcaaacccttgtcgcgtggcggggcttgttcgagcttgaagagc
SEQ ID NO: 265
coding region for M. fragrans C14:0-C18:0 broad specificity thioesterase (codon-optimized)
A TGgctatcaagacgaacaggcagcctgtggagaagcctccgttcacgatcgggacgctgcgcaaggccatccccgcgca
ctgtttcgagcgctcggcgcttcgtgggcgcgccgccaacgcccacaccgtgcccaagatcaacggcaacaaggccggcctg
ctgacccccatggagagcaccaaggacgaggacatcgtcgcggcccccaccgtggcgcccaagcgcaccttcatcaaccag
ctgcccgactggtcgatgctgctggccgcgatcaccaccatcttcctggcggccgagaagcagtggaccaacctggactgga
agccccgccgccccgacatgctggtcgacttcgaccccttctccctgggccgcttcgtgcaggacggcctgatcttccgccaga
acttcagcatccgctcgtacgagatcggcgcggaccgcaccgcctccatcgagaccctgatgaaccacctgcaggagaccgc
gctgaaccacgtccgctgcatcggcctgctggacgacggcttcggcagcacccccgagatgacccgccgcgacctgatctgg
                                                    388

gtggtcacccgcatgcaggtcctggtggaccgctacccctcgtggggcgacgtgatcgaggtcgactcctgggtgaccccca
gcggcaagaacggcatgaagcgcgagtggttcctgcgcgactgcaagaccggcgagatcctgacccgcgccacctcggtc
tgggtgatgatgaacaagcgcacccgccgcctgtccaagatccccgaggaggtccgcgtggagatcgagccctacttcgtc
gagcacggcgtgctggacgaggactcgcgcaagctgcccaagctgaacgacaacaccgccaactacatccgccgcggcct
ggcgccccgctggtccgacctggacgtcaaccagcacgtgaacaacgtcaagtacatcggctggatcctggagagcgtgcc
cagcagcctgctggagtcgcacgagctgtacggcatgaccctggagtaccgcaaggagtgcggcaaggacggcctgctgc
agtccctgaccgccgtcgccagcgactacggcggcggctcgctggaggccggcgtggagtgcgaccacctgctgcgcctgg
aggacggctccgagatcatgcgcggcaagaccgagtggcgccccaagcgcgccgcgaacaccacctacttcggcagcgtc
gacgacatcccccccgccaacaacgcgTGA
SEQ ID NO: 266
coding region for M. fragrans C: 14:0 specific thioesterase
actagtATGgctatcaagacgaacaggcagcctgtggagaagcctccgttcacgatcgggacgctgcgcaaggccatcccc
gcgcactgtttcgagcgctcggcgcttcgtgqqcqcqccgccaacgcccacaccgtgcccaagatcaacggcaacaaggccg
gcctgctgacccccatggagagcaccaaggacgaggacatcgtcgcggcccccaccgtggcgcccaagcgcaccttcatcaa
ccagctgcccgactggtcgatgctgctggccgcgatcaccaccatcttcctggcggccgagaagcagtggaccaacctggact
ggaagccccgccgccccgacatgctggtcgacttcgaccccttctccctgggccgcttcgtgcaggacggcctgatcttccgcca
gaacttcagcatccgctcgtacgagatcggcgcggaccgcaccgcctccatcgagaccctgatgaaccacctgcaggagacc
gcgctgaaccacgtccgctgcatcggcctgctggacgacggcttcggcagcacccccgagatgacccgccgcgacctgatctg
ggtggtcacccgcatgcaggtcctggtggaccgctacccctcgtggggcgacgtgatcgaggtcgactcctgggtgaccccca
gcggcaagaacggcatgaagcgcgagtggttcctgcgcgactgcaagaccggcgagatcctgacccgcgccacctcggtctg
ggtgatgatgaacaagcgcacccgccgcctgtccaagatccccgaggaggtccgcgtggagatcgagccctacttcgtcgag
cacggcgtgctggacgaggactcgcgcaagctgcccaagctgaacgacaacaccgccaactacatccgccgcggcctggcgc
cccgctggtccgacctggacgtcaaccagcacgtgaacaacgtcaagtacatcggctggatcctggagagcgtgcccagcag
cctgctggagtcgcacgagctgtacggcatgaccctggagtaccgcaaggagtgcggcaaggacggcctgctgcagtccctg
accgccgtcgccagcgactacggcggcggctcgctggaggccggcgtggagtgcgaccacctgctgcgcctggaggacggct
ccgagatcatgcgcggcaagaccgagtggcgccccaagcgcgccgcgaacaccacctacttcggcagcgtcgacgacatccc
ccccgccaacaacgcgTGActcgag
SEQ ID NO: 267
M.fragrans C14:0 specfic thioesterase with fi12 FAD transit peptide
MAIKTNRQPVEKPPFTIGTLRKAIPAHCFERSALRGRAANAHTVPKINGNKAGLLTPMES
TKDEDIVAAPTVAPKRTFINQLPDWSMLLAAITIIFLAAEKQWTNLDWKPRRPDMLVDFD
PFSLGRFVQDGLIFRQNFSIRSYEIGADRTASIETLMNHLQETALNHVRCIGLLDDGFGS
TPEMTRRDLIWVVTRMQVLVDRYPSWGDVIEVDSWVTPSGKNGMKREWFLRDCKTGEILT
RATSVWVMMNKRTRRLSKIPEEVRVEIEPYFVEHGVLDEDSRKLPKLNDNTANYIRRGLA
PRWSDLDVNQHVNNVKYIGWILESVPSSLLESHELYGMTLEYRKECGKDGLLQSLTAVAS
DYGGGSLEAGVECDHLLRLEDGSEIMRGKTEWRPKRAANTIYFGSVDDIPPANNA
SEQ ID NO: 268
Ricinus communis ACP-thioesterase construct
gctcttcgccgccgccactcctgctcgagcgcgcccgcgcgtgcgccgccagcgccttggccttttcgccgcgctcgtgcgcgtcgct
gatgtccatcaccaggtccatgaggtctgccttgcgccggctgagccactgcttcgtccgggcggccaagaggagcatgagggag
gactcctggtccagggtcctgacgtggtcgcggctctgggagcgggccagcatcatctggctctgccgcaccgaggccgcctccaa
ctggtcctccagcagccgcagtcgccgccgaccctggcagaggaagacaggtgaggggggtatgaattgtacagaacaaccacg
                                              389

agccttgtctaggcagaatccctaccagtcatggctttacctggatgacggcctgcgaacagctgtccagcgaccctcgctgccgcc
gcttctcccgcacgcttctttccagcaccgtgatggcgcgagccagcgccgcacgctggcgctgcgcttcgccgatctgaggacagt
cggggaactctgatcagtctaaacccccttgcgcgttagtgttgccatcctttgcagaccggtgagagccgacttgttgtgcgccac
cccccacaccacctcctcccagaccaattctgtcacctttttggcgaaggcatcggcctcggcctgcagagaggacagcagtgccc
agccgctgggggttggcggatgcacgctca~tacclctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagac
ggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctcca
gggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcac
taccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaa
c~atatcaA TGctgctgcaggccttcctgttcctgctggccggcttcgccgccaagatcagcgcctccatgacgaacga
gacgtccgaccgccccctggtgcacttcacccccaacaagggctggatgaacgaccccaacggcctgtggtacgacgagaag
gacgccaagtggcacctgtacttccagtacaacccgaacgacaccgtctgggggacgcccttgttctggggccacgccacgtc
cgacgacctgaccaactgggaggaccagcccatcgccatcgccccgaagcgcaacgactccggcgccttctccggctccatgg
tggtggactacaacaacacctccggcttcttcaacgacaccatcgacccgcgccagcgctgcgtggccatctggacctacaaca
ccccggagtccgaggagcagtacatctcctacagcctggacggcggctacaccttcaccgagtaccagaagaaccccgtgctg
gccgccaactccacccagttccgcgacccgaaggtcttctggtacgagccctcccagaagtggatcatgaccgcggccaagtc
ccaggactacaagatcgagatctactcctccgacgacctgaagtcctggaagctggagtccgcgttcgccaacgagggcttcc
tcggctaccagtacgagtgccccggcctgatcgaggtccccaccgagcaggaccccagcaagtcctactgggtgatgttcatct
ccatcaaccccggcgccccggccggcggctccttcaaccagtacttcgtcggcagcttcaacggcacccacttcgaggccttcga
caaccagtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaaggactactacgccctgcagaccttcttcaacaccgacccgacctacgggagcg
ccctgggcatcgcgtgggcctccaactgggagtactccgccttcgtgcccaccaacccctggcgctcctccatgtccctcgtgcgc
aagttctccctcaacaccgagtaccaggccaacccggagacggagctgatcaacctgaaggccgagccgatcctgaacatca
gcaacgccggcccctggagccggttcgccaccaacaccacgttgacgaaggccaacagctacaacgtcgacctgtccaacag
caccggcaccctggagttcgagctggtgtacgccgtcaacaccacccagacgatctccaagtccgtgttcgcggacctctccctc
tggttcaagggcctggaggaccccgaggagtacctccgcatgggcttcgaggtgtccgcgtcctccttcttcctggaccgcggg
aacagcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggagaacccctacttcaccaaccgcatgagcgtgaacaaccagcccttcaagagcgag
aacgacctgtcctactacaaggtgtacggcttgctggaccagaacatcctggagctgtacttcaacgacggcgacgtcgtgtcc
accaacacctacttcatgaccaccgggaacgccctgggctccgtgaacatgacgacgggggtggacaacctgttctacatcga
caagttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTGAcaattggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtga
tggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtac
gcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaacc
gcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgt
attctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaggatccc
gcgtctcgaacagagcgcgcagaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataaccacctga
cgaatgcgcttggttcttcgtccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaatgatcggt
ggagctgatggtcgaaacgttcacagcctagggatatc~ctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcggg
ctgcgagacggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctcc
gatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattc
aaacacctagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgttt
cagtcacaacccgcaaadactae:tA TGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctc
ggcgggctccgggccccggcgcccagcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgggcgcgcccgctcctacgaggtgggcatcaacaa
gaccgccaccgtggagaccatcgccaacctgctgcaggaggtgggctgcaaccacgcccagtccgtgggcttctccaccgac
ggcttcgccaccaccacctccatgcgcaagatgcacctgatctgggtgaccgcccgcatgcacatcgagatctacaagtaccc
cgcctggtccgacgtggtggaggtggagacctggtgccagtccgagggccgcatcggcacccgccgcgactggatcctgac
cgactacgccaccggccagatcatcggccgcgccacctccaagtgggtgatgatgaaccaggacacccgccgcctgcagaa
ggtgaccgacgacgtgcgcgaggagtacctggtgttctgcccccgcgagctgcgcctggccttccccgaggagaacaaccg
ctcctccaagaagatctccaagctggaggaccccgcccagtactccaagctgggcctggtgccccgccgcgccgacctggac
                                            390

atgaaccagcacgtgaacaacgtgacctacatcggctgggtgctggagtccatcccccaggagatcatcgacacccacgag
ctgcagaccatcaccctggactaccgccgcgagtgccagcacgacgacatcgtggactccctgacctccgtggagccctccg
agaacctggaggccgtgtccgagctgcgcggcaccaacggctccgccaccaccaccgccggcgacgaggactgccgcaac
ttcctgcacctgctgcgcctgtccggcgacggcctggagatcaaccgcggccgcaccgagtggcgcaagaagtccgcccgca
tggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGAatcgata
gatctcttaaggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgcc
ttga cctgtga a tat ccctgccg cttttat ca a a cage ct cagtgtgtttga tcttgtgtgta cgcgcttttgcg agttg eta gctgcttg
tgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatc
cctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaa
ccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaaagcttaattaagagctcttgttttccagaagg
agttgctccttgagcctttcattctcagcctcgataacctccaaagccgctctaattgtggagggggttcgaatttaaaagcttgga
atgttggttcgtgcgtctggaacaagcccagacttgttgctcactgggaaaaggaccatcagctccaaaaaacttgccgctcaaac
cgcgtacctctgctttcgcgcaatctgccctgttgaaatcgccaccacattcatattgtgacgcttgagcagtctgtaattgcctcag
aatgtggaatcatctgccccctgtgcgagcccatgccaggcatgtcgcgggcgaggacacccgccactcgtacagcagaccattat
gctacctcacaatagttcataacagtgaccatatttctcgaagctccccaacgagcacctccatgctctgagtggccaccccccggc
cctggtgcttgcggagggcaggtcaaccggcatggggctaccgaaatccccgaccggatcccaccacccccgcgatgggaagaa
tctctccccgggatgtgggcccaccaccagcacaacctgctggcccaggcgagcgtcaaaccataccacacaaatatccttggcat
cggccctgaattccttctgccgctctgctacccggtgcttctgtccgaagcaggggttgctagggatcgctccgagtccgcaaaccct
tgtcgcgtggcggggcttgttcgagcttgaagagc
SEQ ID NO: 269
coding region for Ricinus communis ACP-thioesterase (codon-optimized)
A TGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgccca
gcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgggcgcgcccgctcctacgaggtgggcatcaacaagaccgccaccgtggagaccatcgcca
acctgctgcaggaggtgggctgcaaccacgcccagtccgtgggcttctccaccgacggcttcgccaccaccacctccatgcgca
agatgcacctgatctgggtgaccgcccgcatgcacatcgagatctacaagtaccccgcctggtccgacgtggtggaggtgga
gacctggtgccagtccgagggccgcatcggcacccgccgcgactggatcctgaccgactacgccaccggccagatcatcggcc
gcgccacctccaagtgggtgatgatgaaccaggacacccgccgcctgcagaaggtgaccgacgacgtgcgcgaggagtacc
tggtgttctgcccccgcgagctgcgcctggccttccccgaggagaacaaccgctcctccaagaagatctccaagctggaggac
cccgcccagtactccaagctgggcctggtgccccgccgcgccgacctggacatgaaccagcacgtgaacaacgtgacctacat
cggctgggtgctggagtccatcccccaggagatcatcgacacccacgagctgcagaccatcaccctggactaccgccgcgagt
gccagcacgacgacatcgtggactccctgacctccgtggagccctccgagaacctggaggccgtgtccgagctgcgcggcacc
aacggctccgccaccaccaccgccggcgacgaggactgccgcaacttcctgcacctgctgcgcctgtccggcgacggcctgga
gatcaaccgcggccgcaccgagtggcgcaagaagtccgcccgcatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggacc
acgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGA
SEQ ID NO: 270
C. camphora C14:0 thioesterase construct
gctcttcgccgccgccactcctgctcgagcgcgcccgcgcgtgcgccgccagcgccttggccttttcgccgcgctcgtgcgcgtcgct
gatgtccatcaccaggtccatgaggtctgccttgcgccggctgagccactgcttcgtccgggcggccaagaggagcatgagggag
gactcctggtccagggtcctgacgtggtcgcggctctgggagcgggccagcatcatctggctctgccgcaccgaggccgcctccaa
ctggtcctccagcagccgcagtcgccgccgaccctggcagaggaagacaggtgaggggggtatgaattgtacagaacaaccacg
agccttgtctaggcagaatccctaccagtcatggctttacctggatgacggcctgcgaacagctgtccagcgaccctcgctgccgcc
gcttctcccgcacgcttctttccagcaccgtgatggcgcgagccagcgccgcacgctggcgctgcgcttcgccgatctgaggacagt
cggggaactctgatcagtctaaacccccttgcgcgttagtgttgccatcctttgcagaccggtgagagccgacttgttgtgcgccac
cccccacaccacctcctcccagaccaattctgtcacctttttggcgaaggcatcggcctcggcctgcagagaggacagcagtgccc
                                                       391

agccgctgggggttggcggatgcacgctcaggtacclctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagac
ggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctcca
gggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcac
taccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaa
c~atatcalA TGatcgagcaggacggcctccacgccggctcccccgccgcctgggtggagcgcctgttcggctacgact
gggcccagcagaccatcggctgctccgacgccgccgtgttccgcctgtccgcccagggccgccccgtgctgttcgtgaagaccg
acctgtccggcgccctgaacgagctgcaggacgaggccgcccgcctgtcctggctggccaccaccggcgtgccctgcgccgcc
gtgctggacgtggtgaccgaggccggccgcgactggctgctgctgggcgaggtgcccggccaggacctgctgtcctcccacct
ggcccccgccgagaaggtgtccatcatggccgacgccatgcgccgcctgcacaccctggaccccgccacctgccccttcgacca
ccaggccaagcaccgcatcgagcgcgcccgcacccgcatggaggccggcctggtggaccaggacgacctggacgaggagc
accagggcctggcccccgccgagctgttcgcccgcctgaaggcccgcatgcccgacggcgaggacctggtggtgacccacgg
cgacgcctgcctgcccaacatcatggtggagaacggccgcttctccggcttcatcgactgcggccgcctgggcgtggccgaccg
ctaccaggacatcgccctggccacccgcgacatcgccgaggagctgggcggcgagtgggccgaccgcttcctggtgctgtacg
gcatcgccgcccccgactcccagcgcatcgccttctaccgcctgctggacgagttcttcTGAcaattggcagcagcagctcggat
agtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttat
caaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatc
cccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcact
gcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacggga
agtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaggatcccgcgtctcgaacagagcgcgcagaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgca
cctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataaccacctgacgaatgcgcttggttcttcgtccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgc
cacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaatgatcggtggagctgatggtcgaaacgttcacagcctagggatatcgaattdctttcttgc
gctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagacggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgacccccc
gaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagaca
ttatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctal
agggggcgcct cttcctctt cgtttcagt ca ca ac ccgca aa da cta_gtA TGgccaccgcatccactttctcg gcgttcaatgccc
gctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgcccagcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgqqcqcqcccccgac
tggtccatgctgttcgccgtgatcaccaccatcttctccgccgccgagaagcagtggaccaacctggagtggaagcccaagccc
aaccccccccagctgctggacgaccacttcggcccccacggcctggtgttccgccgcaccttcgccatccgcagctacgaggtg
ggccccgaccgctccaccagcatcgtggccgtgatgaaccacctgcaggaggccgccctgaaccacgccaagtccgtgggca
tcctgggcgacggcttcggcaccaccctggagatgtccaagcgcgacctgatctgggtggtgaagcgcacccacgtggccgtg
gagcgctaccccgcctggggcgacaccgtggaggtggagtgctgggtgggcgcctccggcaacaacggccgccgccacgac
ttcctggtgcgcgactgcaagaccggcgagatcctgacccgctgcacctccctgagcgtgatgatgaacacccgcacccgccg
cctgagcaagatccccgaggaggtgcgcggcgagatcggccccgccttcatcgacaacgtggccgtgaaggacgaggagat
caagaagccccagaagctgaacgactccaccgccgactacatccagggcggcctgaccccccgctggaacgacctggacatc
aaccagcacgtgaacaacatcaagtacgtggactggatcctggagaccgtgcccgacagcatcttcgagagccaccacatct
cctccttcaccatcgagtaccgccgcgagtgcaccatggacagcgtgctgcagtccctgaccaccgtgagcggcggctcctccg
aggccggcctggtgtgcgagcacctgctgcagctggagggcggcagcgaggtgctgcgcgccaagaccgagtggcgcccca
agctgaccgactccttccgcggcatcagcgtgatccccgccgagtccagcgtgatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactac
aaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGActcgaggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactct
ggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtg
tgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcat
atcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagcct
tggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatggga
acacaaatggaaagcttgagctccttgttttccagaaggagttgctccttgagcctttcattctcagcctcgataacctccaaagccg
ctctaattgtggagggggttcgaatttaaaagcttggaatgttggttcgtgcgtctggaacaagcccagacttgttgctcactggga
aaaggaccatcagctccaaaaaacttgccgctcaaaccgcgtacctctgctttcgcgcaatctgccctgttgaaatcgccaccaca
                                                   392

ttcatattgtgacgcttgagcagtctgtaattgcctcagaatgtggaatcatctgccccctgtgcgagcccatgccaggcatgtcgc
gggcgaggacacccgccactcgtacagcagaccattatgctacctcacaatagttcataacagtgaccatatttctcgaagctccc
caacgagcacctccatgctctgagtggccaccccccggccctggtgcttgcggagggcaggtcaaccggcatggggctaccgaaa
tccccgaccggatcccaccacccccgcgatgggaagaatctctccccgggatgtgggcccaccaccagcacaacctgctggccca
ggcgagcgtcaaaccataccacacaaatatccttggcatcggccctgaattccttctgccgctctgctacccggtgcttctgtccga
agcaggggttgctagggatcgctccgagtccgcaaacccttgtcgcgtggcggggcttgttcgagcttgaagagc
SEQ ID NO: 271
coding region for C. camphora C14:0 thioesterase (codon-optimized)
ATGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgccca
gcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgaqcacacccccgactggtccatgctgttcgccgtgatcaccaccatcttctccgccgccgaga
agcagtggaccaacctggagtggaagcccaagcccaaccccccccagctgctggacgaccacttcggcccccacggcctggt
gttccgccgcaccttcgccatccgcagctacgaggtgggccccgaccgctccaccagcatcgtggccgtgatgaaccacctgca
ggaggccgccctgaaccacgccaagtccgtgggcatcctgggcgacggcttcggcaccaccctggagatgtccaagcgcgac
ctgatctgggtggtgaagcgcacccacgtggccgtggagcgctaccccgcctggggcgacaccgtggaggtggagtgctggg
tgggcgcctccggcaacaacggccgccgccacgacttcctggtgcgcgactgcaagaccggcgagatcctgacccgctgcacc
tccctgagcgtgatgatgaacacccgcacccgccgcctgagcaagatccccgaggaggtgcgcggcgagatcggccccgcct
tcatcgacaacgtggccgtgaaggacgaggagatcaagaagccccagaagctgaacgactccaccgccgactacatccagg
gcggcctgaccccccgctggaacgacctggacatcaaccagcacgtgaacaacatcaagtacgtggactggatcctggagac
cgtgcccgacagcatcttcgagagccaccacatctcctccttcaccatcgagtaccgccgcgagtgcaccatggacagcgtgct
gcagtccctgaccaccgtgagcggcggctcctccgaggccggcctggtgtgcgagcacctgctgcagctggagggcggcagc
gaggtgctgcgcgccaagaccgagtggcgccccaagctgaccgactccttccgcggcatcagcgtgatccccgccgagtccag
cgtgatggactacaaggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGA
SEQ ID NO: 272
C. camphora C14:0 specific thioesterase construct
gaattcgccctcccgtgatcacacaggtgccttgcgagcgtgatcacactattttgggggtcctacagtactgaaatggtgagaagtc
gtactgaaatcaaggatgaacaatgaaaatggtgctgtggtggcttctcaaaggtcaagaatcagtcgctcgcgtcaggaaatcgc
ggcgtcaaccagcgtgggcgcggtcagtggccccgcactggtcaccatagcctctcctgccacagtagcgatcccctgggcgttcac
tctcagcagcggctgtactgcctcccagattttcttcttctggacctgcgggcgtgagaggatgagcagggtgggccaagggctcaat
cctgaacggccctcattcggtttccaatcccacaacacatacccacagcaggtcagaccacgcattccaccatgcgcaccaataacg
tgtccttacctgattgggtgtggcaggctccgtggacaggagtgcctcgtcccccgcccagacccgctcccccgtcacggcggcgtcc
gggacccgcagcggctccaccgcggtgtgatccgcgttggcggcgcagagcagcatcccagccgatttgaccccgcgcatgctccg
aggcttgaggttggccagcaccaccacccgccggccgacaaggtcctccagggtcacgtgccggaccaggccactcacgatggtgc
gagggcccccctcctcgccgaggtcgatctgctcgacgtacagactgcgacatgcgtggcgagtggtcatcagaaggaagcaggtg
tgcagaaggggcacgtggttggtattgagagtagccaaagctttgtgccaatcagaaagtcaacgcagctgcctgcctggctcgcgt
aclaattcctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagacggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatg
atgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccc
cgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagcatattcaaacacctagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtg
atcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcccttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaad1111c2c2ccATGctgctgcaggccttcctgtt
cctgctggccggcttcgccgccaagatcagcgcctccatgacgaacgagacgtccgaccgccccctggtgcacttcacccccaa
caagggctggatgaacgaccccaacggcctgtggtacgacgagaaggacgccaagtggcacctgtacttccagtacaaccc
gaacgacaccgtctgggggacgcccttgttctggggccacgccacgtccgacgacctgaccaactgggaggaccagcccatc
gccatcgccccgaagcgcaacgactccggcgccttctccggctccatggtggtggactacaacaacacctccggcttcttcaac
gacaccatcgacccgcgccagcgctgcgtggccatctggacctacaacaccccggagtccgaggagcagtacatctcctacag
                                             393

cctggacggcggctacaccttcaccgagtaccagaagaaccccgtgctggccgccaactccacccagttccgcgacccgaagg
tcttctggtacgagccctcccagaagtggatcatgaccgcggccaagtcccaggactacaagatcgagatctactcctccgacg
acctgaagtcctggaagctggagtccgcgttcgccaacgagggcttcctcggctaccagtacgagtgccccggcctgatcgag
gtccccaccgagcaggaccccagcaagtcctactgggtgatgttcatctccatcaaccccggcgccccggccggcggctccttc
aaccagtacttcgtcggcagcttcaacggcacccacttcgaggccttcgacaaccagtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaagga
ctactacgccctgcagaccttcttcaacaccgacccgacctacgggagcgccctgggcatcgcgtgggcctccaactgggagta
ctccgccttcgtgcccaccaacccctggcgctcctccatgtccctcgtgcgcaagttctccctcaacaccgagtaccaggccaacc
cggagacggagctgatcaacctgaaggccgagccgatcctgaacatcagcaacgccggcccctggagccggttcgccacca
acaccacgttgacgaaggccaacagctacaacgtcgacctgtccaacagcaccggcaccctggagttcgagctggtgtacgc
cgtcaacaccacccagacgatctccaagtccgtgttcgcggacctctccctctggttcaagggcctggaggaccccgaggagta
cctccgcatgggcttcgaggtgtccgcgtcctccttcttcctggaccgcgggaacagcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggagaaccc
ctacttcaccaaccgcatgagcgtgaacaaccagcccttcaagagcgagaacgacctgtcctactacaaggtgtacggcttgc
tggaccagaacatcctggagctgtacttcaacgacggcgacgtcgtgtccaccaacacctacttcatgaccaccgggaacgcc
ctgggctccgtgaacatgacgacgggggtggacaacctgttctacatcgacaagttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTGAttaa
ttaactcgaggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgc
cttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgct
tgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatcccctccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgct
atccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgt
aaa ccagca ctgcaatgctgatg
cacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaaa!!cttlgagctcctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgg
gctgcgagacggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccga
tgccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaaca
cctagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcaca
acccgcaaac~cta_g_tA TGacgttcggggtcgccctcccggccatgggccgcggtgtctcccttccccggcccagggtcgcggt
gcgcgcccagtcggcgagtcaggttttggagagcgggcgcgcccccgactggtccatgctgttcgccgtgatcaccaccatctt
ctccgccgccgagaagcagtggaccaacctggagtggaagcccaagcccaaccccccccagctgctggacgaccacttcggc
ccccacggcctggtgttccgccgcaccttcgccatccgcagctacgaggtgggccccgaccgctccaccagcatcgtggccgtg
atgaaccacctgcaggaggccgccctgaaccacgccaagtccgtgggcatcctgggcgacggcttcggcaccaccctggaga
tgtccaagcgcgacctgatctgggtggtgaagcgcacccacgtggccgtggagcgctaccccgcctggggcgacaccgtgga
ggtggagtgctgggtgggcgcctccggcaacaacggccgccgccacgacttcctggtgcgcgactgcaagaccggcgagatc
ctgacccgctgcacctccctgagcgtgatgatgaacacccgcacccgccgcctgagcaagatccccgaggaggtgcgcggcg
agatcggccccgccttcatcgacaacgtggccgtgaaggacgaggagatcaagaagccccagaagctgaacgactccaccg
ccgactacatccagggcggcctgaccccccgctggaacgacctggacatcaaccagcacgtgaacaacatcaagtacgtgga
ctggatcctggagaccgtgcccgacagc
atcttcgagagccaccacatctcctccttcaccatcgagtaccgccgcgagtgcaccatggacagcgtgctgcagtccctgacca
ccgtgagcggcggctcctccgaggccggcctggtgtgcgagcacctgctgcagctggagggcggcagcgaggtgctgcgcgc
caagaccgagtggcgccccaagctgaccgactccttccgcggcatcagcgtgatccccgccgagtccagcgtgatggactaca
aggaccacgacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGActcgaggcagcagcagc
tcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgcc
gcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccc
cagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcc
tgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgat
gcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaaagctggtacccgtacccatcagcatccgggtgaatcttggcctccaagat
atggccaatcctcacatccagcttggcaaaatcgactagactgtctgcaagtgggaatgtggagcacaaggttgcttgtagcgatcg
acagactggtggggtacattgacaggtgggcagcgccgcatccatcgtgcctgacgcgagcgccgccggttgctcgcccgtgcctg
ccgtcaaagagcggcagagaaatcgggaaccgaaaacgtcacattgcctgatgttgttacatgctggactagactttcttggcgtgg
                                            394

gtctgctcctcgccaggtgcgcgacgcctcggggctgggtgcgagggagccgtgcggccacgcatttgacaagacccaaagctcgc
atctcagacggtcaaccgttcgtattatacattcaacatatggtacatacgcaaaaagcatgccaacgatgacataggcgaattc
SEQ ID NO: 273
C. camphora C 14: 0 specific thioesterase construct
gctcttcggccgccgccactcctgctcgagcgcgcccgactcgcgctccgcctgcgcccgcgcgtgcgccgccagcgccttggccttt
tcgccgcgctcgtgcgcgtcgctgatgtccatcaccaggtccatgaggtctgccttgcgccggctgagccactgcttcgtccgggcg
gccaagaggagcatgagggaggactcctggtccagggtcctgacgtggtcgcggctctgggagcgggccagcatcatctggctct
gccgca ccgaggccgcctccaa ctggtcctccagcagccgcagtcgccgccga ccctggcagaggaaga caggtgaggggggta
tgaattgtacagaacaaccacgagccttgtctaggcagaatccctaccagtcatggctttacctggatgacggcctgcgaacagct
gtccagcgaccctcgctgccgccgcttctcccgcacgcttctttccagcaccgtgatggcgcgagccagcgccgcacgctggcgctg
cgcttcgccgatctgaggacagtcggggaactctgatcagtctaaacccccttgcgcgttagtgttgccatcctttgcagaccggtg
agagccgacttgttgtgcgccaccccccacaccacctcctcccagaccaattctgtcacctttttggcgaaggcatcggcctcggcct
gcagagaggacagcagtgcccagccgctgggggttggcggatgcacgctca~ctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaal
aggtagggcgggctgcgagacggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgca
tgggcgctccgatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagc
catattcaaacacctagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttl
cgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaaclooc2c2ccATGctgctgcaggccttcctgttcctgctggccggcttcgccgccaagatcagc
gcctccatgacgaacgagacgtccgaccgccccctggtgcacttcacccccaacaagggctggatgaacgaccccaacggcct
gtggtacgacgagaaggacgccaagtggcacctgtacttccagtacaacccgaacgacaccgtctgggggacgcccttgttct
ggggccacgccacgtccgacgacctgaccaactgggaggaccagcccatcgccatcgccccgaagcgcaacgactccggcg
ccttctccggctccatggtggtggactacaacaacacctccggcttcttcaacgacaccatcgacccgcgccagcgctgcgtggc
catctggacctacaacaccccggagtccgaggagcagtacatctcctacagcctggacggcggctacaccttcaccgagtacc
agaagaaccccgtgctggccgccaactccacccagttccgcgacccgaaggtcttctggtacgagccctcccagaagtggatc
atgaccgcggccaagtcccaggactacaagatcgagatctactcctccgacgacctgaagtcctggaagctggagtccgcgtt
cgccaacgagggcttcctcggctaccagtacgagtgccccggcctgatcgaggtccccaccgagcaggaccccagcaagtcct
actgggtgatgttcatctccatcaaccccggcgccccggccggcggctccttcaaccagtacttcgtcggcagcttcaacggcac
ccacttcgaggccttcgacaaccagtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaaggactactacgccctgcagaccttcttcaacaccga
cccgacctacgggagcgccctgggcatcgcgtgggcctccaactgggagtactccgccttcgtgcccaccaacccctggcgctc
ctccatgtccctcgtgcgcaagttctccctcaacaccgagtaccaggccaacccggagacggagctgatcaacctgaaggccg
agccgatcctgaacatcagcaacgccggcccctggagccggttcgccaccaacaccacgttgacgaaggccaacagctacaa
cgtcgacctgtccaacagcaccggcaccctggagttcgagctggtgtacgccgtcaacaccacccagacgatctccaagtccgt
gttcgcggacctctccctctggttcaagggcctggaggaccccgaggagtacctccgcatgggcttcgaggtgtccgcgtcctcc
ttcttcctggaccgcgggaacagcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggagaacccctacttcaccaaccgcatgagcgtgaacaacc
agcccttcaagagcgagaacgacctgtcctactacaaggtgtacggcttgctggaccagaacatcctggagctgtacttcaac
gacggcgacgtcgtgtccaccaacacctacttcatgaccaccgggaacgccctgggctccgtgaacatgacgacgggggtgg
acaacctgttctacatcgacaagttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTGAcaattggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacac
tctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctca
gtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgttt
catatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacag
ccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgg
gaacacaaatggaggatcccgcgtctcgaacagagcgcgcagaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggca
tacaccacaataaccacctgacgaatgcgcttggttcttcgtccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggt
ggcaggtgacaatgatcggtggagctgatggtcgaaacgttcacagcctagggatatcgaattcggccgacaggacgcgcgtca
aaggtgctggtcgtgtatgccctggccggcaggtcgttgctgctgctggttagtgattccgcaaccctgattttggcgtcttatt
ttggcgtggcaaacgctggcgcccgcgagccgggccggcggcgatgcggtgccccacggctgccggaatccaagggagg
                                              395

caagagcgcccgggtcagttgaagggctttacgcgcaaggtacagccgctcctgcaaggctgcgtggtggaattggacgt
gcaggtcctgctgaagttcctccaccgcctcaccagcggacaaagcaccggtgtatcaggtccgtgtcatccactctaaaga
gctcgactacgacctactgatggccctagattcttcatcaaaaacgcctgagacacttgcccaggattgaaactccctgaag
ggaccaccaggggccctgagttgttccttccccccgtggcgagctgccagccaggctgtacctgtgatcgaggctggcggga
aaataggcttcgtgtgctcaggtcatgggaggtgcaggacagctcatgaaacgccaacaatcgcacaattcatgtcaagct
aatcagctatttcctcttcacgagctgtaattgtcccaaaattctggtctaccgggggtgatccttcgtgtacgggcccttccctc
aaccctaggtatgcgcgcatgcggtcgccgcgcaactcgcgcgagggccgagggtttgggacgggccgtcccgaaatgca
gttgcacccggatgcgtggcaccttttttgcgataatttatgcaatggactgctctgcaaaattctggctctgtcgccaacccta
ggatcagcggcgtaggatttcgtaatcattcgtcctgatggggagctaccgactaccctaatatcagcccgactgcctgacgc
cagcgtccacttttgtgcacacattccattcgtgcccaagacatttcattgtggtgcgaagcgtccccagttacgctcacctgttt
cccgacctccttactgttctgtcgacagagcgggcccacaggccggtcgcagccactagtA TGgccaccgcatccactttctcg
gcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgcccagcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgg
qcqcqcccccgactggtccatgctgttcgccgtgatcaccaccatcttctccgccgccgagaagcagtggaccaacctggagtg
gaagcccaagcccaaccccccccagctgctggacgaccacttcggcccccacggcctggtgttccgccgcaccttcgccatccgc
agctacgaggtgggccccgaccgctccaccagcatcgtggccgtgatgaaccacctgcaggaggccgccctgaaccacgcca
agtccgtgggcatcctgggcgacggcttcggcaccaccctggagatgtccaagcgcgacctgatctgggtggtgaagcgcacc
cacgtggccgtggagcgctaccccgcctggggcgacaccgtggaggtggagtgctgggtgggcgcctccggcaacaacggc
cgccgccacgacttcctggtgcgcgactgcaagaccggcgagatcctgacccgctgcacctccctgagcgtgatgatgaacac
ccgcacccgccgcctgagcaagatccccgaggaggtgcgcggcgagatcggccccgccttcatcgacaacgtggccgtgaag
gacgaggagatcaagaagccccagaagctgaacgactccaccgccgactacatccagggcggcctgaccccccgctggaac
gacctggacatcaaccagcacgtgaacaacatcaagtacgtggactggatcctggagaccgtgcccgacagcatcttcgaga
gccaccacatctcctccttcaccatcgagtaccgccgcgagtgcaccatggacagcgtgctgcagtccctgaccaccgtgagcg
gcggctcctccgaggccggcctggtgtgcgagcacctgctgcagctggagggcggcagcgaggtgctgcgcgccaagaccg
agtggcgccccaagctgaccgactccttccgcggcatcagcgtgatccccgccgagtccagcgtgatggactacaaggaccac
gacggcgactacaaggaccacgacatcgactacaaggacgacgacgacaagTGActcgagttaattaactcgaggcagca
gcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatcc
ctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaatacc
acccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcct
gctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgc
tgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaaagctgtagagctccttgttttccagaaggagttgctccttgagccttt
cattctcagcctcgataacctccaaagccgctctaattgtggagggggttcgaatttaaaagcttggaatgttggttcgtgcgtctg
gaacaagcccagacttgttgctcactgggaaaaggaccatcagctccaaaaaacttgccgctcaaaccgcgtacctctgctttcgc
gcaatctgccctgttgaaatcgccaccacattcatattgtgacgcttgagcagtctgtaattgcctcagaatgtggaatcatctgccc
cctgtgcgagcccatgccaggcatgtcgcgggcgaggacacccgccactcgtacagcagaccattatgctacctcacaatagttca
taacagtgaccatatttctcgaagctccccaacgagcacctccatgctctgagtggccaccccccggccctggtgcttgcggagggc
aggtcaaccggcatggggctaccgaaatccccgaccggatcccaccacccccgcgatgggaagaatctctccccgggatgtgggc
ccaccaccagcacaacctgctggcccaggcgagcgtcaaaccataccacacaaatatccttggcatcggccctgaattccttctgc
cgctctgctacccggtgcttctgtccgaagcaggggttgctagggatcgctccgagtccgcaaacccttgtcgcgtggcggggcttg
ttcgagcttgttcgagcttgaagagcctctagagtcgacctgcaggcatgcaagcttggcgtaatcatggtcatagctgtttcctgtgt
gaaattgttatccgctcacaattccacacaacatacgagccggaagcataaagtgtaaagcctggggtgcctaatgagtgagctaa
ctcacattaattgcgttgcgctcactgcccgctttccagtcgggaaacctgtcgtgccagctgcattaatgaatcggccaacgcgcgg
ggagaggcggtttgcgtattgggcgctcttcc
SEQ ID NO: 274
U. Americana C10:0-C16:0 specific thioesterase in a SAD locus
                                             396

gctcttccgcctggagctggtgcagagcatggggcagtttgcggaggagagggtgctccccgtgctgcaccccgtggacaagctgt
ggcagccgcaggacttcctgcccgaccccgagtcgcccgacttcgaggaccaggtggcggagctgcgcgcgcgcgccaaggacct
gcccgacgagtactttgtggtgctggtgggcgacatgatcacggaggaggcgctgccgacctacatggccatgctcaacaccttgg
acggtgtgcgcgacgacacgggcgcggctgaccacccgtgggcgcgctggacgcggcagtgggtggccgaggagaaccggcac
ggcga cctg ctgaa ca agt actgttggctga cggggcgcgtcaa catgcgggccgtggaggtga ccatcaa caa cctgatcaag
agcggcatgaacccgcagacggacaacaacccttacttgggcttcgtctacacctccttccaggagcgcgccaccaagta~
gctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagacggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttl
cgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattg
caaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgc
actccgcta aggggg cgcctctt cctcttcgttt cagtca ca acccgca aa c~ ata tc ala ta tc aA TG ctgctg cog gcctt
cctgttcctgctggccggcttcgccgccaagatcagcgcctccatgacgaacgagacgtccgaccgccccctggtgcacttcacc
cccaacaagggctggatgaacgaccccaacggcctgtggtacgacgagaaggacgccaagtggcacctgtacttccagtac
aacccgaacgacaccgtctgggggacgcccttgttctggggccacgccacgtccgacgacctgaccaactgggaggaccagc
ccatcgccatcgccccgaagcgcaacgactccggcgccttctccggctccatggtggtggactacaacaacacctccggcttctt
caacgacaccatcgacccgcgccagcgctgcgtggccatctggacctacaacaccccggagtccgaggagcagtacatctcct
acagcctggacggcggctacaccttcaccgagtaccagaagaaccccgtgctggccgccaactccacccagttccgcgacccg
aaggtcttctggtacgagccctcccagaagtggatcatgaccgcggccaagtcccaggactacaagatcgagatctactcctc
cgacgacctgaagtcctggaagctggagtccgcgttcgccaacgagggcttcctcggctaccagtacgagtgccccggcctga
tcgaggtccccaccgagcaggaccccagcaagtcctactgggtgatgttcatctccatcaaccccggcgccccggccggcggct
ccttcaaccagtacttcgtcggcagcttcaacggcacccacttcgaggccttcgacaaccagtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaa
ggactactacgccctgcagaccttcttcaacaccgacccgacctacgggagcgccctgggcatcgcgtgggcctccaactggg
agtactccgccttcgtgcccaccaacccctggcgctcctccatgtccctcgtgcgcaagttctccctcaacaccgagtaccaggcc
aacccggagacggagctgatcaacctgaaggccgagccgatcctgaacatcagcaacgccggcccctggagccggttcgcc
accaacaccacgttgacgaaggccaacagctacaacgtcgacctgtccaacagcaccggcaccctggagttcgagctggtgt
acgccgtcaacaccacccagacgatctccaagtccgtgttcgcggacctctccctctggttcaagggcctggaggaccccgagg
agtacctccgcatgggcttcgaggtgtccgcgtcctccttcttcctggaccgcgggaacagcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggag
aacccctacttcaccaaccgcatgagcgtgaacaaccagcccttcaagagcgagaacgacctgtcctactacaaggtgtacgg
cttgctggaccagaacatcctggagctgtacttcaacgacggcgacgtcgtgtccaccaacacctacttcatgaccaccgggaa
cgccctgggctccgtgaacatgacgacgggggtggacaacctgttctacatcgacaagttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTG
Acaattgacggagcgtcgtgcgggagggagtgtgccgagcggggagtcccggtctgtgcgaggcccggcagctgacgctggcga
gccgtacgccccgagggtccccctcccctgcaccctcttccccttccctctgacggccgcgcctgttcttgcatgttcagcgacggatc
ccgcgtctcgaacagagcgcgcagaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataaccacct
gacgaatgcgcttggttcttcgtccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaatgatcg
e:tPPae:cte:atPPtce:aaace:ttcacae:cctaPPPatatce:aattclggccgacaggacgcgcgtcaaaggtgctggtcgtgtat
gccctggccggcaggtcgttgctgctgctggttagtgattccgcaaccctgattttggcgtcttattttggcgtggcaaacgctgg
cgcccgcgagccgggccggcggcgatgcggtgccccacggctgccggaatccaagggaggcaagagcgcccgggtcagtci
gaagggctttacgcgcaaggtacagccgctcctgcaaggctgcgtggtggaattggacgtgcaggtcctgctgaagttcctcc
accgcctcaccagcggacaaagcaccggtgtatcaggtccgtgtcatccactctaaagaactcgactacgacctactgatggc
cctagattcttcatcaaaaacgcctgagacacttgcccaggattgaaactccctgaagggaccaccaggggccctgagttgttc
cttccccccgtggcgagctgccagccaggctgtacctgtgatcgaggctggcgggaaaataggcttcgtgtgctcaggtcatg
ggaggtgcaggacagctcatgaaacgccaacaatcgcacaattcatgtcaagctaatcagctatttcctcttcacgagctgta
attgtcccaaaattctggtctaccgggggtgatccttcgtgtacgggcccttccctcaaccctaggtatgcgcgcatgcggtcgcc
gcgcaactcgcgcgagggccgagggtttgggacgggccgtcccgaaatgcagttgcacccggatgcgtggcaccttttttgcg
ataatttatgcaatggactgctctgcaaaattctggctctgtcgccaaccctaggatcagcggcgtaggatttcgtaatcattcg
tcctgatggggagctaccgactaccctaatatcagcccgactgcctgacgccagcgtccacttttgtgcacacattccattcgtgc
ccaagacatttcattgtggtgcgaagcgtccccagttacgctcacctgtttcccgacctccttactgttctgtcgacagagcgggc
                                                  397

lccacaggccggtcgcagcdactagtATGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgct
cggcgggctccgggccccggcgcccagcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgqqcqcqcccagctgcccgactggagcatgctgct
ggccgcgatcaccaccctgttcctggcggccgagaagcagtggatgatgctggactggaagcccaagcgccccgacatgct
ggtggaccccttcggcctgggccgcttcgtgcaggacggcctggtgttccgcaacaacttcagcatccgcagctacgagatc
ggcgcggaccgcaccgccagcatcgagaccctgatgaaccacctgcaggagaccgccctgaaccacgtgaagagtgtgg
gcctgctggaggacggcctgggcagcacccgcgagatgagcctgcgcaacctgatctgggtggtgaccaagatgcaggtg
gcggtggaccgctaccccacctggggcgacgaggtgcaggtgagcagctgggcgaccgccatcggcaagaacggcatgc
gccgcgagtggatcgtgaccgacttccgcaccggcgagaccctgctgcgcgccaccagcgtgtgggtgatgatgaacaagc
tgacccgccgcatcagcaagatccccgaggaggtgtggcacgagatcggccccagcttcatcgacgcgccccccctgcccac
cgtggaggacgacggccgcaagctgacccgcttcgacgagagcagcgccgacttcatccgcaagggcctgaccccccgctg
gagcgacctggacatcaaccagcacgtgaacaacgtgaagtacatcggctggctgctggagagcgcgccccccgagatcc
acgagagccacgagatcgccagcctgaccctggagtaccgccgcgagtgcggccgcgacagcgtgctgaacagcgccacc
aaggtgagcgacagcagccagctgggcaagagcgccgtggagtgcaaccacctggtgcgcctgcagaacggcggcgag
atcgtgaagggccgcaccgtgtggcgccccaagcgccccctgtacaacgacggcgccgtggtggacgtgcccgccaagacc
agcTGActcgaggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgct
gccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgc
ttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgct
atccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgt
aaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaaagcttgagctccagccacggcaacacc
gcgcgccttgcggccgagca cggcga caagaa cctgagcaagatctgcgggctgatcgccagcga cgagggccggca cgagat
cgcctacacgcgcatcgtggacgagttcttccgcctcgaccccgagggcgccgtcgccgcctacgccaacatgatgcgcaagcag
atcaccatgcccgcgcacctcatggacgacatgggccacggcgaggccaacccgggccgcaacctcttcgccgacttctccgcggt
cgccgagaagatcgacgtctacgacgccgaggactactgccgcatcctggagcacctcaacgcgcgctggaaggtggacgagcg
ccaggtcagcggccaggccgccgcggaccaggagtacgtcctgggcctgccccagcgcttccggaaactcgccgagaagaccgc
cgccaagcgcaagcgcgtcgcgcgcaggcccgtcgccttctcctggagaagagc
SEQ ID NO: 275
coding region for U. Americana C10:0-C16:0 specific thioesterase (codon-optimized)
A TGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgccc
agcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgqqcqcqcccagctgcccgactggagcatgctgctggccgcgatcaccaccctgttcctgg
cggccgagaagcagtggatgatgctggactggaagcccaagcgccccgacatgctggtggaccccttcggcctgggccgct
tcgtgcaggacggcctggtgttccgcaacaacttcagcatccgcagctacgagatcggcgcggaccgcaccgccagcatcg
agaccctgatgaaccacctgcaggagaccgccctgaaccacgtgaagagtgtgggcctgctggaggacggcctgggcag
cacccgcgagatgagcctgcgcaacctgatctgggtggtgaccaagatgcaggtggcggtggaccgctaccccacctggg
gcgacgaggtgcaggtgagcagctgggcgaccgccatcggcaagaacggcatgcgccgcgagtggatcgtgaccgactt
ccgcaccggcgagaccctgctgcgcgccaccagcgtgtgggtgatgatgaacaagctgacccgccgcatcagcaagatccc
cgaggaggtgtggcacgagatcggccccagcttcatcgacgcgccccccctgcccaccgtggaggacgacggccgcaagct
gacccgcttcgacgagagcagcgccgacttcatccgcaagggcctgaccccccgctggagcgacctggacatcaaccagca
cgtgaacaacgtgaagtacatcggctggctgctggagagcgcgccccccgagatccacgagagccacgagatcgccagcc
tgaccctggagtaccgccgcgagtgcggccgcgacagcgtgctgaacagcgccaccaaggtgagcgacagcagccagct
gggcaagagcgccgtggagtgcaaccacctggtgcgcctgcagaacggcggcgagatcgtgaagggccgcaccgtgtgg
cgccccaagcgccccctgtacaacgacggcgccgtggtggacgtgcccgccaagaccagcTGA
SEQ ID NO: 276
C. wrightii KASAI + C. wrightii FatB2 thioesterase + suc2 construct
                                            398

gctcttcgccgccgccactcctgctcgagcgcgcccgcgcgtgcgccgccagcgccttggccttttcgccgcgctcgtgcgcgtcgct
gatgtccatcaccaggtccatgaggtctgccttgcgccggctgagccactgcttcgtccgggcggccaagaggagcatgagggagg
actcctggtccagggtcctgacgtggtcgcggctctgggagcgggccagcatcatctggctctgccgcaccgaggccgcctccaact
ggtcctccagcagccgcagtcgccgccgaccctggcagaggaagacaggtgaggggggtatgaattgtacagaacaaccacgag
ccttgtctaggcagaatccctaccagtcatggctttacctggatgacggcctgcgaacagctgtccagcgaccctcgctgccgccgct
tctcccgcacgcttctttccagcaccgtgatggcgcgagccagcgccgcacgctggcgctgcgcttcgccgatctgaggacagtcgg
ggaactctgatcagtctaaacccccttgcgcgttagtgttgccatcctttgcagaccggtgagagccgacttgttgtgcgccacccccc
acaccacctcctcccagaccaattctgtcacctttttggcgaaggcatcggcctcggcctgcagagaggacagcagtgcccagccgc
tgggggttggcggatgcacgctcaggtacclctttcttgcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagacggcttcc
cggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctccagggcgal
gcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagcatattcaaacacctagatcactaccactt
ctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcccttcgtttcagtcacaacccgcaaad1111ce:ce:c
f_atat caA TG ctg ctgca gg ccttcctgttcctg ctg gccg gcttcgccg cca agatea gcgcctccatg acg aacg agacgtc
cgaccgccccctggtgcacttcacccccaacaagggctggatgaacgaccccaacggcctgtggtacgacgagaaggacgcc
aagtggcacctgtacttccagtacaacccgaacgacaccgtctgggggacgcccttgttctggggccacgccacgtccgacga
cctgaccaactgggaggaccagcccatcgccatcgccccgaagcgcaacgactccggcgccttctccggctccatggtggtgg
actacaacaacacctccggcttcttcaacgacaccatcgacccgcgccagcgctgcgtggccatctggacctacaacaccccgg
agtccgaggagcagtacatctcctacagcctggacggcggctacaccttcaccgagtaccagaagaaccccgtgctggccgcc
aactccacccagttccgcgacccgaaggtcttctggtacgagccctcccagaagtggatcatgaccgcggccaagtcccagga
ctacaagatcgagatctactcctccgacgacctgaagtcctggaagctggagtccgcgttcgccaacgagggcttcctcggcta
ccagtacgagtgccccggcctgatcgaggtccccaccgagcaggaccccagcaagtcctactgggtgatgttcatctccatcaa
ccccggcgccccggccggcggctccttcaaccagtacttcgtcggcagcttcaacggcacccacttcgaggccttcgacaacca
gtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaaggactactacgccctgcagaccttcttcaacaccgacccgacctacgggagcgccctgg
gcatcgcgtgggcctccaactgggagtactccgccttcgtgcccaccaacccctggcgctcctccatgtccctcgtgcgcaagttc
tccctcaacaccgagtaccaggccaacccggagacggagctgatcaacctgaaggccgagccgatcctgaacatcagcaac
gccggcccctggagccggttcgccaccaacaccacgttgacgaaggccaacagctacaacgtcgacctgtccaacagcaccg
gcaccctggagttcgagctggtgtacgccgtcaacaccacccagacgatctccaagtccgtgttcgcggacctctccctctggtt
caagggcctggaggaccccgaggagtacctccgcatgggcttcgaggtgtccgcgtcctccttcttcctggaccgcgggaaca
gcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggagaacccctacttcaccaaccgcatgagcgtgaacaaccagcccttcaagagcgagaacg
acctgtcctactacaaggtgtacggcttgctggaccagaacatcctggagctgtacttcaacgacggcgacgtcgtgtccacca
acacctacttcatgaccaccgggaacgccctgggctccgtgaacatgacgacgggggtggacaacctgttctacatcgacaag
ttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTGAcaattggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatgga
ctgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgc
gcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccg
caacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctcctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgt
attctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaggatcc
cgcgtctcgaacagagcgcgcagaggaacgctgaaggtctcgcctctgtcgcacctcagcgcggcatacaccacaataacca
cctgacgaatgcgcttggttcttcgtccattagcgaagcgtccggttcacacacgtgccacgttggcgaggtggcaggtgacaa
tgatcggtggagctgatggtcgaaacgttcacagcctagg2atatc2aattdggcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggc
gggctgcgagacggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctcc
gatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaa
cacctagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcg
gccgacaggacgcgcgtcaaaggtgctggtcgtgtatgccctggccggcaggtcgttgctgctgctggttagtgattccgcaaccct
gattttggcgtcttattttggcgtggcaaacgctggcgcccgcgagccgggccggcggcgatgcggtgccccacggctgccggaatc
caagggaggcaagagcgcccgggtcagttgaagggctttacgcgcaaggtacagccgctcctgcaaggctgcgtggtggaattgg
acgtgcaggtcctgctgaagttcctccaccgcctcaccagcggacaaagcaccggtgtatcaggtccgtgtcatccactctaaagag
                                                    399

ctcgactacgacctactgatggccctagattcttcatcaaaaacgcctgagacacttgcccaggattgaaactccctgaagggacca
ccaggggccctgagttgttccttccccccgtggcgagctgccagccaggctgtacctgtgatcgaggctggcgggaaaataggcttc
gtgtgctcaggtcatgggaggtgcaggacagctcatgaaacgccaacaatcgcacaattcatgtcaagctaatcagctatttcctct
tcacgagctgtaattgtcccaaaattctggtctaccgggggtgatccttcgtgtacgggcccttccctcaaccctaggtatgcgcgcat
gcggtcgccgcgcaactcgcgcgagggccgagggtttgggacgggccgtcccgaaatgcagttgcacccggatgcgtggcaccttt
tttgcgataatttatgcaatggactgctctgcaaaattctggctctgtcgccaaccctaggatcagcggcgtaggatttcgtaatcatt
cgt cctgatgggga get a ccga eta cc eta atat cagcccga ctg cctga cgccagcgt cca cttttgtgca ca ca tt ccatt cgtgc
ccaagacatttcattgtggtgcgaagcgtccccagttacgctcacctgtttcccgacctccttactgttctgtcgacagagcgggccca
caggccggtcgcagcclcatATGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcggg
ctccgggccccggcgcccagcgaggcccctccccgtgcgctacgtattccagtgcctggtggccagctgcatcgacccctgcga
ccagtaccgcagcagcgccagcctgagcttcctgggcgacaacggcttcgccagcctgttcggcagcaagcccttcatgagca
accgcggccaccgccgcctgcgccgcgccagccacagcggcgaggccatggccgtggccctgcagcccgcccaggaggccg
gcaccaagaagaagcccgtgatcaagcagcgccgcgtggtggtgaccggcatgggcgtggtgacccccctgggccacgagc
ccgacgtgttctacaacaacctgctggacggcgtgagcggcatcagcgagatcgagaccttcgactgcacccagttccccacc
cgcatcgccggcgagatcaagagcttcagcaccgacggctgggtggcccccaagctgagcaagcgcatggacaagttcatg
ctgtacctgctgaccgccggcaagaaggccctggccgacggcggcatcaccgacgaggtgatgaaggagctggacaagcgc
aagtgcggcgtgctgatcggcagcggcatgggcggcatgaaggtgttcaacgacgccatcgaggccctgcgcgtgagctac
aagaagatgaaccccttctgcgtgcccttcgccaccaccaacatgggcagcgccatgctggccatggacctgggctggatggg
ccccaactacagcatcagcaccgcctgcgccaccagcaacttctgcatcctgaacgccgccaaccacatcatccgcggcgagg
ccgacatgatgctgtgcggcggcagcgacgccgtgatcatccccatcggcctgggcggcttcgtggcctgccgcgccctgagcc
agcgcaacagcgaccccaccaaggccagccgcccctgggacagcaaccgcgacggcttcgtgatgggcgagggcgccggc
gtgctgctgctggaggagctggagcacgccaagaagcgcggcgccaccatctacgccgagttcctgggcggcagcttcacct
gcgacgcctaccacatgaccgagccccaccccgagggcgccggcgtgatcctgtgcatcgagaaggccctggcccaggccgg
cgtgagcaaggaggacgtgaactacatcaacgcccacgccaccagcaccagcgccggcgacatcaaggagtaccaggccct
ggcccgctgcttcggccagaacagcgagctgcgcgtgaacagcaccaagagcatgatcggccacctgctgggcgccgccggc
ggcgtggaggccgtgaccgtggtgcaggccatccgcaccggctggattcaccccaacctgaacctggaggaccccgacaag
gccgtggacgccaagctgctggtgggccccaagaaggagcgcctgaacgtgaaggtgggcctgagcaacagcttcggcttc
ggcggccacaacagcagcatcctgttcgccccctgcaacgtgTGAatgcatacggagcgtcgtgcgggagggagtgtgccgag
cggggagtcccggtctgtgcgaggcccggcagctgacgctggcgagccgtacgccccgagggtccccctcccctcccccctcttccc
cttccctctgacggccgcgcctgtttttgcatgttcagcgaccttaagqatctaaqtaaqattcqaaqcqctcqaccqtqccqqac
qqactqcaqccccatqtcqtaqtqaccqccaatqtaaqtqqqctqqcqtttccctqtacqtqactcaacqtcactqcacqcqca
ccaccctctcaaccaacaaaaccaaacatcacaaaatacaacacaaaccaaacacaaaataccaaactatacacacactcc
aactaeatatceaattclggcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagacggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaaca
ccgatgatgcttcgaccccccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagcca
ggcccccgattgcaaagacattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcg
agcttgtgatcgcactccgctaagggggcgcctcttcctcttcgtttcagtcggccgacaggacgcgcgtcaaaggtgctggtcgtgt
atgccctggccggcaggtcgttgctgctgctggttagtgattccgcaaccctgattttggcgtcttattttggcgtggcaaacgctggc
gcccgcgagccgggccggcggcgatgcggtgccccacggctgccggaatccaagggaggcaagagcgcccgggtcagttgaagg
gctttacgcgcaaggtacagccgctcctgcaaggctgcgtggtggaattggacgtgcaggtcctgctgaagttcctccaccgcctca
ccagcggacaaagcaccggtgtatcaggtccgtgtcatccactctaaagagctcgactacgacctactgatggccctagattcttca
tcaaaaacgcctgagacacttgcccaggattgaaactccctgaagggaccaccaggggccctgagttgttccttccccccgtggcg
agctgccagccaggctgtacctgtgatcgaggctggcgggaaaataggcttcgtgtgctcaggtcatgggaggtgcaggacagctc
atgaaacgccaacaatcgcacaattcatgtcaagctaatcagctatttcctcttcacgagctgtaattgtcccaaaattctggtctacc
gggggtgatccttcgtgtacgggcccttccctcaaccctaggtatgcgcgcatgcggtcgccgcgcaactcgcgcgagggccgagg
gtttgggacgggccgtcccgaaatgcagttgcacccggatgcgtggcaccttttttgcgataatttatgcaatggactgctctgcaaa
attctggctctgtcgccaaccctaggatcagcggcgtaggatttcgtaatcattcgtcctgatggggagctaccgactaccctaatat
                                                    400

cagcccgactgcctgacgccagcgtccacttttgtgcacacattccattcgtgcccaagacatttcattgtggtgcgaagcgtcccca
gttacgctcacctgtttcccgacctccttactgttctgtcgacagagcgggcccacaggccggtcgcagccactagtA TGgccacc
gcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgcccagcgaggccc
ctccccgtgcgcgggcgcgcccccaaggccaacggcagcgccgtgagcctgaagtccggcagcctgaacaccctggaggacc
cccccagcagcccccccccccgcaccttcctgaaccagctgcccgactggagccgcctgcgcaccgccatcaccaccgtgttcgt
ggccgccgagaagcagttcacccgcctggaccgcaagagcaagcgccccgacatgctggtggactggttcggcagcgagac
catcgtgcaggacggcctggtgttccgcgagcgcttcagcatccgcagctacgagatcggcgccgaccgcaccgccagcatcg
agaccctgatgaaccacctgcaggacaccagcctgaaccactgcaagagcgtgggcctgctgaacgacggcttcggccgcac
ccccgagatgtgcacccgcgacctgatctgggtgctgaccaagatgcagatcgtggtgaaccgctaccccacctggggcgaca
ccgtggagatcaacagctggttcagccagagcggcaagatcggcatgggccgcgagtggctgatcagcgactgcaacaccg
gcgagatcctggtgcgcgccaccagcgcctgggccatgatgaaccagaagacccgccgcttcagcaagctgccctgcgaggt
gcgccaggagatcgccccccacttcgtggacgccccccccgtgatcgaggacaacgaccgcaagdgcacaagttcgacgtg
aagaccggcgacagcatctgcaagggcctgacccccggctggaacgacttcgacgtgaaccagcacgtgagcaacgtgaag
tacatcggctggattctggagagcatgcccaccgaggtgctggagacccaggagctgtgcagcctgaccctggagtaccgcc
gcgagtgcggccgcgagagcgtggtggagagcgtgaccagcatgaaccccagcaaggtgggcgaccgcagccagtacca
gcacctgctgcgcctggaggacggcgccgacatcatgaagggccgcaccgagtggcgccccaagaacgccggcaccaaccg
cgccatcagcaccTGAttaattaactcgaggcagcagcagctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggac
tgttgccgcca ca cttgctgccttga cctgtgaatatccctgccgcttttatca aacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgta cg cg
cttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacccccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgc
aa cttatcta cgctgtcctgctatccctcag cgctgctcctgctcctgctca ctgcccctcgca cagccttggtttgggctccgcctgta
ttctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgatgcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaaagcttg
agctcttgttttccagaaggagttgctccttgagcctttcattctcagcctcgataacctccaaagccgctctaattgtggagggggttc
gaatttaaaagcttggaatgttggttcgtgcgtctggaacaagcccagacttgttgctcactgggaaaaggaccatcagctccaaaa
aacttgccgctcaaaccgcgtacctctgctttcgcgcaatctgccctgttgaaatcgccaccacattcatattgtgacgcttgagcagt
ctgtaattgcctcagaatgtggaatcatctgccccctgtgcgagcccatgccaggcatgtcgcgggcgaggacacccgccactcgta
cagcagaccattatgctacctcacaatagttcataacagtgaccatatttctcgaagctccccaacgagcacctccatgctctgagtg
gccaccccccggccctggtgcttgcggagggcaggtcaaccggcatggggctaccgaaatccccgaccggatcccaccacccccgc
gatgggaagaatctctccccgggatgtgggcccaccaccagcacaacctgctggcccaggcgagcgtcaaaccataccacacaaa
tatccttggcatcggccctgaattccttctgccgctctgctacccggtgcttctgtccgaagcaggggttgctagggatcgctccgagt
ccgcaaacccttgtcgcgtggcggggcttgttcgagcttgaagagc
SEQ ID NO: 277
coding region for C. wrightii KASAl (codon-optimized)
ATGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgccca
gcgaggcccctccccgtgcgctacgtattccagtgcctggtggccagctgcatcgacccctgcgaccagtaccgcagcagcgcc
agcctgagcttcctgggcgacaacggcttcgccagcctgttcggcagcaagcccttcatgagcaaccgcggccaccgccgcct
gcgccgcgccagccacagcggcgaggccatggccgtggccctgcagcccgcccaggaggccggcaccaagaagaagcccg
tgatcaagcagcgccgcgtggtggtgaccggcatgggcgtggtgacccccctgggccacgagcccgacgtgttctacaacaa
cctgctggacggcgtgagcggcatcagcgagatcgagaccttcgactgcacccagttccccacccgcatcgccggcgagatca
agagcttcagcaccgacggctgggtggcccccaagctgagcaagcgcatggacaagttcatgctgtacctgctgaccgccgg
caagaaggccctggccgacggcggcatcaccgacgaggtgatgaaggagctggacaagcgcaagtgcggcgtgctgatcg
gcagcggcatgggcggcatgaaggtgttcaacgacgccatcgaggccctgcgcgtgagctacaagaagatgaaccccttctg
cgtgcccttcgccaccaccaacatgggcagcgccatgctggccatggacctgggctggatgggccccaactacagcatcagca
ccgcctgcgccaccagcaacttctgcatcctgaacgccgccaaccacatcatccgcggcgaggccgacatgatgctgtgcggc
ggcagcgacgccgtgatcatccccatcggcctgggcggcttcgtggcctgccgcgccctgagccagcgcaacagcgaccccac
caaggccagccgcccctgggacagcaaccgcgacggcttcgtgatgggcgagggcgccggcgtgctgctgctggaggagct
                                               401

   ggagcacgccaagaagcgcggcgccaccatctacgccgagttcctgggcggcagcttcacctgcgacgcctaccacatgacc
   gagccccaccccgagggcgccggcgtgatcctgtgcatcgagaaggccctggcccaggccggcgtgagcaaggaggacgtg
   aactacatcaacgcccacgccaccagcaccagcgccggcgacatcaaggagtaccaggccctggcccgctgcttcggccaga
   acagcgagctgcgcgtgaacagcaccaagagcatgatcggccacctgctgggcgccgccggcggcgtggaggccgtgaccg
   tggtgcaggccatccgcaccggctggattcaccccaacctgaacctggaggaccccgacaaggccgtggacgccaagctgct
   ggtgggccccaagaaggagcgcctgaacgtgaaggtgggcctgagcaacagcttcggcttcggcggccacaacagcagcat
   cctgttcgccccctgcaacgtgTGA
   SEQ ID NO: 278
~  coding region for C. wrightii FatB2 thioesterase (codon-optimized)
~
N
~  ATGgccaccgcatccactttctcggcgttcaatgcccgctgcggcgacctgcgtcgctcggcgggctccgggccccggcgccca
~  gcgaggcccctccccgtgcgcgggcgcgcccccaaggccaacggcagcgccgtgagcctgaagtccggcagcctgaacaccc
00 tggaggacccccccagcagcccccccccccgcaccttcctgaaccagctgcccgactggagccgcctgcgcaccgccatcacca
~  ccgtgttcgtggccgccgagaagcagttcacccgcctggaccgcaagagcaagcgccccgacatgctggtggactggttcggc
~  agcgagaccatcgtgcaggacggcctggtgttccgcgagcgcttcagcatccgcagctacgagatcggcgccgaccgcaccg
   ccagcatcgagaccctgatgaaccacctgcaggacaccagcctgaaccactgcaagagcgtgggcctgctgaacgacggctt
   cggccgcacccccgagatgtgcacccgcgacctgatctgggtgctgaccaagatgcagatcgtggtgaaccgctaccccacct
   ggggcgacaccgtggagatcaacagctggttcagccagagcggcaagatcggcatgggccgcgagtggctgatcagcgact
   gcaacaccggcgagatcctggtgcgcgccaccagcgcctgggccatgatgaaccagaagacccgccgcttcagcaagctgcc
   ctgcgaggtgcgccaggagatcgccccccacttcgtggacgccccccccgtgatcgaggacaacgaccgcaagctgcacaag
   ttcgacgtgaagaccggcgacagcatctgcaagggcctgacccccggctggaacgacttcgacgtgaaccagcacgtgagc
   aacgtgaagtacatcggctggattctggagagcatgcccaccgaggtgctggagacccaggagctgtgcagcctgaccctgg
   agtaccgccgcgagtgcggccgcgagagcgtggtggagagcgtgaccagcatgaaccccagcaaggtgggcgaccgcagc
   cagtaccagcacctgctgcgcctggaggacggcgccgacatcatgaagggccgcaccgagtggcgccccaagaacgccggc
   accaaccgcgccatcagcaccTGA
   SEQ ID NO: 279
   KASII-allele_l_cDNA
   ATGCAGACCGCGCACCAGCGGCCCCCGACCGAGGGGCACTGCTTCGGTGCGAGGCTGCCCACGGCGTC
   GAGGCGGGCGGTGCGCCGGGCATGGTCCCGCATCGCGCGCGCGGCGGCCGCGGCCGACGCAAACCCCG
   CCCGCCCTGAGCGCCGCGTGGTCATCACGGGCCAGGGCGTGGTGACCAGCCTGGGCCAGACGATCGAG
   CAGTTTTACAGCAGCCTGCTGGAGGGCGTGAGCGGCATCTCGCAGATACAGAAGTTCGACACCACGGG
   CTACACGACGACGATCGCGGGCGAGATCAAGTCGCTGCAGCTGGACCCGTACGTGCCCAAGCGCTGGG
   CGAAGCGCGTGGACGACGTGATAAAGTACGTCTACATCGCGGGCAAGCAGGCGCTGGAGAGCGCCGGC
   CTGCCGATCGAGGCGGCGGGGCTGGCGGGCGCGGGGCTGGACCCGGCGCTGTGCGGCGTGCTCATCGG
   CACCGCCATGGCGGGCATGACGTCTTTCGCGGCGGGCGTGGAGGCGCTGACGCGCGGCGGCGTGCGCA
   AGATGAACCCCTTTTGCATCCCCTTCTCCATCTCCAACATGGGCGGCGCGATGCTGGCGATGGACATC
   GGCTTCATGGGCCCCAACTACTCCATCTCCACGGCCTGCGCGACGGGCAACTACTGCATCCTGGGCGC
   GGCGGACCACATCCGGCGCGGCGACGCAAACGTGATGCTGGCCGGCGGCGCGGACGCGGCCATCATCC
   CCTCGGGCATCGGCGGCTTCATCGCGTGCAAGGCGCTGAGCAAGCGCAACGACGAGCCCGAGCGCGCG
   AGCCGGCCCTGGGACGCCGACCGCGACGGCTTCGTCATGGGCGAGGGCGCCGGCGTGCTGGTGCTGGA
   GGAGCTGGAGCACGCCAAGCGCCGCGGCGCGACCATTTTGGCTGAATTAGTTGGCGGCGCGGCCACCT
   CGGACGCGCACCACATGACCGAGCCCGACCCGCAGGGCCGCGGCGTGCGCCTCTGCCTCGAGCGCGCG
   CTCGAGCGCGCGCGCCTCGCGCCCGAGCGCGTCGGCTACGTCAACGCGCACGGCACCAGCACGCCCGC
   GGGCGACGTGGCCGAGTACCGCGCCATCCGCGCCGTCATCCCGCAGGACTCACTACGCATCAACTCCA
   CAAAGTCCATGATCGGGCACCTGCTCGGCGGCGCCGGCGCGGTCGAGGCCGTGGCCGCCATCCAGGCC
   CTGCGCACCGGCTGGCTCCACCCCAACTTGAACCTCGAGAACCCCGCGCCTGGCGTCGACCCCGTCGT
   GCTCGTGGGGCCGCGGAAGGAGCGCGCCGAAGACCTGGACGTCGTCCTCTCCAACTCCTTTGGCTTTG
   GCGGGCACAATTCGTGCGTCATCTTCCGAAAGTACGACGAGTGA
                                                 402

SEQ ID NO: 280
KASII-allele_2_cDNA
ATGCAGACCGCGCACCAGCGGCCCCCGACCGAGGGGCACTGCTTCGGTGCGAGGCTGCCCACGGCGTC
GAGGCGGGCGGTGCGCCGGGCGTGGTCCCGCATCGCGCGCGCGGCGGCCGCGGCCGACGCGACCCCCG
CCCGCCCTCCGCGCCGCGTGGTCGTGACGGGCCAGGGCGTGGTGACCAGCCTGGGCCAGACGATCGAG
CAGTTTTACAGCAGCCTGCTGGAGGGCGTGAGCGGCATCTCGCAGATCCAAAAGTTTGACACCACGGG
CTACACGACGACGATCGCGGGCGAGATCAAGTCGCTGCAGCTGGACCCGTACGTGCCCAAGCGCTGGG
CCAAGCGCGTGGACGACGTCATCAAGTACGTCTACATCGCGGGCAAGCAGGCGCTGGAGAACGCGGGG
CTGCCGATCGAGGCGGCGGGGCTGGCGGGCGCGGGGCTGGACCCCGCGCTGTGCGGCGTGCTCATCGG
CACCGCCATGGCGGGCATGACGTCCTTCGCGGCGGGCGTGGAGGCGCTGACGCGCGGCGGCGTGCGCA
AGATGAACCCCTTTTGCATCCCCTTCTCCATCTCCAACATGGGCGGCGCGATGCTGGCGATGGACATC
GGCTTCATGGGCCCCAACTACTCCATCTCCACGGCCTGCGCGACGGGCAACTACTGCATCCTGGGCGC
GGCGGACCACATCCGGCGCGGCGACGCGGACGTGATGCTGGCCGGCGGCGCGGACGCGGCCATCATCC
CCTCGGGCATCGGCGGCTTCATCGCGTGCAAGGCGCTGAGCAAGCGCAACGACGAGCCCGAGCGCGCG
AGCCGGCCCTGGGACGCCGACCGCGACGGCTTCGTCATGGGCGAGGGCGCCGGCGTGCTGGTGCTGGA
GGAGCTGGAGCACGCCAAGCGCCGCGGCGCGACCATCCTGGCCGAATTCGTCGGCGGCGCGGCCACCT
CGGACGCGCACCACATGACCGAGCCGGACCCGCAGGGCCGCGGCGTGCGCCTCTGCCTCGAACGCGCG
CTCGAGCGCGCGCGCCTCGCGCCCGAGCGCGTCGGCTACGTCAACGCGCACGGCACCAGCACGCCCGC
GGGCGACGTGGCCGAGTACCGCGCCATCCGCGCCGTCATCCCGCAGGACTCGCTGCGCATCAACTCCA
CCAAGTCCATGATCGGGCACCTGCTCGGCGGCGCCGGCGCGGTCGAGGCCGTGGCCGCCATCCAGGCC
CTGCGCACCGGCTGGCTCCACCCCAACCTCAACCTCGAGAACCCCGCACCCGGGGTCGACCCCGTCGT
GCTCGTGGGGCCGCGCAAGGAGCGCGCCGAAGACCTCGACGTCGTCCTCTCCAACTCCTTTGGCTTCG
GCGGGCACAACTCGTGCGTCATCTTCCAAAAGTACGACGAGTGA
SEQ ID NO: 281
KASII-allele_l
MQTAHQRPPTEGHCFGARLPTASRRAVRRAWSRIARAAAAADANPARPERRVVITGQGVVTSLGQTIE
QFYSSLLEGVSGISQIQKFDTTGYTTTIAGEIKSLQLDPYVPKRWAKRVDDVIKYVYIAGKQALESAG
LPIEAAGLAGAGLDPALCGVLIGTAMAGMTSFAAGVEALTRGGVRKMNPFCIPFSISNMGGAMLAMDI
GFMGPNYSISTACATGNYCILGAADHIRRGDANVMLAGGADAAIIPSGIGGFIACKALSKRNDEPERA
SRPWDADRDGFVMGEGAGVLVLEELEHAKRRGATILAELVGGAATSDAHHMTEPDPQGRGVRLCLERA
LERARLAPERVGYVNAHGTSTPAGDVAEYRAIRAVIPQDSLRINSTKSMIGHLLGGAGAVEAVAAIQA
LRTGWLHPNLNLENPAPGVDPVVLVGPRKERAEDLDVVLSNSFGFGGHNSCVIFRKYDE
SEQ ID NO: 282
KASII-allele_2
MQTAHQRPPTEGHCFGARLPTASRRAVRRAWSRIARAAAAADATPARPPRRVVVTGQGVVT
SLGQTIEQFYSSLLEGVSGISQIQKFDTTGYTTTIAGEIKSLQLDPYVPKRWAKRVDDVIKYVY
IAGKQALENAGLPIEAAGLAGAGLDPALCGVLIGTAMAGMTSFAAGVEALTRGGVRKMNPF
CIPFSISNMGGAMLAMDIGFMGPNYSISTACATGNYCILGAADHIRRGDADVMLAGGADAAI
IPSGIGGFIACKALSKRNDEPERASRPWDADRDGFVMGEGAGVLVLEELEHAKRRGATILAEF
VGGAATSDAHHMTEPDPQGRGVRLCLERALERARLAPERVGYVNAHGTSTPAGDVAEYRAI
RAVIPQDSLRINSTKSMIGHLLGGAGAVEA VAAIQALRTGWLHPNLNLENPAPGVDPVVLVG
PRKERAEDLDVVLSNSFGFGGHNSCVIFQKYDE
SEQ ID NO: 283
pSZ1503
gctcttcccgcaccggctggctccaccccaacttgaacctcgagaaccccgcgcctggcgtcgaccccgtcgtgctcgtggggccgc
ggaaggagcgcgccgaagacctggacgtcgtcctctccaactcctttggctttggcgggcacaattcgtgcgtcggtacc!Ctttctt!
                                           403

gcgctatgacacttccagcaaaaggtagggcgggctgcgagacggcttcccggcgctgcatgcaacaccgatgatgcttcgacccc
ccgaagctccttcggggctgcatgggcgctccgatgccgctccagggcgagcgctgtttaaatagccaggcccccgattgcaaaga
cattatagcgagctaccaaagccatattcaaacacctagatcactaccacttctacacaggccactcgagcttgtgatcgcactccg
eta agggggcg cct ctt cctcttcgttt ca gt ca caa cccgca a aclP"P"Ce:ce:ccA TGetgetgeag geetteetgtteetg etg gee
ggettegeegecaagateagegeetecatgaegaaegagaegteegaeegeeeeetggtgcacttcaeeeecaacaagggetg
gatgaacgaccccaacggcctgtggtacgacgagaaggacgccaagtggcacctgtacttccagtacaacccgaacgacac
egtctgggggacgccettgttctggggccaegccaegtccgaegaectgaecaactgggaggaecagcecategecatcgcec
cgaagcgcaacgactccggcgccttctccggctccatggtggtggactacaacaacacctccggcttcttcaacgacaccatcg
acccgcgccagcgctgcgtggccatctggacctacaacaccccggagtccgaggagcagtacatctcctacagcctggacggc
ggctacaccttcaccgagtaccagaagaaccccgtgctggccgccaactccacccagttccgcgacccgaaggtcttctggtac
gagccctcccagaagtggatcatgaccgcggccaagtcccaggactacaagatcgagatctactcctccgacgacctgaagtc
etggaagctggagtcegegttegceaacgagggcttectcggctaecagtacgagtgecccggcetgategaggtceceaceg
agcaggaccccagcaagtcctactgggtgatgttcatctccatcaaccccggcgccccggccggcggctccttcaaccagtactt
cgtcggcagcttcaacggcacccacttcgaggccttcgacaaccagtcccgcgtggtggacttcggcaaggactactacgccct
gcagaccttcttcaacaccgacccgacctacgggagcgccctgggcatcgcgtgggcctccaactgggagtactccgccttcgt
gcccaccaacccctggcgctcctccatgtccctcgtgcgcaagttctccctcaacaccgagtaccaggccaacccggagacgga
gctgatcaacctgaaggecgagecgatectgaacateageaaegecggcecetggagccggttegecaecaacaccacgttg
acgaaggccaacagctacaacgtcgacctgtccaacagcaccggcaccctggagttcgagctggtgtacgccgtcaacacca
cccagacgatctccaagtccgtgttcgcggacctctccctctggttcaagggcctggaggaccccgaggagtacctccgcatgg
gcttcgaggtgtccgcgtcctccttcttcctggaccgcgggaacagcaaggtgaagttcgtgaaggagaacccctacttcacca
accgcatgagcgtgaacaaccagcccttcaagagcgagaacgacctgtcctactacaaggtgtacggcttgctggaccagaa
eatcetggagctgtactteaacgacggcgacgtegtgtccaceaacaectacttcatgaceacegggaacgecetgggetecgt
gaacatgacgacgggggtggacaacctgttctacatcgacaagttccaggtgcgcgaggtcaagTGAcaattggcagcagc
agctcggatagtatcgacacactctggacgctggtcgtgtgatggactgttgccgccacacttgctgccttgacctgtgaatatccctg
ccgcttttatcaaacagcctcagtgtgtttgatcttgtgtgtacgcgcttttgcgagttgctagctgcttgtgctatttgcgaataccacc
cccagcatccccttccctcgtttcatatcgcttgcatcccaaccgcaacttatctacgctgtcctgctatccctcagcgctgctcctgctc
ctgctcactgcccctcgcacagccttggtttgggctccgcctgtattctcctggtactgcaacctgtaaaccagcactgcaatgctgat
gcacgggaagtagtgggatgggaacacaaatggaggatcgtagagctcatcttccgaaagtacgacgagtgagcgagctgattct
ctttgagcggggtcgggtggttcggggagagtgcgcggaaaggcgcagagacgtgcggccggccgtgtccctccgtcttcccctgg
ttggtgctatagtaacctgcctgtgtcgcgtgcgcgtcgggaagagc
SEQ ID NO: 284
Ganoderma tsugae manganese-superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) gene, partial eds., Genbank
ACCESSION U56106 VERSION                 U56106.1
CTCCACCACA      AGAAGCACCA         CCAGACCTAC        GTGAACGCGC          TCAACGCCGC    AGAGCAGGCC
TACGCCAAGG      CCACCACCCC         CAAGGAGCGC        ATCGCCCTCC          AGTCCGCCCT    CAAGTTCAAC
GGCGGTGGTG      AGTGAATTTC         GCGAATGTCG        GCTCACCGCG          ACGCGATTAC    GAATCCGCTA
ACTCTAACAC      TTTGCTGCGG         GGGATGTGCA        GGTCACATCA          ACCACTCCCT    CTTCTGGAAG
AACCTCGCCC      CAGCCAAGTC         TGAGGGCAAG        GGAAACGGCG          GCGCCATCAA    GGACGGCCCC
CTCAAGTCGG      CGATCGAGCA         GAACTTTGGT        TCCGTCGACG          TCTTCATCAA    GGAGTTCAAC
GCGACCACCG      CGTCCATCCA         GGGCTCCGGC        TGGGGCTGGC          TCGTGAGTCT    TCTCTTCTGC
GATCGGAAGG      CGCATCCGGT         GTTATGGTCG        CGCGCTGCAC          GCGTGTCTCG    CTTCGGCTCC
GCCGTCGAAG      CGCTGATACC         GAGACCGATC        TGCTGCAAAT          CATTTGCGCT    GCGATAGAGC
TCCGGGGGCT      TTAACCCTTC         GTTCCATGTG        ATAAGACCGC          GTCTGACCGG    GTGGTGTTTT
CTATCGCAGG      GTCTCAACCC         GGCGACCAAG        CGCCTCGAGA          TCACGACGAC    GGCCAACCAG
GACCCTCTCC      TCACGCACGT         CCCCATCATC        GGCGTCGACA          TCTGGGAGCA    CGCGTTC
SEQ ID NO: 285
                                                     404

Umbellularia californica (California bay) thioesterase mRNA, complete eds., Genbank ACCESSION
M94159 VERSION          M94159.1
AGAGAGAGAG       AGAGAGAGAG        AGCTAAATTA      AAAAAAAAAC    CCAGAAGTGG      GAAATCTTCC
CCATGAAATA       ACGGATCCTC        TTGCTACTGC       TACTACTACT  ACTACAAACT       GTAGCCATTT
ATATAATTCT       ATATAATTTT        CAACATGGCC      ACCACCTCTT    TAGCTTCCGC      TTTCTGCTCG
ATGAAAGCTG       TAATGTTGGC        TCGTGATGGC       CGGGGCATGA  AACCCAGGAG       CAGTGATTTG
CAGCTGAGGG       CGGGAAATGC        GCCAACCTCT       TTGAAGATGA   TCAATGGGAC      CAAGTTCAGT
TACACGGAGA       GCTTGAAAAG        GTTGCCTGAC       TGGAGCATGC   TCTTTGCAGT      GATCACAACC
ATCTTTTCGG       CTGCTGAGAA        GCAGTGGACC      AATCTAGAGT    GGAAGCCGAA      GCCGAAGCTA
CCCCAGTTGC       TTGATGACCA        TTTTGGACTG       CATGGGTTAG   TTTTCAGGCG      CACCTTTGCC
ATCAGATCTT       ATGAGGTGGG        ACCTGACCGC       TCCACATCTA   TACTGGCTGT      TATGAATCAC
ATGCAGGAGG       CTACACTTAA        TCATGCGAAG      AGTGTGGGAA    TTCTAGGAGA      TGGATTCGGG
ACGACGCTAG       AGATGAGTAA        GAGAGATCTG      ATGTGGGTTG    TGAGACGCAC      GCATGTTGCT
GTGGAACGGT       ACCCTACTTG        GGGTGATACT       GTAGAAGTAG  AGTGCTGGAT       TGGTGCATCT
GGAAATAATG       GCATGCGACG        TGATTTCCTT       GTCCGGGACT   GCAAAACAGG      CGAAATTCTT
ACAAGATGTA       CCAGCCTTTC        GGTGCTGATG      AATACAAGGA    CAAGGAGGTT      GTCCACAATC
CCTGACGAAG       TTAGAGGGGA        GATAGGGCCT       GCATTCATTG  ATAATGTGGC       TGTCAAGGAC
GATGAAATTA       AGAAACTACA        GAAGCTCAAT       GACAGCACTG   CAGATTACAT      CCAAGGAGGT
TTGACTCCTC       GATGGAATGA        TTTGGATGTC      AATCAGCATG    TGAACAACCT      CAAATACGTT
GCCTGGGTTT       TTGAGACCGT        CCCAGACTCC      ATCTTTGAGA    GTCATCATAT      TTCCAGCTTC
ACTCTTGAAT       ACAGGAGAGA        GTGCACGAGG       GATAGCGTGC   TGCGGTCCCT      GACCACTGTC
TCTGGTGGCT       CGTCGGAGGC        TGGGTTAGTG       TGCGATCACT   TGCTCCAGCT      TGAAGGTGGG
TCTGAGGTAT       TGAGGGCAAG        AACAGAGTGG      AGGCCTAAGC    TTACCGATAG      TTTCAGAGGG
ATTAGTGTGA       TACCCGCAGA        ACCGAGGGTG       TAACTAATGA  AAGAAGCATC       TGTTGAAGTT
TCTCCCATGC       TGTTCGTGAG        GATACTTTTT      AGAAGCTGCA    GTTTGCATTG      CTTGTGCAGA
ATCATGGTCT       GTGGTTTTAG        ATGTATATAA      AAAATAGTCC    TGTAGTCATG      AAACTTAATA
TCAGAAAAAT       AACTCAATGG        GTCAAGGTTA       TCGAAGTAGT   CATTTAAGCT      TTGAAATATG
TTTTGTATTC       CTCGGCTTAA        TCTGTAAGCT       CTTTCTCTTG   CAATAAAGTT      CGCCTTTCAA
T
SEQ ID NO: 286
Cuphea calophylla subsp. Mesostemon,. seed-specific acyl-acyl carrier protein thioesterase, Genbank
ACCESSION ABB71579 VERSION                ABB71579.1
MVAAEASSAL       FSVRTPGTSP        KPGKFRNWPS       SLSVPFKSKS  NHNGGFQVKA       NASARPKANG
SAVSLKSGSL       DTQEDTSSSS        SPPRTFINQL       PDWSMLLSAI   TTVFVAAEKQ      WTMLDRKSKR
PDTLMDPFGV       DRVVQDGVVF        RQSFSIRSYE       IGADRTASIE   TLMNIFQETS       LNHCKSIGLL
NDGFGRTPEM       CKRDLIWVVT        KMHIEVNRYP       TWGDTIEVNT  WVSESGKTGM       GRDWLISDCH
TGEILIRATS       VCAMMNQTTR        RFSKFPYEVR       QELAPHFVDS  APVIEDYQKL       HKLDVKTGDS
ICNGLTPRVIN      DLDVNQHVNN        VKYIGWILES      VPKEVFETQE    LCGLTLEYRR      ECGRDSVLKS
VTAMDPSKEG       DRSLYQHLLR        LEDGTDIAKG       RTKWRPKNAG   TNGAISTGKT       SNGNSIS
SEQ ID NO: 287
Ulmus americana (American elm} acyl-ACP thioesterase, Genbank ACCESSION AAB71731
VERSION AAB71731.1
GSGALQVKAS       SQAPPKLNGS        NVGLVKSSQI      VKKGDDTTSP    PARTFINQLP       DWSMLLAAIT
TLFLAAEKQW       MMLDWKPKRP        DMLVDPFGLG       RFVQDGLVFR  NNFSIRSYEI       GADRTASIET
LMNHLQETAL       NHVKSVGLLE        DGLGSTREMS       LRNLIWVVTK  MQVAVDRYPT       WGDEVQVSSW
ATAIGKNGMR       REWIVTDFRT        GETLLRATSV      WVMMNKLTRR    ISKIPEEVWH      EIGPSFIDAP
PLPTVEDDGR       KLTRFDESSA        DFIRXGLTPR      WSDLDINQHV   NNVKYIGWLL       ESAPPEIHES
                                                    405

00        HEIASLTLEY RRECGRDSVL NSATKVSDSS QLGKSAVECN HLVRLQNGGE IVKGRTVWRP
,.......i KRPLYNDGAV VDVXAKTS
C)
('.:j
   ~
~
00
C)
                                           406

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
             1.      A food composition comprising at least 0.1% w/w recombinant algal
biomass and one or more other ingredient, wherein the recombinant algal biomass comprises
at least about 10% triglyceride oil by weight and is cultured under heterotrophic conditions.
            2.       The food composition of claim 1, wherein the triglyceride oil comprises a
fatty acid profile selected from the group consisting of at least about 1%C8:0, at least about
1% C10:0, at least about 1% C12:0, at least about 2% C14:0, at least about 30% C16:0, at
least about 5% C18:0, at least about 60% C18:1, less than about 7% C18:2, and at least about
35% saturated fatty acids.
            3.       The food composition of claim 1, wherein the fatty acid profile of algal
triglyceride oil is similar to the fatty acid profile of a naturally occurring oil.
            4.       The food composition of claim 3, wherein the naturally occurring oil is
selected from the group consisting of cocoa butter, coconut oil, palm oil, beef tallow, and
lard.
            5.       The food composition of claim 1, wherein the fatty acid profile of the algal
triglyceride oil is at least 60% C18:1.
            6.       The food composition of claim 5, wherein the fatty acid profile of the algal
triglyceride oil is at least 80% C18:1.
            7.       The food composition of claim 1, wherein the recombinant algal biomass
is predominantly intact cells.
            8.       The food composition of claim 1, wherein the recombinant algal biomass
is predominantly lysed cells.
            9.       The food composition of claim 8, wherein the recombinant algal biomass
is a homogenate.
             10.     The food composition of claim 8, wherein the recombinant algal biomass
is a powder.
                                                  407

             11.     The food composition of claim 8, wherein the recombinant algal biomass
is in the form of a powder, and wherein the recombinant algal biomass comprises at least
about 40% triglyceride oil by dry weight.
             12.     The food composition of claim 1, that is a salad dressing, egg product,
baked good, bread, bar, snack chip, pasta, sauce, soup, beverage, frozen dessert, butter or
spread.
             13.     The food composition of claim 10, wherein average particle size of the
powder is from about 0.2 to about 20 microns.
             14.     The food composition of claim 1, wherein the recombinant algal biomass
is a species of the genus Chlorella or Prototheca.
             15.     The food composition of claim 14, wherein the recombinant algal biomass
is selected from the group consisting of Chlorellaprotothecoides and Protothecamoriformis.
             16.     A method of making a food composition comprising combining
heterotrophically cultivated recombinant algal biomass comprising at least 10% triglyceride
oil by weight with at least one other ingredient.
             17.     The method of claim 16, wherein said triglyceride oil comprises a fatty
acid profile selected from the group consisting of at least about 1% C8:0, at least about 1%
C1O:0, at least about 1% C12:0, at least about 2% C14:0, at least about 30% C16:0, at least
about 5% C18:0, at least about 60% C18:1, less than about 7% C18:2, and at least about 35%
saturated fatty acids.
             18.     The method of claim 16 comprising the steps of:
                     a. determining the amount non-algal oil, non-algal fat or egg in a
conventional food product; and
                    b. replacing a portion of the non-algal oil, non-algal fat or egg or
supplementing the non-algal oil, non-algal fat or egg with a specified amount of recombinant
algal biomass.
             19.     The method of claim 18, wherein non-algal oil, non-algal fat or egg is not
added to the food composition.
                                               408

             20.     The method of claim 18, wherein the amount of recombinant algal biomass
is from about 0.25 times to about 4 times the mass or volume of the non-algal oil, non-algal
fat or egg in the conventional food product.
             21.     The method of claim 18, wherein the recombinant algal biomass is
predominantly lysed and is in the form of a powder or a homogenate.
             22.     The method of claim 16, wherein the recombinant algal biomass is a
species of the genus Chlorellaor Prototheca.
             23.     The method of claim 22, wherein the recombinant algal biomass is
selected from the group consisting of Chlorellaprotothecoides and Protothecamoriformis.
             24.     A food composition comprising at least about 0.1% w/w recombinant algal
biomass and one or more other ingredient, wherein the recombinant algal biomass is a color
mutant and comprises at least about 10% triglyceride oil by dry weight.
             25.     The food composition of claim 24, wherein the triglyceride oil comprises a
fatty acid profile selected from the group consisting of at least about 1%C8:0, at least about
1% C10:0, at least about 1%C12:0, at least about 2% C14:0, at least about 30% C16:0, at
least about 5% C18:0, at least about 60% C18:1, less than about 7% C18:2, and at least about
35% saturated fatty acids..
             26.     The food composition of claim 24, wherein the recombinant algal biomass
is a species of the genus Chlorella or Prototheca.
             27.     The food composition of claim 26, wherein the recombinant algal biomass
is selected from the group consisting of Chlorellaprotothecoides and Protothecamoriformis.
             28.     The food composition of claim 24, wherein the recombinant algal biomass
is cultured under GMP conditions.
             29.     A food composition comprising at least 0.1% w/w algal triglyceride oil
and one or more other ingredient, wherein the algal triglyceride oil is isolated from
recombinant algal biomass that is cultured under heterotrophic conditions.
             30.     The food composition of claim 29, wherein said triglyceride oil comprises
a fatty acid profile selected from the group consisting of at least about 1% C8:0, at least about
                                               409

1% C10:0, at least about 1%C12:0, at least about 2% C14:0, at least about 30% C16:0, at
least about 5% C18:0, at least about 60% C18:1, less than about 7% C18:2, and at least about
35% saturated fatty acids.
             31.     The food composition of claim 29, wherein the profile of the recombinant
algal triglyceride oil is similar to the triglyceride profile of a naturally occurring oil.
             32.     The food composition of claim 31, wherein the naturally occurring oil is
selected from the group consisting of cocoa butter, coconut oil, palm oil, beef tallow, and
lard.
             33.     The food composition of claim 29, wherein the profile of the algal
triglyceride oil is at least 60% C18:1.
             34.     The food composition of claim 33, wherein the profile of the algal
triglyceride oil is at least 80% C18:1.
             35.     The food composition of claim 29, wherein the recombinant algal biomass
is a species of the genus Chlorella or Prototheca.
             36.     The food composition of claim 35, wherein the recombinant algal biomass
is selected from the group consisting of Chlorellaprotothecoides and Protothecamoriformis.
             37.     The food composition of claim 29 that is a salad dressing, egg product,
baked good, bread, bar, snack chip, pasta, sauce, soup, beverage, frozen dessert, butter or
spread.
                                         CORBION BIOTECH, INC
 WATERMARK PATENT AND TRADE MARK ATTORNEYS
 P38350AU02
                                                  410

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
