                           ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
              Methods for treating a patient using therapeutic renal neuromodulation and
associated devices, systems, and methods are disclosed herein.         One aspect of the present
technology is directed to methods including selectively neuromodulating afferent or efferent
renal nerves.   One or more measurable physiological parameters corresponding to systemic
sympathetic overactivity or hyperactivity in the patient can thereby be reduced.        Selectively
neuromodulating afferent renal nerves can include inhibiting sympathetic neural activity in
nerves proximate a renal pelvis.    This can include, for example, neuromodulating via fluid
within the renal pelvis.     Selectively neuromodulating efferent renal nerves can include
inhibiting sympathetic neural activity in nerves proximate a portion of a renal artery or a renal
branch artery proximate a renal parenchyma. This can include, for example, neuromodulating
via a therapeutic element within the portion of the renal artery or the renal branch artery.

                1/10
                             -  114
   100
                          -116
       EVALUATION /
        FEEDBACK      134
        ALGORITHM
106
         CONTROL      132
        ALGORITHM              -102
                                             104
         -124        122
                            112         -118
            108
                     128
         110
                                    130
                FIG. 1

                    SELECTIVE MODULATION OF RENAL NERVES
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)
 [0001]     The present application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application
No. 61/608,022 filed 7 March 2012 and is the national application in Australia for International
Patent Application No PCT/US2013/029526 filed 7 March 2013 and a divisional application of
Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> filed 7 March 2013 entitled "SELECTIVE
MODULATION OF RENAL NERVES" which is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2013230883 filed 7 March 2013 entitled "SELECTIVE MODULATION OF
RENAL NERVES", the contents of each of which are herein incorporated.
TECHNICAL FIELD
 [0002]     The present technology relates generally to the modulation of renal nerves.       In
particular, several embodiments are directed to the selective modulation of renal nerves, e.g.,
the selective modulation of afferent renal nerves over efferent renal nerves and the selective
modulation of efferent renal nerves over afferent renal nerves.
BACKGROUND
 [0003]     The sympathetic nervous system (SNS) is a primarily involuntary bodily control
system typically associated with stress responses. Fibers of the SNS extend through tissue in
almost every organ system of the human body and can affect characteristics such as pupil
diameter, gut motility, and urinary output.       Such regulation can have adaptive utility in
maintaining homeostasis or in preparing the body for rapid response to environmental factors.
Chronic activation of the SNS, however, is a common maladaptive response that can drive the
progression of many disease states. Excessive activation of the renal SNS in particular has
been identified experimentally and in humans as a likely contributor to the complex
pathophysiology of hypertension, states of volume overload (such as heart failure), and
progressive renal disease. For example, radiotracer dilution has demonstrated increased renal
norepinephrine spillover rates in patients with essential hypertension.
 [0004]     Sympathetic   nerves   of the   kidneys    terminate   in   the blood vessels,   the
juxtaglomerular apparatus, and the renal tubules, among other structures. Stimulation of the
                                                -1-

renal sympathetic nerves can cause, for example, increased renin release, increased sodium
reabsorption, and reduced renal blood flow. These and other neural-regulated components of
renal function are considerably stimulated in disease states characterized by heightened
sympathetic tone. For example, reduced renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate as a
result of renal sympathetic efferent stimulation is likely a cornerstone of the loss of renal
function in cardio-renal syndrome, i.e., renal dysfunction as a progressive complication of
chronic heart failure.       Pharmacologic   strategies to thwart the consequences of renal
sympathetic stimulation include centrally-acting sympatholytic drugs, beta blockers (intended
to reduce renin release), angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and receptor blockers
(intended to block the action of angiotensin II and aldosterone activation consequent to renin
release), and diuretics (intended to counter the renal sympathetic mediated sodium and water
retention).   These pharmacologic strategies, however, have significant limitations including
limited efficacy, compliance issues, side effects, and others.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0005]      Many aspects of the present disclosure can be better understood with reference to the
following drawings. The components in the drawings are not necessarily to scale. Instead,
emphasis is placed on illustrating clearly the principles of the present disclosure.
[0006]      FIG. 1 is a partially-schematic view illustrating a renal neuromodulation system
configured in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0007]      FIG. 2 is a cross-sectional view illustrating a kidney and a medium within the renal
pelvic anatomy of the kidney in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0008]      FIG. 3 is a cross-sectional view of the kidney and medium of FIG. 2 and a treatment
device including a therapeutic element within the renal pelvic anatomy in accordance with an
embodiment of the present technology.
[0009]      FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional view of the kidney, medium, and treatment device of
FIG. 3 illustrating moving the therapeutic element to treatment locations within the renal pelvic
anatomy in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0010]      FIG. 5 is a cross-sectional view illustrating a kidney and a treatment device
including a therapeutic element within the renal artery of the kidney in accordance with an
embodiment of the present technology.
                                                 -2-

[0011]      FIG. 6 is a cross-sectional view of the kidney and treatment device of FIG. 5
illustrating moving the therapeutic element to treatment locations within the renal branch
arteries of the kidney in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0012]      FIG. 7 is a block diagram illustrating a method of selectively modulating afferent
renal nerves in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0013]      FIG. 8 is a block diagram illustrating a method of selectively modulating efferent
renal nerves in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0014]      FIG. 9 is a conceptual diagram illustrating the sympathetic nervous system and how
the brain communicates with the body via the sympathetic nervous system.
[0015]      FIG. 10 is an enlarged anatomical view illustrating nerves innervating a left kidney
to form a renal plexus surrounding a left renal artery.
[0016]      FIGS. 11 A and 11 B are anatomical and conceptual views, respectively, illustrating a
human body including a brain and kidneys and neural efferent and afferent communication
between the brain and kidneys.
[0017]      FIGS. 12A and 12B are anatomic views illustrating, respectively, an arterial
vasculature and a venous vasculature of a human.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0018]      The present technology is generally directed to the selective modulation of renal
nerves. Specific details of several embodiments of the present technology are described herein
with reference to FIGS. 1-12B. Although many of the embodiments are described herein with
respect to devices, systems, and methods for modulation of renal nerves using electrically
induced, thermally-induced, and chemically-induced approaches, other applications and other
treatment modalities in addition to those described herein are within the scope of the present
technology.    Additionally, other embodiments of the present technology can have different
configurations, components, or procedures than those described herein. For example, other
embodiments can include additional elements and features beyond those described herein or be
without several of the elements and features shown and described herein.
[0019]      For ease of reference, throughout this disclosure identical reference numbers are
used to identify similar or analogous components or features, but the use of the same reference
number does not imply that the parts should be construed to be identical.      Indeed, in many
                                                -3-

examples described herein, the identically-numbered parts are distinct in structure and/or
function.
[0020]      Generally, unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms "distal" and proximall"
within this disclosure reference a position relative to an operator or an operator's control device.
For example, "proximal" can refer to a position closer to an operator or an operator's control
device, and "distal" can refer to a position that is more distant from an operator or an operator's
control device. The headings provided herein are for convenience only.
I.      Renal Neuromodulation
[0021]      Renal neuromodulation is the partial or complete incapacitation or other effective
disruption of nerves innervating the kidneys, e.g., nerves terminating in or originating from a
kidney or in structures closely associated with a kidney. In particular, renal neuromodulation
can include inhibiting, reducing, and/or blocking neural communication along neural fibers
(e.g., efferent and/or afferent neural fibers) innervating the kidneys. Such incapacitation can
be long-term (e.g., permanent or for periods of months, years, or decades) or short-term (e.g.,
for periods of minutes, hours, days, or weeks). While long-term disruption of the renal nerves
can be desirable for alleviating symptoms and other sequelae associated with central
sympathetic overstimulation over longer periods of time, short-term modulation of the renal
nerves may also be desirable.        For example, some patients may benefit from short-term
modulation to address issues relating to an acute stage of fluid retention or heart failure.
[0022]      As described in greater detail below with reference to FIGS. 9-12B, sympathetic
nerves (e.g., efferent and/or afferent neural fibers) can contribute to a number of
cardiovascular-related diseases and conditions (e.g., hypertension, heart failure, left ventricular
hypertrophy, cardio-renal      syndrome,    etc.), metabolic-related    diseases   and conditions
(metabolic syndrome, insulin resistance, diabetes, etc.), endocrine-related diseases and
conditions (e.g., polycystic ovary syndrome, osteoporosis, erectile dysfunction, etc.) among
others.   For example, obesity and hypertension can be characterized by increased efferent
sympathetic drive to the kidneys and increased systemic sympathetic nerve firing modulated by
afferent signaling from renal sensory nerves.         The role of renal sympathetic nerves as
contributors to the pathogenesis of elevated blood pressure, particularly in obese patients, has
been demonstrated both experimentally and in humans. Apart from its role in cardiovascular
regulation, sympathetic nervous system activation also has metabolic effects resulting in
increased lipolysis and increased levels of fatty acids in plasma, increased hepatic
                                                  -4-

gluconeogenesis, and alterations in pancreatic insulin release. Chronic sympathetic activation
predisposes to the development of insulin resistance, which is often associated with obesity and
hypertension which can also be a key feature of many endocrine-related conditions (e.g.,
polycystic ovary syndrome, erectile dysfunction, etc.).
[0023]      Renal neuromodulation can contribute to the systemic reduction of sympathetic tone
or drive.   Accordingly, renal neuromodulation is expected to be useful in treating clinical
conditions associated with systemic sympathetic overactivity or hyperactivity, particularly
conditions    associated with central sympathetic       overstimulation.   For example,     renal
neuromodulation is expected to efficaciously treat hypertension, heart failure, acute myocardial
infarction, metabolic syndrome, insulin resistance, diabetes, left ventricular hypertrophy,
chronic and end stage renal disease, inappropriate fluid retention in heart failure, cardio-renal
syndrome, polycystic kidney disease, polycystic ovary syndrome, osteoporosis, erectile
dysfunction, and sudden death, among other conditions. Furthermore, renal neuromodulation
can potentially benefit a variety of organs and bodily structures innervated by sympathetic
nerves.
[0024]      Several properties of the renal vasculature may inform the design of treatment
devices and associated methods for achieving selective renal neuromodulation, for example,
via intravascular access, and impose specific design requirements for such devices. Specific
design requirements may include accessing the renal artery, a ureter, a renal pelvis, a major
renal calyx, a minor renal calyx, and/or another suitable structure; facilitating stable contact
between the energy delivery elements of such devices and a luminal surface or wall of the
suitable targeted structure, and/or effectively and selectively modulating the renal nerves with
the neuromodulatory apparatus.
II.      Selected Examples of Neuromodulation Modalities
[0025]     Various techniques can be used to partially or completely incapacitate neural
pathways, such as those innervating the kidney. Renal neuromodulation, in accordance with
embodiments of the present technology, can be electrically-induced, thermally-induced,
chemically-induced, or induced in another suitable manner or combination of manners at one
or more suitable treatment locations during a treatment procedure.            For example, the
purposeful application of radiofrequency (RF) energy (monopolar and/or bipolar), pulsed RF
energy, microwave energy, optical energy, ultrasound energy (e.g., delivered by catheter,
extracorporeal, high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU)), cryotherapeutic energy, direct heat
                                                -5-

energy, radiation (e.g., infrared, visible, gamma), chemicals (e.g., drugs or other agents), or
combinations thereof to tissue at a treatment location can induce one or more desired effects at
the treatment location, e.g., broadly across the treatment location or at localized regions of the
treatment location.   The treatment location can be proximate (e.g., at or near) a vessel or
chamber wall (e.g., a wall of a renal artery, a ureter, a renal pelvis, a major renal calyx, a minor
renal calyx, and/or another suitable structure), and the treated tissue can include tissue
proximate the treatment location.      For example, with regard to a renal artery, a treatment
procedure can include modulating nerves in the renal plexus, which lay intimately within or
adjacent to the adventitia of the renal artery.
[0026]      In some embodiments, the purposeful application of energy (e.g., electrical energy,
thermal energy, etc.) to tissue can induce one or more desired thermal heating and/or cooling
effects on localized region of the renal artery or other target tissue (e.g., a ureter, a renal pelvis,
a major renal calyx, a minor renal calyx, and/or another suitable structure).                    Some
embodiments of the present technology, for example, include cooling tissue at a target site in a
manner that modulates neural function.        Accordingly, renal neuromodulation can include a
cryotherapeutic treatment modality alone or in combination with another treatment modality.
For example, sufficiently cooling at least a portion of a sympathetic renal nerve can slow or
potentially block conduction of neural signals to produce a prolonged or permanent reduction
in renal sympathetic activity. This effect can occur as a result of cryotherapeutic tissue damage,
which can include, for example, direct cell injury (e.g., necrosis), vascular or luminal injury
(e.g., starving cells from nutrients by damaging supplying blood vessels), and/or sublethal
hypothermia with subsequent apoptosis. Exposure to cryotherapeutic cooling can cause acute
cell death (e.g., immediately after exposure) and/or delayed cell death, e.g., during tissue
thawing and subsequent hyperperfusion. Neuromodulation using a cryotherapeutic treatment
in accordance with embodiments of the present technology can include cooling a structure
proximate (e.g., adjacent) an inner surface of a vessel or chamber wall such that tissue is
effectively cooled to a depth where sympathetic renal nerves reside. For example, a cooling
assembly of a cryotherapeutic device can be cooled to the extent that it causes therapeutically
effective,   cryogenic renal neuromodulation.        In some embodiments, a cryotherapeutic
treatment modality can include cooling that is not configured to cause neuromodulation. For
example, the cooling can be at or above cryogenic temperatures and can be used to control
neuromodulation via another treatment modality, e.g., to reduce damage to non-targeted tissue
when targeted tissue adjacent to the non-targeted tissue is heated.
                                                 -6-

[0027]      Cryotherapeutic treatment can be beneficial in certain embodiments. For example,
rapidly cooling tissue can provide an analgesic effect such that cryotherapeutic treatment can
be less painful than other treatment modalities.        Neuromodulation using cryotherapeutic
treatment can therefore require less analgesic medication to maintain patient comfort during a
treatment    procedure   compared    to neuromodulation      using other treatment modalities.
Additionally, reducing pain can reduce patient movement and thereby increase operator
success and/or reduce procedural complications.       Cryogenic cooling also typically does not
cause significant collagen tightening, and therefore is not typically associated with vessel
stenosis. In some embodiments, cryotherapeutic treatment can include cooling at temperatures
that can cause therapeutic elements to adhere to moist tissue. This can be beneficial because it
can promote stable, consistent, and continued contact during treatment. The typical conditions
of treatment can make this an attractive feature because, for example, patients can move during
treatment, catheters associated with therapeutic elements can move, and/or respiration can
cause the kidneys to rise and fall and thereby move the renal arteries and other structures
associated with the kidneys.      In addition, blood flow is pulsatile and can cause structures
associated with the kidneys to pulse. Cryogenic adhesion also can facilitate intravascular or
intraluminal positioning, particularly     in relatively-small structures (e.g., relatively-short
arteries) in which stable intravascular or intraluminal positioning can be difficult to achieve.
[0028]      As an alternative to or in conjunction with cryotherapeutic cooling, other suitable
energy delivery techniques, such as electrode-based or transducer-based approaches, can be
used for therapeutically-effective and selective renal neuromodulation.        Electrode-based or
transducer-based treatment can include delivering electricity and/or another form of energy to
tissue at a treatment location to stimulate and/or heat the tissue in a manner that modulates
neural function. For example, sufficiently stimulating and/or heating at least a portion of a
sympathetic renal nerve can slow or potentially block conduction of neural signals to produce a
prolonged or permanent reduction in renal sympathetic activity. As noted previously, suitable
energy modalities can include, for example, RF energy (monopolar and/or bipolar), pulsed RF
energy, microwave energy, ultrasound energy (e.g., intravascularly delivered ultrasound,
extracorporeal ultrasound, HIFU), laser energy, optical energy, magnetic energy, direct heat,
radiation (e.g., infrared, visible, gamma), or other suitable energy modalities alone or in
combination. Where a system uses a monopolar configuration, a return electrode or ground
patch fixed externally on the subject can be used. Moreover, electrodes (or transducers or
other energy delivery elements) can be used alone or with other electrodes or transducers in a
                                                  -7-

multi-electrode or multi-transducer array. Examples of suitable multi-electrode devices are
described in U.S. Patent Application No. 13/281,360, filed October 25, 2011, and incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety.       Other suitable devices and technologies, such as
cryotherapeutic devices, are described in U.S. Patent Application No. 13/279,330, filed
October 23, 2011, and additional thermal devices are described in U.S. Patent Application No.
13/279,205, filed October 21, 2011, each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their
entireties.  Furthermore, the energy can be applied from within the body (e.g., within the
vasculature or other body lumens in a catheter-based approach) and/or from outside the body,
e.g., via an applicator positioned outside the body. In some embodiments, energy can be used
to reduce damage to non-targeted tissue when targeted tissue adjacent to the non-targeted
tissue is subjected to neuromodulating cooling.
[0029]      Ultrasound energy (e.g., HIFU energy) can be beneficial in certain embodiments.
Focused ultrasound is an example of a transducer-based treatment modality that can be
delivered from outside the body. In some embodiments, focused ultrasound treatment can be
performed in close association with imaging, e.g., magnetic resonance, computed tomography,
fluoroscopy, ultrasound (e.g., intravascular or intraluminal), optical coherence tomography, or
another suitable imaging modality.        For example, imaging can be used to identify an
anatomical position of a treatment location, e.g., as a set of coordinates relative to a reference
point. The coordinates can then entered into a focused ultrasound device configured to change
the power, angle, phase, or other suitable parameters to generate an ultrasound focal zone at the
location corresponding to the coordinates. In some embodiments, the focal zone can be small
enough to localize therapeutically-effective heating at the treatment location while partially or
fully avoiding potentially harmful disruption of nearby structures. To generate the focal zone,
the ultrasound device can be configured to pass ultrasound energy through a lens, and/or the
ultrasound energy can be generated by a curved transducer or by multiple transducers in a
phased array (curved or straight).
[0030]      Thermal effects of neuromodulation treatment can include both ablation and non
ablative thermal alteration or damage, (e.g., via sustained heating and/or resistive heating) to
partially or completely disrupt the ability of a nerve to transmit a signal.      Desired thermal
heating effects, for example, can include raising the temperature of target neural fibers to a
desired target temperature above a first threshold to achieve non-ablative alteration, or above a
second, higher threshold to achieve ablative thermal alteration.      In some embodiments, the
target temperature can be higher than about body temperature (e.g., about 37C) but less than
                                                -8-

about 45'C for non-ablative thermal alteration, and the target temperature can be higher than
about 45'C for ablative thermal alteration. More specifically, exposure to thermal energy in
excess of a body temperature of about 37'C, but below a temperature of about 45'C, may
induce thermal non-ablative alteration, for example, via moderate heating of target neural
fibers or of vascular or luminal structures that perfuse the target neural fibers. In cases where
vascular structures are affected, the target neural fibers may be denied perfusion resulting in
necrosis of the neural tissue. For example, this may induce non-ablative thermal alteration in
the fibers or structures. Exposure to heat above a temperature of about 45'C, or above (e.g.,
higher than about 60'C), may induce thermal alteration via substantial heating of the fibers or
structures. For example, such higher temperatures may thermally ablate the target neural fibers
or of vascular or luminal structures that perfuse the target fibers. In some patients, it can be
desirable to heat tissue to temperatures that are sufficient to thermally ablate the target neural
fibers or the vascular or luminal structures, but that are less than about 90'C, or are less than
about 85'C, or less than about 80'C, and/or less than about 75'C.         Other embodiments can
include heating tissue to a variety of other suitable temperatures.
[0031]      In some embodiments, renal neuromodulation           can include a chemical-based
treatment     modality   alone   or    in  combination     with   another    treatment  modality.
Neuromodulation using chemical-based treatment can include delivering one or more
chemicals (e.g., drugs or other agents) to tissue at a treatment location in a manner that
modulates neural function. The chemical, for example, can be selected to affect the treatment
location generally or to selectively affect some structures at the treatment location over other
structures.    In some embodiments, the chemical can be guanethidine, ethanol, phenol,
vincristine, a neurotoxin, or another suitable agent selected to alter, damage, or disrupt nerves.
In some embodiments, energy (e.g., light, ultrasound, or another suitable type of energy) can
be used to activate the chemical and/or to cause the chemical to become more bioavailable. A
variety of suitable techniques can be used to deliver chemicals to tissue at a treatment location.
For example, chemicals can be delivered via one or more devices, such as needles originating
outside the body or within the vasculature or other body lumens or delivery pumps (see, e.g.,
U.S. Patent No. 6,978,174, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety).   In an intravascular example, a catheter can be used to intravascularly position a
therapeutic element including a plurality of needles (e.g., micro-needles) that can be retracted
or otherwise blocked prior to deployment.            In other embodiments, a chemical can be
introduced into tissue at a treatment location via simple diffusion through a vessel wall,
                                                 -9-

electrophoresis, or another suitable mechanism. Similar techniques can be used to introduce
chemicals that are not configured to cause neuromodulation, but rather to facilitate
neuromodulation via another treatment modality. Examples of such chemicals include, but are
not limited to, anesthetic agents and contrast agents.
III.    Selective Renal Neuromodulation
[0032]      The kidneys are innervated with both afferent and efferent nerves. As a sensory
organ, the kidney comprises both chemoreceptors and baroreceptors that are connected with
the central nervous system via afferent nerve fibers, which can then regulate blood pressure
and central sympathetic outflow.      The efferent renal nerves carry signals from the central
nervous system to the kidneys. Afferent and efferent renal nerves can affect the progression of
disease states (e.g., hypertension) associated with systemic sympathetic overactivity or
hyperactivity in different ways. For example, activation of renal efferent nerves can increase
sodium reabsorption/retention, increase renin release (and subsequent renin-angiotensin
aldosterone system (RAAS) activation), and decrease renal blood flow, all of which can have
affects on central sympathetic drive such as increasing blood pressure. As discussed above,
renal sensory afferent nerves can stimulate the hypothalamus to increase systemic sympathetic
discharge (e.g., activate the centrally-mediated sympathetic nervous system).        This direct
systemic activation can have such consequences as increasing peripheral vascular resistance
and increasing sympathetic drive to the heart (which increases heart rate and cardiac
contractility), thereby increasing blood pressure.
[0033]      Adverse consequences of chronic sympathetic overactivity, such as hypertension,
left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), ventricular arrhythmias, sudden cardiac death, insulin
resistance, diabetes, metabolic syndrome among other endocrine disorders (e.g., polycystic
ovary syndrome, erectile dysfunction, etc.) are documented both experimentally and in humans.
While both efferent and afferent renal nerve fibers can contribute to central sympathetic drive
including, for example, overactivity or hyperactivity of the central sympathetic system, there is
evidence from studies of animal dorsal rhizotomy as well as human studies using direct
recordings of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) that sensory afferent signals
originating from diseased or damaged kidneys are contributors to initiating and sustaining
elevated central sympathetic outflow within this subject group. While the specific factors that
bind and activate the renal nerves (e.g., at the site of these diseased or damaged kidneys) are
not well understood, and without being bound by theory, it is thought that afferent renal nerve
                                                -10-

activation can be initiated by mechanoreceptor- and chemoreceptor-mediated secretion of
adenosine in response to, for example, ischemia-induced hypoxia.
[0034]      Positive outcomes have been reported from neuromodulation of both the afferent
and efferent renal nerves. As evidenced by positive, long-term outcomes in kidney transplant
patients, both afferent and efferent communication with the kidneys can be disabled in some
cases without serious complications. Much of the functionality of efferent renal nerves, for
example, can be redundant to other bodily systems. Accordingly, some approaches to renal
neuromodulation can be non-selective with respect to afferent and efferent renal nerves. For
example, modulation of a renal plexus via a renal artery (e.g., intravascular access) typically
affects both afferent and efferent renal nerves. There can be reasons, however, to modulate
afferent or efferent renal nerves selectively.
[0035]      Selective renal neuromodulation can include modulating afferent renal nerves
preferentially over efferent renal nerves or, in another embodiment, modulating efferent renal
nerves preferentially over afferent renal nerves. Complete selectivity may not be necessary,
but rather several embodiments include modulating one of the efferent or afferent renal nerves
to a greater extent than the other. Kidneys typically include a greater number of efferent
nerves than afferent nerves, so selective modulation of afferent renal nerves can still involve
modulating a greater number of efferent renal nerves than afferent renal nerves in several
embodiments. For example, a treatment procedure for selective modulation of afferent renal
nerves can modulate a greater percentage of the total afferent renal nerves of a kidney and a
lower percentage of the total efferent renal nerves of the kidney.          Similarly, selective
modulation of efferent renal nerves can modulate a greater percentage of the total efferent renal
nerves of a kidney and a lower percentage of the total afferent renal nerves of the kidney. In
some embodiments of treatment procedures in accordance with the present technology,
selective modulation of afferent renal nerves can include modulating greater than about 50%
(e.g., greater than about 60% or greater than about 70%) of the total afferent renal nerves of a
kidney and less than about 50% (e.g., less than about 40% or less than about 30%) of the total
efferent renal nerves of the kidney. Similarly, an embodiment of a treatment procedure for
selective modulation of efferent renal nerves can include modulating greater than about 50%
(e.g., greater than about 60% or greater than about 70%) of the total efferent renal nerves of a
kidney and less than about 50% (e.g., less than about 40% or less than about 30%) of the total
afferent renal nerves of the kidney.
                                                -11-

[0036]     In some cases, certain disease states can be associated with higher activity of
afferent renal nerves compared to the activity of efferent renal nerves, while other disease
states are associated with higher activity of efferent renal nerves than with the activity of
afferent renal nerves. For example, selective modulation of one of afferent and efferent renal
nerves can have a greater effect on some or all disease states associated with systemic
sympathetic overactivity or hyperactivity than selective modulation of the other. In some cases,
selective modulation of afferent renal nerves can have a greater effect on renal conditions (e.g.,
polycystic kidney disease) than selective modulation of efferent renal nerves. Furthermore,
with respect to certain disease states, selective renal neuromodulation can provide some of,
most of, all of, or more than the beneficial effect of non-selective renal neuromodulation. For
example, selective modulation of afferent renal nerves may be therapeutically effective for the
treatment of erectile dysfunction about equally or to a greater extent than non-selective renal
neuromodulation.
[0037]     Neuromodulation selective to one of the afferent or efferent renal nerves may, for
example, cause less disruption of normal renal-nerve activity than non-selective renal
neuromodulation. Preserving more functionality of one of the afferent or efferent renal nerves
compared to non-selective renal neuromodulation can, in some instances, have specific utility.
For example, preserving some or all renal afferent functionality may be useful to reduce the
possibility of late detection of kidney stones that would otherwise have been detectable earlier
due to a pain response carried by afferent renal nerves.      This can be particularly useful in
patients diagnosed as having cystinuria or as having an increased risk of developing kidney
stones relative to the general population, e.g., based on a familial history of kidney stones.
Preserving renal efferent functionality may be useful, for example, in some patients having an
inability or a reduced ability to compensate for missing renal efferent functionality with other
bodily systems.
[0038]     Selective renal neuromodulation in accordance with embodiments of the present
technology can include preferentially targeting one of the afferent or efferent renal nerves over
the other based on their predominant anatomical positions. With respect to a single kidney, the
renal plexus includes both afferent and efferent renal nerves toward the renal ostium where the
renal artery meets the aorta. The majority of afferent renal nerves of the renal plexus, however,
branch off renal-nerve bundles of the renal plexus before entering the renal parenchyma.
These afferent renal nerves are mostly located and/or terminate along the renal pelvic wall. In
contrast, most of the efferent renal nerves of the renal plexus continue into the renal
                                                -12-

parenchyma.      With this anatomy in mind, a relatively-high concentration of afferent renal
nerves can be found at the renal pelvis and a relatively-high concentration of efferent renal
nerves can be found at the renal plexus near the renal parenchyma.         Other locations having
relatively-high concentrations of afferent or efferent renal nerves are also possible.
IV       Selected Examples of Renal Neuromodulation Systems
[0039]      FIG. 1 is a partially-schematic diagram illustrating a renal neuromodulation system
100 that can include a first treatment device 102, a second treatment device 104, and an energy
source or console 106. The system 100 can further include a first cable 108 extending between
the console 106 and the first treatment device 102 and a second cable 110 extending between
the console 106 and the second treatment device 104. The first and second treatment devices
102, 104 can be configured for different treatment modalities or different aspects of the same
treatment modality. For example, the first treatment device 102 can be configured to perform
or facilitate renal neuromodulation from within the vasculature or other body lumens and the
second treatment device 104 can be configured to perform or facilitate renal neuromodulation
from outside the body.       In other embodiments, the system 100 can include only the first
treatment device 102 or only the second treatment device 104.               Furthermore, in some
embodiments, rather than being a handheld device, the second treatment device 104 can be a
stationary device mounted near a chair or bed on which a patient can be positioned.           For
example, the second treatment device 104 can be automatically positioned relative to the chair
or bed based on entered coordinates.
[0040]      As shown in FIG. 1, the first treatment device 102 can include a first handle 112, a
therapeutic element 114, and an elongated shaft 116 extending between the first handle 112
and the therapeutic element 114. The second treatment device 104 can include a second handle
118 and a head 120.       With regard to the first treatment device 102, the shaft 116 can be
configured to locate the therapeutic element 114 intravascularly or in other body lumens (e.g.,
via a renal artery or a ureter) at a treatment location in or near a vessel or other body lumen
associated with renal function, and the therapeutic element 114 can be configured to provide or
support therapeutically-effective, renal neuromodulation at the treatment location. In some
embodiments, the shaft 116 and the therapeutic element 114 can be 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 French or
another suitable size.    Furthermore, the shaft 116 and the therapeutic element 114 can be
partially or fully radiopaque and/or can include radiopaque markers corresponding to
measurements, e.g., every 5 cm.
                                                -13-

[0041]     Intravascular delivery can include percutaneously inserting a guide wire (not shown)
within the vasculature and moving the shaft 116 and the therapeutic element 114 along the
guide wire until the therapeutic element 114 reaches the treatment location. For example, the
shaft 116 and the therapeutic element 114 can include a guide-wire lumen (not shown)
configured to receive the guide wire in an over-the-wire or rapid-exchange configuration.
Other body lumens, such as ducts (e.g., a ureter) or internal chambers, can be treated by non
percutaneously passing the shaft 116 and therapeutic element 114 through externally accessible
passages of the body. In some embodiments, a distal end of the therapeutic element 114 can
terminate in an atraumatic rounded tip or cap (not shown). The first treatment device 102 can
also be a steerable or non-steerable catheter device (e.g., a guide catheter) configured for use
without a guide wire.     Use of a guide wire, for example, is not included in some ureteric
catheterization techniques.
[0042]     The therapeutic element 114 can have a single state or configuration, or it can be
convertible between a plurality of states or configurations.       For example, the therapeutic
element 114 can be configured to be delivered to a treatment location in a delivery state and to
provide or support therapeutically-effective, renal neuromodulation in a deployed state.        In
these and other embodiments, the therapeutic element 114 can have different sizes and/or
shapes in the delivery and deployed states. For example, the therapeutic element 114 can have
a low-profile configuration in the delivery state and an expanded configuration in the deployed
state. The therapeutic element 114 can be converted (e.g., placed or transformed) between the
delivery and deployed states via remote actuation, e.g., using an actuator 122 of the first handle
112. The actuator 122 can include a knob, a pin, a lever, a button, a dial, or another suitable
control component. In other embodiments, the therapeutic element 114 can be transformed
between the delivery and deployed states using other suitable mechanisms or techniques.
[0043]     The therapeutic element 114 can include an elongated member (not shown) that can
be configured to curve (e.g., arch) in the deployed state, e.g., in response to movement of the
actuator 122. For example, the elongated member can be at least partially helical/spiral in the
deployed state. In other embodiments, the therapeutic element 114 can include a balloon (not
shown) that can be configured to be at least partially inflated in the deployed state.         An
elongated member, for example, can be well suited for carrying one or more heating elements,
electrodes or transducers and for delivering direct heat, electrode-based or transducer-based
treatment. A balloon, for example, can be well suited for containing refrigerant (e.g., during or
shortly after liquid-to-gas phase change) and for delivering cryotherapeutic treatment.         A
                                               -14-

balloon can also be used in some embodiments for carrying suitable RF conducting electrodes.
In some embodiments, the therapeutic element 114 can be configured for intravascular,
transvascular, intraluminal, and/or transluminal delivery of chemicals.         For example, the
therapeutic element 114 can include one or more openings (not shown), and chemicals (e.g.,
drugs or other agents) can be deliverable through the openings.             For transvascular or
transluminal delivery, the therapeutic element 114 can include one or more needles (not shown)
(e.g., retractable needles) and the openings can be at end portions of the needles.
[0044]       The console 106 can be configured to control, monitor, supply, or otherwise support
operation of the first and second treatment devices 102, 104.         In some embodiments, the
console 106 can be separate from and in communication with the first and/or second treatment
devices 102, 104. In other embodiments, the console 106 can be contained within or be a
component of the first and/or second treatment devices 102, 104. In still further embodiments,
the console 106 can be configured for use with only one of the first and second treatment
devices 102, 104 and the system 100 can include another console configured for use with the
other of the first and second treatment devices 102, 104. In still other embodiments, the first
treatment device 102 and/or the second treatment device 104 can be self-contained and/or
otherwise configured for operation without connection to the console 106. As shown in FIG. 1,
the console 106 can include a primary housing 124 having a display 126. The system 100 can
include a first control device 128 along the first cable 108 and a second control device 130
along the second cable 110 configured, respectively, to initiate, terminate, and/or adjust
operation of the first treatment device 102 and/or the second treatment device 104 directly
and/or via the console 106. In other embodiments, the system 100 can include another suitable
control mechanism. For example, the first control device 128 can be incorporated into the first
handle 112 and/or the second control device 130 can be incorporated into the second handle
118.
[0045]       The console 106 can be configured to execute an automated control algorithm 132
and/or to receive control instructions from an operator. Furthermore, the console 106 can be
configured to provide feedback to an operator before, during, and/or after a treatment
procedure via the display 126 and/or an evaluation/feedback algorithm 134.              In some
embodiments, the console 106 can include a processing device (not shown) having processing
circuitry, e.g., a microprocessor. The processing device can be configured to execute stored
instructions relating to the control algorithm 132 and/or the evaluation/feedback algorithm 134.
Furthermore, the console 106 can be configured to communicate with the first and/or second
                                                -15-

treatment devices 102, 104, e.g., via the first and/or second cables 108, 110, respectively. For
example, the therapeutic element 114 of the first treatment device 102 can include a sensor (not
shown) (e.g., a temperature sensor, a pressure sensor, or a flow rate sensor) and a sensor lead
(not shown) (e.g., an electrical lead or a pressure lead) configured to carry a signal from the
sensor to the first handle 112. The first cable 108 can be configured to carry the signal from
the first handle 112 to the console 106.
[0046]      The console 106 can have different configurations depending on the treatment
modalities of the first and second treatment devices 102, 104. For example, when one or both
of the first and second treatment devices 102, 104 is configured for electrode-based or
transducer-based treatment, the console 106 can include an energy generator (not shown)
configured to generate RF energy, pulsed RF energy, microwave energy, optical energy,
ultrasound energy (e.g., intravascularly delivered ultrasound, extracorporeal ultrasound, HIFU),
magnetic energy, direct heat energy, or another suitable type of energy. In some embodiments,
the console 106 can include an RF generator operably coupled to one or more electrodes (not
shown) of the therapeutic element 114 of the first treatment device 102 and a focused
ultrasound generator operably coupled to one or more electrodes or transducers (not shown) of
the head 120 of the second treatment device 104.
[0047]      When the first treatment device 102 is configured for cryotherapeutic treatment, the
console 106 can include a refrigerant reservoir (not shown) and can be configured to supply the
first treatment device 102 with refrigerant, e.g., pressurized refrigerant in liquid or substantially
liquid phase. Similarly, when the first treatment device 102 is configured for chemical-based
treatment, the console 106 can include a chemical reservoir (not shown) and can be configured
to supply the first treatment device 102 with the chemical.        In some embodiments, the first
treatment device 102 can include an adapter (not shown) (e.g., a luer lock) configured to be
operably coupled to a syringe (not shown). The adapter can be fluidly connected to a lumen
(not shown) of the treatment device 102, and the syringe can be used, for example, to manually
deliver one or more chemicals to the treatment location, to withdraw material from the
treatment location, to inflate a balloon (not shown) of the therapeutic element 114, to deflate a
balloon of the therapeutic element 114, or for another suitable purpose.
[0048]      In certain embodiments, a neuromodulation device for use in the methods disclosed
herein may combine two or more energy modalities.           For example, the device may include
both a hyperthermic source of ablative energy and a hypothermic source, making it capable of,
for example, performing both RF neuromodulation and cryo-neuromodulation. The distal end
                                                -16-

of the treatment device may be straight (for example, a focal catheter), expandable (for
example, an expanding mesh or cryoballoon), or have any other configuration (e.g., a helical
coil). Additionally or alternatively, the treatment device may be configured to carry out one or
more non-ablative neuromodulatory techniques.        For example, the device may comprise a
means for diffusing a drug or pharmaceutical compound at the target treatment area (e.g., a
distal spray nozzle).
V.      Selected Examples of Treatment Procedures for Selective Modulation of Afferent
        Renal Nerves
 [0049]    Treatment procedures      for selective modulation of afferent       renal nerves   in
accordance with embodiments of the present technology can include applying a treatment
modality at one or more treatment locations proximate a structure having a relatively-high
concentration of afferent renal nerves and/or closer to afferent renal nerves than efferent renal
nerves.   In some embodiments, at least one treatment location can be proximate the renal
pelvic anatomy of a kidney, which can include, for example, the renal pelvis, the ureteropelvic
junction, the major calyces, the minor calyces, and/or other suitable structures. In general, the
renal pelvic anatomy can have a larger and more irregular wall structure than the renal artery.
Furthermore, nerve tissue can be shallower around the renal pelvic anatomy than around the
renal artery. For example, a majority of afferent renal nerves at the renal pelvic anatomy can
be within about 2 mm (e.g., about 1 mm) of the inside surface of the epithelium. In contrast, a
majority of nerves in the renal plexus can be a greater distance from an inner surface of the
renal artery.  A therapeutic element of a treatment device can be positioned at a treatment
location within the renal pelvic anatomy, for example, via a catheterization path including the
urethra, the bladder, and the ureter, but other suitable catheterization paths may be used.
Catheterization can be guided, for example, using imaging, e.g., magnetic resonance, computed
tomography, fluoroscopy, ultrasound (e.g., intravascular or intraluminal), optical coherence
tomography, or another suitable imaging modality.
 [0050]    In some embodiments, a medium, such as a fluid, a particulate, a solution, and/or a
colloid, within the renal pelvic anatomy can be activated to cause neuromodulation of nearby
renal nerves.    For example, a naturally-occurring medium (e.g., urine) or an artificially
introduced medium (e.g., saline) within the renal pelvic anatomy can be heated, cooled,
energized, or otherwise activated in a manner sufficient to cause neuromodulation of renal
nerves (e.g., afferent renal nerves or a combination of afferent and efferent renal nerves)
                                                -17-

around the renal pelvic anatomy. FIG. 2 is a cross-sectional view illustrating a kidney 200
including a renal pelvis 202 and a medium 204 within the renal pelvis 202.            As shown in
FIG. 2, the kidney 200 can further include a renal artery 206, a renal vein 208, and a ureter 210
extending from the renal pelvis 202. The renal artery 206 can branch into a plurality of renal
branch arteries 212 of the kidney 200.      The renal pelvis 202 can branch into a plurality of
calyces 214 (one labeled) of the kidney 200. The medium 204 can enhance the distribution of
a neuromodulating effect across the relatively large and irregular surface of the renal pelvic
anatomy. The medium 204 can be introduced, for example, through the ureter 210, e.g., via a
needle (not shown) or a catheter (not shown). In some embodiments, the ureter 210 can be at
least partially blocked (e.g., clamped) to at least partially maintain the renal pelvic anatomy in
a full state.  The relatively-shallow positioning of the afferent renal nerves around the renal
pelvis 202 can facilitate selective neuromodulation of the afferent rental nerves relative to the
efferent renal nerves. For example, the medium 204 can be activated in a manner that causes
therapeutically-effective renal neuromodulation in a zone within about 3 mm (e.g., within
about 2 mm or within about 1.5 mm) of an inner surface of the renal pelvic wall. In some
cases, the epithelium of the renal pelvic anatomy can recover from such a treatment, and all or
most of the modulated nerves can remain non-functional.
[0051]      One or more of the treatment modalities discussed above can be used to activate the
medium 204 from an external device outside of the body. For example, the medium 204 can
be heated using ultrasound (e.g., HIFU) directed into the renal pelvis 202 from an external
ultrasound transducer device (not shown) located outside the body. When the ultrasound is
applied, the location/orientation of the renal pelvis 202 relative to the external ultrasound
transducer device and/or the relatively large size of the renal pelvis 202 may reduce the need
for exact placement of a focal zone. In some embodiments, for example, the medium 204 can
absorb and distribute heat relatively evenly over the renal pelvic wall even if the focal zone is
not centrally positioned in the renal pelvis 202. Furthermore, because the renal pelvis 202 is
relatively large, the likelihood of locating the focal zone at an undesirable location may be
relatively low.    In some embodiments, the medium 204 can be artificially introduced and
selected to enhance neuromodulation.          For example, the medium 204 can include a
microbubble contrast agent or another material configured to increase the heating effect of
ultrasound. Suitable microbubble contrast agents can have shells (e.g., made from albumin,
lipid, or galactose) and gas cores (e.g., including air).        In other embodiments, focused
                                                -18-

ultrasound can be used to neuromodulate portions of the renal pelvic anatomy without the
medium 204.
[0052]      In other embodiments, the medium 204 can be activated using an electrode or
another therapeutic element located within the renal pelvis 202. FIG. 3 is a cross-sectional
view illustrating a treatment device including a shaft 300 extending through the ureter 210 and
a therapeutic element 302 at a distal portion of the shaft 300 within the renal pelvis 202. In
some embodiments, the shaft 300 and the therapeutic element 302 can be portions of a
treatment device at least partially corresponding to the first treatment device 102 shown in
FIG. 1. With reference to FIG. 3, the therapeutic element 302 can be configured to activate the
medium 204. For example, the therapeutic element 302 can include an electrode (not shown)
(e.g., a radiofrequency electrode or a microwave electrode), a cryotherapeutic cooling
assembly (not shown), a direct heating element (not shown), or another suitable activating
component. In some embodiments, the therapeutic element 302 can include an opening (not
shown) and can be configured to chemically activate the medium 204 by introducing a
chemical into the medium 204 via the opening.             In these and other embodiments, the
therapeutic element 302 can further include an electrode (not shown) configured to deliver at
least a portion of the chemical into the renal pelvic wall by electrophoresis.
[0053]      In some embodiments, therapeutic neuromodulation can be via the therapeutic
element 302 and not via the medium 204. FIG. 4, for example, is a cross-sectional view
illustrating moving the therapeutic element 302 between a first treatment location 400 and a
second treatment location 402 during a treatment procedure. The shaft 300, for example, can
be steerable (e.g., via one or more pull wires, a steerable guide or sheath catheter, etc.) and can
be configured to sequentially move the therapeutic element 302 into the first and second
treatment locations 400, 402. At the first treatment location 400, the therapeutic element 302
can contact or be in close proximity to a portion of the renal pelvic wall near the renal artery
206. At the second treatment location 402, the therapeutic element 302 can contact or be in
close proximity to a wall of one of the calyces 214. A variety of other suitable treatment
locations are also possible throughout the renal pelvic anatomy.        Furthermore, a treatment
procedure can include treatment at any suitable number of treatment locations, e.g., a single
treatment location, two treatment locations (as shown in FIG. 4), or more than two treatment
locations.    The treatment locations can correspond to portions of the renal pelvic anatomy
proximate relatively-high concentrations of afferent renal nerves. At each treatment location,
the therapeutic element 302 can be activated to cause modulation of nerves proximate the
                                                -19-

treatment location. Activating the therapeutic element 302 can include, for example, heating,
cooling, electrifying, or applying another suitable treatment modality at the treatment location.
Activating the therapeutic element 302 can further include applying various energy modalities
at varying power levels, intensities and for various durations for achieving modulation of
nerves proximate the treatment location.       In some embodiments, power levels, intensities
and/or treatment duration can be determined and employed using various algorithms for
ensuring modulation of nerves at select distances (e.g., depths) away from the treatment
location. Furthermore, as noted previously, in some embodiments, the therapeutic element 302
can be configured to introduce (e.g., inject) a chemical (e.g., a drug) into tissue at the treatment
location.   Such chemicals or agents can be applied at various concentrations depending on
treatment location and the relative depth of the target nerves.
[0054]      The therapeutic element 302 can be configured to accommodate the anatomy of the
renal pelvis 202 and/or another suitable structure. For example, the therapeutic element 302
can include a balloon (not shown) configured to inflate to a shape generally corresponding to
the shape of the renal pelvis 202. The balloon can be configured to deliver cryotherapeutic
cooling or another suitable treatment modality over all or a portion the renal pelvis 202. In
these and other embodiments, the therapeutic element 302 can be configured to apply a
suitable treatment modality at a relatively shallow depth to avoid disrupting structures beyond
the targeted renal nerves. For example, the therapeutic element 302 can include a plurality of
electrodes (not shown) having a bipolar configuration, which can facilitate shallower treatment
than other configurations.    In another example, the therapeutic element 302 can include a
plurality of heating elements (not shown) for directly applying heat at the treatment location.
In some embodiments, this arrangement is expected to form shallower lesions in the wall of the
renal pelvis 202 or a wall of one of the calyces 214 as compared with certain other energy
modalities.    Moreover, in some embodiments, therapy using direct heat application may
require less power to operate than several other energy modalities.            During a treatment
procedure in which the therapeutic element 302 is configured to cause neuromodulation
directly, the medium 204 can shape the renal pelvis 202 (e.g., in an open and/or slightly
distended state) to facilitate accurate placement of the therapeutic element 302.           In other
embodiments, the therapeutic element 302 can be used to neuromodulate portions of the renal
pelvis 202 without the medium 204.
[0055]      The medium 204 can have other functions in addition to or instead of being a vehicle
for neuromodulation and shaping the renal pelvis 202. For example, since afferent renal nerves
                                                -20-

can carry a visceral pain signal, it can be useful to accompany neuromodulation of afferent
renal nerves with local anesthesia.     In some embodiments, a local anesthetic agent (e.g.,
procaine) can be introduced into the renal pelvis 202, e.g., via an opening (not shown) in the
therapeutic element 302.      Since nerve endings around the renal pelvis 202 are relatively
shallow, the anesthetic agent can be highly localized and still effective. Furthermore, in some
embodiments the medium 204 can be configured to facilitate imaging (e.g., magnetic
resonance, computed tomography, fluoroscopy, ultrasound (e.g., intravascular or intraluminal),
optical coherence tomography, or another suitable imaging modality) during a treatment
procedure.    For example, the medium 204 can include a contrast material, e.g., a contrast
material configured to preferentially absorb light at wavelengths between about 500 nm and
about 1100 nm.        Suitable contrast materials include, for example, indocyanine green,
methylene blue, toluidine blue, aminolevulinic acid, chlorin compounds, phthalocyanines,
porphyrins, purpurins, and texaphyrins, among others. Imaging the renal pelvic anatomy can
be used to identify portions of the renal pelvic anatomy suitable for treatment and/or to guide
execution of a treatment within the renal pelvic anatomy. Guiding execution can include, for
example, guiding placement of the therapeutic element 302 (e.g., by guiding steering
operations of the shaft 300) and/or guiding placement of a focal zone of a focused ultrasound
device.
[0056]      In some embodiments, the medium 204 can help to protect the inner epithelium of
the renal pelvic anatomy. For example, the medium 204 can include an epithelial-protective
agent (e.g., polyethylene glycol) configured to preserve tissue integrity or otherwise reduce
damage to epithelial cells while nerves proximate the epithelial cells are modulated. Similarly,
the medium 204 can be cooled to counteract heat used to modulate the nerves proximate the
epithelial cells.  For example, the therapeutic element 302 can be configured to cool the
medium 204.       When the medium 204 protects the epithelial cells (e.g., via an epithelial
protective agent and/or cooling), the proximate nerves can be modulated, for example, with
focused ultrasound.     The focal zone of the focused ultrasound can include a maximum
intensity portion closer to the nerves being modulated than to the epithelial cells being
protected.    Placement of the focal zone and the protective effect of the medium 204 can
function cooperatively to cause a relatively-steep temperature gradient between the epithelial
cells and the nerves.
[0057]      Other treatment procedures for selective modulation of afferent renal nerves in
accordance with embodiments of the present technology are also possible.              Treatment
                                               -21-

procedures for selective modulation of afferent renal nerves in accordance with embodiments
of the present technology are expected to improve one or more measurable physiological
parameters in patients corresponding to systemic sympathetic overactivity or hyperactivity.
For example, the treatment procedures are expected to reduce MSNA (e.g., at least about 10%)
and/or whole body norepinephrine spillover (e.g., at least about 20%) in patients. These and
other clinical effects are expected to be detectable immediately after a treatment procedure or
after a delay, e.g., of 1, 2, or 3 months.
VI.      Selected Examples of Treatment Procedures for Selective Modulation of Efferent Renal
        Nerves
[0058]      Treatment procedures for selective modulation of efferent renal nerves in
accordance with embodiments of the present technology can include applying a treatment
modality at one or more treatment locations proximate a structure having a relatively-high
concentration of efferent renal nerves and/or closer to efferent renal nerves than afferent renal
nerves. In some embodiments, the treatment locations can be proximate portions of the renal
artery 206 and/or the renal branch arteries 212 near the renal parenchyma. Portions of the
renal plexus (not shown) proximate the treatment locations can have lower concentrations of
afferent renal nerves than other portions of renal plexus. For example, the portions of the renal
plexus proximate the treatment locations can have less than about 50% (e.g., less than about
25%) of a concentration of afferent renal nerves at a portion of the renal plexus proximate an
ostium (not shown) of the renal artery 206. A therapeutic element of a treatment device can be
positioned at a treatment location within the renal artery, for example, via a catheterization
path including the femoral artery and the aorta or another suitable catheterization path, e.g., a
radial or brachial catheterization path. Catheterization can be guided, for example, using
imaging, e.g., magnetic resonance, computed tomography, fluoroscopy, ultrasound (e.g.,
intravascular or intraluminal), optical coherence tomography, or another suitable imaging
modality.
[0059]      FIG. 5 is a cross-sectional view showing neuromodulation at a treatment location
within the renal artery 206.       FIG. 6 is a cross-sectional view showing neuromodulation at
treatment locations within the renal branch arteries 212. Referring to FIGS. 5 and 6 together, a
treatment device including a shaft 500 and a therapeutic element 502 can be extended toward
the renal artery 206 to locate the therapeutic element 502 at a treatment location within the
renal artery 206 and/or the renal branch arteries 212. The therapeutic element 502 can be
                                                 -22-

configured for neuromodulation at the treatment location via a suitable treatment modality, e.g.,
cryotherapeutic, direct heat, electrode-based, transducer-based, or chemical-based.         In some
embodiments, the shaft 500 and the therapeutic element 502 can be portions of a treatment
device at least partially corresponding to the first treatment device 102 shown in FIG. 1. The
shaft 500 can be steerable (e.g., via one or more pull wires, a steerable guide or sheath catheter,
etc.) and can be configured to move the therapeutic element 502 between treatment locations.
At each treatment location, the therapeutic element 502 can be activated to cause modulation
of nerves proximate the treatment location. Activating the therapeutic element 502 can include,
for example, heating, cooling, stimulating, or applying another suitable treatment modality at
the treatment location. Activating the therapeutic element 502 can further include applying
various energy modalities at varying power levels, intensities and for various durations for
achieving modulation of nerves proximate the treatment location.           In some embodiments,
power levels, intensities and treatment duration can be determined and employed using various
algorithms for ensuring modulation of nerves at select distances (e.g., depths) away from the
treatment location. Additionally, in some embodiments, the therapeutic element 502 can be
configured to introduce (e.g., inject) a chemical (e.g., a drug or other agent) into target tissue at
the treatment location. Such chemicals or agents can be applied at various concentrations
depending on treatment location and the relative depth of the target nerves.
[0060]      In some embodiments, the therapeutic element 502 can be configured to radially
expand into a deployed state 504 at the treatment location. In the deployed state 504, the
therapeutic element 502 can be configured to contact an inner wall of the renal artery 206 and
to form a fully-circumferential lesion without the need for repositioning. For example, the
therapeutic element 502 can be configured to form a lesion or series of lesions (e.g., a
helical/spiral lesion or a discontinuous lesion) that is fully-circumferential overall, but
generally non-circumferential at longitudinal segments of the treatment location. This can
facilitate precise and efficient treatment with a low possibility of vessel stenosis. In other
embodiments, the therapeutic element 502 can be configured to form a partially
circumferential lesion or a fully-circumferential lesion at a single longitudinal segment of the
treatment location.     During treatment, the therapeutic element 502 can be configured to
partially or fully occlude the renal artery 206. Partial occlusion can be useful, for example, to
reduce renal ischemia, and full occlusion can be useful, for example, to reduce interference
(e.g., warming or cooling) caused by blood flow through the treatment location. In some
                                                -23-

embodiments, the therapeutic element 502 can be configured to cause therapeutically-effective
neuromodulation (e.g., using ultrasound energy) without contacting a vessel wall.
[0061]     The therapeutic element 502 can be configured to accommodate the anatomy of the
renal artery 206 and/or the renal branch arteries 212, and/or another suitable structure. For
example, the therapeutic element 502 can include a balloon (not shown) configured to inflate
to a size generally corresponding to the internal size of the renal artery 206 and/or the renal
branch arteries 212, and/or another suitable structure. In some embodiments, the therapeutic
element 502 can be an implantable device and a treatment procedure can include locating the
therapeutic element 502 at the treatment location using the shaft 500 fixing the therapeutic
element 502 at the treatment location, separating the therapeutic element 502 from the shaft
500, and withdrawing the shaft 500. Other treatment procedures for selective modulation of
efferent renal nerves in accordance with embodiments of the present technology are also
possible.
[0062]     Treatment procedures     for selective modulation of efferent         renal nerves in
accordance with embodiments of the present technology are expected to improve one or more
measurable physiological parameters in patients corresponding to systemic sympathetic
overactivity or hyperactivity.  For example, the treatment procedures are expected to reduce
MSNA (e.g., at least about 10%) and/or whole body norepinephrine spillover (e.g., at least
about 20%) in patients.      These and other clinical effects are expected to be detectable
immediately after a treatment procedure or after a delay, e.g., of 1, 2, or 3 months.
VII.    Methods for Selective Renal Neuromodulation
[0063]     Disclosed herein are several embodiments of methods directed to selective
neuromodulation of afferent and/or efferent renal nerves. The methods disclosed herein may
represent various advantages over a number of conventional approaches and techniques in that
they allow for the potential targeting of elevated sympathetic drive, which may be a key
mediator of multiple manifestations of cardiovascular, metabolic and endocrine-related
conditions. Also, the disclosed methods provide for localized treatment and limited duration
treatment regimens (e.g., one-time treatment), thereby reducing patient long-term treatment
compliance issues.
[0064]     In certain embodiments, the methods provided herein comprise performing selective
renal neuromodulation, thereby decreasing sympathetic renal nerve activity and decreasing
central sympathetic drive. Selective renal neuromodulation may be repeated one or more times
                                              -24-

at various intervals until a desired sympathetic nerve activity level or another therapeutic
benchmark is reached.      In one embodiment, for example, a decrease in sympathetic nerve
activity may be observed via a marker of sympathetic nerve activity in patients, such as
decreased levels of plasma norepinephrine (noradrenaline).        Other measures or markers of
sympathetic nerve activity can include MSNA, norepinephrine spillover, and/or heart rate
variability. In another embodiment, other measurable physiological parameters or markers,
such as improved blood pressure control, improved blood glucose regulation, etc., can be used
to assess efficacy of the thermal modulation treatment for patients.
[0065]      In certain   embodiments    of the      methods   provided  herein,  selective  renal
neuromodulation is expected to result in a change in sympathetic nerve activity over a specific
timeframe. For example, in certain of these embodiments, sympathetic nerve activity levels
are decreased over an extended timeframe, e.g., within 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, 6 months,
9 months or 12 months post-neuromodulation.
[0066]      In several embodiments, the methods disclosed herein may comprise an additional
step of measuring sympathetic nerve activity levels, and in certain of these embodiments, the
methods can further comprise comparing the activity level to a baseline activity level. Such
comparisons can be used to monitor therapeutic efficacy and to determine when and if to
repeat the neuromodulation procedure. In certain embodiments, a baseline sympathetic nerve
activity level is derived from the subject undergoing treatment.          For example, baseline
sympathetic nerve activity level may be measured in the subject at one or more timepoints
prior to treatment.    A baseline sympathetic nerve activity value may represent sympathetic
nerve activity at a specific timepoint before neuromodulation, or it may represent an average
activity level at two or more timepoints prior to neuromodulation. In certain embodiments, the
baseline value is based on sympathetic nerve activity immediately prior to treatment (e.g., after
the subject has already been catheterized). Alternatively, a baseline value may be derived from
a standard value for sympathetic nerve activity observed across the population as a whole or
across a particular subpopulation. In certain embodiments, post-neuromodulation sympathetic
nerve activity levels are measured in extended timeframes post-neuromodulation, e.g.,
3 months, 6 months or 12 months post-neuromodulation.
[0067]      In certain embodiments of the methods provided herein, the methods are designed to
decrease sympathetic nerve activity to a target level.      In these embodiments, the methods
include a step of measuring sympathetic nerve activity levels post-neuromodulation (e.g.,
6 months post-treatment, 12 months post-treatment, etc.) and comparing the resultant activity
                                               -25-

level to a baseline activity level as discussed above. In certain of these embodiments, the
treatment is repeated until the target sympathetic nerve activity level is reached.        In other
embodiments, the methods are simply designed to decrease sympathetic nerve activity below a
baseline level without requiring a particular target activity level.
[0068]      In addition to affecting the sympathetic nerve activity or central sympathetic drive in
a patient, selective renal neuromodulation (e.g., selective afferent or selective efferent renal
neuromodulation) may efficaciously treat other measurable physiological parameter(s) or
sequela corresponding to overactivity or hyperactivity of central sympathetic drive.             For
example, in some embodiments, selective renal neuromodulation may address metabolic issues
(e.g., obesity, metabolic syndrome, insulin resistance), cardiovascular risk (e.g., high
cholesterol, hypertension, LVH) and endocrine issues (e.g., sequela associated with polycystic
ovary syndrome, erectile dysfunction). These and other results can occur at various times, e.g.,
directly following selective renal neuromodulation or within about 1 month, 3 months,
6 months, a year, or a longer period following selective renal neuromodulation.
[0069]      As discussed previously, the progression of many cardiovascular, metabolic and/or
endocrine disease states may be related to sympathetic overactivity and, correspondingly, the
degree of sympathoexcitation in a patient may be related to the severity of the clinical
presentation of the respective conditions.        The kidneys can be both a cause (directly via
afferent nerve fibers and indirectly via efferent nerve fibers) and a target (via efferent
sympathetic nerves) of elevated central sympathetic drive. In some embodiments, selective
renal neuromodulation can be used to reduce central sympathetic drive in a patient in a manner
that treats the patient for the disease state (e.g., cardiovascular, metabolic, endocrine, etc.). In
some embodiments, for example, MSNA can be reduced by at least about 5%, about 10%, or
about 20% in the patient within about three months after at least partially inhibiting
sympathetic neural activity in afferent nerves proximate a renal pelvis, a ureteropelvic junction,
a major calyx, a minor calyx, and/or other suitable structure. Similarly, in some instances
whole body norepinephrine spillover to plasma can be reduced at least about 20% in the patient
within about three months after at least partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity in
afferent nerves proximate a renal pelvis, a ureteropelvic junction, a major calyx, a minor calyx,
and/or other suitable structure. In another embodiment, MSNA can be reduced by at least
about   5 %, about  10%, or about 20% in the patient within about three months after at least
partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity in efferent nerves proximate a renal artery
and/or a renal branch artery, and/or another suitable structure.           Similarly, whole body
                                                  -26-

norepinephrine spillover to plasma can be reduced at least about 20% in the patient within
about three months after at least partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity in efferent
nerves proximate a renal artery and/or a renal branch artery, and/or another suitable structure.
Additionally, measured renal norepinephrine content (e.g., assessed via biopsy, assessed in
real-time via intravascular blood collection techniques, etc.) can be reduced (e.g., at least about
5%, 10%, or by at least 20%) in the patient within about three months after at least partially
inhibiting sympathetic neural activity in efferent nerves proximate a renal artery innervating
the kidney.
[0070]      In one prophetic example, a patient diagnosed or suspected as having sympathetic
overactivity can be subjected to a baseline assessment indicating a first set of measurable
parameters corresponding to sympathetic overactivity.         Such parameters can include, for
example, blood pressure, cholesterol levels, blood glucose levels, fasting blood insulin levels,
measures of insulin sensitivity, and aldosterone levels.     Following baseline assessment, the
patient can be subjected to a selective renal neuromodulation procedure (e.g., selective afferent
neuromodulation, selective efferent neuromodulation).       Such a procedure can, for example,
include any of the treatment modalities described herein or another treatment modality in
accordance with the present technology.        The treatment can be performed on afferent or
efferent nerves innervating one or both kidneys of the patient. Following the treatment (e.g., 1,
3, 6, or 12 months following the treatment), the patient can be subjected to a follow-up
assessment. The follow-up assessment can indicate a measurable improvement in one or more
physiological parameters corresponding to the sympathetic overactivity.
[0071]      The methods described herein address the sympathetic excess that is thought to be
an underlying cause or a central mechanism through which diseased or damaged kidneys
manifests their multiple deleterious effects on patients. In contrast, known therapies currently
prescribed for this patient population typically address only specific manifestations of the
various sequelae.     Additionally, these known therapies can have significant limitations
including limited efficacy, undesirable side effects and can be subject to adverse or undesirable
drug interactions when used in combination. Additionally, conventional therapies require the
patient to remain compliant with the treatment regimen over time. In contrast, selective renal
neuromodulation can be a one-time treatment that would be expected to have durable benefits
to inhibit long-term disease progression and thereby achieve a favorable patient outcome.
[0072]      In some embodiments, patients diagnosed with sympathetic overactivity and/or
diseased or damaged kidneys can be treated with selective renal neuromodulation alone.
                                                -27-

However, in other embodiments, these patients can be treated with combinations of therapies
for treating both primary causative modes as well as sequelae of the cardiovascular, metabolic
and/or endocrine related conditions. For example, combinations of therapies can be tailored
based on specific manifestations of the disease in a particular patient. In a specific example,
patients having elevated or overactive sympathetic drive and presenting hypertension can be
treated with both anti-hypertensive therapy (e.g., drugs) and selective renal neuromodulation.
In another example, selective renal neuromodulation can be combined with cholesterol
lowering agents (e.g., statins), hormonal therapy (e.g., estrogen-progestin contraceptive), and
phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors (e.g., sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil, avanafil, etc.)
as well as weight loss and lifestyle change recommendations/programs.
[0073]      Treatment of conditions relating to or resulting from sympathetic overactivity may
refer to preventing the condition, slowing the onset or rate of development of the condition,
reducing the risk of developing the condition, preventing or delaying the development of
symptoms associated with the condition, reducing or ending symptoms associated with the
condition, generating a complete or partial regression of the condition, or some combination
thereof.
[0074]      FIG. 7 is a block diagram illustrating a method 700 of selectively modulating
afferent renal nerves using the system 100 described above with reference to FIGS. 1-4. With
reference to FIGS. 1-4 and 7 together, the method 700 can optionally include selecting a
suitable candidate patient for performing selective afferent renal neuromodulation (block 702).
The method 700 can include locating the therapeutic element 302 in a delivery state (e.g., low
profile configuration) at a first target site in or near a first renal pelvis, a ureteropelvic junction,
a major calyx, or a minor calyx (e.g., first renal pelvis or first renal calyx) (block 705). The
first treatment device 102 and/or portions thereof (e.g., the therapeutic element 302) can be
inserted into a guide catheter or sheath to facilitate delivery of the therapeutic element 302
through a ureter connected to the renal pelvis. In certain embodiments, for example, the first
treatment device 102 can be configured to fit within an 8 Fr guide catheter or smaller (e.g., 7 Fr,
6 Fr, etc.) to access the ureter, the renal pelvis anatomy and/or renal calyces. A guide wire (not
shown), if present, can be used to manipulate and enhance control of the shaft 300 and the
therapeutic element 302 (e.g., in an over-the-wire or a rapid-exchange configuration). In some
embodiments, radiopaque markers and/or markings on the first treatment device 102 and/or the
guide wire can facilitate placement of the therapeutic element 302 at the first target site (e.g.,
first renal pelvis or first renal calyx of a patient). In some embodiments, a contrast material
                                                   -28-

can be delivered distally beyond the therapeutic element 302, and fluoroscopy and/or other
suitable imaging techniques can be used to aid in placement of the therapeutic element 302 at
the first target site.
[0075]       The method 700 can further include connecting the first treatment device 102 to the
console 106 (block 710), and determining whether the therapeutic element 302 is in the correct
position at the target site and/or whether the therapeutic element (e.g., electrodes, transducers
or cryotherapy balloon) is functioning properly (block 715). Once the therapeutic element 302
is properly located at the first target site and no malfunctions are detected, the console 106 can
be manipulated to initiate application of an energy field to the target site to cause electrically
induced and/or thermally-induced neuromodulation of afferent nerve fibers innervating the
kidney (e.g., using electrodes, transducers, or cryotherapeutic devices). Accordingly, heating
and/or cooling of the therapeutic element 302 causes modulation of afferent renal nerves at the
first target site (block 720).
[0076]       The therapeutic element 302 can then be located at a second target site in or near a
second renal pelvis, a ureteropelvic junction, a major calyx, or a minor calyx (e.g., second
renal pelvis or second renal calyx) (block 725), and correct positioning of the therapeutic
element 302 can be determined (block 730). In selected embodiments, a contrast material can
be delivered distally beyond the therapeutic element 302 and fluoroscopy and/or other suitable
imaging techniques can be used to locate the second renal pelvis or second renal calyx. The
method 700 continues by applying targeted heat or cold to effectuate                 afferent renal
neuromodulation at the second target site (block 735).
[0077]      After    providing  the   therapeutically-effective  neuromodulation     energy   (e.g.,
cryogenic cooling, RF energy, ultrasound energy, etc.), the method 700 may also include
determining whether the neuromodulation therapeutically treated the patient for one or more
conditions associated with sympathetic overactivity or otherwise sufficiently modulated
afferent nerves or other neural structures proximate the first and second target sites (block 740).
For example, the process of determining whether the neuromodulation therapeutically treated
the nerves can include determining whether nerves were sufficiently modulated or otherwise
disrupted to reduce, suppress, inhibit, block or otherwise affect the afferent (and/or efferent)
renal signals (e.g., by evaluation of suitable biomarkers, stimulation and recording of nerve
signals, etc.). In a further embodiment, patient assessment could be performed at time intervals
(e.g., 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 12 months) following neuromodulation treatment. For
example, the patient can be assessed for measurements of perceived pain, blood pressure
                                                  -29-

control, blood glucose levels, and measures of sympathetic activity (e.g., MSNA, and/or renal
norepinephrine spillover to plasma, whole body norepinephrine spillover, and heart rate
variability).
[0078]       FIG. 8 is another block diagram illustrating a method 800 of selectively modulating
efferent renal nerves using the system 100 described above with reference to FIGS. 1 and 2 and
FIGS. 5 and 6. With reference to FIGS. 1 and 2 and FIGS. 5-8 together, the method 800 can
optionally include selecting a suitable candidate patient for performing selective efferent renal
neuromodulation (block 802).        In one embodiment, the patient has systemic sympathetic
overactivity or hyperactivity and is diagnosed with cystinuria.         In another embodiment, the
patient has systemic sympathetic overactivity or hyperactivity and has been diagnosed as
having an increased risk of developing kidney stones relative to the general population. The
method 800 can include intravascularly locating the therapeutic element 502 in a delivery state
(e.g., low-profile configuration) at a first target site in or near a first renal blood vessel (e.g., a
first renal artery, a first renal branch artery) or a first renal ostium (block 805).        The first
treatment device 102 and/or portions thereof (e.g., the therapeutic element 502) can be inserted
into a guide catheter or sheath to facilitate intravascular delivery of the therapeutic element 502.
In certain embodiments, for example, the first treatment device 102 can be configured to fit
within an 8 Fr guide catheter or smaller (e.g., 7 Fr, 6 Fr, etc.) to access the ureter, the renal
pelvis anatomy and/or renal calyces). A guide wire (not shown), if present, can be used to
manipulate and enhance control of the shaft 500 and the therapeutic element 502 (e.g., in an
over-the-wire or a rapid-exchange configuration). Radiopaque markers and/or markings on the
first treatment device 102 and/or the guide wire can, in some embodiments, facilitate
placement of the therapeutic element 502 at the first target site (e.g., first renal artery or branch
artery or a first renal ostium of a patient). In some embodiments, a contrast material can be
delivered distally beyond the therapeutic element 502, and fluoroscopy and/or other suitable
imaging techniques can be used to aid in placement of the therapeutic element 502 at the first
target site.
[0079]       The method 800 can further include connecting the first treatment device 102 to the
console 106 (block 810).        Further steps can include determining whether the therapeutic
element 502 is in the correct position at the first target site and/or whether the therapeutic
element 502 (e.g., electrodes, transducers or cryotherapy balloon) is properly functioning
(block 815).     Once the therapeutic element 502 is located at the first target site and no
malfunctions are detected, the console 106 can be manipulated to initiate application of an
                                                  -30-

energy field (e.g., using a suitable algorithm) to the first target site to cause electrically
induced and/or thermally-induced neuromodulation of efferent nerve fibers innervating the
kidney (e.g., using electrodes, transducers or cryotherapeutic devices). Accordingly, heating
and/or cooling of the therapeutic element 502 causes modulation of efferent renal nerves at the
first target site (block 820).
[0080]      If desirable, the therapeutic element 502 can be located at a second target site in or
near a second renal blood vessel (e.g., second renal artery, second renal branch artery or
second renal ostium) (block 825), and correct positioning of the therapeutic element 502 can be
determined (block 830). In selected embodiments, a contrast material can be delivered distally
beyond the therapeutic element 502 and fluoroscopy and/or other suitable imaging techniques
can be used to locate the second renal artery, second renal branch artery or second renal ostium.
The method 800 continues by applying targeted thermal energy to effectuate efferent renal
neuromodulation at the second target site (block 835).
[0081]      After    providing   the  therapeutically-effective   neuromodulation    energy  (e.g.,
cryogenic cooling, RF energy, ultrasound energy, etc.), the method 800 may also include
determining whether the neuromodulation therapeutically treated the patient for one or more
conditions associated with sympathetic overactivity or otherwise sufficiently modulated
efferent nerves or other neural structures proximate the first and/or second target sites (block
840). For example, the process of determining whether the neuromodulation therapeutically
treated the efferent nerves can include determining whether nerves were sufficiently modulated
or otherwise disrupted to reduce, suppress, inhibit, block or otherwise affect the efferent
(and/or afferent) renal signals (e.g., by evaluation of suitable biomarkers, stimulation and
recording of nerve signals, etc.).       In a further embodiment, patient assessment could be
performed at time intervals (e.g., 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 12 months) following
neuromodulation treatment. For example, the patient can be assessed for measurements of
perceived pain, blood pressure control, blood glucose levels, and measures of sympathetic
activity (e.g.,    MSNA,     and/or renal norepinephrine      spillover to plasma, whole body
norepinephrine spillover, and heart rate variability).
[0082]          Referring to FIGS. 7 and 8 together and in one example, the first treatment device
102 can be an RF energy emitting device and RF energy can be delivered through energy
delivery elements or electrodes to one or more locations along the inner wall of the first target
site for predetermined periods of time (e.g., 120 seconds).        In some embodiments, multiple
treatments (e.g., 4-6) may be administered in both the first and second target sites (e.g., in the
                                                 -31-

left and right renal pelvis or renal arteries to achieve a desired coverage). An objective of a
treatment may be, for example, to heat tissue to a desired depth (e.g., at least about 1.5 mm, at
least about 2 mm, at least about 3 mm) to a temperature (e.g., about 65C) that would modulate
one or more nerve fibers associated with or adjacent to one or more lesions formed in the
vessel wall. A clinical objective of the procedure typically is to neuromodulate a sufficient
number of renal nerves (e.g., selectively efferent or afferent nerves) to cause a reduction in
central sympathetic drive and/or reduction in sympathetic tone or drive to the kidneys without,
for example, disrupting renal function and while minimizing vessel trauma. If the objective of
a treatment is met (e.g., tissue is heated to about 65'C to a depth of about 1 mm to about 3 mm)
the probability of modulating renal nerve tissue (e.g., altering nerve function) is high. In some
embodiments, a single neuromodulation treatment procedure can provide for sufficient
modulation of target sympathetic nerves (e.g., modulation of a sufficient number of nerve
fibers) to provide a desired clinical outcome. In other embodiments, more than one treatment
may be beneficial for modulating a desired number or volume of target sympathetic nerve
fibers, and thereby achieve clinical success. In other embodiments, an objective may include
reducing or eliminating target sympathetic nerve function completely.
[0083]      In a specific example of using RF energy for renal nerve modulation, a clinician can
commence treatment which causes the control algorithm 132 (FIG. 1) to initiate instructions to
the generator (not shown) to gradually adjust its power output to a first power level (e.g.,
5 watts) over a first time period (e.g., 15 seconds). The power increase during the first time
period is generally linear. As a result, the generator increases its power output at a generally
constant rate of power/time, i.e., in a linear manner. Alternatively, the power increase may be
non-linear (e.g., exponential or parabolic) with a variable rate of increase. Once the first power
level and the first time are achieved, the algorithm may hold at the first power level until a
second predetermined period of time has elapsed (e.g., 3 seconds). At the conclusion of the
second period of time, power is again increased by a predetermined increment (e.g., 1 watt) to
a second power level over a third predetermined period of time (e.g., 1 second). This power
ramp in predetermined increments of about 1 watt over predetermined periods of time may
continue until a maximum power PMAX is achieved or some other condition is satisfied. In one
embodiment, PMAX is 8 watts.         In another embodiment, PMAX is 10 watts, or in a further
embodiment, PMAX is 6.5 watts. In some embodiments, PMAX can be about 6 watts to about 10
watts. Optionally, the power may be maintained at the maximum power PMAX for a desired
                                                 -32-

period of time or up to the desired total treatment time (e.g., up to about 120 seconds) or until a
specified temperature is reached or maintained for a specified time period.
[0084]      In another specific example, the first treatment device 102 can be a cryogenic device
and cryogenic cooling can be applied for one or more cycles (e.g., for 30 second increments,
60 second increments, 90 second increments, etc.) in one or more locations along the
circumference and/or length of the first target site. The cooling cycles can be, for example,
fixed periods or can be fully or partially dependent on detected temperatures (e.g.,
temperatures detected by a thermocouple (not shown) of the therapeutic element 302 or 502).
In some embodiments, a first stage can include cooling tissue until a first target temperature is
reached. A second stage can include maintaining cooling for a set period, such as 15-180
seconds (e.g., 90 seconds). A third stage can include terminating or decreasing cooling to
allow the tissue to warm to a second target temperature higher than the first target temperature.
A fourth stage can include continuing to allow the tissue to warm for a set period, such as 10
120 seconds (e.g., 60 seconds). A fifth stage can include cooling the tissue until the first target
temperature (or a different target temperature) is reached.           A sixth stage can include
maintaining cooling for a set period, such as 15-180 seconds (e.g., 90 seconds). A seventh
stage can, for example, include allowing the tissue to warm completely (e.g., to reach a body
temperature).
[0085]      In other embodiments, various steps in the methods 700 or 800 can be modified,
omitted, and/or additional steps may be added. In further embodiments, the methods 700 or
800 can have a delay between applying therapeutically-effective neuromodulation energy at a
first target site and applying therapeutically-effective neuromodulation energy at a second
target site. For example, neuromodulation of the first target site can take place at a first
treatment session, and neuromodulation of the second target site can take place at a second
treatment session at a later time. In other embodiments, various steps of the methods 700 and
800 could be combined.         In a specific example, therapeutically-effective neuromodulation
energy can be delivered at a first target site in a renal artery (e.g., energy delivered
intravascularly by catheter), and therapeutically-effective neuromodulation energy can be
delivered (e.g., either prior to, concurrently with, or following energy delivery to the first target
site) at a second target site in a renal pelvis (e.g., energy delivered via a catheterization path
through the ureter and/or delivered extracorporeally).         Accordingly, embodiments of the
methods disclosed herein include neuromodulation of nerves proximate to renal blood vessel(s)
and/or the renal pelvis. Without being bound by theory, in some embodiments it is believed
                                                -33-

that modulation of nerves proximate both the renal artery and the renal pelvis may provide for
modulation of a higher percentage of afferent nerve fibers with respect to a total number of
modulated nerve fibers.
[0086]      As discussed previously, treatment procedures for selective modulation of afferent
or efferent renal nerves in accordance with embodiments of the present technology are
expected to improve at least one condition associated with renal sympathetic activity (e.g.,
overactivity or hyperactivity) and/or central sympathetic activity (e.g., overactivity or
hyperactivity). For example, with respect to central sympathetic activity (e.g., overactivity or
hyperactivity), modulation of renal nerves is expected to reduce muscle sympathetic nerve
activity and/or whole body norepinephrine spillover in patients.        These and other clinical
effects are expected to be detectable immediately after a treatment procedure or after a delay,
e.g., of 1, 2, or 3 months.     In some instances, it may be useful to repeat selective renal
neuromodulation, such as selective efferent or afferent renal neuromodulation, at the same
treatment location or a different treatment location after a suitable delay, e.g., 1, 2, or 3 years.
In still other embodiments, however, other suitable treatment regimens or techniques may be
used.
VIII.    Pertinent Anatomy and Physiology
[0087]      The following discussion provides further details regarding pertinent patient
anatomy and physiology. This section is intended to supplement and expand upon the previous
discussion regarding the relevant anatomy and physiology, and to provide additional context
regarding the disclosed technology and the therapeutic benefits associated with renal
neuromodulation.     For example, as mentioned previously, several properties of the renal
vasculature may inform the design of treatment devices and associated methods for achieving
renal neuromodulation via intravascular access, and impose specific design requirements for
such devices. Specific design requirements may include accessing the renal artery, facilitating
stable contact between the energy delivery elements of such devices and a luminal surface or
wall of the renal       artery, and/or effectively   modulating the renal       nerves with the
neuromodulatory apparatus.
         A.           The Sympathetic Nervous System
[0088]      The SNS is a branch of the autonomic nervous system along with the enteric
nervous system and parasympathetic nervous system. It is always active at a basal level (called
                                               -34-

sympathetic tone) and becomes more active during times of stress. Like other parts of the
nervous system, the SNS operates through a series of interconnected neurons.        Sympathetic
neurons are frequently considered part of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), although many
lie within the central nervous system (CNS). Sympathetic neurons of the spinal cord (which is
part of the CNS) communicate with peripheral sympathetic neurons via a series of sympathetic
ganglia.   Within the ganglia, spinal cord sympathetic neurons join peripheral sympathetic
neurons through synapses. Spinal cord sympathetic neurons are therefore called presynaptic
(or preganglionic) neurons, while peripheral sympathetic neurons are called postsynaptic (or
postganglionic) neurons.
[0089]     At synapses within the sympathetic ganglia, preganglionic sympathetic neurons
release acetylcholine, a chemical messenger that binds and activates nicotinic acetylcholine
receptors on postganglionic neurons.      In response to this stimulus, postganglionic neurons
principally release noradrenaline (norepinephrine). Prolonged activation may elicit the release
of adrenaline from the adrenal medulla.
[0090]      Once released, norepinephrine binds adrenergic receptors on peripheral tissues.
Binding to adrenergic receptors causes a neuronal and hormonal response.        The physiologic
manifestations include pupil dilation, increased heart rate, occasional vomiting, and increased
blood pressure. Increased sweating is also seen due to binding of cholinergic receptors of the
sweat glands.
[0091]      The SNS is responsible for up- and down-regulation of many homeostatic
mechanisms in living organisms. Fibers from the SNS innervate tissues in almost every organ
system, providing at least some regulatory function to physiological features as diverse as pupil
diameter, gut motility, and urinary output.     This response is also known as the sympatho
adrenal response of the body, as the preganglionic sympathetic fibers that end in the adrenal
medulla (but also all other sympathetic fibers) secrete acetylcholine, which activates the
secretion of adrenaline (epinephrine) and to a lesser extent noradrenaline (norepinephrine).
Therefore, this response that acts primarily on the cardiovascular system is mediated directly
via impulses transmitted through the SNS and indirectly via catecholamines secreted from the
adrenal medulla.
[0092]      Science typically looks at the SNS as an automatic regulation system, that is, one
that operates without the intervention of conscious thought.       Some evolutionary theorists
suggest that the SNS operated in early organisms to maintain survival as the SNS is
                                               -35-

responsible for priming the body for action. One example of this priming is in the moments
before waking, in which sympathetic outflow spontaneously increases in preparation for action.
           1.            The Sympathetic Chain
[0093]      As shown in FIG. 9, the SNS provides a network of nerves that allows the brain to
communicate with the body. Sympathetic nerves originate inside the vertebral column, toward
the middle of the spinal cord in the intermediolateral cell column (or lateral horn), beginning at
the first thoracic segment of the spinal cord and are thought to extend to the second or third
lumbar segments. Because its cells begin in the thoracic and lumbar regions of the spinal cord,
the SNS is said to have a thoracolumbar outflow. Axons of these nerves leave the spinal cord
through the anterior rootlet/root.    They pass near the spinal (sensory) ganglion, where they
enter the anterior rami of the spinal nerves. However, unlike somatic innervation, they quickly
separate out through white rami connectors that connect to either the paravertebral (which lie
near the vertebral column) or prevertebral (which lie near the aortic bifurcation) ganglia
extending alongside the spinal column.
[0094]      In order to reach the target organs and glands, the axons travel long distances in the
body. Many axons relay their message to a second cell through synaptic transmission. The
first cell (the presynaptic cell) sends a neurotransmitter across the synaptic cleft (the space
between the axon terminal of the first cell and the dendrite of the second cell) where it
activates the second cell (the postsynaptic cell). The message is then propagated to the final
destination.
[0095]      In the SNS and other neuronal networks of the peripheral nervous system, these
synapses are located at sites called ganglia, discussed above. The cell that sends its fiber to a
ganglion is called a preganglionic cell, while the cell whose fiber leaves the ganglion is called
a postganglionic cell. As mentioned previously, the preganglionic cells of the SNS are located
between the first thoracic (TI) segment and third lumbar (L3) segments of the spinal cord.
Postganglionic cells have their cell bodies in the ganglia and send their axons to target organs
or glands. The ganglia include not just the sympathetic trunks but also the cervical ganglia
(superior, middle and inferior), which sends sympathetic nerve fibers to the head and thorax
organs, and the celiac and mesenteric ganglia (which send sympathetic fibers to the gut).
                                                -36-

          2.            Nerves of the Kidneys
[0096]      As FIG. 10 shows, the kidney is innervated by the renal plexus RP, which is
intimately associated with the renal artery RA. The renal plexus RP is an autonomic plexus
that surrounds the renal artery RA and is embedded within the adventitia of the renal artery RA.
The renal plexus RP extends along the renal artery RA until it arrives at the substance of the
kidney. Fibers contributing to the renal plexus RP arise from the celiac ganglion, the superior
mesenteric ganglion, the aorticorenal ganglion and the aortic plexus. The renal plexus RP, also
referred to as the renal nerve, is predominantly comprised of sympathetic components. There
is no (or at least very minimal) parasympathetic innervation of the kidney.
[0097]      Preganglionic neuronal cell bodies are located in the intermediolateral cell column
of the spinal cord. Preganglionic axons pass through the paravertebral ganglia (they do not
synapse) to become the lesser splanchnic nerve, the least splanchnic nerve, the first lumbar
splanchnic nerve, and the second lumbar splanchnic nerve, and they travel to the celiac
ganglion, the superior mesenteric ganglion, and the aorticorenal ganglion.          Postganglionic
neuronal cell bodies exit the celiac ganglion, the superior mesenteric ganglion, and the
aorticorenal ganglion to the renal plexus RP and are distributed to the renal vasculature.
          3.            Renal Sympathetic Neural Activity
[0098]      Messages travel through the SNS in a bidirectional flow. Efferent messages may
trigger changes in different parts of the body simultaneously.     For example, the sympathetic
nervous system may accelerate heart rate, widen bronchial passages, decrease motility
(movement) of the large intestine, constrict blood vessels, increase peristalsis in the esophagus,
cause pupil dilation, piloerection (goose bumps) and perspiration (sweating), and raise blood
pressure. Afferent messages carry signals from various organs and sensory receptors in the
body to other organs and, particularly, the brain.
[0099]      Hypertension, heart failure and chronic kidney disease are a few of many disease
states that result from chronic activation of the SNS, especially the renal sympathetic nervous
system. Chronic activation of the SNS is a maladaptive response that drives the progression of
these disease states. Pharmaceutical management of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system
(RAAS) has been a longstanding, but somewhat ineffective, approach for reducing over
activity of the SNS.
[00100]     As mentioned above, the renal sympathetic nervous system has been identified as a
major contributor to the complex pathophysiology of hypertension, states of volume overload
                                                -37-

(such as heart failure), and progressive renal disease, both experimentally and in humans.
 Studies employing radiotracer dilution methodology to measure overflow of norepinephrine
(NE) from the kidneys to plasma revealed increased renal NE spillover rates in patients with
essential hypertension, particularly so in young hypertensive subjects, which in concert with
increased NE spillover from the heart, is consistent with the hemodynamic profile typically
seen in early hypertension and characterized by an increased heart rate, cardiac output, and
renovascular resistance. It is now known that essential hypertension is commonly neurogenic,
often accompanied by pronounced SNS overactivity.
 [00101]   Activation of cardiorenal sympathetic nerve activity is even more pronounced in
heart failure, as demonstrated by an exaggerated increase of NE overflow from the heart and
the kidneys to plasma in this patient group. In line with this notion is the recent demonstration
of a strong negative predictive value of renal sympathetic activation on all-cause mortality and
heart transplantation in patients with congestive heart failure, which is independent of overall
sympathetic activity, glomerular filtration rate, and left ventricular ejection fraction.   These
findings support the notion that treatment regimens that are designed to reduce renal
sympathetic stimulation have the potential to improve survival in patients with heart failure.
 [00102]   Both chronic and end stage renal disease are characterized by heightened
sympathetic nervous activation.     In patients with end stage renal disease, plasma levels of
norepinephrine above the median have been demonstrated to be predictive for both all-cause
death and death from cardiovascular disease.        This is also true for patients suffering from
diabetic or contrast nephropathy.      There is compelling evidence suggesting that sensory
afferent signals originating from the diseased kidneys are major contributors to initiating and
sustaining elevated central sympathetic outflow in this patient group; this facilitates the
occurrence of the well known adverse consequences of chronic sympathetic over activity, such
as hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy, ventricular arrhythmias, sudden cardiac death,
insulin resistance, diabetes, and metabolic syndrome.
                  (i)           Renal Sympathetic Efferent Activity
 [00103]    Sympathetic    nerves  to  the   kidneys    terminate   in  the  blood   vessels,  the
juxtaglomerular apparatus and the renal tubules. Stimulation of the renal sympathetic nerves
causes increased renin release, increased sodium (Na') reabsorption, and a reduction of renal
blood flow.    These components of the neural regulation of renal function are considerably
stimulated in disease states characterized by heightened sympathetic tone and clearly
                                               -38-

contribute to the rise in blood pressure in hypertensive patients. The reduction of renal blood
flow and glomerular filtration rate as a result of renal sympathetic efferent stimulation is likely
a cornerstone of the loss of renal function in cardio-renal syndrome, which is renal dysfunction
as a progressive complication of chronic heart failure, with a clinical course that typically
fluctuates with the patient's clinical status and treatment. Pharmacologic strategies to thwart
the consequences       of renal efferent sympathetic stimulation include centrally acting
sympatholytic drugs, beta blockers (intended to reduce renin release), angiotensin converting
enzyme inhibitors and receptor blockers (intended to block the action of angiotensin II and
aldosterone activation consequent to renin release) and diuretics (intended to counter the renal
sympathetic mediated sodium and water retention).          However, the current pharmacologic
strategies have significant limitations including limited efficacy, compliance issues, side
effects and others.
                  (ii)          Renal Sensory Afferent Nerve Activity
[00104]    The kidneys communicate with integral structures in the CNS via renal sensory
afferent nerves.    Several forms of "renal injury" may induce activation of sensory afferent
signals. For example, renal ischemia, reduction in stroke volume or renal blood flow, or an
abundance of adenosine enzyme may trigger activation of afferent neural communication. As
shown in FIGS. 11 B and 1IB, this afferent communication might be from the kidney to the
brain or might be from one kidney to the other kidney (via the CNS). These afferent signals
are centrally integrated and may result in increased sympathetic outflow. This sympathetic
drive is directed towards the kidneys, thereby activating the RAAS and inducing increased
renin secretion, sodium retention, volume retention and vasoconstriction. Central sympathetic
overactivity also impacts other organs and bodily structures innervated by sympathetic nerves
such as the heart and the peripheral vasculature, resulting in the described adverse effects of
sympathetic activation, several aspects of which also contribute to the rise in blood pressure.
[00105]    The physiology therefore suggests that (i) modulation of tissue with efferent
sympathetic nerves will reduce inappropriate renin release, sodium retention, and reduction of
renal blood flow, and that (ii) modulation of tissue with afferent sensory nerves will reduce the
systemic contribution to hypertension and other disease states associated with increased central
sympathetic tone through its direct effect on the posterior hypothalamus as well as the
contralateral kidney.     In addition to the central hypotensive effects of afferent renal
                                                -39-

neuromodulation, a desirable reduction of central sympathetic outflow to various other organs
such as the heart and the vasculature is anticipated.
        B.            Additional Clinical Benefits of Renal Neuromodulation
[00106]    As provided above, selective and/or non-selective renal neuromodulation is likely to
be valuable in the treatment of several clinical conditions characterized by increased overall
and particularly renal sympathetic activity such as hypertension, metabolic syndrome, insulin
resistance, diabetes, left ventricular hypertrophy, chronic end stage renal disease, inappropriate
fluid retention in heart failure, cardio-renal syndrome, and sudden death. Since the reduction
of afferent neural signals contributes to the systemic reduction of sympathetic tone/drive, renal
neuromodulation and, in one embodiment, selective afferent renal neuromodulation might also
be useful in treating other conditions associated with systemic sympathetic hyperactivity.
Accordingly, selective and/or non-selective renal neuromodulation may also benefit other
organs and bodily structures having sympathetic nerves, including those identified in FIG. 9.
For example, as previously discussed, a reduction in central sympathetic drive may reduce the
insulin resistance that afflicts people with metabolic syndrome and Type II diabetics.
Additionally, patients with osteoporosis are also sympathetically activated and might also
benefit from the down regulation of sympathetic drive that accompanies renal denervation.
        C.            Achieving Intravascular Access to the Renal Artery
[00107]    In accordance with the present technology, neuromodulation of a left and/or right
renal plexus RP, which is intimately associated with a left and/or right renal artery, may be
achieved through intravascular access. As FIG. 12A shows, blood moved by contractions of
the heart is conveyed from the left ventricle of the heart by the aorta. The aorta descends
through the thorax and branches into the left and right renal arteries. Below the renal arteries,
the aorta bifurcates at the left and right iliac arteries. The left and right iliac arteries descend,
respectively, through the left and right legs and join the left and right femoral arteries.
[00108]    As FIG. 12B shows, the blood collects in veins and returns to the heart, through the
femoral veins into the iliac veins and into the inferior vena cava. The inferior vena cava
branches into the left and right renal veins. Above the renal veins, the inferior vena cava
ascends to convey blood into the right atrium of the heart. From the right atrium, the blood is
pumped through the right ventricle into the lungs, where it is oxygenated. From the lungs, the
oxygenated blood is conveyed into the left atrium. From the left atrium, the oxygenated blood
is conveyed by the left ventricle back to the aorta.
                                                 -40-

[00109]    As will be described in greater detail later, the femoral artery may be accessed and
cannulated at the base of the femoral triangle just inferior to the midpoint of the inguinal
ligament.    A catheter (not shown) may be inserted percutaneously into the femoral artery
through this access site, passed through the iliac artery and aorta, and placed into either the left
or right renal artery. This route comprises an intravascular path that offers minimally invasive
access to a respective renal artery and/or other renal blood vessels.
[00110]     The wrist, upper arm, and shoulder region provide other locations for introduction of
catheters into the arterial system. For example, catheterization of either the radial, brachial, or
axillary artery may be utilized in select cases. Catheters introduced via these access points
may be passed through the subclavian artery on the left side (or via the subclavian and
brachiocephalic arteries on the right side), through the aortic arch, down the descending aorta
and into the renal arteries using standard angiographic technique.
        D.            Properties and Characteristics of the Renal Vasculature
[00111]     Properties and characteristics of the renal vasculature impose challenges to both
access and treatment methods, and to system/device designs. Since neuromodulation of a left
and/or right renal plexus RP may be achieved in accordance with embodiments of the present
technology through intravascular access, various aspects of the design of apparatus, systems,
and methods for achieving such renal neuromodulation are disclosed herein. Aspects of the
technology disclosed herein address additional challenges associated with variation of
physiological conditions and architecture across the patient population and/or within a specific
patient across time, as well as in response to disease states, such as hypertension, chronic
kidney disease, vascular disease, end-stage renal disease, insulin resistance, diabetes, metabolic
syndrome, etc. For example, the design of the intravascular device and treatment protocols can
address    not   only    material/mechanical,   spatial,   fluid  dynamic/hemodynamic        and/or
thermodynamic properties, but also provide particular algorithms and feedback protocols for
delivering energy and obtaining real-time confirmatory results of successfully delivering
energy to an intended target location in a patient-specific manner.
[00112]    As discussed previously, a catheter may be advanced percutaneously into either the
left or right renal artery via a minimally invasive intravascular path. However, minimally
invasive renal arterial access may be challenging, for example, because as compared to some
other arteries that are routinely accessed using catheters, the renal arteries are often extremely
tortuous, may be of relatively small diameter, and/or may be of relatively short length.
                                                -41-

Furthermore, renal arterial atherosclerosis is common in many patients, particularly those with
cardiovascular disease.    Renal arterial anatomy also may vary significantly from patient to
patient, which further complicates minimally invasive access.            Significant inter-patient
variation may be seen, for example,          in relative tortuosity, diameter, length, and/or
atherosclerotic plaque burden, as well as in the take-off angle at which a renal artery branches
from the aorta.    Apparatus, systems and methods for achieving renal neuromodulation via
intravascular access should account for these and other aspects of renal arterial anatomy and its
variation across the patient population when minimally invasively accessing a renal artery. For
example, spiral or helical computed tomography (CT) technology can be used to produce 3D
images of the vascular features for individual patients, and intravascular path choice as well as
device size/diameter, length, flexibility, torque-ability, kink resistance, etc. can be selected
based upon the patient's specific vascular features.
[00113]    In addition to complicating renal arterial access, specifics of the renal anatomy also
complicate establishment of stable contact between neuromodulatory apparatus and a luminal
surface or wall of a renal artery. When the neuromodulatory apparatus includes an energy
delivery element, such as an electrode, transducer, heating element or a cryotherapeutic device,
consistent positioning and appropriate contact force applied by the energy or cryotherapy
delivery element to the vessel wall, and adhesion between the applicator and the vessel wall
can be important for predictability. However, navigation can be impeded by the tight space
within a renal artery RA, as well as tortuosity of the artery.         Furthermore, establishing
consistent contact can be complicated by patient movement, respiration, and/or the cardiac
cycle because these factors may cause significant movement of the renal artery RA relative to
the aorta, and the cardiac cycle may transiently distend the renal artery RA (i.e., cause the wall
of the artery to pulse). As mentioned previously, to address these challenges, the treatment
device or applicator may be designed with relative sizing and flexibility considerations.      For
example, the renal artery may have an internal diameter in a range of about 2-10 mm and the
treatment device can be delivered using a 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 French, or in some cases, an 8 French
sized catheter. To address challenges associated with patient and/or arterial movement during
treatment, the treatment device and neuromodulation system can be configured to use sensory
feedback, such as impedance and temperature, to detect instability and to alert the operator to
reposition the device and/or to temporarily stop treatment.       In other embodiments, energy
delivery algorithms can be varied in real-time to account for changes detected due to patient
and/or arterial movement. In further examples, the treatment device may include one or more
                                                -42-

modifications or movement resistant enhancements such as atraumatic friction knobs or barbs
on an outside surface of the device for resisting movement of the device relative to the desired
tissue location, positionable balloons for inflating and holding the device in a consistent and
stable position during treatment, or the device can include a cryogenic component that can
temporarily freeze or adhere the device to the desired tissue location.
[00114]     After   accessing   a  renal   artery    and  facilitating  stable   contact    between
neuromodulatory apparatus and a luminal surface of the artery, nerves in and around the
adventitia of the artery can be modulated via the neuromodulatory apparatus.             Effectively
applying thermal treatment from within a renal artery is non-trivial given the potential clinical
complications associated with such treatment. For example, the intima and media of the renal
artery are highly vulnerable to thermal injury. As discussed in greater detail below, the intima
media thickness separating the vessel lumen from its adventitia means that target renal nerves
may be multiple millimeters distant (e.g., 1-3 mm) from the luminal surface of the artery.
Sufficient energy can be delivered to the target renal nerves to modulate the target renal nerves
without excessively cooling or heating the vessel wall to the extent that the wall is frozen,
desiccated, or otherwise potentially affected to an undesirable extent.        For example, when
employing energy modalities such as RF or ultrasound, energy delivery can be focused on a
location further from the interior vessel wall. In one embodiment, the majority of the RF or
ultrasound energy can be focused on a location (e.g., a "hot spot") 1-3 mm beyond the interior
surface of the vessel wall. The energy will dissipate from the hot spot in a radially decreasing
manner. Thus, the targeted nerves can be modulated without damage to the luminal surface of
the vessel. A potential clinical complication associated with excessive heating is thrombus
formation from coagulating blood flowing through the artery. Given that this thrombus may
cause a kidney infarct, thereby causing irreversible damage to the kidney, thermal treatment
from within the renal artery RA can be applied carefully.         Accordingly, the complex fluid
mechanics and thermodynamic conditions present in the renal artery during treatment,
particularly those that may impact heat transfer dynamics at the treatment site, may be
important in applying energy (e.g., heating thermal energy) and/or removing heat from the
tissue (e.g., cooling thermal conditions) from within the renal artery.
[00115]     The neuromodulatory apparatus can also be configured to allow for adjustable
positioning and repositioning of an energy delivery element or a cryotherapeutic device, within
the renal artery since location of treatment may also impact clinical efficacy. For example, it
may be tempting to apply a full circumferential treatment from within the renal artery given
                                                -43-

that the renal nerves may be spaced circumferentially around a renal artery. In some situations,
a full-circle lesion likely resulting from a continuous circumferential treatment may be
potentially related to renal artery stenosis. Therefore, the formation of more complex lesions
along a longitudinal dimension of the renal artery via the cryotherapeutic devices or energy
delivery elements and/or repositioning of the neuromodulatory apparatus to multiple treatment
locations may be desirable.        It should be noted, however, that a benefit of forming a
circumferential lesion or ablation may outweigh the potential of renal artery stenosis or the risk
may be mitigated with          certain embodiments     or in certain patients and forming a
circumferential lesion or ablation could be a goal.       Additionally, variable positioning and
repositioning of the neuromodulatory apparatus may prove to be useful in circumstances where
the renal artery is particularly tortuous or where there are proximal branch vessels off the renal
artery main vessel, making treatment in certain locations challenging.
[00116]     Blood flow through a renal artery may be temporarily occluded for a short time with
minimal or no complications.        However, occlusion for a significant amount of time can be
avoided in some cases to prevent injury to the kidney such as ischemia. It can be beneficial to
avoid occlusion altogether or, if occlusion is beneficial, to limit the duration of occlusion (e.g.,
2-5 minutes).
[00117]     Based on the       above described    challenges    of (1) renal   artery intervention,
(2) consistent and stable placement of the treatment element against the vessel wall,
(3) effective application of treatment across the vessel wall, (4) positioning and potentially
repositioning the treatment apparatus to allow for multiple treatment locations,                and
(5) avoiding or limiting duration of blood flow occlusion, various independent and dependent
properties of the renal vasculature that may be of interest include, for example, (a) vessel
diameter, vessel length, intima-media thickness, coefficient of friction, and tortuosity;
(b) distensibility, stiffness and modulus of elasticity of the vessel wall; (c) peak systolic, end
diastolic blood flow velocity, as well as the mean systolic-diastolic peak blood flow velocity,
and mean/max volumetric blood flow rate; (d) specific heat capacity of blood and/or of the
vessel wall, thermal conductivity of blood and/or of the vessel wall, and/or thermal
convectivity of blood flow past a vessel wall treatment site and/or radiative heat transfer;
(e) renal artery motion relative to the aorta induced by respiration, patient movement, and/or
blood flow pulsatility; and (f) the takeoff angle of a renal artery relative to the aorta. These
properties will be discussed in greater detail with respect to the renal arteries.       However,
                                                -44-

depending on the apparatus, systems, and methods utilized to achieve renal neuromodulation,
such properties of the renal arteries also may guide and/or constrain design characteristics.
[00118]    As noted above, an apparatus positioned within a renal artery can conform to the
geometry of the artery. Renal artery vessel diameter,    DRA,  typically is in a range of about 2-10
mm, with most of the patient population having a DRA of about 4 mm to about 8 mm and an
average of about 6 mm. Renal artery vessel length,      LRA,  between its ostium at the aorta/renal
artery juncture and its distal branchings, generally is in a range of about 5-70 mm, and a
significant portion of the patient population is in a range of about 20-50 mm. Since the target
renal plexus is embedded within the adventitia of the renal artery, the composite intima-media
thickness, IMT, (i.e., the radial outward distance from the artery's luminal surface to the
adventitia containing target neural structures) also is notable and generally is in a range of
about 0.5-2.5 mm, with an average of about 1.5 mm. Although a certain depth of treatment can
be important to reach the target neural fibers, the treatment typically is not too deep (e.g., the
treatment can be less than about 5 mm from the inner wall of the renal artery) so as to avoid
non-target tissue and anatomical structures such as the renal vein.
[00119]    An additional property of the renal artery that may be of interest is the degree of
renal motion relative to the aorta, induced by respiration and/or blood flow pulsatility. A
patient's kidney, which is located at the distal end of the renal artery, may move as much as
four inches cranially with respiratory excursion. This may impart significant motion to the
renal artery connecting the aorta and the kidney. Accordingly, the neuromodulatory apparatus
can have a unique balance of stiffness and flexibility to maintain contact between a cryo
applicator or another thermal treatment element and the vessel wall during cycles of respiration.
Furthermore, the takeoff angle between the renal artery and the aorta may vary significantly
between patients, and also may vary dynamically within a patient, e.g., due to kidney motion.
The takeoff angle generally may be in a range of about 30'-135'.
IX.     Examples
        Example 1: Effect of renal neuromodulation on hypertension
[00120]     Patients selected having a baseline systolic blood pressure of 160 mm Hg or more
150 mm Hg for patients with type 2 diabetes) and taking three or more antihypertensive drugs,
were randomly allocated into two groups: 51 assessed in a control group (antihypertensive
                                                -45-

drugs only) and 49 assessed in a treated group (undergone renal neuromodulation and
antihypertensive drugs).
[00121]    Patients in both groups were assessed at 6 months. Office-based blood pressure
measurements in the treated group were reduced by 32/12 mm Hg (SD 23/11, baseline of
178/96 mm Hg, p<0.0001), whereas they did not differ from baseline in the control group
(change of 1/0 mm Hg, baseline of 178/97 mm Hg, p=0.77 systolic and p=0.83 diastolic).
Between-group differences in blood pressure at 6 months were 33/11 mm Hg (p<0.0001). At
6 months, 41 (84%) of 49 patients who underwent renal neuromodulation had a reduction in
systolic blood pressure of 10 mm Hg or more, compared with 18 (35%) of 51 control patients
(p<0.0001).
        Example 2: Effect of renal neuromodulation on components of the RAAS in patients
                      with resistant hypertension
[00122]    Eight patients (55.4  13 years) with treatment resistant hypertension were included
in a study to determine blood and urine samples levels of individual components of the renin
angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) before (day -1), after (day =1) and again after 3
months of renal nerve ablation.
[00123]    Results indicated no statistically significant change in renal plasma flow, plasma
renin activity or serum angiotensin II levels in this cohort of patients. There was a significant
acute decrease in plasma aldosterone concentration one day post ablation (day -1: 161 (140
265) vs. day +1: 110 (101-168) pg/ml, p=0.012) and in accordance an increased urinary
sodium/potassium ratio (day -1: 2.41 (1.17 - 3.44) vs. day +1: 6.02 (4.83 - 7.92), p= 0.028).
After 3 months, these changes were no longer evident.           Urinary angiotensinogen levels,
considered as a parameter of the local renal RAAS activity, tended to be reduced at day +1
(P=0.116) and significantly decreased after 3 months (6.06 (3.02 - 13.8) vs. 16.6 (8.50 - 37.0).
P =  0.046 compared to day -1 levels.
X.      Further Examples
        1.      A method for treating a human patient, comprising:
        selectively neuromodulating afferent renal nerves in the patient compared to efferent
                renal nerves in the patient; and
        improving a measurable physiological parameter in the patient corresponding to
                systemic sympathetic overactivity or hyperactivity.
                                                 -46-

        2.       The method of example 1, further comprising reducing muscle sympathetic
nerve activity at least about 10% in the patient within about three months after selectively
neuromodulating the afferent renal nerves.
        3.       The method of example 1 or example 2, further comprising reducing whole
body norepinephrine spillover in the patient.
        4.       The method of any one of examples 1-3, further comprising reducing whole
body norepinephrine spillover at least about 20% in the patient within about three months after
selectively neuromodulating the afferent renal nerves.
        5.       A method for treating a human patient having a diagnosed condition or disease
associated with systemic sympathetic overactivity, the method comprising:
        activating a medium within a renal pelvis of a kidney of the patient; and
        at least partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity in nerves proximate the renal
                 pelvis via the medium.
        6.       The method of example 5 wherein
        the medium includes a fluid,
        the method further comprises introducing the fluid into the renal pelvis, and
        activating the medium selectively affects afferent renal nerves compared to efferent
                 renal nerves in the patient.
        7.       The method of example 5 or example 6, further comprising at least partially
blocking the ureter to at least partially maintain the medium in the renal pelvis.
         8.      The method of any one of examples 5-7 wherein activating the medium includes
heating the medium to a temperature sufficient to at least partially inhibit sympathetic neural
activity in the nerves.
        9.       The method of example 8 wherein heating the medium includes applying
ultrasound energy to the medium.
                                                 -47-

        10.     The method of example 8 or example 9 wherein heating the medium includes
focusing ultrasound energy in a focal zone within the medium.
        11.     The method of example 8 or example 9 wherein the medium is selected to
preferentially heat in the presence of the ultrasound energy relative to tissue surrounding the
renal pelvis.
        12.     The method of example 8 or example 9 wherein the medium includes a
microbubble contrast agent.
        13.     The method of any one of examples 5-12, further comprising
        introducing a catheter through a ureter connected to the renal pelvis; and
        positioning a therapeutic element of the catheter within the renal pelvis.
        14.     The method of example 13, further comprising activating the medium using the
therapeutic element.
        15.     The method of example 13 or example 14 wherein the therapeutic element
includes one or more electrodes configured to delivery radiofrequency energy.
        16.     The method of example 13 or example 14 wherein the therapeutic element
includes a cryotherapeutic cooling assembly.
        17.     The method of example 13 or example 14 wherein the therapeutic element is
configured to deliver microwave energy.
        18.     The method of example 13 or example 14 wherein the therapeutic element is
configured to deliver direct heat.
        19.     The method of any one of examples 13-18, wherein the therapeutic element
includes an opening, and wherein activating the medium includes introducing a chemical into
the medium via the opening.
                                               -48-

         20.     The method of example 19, wherein the therapeutic element includes an
electrode, and wherein activating the medium further comprises activating the electrode to
move at least a portion of the chemical into a wall of the renal pelvis by electrophoresis.
         21.     A method for treating a human patient, comprising:
         focusing ultrasound energy in a focal zone along a renal pelvic wall of a kidney of the
                 patient; and
         at least partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity in nerves proximate the renal
                 pelvic wall.
         22.     The method of example 21, further comprising introducing a fluid into the renal
pelvis.
         23.     The method of example 22, further comprising
         introducing a catheter through a ureter of the patient; and
         introducing the fluid via the catheter.
         24.     The method of example 22 or example 23 wherein the fluid includes an
epithelial-protective agent.
         25.     The method of any one of examples 22-24 wherein the fluid includes
polyethylene glycol.
         26.     The method of any one of examples 22-25 wherein the fluid includes a local
anesthetic.
         27.     The method of any one of examples 22-26, further comprising cooling the fluid
to at least partially protect an inner portion of an epithelium of the renal pelvic wall.
         28.     The method of any one of examples 22-27 wherein the fluid includes a
visualization medium.
                                                  -49-

        29.     The method of example 28, further comprising
        imaging the renal pelvis; and
        locating the focal zone based at least partially on the imaging.
        30.     A method for treating a human patient having a diagnosed condition or disease
associated with chronic sympathetic overactivity, the method comprising:
        introducing a catheter through a ureter of the patient;
        positioning a therapeutic element of the catheter within a renal pelvis connected to the
                ureter; and
        at least partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity in nerves proximate the renal
                pelvis using the therapeutic element.
        31.     The method of example 30 wherein the therapeutic element includes one or
more electrodes configured to delivery radiofrequency energy.
        32.     The method of example 30 wherein the therapeutic element includes a
cryotherapeutic cooling assembly.
        33.     The method of example 30 wherein the therapeutic element is configured to
deliver microwave energy.
        34.     The method of example 30 wherein the therapeutic element includes a plurality
of electrodes having a bipolar configuration.
        35.     The method of any one of examples 30-34 wherein the therapeutic element
includes an opening, and at least partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity includes
introducing a chemical into a wall of the renal pelvis via the opening.
        36.     The method of example 35 wherein therapeutic element includes a needle, and
wherein the opening is at an end portion of the needle.
        37.     The method of example 35 or example 36 wherein the chemical is a neurotoxin.
                                                -50-

        38.     The method of any one of examples 35-37 wherein the chemical is guanethidine.
        39.      The method of any one of examples 30-38, wherein at least partially inhibiting
sympathetic neural activity includes
        contacting a plurality of locations along the renal pelvic wall with the therapeutic
                 element, and
        at least partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity in nerves proximate the locations,
                 wherein the locations have relatively-high concentrations of afferent renal nerve
                 terminals.
        40.      A method for treating a human patient having a diagnosed condition or disease
associated with systemic sympathetic overactivity or hyperactivity, the method comprising:
        intravascularly positioning a neuromodulation assembly adjacent to efferent and
                 afferent renal nerves of the patient; and
        selectively neuromodulating efferent renal nerves in the patient compared to afferent
                 renal nerves in the patient,
        wherein selectively neuromodulating the efferent renal nerves improves a measurable
                 physiological parameter in the patient corresponding to the diagnosed condition
                 or disease associated with systemic sympathetic overactivity or hyperactivity of
                 the patient.
        41.      The method of example 40, further comprising reducing muscle sympathetic
nerve activity at least about 10% in the patient within about three months after selectively
neuromodulating the afferent renal nerves.
        42.      The method of example 40 or example 41, further comprising reducing whole
body norepinephrine spillover in the patient.
        43.      The method of any one of examples 40-42, further comprising reducing whole
body norepinephrine spillover at least about 20% in the patient within about three months after
selectively neuromodulating the afferent renal nerves.
                                                  -51-

       44.      The method of any one of examples 40-43 wherein the patient has been
diagnosed as having cystinuria.
       45.      The method of any one of examples 40-44 wherein the patient has been
diagnosed as having an increased risk of developing kidney stones relative to the general
population.
       46.      A method for treating a human patient, comprising:
       intravascularly positing a therapeutic element at a position within a renal artery or a
                renal branch artery of a kidney of the patient; and
       at least partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity at a portion of a renal plexus
                proximate the position using the therapeutic element, wherein
                the renal plexus has a first concentration of afferent renal nerves at a first
                         location proximate an ostium of the renal artery,
                the renal plexus has a second concentration of afferent renal nerves at a second
                         location closer to the kidney than the first location,
                the second concentration of afferent renal nerves is less than about 50% of the
                         first concentration of afferent renal nerves, and
                the position of the therapeutic element is proximate the second location.
       47.      The method of example 46 wherein the second concentration of afferent renal
nerves is less than about 25% of the first concentration of afferent renal nerves.
       48.      The method of example 46 or example 47 wherein
       the position is a first position within a first renal branch artery, and
       the method further comprises
                intravascularly positing the therapeutic element at a second position within a
                         second renal branch artery of the patient, and
                at least partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity at a portion of the renal
                         plexus proximate the second position using the therapeutic element.
                                                  -52-

XI.      Conclusion
[00124]      The above detailed descriptions of embodiments of the technology are not intended
to be exhaustive or to limit the technology to the precise form disclosed above. Although
specific embodiments of, and examples for, the technology are described above for illustrative
purposes, various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the technology, as
those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example, while steps are presented in a
given order, alternative embodiments may perform steps in a different order.              The various
embodiments described herein may also be combined to provide further embodiments.
[00125]      From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that specific embodiments of the
technology have been described herein for purposes of illustration, but well-known structures
and functions have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the
description of the embodiments of the technology.         Where the context permits, singular or
plural terms may also include the plural or singular term, respectively.
[00126]      Moreover, unless the word "or" is expressly limited to mean only a single item
exclusive from the other items in reference to a list of two or more items, then the use of "or"
in such a list is to be interpreted as including (a) any single item in the list, (b) all of the items
in the list, or (c) any combination of the items in the list. Additionally, the term "comprising"
is used throughout to mean including at least the recited feature(s) such that any greater
number of the same feature and/or additional types of other features are not precluded. It will
also be appreciated that specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of
illustration, but that various modifications may be made without deviating from the technology.
Further, while advantages associated with certain embodiments of the technology have been
described in the context of those embodiments, other embodiments may also exhibit such
advantages, and not all embodiments need necessarily exhibit such advantages to fall within
the scope of the technology.        Accordingly, the disclosure and associated technology can
encompass other embodiments not expressly shown or described herein.
                                                 -53-

                                              CLAIMS
I/We claim:
        1.      A method for treating a human patient, comprising:
        selectively neuromodulating afferent renal nerves in the patient compared to efferent
                renal nerves in the patient; and
        improving a measurable physiological parameter in the patient corresponding to
                systemic sympathetic overactivity or hyperactivity.
        2.      The method of claim 1, further comprising reducing muscle sympathetic nerve
activity at least about 10% in the patient within about three months after selectively
neuromodulating the afferent renal nerves.
        3.      The method of claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising reducing whole body
norepinephrine spillover in the patient.
        4.      The method of any one of claims 1-3, further comprising reducing whole body
norepinephrine spillover at least about 20% in the patient within about three months after
selectively neuromodulating the afferent renal nerves.
        5.      A method for treating a human patient having a diagnosed condition or disease
associated with systemic sympathetic overactivity, the method comprising:
        activating a medium within a renal pelvis of a kidney of the patient; and
        at least partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity in nerves proximate the renal
                pelvis via the medium.
        6.      The method of claim 5 wherein
        the medium includes a fluid,
        the method further comprises introducing the fluid into the renal pelvis, and
        activating the medium selectively affects afferent renal nerves compared to efferent
                renal nerves in the patient.
                                                 -54-

        7.       The method of claim 5 or claim 6, further comprising at least partially blocking
the ureter to at least partially maintain the medium in the renal pelvis.
        8.       The method of any one of claims 5-7 wherein activating the medium includes
heating the medium to a temperature sufficient to at least partially inhibit sympathetic neural
activity in the nerves.
        9.       The method of claim 8 wherein heating the medium includes applying
ultrasound energy to the medium.
         10.     The method of claim 8 or claim 9 wherein heating the medium includes
focusing ultrasound energy in a focal zone within the medium.
         11.     The method of claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the medium is selected to
preferentially heat in the presence of the ultrasound energy relative to tissue surrounding the
renal pelvis.
         12.     The method of claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the medium includes a microbubble
contrast agent.
         13.     The method of any one of claims 5-12, further comprising
        introducing a catheter through a ureter connected to the renal pelvis; and
        positioning a therapeutic element of the catheter within the renal pelvis.
         14.     The method of claim 13, further comprising activating the medium using the
therapeutic element.
         15.     The method of claim 13 or claim 14 wherein the therapeutic element includes
one or more electrodes configured to delivery radiofrequency energy.
         16.     The method of claim 13 or claim 14 wherein the therapeutic element includes a
cryotherapeutic cooling assembly.
                                                 -55-

        17.     The method of claim 13 or claim 14 wherein the therapeutic element is
configured to deliver microwave energy.
        18.     The method of claim 13 or claim 14 wherein the therapeutic element is
configured to deliver direct heat.
        19.     The method of any one of claims 13-18, wherein the therapeutic element
includes an opening, and wherein activating the medium includes introducing a chemical into
the medium via the opening.
        20.     The method of claim 19, wherein the therapeutic element includes an electrode,
and wherein activating the medium further comprises activating the electrode to move at least a
portion of the chemical into a wall of the renal pelvis by electrophoresis.
        21.     A method for treating a human patient, comprising:
        focusing ultrasound energy in a focal zone along a renal pelvic wall of a kidney of the
                patient; and
        at least partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity in nerves proximate the renal
                pelvic wall.
        22.     The method of claim 21, further comprising introducing a fluid into the renal
pelvis.
        23.     The method of claim 22, further comprising
        introducing a catheter through a ureter of the patient; and
        introducing the fluid via the catheter.
        24.     The method of claim 22 or claim 23 wherein the fluid includes an epithelial
protective agent.
        25.     The method of any one of claims 22-24 wherein the fluid includes polyethylene
glycol.
                                                -56-

         26.     The method of any one of claims 22-25 wherein the fluid includes a local
anesthetic.
         27.     The method of any one of claims 22-26, further comprising cooling the fluid to
at least partially protect an inner portion of an epithelium of the renal pelvic wall.
         28.     The method of any one of claims 22-27 wherein the fluid includes a
visualization medium.
         29.     The method of claim 28, further comprising
         imaging the renal pelvis; and
         locating the focal zone based at least partially on the imaging.
         30.     A method for treating a human patient having a diagnosed condition or disease
associated with chronic sympathetic overactivity, the method comprising:
         introducing a catheter through a ureter of the patient;
         positioning a therapeutic element of the catheter within a renal pelvis connected to the
                 ureter; and
         at least partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity in nerves proximate the renal
                 pelvis using the therapeutic element.
         31.     The method of claim 30 wherein the therapeutic element includes one or more
electrodes configured to delivery radiofrequency energy.
         32.     The method of claim 30 wherein the therapeutic                element includes a
cryotherapeutic cooling assembly.
         33.     The method of claim 30 wherein the therapeutic element is configured to deliver
microwave energy.
         34.     The method of claim 30 wherein the therapeutic element includes a plurality of
electrodes having a bipolar configuration.
                                                 -57-

       35.      The method of any one of claims 30-34 wherein the therapeutic element
includes an opening, and at least partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity includes
introducing a chemical into a wall of the renal pelvis via the opening.
       36.      The method of claim 35 wherein therapeutic element includes a needle, and
wherein the opening is at an end portion of the needle.
       37.      The method of claim 35 or claim 36 wherein the chemical is a neurotoxin.
       38.      The method of any one of claims 35-37 wherein the chemical is guanethidine.
       39.      The method of any one of claims 30-38, wherein at least partially inhibiting
sympathetic neural activity includes
       contacting a plurality of locations along the renal pelvic wall with the therapeutic
                element, and
       at least partially inhibiting sympathetic neural activity in nerves proximate the locations,
                wherein the locations have relatively-high concentrations of afferent renal nerve
                terminals.
                                                -58-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
