I: \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16171592_l.DOC-14 12/2017
                                                              Abstract
 Rapamycin derivatives have interesting effects in the treatment of solid tumours,
 optionally in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent

H:rbr\ntheroven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16171592_ 1.DOC-14/12/2017
Cancer Treatment
This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. <removed-apn> the
specification of which as originally filed is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
The present invention relates to a new use, in particular a new use for a compound group
comprising rapamycin and derivatives thereof.
Rapamycin is a known macrolide antibiotic produced by Streptomyces hygroscopicus. Suitable
derivatives of rapamycin include e.g. compounds of formula 1
                                                        41
                                                           9383 30
                                                       4i             3   2 31
                                                     72             -    X          2 Hm
                                                     N                          29
                                                   0           0e                     27  00
                                                               9                      26
                                              10     ON           ,R                     25
                                                 11                   is
                                                                      1      20      22 23
                                                13          1s            19     21
wherein
R1 is CH3 or C3-ealkynyl,
R2 is H or-CH2-CH2-OH, and
X is =0, (H, H) or (H, OH)
provided that R2 is other than H when X is =0 and R1 is CH 3.
Compounds of formula I are disclosed e.g. in WO 94/09010, WO 95/16691 or WO 96/41807, which
are incorporated herein by reference. They may be prepared as disclosed or by analogy to the
procedures described in these references
Preferred compounds are 32-deoxorapamycin, 16-pent-2-ynyloxy-32-deoxorapamycin, 16-pent-2
ynyloxy-32(S)-dihydro-rapamycin, 16-pent-2-ynyloxy-32(S)-dihydro-40-0-(2-hydroxyethyl)
rapamycin and, more preferably, 40-0-(2-hydroxyethyl)-rapamycin (referred thereafter as
Compound A), disclosed as Example 8 in WO 94/09010.
Compounds of formula I have, on the basis of observed activity, e.g. binding to macrophilin-12
(also known as FK-506 binding protein or FKBP-12), e.g. as described in WO 94/09010, WO
95/16691 or WO 96/41807, been found to be useful e.g. as immunosuppressant, e.g. in the
treatment of acute allograft rejection. It has now been found that Compounds of formula I have
potent antiproliferative properties which make them useful

                                                 -2
 for cancer chemotherapy, particularly of solid tumors, especially of advanced solid tumors.
 There is still the need to expand the armamentarium of cancer treatment of solid tumors,
 especially in cases where treatment with anticancer compounds is not associated with
 disease regression or stabilization.
 In accordance with the particular findings of the present invention, there is provided:
 1.1   A method for treating solid tumors in a subject in need thereof, comprising
       administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of
       formula 1.
 1.2   A method for inhibiting growth of solid tumors in a subject in need thereof, comprising
       administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of
       formula 1.
 1.3   A method for inducing tumor regression, e.g. tumor mass reduction, in a subject in
       need thereof, comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective
       amount of a compound of formula 1.
 1.4 A method for treating solid tumor invasiveness or symptoms associated with such
       tumor growth in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to said subject a
       therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I.
 1.5 A method for preventing metastatic spread of tumours or for preventing or inhibiting
       growth of micrometastasis in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to
       said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula 1.
By "solid tumors" are meant tumors and/or metastasis (whereever located) other than
lymphatic cancer, e.g. brain and other central nervous system tumors (eg. tumors of the
meninges, brain, spinal cord, cranial nerves and other parts of central nervous system, e.g.
glioblastomas or medulla blastomas); head and/or neck cancer; breast tumors; circulatory
system tumors (e.g. heart, mediastinum and pleura, and other intrathoracic organs, vascular
tumors and tumor-associated vascular tissue); excretory system tumors (e.g. kidney, renal
pelvis, ureter, bladder, other and unspecified urinary organs); gastrointestinal tract tumors
(e.g. oesophagus, stomach, small intestine, colon, colorectal, rectosigmoid junction, rectum,
anus and anal canal), tumors involving the liver and intrahepatic bile ducts, gall bladder,
other and unspecified parts of biliary tract, pancreas, other and digestive organs); head and
neck; oral cavity (lip, tongue, gum, floor of mouth, palate, and other parts of mouth, parotid
gland, and other parts of the salivary glands, tonsil, oropharynx, nasopharynx, pyriform
sinus, hypopharynx, and other sites in the lip, oral cavity and pharynx); reproductive system
tumors (e.g. vulva, vagina, Cervix uteri, Corpus uteri, uterus, ovary, and other sites

                                                -3
associated with female genital organs, placenta, penis, prostate, testis, and other sites
associated with male genital organs); respiratory tract tumors (e.g. nasal cavity and middle
ear, accessory sinuses, larynx, trachea, bronchus and lung, e.g. small cell lung cancer or
non-small cell lung cancer); skeletal system tumors (e.g. bone and articular cartilage of
limbs, bone articular cartilage and other sites); skin tumors (e.g. malignant melanoma of the
skin, non-melanoma skin cancer, basal cell carcinoma of skin, squamous cell carcinoma of
skin, mesothelioma, Kaposi's sarcoma); and tumors involving other tissues incluing
peripheral nerves and autonomic nervous system, connective and soft tissue,
retroperitoneum and peritoneum, eye and adnexa, thyroid, adrenal gland and other
endocrine glands and related structures, secondary and unspecified malignant neoplasm of
lymph nodes, secondary malignant neoplasm of respiratory and digestive systems and
secondary malignant neoplasm of other sites.
Where hereinbefore and subsequently a tumor, a tumor disease, a carcinoma or a cancer is
mentioned, also metastasis in the original organ or tissue and/or in any other location are
implied alternatively or in addition, whatever the location of the tumor and/or metastasis is.
In a series of further specific or alternative embodiments, the present invention also provides
1.6   A method for the treatment of a disease associated with deregulated angiogenesis in a
      subject in need thereof, comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically
      effective amount of rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g. CC1779, ABT578 or a
      compound of formula 1.
1.7 A method for inhibiting or controlling deregulated angiogenesis in a subject in need
      thereof, comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of
      rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g. CC1779, ABT578 or a compound of formula 1.
1.8 A method for enhancing the activity of a chemotherapeutic agent or for overcoming
      resistance to a chemotherapeutic agent in a subject in need thereof, comprising
      administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of rapamycin or a
      derivative thereof, e.g. CC1779, ABT578 or a compound of formula 1,either
      concomitantly or sequentially with said chemotherapeutic agent.
1.9 A method according to 1.8 wherein the chemotherapeutic agent is an inhibitor of signal
      transduction pathways directed either against host cells or processes involved in tumor
      formation and/or metastases formation or utilised by tumour cells for proliferation,
      survival, differentiation or development of drug resistance.

                                                -4
 1.10 A method as indicated above, wherein rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g. CC1779,
      ABT578 or a compound of formula I is administered intermittently.
CC1779 is a rapamycin derivative, i.e. 40- [3-hydroxy-2-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methylpropa
noate]-rapamycin or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and is disclosed e.g. in USP
5,362,718. ABT578 is a 40-substituted rapamycin derivative further comprising a diene
reduction.
Examples of diseases associated with deregulated angiogenesis include without limitation
e.g. neoplastic diseases, e.g. solid tumors. Angiogenesis is regarded as a prerequisite for
those tumors which grow beyond a certain diameter, e.g. about 1-2 mm.
In a series of further specific or alternative embodiments, the present invention also
provides:
2.1   A compound of formula I for use in any method as defined under 1.1 to 1.5 above.
2.2    Rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g. CC1779, ABT578 or a compound of formula I
      for use in any method as defined under 1.6 to 1.10 above or 7 below.
3.1   A compound of formula I for use in the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for
      use in any method as defined under 1.1 to 1.5 above.
3.2   Rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g. CC1779, ABT578 or a compound of formula I
      for use in the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for use in any method as
      defined under 1.6 to 1.10 above or 7 below.
4.1   A pharmaceutical composition for use in any method as defined under 1.1 to 1.5 above
      comprising a compound of formula I together with one or more pharmaceutically
      acceptable diluents or carriers therefor.
4.2 A pharmaceutical composition for use in any method as defined under 1.6 to 1.10
      above or 7 below comprising rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g. CC1779, ABT578
      or a compound of formula I, e.g. Compound A, together with one or more
      pharmaceutically acceptable diluents or carriers therefor.
5.1   A pharmaceutical combination comprising a) a first agent which is rapamycin or a
      derivative thereof, e.g. CC1779, ABT578 or a compound of formula 1,e.g. Compound
      A, and b) a co-agent which is a chemotherapeutic agent, e.g. as defined hereinafter.
5.2 A pharmaceutical combination comprising an amount of a) a first agent which is
      rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g. CC1779, ABT578 or a compound of formula 1,
      e.g. Compound A, and b) a co-agent which is a chemotherapeutic agent selected from

                                               -5
      the compounds defined under paragraph (iv) or (v) below, to produce a synergistic
      therapeutic effect.
6.    A method as defined above comprising co-administration, e.g. concomitantly or in
      sequence, of a therapeutically effective amount of rapamycin or a derivative thereof,
      e.g. CCI779, ABT578 or a compound of formula I, e.g. Compound A, and a second
      drug substance, said second drug substance being a chemotherapeutic agent, e.g. as
      indicated hereinafter.
7.    A method for treating post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorders or a lymphatic
      cancer, e.g. for treating tumor invasiveness or symptoms associated with such tumor
      growth in a subject in need thereof, comprising co-administering to said subject, e.g.
      concomitantly or in sequence, of rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g. CC1779,
      ABT578 or a compound of formula I, e.g. Compound A, and a second drug substance,
      said second drug substance being a chemotherapeutic agent, e.g. as indicated
      hereinafter.
By "lymphatic cancer" are meant e.g. tumors of blood and lymphatic system (e.g. Hodgkin's
disease, Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Burkitt's lymphoma, AIDS-related lymphomas, malignant
immunoproliferative diseases, multiple myeloma and malignant plasma cell neoplasms,
lymphoid leukemia, myeloid leukemia, acute or chronic lymphocytic leukemia, monocytic
leukemia, other leukemias of specified cell type, leukemia of unspecified cell type, other and
unspecified malignant neoplasms of lymphoid, haematopoietic and related tissues, for
example diffuse large cell lymphoma, T-cell lymphoma or cutaneous T-cell lymphoma).
By the term "chemotherapeutic agent" is meant especially any chemotherapeutic agent other
than rapamycin or a derivative thereof. It includes but is not limited to,
i.    an aromatase inhibitor,
ii.   an antiestrogen, an anti-androgen (especially in the case of prostate cancer) or a
      gonadorelin agonist,
iii.  a topoisomerase I inhibitor or a topoisomerase 11inhibitor,
iv.   a microtubule active agent, an alkylating agent, an antineoplastic antimetabolite or a
      platin compound,
v.    a compound targeting/decreasing a protein or lipid kinase activity or a protein or lipid
      phosphatase activity, a further anti-angiogenic compound or a compound which
      induces cell differentiation processes,
vi.   a bradykinin I receptor or an angiotensin Il antagonist,

                                                  -6
 vii.  a cyclooxygenase inhibitor, a bisphosphonate, a histone deacetylase inhibitor, a
       heparanase inhibitor (prevents heparan sulphate degradation), e.g. PI-88, a biological
       response modifier, preferably a lymphokine or interferons, e.g. interferon y, an
       ubiquitination inhibitor, or an inhibitor which blocks anti-apoptotic pathways,
viii. an inhibitor of Ras oncogenic isoforms, e.g. H-Ras, K-Ras or N-Ras, or a farnesyl
       transferase inhibitor, e.g. L-744,832 or DK8G557,
 ix.   a telomerase inhibitor, e.g. telomestatin,
x.     a protease inhibitor, a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor, a methionine aminopeptidase
       inhibitor, e.g. bengamide or a derivative thereof, or a proteosome inhibitor, e.g.
       PS-341.
The term "aromatase inhibitor" as used herein relates to a compound which inhibits the
 estrogen production, i.e. the conversion of the substrates androstenedione and testosterone
to estrone and estradiol, respectively. The term includes, but is not limited to steroids,
 especially atamestane, exemestane and formestane and, in particular, non-steroids,
especially aminoglutethimide, roglethimide, pyridoglutethimide, trilostane, testolactone,
 ketokonazole, vorozole, fadrozole, anastrozole and letrozole. Exemestane can be
administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark AROMASINTM.
 Formestane can be administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the
trademark LENTARONTM. Fadrozole can be administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed,
e.g. under the trademark AFEMATm. Anastrozole can be administered, e.g., in the form as it
is marketed, e.g. under the trademark ARIMIDEXTM. Letrozole can be administered, e.g., in
the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark FEMARATM or FEMAR TM
Aminoglutethimide can be administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the
trademark ORIMETENTm. A combination of the invention comprising a chemotherapeutic
agent which is an aromatase inhibitor is particularly useful for the treatment of hormone
receptor positive tumors, e.g. breast tumors.
The term "antiestrogen" as used herein relates to a compound which antagonizes the effect
of estrogens at the estrogen receptor level. The term includes, but is not limited to
tamoxifen, fulvestrant, raloxifene and raloxifene hydrochloride. Tamoxifen can be
administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark NOLVADEXTM.
Raloxifene hydrochloride can be administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under
the trademark EVISTAT. Fulvestrant can be formulated as disclosed in US 4,659,516 or it
can be administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark

                                                 -7
 FASLODEXTM. A combination of the invention comprising a chemotherapeutic agent which is
 an antiestrogen is particularly useful for the treatment of estrogen receptor positive tumors,
 e.g. breast tumors.
 The term "anti-androgen" as used herein relates to any substance which is capable of
 inhibiting the biological effects of androgenic hormones and includes, but is not limited to,
 bicalutamide (CASODEX TM ), which can be formulated, e.g. as disclosed in US 4,636,505.
 The term "gonadorelin agonist" as used herein includes, but is not limited to abarelix,
 goserelin and goserelin acetate. Goserelin is disclosed in US 4,100,274 and can be
 administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark ZOLADEX TM.
Abarelix can be formulated, eg. as disclosed in US 5,843,901.
The term "topoisomerase I inhibitor" as used herein includes, but is not limited to topotecan,
 irinotecan, 9-nitrocamptothecin and the macromolecular camptothecin conjugate PNU
 166148 (compound Al in W099/17804). Irinotecan can be administered, e.g. in the form as
 it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark CAMPTOSAR TM. Topotecan can be administered,
e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark HYCAMTINTM.
The term "topoisomerase 1iinhibitor" as used herein includes, but is not limited to the
anthracyclines such as doxorubicin (including liposomal formulation, e.g. CAELYXT"),
daunorubicin, epirubicin, idarubicin and nemorubicin, the anthraquinones mitoxantrone and
losoxantrone, and the podophillotoxines etoposide and teniposide. Etoposide can be
administered, e.g. in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark ETOPOPHOSTM.
Teniposide can be administered, e.g. in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark
VM 26-BRISTOLT Doxorubicin can be administered, e.g. in the form as it is marketed, e.g.
under the trademark ADRIBLASTIN TM . Epirubicin can be administered, e.g. in the form as it
is marketed, e.g. under the trademark FARMORUBICINTM. Idarubicin can be administered,
e.g. in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark ZAVEDOSTm. Mitoxantrone can
be administered, e.g. in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark
NOVANTRONTm.
The term "microtubule active agent' relates to microtubule stabilizing and microtubule
destabilizing agents including, but not limited to taxanes, e.g. paclitaxel and docetaxel, vinca
alkaloids, e.g., vinblastine, especially vinblastine sulfate, vincristine especially vincristine
sulfate, and vinorelbine, discodermolides and epothilones and derivatives thereof, e.g.
epothilone B or a derivative thereof. Paclitaxel may be administered e.g. in the form as it is

                                                -8
 marketed, e.g. TAXOLM. Docetaxel can be administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed,
e.g. under the trademark TAXOTERETm. Vinblastine sulfate can be administered, e.g., in the
form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark VINBLASTIN R.P.Tm Vincristine sulfate can
be administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark FARMISTINTM.
 Discodermolide can be obtained, e.g., as disclosed in US 5,010,099.
The term "alkylating agent" as used herein includes, but is not limited to cyclophosphamide,
ifosfamide, melphalan or nitrosourea (BCNU or Gliade M ). Cyclophosphamide can be
administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark CYCLOSTINTM.
 Ifosfamide can be administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark
 HOLOXAN TM .
The term "antineoplastic antimetabolite" includes, but is not limited to 5-fluorouracil,
capecitabine, gemcitabine, methotrexate and edatrexate. Capecitabine can be administered,
e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark XELODATM. Gemcitabine can be
administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark GEMZARTM.
The term "platin compound" as used herein includes, but is not limited to carboplatin, cis
platin and oxaliplatin. Carboplatin can be administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed,
e.g. under the trademark CARBOPLAT TM . Oxaliplatin can be administered, e.g., in the form
as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark ELOXATINTM.
The term "compounds targeting/decreasing a protein or lipid kinase activity or further anti
angiogenic compounds" as used herein includes, but is not limited to protein tyrosine kinase
and/or serine and/or threonine kinase inhibitors or lipid kinase inhibitors, e.g. compounds
targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of the epidermal growth factor family of
receptor tyrosine kinases (EGFR, ErbB2, ErbB3, ErbB4 as homo- or heterodimers), the
vascular endothelial growth factor family of receptor tyrosine kinases (VEGFR), the platelet
derived growth factor-receptors (PDGFR), the fibroblast growth factor-receptors (FGFR), the
insulin-like growth factor receptor I (IGF-1R), the Trk receptor tyrosine kinase family, the Axi
receptor tyrosine kinase family, the Ret receptor tyrosine kinase, the Kit/SCFR receptor
tyrosine kinase, members of the c-AbI family and their gene-fusion products (e.g. BCR-Abl),
members of the protein kinase C (PKC) and Raf family of serine/threonine kinases,
members of the MEK, SRC, JAK, FAK, PDK or PI(3) kinase family, or of the PI(3)-kinase
related kinase family, and/or members of the cyclin-dependent kinase family (CDK) and anti
angiogenic compounds having another mechanism for their activity, e.g. unrelated to protein
or lipid kinase inhibition.

                                                -9
Compounds which target, decrease or inhibit the activity of VEGFR are especially
compounds, proteins or antibodies which inhibit the VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase, inhibit a
VEGF receptor or bind to VEGF, and are in particular those compounds, proteins or
 monoclonal antibodies generically and specifically disclosed in WO 98/35958, e.g. 1-(4
chloroanilino)-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
e.g. the succinate, or in WO 00109495, WO 00/27820, WO 00/59509, WO 98/11223, WO
00/27819 and EP 0 769 947; those as described by M. Prewett et al in Cancer Research 59
 (1999) 5209-5218, by F. Yuan et al in Proc. NatI. Acad. Sci. USA, vol. 93, pp. 14765-14770,
 Dec. 1996, by Z. Zhu et al in Cancer Res. 58, 1998, 3209-3214, and by J. Mordenti et al in
Toxicologic Pathology, Vol. 27, no. 1, pp 14-21, 1999; in WO 00/37502 and WO 94/10202;
AngiostatinT M , described by M. S. O'Reilly et al, Cell 79, 1994, 315-328; EndostatinTM
described by M. S. O'Reilly et al, Cell 88, 1997, 277-285; anthranilic acid amides; ZD4190;
ZD6474; SU5416; SU6668; or anti-VEGF antibodies or anti-VEGF receptor antibodies,e.g.
RhuMab.
By antibody is meant intact monoclonal antibodies, polyclonal antibodies, multispecific
antibodies formed from at least 2 intact antibodies, and antibodies fragments so long as they
exhibit the desired biological activity.
Compounds which target, decrease or inhibit the activity of the epidermal growth factor
receptor family are especially compounds, proteins or antibodies which inhibit members of
the EGF receptor tyrosine kinase family, e.g. EGF receptor, ErbB2, ErbB3 and ErbB4 or bind
to EGF or EGF related ligands, and are in particular those compounds, proteins or
monoclonal antibodies generically and specifically disclosed in WO 97/02266, e.g. the
compound of ex. 39, or in EP 0 564 409, WO 99/03854, EP 0520722, EP 0 566 226, EP 0
787 722, EP 0 837 063, US 5,747,498, WO 98/10767, WO 97/30034, WO 97/49688, WO
97/38983 and, especially, WO 96/30347 (e.g. compound known as CP 358774), WO
96/33980 (e.g. compound ZD 1839) and WO 95/03283 (e.g. compound ZM105180); e.g.
trastuzumab (HerpetinR), cetuximab, Iressa, OSI-774, C1-1033, EKB-569, GW-2016, E1.,
E2.4, E2.5, E6.2, E6.4, E2.1 1, E6.3 or E7.6.3.
Compounds which target, decrease or inhibit the activity of PDGFR are especially
compounds which inhibit the PDGF receptor, e.g. a N-phenyl-2-pyrimidine-amine derivative,
e.g. imatinib.

                                               - 10
Compounds which target, decrease or inhibit the activity of c-Abl family members and their
gene fusion products, e.g. a N-phenyl-2-pyrimidine-amine derivative, e.g. imatinib;
PD180970; AG957; or NSC 680410.
Compounds which target, decrease or inhibit the activity of protein kinase C, Raf, MEK,
SRC, JAK, FAK and PDK family members, or Pi(3) kinase or Pi(3) kinase-related family
members, and/or members of the cyclin-dependent kinase family (CDK) are especially those
staurosporine derivatives disclosed in EP 0 296 110, e.g. midostaurin; examples of further
compounds include e.g. UCN-01, safingol, BAY 43-9006, Bryostatin 1, Perifosine;
 Ilmofosine; RO 318220 and RO 320432; GO 6976; Isis 3521; or LY333531/LY379196.
Further anti-angiogenic compounds are e.g. thalidomide (THALOMID) and TNP-470.
Compounds which target, decrease or inhibit the activity of a protein or lipid phosphatase are
e.g. inhibitors of phosphatase 1, phosphatase 2A, PTEN or CDC25, e.g. okadaic acid or a
derivative thereof.
Compounds which induce cell differentiation processes are e.g. retinoic acid, a-, y- or 8
tocopherol or a-, y- or S-tocotrienol.
The term cyclooxygenase inhibitor as used herein includes, but is not limited to, e.g.
celecoxib (CelebrexR), rofecoxib (VIoxxR), etoricoxib, valdecoxib or a 5-alkyl-2
arylaminophenylacetic acid, e.g. 5-methyl-2-(2'-chloro-6'-fluoroanilino)pheny acetic acid.
The term "histone deacetylase inhibitor" as used herein includes, but is not limited to MS-27
275, SAHA, pyroxamide, FR-901228 or valproic acid.
The term "bisphosphonates" as used herein includes, but is not limited to, etridonic,
clodronic, tiludronic, pamidronic, alendronic, ibandronic, risedronic and zoledronic acid.
"Etridonic acid" can be administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the
trademark DIDRONELTm. "Clodronic acid" can be administered, e.g., in the form as it is
marketed, e.g. under the trademark BONEFOSTm. "Tiludronic acid" can be administered,
e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark SKELIDTM. "Pamidronic acid"
can be administered, e.g. in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark AREDIATM.
"Alendronic acid" can be administered, e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the
trademark FOSAMAXTm. "Ibandronic acid" can be administered, e.g., in the form as it is
marketed, e.g. under the trademark BONDRANATTm. "Risedronic acid" can be administered,
e.g., in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark ACTONELTM. "Zoledronic acid"
can be administered, e.g. in the form as it is marketed, e.g. under the trademark ZOMETATm

                                                - 11
The term "matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor" as used herein includes, but is not limited to
collagen peptidomimetic and nonpetidomimetic inhibitors, tetracycline derivatives, e.g.
hydroxamate peptidomimetic inhibitor batimastat and its orally bioavailable analogue
marimastat, prinomastat, BMS-279251, BAY 12-9566, TAA211 or AAJ996.
In each case where citations of patent applications or scientific publications are given, the
subject-matter relating to the compounds is hereby incorporated into the present application
by reference. Comprised are likewise the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, the
corresponding racemates, diastereoisomers, enantiomers, tautomers as well as the
corresponding crystal modifications of above disclosed compounds where present, e.g.
solvates, hydrates and polymorphs, which are disclosed therein. The compounds used as
active ingredients in the combinations of the invention can be prepared and administered as
described in the cited documents, respectively. Also within the scope of this invention is the
combination of more than two separate active ingredients as set forth above, i.e. a
pharmaceutical combination within the scope of this invention could include three active
ingredients or more. Further both the first agent and the co-agent are not the identical
ingredient.
Utility of the compounds of formula I in treating solid tumors as hereinabove specified, may
be demonstrated in animal test methods as well as in clinic, for example in accordance with
the methods hereinafter described.
A.      In Vitro
A.1    Antiproliferative activity in combination with other agents
       A cell line, e.g. the compound A resistant A549 line (IC50 in low nM range) versus the
comparative Compound A resistant KB-31 and HCT1 16 lines (IC5o in the pM range), is added
to 96-well plates (1,500 cells/well in 100 pl medium) and incubated for 24 hr. Subsequently, a
two-fold dilution series of each compound (Compound of formula I or a known
chemotherapeutic agent) is made in separate tubes (starting at 8 x the IC50 of each
compound) either alone or in paired combinations, and the dilutions are added to the wells.
The cells are then re-incubated for 3 days. Methylene blue staining is performed on day 4
and the amount of bound dye (proportional to the number of surviving cells that bind the dye)
determined. ICwos are subsequently determined using the Calcusyn program, which provides
a measure of the interaction, namely the so-called non-exclusive combination index (Cl),
where: Cl - I = the interaction is nearly additive; 0.85 - 0.9 = slight synergism; < 0.85 =
synergy. In this assay, the compounds of formula I show interesting antiproliferative activity

                                                 -12
 in combination with another chemotherapeutic agent. For example the following Cl values
are obtained with a combination of Compound A and cisplatinum, paclitaxel, gemcitabine and
doxorubicin, showing synergistic effects.
                                                         Cl
               Cell line   Cisplatinum       Paclitaxel      Gemcitabine    Doxorubicin
                KB-31         0.74              0.9             0.79            0.7
                A549          0.47             0.74             0.76            0.64
               HCT116         0.47              0.3              0.9           0.52
 Furthermore, in this assay, Compound A potentiates the loss of A549 cell viability and cell
death when it is used in combination with gemcitabine.
A.2    Antiangiogenic activity
       In vitro assay of the antiproliferative activity of rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g.
Compound A, against human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) demonstrates IC50
values of 120 ± 22 pM and 841 ± 396, and > 10 000 pM for VEGF- and bFGF- and FBS
stimulated proliferation, respectively. Additionally, no significant effects of Compound A on
bFGF-stimulated normal human dermal fibroblast (NHDF) proliferation are observed over the
same concentration range. These results indicate that Compound A inhibits the proliferation
of HUVECs, being particularly potent against the VEGF-induced proliferation, VEGF being a
key pro-angiogenic factor.
B.     In Vivo
In the following assays, antitumor activity is expressed as T/C% (mean increase in tumor
volumes of treated animals divided by the mean increase of tumor volumes of control
animals multiplied by 100) and % regressions (tumor volume minus initial tumor volume
divided by the initial tumor volume and multiplied by 100).
B.1   Activity in A549 human lung tumor xenografts
      Fragments of A549 tumors (approx. 25 mg; derived from Cell line CCL 185, ATCC,
Rockville MD, USA) are transplanted subcutaneously into the left flank of BALB/c nude mice.
Treatment is started on day 7 or day 12 following tumor transplantation. The compound to be
tested is administered p.o. once per day from day 7/12 to day 38/55, respectively. In this

                                               -13
assay, when administered at a daily dose ranging from 0.1 mg/kg to 2.5 mg/kg, the
compounds of formula I exhibit dose-dependent inhibition of tumor growth; for example in
one representative experiment Compound A when administered at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg
 results in persisting regressions (41 %); a dose of 0.5 mg/kg results in transient regressions
 (38 % on day 17), with a final TIC of 16 %, and a dose of 0.1 mg/kg slows tumor growth
 resulting in a final T/C of 43 % (T/C for control animals is 100%).
 B.2 Activity in KB-31 human epidermoid tumor xenografts
      Fragments of KB-31 tumors (approx. 25 mg; derived from the cell lines obtained from
 Roswell Park Memorial Institute Buffalo, NY, USA) are transplanted subcutaneously into the
left flank of BALB/c nude mice. Treatment is started on day 7 or on day 10 following tumor
transplantation. The compound to be tested is administered p.o. once per day from day 7/10
to day 25/35, respectively. Antitumor activity is expressed as T/C% as indicated above. In
this assay, when administered at a daily dose ranging from 0.5 mg/kg to 2.5 mg/kg, the
compounds of formula I inhibit tumor growth; for example in one representative experiment
Compound A when administered at a dose of 2,5 mg/kg/day results in a final T/C cvalue of
25%(T/C for control animals is 100%).
B.3     Activity in CA20948 rat pancreatic tumors
        Tumors are established in male Lewis rats by subcutaneous injection of CA20948
tumor cell suspension derived from donor rats into the left flank. Treatment is started on day
4 post inoculation. The compound to be tested is administered p.o. once per day (6 days a
week) from day 4 to day 9-15 post inoculation. Antitumor activity is expressed as T/C% as
indicated above. In this assay, when administered at a daily dose of 0.5 mg/kg to 2.5 mg/kg,
the compounds of formula I inhibit tumor growth; for example in a representative experiment
Compound A when administered p.o. at a daily dose of 2.5 mg/kg results in a final T/C value
of 23 %. In the same experiment, intermittent administration of Compound A, 5mg/kg twice
per week, results in a final T/C value of 32%. Compound A significantly and consistently
decreases in these assays the rate of CA20948 pancreatic tumor growth when compared to
vehicle controls (T/C for control animals is defined as 100%).
Compounds of formula 1,e.g. Compound A, have been tested in further tumor models in
accordance with the procedure as disclosed above. For example, a daily dosage of 2.5
mg/kg or 5 mg/kg Compound A produces final T/Cs of 18% and 9% when administered to
the human NCI H-596 lung tumor model and the human MEXF 989 melanoma tumor model,
respectively; 5 mg/kg produces final T/Cs of 20% (primary tumor) and 36% (cervical lymph

                                                -14
node metastases) when administered to the orthotopic mouse B16/BL6 melanoma tumor
model and 24% when administered to the human AR42J pancreatic tumor model; 2.5 mg/kg
produces a final T/C of 28% when administered to the multi-drug resistant (MDR) human KB
8511 epidermoid tumor model. Good antitumor responses are also obtained when
compounds of formula I, e.g. Compound A, are administered intermittently, e.g. 2
subsequent days per week or twice a week, to mice transplanted with human AR42J
pancreatic tumors.
B.4    Combination with doxorubicin
       Mice transplanted with human KB-31 epidermoid tumors are treated for 21 days with
doxorubicin at a dose of 5 mg/kg i.v. once per week, a compound of formula I, e.g.
Compound A, at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg p.o once per day, or a combination of both. Thereafter
compound of formula I treatment alone is continued in the combination group in order to
determine if the compound of formula I can suppress the outgrowth of tumors that respond
to conventional agents. Antitumor activity is expressed as T/C% or % regressions as
indicated above. For example, the combination of Compound A and doxorubicin produces
greater antitumor effect (74 % regressions) as compared to either agent alone (Compound
A, T/C 32 %;doxorubicin 44 % regressions). No exacerbation of the body weight losses
caused by doxorubicin occurrs when Compound A treatment is added. Continuing
Compound A treatment in the combination group, after ceasing doxorubicin, inhibits tumor
outgrowth such that the tumor volumes of the doxorubicin monotherapy group are
significantly larger than those of the combination group. Morever the combination appears to
produce a greater cure rate (8/8 tumors) at 14 days post end of treatment than doxorubicin
alone (3/8 tumors).
B.5    Combination with cisplatinum
       Mice transplanted with human NCI H-596 lung tumors are treated for 21 days with
cisplatinum at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg i.v. once per week, a compound of formula I, e.g.
Compound A, at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg p.o. once per day, or a combination of both. Antitumor
activity is expressed as T/C% or % regressions as indicated above. A combination of
Compound A and cisplatinum produces a greater antitumor effect (5% regressions) as
compared to either agent alone (Compound A, T/C 26%; cisplatinum, T/C 26%). The
combination did not lead to worsened tolerability.
B.6 Antiangiogenic activity
       B16/BL6 cells (5 X10 4) are injected intradermally into the ear of C57BL/6 mice. Seven

                                                 -15
days later treatment with rapamycin or a derivative thereof e.g. Compound A, or vehicle is
initiated. Primary tumor and cervical lymph nodes are collected after two weeks of daily
treatment for measurement of vessel density. Endothelium of perfused vessels in the tumors
is visualized using a nuclear staining dye (Hoechst 33342, 20 mg/kg) that is injected i.v.
shortly before killing the mice. Tumors and metastases are snap frozen and sections
examined under a light microscope equipped with an epifluorescent source. The
fluorescence H33342-labelled endothelium cells is used to measure vessel number and size
over the whole tumor section. Vessels are assigned to groups of 10 pm-size range.
Distribution of vessel size is assessed using a histogram frequency analysis. At a dose of 5
mg/kg p.o., rapamycin or a derivative thereof reduces vessel density in both the primary
tumor (e.g. T/C 50 % for Compound A) and the metastases (e.g.T/C 40 % for Compound A)
as compared to controls. Rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g. Compound A, also changes
vessel size distribution in the metastases.
B.7 Combination with an antiangiogenic agent
        B16/BL6 cells (5 X10 4 ) are injected intradermally into the ear of C57BL/6 mice. Seven
days later treatment with rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g. Compound A, a VEGF
receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, e.g. 1-(4-chloroanilino)-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine or a
salt thereof, e.g. the succinate, or a combination of both is initiated and effects on the growth
and weight of the primary tumor and cervical lymph node metastases are monitored,
respectively. Daily administration of the antiangiogenic agent (100 mg/kg p.o.) or of
rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g. Compound A, (1 mg/kg p.o.) alone, reduces the size
of the primary tumor (final T/C: 65 % and 74 %, respectively), whereas the combination of
these two agents is synergistic (T/C 12 %). Rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g.
Compound A and the antiangiogenic agent treatment alone reduces cervical lymph node
weights (related to regional metastases) (T/C: 75 % and 34 %, respectively), and the
combination further reduces lymph node weights (T/C 13 %). The treatments significantly
promote body weight gains as compared to controls. For the primary tumors, analysis of
possible interaction shows synergy with Compound A and antiangiogenic agent as
antiangiogenic agent /controls = 0.66; Compound A/controls = 0.77; Compound A and
antiangiogenic agent /controls = 0.135. As Compound A and antiangiogenic agent /controls
< Compound A/controls x antiangiogenic agent /controls (0.51), this is defined as synergy.
For the metastases, analysis also shows synergy with Compound A and the antiangiogenic
agent as antiangiogenic agent /controls = 0.337; Compound A/controls = 0.75; Compound A
and antiangiogenic agent /controls = 0.122. As Compound A and antiangiogenic agent

                                               - 16
/controls < Compound A/controls x antiangiogenic agent /controls (0.252), this is also
defined as synergy (Clark, Breast Cancer Research Treatment 1997;46:255).
C.     Clinical Trial
C.1   Investigation of clinical benefit of a compound of formula 1, e.g. Compound A as
monotherapy in solid tumours
Aim of the study: To identify the optimal dose of said compound, given orally once weekly, in
      a dose escalating study and the efficacy of the optimal dosage in solid tumours.
The study is divided into 2 parts:
Part 1:
Primary Aim: Identify the optimal dose of a compound of formula I, e.g. Compound A, given
      p.o. once weekly, assuming this should be the minimum dose associated with
      prolonged inhibition of mTOR and blood levels of said compound at least equivalent to
      those achieving an anti-tumor effect in in-vivo preclinical levels.
Secondary Aim: Assess safety of said compound when given alone to cancer patients and
      assess changes in tumor metabolic activity.
Design: Successive groups of 4 patients with advanced malignant solid tumors, refractory or
      resistant to standard therapies to receive a compound of formula 1,e.g. Compound A,
      every 7 days different doses (group I to receive 5 mg; group 2 to receive 10 mg, group
      3 to receive 20 mg) for 4 weeks. In week 4, establish the pharmacokinetic profile and
      the profile of mTOR inhibition as reflected by the inhibition of p70s6 kinase in peripheral
      lymphocytes. Carry out comparative 18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron-emission
      tomography (FDG-PET) imaging (before 1" dose, after 3r dose) to explore the change
      in tumor metabolism.
Patients main selection criteria: Adults with advanced-stage (Ill-V) solid tumors, resistant or
      refractory to standard therapies. At least one tumoral lesion should be measurable (>20
      mm in one dimension).
Main variables for evaluation: Safety (adverse events), standard serum biochemistry and
      haematology, blood levels of the compound to be tested, lymphocyte p70-s6kinase
      activity, changes in tumor glucose uptake by FDG-PET.
Part 2:
Primary Aim: Explore the efficacy of a compound of formula 1,e.g. Compound A, in patients
      with advanced solid tumors when given once a week at the optimal dosage, as
      identified in Part 1 as shown by tumor response.
Secondary Aim: Assess the safety of said compound at this dosage.

                                                  -17
 Design: 20 patients with progressing, advanced-stage solid tumors, resistant or refractory to
        standard therapies, to receive said compound at the dosage recommended as a result
        of Part 1. The general clinical state of the patient is investigated weekly by physical and
         laboratory examination. Changes in tumor burden are assessed every 2 months by
         radiological examination. Initially patients receive treatment for 2 months. Thereafter,
        they remain on treatment for as long as their disease does not progress and the drug is
        satisfactorily tolerated.
 Main variables for evaluation: Safety (adverse events), standard serum biochemistry and
        haematology, tumor dimensions by computerised tomographic (CT) scan or magnetic
        resonance imaging (MRI).
 C.2      Combined Treatment
 Suitable clinical studies are, for example, open label non-randomized, dose escalation
studies in patients with advanced solid tumors. Such studies prove in particular the
 synergism of the active ingredients of the combination of the invention. The beneficial effects
 on proliferative diseases can be determined directly through the results of these studies or
 by changes in the study design which are known as such to a person skilled in the art. Such
studies are, in particular, suitable to compare the effects of a monotherapy using the active
 ingredients and a combination of the invention. Preferably, the dose of agent (a) is escalated
 until the Maximum Tolerated Dosage is reached, and the co-agent (b) is administered with a
fixed dose. Alternatively, the agent (a) is administered in a fixed dose and the dose of co-agent
 (b)is escalated. Each patient receives doses of the agent (a) either daily or intermittent. The
efficacy of the treatment can be determined in such studies, e.g., after 12, 18 or 24 weeks by
radiologic evaluation of the tumors every 6 weeks.
Alternatively, a placebo-controlled, double blind study can be used in order to prove the
benefits of the combination of the invention mentioned herein.
Daily dosages required in practicing the method of the present invention when a compound
of formula I alone is used will vary depending upon, for example, the compound used, the
host, the mode of administration and the severity of the condition to be treated. A preferred
daily dosage range is about from 0.1 to 25 mg as a single dose or in divided doses. Suitable
daily dosages for patients are on the order of from e.g. 0.1 to 25 mg p.o. Compound A may
be administered by any conventional route, in particular enterally, e.g. orally, e.g. in the form
of tablets, capsules, drink solutions, nasally, pulmonary (by inhalation) or parenterally, e.g. in
the form of injectable solutions or suspensions. Suitable unit dosage forms for oral

                                                -18
administration comprise from ca. 0.05 to 12.5 mg, usually 0.25 to 10 mg Compound A,
together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable diluents or carriers therefor.
The combination of the invention can also be applied in combination with surgical
intervention, mild prolonged whole body hyperthermia and/or irradiation therapy.
The administration of a pharmaceutical combination of the invention results not only in a
beneficial effect, e.g. a synergistic therapeutic effect, e.g. with regard to slowing down,
arresting or reversing the neoplasm formation or a longer duration of tumor response, but
also in further surprising beneficial effects, e.g. less side-effects, an improved quality of life
or a decreased mortality and morbidity, compared to a monotherapy applying only one of the
pharmaceutically active ingredients used in the combination of the invention, in particular in
the treatment of a tumor that is refractory to other chemotherapeutics known as anti-cancer
agents. In particular, an increased up-take of the co-agent (b) in tumor tissue and tumor cells
is observed, when applied in combination with the first agent (a).
A further benefit is that lower doses of the active ingredients of the combination of the
invention can be used, for example, that the dosages need not only often be smaller but are
also applied less frequently, or can be used in order to diminish the incidence of side-effects,
while controlling the growth of neoplasm formation. This is in accordance with the desires
and requirements of the patients to be treated.
According to one embodiment of the invention, a preferred pharmaceutical combination
comprises
a) a compound of formula I, e.g. Compound A, and
b) as co-agent, one or more compounds as indicated in paragraphs (ii), (iii) or (iv) above,
e.g. carboplatin, cisplatinum, paclitaxel, docetaxel, gemcitabine or doxorubicin.
A synergistic combination of a compound of formula I, e.g. Compound A, with carboplatin,
cisplatinum, paclitaxel, docetaxel, gemcitabine or doxorubicin is particularly preferred.
A further preferred pharmaceutical combination is e.g. a combination comprising
a) rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g. CCI-779, ABT578 or Compound A, and
b) as co-agent, one or more compounds as indicated under paragraphs (i) and (v) to (x)
above, preferably one or more compounds as specified in paragraph (v) above.
Preferred is e.g. a synergistic combination of rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g. CCI
779, ABT578 or Compound A, with a compound which target, decrease or inhibit the activity
of VEGFR, EGFR family, PDGFR, c-ABI family members or protein kinase C, e.g. as
disclosed above.

                                               - 19
One specific embodiment of the invention relates to the use of a combination of the invention
for the prevention, delay of progression or treatment of or for the preparation of a
medicament for the prevention, delay of progression or treatment of breast cancer.
Preferably, in such embodiment the combination comprises as co-agent b) an aromatase
inhibitor, e.g. the aromatase inhibitor letrozole, an anti-estrogen, e.g. tamoxifen, a
topoisomerase 11inhibitor, e.g. doxorubicin, or a microtubule active agent, e.g. paclitaxel.
Another embodiment of the invention relates to the use of a combination of the invention for
the prevention, delay of progression or treatment of or for the preparation of a medicament
for the prevention, delay of progression or treatment of lung cancer. Preferably, in such
embodiment the combination of the invention comprises as co-agent b) a platin compound,
e.g. carboplatin, or a microtubule active agent, e.g. paclitaxel.
Another embodiment of the invention relates to the use of a combination of the invention for
the prevention, delay of progression or treatment of or for the preparation of a medicament
for the prevention, delay of progression or treatment of pancreatic cancer. Preferably, in
such embodiment the combination of the invention comprises as co-agent b) an
antineoplastic antimetabolite, e.g. gemcitabine.
Another embodiment of the invention relates to the use of a combination of the invention for
the prevention, delay of progression or treatment of or for the preparation of a medicament
for the prevention, delay of progression or treatment of glioblastomas. Preferably, in such
embodiment the combination of the invention comprises as co-agent b) an alkylating agent,
e.g. BCNU.
A further embodiment of the invention relates to the use of rapamycin or a derivative thereof
in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of a lymphatic cancer, e.g. as
disclosed above. The combination may additionally comprise as co-agent b) busulfan,
cytarabine, 6-thioguanine, fludarabine, hydroxyurea, procarbazine, bleomycin or
methotrexate. Topoisomerase II inhibitors e,g. daunorubicin or, particularly, compounds
which target, decrease or inhibit the activity of PDGFR or of c-Abl family members and their
gene fusion products, e.g. imatinib are preferred as co-agent (b).
The terms "co-administration" or "combined administration" or the like as utilized herein are
meant to encompass administration of the selected therapeutic agents to a single patient,
and are intended to include treatment regimens in which the agents are not necessarily
administered by the same route of administration or at the same time.

                                                -20
It is one objective of this invention to provide a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
quantity, which is jointly therapeutically effective against a proliferative malignant disease
comprising a combination of the invention. In this composition, the first agent a) and co
agent (b) can be administered together, one after the other or separately in one combined
unit dosage form or in two separate unit dosage forms. The unit dosage form may also be a
fixed combination.
The pharmaceutical compositions for separate administration of the first agent a) and co
agent b) and for the administration in a fixed combination, i.e. a single galenical composition
comprising at least two combination partners a) and b), according to the invention can be
prepared in a manner known per se and are those suitable for enteral, such as oral or rectal,
and parenteral administration to mammals (warm-blooded animals), including humans,
comprising a therapeutically effective amount of at least one pharmacologically active
combination partner alone, e.g. as indicated above, or in combination with one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents, especially suitable for enteral or parenteral
application.
Suitable pharmaceutical compositions contain, for example, from about 0.1 % to about
99.9%, preferably from about 1 % to about 60 %, of the active ingredient(s). Pharmaceutical
preparations for the combination therapy for enteral or parenteral administration are, for
example, those in unit dosage forms, such as sugar-coated tablets, tablets, capsules or
suppositories, or ampoules. If not indicated otherwise, these are prepared in a manner
known per se, for example by means of conventional mixing, granulating, sugar-coating,
dissolving or lyophilizing processes. It will be appreciated that the unit content of a
combination partner contained in an individual dose of each dosage form need not in itself
constitute an effective amount since the necessary effective amount can be reached by
administration of a plurality of dosage units.
In particular, a therapeutically effective amount of each of the combination partner of the
combination of the invention may be administered simultaneously or sequentially and in any
order, and the components may be administered separately or as a fixed combination. For
example, the method of delay of progression or treatment of a proliferative malignant
disease according to the invention may comprise (i) administration of the first agent a) in free
or pharmaceutically acceptable salt form and (ii)administration of a co-agent b) in free or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt form, simultaneously or sequentially in any order, in jointly
therapeutically effective amounts, preferably in synergistically effective amounts, e.g. in daily

                                               -21
or intermittently dosages corresponding to the amounts described herein. The individual
combination partners of the combination of the invention may be administered separately at
different times during the course of therapy or concurrently in divided or single combination
forms. Furthermore, the term administering also encompasses the use of a pro-drug of a
combination partner that convert in vivo to the combination partner as such. The instant
invention is therefore to be understood as embracing all such regimens of simultaneous or
alternating treatment and the term "administering" is to be interpreted accordingly.
The effective dosage of each of the combination partners employed in the combination of
the invention may vary depending on the particular compound or pharmaceutical
composition employed, the mode of administration, the condition being treated, the severity
of the condition being treated. Thus, the dosage regimen of the combination of the invention
is selected in accordance with a variety of factors including the route of administration and
the renal and hepatic function of the patient. A physician, clinician or veterinarian of ordinary
skill can readily determine and prescribe the effective amount of the single active ingredients
required to prevent, counter or arrest the progress of the condition. Optimal precision in
achieving concentration of the active ingredients within the range that yields efficacy without
toxicity requires a regimen based on the kinetics of the active ingredients' availability to
target sites.
Daily dosages for the first agent a) will, of course, vary depending on a variety of factors, for
example the compound chosen, the particular condition to be treated and the desired effect.
In general, however, satisfactory results are achieved on administration of rapamycin or a
derivative thereof at daily dosage rates of the order of ca. 0.1 to 25 mg as a single dose or in
divided doses. Rapamycin or a derivative thereof, e.g. a compound of formula I, may be
administered by any conventional route, in particular enterally, e.g. orally, e.g. in the form of
tablets, capsules, drink solutions or parenterally, e.g. in the form of injectable solutions or
suspensions. Suitable unit dosage forms for oral administration comprise from ca. 0.05 to 10
mg active ingredient, e.g. Compound A, together with one or more pharmaceutically
acceptable diluents or carriers therefor.
Fadrozole may be administered orally to a human in a dosage range varying from about 0.5
to about 10 mg/day, preferably from about I to about 2.5 mg/day. Exemestane may be
administered orally to a human in a dosage range varying from about 5 to about 200 mg/day,
preferably from about 10 to about 25 mg/day, or parenterally from about 50 to 500 mg/day,
preferably from about 100 to about 250 mg/day. If the drug shall be administered in a

                                           -22
separate pharmaceutical composition, it can be administered in the form disclosed in GB
2,177,700. Formestane may be administered parenterally to a human in a dosage range
varying from about 100 to 500 mg/day, preferably from about 250 to about 300 mg/day.
Anastrozole may be administered orally to a human in a dosage range varying from about
0.25 to 20 mg/day, preferably from about 0.5 to about 2.5 mg/day. Aminogluthemide may be
administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 200 to 500 mg/day.
Tamoxifen citrate may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 10
to 40 mg/day.
Vinblastine may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 1.5 to 10
mg/m 2day. Vincristine sulfate may be administered parenterally to a human in a dosage
range varying from about 0.025 to 0.05 mg/kg body weight - week. Vinorelbine may be
administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 10 to 50 mg/m 2day.
Etoposide phosphate may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from
about 25 to 115 mg/m 2day, e.g. 56.8 or 113.6 mg/m 2day.
Teniposide may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 75 to 150
mg about every two weeks. Doxorubicin may be administered to a human in a dosage range
varying from about 10 to 100 mg/m 2day, e.g. 25 or 50 mg/m 2day. Epirubicin may be
administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 10 to 200 mg/m 2day.
Idarubicin may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 0.5 to 50
mg/m 2day. Mitoxantrone may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from
about 2.5 to 25 mg/m 2day.
Paclitaxel may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 50 to 300
mg/m 2day. Docetaxel may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from
about 25 to 100 mg/m 2day.
Cyclophosphamide may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about
50 to 1500 mg/m 2day. Melphalan may be administered to a human in a dosage range
varying from about 0.5 to 10 mg/m 2day.
5-Fluorouracil may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 50 to
1000 mg/m 2day, e.g. 500 mg/m 2day. Capecitabine may be administered to a human in a
dosage range varying from about 10 to 1000 mg/m 2day. Gemcitabine hydrochloride may be
administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 1000 mg/m 2/week.

                                              -23
Methotrexate may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 5 to
500 mg/m 2day.
Topotecan may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 1 to 5
mg/m 2day. Irinotecan may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from
about 50 to 350 mg/m2 day.
Carboplatin may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 200 to
400 mg/m 2 about every four weeks. Cisplatin may be administered to a human in a dosage
range varying from about 25 to 75 mg/m 2 about every three weeks. Oxaliplatin may be
administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 50 to 85 mg/m 2 every two
weeks.
Imatinib may be administered to a human in a dosage in the range of about 2.5 to 850
mg/day, more preferably 5 to 600 mg/day and most preferably 20 to 300 mg/day.
Alendronic acid may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 5 to
 10 mg/day. Clodronic acid may be administered to a human e.g. in a dosage range varying
from about 750 to 1500 mg/day. Etridonic acid may be administered to a hurnan in a dosage
range varying from about 200 to 400 mg/day. lbandronic acid may be administered to a
human in a dosage range varying from about I to 4 mg every three to four weeks.
Risedronic acid may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 20 to
30 mg/day. Pamidronic acid may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying
from about 15 to 90 mg every three to four weeks. Tiludronic acid may be administered to a
human in a dosage range varying from about 200 to 400 mg/day.
Trastuzumab may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about I to 4
mg/m 2/week.
Bicalutamide may be administered to a human in a dosage range varying from about 25 to
50 mg/m 2day.
1-(4-chloroanilino)-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine or salt thereof, e.g. succinate, may be
administered to a human in a dosage range of about 50 to 1500, more preferably about 100
to 750, and most preferably 250 to 500, mg/day.
Rapamycin or derivatives thereof are well tolerated at dosages required for use in
accordance with the present invention. For example, the NTEL for Compound A in a 4-week
toxicity study is 0.5 mg/kg/day in rats and 1.5 mg/kg/day in monkeys.

I: \rbr\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16171592_l.DOC-14 12/2017
                                                            - 23a
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it),
 or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
 admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from
 it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour
to which this specification relates.
Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
 otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will
 be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or
 steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.

                                                                  -24
CLAIMS
1.     Use of a compound of formula 1
                                     41
                    R2         1
                              %0-o          42
                                    38      37 3
                                       39      35    33
                               5 43       ,          4    32   31   3
                                                H         XH           28 O
                            6    N      2
                           10     OHor            R
                        11        9               R,   18       20 2D       24
           o5C3alyn34
       R13 isCH         12         14           6                         2
                              13        15                  19      21
wherein
R1 is CH3 or Cmaikynyl,
R2 is H or -CH2-CH2-OH, and
X is =0, (H,H) or (H-,0H-1)
provided that R2 is other than H when X is =O and R1 is CH3,
in the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for use in the treatment of solid tumors.
2.    Use of a compound of formula I according to claim 1 in the preparation of a
pharmaceutical composition for use in the treatment of solid tumor invasiveness or
symptoms associated with such tumor growth.
3.    Use of rapamycin or a rapamycin derivative in the preparation of a pharmaceutical
composition for use to inhibit or control deregulated angiogenesis.
4.    A pharmaceutical composition for use in the treatment of solid tumors comprising a
compound of formula I as defined in claim 1, together with one or more pharmaceutically
acceptable diluents or carriers therefor.
5.    A pharmaceutical composition for use in the inhibition or controlling of deregulated
angiogenesis comprising rapamycin or a rapamycin derivative, together with one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable diluents or carriers therefor.
6.    A pharmaceutical combination comprising a) a compound of formula I as defined in
claim 1 and b) a co-agent which is a chemotherapeutic agent.

                                                -25
7.     A pharmaceutical combination according to claim 6 wherein the co-agent is selected
from
i.     an aromatase inhibitor,
ii.    an antiestrogen, an anti-androgen or a gonadorelin agonist,
iii.   a topoisomerase I inhibitor or a topoisomerase i inhibitor,
iv.    a microtubule active agent, an alkylating agent, an antineoplastic antimetabolite or a
       platin compound,
v.     a compound targeting/decreasing a protein or lipid kinase activity or a protein or lipid
       phosphatase activity, a further anti-angiogenic compound or a compound which
       induces cell differentiation processes,
vi.    a bradykinin 1 receptor or an angiotensin 11antagonist,
vii.   a cyclooxygenase inhibitor, a bisphosphonate, a histone deacetylase inhibitor, a
       heparanase inhibitor, a biological response modifier, an ubiquitination inhibitor, or an
       inhibitor which blocks anti-apoptotic pathways,
viii. an inhibitor of Ras oncogenic isoforms,
ix.   a telomerase inhibitor, and
x.     a protease inhibitor, a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor, a methionine aminopeptidase
inhibitor, or a proteosome inhibitor.
8.     A pharmaceutical combination comprising a) rapamycin or a rapamycin derivative and
b) a co-agent which is a chemotherapeutic agent selected from those listed under
paragraphs (i.) and (v.) to (x.) as specified in claim 7.
9.    A method for treating solid tumors in a subject in need thereof, comprising
administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I
as defined in claim 1, optionally concomitantly or sequentially with a chemotherapeutic
agent.
10.   A method for inhibiting or controlling deregulated angiogenesis in a subject in need
thereof, comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically affective amount of
rapamycin or a rapamycin derivative, optionally concomitantly or sequentially with a
chemotherapeutic agent.

