                                                       10
ABSTRACT
The present disclosure relates to a method of preparing a strain liquid through the fermentation of olives,
a strain liquid obtained thereby, and uses of the strain liquid. The strain liquid can find use in health care,
particularly in alleviation or improvement of cough, hyperuricemia, gastritis, light hair loss, breast
hyperplasia, aphtha, skin disease such as scarring, saggy skin, freckle and in adjustment of prolactin.

                                                       1
          A STRAIN LIQUID OBTAINED FROM FERMENTATION OF OLIVES AND
                         PREPARATION METHODS AND USES THEREOF
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]    The present disclosure relates to a strain liquid obtained from the fermentation of olives, to
methods for preparing the strain liquid, and to uses thereof.
BACKGROUND
[0002] Olives contain many healthy biochemical components, such as oleuropein, elenolic acid and
oleuropeoside, and have been used in the preparation of healthcare products and food products to
afford many beneficial functions. For example, Chinese patent publication No. CN 10672031 0A
discloses a method for preparing fermented milk, wherein olive oil, phytosterols/phytosteryl esters,
sugar-substitute sweeteners and pre-heated skimmed raw-material milk as well as fermentation
strain(s) are combined for fermentation. The fermentation strain(s) is/are one or more selected from
lactobacillus acidophilus, lactobacillus rhamnosus and lactobacillus casei.
[0003] International patent publication No. W02005002351 (A2) discloses a method for
manufacturing ginseng edible oil by aging a root of ginseng and edible oil. The method includes steps
of mixing a root of ginseng and an edible oil such as bean oil, corn oil, rapeseed oil and olive oil, in
the ratio of 1:3 and then aging them for over 15 days, and separating the aging root of ginseng and the
obtained edible oil.
[0004] In addition, Chinese patent publication No. CN 106860094 (A) discloses an enzyme wrinkle
removing toner, which is prepared by mixing the following raw materials: ginseng extract, arbutin,
glabridin, pyridoxine hydrochloride, beta-glucanase, lactobacillus casei, aloe extract, yeast extract,
honeysuckle flower extract, horse chestnut extract, liquorice extract, propolis extract, eyebright
extract, salvia miltiorrhiza extract, folium artemisiae argyi extract, largehead atractylodes extract,
gynostemma pentaphylla extract, loofah extract, radix gentianae extract, clove extract, glabridin liquid,
vitamin C, hyaluronic acid, hyaluronate powder, lubrajel oil, water-soluble olive oil, polyglutamic
acid, caprylic/capric triglyceride, perfume and ionized water, and fermenting them in an anaerobic
atmosphere.
[0005] German patent publication No. DE19607749 (A) discloses a dietary health promoting drink
that is made by homogeneously mixing together, without heating: 1 orange, 1 banana or 1 kiwi, 150 g

                                                      2
milk or milk product such as yoghurt, kefir or buttermilk, 1/2 lemon or grapefruit, 1 egg and 1 dessert
spoon of a vegetable oil such as sunflower oil, olive oil or thistle oil.
[0006] There has been no report of a beneficial strain liquid obtained from the fermentation of olives.
SUMMARY
[0007] In a first aspect, the present disclosure provides a method of preparing a strain liquid through
fermentation of olives, which includes the following steps:
         providing a milk composition comprising milk, a bacteria from the lactic acid bacteria group
and sucrose, so as to produce a fermented dairy composition,
         combining the fermented dairy composition with a bacteria used in making alcohol beverages,
a bacteria used in making vinegars, sucrose and water, wherein the amount of sucrose and the amount
of water are selected to produce a concentration of about 5.0% by weight to about 10.0% by weight of
sucrose in water, and wherein the weight ratio between the fermented dairy composition and sucrose
plus water is in the range of about 0.5:1 to about 1.5:1, so as to obtain a first material,
         allowing the first material to ferment until a solid portion substantially comprising casein is
separated from a liquid portion substantially comprising whey,
         combining olives with a suitable amount of the liquid portion substantially comprising whey,
so as to produce a second material,
         allowing the olives in the second material to ferment, until a liquid part of the second material
has a pH of about 3.0 to about 4.0.
[0008] In a second aspect, the present disclosure provides a strain liquid obtained from fermentation
of olives through the method of the first aspect.
[0009] In a third aspect, the present disclosure provides the use of the strain liquid obtained from
fermentation of olives in health care.
DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
[0010] Embodiments of the present invention will be discussed with reference to the accompanying
drawings wherein:
[0011] Figure 1 shows an example of the strain liquid which has been prepared through the method of
the present disclosure; and
[0012] Figure 2 shows a flow diagram for the method of the present disclosure.

                                                       3
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0013]   The term "olive" or "olives" (also known by its botanical name as "olea europaea" or "olea
europaeas") in the present disclosure may include some part of an olive plant, such as ripe olive fruits,
unripened olive fruits, olive leaves and olive branches.
[0014] In a first aspect, the present disclosure provides a method of preparing a strain liquid through
fermentation of olives, which includes the following steps:
              a) providing a milk composition comprising milk, a bacteria from the lactic acid bacteria
                  group and sucrose, so as to produce a fermented dairy composition,
              b) combining the fermented dairy composition with a bacteria used in making alcohol
                  beverages, a bacteria used in making vinegars, sucrose and water, wherein the amount
                  of sucrose and the amount of water are selected to produce a concentration of about
                  5.0% by weight to about 10.0% by weight of sucrose in water, and wherein the weight
                  ratio between the fermented dairy composition and sucrose plus water is in the range
                  of about 0.5:1 to about 1.5:1, so as to obtain a first material,
              c) allowing the first material to ferment until a solid portion substantially comprising
                  casein is separated from a liquid portion substantially comprising whey,
              d) combining olives with a suitable amount of the liquid portion substantially comprising
                  whey, so as to produce a second material,
              e) allowing the olives in the second material to ferment, until a liquid part of the second
                  material has a pH of about 3.0 to about 4.0.
[0015] The phrase "strain liquid" used in the present disclosure means a liquid that contains a
biological strain such as bacteria or fungus, especially a probiotic strain.
[0016]    The phrase "fermented" used in the present disclosure includes within its scope partially
fermented and fully fermented materials. In some embodiments of the first aspect, the fermented dairy
composition produced in (b) may be in the form of a soft cheese.
[0017]   It is possible that a bacteria present in the air, such as a yeast bacteria, may participate in
fermentation during the procedure of the present method.
[0018]   In some embodiments of the first aspect, the sucrose to be used can be selected from for
example, but not limited to, cane sugar and beet sugar.

                                                       4
[0019]    In some embodiments of the first aspect, the sucrose in step (a) can be at a concentration of
about 5.0% by weight relative to the weight of the milk.
[0020] In some embodiments of the first aspect, step (a) can be implemented through combining a
bacteria from the lactic acid bacteria group with milk, and optionally before this, after this or at the
same time, dissolving either or both of cane sugar and beet sugar into the milk to a concentration of
about 5.0% by weight.
[0021] In some embodiments of the first aspect, the bacteria from the lactic acid bacteria group can be
used in an amount of 0.1-5.0%by weight, preferably 1.0-4.0%by weight relative to the weight of the
milk for step (a).
[0022] In some embodiments of the first aspect, the bacteria from the lactic acid bacteria group can be
selected from those used in yogurt fermentation. In some embodiments of the first aspect, the bacteria
from the lactic acid bacteria group can be selected from Lactobacillus. In some embodiments of the
first aspect, the bacteria from the lactic acid bacteria group can be for example, but not limited to,
Bifidobacterium, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillus acidophilus,
Lactobacillus bulgarium, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, and a combination thereof.
[0023] In some embodiments of the first aspect, fermentation in step (a) can be conducted at a
temperature of about 22'C to about 32'C, such as about 22'C, about 23'C, about 24'C, about 25'C,
about 26'C, about 27'C, about 28'C, about 29'C, about 30'C, about 31 C or about 32'C.
[0024]    In some embodiments of the first aspect, the bacteria used in making alcohol beverages can
be selected from those used in making wines, rice alcohols and beers. In some embodiments of the
first aspect, the bacteria used in making alcohol beverages can be selected from Saccharomyces. In
some embodiments of the first aspect, the bacteria used in making alcohol beverages can be for
example, but not limited to, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Saccharomyces bayanus, Saccharomyces
carlsbergensis, Saccharomyces boulardii, Candida albicans, Saccharomyces eubayanus, and a
combination thereof.
[0025] In some embodiments of the first aspect, the bacteria used in making vinegars can be selected
from those used in making rice vinegars and fruit vinegars. In some embodiments of the first aspect,
he bacteria used in making vinegars can be selected from acetic acid bacteria. In some embodiments of
the first aspect, the bacteria used in making vinegars can be selected from Acetobacter. In some
embodiments of the first aspect, the bacteria used in making vinegars can be for example, but not
limited to, Acetobacter pasteurianus, Acetobacter oxydans, Acetobacter schutzenbachii, Acetobacter
orleanense, Acetobacter scendens, Acetobacter rancells, Acetobacter aceti, and a combination thereof.

                                                      5
[0026] In some embodiments of the first aspect, the weight ratio of the fermented dairy composition
and the solution of sucrose in water for step (b) is about 1.0:1.0. In some embodiments of the first
aspect, step (b) can be conducted in the following way: combining the fermented dairy composition
with a bacteria used in making alcohol beverages, a bacteria used in making vinegars, and a solution
of sucrose in water at a concentration of about 5.0% by weight to about 10.0% by weight, wherein the
weight ratio of the fermented dairy composition and the solution of sucrose in water is in the range of
about 0.5:1 to about 1.5:1, preferably about 1.0:1.0, so as to obtain a first material.
[0027] In some embodiments of the first aspect, the olives can be for example, but not limited to,
Arbequina, Azapa, Barouni, Corregiolo, Hardy's Mammoth, Moraiolo, Frantoio, Wagga Verdale,
Verdale, South Australian Verdale, Lucca, Sevillano, Hojiblanca, Kalamata, Picual, Manzanillo,
Frantoio, Nevadillo Blanco, Cipressino, Coratina, and a combination thereof.
[0028] In some embodiments of the first aspect, fermentation in step (c) can be conducted at a
temperature of about 22'C to about 32'C, such as about 22'C, about 23'C, about 24'C, about 25'C,
about 26'C, about 27 0 C, about 28'C, about 29'C, about 30'C, about 31 C or about 32'C.
[0029] In some embodiments of the first aspect, for step (c), the solid portion substantially
comprising casein consists essentially of casein, the liquid portion substantially comprising whey
consists essentially of whey. In some embodiments of the first aspect, separation between the solid
portion substantially comprising casein and the liquid portion substantially comprising whey in step
(c) is visually observable.
[0030] In some embodiments of the first aspect, the suitable amount of the liquid portion substantially
comprising whey in step (d) means the amount suitable for fermentation of olives and can be
appreciated by the person skilled in the art. In some embodiments of the first aspect, the suitable
amount of the liquid portion substantially comprising whey in step (d) means that the weight ratio of
olives and liquid portion of the first fermented material is at least about 1:10. In some embodiments of
the first aspect, the suitable amount of the liquid portion substantially comprising whey in step (d)
means that the weight ratio of olives and liquid portion of the first fermented material is in the range of
about 1:10 to about 1:1, for example about 1:10, about 1:9, about 1:8, about 1:7, about 1:6, about 1:5,
about 1:4, about 1:3, about 1:2, about 1:1.
[0031] In some embodiments of the first aspect, fermentation in step (e) can be conducted at a
temperature of about 22'C to about 32'C, such as about 22'C, about 23'C, about 24'C, about 25'C,
about 26'C, about 27 0 C, about 28'C, about 29'C, about 30'C, about 31 C or about 32'C. In some
embodiments of the first aspect, fermentation in step (e) is accompanied by gas production.

                                                      6
[0032] In some embodiments of the first aspect, the milk can be selected from for example, but not
limited to, cattle milk, goat milk, sheep milk, and a combination thereof. Furthermore, the milk can be
processed or unprocessed. In some embodiments of the first aspect, the milk can be commercially
available, for example, milk products sold under the trade mark PURA®.
[0033] In some embodiments of the first aspect, the strain liquid obtained from the fermentation of
olives has a pH of about 4.0. In some embodiments of the first aspect, the strain liquid obtained from
the fermentation of olives has a pH of about 3.0.The strain liquid can be used for further cultivation.
[0034] In some embodiments of the first aspect, wherein the bacteria from the lactic acid bacteria
group, the bacteria used in making alcohol beverages and the bacteria used in making vinegars that are
to be added for the method are in a weight ratio of about 1:1:1.
[0035] In some embodiments of the first aspect, the strain liquid has a colour of purple brown. In
some embodiments of the first aspect, the strain liquid has a taste of bitter coffee.
[0036] In some embodiments of the second aspect, the strain liquid obtained from the fermentation of
olives is obtained from fermentation of one or more of unripened olive fruits, ripe olive fruits, olive
leaves and olive branches. In some embodiments of the second aspect, the strain liquid obtained from
the fermentation of olives is obtained from fermentation of ripe olive fruits. In some embodiments of
the second aspect, the strain liquid obtained from the fermentation of olives is obtained from
fermentation of unripened olive fruits and olive leaves.
[0037] The strain liquid obtained from the fermentation of olives demonstrates very high
fermentation capacity under various fermentation conditions, which can be measured by the degree of
gas production.
[0038] In a third aspect, the present disclosure provides the use of a strain liquid obtained from the
fermentation of olives in health care. In some embodiments, the strain liquid obtained from the
fermentation of olives can be used to alleviate or improve symptoms, for example, cough,
hyperuricemia, gastritis, light hair loss, breast hyperplasia, aphtha, skin diseases such as scarring,
saggy skin, freckle and to adjust the level of prolactin.
EXAMPLES
[0039] Example 1 - Preparationof a strain liquid obtainedfrom the fermentation of olives

                                                      7
[0040] 50g cane sugar and lOg Lactobacillus bulgarium were added to 1000g PURA@ original milk,
so as to provide a milk composition. The milk composition was then inoculated with the 1Og
Lactobacillus bulgarium at room temperature. After about 2 day, a fermented dairy composition in the
form of soft cheese was obtained. 1060g of the fermented dairy composition was combined with 1Og
Saccharomyces cerevisiae, 1Og Acetobacter oxydans, and 1060g a solution of cane sugar in water at a
concentration of about 7% by weight, so as to obtain a first material. The first material was fermented
at room temperature until a solid portion substantially comprising casein is separated from a liquid
portion substantially comprising whey. 30g olive ripe fruits were added to 300g of the liquid portion
substantially comprising whey, so as to obtain a second material. The olives were allowed to ferment
in the liquid part of the second material at room temperature until the pH of the liquid part was about
3.0.
[0041] Example 2 - Health careprovided by a strain liquid obtainedfrom the fermentation of ripe
olive fruits
[0042] As stated below, the strain liquid prepared thereby has helped some patients improve their
health and alleviate the symptoms they have suffered.
[0043] Patient 1, 61 yr, had a constant cough. After two successive days of the cough, he took the
strain liquid and slept quietly overnight.
[0044] Patient 2, 59 yr, suffered hyperuricemia for many years and could not eat seafood. After oral
administration of the strain liquid for one month, the painful feeling disappeared and the level of uric
acid returned to normal. After oral administration of the strain liquid for three months, apparent
improvement for saggy skin was observed. In addition, when the patient suffered aphtha, she
recovered after oral administration of the strain liquid for 2-3 days.
[0045] Patient 3, 62 yr, suffered extremely high level of uric acid, and had painful swelling of her
feet, which may lead to an incapability of walking. After oral administration of the strain liquid for
one month, her conditions returned to normal.
[0046] Patient 4, 40 yr, had very odorous menstrual blood. After oral administration of the strain
liquid for one month, her menstrual blood was no longer odorous. She also suffered excess prolactin
and continuous secretion of milk for 20 years, which lead to flat breast and a period of only 1-2 days.
After oral administration of the strain liquid for three months, secretion of milk discontinued, her
period returned to be 4-5 days and her breast began to naturally develop.

                                                       8
[0047] Patient 5, 45 yr, suffered extremely high level of uric acid. When the symptoms broke out, he
could not get out of bed and suffered local lumps and blackening. After oral administration of the
strain liquid for two weeks, the symptoms were relieved and he could walk by himself The test
showed that his uric acid level declined from 559 to 420 (the upper limit of the normal range). He is
now continuing to have the strain liquid.
[0048] Patient 6, 46 yr, had obvious improvement for her symptoms after oral administration of the
strain liquid for 2 years: (1) high level of uric acid during a period of 5 years, many painful parts on
her body, incapability of having seafood, but the level returned to normal and she could have seafood
regularly after oral administration of the strain liquid for 3 months; (2) uterine cyst during a period of
5 years, wherein the cyst had developed to a size of about an egg and became painful frequently, but it
was no longer painful after oral administration of the strain liquid; (3) cyclomastopathy which became
painful about 15 days ahead of the period, but this returned to normal after oral administration of the
strain liquid, and the acne before the period no longer recurred; (4) thecal cyst of 10 mm in height, but
it was alleviated after oral administration of the strain liquid and gradually returned to normal; (5)
freckle, saggy skin, wrinkles, dark face colour, but the freckle clearly diminished, her skin became
firming and lustrous, and she looked younger; (6) light hair loss during a period of 20 years, which
was apparently improved after oral administration of the strain liquid; (7) a scald of approximately the
size of an egg, which recovered after oral administration of the strain liquid and without the aid of any
other medicines, and no scar remained.
[0049] It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the disclosure is not restricted in its use to
the particular application described. Neither is the present disclosure restricted in its preferred
embodiment with regard to the particular elements and/or features described or depicted herein. It will
be appreciated that the disclosure is not limited to the embodiment or embodiments disclosed, but is
capable of numerous rearrangements, modifications and substitutions without departing from the
scope of the disclosure as set forth and defined by the following claims.
[0050]    Throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the words "comprise" and "include" and variations such as "comprising" and "including"
will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers, but not the exclusion
of any other integer or group of integers.
[0051] The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.

                                                      9
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.       A method of preparing a strain liquid through fermentation of olives, which includes the
following steps:
              a) providing a milk composition comprising milk, a bacteria from the lactic acid bacteria
                  group and sucrose, so as to produce a fermented dairy composition,
              b) combining the fermented dairy composition with a bacteria used in making alcohol
                  beverages, a bacteria used in making vinegars, sucrose and water, wherein the amount
                  of sucrose and the amount of water are selected to produce a concentration of about
                  5.0% by weight to about 10.0% by weight of sucrose in water, and wherein the weight
                  ratio between the fermented dairy composition and sucrose plus water is in the range
                  of about 0.5:1 to about 1.5:1, so as to obtain a first material,
              c)  allowing the first material to ferment until a solid portion substantially comprising
                  casein is separated from a liquid portion substantially comprising whey,
              d) combining olives with a suitable amount of the liquid portion substantially comprising
                  whey, so as to produce a second material,
              e)  allowing the olives in the second material to ferment, until a liquid part of the second
                  material has a pH of about 3.0 to about 4.0.
2.       The method according to claim 1, wherein the bacteria from the lactic acid bacteria group is
selected from those used in yogurt fermentation.
3.       The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the bacteria used in making alcohol beverages
is selected from those used in making wines, rice alcohols and beers.
4.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the bacteria used in making
vinegars is selected from those used in making rice vinegars and fruit vinegars.
5.       The use of the strain liquid obtained from the fermentation of olives according to any one of
claims 1 to 4 in the alleviation or improvement of any one or more of cough, hyperuricemia, gastritis,
light hair loss, breast hyperplasia, aphtha and skin diseases and in adjustment of prolactin.

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                  1/2
FIGURE 1

                                          2/2
<removed-date>
              Provide a milk composition
              comprising milk, bacteria from the
              lactic acid group and sucrose
              Inoculate the milk composition with
              the bacteria from the lactic acid
<removed-apn>
              group
                                   Produce a fermented dairy
                                   composition
              Combine the fermented dairy
              composition with a bacteria used in
              making alcohol beverages, a
              bacteria used in making vinegars,
              sucrose and water
                                   Obtain a first material
              Allow the first material to ferment
              until a solid portion substantially
              comprising casein is separated from
              a liquid portion substantially
              comprising whey
               Combining olives with a suitable
               amount of the liquid portion
               substantially comprising whey
                                   Produce a second material
               Allow the olives in the second
               material to ferment until a liquid part
               of the second material has a pH of
               about 3.0 to about 4.0
               Obtain the liquid strain
                                     FIGURE 2

