                                                    14
   Abstract
   A low profile scoop for dosing of powdered infant formula has a handle portion and a
   bowl with an open mouth and a closed underside. The bowl has a width that is
 5 relatively smaller than both its length and its depth, allowing it to be placed on its side
   in areas of relatively low head space. The scoop may be used in package for powdered
   infant nutrition comprising a tub defining a product containing space and a lid having
   limited head space.
10 Fig I

WO 2014/129903               PCT/NL2014/050112
                    1/4
        Fig. 1
                        41
                               44
                                      42
                 50
               6
                                           12
     52    I
    20
                           810
                                      4
                                    2

                                                 1
                                    LOW PROFILE SCOOP
          This disclosure accompanies a divisional application of AU2014219515, the
   contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.
 5
   Field of the Disclosure
          The present disclosure relates to a scoop for the dispensing of products, in
   particular powdered products such as infant nutrition or milk formula. The disclosure
   relates furthermore to the combination of such a scoop with a package having limited
10 head space in which the scoop can be retained prior to use.
   Description of the Related Art
          Powdered material, such as infant milk formula, has been sold in various forms of
   package for many years. Metal cans were initially the preferred container as they were
15 relatively easy and cheap to produce and could be sealed for long term storage. The
   seal comprised an aluminium foil across the mouth of the container that was removed
   on first use. As a single container would be used for an extended period, the containers
   were provided with re-closable plastic lids which gripped over the outer rim of the can.
   A measuring scoop was frequently included with the container, either packaged
20 separately or within the can itself.
          More recently, alternative packaging forms have become available which
   improve on the existing cans. These include plastic and foil laminate container bodies
   and hinged lid assemblies having a facility to receive and retain a measuring scoop. In
   particular, it has been found desirable that the scoop is not included within the product
25 containing space as this may require more stringent requirements on the scoop
   production and introduction of the scoop at a late production stage is excluded. One
   such package is described in US 2008041861, having a seal for initially closing the
   package and a space between the seal and an upper edge of the container for partially
   receiving the scoop prior to use. By distancing the seal from an upper edge of the
30 container, additional space can be provided for the scoop without requiring variation in
   the design of the lid assembly. It will be understood that this can be important in cases
   where a number of scoops of different sizes may be required.

                                                    2
          More recent packaging designs have sought to reduce the unused space within the
   package. It would therefore be desirable to provide an alternative scoop construction
   that can assist in reducing such unused space. Additionally, it would be desirable to
   provide a scoop and package combination which can be adapted to different sizes of
 5 scoop.
   BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
          According to the disclosure, there is provided a low profile scoop for dosing of
   powdered infant formula, the scoop having a handle portion and a bowl with an open
10 mouth and a closed underside, wherein the bowl has a width that is smaller than both its
   length and its depth. As a result of this configuration, the scoop can be located in a
   sideways position within the lid of a package having low head space. Furthermore,
   scoops of different volume can vary in the depth of the bowl without requiring any
   greater headspace within the package due to the sideways orientation of the scoop. In
15 the present context, headspace is intended to denote the space between the upper
   surface of the product or a covering membrane and the underside of the lid i.e. the
   space available for storing the scoop. Furthermore, the depth dimension of the scoop is
   that extending from the mouth to the underside; the length dimension is that directed in
   a direction generally aligned with the handle portion; and the width dimension is
20 directed transverse to the handle portion.
          The scoop may be provided within the package and may be located above the
   membrane seal prior to use. It is also conceivable that the scoop is integrally formed
   with the lid construction and separated at first use.
          Preferably, the bowl may have a mouth of generally rectangular shape. More
25 preferably, the bowl may have generally flat parallel side walls extending in the length
   direction and curved end walls extending in the width direction. The closed underside
   of the scoop may also be flat. It will be understood that the scoop is not intended for
   use while eating and the term scoop is not intended to refer to a spoon such as used for
   insertion into a user's mouth.
30        In one embodiment, the bowl may be no wider than the handle portion. In another
   embodiment the mouth has a width corresponding approximately to the width of the
   handle portion. In this manner effective use of the head space within the package can
   be maximised.

                                                   3
         In certain embodiments, the depth of the bowl is greater than its length. Such a
   configuration may allow for increased volume scoops while maintaining the ability to
   stack with smaller volume scoops having the same length dimension. It may also
   ensure that gripping portions within the lid can be standardised for different volumes of
 5 scoop. In one embodiment, the length of the bowl is around 50% greater than its width.
          Most preferably, the scoop may be stackable and has a tapered or stepped bowl
   that can nest together with another scoop of similar shape. Although in use of the
   scoop, stacking may not be required, during production and transport of the scoops,
   stacking may be advantageous.
10        Tapering may be achieved in various ways. In one case, the bowl may be tapered
   from the mouth to the underside with a taper angle of less than 8', preferably less than
   6' and most preferably around 4.5' in both width and length directions. In this context,
   the taper angle is given as the angle with respect to a centre line or plane of symmetry
   of the bowl. In another embodiment, scoops may be stepped, whereby a narrower lower
15 portion can fit within a wider mouth portion.
         According to a still further embodiment, an elongate opening is provided through
   the handle portion adjacent to the bowl. This may avoid accumulation of milk powder
   on the handle portion during scooping. The handle portion may also include more than
   one opening. It has been found advantageous in some embodiments if the elongate
20 opening has a largest dimension that is less than a width of the scoop handle. This can
   prevent unwanted tangling of scoops during production due to handles becoming
   engaged through the openings of other scoops.
          The scoop may have any appropriate volume for the required dosing purpose.
   Preferably, the scoop may have a bowl volume of between 8 ml and 11.5 ml.
25 Nevertheless, scoops of larger and smaller volumes may be available for specific
   dosage regimes including scoops as large as 20 ml and as small as 5 ml. In terms of
   other dimensions, the bowl preferably has a width at the mouth of less than 30 mm,
   more preferably less than 24 mm and most preferably around 20 mm. The bowl
   preferably may have a length at the mouth of around 30 mm but may vary from around
30 20 mm to around 40 mm. The primary variable is the depth, which may vary from
   around 20 mm to around 50 mm. In particular, for a scoop with a mouth of 28 mm in
   length and 19 mm in width, the depth dimension may be around 35 mm for a scoop
   volume of 11.5 ml; 22 mm for a scoop volume of 8 ml; and 27 mm for a scoop volume

                                                    4
   of 9.5 ml. The present disclosure may be particularly applicable to scoops having a
   bowl with a depth that is at least 50% greater than the width at the mouth. The length
   of the handle portion may be around 70 mm.
          The scoop may preferably be provided with arrangements for improving filling
 5 and release of milk powder or the like. In order to ensure dosing accuracy, the scoop
   should be accurately filled without the occurrence of air spaces or voids in some
   embodiments. It should also empty completely on inverting the scoop without excess
   agitation in some embodiments. As the scoop gets deeper and narrower, these
   requirements can become more difficult to achieve. Increasing a taper angle of the
10 scoop may assist emptying but at the expense of loss of volume. Preferably, one or
   more small openings may be provided through the closed underside of the bowl. These
   may help to prevent vacuum formation on emptying of the scoop, while being too small
   for passage of powdered formula. It is thus understood that the term "closed underside'
   must be interpreted to include such small openings.
15        Another way in which better filling of the bowl of the scoop may be achieved is
   by providing the underside of the bowl with a transition section providing an extended
   transition between the underside and an end wall of the bowl that is relatively less
   abrupt than a transition between the underside and sidewalls of the bowl. The extended
   transition may be a section at around 450 to the bottom of the scoop and may have a
20 length of at least 8 mm. Alternatively, the extended transition may be a large radius
   curved transition having a radius of e.g. more than 8 mm. This transition may be
   relatively greater than that between the sidewalls and the underside, which may have a
   radius of less than 1 mm. The extended transition may be provided at just one end of
   the scoop e.g. closest to the handle or may be provided at both ends.
25        The scoop may be made of any suitable plastics material, most preferably from
   injection moulded polypropylene.
          The disclosure also relates to a package for powdered infant nutrition comprising
   a tub defining a product containing space and a lid, a quantity of powdered infant
   nutrition within the product containing space and a membrane seal closing the product
30 containing space prior to use, the package further comprising a scoop as defined above,
   placed on its side above the seal within a headspace of the lid. The headspace defined
   as the region between the seal and the lid may be less than 30 mm in height, preferably
   less than 25 mm in height or around 20 mm in height, as measured at the location of the

                                                    5
   scoop. The scoop may preferably be dimensioned to take full advantage of this
   headspace. Preferably, the width of the bowl of the scoop may be no more than 4 mm
   less than this headspace, more preferably no more than 3 mm less and preferably
   around 2 mm less. In other words, the height of the headspace may exceed the width of
 5 the bowl of the scoop no more than by the disclosed amounts. In certain circumstances,
   the scoop may even completely fill the headspace and bear against the membrane seal.
   The membrane seal may comprise a metal foil or may be a plastics-only foil. A
   preferred material may comprise polypropylene outer layers with a barrier layer of e.g.
   EVOH laminated therebetween. It may be removed in its entirety prior to use or may
10 comprise a weakened tear line defining an opening region, and a pull tab. The
   headspace should be sufficient that the scoop cannot cause damage to the seal in some
   embodiments. In particular, in some embodiments, it should be excluded that undesired
   leakage or puncture of the seal occurs or any damage that might cause gas leakage and
   oxygen to enter the package. It will be understood that a purpose of the seal may be to
15 prevent oxidation of the contents, which can lead to reduced shelf life.
          The scoop may be located loosely within the headspace. More preferably, the lid
   may have a clip on its underside to grip the handle portion of the scoop and the scoop is
   gripped by the clip. On opening the lid, the scoop may be removed from the clip. It will
   be understood that the scoop may be permanently formed with the lid or clip e.g. by a
20 frangible connection. In general, such connections may be less desirable due to the risk
   of particles falling into the product containing space.
          In a most preferred embodiment, the tub may be a thermoformed tub of relatively
   thin plastic material having a peripheral wall extending to an upper edge defining the
   product containing space, and wherein the lid is hinged to an upper rim, engaged to the
25 upper edge of the tub. The lid and rim may be integrally formed together with a living
   hinge e.g. by injection moulding. Preferred materials for the lid and rim may be
   polypropylene (PP), polyethylene (PE) and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) or
   combinations thereof, although the skilled person will be familiar with various
   alternatives which could provide similar engineering properties.
30        The package may have a generally square or rectangular outer profile with
   rounded corners. The volume of the package may be between 500 ml and 3 litres,
   preferably between around 2 litres and 800 ml, and the access opening preferably has a
   minimum dimension of at least 70 mm more preferably around 100 mm and an area of

                                                     6
   at least 100 cm2 . The overall length of the package may be between 150 mm and 250
   mm, preferably about 185 mm. The width of the package may be between 100 mm and
   150 mm, preferably around 120 mm. The package may be available in multiple heights
   according to volume required, varying from 80 mm to 150 mm.
 5        The disclosure further relates to a plurality of scoops as described above, the
   scoops may be stackable together by nesting of their bowls and having different
   volumes by varying their depths while maintaining the width and length dimensions
   identical. Such a set of similar scoops may allow a standard package having a low head
   space to be implemented. According to the dosing requirements of the powdered
10 content, a scoop of the requisite volume may be added to the package. The scoops may
   be colour coded according to their volume.
   The disclosure also relates to, in combination, a scoop as set forth above and a package
   having a lid and limited head space between an underside of the lid and a membrane
   seal, the scoop being placed on its side above the seal within the headspace of the lid.
15        The lid may have a clip on its underside to grip the handle portion of the scoop
   and the scoop may be gripped by the clip. The product containing space may be defined
   by a thermoformed tub of relatively thin plastic material having a peripheral wall
   extending to an upper edge, and wherein the lid is hinged to an upper rim, engaged to
   the upper edge of the tub. The headspace, defined as the region between the membrane
20 seal and the underside of the lid, may have a height of no more than 4 mm, preferably
   no more than 3 mm, more preferably no more than 2 mm greater than a width of the
   bowl of the scoop. The head space may be less than 30 mm in height at the location of
   the scoop, preferably less than 25 mm in height or around 20 mm in height.
25
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   The features and advantages of the disclosure will be further appreciated upon
   reference to the following drawings of a number of exemplary embodiments, in which:
          Figure 1 shows a package according to one aspect of the present disclosure in
30 perspective view;
          Figure 2 shows a cross-section through the package of Figure 1;
          Figure 3 shows a scoop according to a first embodiment in perspective view;
          Figure 4 shows a scoop according to a second embodiment in perspective view;

                                                     7
          Figure 5 shows the scoop of Figure 4 in plan view;
          Figure 6 shows a scoop according to a third embodiment in perspective view; and
          Figure 7 shows a scoop according to a fourth embodiment in perspective view.
 5
   DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
          Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a package 1 for powdered infant nutrition
   according to a first embodiment comprising a tub 2 defining a product containing space
   20 and a lid 12. A quantity of powdered infant nutrition is located within the product
10 containing space 20 and a membrane seal 6 is shown in a partially removed condition.
   The lid 12 is hinged to an upper rim 10 that engages mechanically with a lower rim 8,
   connected to the tub 2. It will be understood that other lid assemblies may also be used
   in this context. The tub 2 is thermoformed of relatively thin polypropylene material and
   a sleeve 4 formed of carton supports around it.
15        Within the lid 12 is located a scoop 42. The scoop 42 has a handle portion 41,
   which is gripped by a clip 44 on the underside of the lid 12. The scoop 42 is
   conveniently shaped to be relatively narrow, allowing it to be placed on its side within
   the limited head space within the lid 12. The handle portion 41 has an open structure,
   which is convenient for preventing a build-up of powder on the handle portion 41 when
20 in use. The lower rim 8 also incorporates a scoop holder 50 and left and right-handed
   levellers 52. After use of the scoop 42, it may be placed in the scoop holder 50. It will
   be noted that the scoop holder 50 has an elongate generally rectangular shape that
   corresponds to that of the scoop 42 and orientates the handle portion 41 of the scoop 42
   to a position where it can be easily grasped by a user.
25        Figure 2 shows a cross-section through the package of Figure 1, taken along line
   II-II, with the lid closed, prior to removal of the seal 6. As can be seen in this view, the
   seal 6 closes off the product containing space 20 and lies beneath the lower rim 8. The
   upper rim 10 and the lid 12 define a headspace 21 above the seal 6. The headspace 21
   has a minimum height h, measured at the centre of the lid 12. As can be seen, the scoop
30 42 is slightly narrower than the height h of the headspace, such that it can be positioned
   without interfering with the seal 6. It will be understood, that while the scoop 12 is
   illustrated with its handle portion 41 gripped by the clip 44, it may also be simply
   placed on the seal 6 during the manufacturing process.

                                                      8
          Figure 3 shows in greater detail the scoop 42 of Figure 1, including an elongate
   opening 43 through the handle portion 41. The bowl 51 of the scoop 42 has a width w
   that is relatively smaller than both its length 1 and its depth d. The bowl 51 has a mouth
   39 of generally rectangular shape with a width corresponding approximately to the
 5 width of the handle portion 41. The bowl 51 has generally flat parallel side walls 55
   extending in the length direction and curved end walls 57 extending in the width
   direction. The walls 55, 57 of the bowl 51 taper towards a slightly narrower closed
   underside 53 with a taper angle of around 4.5' in both width and length directions. This
   allows convenient stacking together of scoops during manufacture and transport. At the
10 end wall 57 opposite to the handle portion 41, the bowl 51 has a small nose 49, which
   assists during stacking by preventing the bowl of one scoop from inserting too deeply
   into the bowl of another scoop.
          The illustrated scoop 42 has a mouth 39 of 28 mm in length and 19 mm in width.
   The depth dimension of around 35 mm ensures a scoop volume of 11.5 ml. By varying
15 just the depth dimension, different scoop volumes may be provided while maintaining
   the same overall design. In particular, a scoop volume of 8 ml may be provided having
   a scoop depth of 22 mm and a scoop volume of 9.5 ml may have a depth dimension of
   27 mm.
          Figure 4 shows a scoop 142 according to one preferred embodiment, in which
20 similar features are provided like references preceded by 100. This scoop 142 has a
   bowl 151 of similar shape to that of Figure 3. In particular, the depth d in this
   embodiment is at least 50% greater than the width w of the bowl 151. The scoop 142
   differs from that of Figure 3 in that the underside 153 of the bowl 151 has a transition
   section 159 between the underside 153 and an end wall 157 of the bowl 151 closest to
25 the handle portion 141. The transition section 159 provides an extended transition that
   is relatively less abrupt than a transition between the underside 153 and the sidewalls
    155 of the bowl 151. These latter portions may form corners with radii of around 1 mm
   or less. The transition section 159 may have a length of more than 5 mm and may be
   angled at between 30' and 600 with respect to the underside 153.
30        According to one aspect of the disclosure, it has been found that low profile
   scoops i.e. those having a relatively narrow width compared to their depth and length
   directions can be difficult to fill accurately. Accurate filling is important in order to
   ensure correct dosing. In some cases, air pockets may be formed towards the underside

                                                     9
   of the bowl during filling, in particular in the comers between the underside and the
   end walls. By providing a transition section 159 as shown in Figure 4, smoother and
   more accurate filling may be achieved without formation of air pockets. It will be
   understood that other provisions may assist filling and that the transition section could
 5 be curved or otherwise formed.
         Figure 4 also illustrates that the handle portion 141 has a slightly different form to
   that of Figure 3. In particular, the handle portion is provided with two elongate
   openings 143, each of which is smaller than a width of the handle portion 141. In this
   manner, it can be avoided that a handle portion of one scoop becomes lodged in an
10 opening of another scoop during production and transport.
         Figure 5 shows the scoop 141 of Figure 4 in plan view. In this view, the parallel
   sidewalls 155 and the curved end walls 157 are better visible. Furthermore, the
   underside 153 of the bowl 151 can be seen to have three small openings 161. These
   openings 161 are too small to allow passage of the powdered product but can pass air in
15 order to avoid voids during filling of the scoop and vacuum formation on emptying.
         Figure 6 shows an alternative scoop 242 having a handle portion 241 similar to
   that of Figure 3 with an elongate opening 243. The scoop 242 differs from the earlier
   design of Figure 3 in that the bowl 251 has a stepped structure. The mouth 239 has the
   same width as the handle portion 241 but the bowl 251 no longer tapers downwards.
20 Instead, it has a constant cross-section to a step 250 at a mid-point of the bowl and then
   a smaller constant cross-section extending to the closed underside 253. Scoops 242 of
   this design may stack or nest together with the bowl 251 of one scoop extending into
   the next scoop up to the step 250. As above, different volumes may be provided by
   varying the depth of the bowl 251 with the step 250 preferably always being located at
25 the mid-point.
         Figure 7 shows a still further design of scoop 342 having a relatively simple
   structure of bowl 351. In this design, the handle portion 341 is identical to Figure 3 but
   the bowl 351 has a constant cross-section from mouth 339 to underside 353 and is not
   stackable. The skilled person will understand that many other alternative configurations
30 of scoop may be provided and that the design of the scoop may be adapted to the design
   of the container assembly itself.
          Thus, the disclosure has been described by reference to certain embodiments
   discussed above. It will be recognized that many modifications in addition to those

                                                     10
   described above may be made to the structures and techniques described herein without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly, although specific
   embodiments have been described, these are examples only and are not limiting upon
   the scope of the disclosure.
 5       It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
   reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
   common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
         In the claims which follow and in the preceding description, except where the
   context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
10 "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
   sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence
   or addition of further features in various embodiments of the scoop and combination.

                                                11
                                          Claims
   1. A low profile scoop for dosing of powdered infant formula, the scoop having a
 5    handle portion and a bowl with an open mouth and a closed underside, wherein
      the bowl has a width that is smaller than both its length and its depth.
   2. The scoop according to claim 1, wherein the mouth has a generally rectangular
      shape.
10
   3. The scoop according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the bowl has generally flat
      parallel side walls extending in the length direction and curved end walls
      extending in the width direction.
15 4. Scoop according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the mouth has a
      width corresponding to the width of the handle portion.
   5. Scoop according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the depth of the
      bowl is greater than its length and preferably more than 50% greater than its
20    width.
   6. Scoop according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the length of the
      bowl is around 50% greater than its width.
25 7. Scoop according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the scoop is
      stackable and has a tapered or stepped bowl that can nest together with another
      scoop of similar shape.
   8. Scoop according to claim 7, wherein the bowl is tapered from the mouth to the
30    underside with a taper angle of less than 6' in both width and length directions.
   9. Scoop according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein an elongate opening
      is provided through the handle portion adjacent to the bowl.

                                                 12
   10. Scoop according the claim 9, wherein the elongate opening has a largest
       dimension that is less than a width of the scoop handle.
   11. Scoop according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the bowl has a
 5     volume of between 5 ml and 20 ml, preferably between 8 ml and 11.5 ml.
   12. Scoop according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising one or
       more small openings through the closed underside of the bowl to prevent vacuum
       formation on emptying of the scoop.
10
   13. Scoop according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the underside of the
       bowl is generally flat.
   14. Scoop according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the underside of the
15     bowl has a transition section providing an extended transition between the
       underside and an end wall of the bowl that is relatively less abrupt than a
       transition between the underside and sidewalls of the bowl.
   15. Scoop according to any one of the preceding claims, consisting of a plastic
20     material, preferably injection moulded polypropylene.
   16. The scoop according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the bowl has a
       width at the mouth of less than 30 mm, preferably less than 24 mm and most
       preferably around 20 mm.
25
   17. The scoop according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the scoop is
       located in a sideways position within the lid of a package having a low head
       space.
30 18. The scoop according to any claim 17, wherein a height of the headspace exceeds
       the width of the bowl of the scoop by no more than 4 mm, preferably no more
       than 3 mm and preferably around 2 mm.

                                                 13
   19. The scoop according to claim 17 or claim 18, wherein the headspace is defined
       by a space between a covering membrane and an underside of the lid.
   20. In combination, a scoop according to any one of the preceding claims and a
 5     package having a lid and limited head space between an underside of the lid and a
       membrane seal, the scoop being placed on its side above the seal within the
       headspace of the lid.
   21. The combination according to claim 20, wherein the lid has a clip on its
10     underside to grip the handle portion of the scoop and the scoop is gripped by the
       clip.
   22. The combination according to claim 20 or claim 21, wherein the product
       containing space is defined by a thermoformed tub of relatively thin plastic
15     material having a peripheral wall extending to an upper edge, and wherein the lid
       is hinged to an upper rim, engaged to the upper edge of the tub.
   23. The combination according to any one of claims 20 to 22, wherein the headspace,
       defined as the region between the membrane seal and the underside of the lid, has
20     a height of no more than 4 mm, preferably no more than 3 mm, more preferably
       no more than 2 mm greater than a width of the bowl of the scoop.
   24. The combination according to any one of claims 20 to 23, wherein the head space
       is less than 30 mm in height at the location of the scoop, preferably less than 25
25     mm in height or around 20 mm in height.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
