ABSTRACT
A solid substrate for the extraction, stabilization, and storage of proteins is provided. The
substrate includes: a polysaccharide, such as melezitose under a substantially dry state. The
substrate is configured to extract proteins from a sample and stabilize the extracted proteins in a
dry format under ambient conditions for a prolonged period of time. Methods for collecting and
recovering the proteins stored in the dry solid substrate are also described.

    1:
     \Kzh\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\KZIl\I6879237_1 docx-30 04 2018
                                             SUBSTRATES AND METHODS FOR COLLECTION,
                                          STABILIZATION AND ELUTION OF BIOMOLECULES
   [0000] This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015250915, the entire contents of
   which are incorporated herein by reference.
 5 FIELD
   [0001]               The invention relates to dry solid substrates for collection, stabilization and elution of
   biomolecules from a biological sample. The invention further relates to methods for collection,
   stabilization and elution of biomolecules from a biological sample from the dry solid substrates.
   BACKGROUND
10 [0002]               Preserving the structural and functional integrity of biomolecules during isolation or
   purification from a biological sample is essential for various downstream applications including
   analyte detection, sensing, forensic, diagnostic or therapeutic applications, and the like.                The
   extraction and stabilization of proteins, peptides or amino acids derived from a biological sample are
   sensitive to a number of environmental factors including, but are not limited to, solution pH,
15 temperature, and the ubiquitous presence of various proteases. Consequently, proteins or peptides in
   solution states are typically stored under refrigeration (e.g. 4'C, -20'C, or -80'C) to prevent
   hydrolysis and enzymatic degradation and to preserve the integrity of protein structure or function.
   [0003]               Dry-state technologies claiming successful collection and preservation of proteins or
   peptides in dry formats typically require protein to be "pre-purified" and "concentrated" from a
20 sample prior to storage. Other dry-state technologies for the preservation of proteins in dry formats
   require additional drying facilities (e.g. forced air flow, lyophilization). These methods are therefore
   not conducive to direct collection and stabilization of proteins or peptides from a sample (e.g., a
   biological sample) without additional and significant processing steps.
   [0004]               Proteins or peptides are prone to denaturation and consequently tend to lose biological
25 activity or epitope recognition during storage. Proteins that are targets of different analytical

       WO 2015/162093                                                          PCT/EP2015/058518
    tests, such as biomarkers or biological therapeutic drugs, may be present in low quantities in
    unpurified states. Thus, methods for maximizing the recovery of protein analytes of interest are
    highly desirable. Degradation of protein or peptide may be slowed or prevented using chemical
    additives that, for example, inhibit protease activity.     However, the presence of chemical
  5 additives may affect down-stream analytical techniques including mass spectroscopy and
    immunoassays.
    [0005]      Untreated cellulose paper substrates, such as, 903 or 31ETF papers (Whatmanfm, GE
    Healthcare) or Grade 226 paper (Ahlstrom, PerkinElmer) are used widely for preservation of
    enzymes, antibodies, proteins, peptides, and amino acids in dried blood spots for analytical
 [0 purposes such as neonatal testing. However, the recovery of analytes from untreated cellulose
    substrates and subsequent biological activity of said analytes, particularly proteins that are prone
    to degradation, are often not sufficient. Dried specimens, such as dried blood spot samples used
    in neonatal testing, are generally stored under refrigeration to maintain analyte stability.
    Analytes which can be eluted inefficiently from dried blood spots may be interpreted in the art
 [5 as unstable targets due to poor functional recovery. Supplementing different chemical fillers to
    stabilize proteins has been reported in the art, however the fillers have limited ability to recover
    and stabilize sensitive proteins.
    [0006]      Accordingly, compositions and methods which enable collection and extraction of
    biomolecules including proteins, peptides or amino acids from a biological sample, and then
20  stabilize the biomolecules under a dry-state and ambient conditions without pre-purification, and
    elute the biomolecules in a substantially intact form thereafter for further analysis are highly
    desirable.
                                                      2

       WO 2015/162093                                                        PCT/EP2015/058518
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION
    [0007]      One embodiment of a solid substrate for extraction, stabilization and elution of
    biomolecules, comprises a melezitose under a substantially dry state.
    [0008]      In another embodiment, a solid substrate for collection, stabilization and elution of
  5 biomolecules, comprises a trisaccharide under a substantially dry state.
    [0009]      One example of a method for extracting, stabilizing and eluting biomolecules from a
    biological sample disposed on a solid substrate, comprises contacting the biological sample to
    the substrate; drying the biological sample to a substantially dry state; and eluting the
    biomolecules from the biological sample dried on the substrate by rehydrating the substrate in
 [0 an elution buffer, wherein the solid substrate comprises melezitose under a substantially dry
    state, and optionally one or more lysis reagents, nucleic acid denaturing reagents or
    combinations thereof, impregnated therein under a substantially dry state.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWING
    [0010]      FIG. 1 is a graph showing enhanced elution efficiency of active, non-denatured 0 -gal
15  while recovered from a substrate with 15% melezitose compared to unmodified 31-ETF
    cellulose.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
    [0011]      The embodiments provide suitable matrices and methods for extraction, stabilization
    and elution of biomolecules, such as proteins, peptides, amino acids, enzymes, and antibodies.
20  Biomolecules which are prone to denaturation are therefore difficult to preserve in an intact
    form.    One or more embodiments of the invention relate to a solid substrate for extraction,
    stabilization and elution of biomolecules, wherein the substrate comprises a trisaccharide, such
    as melezitose under a substantially dry state.   The solid substrate is configured to collect a
                                                   3

       WO 2015/162093                                                       PCT/EP2015/058518
    biological sample, then extract and stabilize proteins, peptides or amino acids from the sample
    for a prolonged period, followed by elution within a single process step. The eluted proteins or
    peptides are used in various downstream applications. The substrate is configured to stabilize
    proteins or peptides in a substantially dry-state at ambient temperature and substantially retain
  5 the integral structure and/or function of the protein.
    [0012]     To more clearly and concisely describe the subject matter of the claimed invention,
    the following definitions are provided for specific terms, which are used in the following
    description and the appended claims. Throughout the specification, exemplification of specific
    terms should be considered as non-limiting examples.
 [0 [0013]     The singular forms "a", "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the context
    clearly dictates otherwise. Approximating language, as used herein throughout the specification
    and claims, may be applied to modify any quantitative representation that could permissibly
    vary without resulting in a change in the basic function to which it is related. Accordingly, a
    value modified by a term such as "about" is not to be limited to the precise value specified. In
 [5 some instances, the approximating language may correspond to the precision of an instrument
    for measuring the value. Where necessary, ranges have been supplied, and those ranges are
    inclusive of all sub-ranges there between.
    [0014]     The term "biological sample" as referred to herein includes, but is not limited to,
    blood, serum, tissue, and saliva obtained from any organism, including a human. Biological
20  samples may be obtained by an individual undergoing a self-diagnostic test (e.g., blood glucose
    monitoring) or by a trained medical professional through a variety of techniques including, for
    example, aspirating blood using a needle or scraping or swabbing a particular area, such as a
    lesion on a patient's skin. Methods for collecting various biological samples are well known in
    the art. The term "sample" includes biological samples as defined above, but also includes, for
25  example, tissue cultured cells and purified proteins.
                                                      4

        WO 2015/162093                                                          PCT/EP2015/058518
    [0015]      The term, "reducing agents" as referred to herein include any chemical species that
    provides electrons to another chemical species. A variety of reducing agents are known in the
    art. Exemplary reducing agents include dithiothreitol (DTT), 2-mercaptoethanol (2-ME), and
    tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine (TCEP). Moreover, any combination of these or other reducing
  5 agents may be used. In particular embodiments, the reducing agent is TCEP.
    [0016]      The term "buffer" as used herein includes, for example, 2-Amino-2-hydroxymethyl
    propane-1,3-diol       (Tris),   2-(N-morpholino)       ethanesulfonic     acid    (MES),     3-(N
    morpholino)propanesulfonic         acid    (MOPS),      citrate   buffers,    4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1
    piperazineethanesulfonic acid (HEPES), and phosphate buffers. This list of potential buffers is
 [0 for illustrative purposes only. The pH of the buffer selected for use in the compositions and
    methods disclosed herein is typically in the range of 3 to 10. In some embodiments, the pH of
    the buffer used herein is in a range of 6 to 9, or in some other embodiments, the pH of the buffer
    is in a range of 7 to 8.
    [0017]      One embodiment of a solid substrate for collection, stabilization and elution of
 [5 biomolecules, comprises a trisaccharide under a substantially dry state. The trisaccharide may
    be selected from melezitose, raffinose, maltotriulose, isomaltotriose, nigerotriose, maltotriose,
    ketose or combinations thereof.
    [0018]      One or more embodiments of a solid substrate comprise a melezitose under a
    substantially dry state.    Melezitose is a non-reducing trisaccharide sugar, having a molecular
20  weight of 504, 44 g/mol. In one or more embodiments, the solid substrate comprises melezitose,
    wherein a concentration of the melezitose is in range of about 10 to 30%. In one embodiment,
    the concentration of melezitose is 15%. The melezitose may be impregnated in the substrate. In
    some embodiments, the impregnated melezitose concentration in the substrate is between 10 to
    30%.     In some other embodiments, 15% melezitose is impregnated in the substrate.             The
25  substrate may be passively coated or covalently-modified with melezitose.            In some other
                                                       5

       WO 2015/162093                                                         PCT/EP2015/058518
    embodiments, the substrate is coated with a 15% solution of melezitose. The substrate with
    melezitose has shown high stability of the proteins, as well as provide higher yield, as described
    in Example 2.
    [0019]     In one or more examples, the substrate is further impregnated with one or more
  5 reagents, such as lysis reagents, buffer reagents or reducing agents. In some embodiments, the
    impregnated reagents comprise cell lytic reagents, biomolecule stabilizing reagents such as
    protein-stabilizing reagents, protein storage chemicals and combinations thereof impregnated
    therein under a substantially dry state.
    [0020]     The substrate is also configured to extract proteins or peptides from a biological
 [0 sample and preserve that in a substantially dry state at ambient temperature. As used herein, the
    term "substantially dry state" refers to drying the extracted biomolecules to have approximately
    less than 2% of water content. Similarly, the reagents are impregnated in the substrate in a
    substantially dry state.
    [0021]     "Incorporation" of the compositions into the substrate includes, but is not limited to,
 [5 the "dipping" procedure described below. In some embodiments, such methods accomplish
    incorporation of the composition into the dry solid substrate. Following incorporation of the
    composition into the dry solid substrate, the solid substrate is dried using any appropriate
    method.
    [0022]     In one or more embodiments, the substrate comprises lysis reagents.           The lysis
20  reagents may comprise detergents, chaotropes, denaturants or combinations thereof         Without
    intending to be limited to a particular denaturant, it may be categorized as either weak or strong
    lytic reagents depending on their biophysical properties and ability to completely inhibit
    biological enzyme activity (e.g. proteases). In some embodiments, weak protein denaturants
    (e.g. detergent) may be used for lysing cells and disrupting protein-protein interactions without
                                                      6

       WO 2015/162093                                                         PCT/EP2015/058518
    denaturing proteins. Numerous lysis reagents are known in the art and may be selected for use
    in the compositions and methods described herein.          Without intending to be limited to a
    particular   lysis reagents,    exemplary   lysis   reagents  include   guanidinium   thiocyanate,
    guanidinium hydrochloride, sodium thiocyanate, potassium thiocyanate, arginine, sodium
  5 dodecyl sulfate (SDS), urea or a combination thereof.
    [0023]     As noted, the lysis reagents may include detergents, wherein exemplary detergents
    may be categorized as ionic detergents, non-ionic detergents, or zwitterionic detergents. The
    ionic detergent may comprise anionic detergent such as, sodium dodecylsulphate (SDS) or
    cationic detergent, such as ethyl trimethyl ammonium bromide. Non-limiting examples of non
 [0 ionic detergent for cell lysis include TritonX-100, NP-40, Brij 35, Tween 20, Octyl glucoside,
    Octyl thioglucoside or digitonin.         Some zwitterionic     detergents may comprise 3-[(3
    Cho lamidopropyl)dimethylammonio] -1 -propanesulfonate             (CHAPS)        and       3-[(3
    Cholamidopropyl) dimethylammonio]-2-hydroxy-1-propanesulfonate (CHAPSO).
    [0024]     In one or more embodiments, the lysis reagent comprises a thiocyanate salt. One or
 [5 more embodiments of the substrate comprises a thiocyanate salt impregnated in a dry state.
    Exemplary thiocyanate salts include, but are not limited to, guanidinium thiocyanate, sodium
    thiocyanate, potassium thiocyanate or combinations thereof        In some other embodiments, the
    lysis reagent is selected from guanidinium thiocyanate, sodium thiocyanate, sodium dodecyl
    sulfate (SDS) or combinations thereof.
20  [0025]     In one or more embodiments, the substrate maintains stability and integrity of the
    protein at a desired level after extraction from a biological sample. In one embodiment, the
    substrate is impregnated with one or more protein stabilizing reagents.          These stabilizing
    reagents may include protease inhibitors, buffer, or chelating agents (e.g EDTA).
                                                      7

       WO 2015/162093                                                         PCT/EP2015/058518
    [0026]      The digestion of recovered proteins in the presence of proteases may be avoided by
    adding one or more protease inhibitors to the substrate, wherein the protease inhibitors may be
    added externally or may be impregnated in the substrate. In one embodiment, impregnated
    protease inhibitors may be activated upon wetting of the dry substrate. In some embodiments,
  5 the substrate further comprises a protease inhibitor, wherein the protease inhibitor is synthetic or
    occurs naturally (e.g. naturally-occurring peptide or protein) and comprises aprotinin, bestatin,
    chymostatin, leupeptin, alpha-2-macroglobulin, pepstatin, phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride, N
    ethylmaleimide, ethylenediaminetetraacetid acid, antithrombin, or combinations thereof In one
    example, an addition of such protease inhibitors enhances the stability of the proteins in both
 [0 liquid state and dry-formats by inhibiting the proteases or peptidases.
    [0027]      Certain embodiments of the substrate comprise buffer reagents in a dry-state, which
    may be re-hydrated during the extraction process. Examples of these buffers include, but are not
    limited to, 2-Amino-2-hydroxymethyl-propane-1,3-diol (Tris), 2-(N-morpholino) ethanesulfonic
    acid   (MES),     3-(N-morpholino)   propanesulfonic     acid  (MOPS),     citrate  buffers,  4-(2
 [5 hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic     acid (HEPES), phosphate buffers or combinations
    thereof As noted, the substrate provides a pH of 6 to 8 on hydration, which enables extraction
    of biomolecules from the biological samples and stabilization of the extracted biomolecules.
    The hydration may be achieved by adding a sample, water or any other solution (e.g. a buffer
    solution). One or more embodiments of the substrate provide a pH in a range from 2 to 7 on
20  hydration.    In some embodiments, the substrate provides a pH in a range from 7 to 10 on
    hydration. In one embodiment, the substrate provides a pH range from 6 to 8 upon hydration.
    [0028]      In some embodiments, the substrate further comprises at least one reducing agent,
    wherein the reducing agent is selected from the group consisting of dithiothreitol (DTT), 2
    mercaptoethanol (2-ME), tris(2-carboxyethyl) phosphine (TCEP) and combinations thereof.
                                                     8

       WO 2015/162093                                                       PCT/EP2015/058518
    [0029]     In some embodiments, the substrate comprises one or more chelating agents. The
    chelating agents may be selected from ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), citric acid,
    ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid (EGTA), or combinations thereof.
    [0030]     In some embodiments, the substrate further comprises a polysaccharide.            The
  5 polysaccharide may be selected from dextran, Ficoll@, chitosan, amylopectin, alginate,
    carboxymethyl cellulose, or combinations thereof. In one embodiment, the polysaccharide is
    Ficoll@. In one embodiment, the substrate further comprises 15% solution of IllustraTM Ready
    To-Go (RTG) components from GE Healthcare.
    [0031]     The substrate enables collection, extraction and storage of proteins or peptides
 [0 without solubilizing the substrate material. The solid substrate may be selected from the group
    consisting of a nitrocellulose membrane, a cellulose membrane, a cellulose acetate membrane, a
    regenerated cellulose membrane, a nitrocellulose mixed ester membranes, a polyethersulfone
    membrane, a nylon membrane, a polyolefin membrane, a polyester membrane, a polycarbonate
    membrane, a polypropylene membrane, a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane, a polyethylene
 [5 membrane, a polystyrene membrane, a polyurethane membrane, a polyphenylene oxide
    membrane, a poly(tetrafluoroethylene-co-hexafluoropropylene membrane, glass fiber and any
    combination of two or more of the above membranes.
    [0032]     The solid substrate may be porous. In one embodiment, the solid substrate is a porous
    cellulose paper, such as a cellulose substrate from WhatmanTM. In one example, the cellulose
20  substrate from WhatmanTM comprises 903-cellulose, FTATM or FTATM Elute.
    [0033]     As noted, the solid substrate comprises the composition in a dry state and also
    preserves the extracted proteins under dry conditions.    The use of a dry solid substrate for
    extraction and storage is advantageous over liquid-based extraction, because the dry substrate
    ensures minimal volumetric dilution of the sample applied to the substrate.      A liquid-based
                                                     9

       WO 2015/162093                                                          PCT/EP2015/058518
    extraction may dilute the concentration of the sample in an excess volume of stabilizing reagent.
    In contrast, a dry solid substrate for extracting and stabilizing biomolecules maintains the
    concentration of the sample, as well as the extracted biomolecules, and eliminates issues, such
    as sample degradation, that are related to improper dilution of sample in an insufficient volume
  5 of liquid preservative. In addition, the solid substrate comprises a fixed composition of the dry
    reagents, which enables efficient extraction of biomolecules, such as proteins, peptides or amino
    acids upon hydration, followed by stabilization of the extracted biomolecules at ambient
    temperature.
    [0034]     The terms "ambient condition" or "ambient temperature" are interchangeably used
 [0 hereinafter. As used herein, the term "ambient temperature" refers to a temperature in a range
    between 00 C to 60'C.       In one or more embodiments, the ambient temperature is room
    temperature.    In some embodiments, the substrate is configured to store or preserve proteins
    under ambient temperature in a dried state.
    [0035]     As noted, the solid substrate is configured to store or preserve proteins under dry-state
 [5 for prolonged period. The term "configured to" or "configured for" is referred to herein as the
    structure or composition of the substrate that enables the substrate to extract and store proteins
    for periods of time at ambient temperature.        The terms "storage" or "preservation" may be
    interchangeably used herein with respect to maintaining the extracted proteins in a format
    suitable for further analysis. More specifically, the proteins may be stored or preserved in a
20  solid substrate, wherein the substrate ensures maintaining the integrity of the molecules.
    [0036]     In some embodiments, the substrate is a solid phase extraction substrate. A substrate,
    where the solid phase extraction method is used, is referred to herein as a solid phase extraction
    substrate. Solid-phase extraction (SPE) technology has been leveraged to reduce the extraction
    times of high purity proteins for sequencing and other applications. The solid phase extraction
25  is an extraction method that uses a solid phase and a liquid phase to isolate one or more
                                                      10

       WO 2015/162093                                                          PCT/EP2015/058518
    molecules of the same type, or different types, from a material.         The substrate is used, for
    example, to purify a sample upstream of a chromatographic separation or other analytical
    method.
    [0037]     In some examples, the substrate permits the storage of proteins, which are prone to
  5 degradation, in a dry format (e.g., on a solid substrate) at ambient temperatures. In one or more
    embodiments, the substrate is configured to provide improved stability and elution for
    biomolecules at ambient temperatures.       In some embodiments, the substrate is configured to
    provide improved stability to the biomolecules during storage of at least one month to three
    months at ambient temperature between 20 to 22'C.
 [0 [0038]     The substrate is configured to store proteins in a dry format at ambient temperature
    under substantially intact form. The term "form" of the proteins refers to the integral structure
    or function of the proteins.
    [0039]     In some embodiments, the dried reagents impregnated in the substrate are hydrated by
    adding a buffer, water or a sample.      In one embodiment, the impregnated dried reagents are
 [5 hydrated by a sample, more specifically a biological sample, which is disposed on the substrate
    for extraction or storage of proteins. In some other embodiments, in addition to a sample, water
    or buffer is added to hydrate the substrate and reconstitute or activate the reagents embedded in
    the substrate. In some embodiments, the hydration of the substrate generates an appropriate pH
    for extraction of proteins on the substrate. In some embodiments, the hydration further results in
20  reconstituting the reagents, such as cell-lysis reagents, protein stabilizing reagents, reducing
    agents, buffer reagents that are present in a dried form in the substrate.
    [0040]     Methods for extracting, stabilizing and eluting biomolecules from a biological sample
    disposed on a solid substrate are provided herein.          An example of a method comprises
    contacting the biological sample to the substrate, wherein the substrate comprises melezitose
                                                      11

       WO 2015/162093                                                          PCT/EP2015/058518
    under a substantially dry state, and one or more lysis reagents, nucleic acid denaturing reagents
    or combinations thereof impregnated therein under a substantially dry state.         Non-limiting
    examples of the term "contacting the biological sample" include, applying a sample or disposing
    a sample on the substrate using a pipet, catheter, syringe or conduit. In some embodiments, the
  5 sample may be poured onto the substrate. The method further comprises drying the biological
    sample to a substantially dry state. For elution, the biomolecules are eluted from the biological
    sample dried on the substrate by rehydrating the substrate in an elution buffer.
    [0041]     The term "extraction" refers to any method for separating or isolating the proteins
    from a sample, more particularly from a biological sample.             The term "extraction" and
 [0 "collection" are interchangeably used herein. Biomolecules such as proteins and peptides may
    be released from a cell by cell-lysis. In one embodiment, the proteins may be released during
    evaporative cell-lysis.    In another embodiment, the cells are lysed upon contact with the
    substrate comprising cell lysis reagents. Contacting a biological sample comprising cells to the
    substrate results in cell lysis which releases proteins, for example by using FTAfm or FTATM
 [5 Elute cellulose papers.
    [0042]     As noted, the method further comprises drying the biological sample to a substantially
    dry state, wherein the dried sample may be stored on the substrate for a longer period of time.
    The solid substrate is dried using any appropriate method, such as air-drying or vacuum-drying.
    The sample dried substrate may be stored for several weeks or months, and depending on the
20  requirement, proteins or peptides may be eluted from the dried sample on the substrate.
    [0043]     In one embodiment, the method further comprises storing the extracted proteins on
    the solid substrate in a substantially dry state at ambient temperature. In some embodiments, the
    proteins may be stored for more than one month time period.             In some embodiments, the
    proteins may be stored for more than a six months period. As some of the proteins or peptides
                                                       12

       WO 2015/162093                                                          PCT/EP2015/058518
    are prone to degradation, the extraction and preservation using the substrate is useful and the
    recovered proteins or peptides may further be used for various downstream applications.
    [0044]      As noted, the method further comprises eluting the biomolecules from the biological
    sample dried on the substrate by rehydrating the substrate in an elution buffer.         The term
  5 "elution" refers to recovering the biomolecules, such as protein or peptides from the substrate by
    various means. One or more embodiments of the method comprise recovering the biomolecules
    from the substrate by solid phase extraction technique.       In one or more embodiments, the
    proteins are eluted from the solid substrate by rehydrating the substrate in an aqueous solution, a
    buffer, or an organic solution, and wherein the proteins are subjected to further analysis. Any
 [0 method that enables the elution of the biomolecules from a sample (e.g., an unpurified biological
    sample) may be employed. The proteins may be eluted by rehydrating the solid substrate (e.g.,
    cellulose paper) in an aqueous solution, a buffer solution as defined above, or an organic
    solution.    In some embodiments, the proteins are recovered from the solid substrate by
    electroelution, electrophoresis, or washing with elution buffer.
 [5 [0045]      The method delineated above may optionally include a step of washing the substrate
    before eluting the proteins from the solid substrate for further analysis.       For example, the
    substrate may be washed for one or more times with a suitable buffer or water prior to elution of
    the proteins.
    [0046]      In some embodiments, the substrate is configured to provide 70 to 90% recovery on
20  elution of the biomolecules from the substrate.          The elution is performed so that the
    biomolecules are eluted in an intact form.       In embodiments of the method, the elution of
    biomolecules does not require pre-purification of the proteins or peptides for effective
    stabilization and preservation.      The proteins or peptides may be extracted followed by
    stabilization and elution in a single step.
                                                     13

       WO 2015/162093                                                          PCT/EP2015/058518
    [0047]      As noted, the proteins or peptides, which are prone to degradation on long term
    storage may be defined in terms of percent recovery of the protein in biologically active state.
    The protein that is prone to degradation is defined as, a protein which has less than about 60%
    recovery, or has less than about 40% recovery in a biologically active state after storage in a
  5 substrate for one week at a room temperature, wherein the substrate is devoid of any reagents.
    [0048]      In some embodiments, the entire method of using the substrate, such as applying the
    biological sample, drying the sample on the substrate, storage, extraction and elution of the
    proteins or peptides from the substrate may be performed under aseptic conditions.
    [0049]      The samples utilized in this method include, but are not limited to, biological samples
 [0 such as blood, serum, tissue, and saliva obtained from any organism, including a human.
    [0050]      The extracted biomolecules may comprise proteins, peptides, amino acids, enzymes,
    antibodies, or combinations thereof.       The biomolecules may include naturally occurring
    proteins, synthetic proteins, mutated proteins, fusion proteins or chimeric proteins. The proteins
    or peptides may be chemically synthesized. In some embodiments, the proteins or peptides may
 [5 be naturally synthesized in a cell. In some embodiments, the biomolecules are recombinant
    proteins or peptides that may be isolated from cells or tissue section. The biomolecules may
    include post translationally modified proteins or peptides. The proteins may comprise enzymes
    or catalyst. The proteins, peptides or amino acids may be isolated from various sources, such as
    a bacterial source, an animal source or a human source.
20  Example 1. Preparation of paper substrate
    [0051]      Reagents: 3 1-ETF was from GE Healthcare. Paper substrates were impregnated with
    melezitose and other reagents by dipping cellulose paper (Whatman 31ETF) in warmed
    solutions of the appropriate formulations followed by drying the substrate using line oven
    conveyors.     The dried substrates were then sealed in Mylar bags with dessicant until further
                                                     14

       WO 2015/162093                                                            PCT/EP2015/058518
    testing. Four dipping formulations were prepared: (1) a 15% (on a weight-per-volume basis)
    melezitose solution, (2) a standard FTA solution also containing 15% melezitose. The standard
    FTA components comprise the following (on a weight-per-volume basis): 0.24% EDTA, 1.63%
    sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), 1.61% Tris buffer salt, and 0.56% Uric acid, (3) a 5% (on a
  5 weight-per-volume basis) Ficoll PM400, and (4) a solution contained the following percent sub
    components: 6.5% melezitose, 4.2% Ficoll PM 70, and 4.2% Ficoll PM400, referred to
    hereinafter as melezitose-Ficoll formulation.
    Example 2: Protein Stability Assay
    [0052]      Three proteins were selected for initial stability evaluation on cellulose-based
 [0 substrates: the cytokine IL-8, the cholesterol protein Apolipoprotein B (ApoB), and the enzyme
    P-galactosidase (0-gal).    IL-8 was selected as it is a representative biomarker for respiratory
    infection. ApoB was selected as a model labile protein (i.e. known short half-life on dried blood
    spots).  1 -gal was selected as a third model protein for its ability to provide direct quantification
    of enzymatic activity.
 [5 [0053]      For the evaluation of each substrate formulation, 3 mm punches of the substrates were
    individually spotted with 3 ptL of buffer or citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD)-stabilized human
    blood spiked with the protein of interest. The spike concentrations used were: 0.1 mg/mL for
    Apo B, 3.3 ng/mL for IL-8 and 10 [tg/mL for 1-gal. The spotted samples were then dried and
    stored in a low humidity environment. For ApoB and IL-8, proteins were eluted off by adding
20  an elution buffer, and the substrate was incubated under continuous shaking. The eluted protein
    was then detected using a commercial ELISA kit. For 1-gal, protein stability was determined
    using two different methods. In the first method, the protein was eluted from each substrate into
    an elution buffer and the activity of the eluted protein was measured. In the second method, a
    punch of each substrate was placed directly in analysis buffer and the enzymatic activity 'on
25  paper' was analyzed. With buffered samples, p-gal activity was assessed by the conversion of
                                                      15

       WO 2015/162093                                                        PCT/EP2015/058518
    the colorless substrate o-nitrophenyl galactoside to the yellow product o-nitrophenol.      With
    blood samples, p-gal activity was assessed by the conversion of the substrate with chlorophenol
    red galactopyranoside (CPRG) to chlorophenol red. In later studies, other proteins including IL
    1 , IL-6, and TNF-a, were processed and analyzed in a manner similar to IL-8, as described
  5 above.
    [0054]     The stability of protein in dried blood spot was determined after long-term storage at
    room temperature using 31-ETF cellulose dip-coated in an FTATM solution or in a solution of
    FTATM + 15% melezitose, and the relative stability data from both substrates are shown in Table
    1.   The data were normalized to the signal of each protein analyte on or eluted off from
 [0 unmodified 31-ETFTM cellulose.       Table 1 clearly demonstrates that inclusion of melezitose in
    either dipping formulation unexpectedly resulted in improved analyte signal relative to either
    3 1-ETFTM cellulose or FTATm substrate.       Although the magnitude of signal improvement is
    somewhat protein dependent, the highest signal was achieved for the substrate comprising
    FTATM + 15% melezitose for each analyte in this example.         Melezitose-containing substrates
 [5 show a minimum of 20-60% improvement in signal for eluted proteins when compared to
    proteins eluted from unmodified 31 -ETF m after at least a month of sample storage at ambient
    temperatures ranging from      20-22'C (Table 1). Days of storage are denoted in parentheses and
    % improvement was calculated as: (signal for test paper -signal for 31ETF)/ (signal for
    31ETF)*100.
20  Table 1: Change in protein signal relative to unmodified 3 1-ETFTM ceullulose after prolonged
    room temperature storage:
         Proteins       Assay               % Change with FTA %          Change    with
                                            + 15% melezitose        FTA
                                                     16

      WO 2015/162093                                                        PCT/EP2015/058518
        Apo B          ELISA                +29 (46)               -27 (46)
        P-gal          Enzyme activity      +23 (60)               -46 (60)
                       (on paper)
          -gal         Enzyme activity      +17 (60)               -40 (60)
                       (eluted)
        IL-8           ELISA                +64 (60)               +50 (60)
   [0055]     The FTAfm substrate contains denaturants, such as SDS, which results in negative
   values for % change in protein signal relative to 31 -ETFTM for some analytes, as shown in Table
   1. Unexpectedly, impregnating trisaccharides, such as melezitose, into the substrate results in
   improved detection signal (net positive values) in the presence of SDS during room temperature
 5 sample storage, thereby demonstrating enhanced protein stability relative to FTATM without
   melezitose.
   Example 3: Protein stability at 30'C
   [0056]     A list of formulations was selected for determining protein stability after long-term
   (90-day) sample storage. In this example, human blood samples containing analyte of interest
10 were applied to each substrate, and stored for 90 days at 30'C under low humidity conditions,
   and then protein stability was determined as described in Example 2.         All substrates were
   prepared as described above in Example 1.            Punches of the substrate formulations were
   individually dosed with IL-10 (6 pg/gL), IL-8 (7.5 ng/mL), TNF-a (8pg/gL), or 0 -gal (10
   ptg/mL) in blood and dried at room temperature as described above. Dried blood spots from the
15 selected substrates were compared with unmodified 31 -ETF cellulose after long-term storage
   (days of storage in parentheses) at 30 0 C.
                                                     17

       WO 2015/162093                                                         PCT/EP2015/058518
   [0057]      Based on ELISA or enzymatic activity data, the stabilizing effects of melezitose
   containing substrates varied with the types of protein analytes tested, however, all the analytes
   showed improved signal on substrates containing melezitose relative to 31-ETF cellulose (Table
   2).   For example, after 90 days of storage, the eluted IL-1     signal was 24% greater for the
 5 substrate containing 15% melezitose and 52% greater for the substrate containing melezitose
   Ficoll formulation than the corresponding signal from the unmodified 31-ETF.              The net
   improvement in signal for melezitose-containing substrate relative to 31-ETF cellulose after
   long-term storage at 30'C is shown in Table 2. Though 5% Ficoll PM400 alone provided a
   stabilizing effect for some proteins such as, IL-1 , IL-8, TNF-a, and 0 -gal as investigated
[0 herein, the substrates with melezitose-Ficoll formulation which comprises melezitose in
   combination with Ficoll (or similar compositions as of Ficoll) showed superior stabilizing
   effects, as shown in Table 2. In Table 2, the days of storage for all dried blood spot samples are
   shown in parentheses and % improvement calculated as: (test paper -3 1ETF)/(3 1ETF)* 100.
   Table 2: Improvement in signal for melezitose-containing substrate relative to 3 1-ETF cellulose
[5 after long-term storage at 30'C
                                                     %Improvement with
                                    melezitose
   Protein           Assay             Ficoll      5% Ficoll PM-400        15% melezitose
                                    formulation          (days)                 (days)
                                       (days)
    IL- I            ELISA            +52 (91)          +31 (91)               +24 (91)
     IL-8            ELISA            +52 (90)          +8 (90)               +34 (90)
   TNF-a             ELISA            +14 (91)          -10 (91)               +23 (91)
     3-gal     Enzymatic activity     +63 (90)         +47 (90)                +49 (90)
                   (on paper)
     3-gal     Enzymatic activity    +181 (90)         +186 (90)             +127 (90)
                    (eluted)
                                                   18

       WO 2015/162093                                                        PCT/EP2015/058518
    Example 4: Elution efficiency of P-gal from dried samples
    [0058]      ELISA signal for cytokine targets (IL-I 3, IL-8, and TNF-a) and ApoB provided a
    useful measure of the relative stabilizing effects of different cellulose substrates.    When the
    analyte signal is suppressed, it is difficult to determine whether the suppressed signal results
  5 from complete elution coupled with a substantial protein denaturation or incomplete elution of
    substantially active, non-denatured proteins. Since P-gal signal is necessarily dependent on the
    active protein, this particular analyte provided an opportunity to measure the actual elution
    efficiency of active, non-denatured protein by comparing the "on-paper" signal with the eluted
    signal.
 [0 [0059]        -gal spiked blood samples were prepared as above and the stability of proteins was
    determined for long-term storage in a manner identical to Example 3. The samples were thus
    spotted onto 3 mm substrate punches, dried, and stored at 30 0 C under low humidity condition.
    The samples were stored for 14-90 days, and approximately 50% elution improvement was
    consistently observed across this storage interval, as shown in FIG. 1. Each data point of FIG. 1
 [5 represents the ratio of eluted-to-total ("on-paper") signal of active protein as determined by a
    colorimetric enzymatic activity assay. Elution conditions were achieved by placing a 3 mm
    dried blood spot sample into a microcentrifuge tube with 100 mL buffer (PBS/0.05% Tween-20)
    and mixed thoroughly (800 rpm, 1h) before determining the elution efficiency. FIG 1 shows the
    enhanced elution efficiency of active, non-denatured 0 -gal when recovered from a substrate
20  with 150%melezitose relative to unmodified 31-ETF cellulose when measured in this manner.
    [0060]      While only certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described
    herein, many modifications and changes will occur to those skilled in the art. It is, therefore, to
    be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes
    as fall within the scope of the invention.
25
                                                     19

      WO 2015/162093                                                              PCT/EP2015/058518
    Claims:
        1.     A solid substrate for extraction, stabilization and elution of biomolecules, comprising
            a melezitose under a substantially dry state.
  5
        2.     The substrate of claim 1, wherein a concentration of melezitose is in range a of 10 to
            30%.
        3.     The substrate of claim 1 or 2, wherein the concentration of melezitose is 15%.
 [0
        4.     The substrate of claim 1, 2 or 3, further comprising one or more lysis reagents,
            biomolecule stabilizing reagents or combinations thereof, impregnated therein under a
            substantially dry state.
 [5     5.     The substrate of claim 4, wherein the lysis reagents comprise detergents, chaotropes,
            denaturants or combinations thereof, selected from thiocyanate salts, anionic detergents,
            nonionic detergents, cationic detergents, urea, or combinations thereof, preferably
            guanidinium thiocyanate,      sodium thiocyanate,        sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)          or
            combinations thereof.
 !0
        6.     The substrate of one or more of claims 1-5, further comprising a reducing agent, a
            buffer, an anti-oxidant, a chelating agent or combinations thereof, wherein the reducing
            agent   is selected    from dithiothreitol (DTT),         2-mercaptoethanol    (2-ME), tris(2
            carboxyethyl)phosphine (TCEP) or combinations thereof, and the buffer is selected from
25          2-Amino-2-hydroxymethyl-propane-1,3-diol          (Tris), 2-(N-morpholino)       ethanesulfonic
            acid (MES), 3-(N-morpholino) propanesulfonics acid (MOPS), citrate buffers, 4-(2
            hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic       acid      (HEPES),     phosphate     buffers    or
            combinations     thereof;   and   wherein     the    chelating     agent   is   selected    from
            ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), citric acid, ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid
30          (EGTA), or combinations thereof.
        7.     The substrate of one or more of the above claims,                    further comprising      a
            polysaccharide,    selected   from   dextran,    ficoll,    chitosan,  amylopectin,    alginate,
            carboxymethyl cellulose, or combinations thereof.
                                                     20

       WO 2015/162093                                                           PCT/EP2015/058518
        8.     The substrate of claim one or more of the above claims, wherein the substrate is
            selected from a nitrocellulose membrane, a cellulose membrane, a cellulose acetate
            membrane, a regenerated cellulose membrane, a nitrocellulose mixed ester membranes, a
            polyethersulfone membrane, a nylon membrane, a polyolefin membrane, a polyester
  5         membrane, a polycarbonate membrane, a polypropylene membrane, a polyvinylidene
            difluoride   membrane,     a polyethylene      membrane,     a polystyrene   membrane,    a
            polyurethane membrane, a polyphenylene oxide membrane, a poly(tetrafluoroethylene
            co-hexafluoropropylene membrane, glass fiber or combinations thereof
 [0     9.     The substrate of one or more of the above claims which is configured to provide
            improved stability and elution for biomolecules at ambient temperatures.
        10.    The substrate of one or more of the above claims which is configured to provide
            improved stability of biomolecules during storage of at least one month to three months
 [5         at ambient temperature between 20 to 22'C.
        11.    The substrate of one or more of the above claims, wherein the biomolecules comprise
            proteins, peptides, amino acids, enzymes, catalysts or combinations thereof.
 !0     12.    A solid substrate for collection, stabilization and elution of biomolecules, comprising:
            a trisaccharide under a substantially dry state selected from melezitose, raffinose,
            maltotriulose, isomaltotriose, nigerotriose, maltotriose, ketose or combinations thereof.
25      13.    A method for extracting, stabilizing and eluting biomolecules from a biological
            sample disposed on a solid substrate, comprising:
                contacting the biological sample to the substrate, wherein the substrate comprises
    melezitose impregnated therein under a substantially dry state;
                drying the biological sample to a substantially dry state; and
30              eluting the biomolecules from the biological sample dried on the substrate by
    rehydrating the substrate in an elution buffer.
        14.    The method of claim 13, wherein the substrate is configured to provide 70 to 90%
            recovery of the biomolecules from the substrate.
                                                      21

    WO 2015/162093                                                            PCT/EP2015/058518
     15.     The method of claim 13 or 14,, wherein the substrate is configured to elute
         biomolecules in an intact form.
  5  16.     The method of claim 13, 14 or 15, wherein the substrate comprises cellulose.
     17.     The method of one or more of claims 13-16, wherein the melezitose is present in a
         concentration in a range of 10 to 30%, preferably in a concentration of 15%.
 [0  18.     The method of one or more of claims 13-17, wherein the substrate further comprises
         one or more lysis reagents, nucleic acid denaturing reagents and combinations thereof,
         wherein the lysis reagent is selected from thiocyanate salts, detergents, urea or
         combinations thereof, preferably lysis reagent is selected from guanidinium thiocyanate,
         sodium thiocyanate, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), arginine, urea or combinations
 [5      thereof.
     19.     The method of one or more of claims 13-18, wherein the substrate further comprises a
         polysaccharide     selected   from     dextran,   ficoll, chitosan,  amylopectin,   alginate,
         carboxymethyl cellulose or combinations thereof, preferably 1 to 10% ficoll.
 !0
     20.     The method of one or more of claims 13-19, wherein the substrate further comprises
         reducing agents, buffers, anti-oxidants, chelating agents or combinations thereof
         impregnated therein, wherein the reducing agent is selected from dithiothreitol (DTT), 2
         mercaptoethanol     (2-ME),     tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine     (TCEP)   or  combinations
25       thereof, wherein the buffer is selected from 2-Amino-2-hydroxymethyl-propane-1,3-diol
         (Tris), 2-(N-morpholino) ethanesulfonic acid (MES), 3-(N-morpholino) propanesulfonic
         acid   (MOPS),     citrate  buffers,    4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic    acid
         (HEPES), phosphate buffers or combinations thereof, and wherein the chelating agent is
         selected from ethylenediaminetetraacetic        acid (EDTA), citric acid, ethylene glycol
30       tetraacetic acid (EGTA), or combinations thereof.
                                                     22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
