                                         Abstract
        A collar with an ultra-wideband radar is described. A housing contains sensor
electronics and the transmit and receive antennas are located separate from the housing
around the circumference of the collar. A first example of the collar includes a first transmit
antenna and a first receive antenna. A second example of the collar adds a second transmit
antenna and a second receive antenna.

                                                 1
               Animal Health and Wellness Monitoring using UWB Radar
Related Application Information
[0001]    This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014353503
          filed on 9 May 2014. Australian Patent Application No. 2014353503 claims priority
          to US Serial No. 14/086,721, filed on November 21, 2013, which in turn claims
          priority to US Serial No. 61/729,298, filed on November 21, 2012, the contents of
          each of the above mentioned are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Background
1.     Technical Field
[0002]    Aspects of this disclosure relate to the use of radar in monitoring physiological
          conditions of mammals.
2.     Related Art
[0003]    Animals, like humans, can suffer from injury or illness, negatively impacting their
          health. Timely detection of changes in health through either regular or event driven
          episodic monitoring of physiological processes can enable veterinary intervention,
          potentially reducing the effects of an adverse condition, improving the quality of life,
          and prolonging life. In particular, cardiac and respiratory monitoring provides useful
          information on the health of an animal and these types of information are commonly
          used to diagnose, treat, and manage the animal.
[0004]    Animals can represent a large financial and often, emotional investment. Health
          monitoring can help optimize veterinary care to protect that investment and provide
          peace of mind to the owner. Monitoring is applicable to a wide range of animals,
          including feed stock, breeding stock, exotic/endangered species, animal athletes,
          performing animals, and domestic pets. Monitoring can be accomplished whether the
          animal is in the wild, in captivity (e.g. a zoo or animal park), in a pasture or free
          range, in a barn or stable, at home or in the yard, in a pen or a crate.
[0005]    Animal health monitoring is challenging. Many familiar sensor technologies - e.g.
          ECG, pulse oxygen, ultrasound, and temperature, require direct skin contact, making
          them impractical for use with animals having fur or feathers. They may

                                             la
         also require that the sensor be positioned on a specific location on the body which
         again may be impractical. For example, assuming prior removal of the fur, pulse
14016919 1

       ox sensors typically need to be placed on thin anatomical structures such as ears,
       making them prone to loss through scratching, rubbing, or shaking. Similarly,
       ECG sensors are usually placed on the torso, in proximity to the heart and the
       Einthoven triangle, making them prone to loss through scratching, rubbing, or
       shaking. Finally, there is no sensor currently available that is capable of providing
       a direct, unobtrusive      measurement of respiration -        a needed metric in
       understanding and managing animal health.
[0006] The monitoring of respiration is currently under-appreciated in veterinary care and
       there are only a handful of researchers in the country studying/teaching animal
       pulmonology. This lack of integration into veterinary medicine is in contrast to the
       body of published information dating back several decades concerning the role of
       respiratory symptoms in the diagnosis and treatment of animal cardiac and
       respiratory disease. One of the obstacles in integrating respiratory monitoring into
       veterinary practice is the lack of appropriate non-invasive sensors. Most
       veterinarians are forced to rely on manual observations - watching the animal, to
       obtain respiratory data. These observations are of limited use and complicated by
       the visit to the vet as this usually leads to animal anxiety and elevated
       cardiopulmonary functions that are not representative of the animal's true
       underlying health. Respiratory monitoring is not viewed as an important
       parameter because of the difficulty in obtaining accurate data.
[0007] Respiratory monitoring in the animal's nature environment - e.g. at home for a pet
       or in a pasture for a horse or cow, would be a benefit to veterinary medicine as the
       data would be more representative of the animal's actual state of health. This data
       could be used to help treat animals with known medical problems as well as
       identify animals that may be developing medical problems. There are a number of
       medical problems that exhibit respiratory symptoms, including heart disease, heart
       murmur, pulmonary edema, pulmonary fibrosis, sleep apnea, COPD, asthma,
       larynx paralysis, kennel cough (bordetella), and others. Specific to domestic pets,
       respiratory monitoring would be important with brachycephalic dogs - breeds with
       short muzzles such as bulldogs, cavaliers, pugs, Boston terriers, Boxers,
       Pekingese, shih tzu, etc. These breeds have a high incidence of respiratory
       problems and are inefficient "panters", leading to inflamed respiratory tracts and
       laryngeal problems as well as making them much more susceptible to heat stroke.
                                           2

       Timely identification of respiratory distress would enable earlier and less
       complicated/expensive intervention and reduce the risk to the animal.
[0008] As discussed above, many medical monitoring technologies are impractical or
       unusable with animals. Doppler radar approaches, whether CW or pulsed, have
       been investigated as a technique for collecting cardiopulmonary data. They have
       generally relied on off-body or non-contact monitoring where the Doppler radar
       sensor is separated from the subject by an air gap and thus, does not make direct
       contact with the patient. Due to the large difference between the relative dielectric
       properties of the primary propagation medium (air, where cr    = 1) and living tissue
       (cr ~ 50), most of the RF energy is reflected at the skin surface with little energy
       propagating into the interior of the body to interrogate the internal organs. Any
       energy that does propagate into the torso and is subsequently reflected by the
       internal organs is greatly reduced by internal tissue absorption as well as a second
       transition across the skin-air boundary, resulting in little energy from the
       anatomical target making it back to the receiver. Low returns equate to marginal
       data.
[0009] A common technique for isolating a specific physiological process involves
       combining Doppler with auto-correlation. Auto-correlation samples the time
       domain waveform and correlates the Nth pulse with a period of time after the Nth
       pulse where the period is centered on the anticipated rate of the specific
       physiological process under review based on the Doppler results. High correlation
       coefficients equate to greater confidence that the system has locked onto the
       specific physiological process. An externally defined threshold is often used to
       determine adequate correlations and thus, sufficient target acquisition.
[0010] Because of the strong surface component associated with respiration (typically 1
       cm chest wall displacement in an average adult male), off-body techniques can
       collect reasonable pulmonary data but those physiological processes that do not
       have strong surface components, such as cardiac activity, are difficult to detect
       and measure with Doppler. Another limitation of Doppler is its general inability to
       distinguish motion associated with more than one physiological process when
       those processes operate at similar rates. For example, in subjects experiencing
       bradycardia, the cardiac rate will approach and sometime drop below the
                                           3

          respiratory rate, making it difficult for Doppler to distinguish the two processes
          from each other.
Summary
[0011]    Once or more aspects relate to a collar with an ultra-wideband radar. A housing
          contains sensor electronics and the transmit and receive antennas are located
          separate from the housing around the circumference of the collar. A first example
          of the collar includes a first transmit antenna and a first receive antenna. A second
          example of the collar adds a second transmit antenna and a second receive
          antenna. The antennas may be positioned to obtain position and movement
          information from various internal structures including a carotid artery, a jugular
          vein, and muscles surrounding an esophagus and trachea.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0012]    Figure 1 is an illustrative example of a monostatic radar on the neck of an animal
          in accordance with one or more embodiments.
[0013]    Figure 2 is an illustrative example of a bistatic radar on the neck of an animal in
          accordance with one or more embodiments.
[0014]    Figure 3A is a first illustrative example of a multistatic radar on the neck of an
          animal in accordance with one or more embodiments. Figure 3B shows signal
          paths for the multistatic radar of Figure 3A.
[0015]    Figure 4A is a second illustrative example of a multistatic radar on the neck of an
          animal in accordance with one or more embodiments. Figure 4B shows signal
          paths for the multistatic radar of Figure 4A.
[0016]    Figure 5A shows an illustrative example of a multistatic radar on a narrow neck of
          an animal in accordance with one or more embodiments. Figure 5B shows signal
          paths for the multistatic radar of Figure 5A.
[0017]    Figures 6A and 6B are charts showing cardiac and respiratory rates from a sternal
          position of a UWB sensor on an animal in accordance with one or more
          embodiments.
[0018]    Figures 7A and 7B are charts showing cardiac and respiratory rates from a right
          carotid position of the UWB sensor
                                               4

[0019]    Figures 8A and 8B are charts showing cardiac and respiratory rates from right
          larynx position of the UWB sensor
[0020]    Figures 9A and 9B are charts showing cardiac and respiratory rates from posterior
          neck position of the UWB sensor
[0021]    Figures 10A and 1GB are charts showing cardiac and respiratory rates from right
          femoral position of the UWB sensor
[0022]    Figures 11 A and 11 B are charts showing cardiac and respiratory rates from right
          shoulder position of the UWB sensor
[0023]    Figure 12 shows an illustrative example of a UWB sensor.
Detailed Description
[0024]    The following description relates to configurations of ultra-wideband (UWB)
          sensors for obtaining physiological information from mammals. Specifically,
          aspects of the disclosure pertain to the use of UWB sensors as medical radar to the
          extent they use very low power Ultra Wide Band (UWB) radio frequency (RF)
          energy. In practice, the UWB           medical radar emits a narrow pulse of
          electromagnetic energy, which propagates into a body. As the energy enters the
          body, small amounts of the incident energy are reflected back to the device. The
          reflections are due to the differences in dielectric properties of the illuminated
          tissues and organs. The reflected energy is then received and processed using
          application-specific signal processing algorithms to extract information on the
          type, location, size, and motion of the illuminated tissues and organs. It is
          appreciated that the greater the dielectric constant between illuminated tissues and
          organs increases the reflection (or backscatter) of the electromagnetic pulse.
[0025]    Examples of UWB medical radar systems are found, for instance, in US Patent
          No. 7,725,150 to Tupin, Jr. et al. and US Patent No. 8,463,361 to Tupin, Jr., both
          assigned to LifeWave, Inc. of Los Altos, California, whose contents are expressly
          incorporated by reference to their entirety.
[0026]    Ultra-wideband radar overcomes one of the limitations found with Doppler radar
          because of the extremely fine radial resolution (<5 mm) inherent with UWB radar,
          allowing the UWB sensor to more easily isolate different physiological processes
          based on their unique locations within the patient. The sensor can focus on one or
          more depths using traditional range sweep techniques and, if the sensor is
                                               5

       configured as an array, further focal processing techniques based on beam
       steering and beam-forming can be applied.
[0027] A contact-based UWB medical sensor for monitoring the health of animals has
       several distinct advantages over Doppler and off-body monitoring. The UWB
       radar does not need direct skin contact or coupling gels, allowing it to collect
       useful physiological data through fur or feathers yet by maintaining contact with
       fur or feathers. As such, the large reflective losses associated with the skin-air
       interface   are significantly reduced.    Second, assuming the electronics      are
       sufficiently protected from the environment (e.g., sealed against rain and moisture
       or otherwise moisture resistant), the radar may operate when wet or dirty.
[0028] For instance, a UWB radar system may be placed on an animal's collar as shown
       in Figure 1. Figure 1 shows a cross-sectional view of an animal's neck and the
       collar being worn by the animal. The UWB radar system of Figure 1 includes
       sensor electronics 101 in a housing and antennas 103 including a transmit antenna
       104 and a receive antenna 105. The antennas 104 and 105 may be placed together
       in a singular housing 103a or may be housed separately. One advantage of
       housing the antennas 104 and 105 together is that the direction each antenna faces
       may be fixed with respect to the other antenna.
[0029] These components of the UWB radar system may be co-located at a single
       location or may be placed around the collar 102 as shown in Figure 1 and
       connected by wires, cables, traces on a circuit board (rigid or flexible), or other
       known electrical connecting techniques. If co-located, an example of a size of the
       combination of the antennas 104 and 105 and the sensor electronics 101 may be
       7.4 cm x 2.3 cm x 1.8 cm and weigh 29 g.
[0030] The UWB radar system monitors movement of different structures based on their
       different dielectric constants relative to surrounding structures or tissues. The
       change in location of the interfaces between these structures is monitored by the
       UWB radar system and is subsequently analyzed through known analysis
       techniques of UWB radar signals.
[0031] Aspects of this disclosure relate to configurations of the UWB radar system to
       provide improved signals for analysis. For reference, Figure 1 shows the animal's
       neck 108 with skin 109, trachea 110 with surrounding muscles 111,              112,
                                            6

       esophagus 113 with surrounding muscles 114, 115, carotid arteries 116, 117,
       jugular veins 118, 119, spinal column 122, and various other muscles (including
       lower muscle groups 120, 121, and upper muscle groups 123 and 124).
[0032] In one example, the UWB radar system with sensor electronics 101 and antennas
        103 may be co-located (namely, the sensor electronics          101 module being
       positioned radially outward from antennas 103 relative to neck 109) as a
       monostatic radar structure and hang off collar at a bottom-most position 107
       relative to the animal's neck 108, closest to the trachea 110.
[0033] In another example, as shown in the configuration of Figure 1, sensor electronics
        101 are positioned at the top of the neck 108 with the antennas 103 located on the
       side of neck 108, also as a monostatic radar structure. Here, by placing transmit
       antenna 104 and receive antenna 105 closer to carotid artery 116 and jugular vein
        118, the beam from the transmit antenna 104 and returning to receive antenna 105
       may encounter fewer dialectically different structures when located at the position
       shown in Figure 1 then when located at position 107. This reduction in the number
       of dialectically different structures reduces backscatter signals from those
       different structures.
[0034] As depicted, collar 102 may include a counterweight             106 that may be
       approximately the weight of antennas 103 balance the UWB radar system and
       attempt to maintain antennas 103 at their side placement around the neck 108.
[0035] Alternatively or in addition to counterweight 106, a tensioner may be used to
       maintain a relatively constant tension on collar 102 to help position antennas 103
       on the side of the neck 108.
[0036] Further, as larger animals have stronger neck muscles (for instance muscles 123,
        124), these muscles in some instances may form a recess 125 upward of spinal
       column 122. The inside shape of sensor electronics 101 may be convex to allow at
       least some nestling in the concave recess formed by muscle groups 123 and 124.
[0037] By placing antennas 103 and aside position as shown in Figure 1, accurate
       readings from the animal's carotid artery 116 and/or jugular vein 118 may be
       obtained. Depending on the type of animal, the antennas 103 may be angled
       relative to neck 108 and/or to each other to allow for illumination of relevant
       structures and collection of backscattered signals from those structures. For
                                            7

       instance, to concentrate solely on carotid artery 116, the receive antenna 105 may
       be moved closer to transmit antenna 104 to receive the stronger backscatter
       signals roughly in line with the radiated beam from transmit antenna 104 plan.
       Alternatively, to concentrate on carotid artery 116 and the movement of muscles
       114 and 115 surrounding esophagus 113, receive antenna 105 may be moved
       farther away from transmit antenna 104. Further, to also include signals from the
       movement of muscles 111 and 112 surrounding trachea 110, the receive antenna
       105 may be moved further from transmit antenna 104. In these examples, the
       various muscle groups may be monitored surrounding the trachea 110 as the
       trachea's cartilage may not reflect the UWB pulses and the movement of the
       cartilage is not detectable directly.
[0038] In many applications across a range of species, the UWB radar sensor can be
       placed within or on a collar or harness where the choice of the garment and
       specific sensor placement upon or within the garment is driven by the desired
       medical data, the need to locate the sensor in the proximity of the key primary and
       alternative secondary anatomical structures required to obtain the desired data,
       and the need to secure the sensor to the animal such that it is unlikely to be
       dislodged or removed during normal activity. In addition, the shape of the sensor
       and its antennas can be modified to take advantage of the anatomy to assist with
       placement and maintain position.
[0039] Actual signal processing and display of results does not have to be co-located with
       the sensor and in fact, remote processing and display might be highly desirable.
       The data can be processed (partially or completely) locally using an embedded
       processor (for instance, microcontroller or discrete signal processor) or wirelessly
       transferred to another processing platform - dedicated base station, smart phone,
       tablet, PC, or the cloud using a conventional wireless transfer system (transmitter
       in the sensor electronics 101 to transmit a signal to of receiver over, for instance a
       Wi-Fi connection). The display can be a digital readout on a panel built into the
       base station or take advantage of the GUI capabilities of any number of consumer
       electronics.
[0040] Of the various limitations described herein, a collar 102 allows collection of basic
       cardiopulmonary data without the need to be directly over the heart and lungs. The
       collar with its UWB radar system collects data primarily from the carotid arteries
                                             8

       in the neck, as well as physiological data associated with motion of the larynx,
       trachea, and esophagus. Data from these structures enables monitoring of
       consumption - i.e. food and water, vomiting and regurgitation, as well as enabling
       the detection of choking and vocalization - e.g. barking, or other processes
       involving the larynx and trachea based on analyses of received signals including
       identification of the frequency components of the signals, the magnitude of those
       frequency components, and how those signals change over time. Other sensor
       technologies may be added to the assembly to support data fusion for improved
       accuracy, reliability, and noise reduction.
[0041] Further, an additional counterweight (e.g., the animal's tag or other collar
       attachment) may be provided at location 107 to provide a weight that may further
       aid in aligning the sensor electronics 101 and antennas 103.
[0042] Figure 2 shows another configuration of sensor electronics 201 and the antennas.
       In Figure 2, transmit antenna 204 is located on a first side of neck 108 and receive
       antenna 205 is located on a symmetrically opposite side of neck 108. Here, the
       antennas 204 and 205 may be symmetrically distributed around the circumference
       of the neck 108 to maintain an even weight distribution on collar 202. One
       example of this configuration would have the sensor electronics 101 in the
       depression over the spinous process 125 - see Figures 1 and 2, enabling easy and
       consistent placement of the sensor electronics 201. Unlike the anterior of the neck
       where many animals have a wattle and are sensitive to any object, this location
       typically has less fat tissue, less loose skin, and has less anatomical variation
       within a specific species or breed.
[0043] The configuration of transmit antenna 204 being separate from receive antenna
       205 Figure 2 is commonly referred to as a bistatic radar architecture. In the
       minimal separation case, both the TX and RX antennas may be located along the
       spine while in the limit, they could be located on either side of the larynx.
[0044] In Figure 2, the receive antenna 205 may receive backscatter from some structures
       inside neck 108. For structures that have a strong dielectric difference from
       surrounding structures, the amplitude of the backscatter signals may predominate
       the received collection of signals. However for structures that have a less
       significant   dielectric difference   from surrounding structures, the resultant
                                            9

       backscatter from these less significant dielectric differences is weaker. Thus, when
       attempting to monitor movement of different structures relative to each other
       where the dielectric constants of these structures are relatively close to one
       another, monitoring backscatter signals is more difficult. In this situation,
       monitoring signal modification (signal amplification, attenuation, polarization,
       retardation or advancement, and the like) with a receive antenna 205 generally
       facing transmit antenna 204 is preferable.
[0045] The above bistatic of Figure 2, configuration could be expanded to a multistatic
       configuration with a corresponding increase in weight, cost of goods, and power
       consumption. As shown in Figure 3A, the sensor may include two radar channels
       303 and 306, each consisting of a TX and RX pair (304/305 and 307/308,
       respectively), where one radar channel interrogates the right side of the neck and
       one radar channel interrogates the left side.
[0046] This configuration takes advantage of the symmetry in the neck to improve signal
       reception while reducing common noise. More radar channels may be added for
       additional performance improvements.
[0047] As shown in Figure 3B, radar channel 1 303 is shown on the left side of Figure 3A
       and radar channel 2 306 is shown on the right side of Figure 3A. The backscatter
       signal 309 of radar channel 1 303 from transmit antenna 304 enters and then
       returns back through the side of neck 108 to receive antenna 305. Similarly, the
       backscatter signal 310 of radar channel 2 306 from transmit antenna 307 enters
       and then returns back through side 306 of neck 108 to receive antenna 308. Also,
       receive antenna 308 receives attenuation signal 311 (from radar channel 1 to radar
       channel 2) as originally transmitted from transmit antenna 304. Likewise, receive
       antenna 305 receives attenuation signal 312 (from radar channel 2 to radar channel
       1) as originally transmitted from transmit antenna 307.
[0048] To permit attenuation signals 311 and 312 to be received and used by sensor
       electronics 301, common timing signals used to control the transmission of the
       UWB pulses in the multistatic UWB radar system are used in radar channel 1 and
       radar channel 2. For instance, when transmit antenna 304 has finished
       transmitting, both receive antenna 305 and receive antenna 308 may both be
       active (in accordance with the same or a temporally adjusted timing signal) in
                                           10

       receiving signals scattered and/or modified by the combination of various
       structures in neck 108. Alternatively, transmit antenna 304 and transmit antenna
       307 may transmit simultaneously in accordance with the same or temporally
       adjusted timing signal with one of receive antenna 305 or receive antenna 308 also
       being active (and likewise being responsive to the same or temporally adjusted
       timing signal). Finally, transmit antenna 304 and transmit antenna 307 may both
       transmit simultaneously and receive antenna 305 and receive antenna 308 may
       both receive signals simultaneously with all operations coordinated through the
       same or temporally adjusted timing signal. The purpose using the same or
       temporally adjusted timing signal in sensor electronics 301 is to provide temporal
       coherence for the operations of radar channel 1 303 and radar channel 2 306.
[0049] Figure 4A shows a similar structure to that of Figure 3A in which sensor
       electronics 401 controls radar channel 1 403 (with transmit antenna 404 and
       receive antenna 405) and greater channel 2 406 (with transmit antenna 407 and
       receive antenna 408). Here, the locations of the transmit antenna and receive
       antenna of radar channel 2 406 are flipped relative to the locations of transmit
       antenna 404 and receive antenna 405. While backscatter signal 409 of radar
       channel 1 is similar to that shown in Figure 3B, backscatter signal 410 is reflected
       more upwards then backscatter signal 310 of Figure 3B (which is reflected more
       downwards). Also, attenuation signal 411 from transmit antenna 404 to receive
       antenna 408 is generally more horizontal than attenuation signal 311. Similarly,
       attenuation signal 412 from transmit antenna 4072 receive antenna 405 is also
       generally more horizontal than attenuation signal 412.
[0050] As with the sensor electronics 301 of Figure 3A, sensor electronics 401 of Figure
       4A may also use temporally coherent timing signals to allow the multistatic
       operation of the transmit and receive antenna components of Figure 4A.
[0051] Figure 5A shows a configuration similar to that of Figure 4A but with an animal
       having a narrower neck 108. Figure 5A shows collar 502, sensor electronics 501
       (with the common timing reference providing temporal coherence among radar
       channel 1 503 and radar channel 2 506), transmit antennas 504 and 507, receive
       antennas 505 and 508. Figure 5B shows backscatter signals 509 and 510 and
       attenuation signals 511 and 512.
                                          11

[0052] In all cases (including monstatic, bistatic, and multistatic), the location,
       orientation, and antenna characteristics of the paired TX and RX antennas for each
       radar channel may be designed to allow convergence of the TX and RX antenna
       bore sights onto the anatomical structure of interest while maintaining sufficient
       beamwidth at the structure of interest.
[0053] As described above, a counterweight may be integrated to minimize the potential
       for collar rotation while a tensioning device (springs or clips or elastically
       deformable materials) may be added to maintain constant pressure against the
       animal's neck 108, minimizing the noise caused by motion at the sensor/skin
       interface. Also, it is important to note that the sensor electronics and antennas do
       not need to be co-located as the electronics can connect to the antennas via cables
       or flexible circuit boards. Either of these connection techniques can be embedded
       into the collar itself as long as the connecting media is relatively homogeneous to
       minimize RF reflections.
[0054] A harness - e.g. a modified walking harness, has the advantage of allowing one or
       more radars to interrogate various anatomical regions of interest or to enable more
       sophisticated signal processing by isolating on a particular organ. For example, if
       the UWB radar sensor has at least one channel proximal to the heart, advanced
       cardiac biometrics can be obtained, including stroke volume, cardiac output, and
       changes in blood pressure. Similarly, if the UWB radar sensor has one channel
       proximal to main right and left nodes of the lungs, the system can check for
       asymmetrical breathing patterns.
[0055] The UWB radar is not limited to the torso for collecting cardiopulmonary data as
       there are many alternative locations on the animal that can be exploited,
       particularly for obtaining cardiac data. For example, good quality cardiac data can
       be collected by positioning the UWB sensor in proximity of the carotid arteries to
       take advantage of the expansion and contraction in the radius of the arteries
       throughout the cardiac cycle. In addition, positioning the sensor on the neck has
       been shown to provide reasonable and quantifiable respiratory information.
[0056] Various porcine animal models (weights between 30-50 kg) have been studied
       thank you to develop new human cardiopulmonary monitoring systems. In these
       studies, a UWB radar sensor was placed to the left of the animal's sternum,
                                             12

       proximal to the heart and collected cardiopulmonary data in parallel with other
       reference monitors. Data from the UWB radar sensor was processed with
       proprietary signal processing algorithms and the results correlated against the data
       from the reference monitors to determine the efficacy of the radar sensor. The
       UWB sensor demonstrated the ability to measure cardiac and pulmonary rate,
       detect changes in cardiac stroke volume, measure CPR compressions, and
       determine the status of the circulatory system across a variety of cardiac
       conditions.
[0057] Most recently, the ability of the sensor to measure cardiopulmonary rates in small
       animals using dogs weighing less than 10 kg as the test subjects has been studied.
       This ability along with the capabilities previously demonstrated and described
       above, enables a variety of animal monitoring applications. During the tests, the
       cardiac rate was manually observed to be approximately 65 BPM, while the
       respiration rate was manually observed to be approximately 20 BPM.
[0058] In the first test, the UWB radar sensor was placed on the left side of the animal's
       rib cage, approximately level with the heart while the animal was prone. As can be
       seen in Figures 6A and 6B, the cardiac rate and pulmonary rate as calculated with
       an FFT were readily discernible and matched manual measurements.
[0059] In the second test, the UWB radar sensor was placed on the right side of the
       animal's neck, over the carotid artery with the axis of the sensor parallel to the
       longitudinal axis of the artery. As can be seen in Figures 7A and 7B, the cardiac
       rate and pulmonary rate as calculated with an FFT were readily discernible and
       matched manual measurements.
[0060] In the third test, the UWB radar sensor was placed on the right side of the
       animal's neck, immediately adjacent to the larynx with the axis of the sensor
       parallel to the longitudinal axis of the trachea. As can be seen in Figures 8A and
       8B, the cardiac rate and pulmonary rate as calculated with an FFT were readily
       discernible and matched manual measurements. This position is particularly
       interesting because it also provides a view of the larynx, trachea, and esophagus.
[0061] In the fourth test, the UWB radar sensor was placed on the posterior of the
       animal's neck, immediately over the spinous process with the axis of the sensor
       parallel to the longitudinal axis of the spine. As can be seen in Figures 9A and 9B,
                                            13

       the cardiac rate and pulmonary rate as calculated with an FFT were readily
       discernible and matched manual measurements.
[0062] In the fifth test, the UWB radar sensor was placed on the right hind leg,
       immediately over the right femoral artery and below the pelvic joint, with the axis
       of the sensor parallel to the longitudinal axis of the artery. As can be seen in
       Figures I0A and 1OB, the pulmonary rate as calculated with an FFT was readily
       discernible and matched manual measurements. The cardiac rate was less
       discernible and somewhat obscured by other noise sources.
[0063] In the sixth test, the UWB radar sensor was placed on the right fore leg,
       immediately over the right auxiliary artery and below the shoulder joint, with the
       axis of the sensor parallel to the longitudinal axis of the artery. As can be seen in
       Figures 11 A and 1 IB, the pulmonary rate as calculated with an FFT was readily
       discernible and matched manual measurements. The cardiac rate was less
       discernible and somewhat obscured by other noise sources.
[0064] To summarize these basic cardiopulmonary tests with the UWB medical radar on
       a canine model, the cardiac and pulmonary rates as calculated from the UWB
       radar data were generally discernible and matched manual measurements. In
       several instances, the cardiac rate was less discernible than pulmonary and
       somewhat obscured by other noise sources, potentially including muscle twitch
       from the animal and the researcher holding the sensor in position. Similarly, in
       several instances, the pulmonary rate varied slightly over 2-3BPM, most likely
       due to the resolution of the FFT (~0.732BPM) and the expected variability in
       respiration from its voluntary component (observed as minor breath-holding). It is
       interesting to note that the strength of the cardiac signal was typically 10-13dB
       below that of the pulmonary signal while neck and torso positions produced more
       discernible cardiopulmonary data with minimal noise.
[0065] Figure 12 shows a conventional configuration for a UWB radar system as known
       in the art. The UWB radar system of US patent no. 7,725,150 is incorporated
       herein by reference. The controller 1201 generates the timing and control signals
       1201a, 1201b, 1201c, 1201d, and 1201e to synchronize and manage the rest of the
       system. It also accepts internal feedback signals from the other subsystems,
       accepts external control inputs from an operator, and has the capability of
                                           14

       providing data outputs to the operator or medical record system. The controller
       can be realized using an integrated processor and associated circuitry.
[0066] Based on timing and control signals 1201a from the controller 1201, the pulse
       repetition frequency (PRF) generator 1202 creates the baseband pulse train used
       by the transmitter 1203 and, after range delay At 1205, by the receiver 1206.
       Alternately, both the transmitter 1203 and the receiver 1206 may receive a
       delayed signal from the pulse repetition frequency generator 1202. Further, the
       delay applied to either or both of the transmitter 1203 and the receiver 1206 may
       be fixed or variable.
[0067] Since the pulse train is common to both the transmitter and receiver subsystems
       and allows them to operate synchronously, the system is a time-coherent radar
       system. In practice, a voltage-controlled oscillator (VCO) operating at a nominal
       but only exemplary output frequency of 2 MHz in or associated with the PRF
       generator supplies the pulse train. Randomized pulse-to-pulse dither can be added
       to the output of generator 2 by injecting a noise signal from a noise signal source
       (not shown) into the VCO control port. The random dither causes spectral
       spreading to reduce the probability of interfering with other electronic devices as
       well as provide a unique transmit coding pattern per unit, allowing multiple units
       to operate in close proximity without substantial concern for mutual interference.
[0068] Transmitter 1203 generates a series of low-voltage, short-duration pulses 1203a
       (in one embodiment, less than 200 ps) based on the pulse train from the PRF
       generator 1202. In practice, differentiating the edges of a pulse train having
       extremely fast rising and falling edges creates the sub-nanosecond pulses.
       Through the combination of the transmitter and the antenna, the short duration
       pulses are converted into an ultra-wide band spectrum signal centered in the
       RF/microwave frequency bands in accordance with FCC R&O 02-48.
[0069] In one embodiment, the transmitter 1203 and receiver 1206 share a common
       antenna 1204. In another embodiment, the antennas are separated into transmit
       antenna 1204a and receive antenna 1204b. For the transmitter, the antenna 1204a
       couples the short pulses from the transmitter 1203 to the environment, as
       illustrated at A, to a patient. Subsequently, reflections B are received from the
       environment and fed to the receiver 1206. Various antenna configurations may be
                                           15

       used including: commercially available horns and flat resonators, simple magnetic
       dipoles, and a magnetic dipole or "loop" antenna(s) with a diameter selected to
       optimize the transmission and reception of UWB signals. For example, a loop
       antenna with a diameter of 4 cm fabricated from 24-gauge solid copper wire was
       used in conjunction with a UWB system operating with a 10 dB bandwidth of 1.5
       Ghz to 3.4 Ghz.
[0070] Based on timing and control signals 120 1b from the controller 1201 and the pulses
       originating from the PRF generator 1202, the range delay At 1205 generates a
       delayed version of the PRF timing signal. The output of the range delay triggers a
       sample-and-hold circuit, described subsequently, in the receiver 1206 where the
       delay value is chosen to compensate for fixed electrical delays within the system
       and focus data collection to those reflections originating from a specific depth
       within the body. The range delay is extremely flexible and, in conjunction with
       the controller, can generate a large range of delay profiles to accommodate a
       variety of signal processing requirements.
[0071] There are two delay modes used to collect medical data--range gate mode and
       range finder mode. In range gate mode, the depth within the body that corresponds
       to the area for which physiological data is to be extracted is fixed and a large
       number of samples are collected at that depth over a period of multiple seconds in
       one example, providing information on relative changes within the body. The
       depth can then be changed and the process repeated. In contrast, when operating
       in range finder mode, the depth is swept repeatedly over a finite range of interest,
       with samples collected at each depth. Range gate mode provides detailed
       information at the depth of interest while range finder mode is used to quickly
       collect data over a range of depths. A range delay circuit supports both range gate
       and range finder modes. In practice, the range delay circuit can be realized using a
       12-bit digital-to-analog converter (DAC), an operational amplifier, used to realize
       functions, and a one-shot multivibrator. The one-shot multivibrator (an LMC555
       can be used, as one example) generates a delayed version of the transmitted pulse
       train in response to signals received on its two control inputs--trigger and hold-off.
       The pulse train from the PRF generator 1202 is the trigger signal and causes the
       one-shot multivibrator to initiate a single pulse cycle for each pulse in the pulse
       train. The hold-off voltage determines the period of the pulse. By varying the
                                           16

       hold-off voltage, different pulse periods, and thus different delay values, can be
       generated. The amount of delay is set by both analog and digital controls. The
       analog controls set the minimum delay value and the allowable range of control
       while the digital controls are used to dynamically adjust the actual delay value,
       delay sweep rate, and resolution of delay control.
[0072] In practice, a 12-bit data value--Datax, corresponding to the desired delay is sent
       from the controller 1201 to the DAC. The DAC produces a voltage Vx where: Vx
       =4.096 Volts x (Datax/4096).
       The DAC output voltage and a DC voltage are added together in a summing
       junction and the sum is amplified and fed to the hold-off control input of the one
       shot. The DC voltage level, in conjunction with the amplifier gain, set the
       minimum delay value and the allowable range of control. Both the DC voltage
       level and gain settings are controlled by manual adjustment of potentiometers. A
       delay range of 5 ns has been proven to yield good quantitative data in
       cardiopulmonary applications and corresponds to a depth range of approximately
        12 cm into the body. Other delay range values of up to 10 ns have also shown to
       produce usable data sets.
[0073] The receiver 1206 processes the raw reflections received from the antennas 1204b
       over line 1204b1 in the analog domain to optimize the signals of interest. For
       cardiopulmonary data, this includes suppressing the high-strength static return
       signals and amplifying the motion artifacts. Receiver 1206 may be based on a
       dual-channel balanced receiver architecture where the transmitter pulses are
       capacitively coupled from the output of the transmitter 1203 into both receive
       channels via RF. Splitter and the antenna 1204 is connected or otherwise coupled
       to one channel. The balanced receiver architecture provides a high degree of
       common mode rejection as well as differential gain. The common mode rejection
       provides a significant amount of attenuation to signals common to both channels
       thus minimizing interference from the transmit signal with the desired receive
       signal. The differential gain inherent in this architecture amplifies signals unique
       to either channel thus the received signal, being unique to the channel, is
       amplified.
                                          17

[0074] Both channels can use an ultra-fast sample-and-hold (S/H) circuit, each triggered
       by the delayed impulse train created by the pulse generator using the delayed
       pulse train over the line from the range delay circuit At 5 of Figure 12. The active
       sampling window is set at approximately 320 ps in one example and can be easily
       modified by selectively changing the value of a single passive component. The
       outputs of the two S/H circuits are integrated over multiple samples in integrator
       elements to improve the signal-to-noise ratio. The integrated samples feed the
       inverting and non-inverting inputs of an instrumentation amplifier, attenuating the
       transmitted signal and amplifying the received signal.
[0075]  As illustrated in Figure 12, A/D converter 1207 (ADC) is controlled by controller
       1201 through control lines 1201c. The controller sets the sample rate, sample
       resolution, and start/stop timing for the sampling process based on the mode of
       operation. The ADC digitizes the enhanced analog motion reflections from the
       receiver 1206, translating the enhanced reflected energy into a series of discrete
       digital values. As one example in range gate mode, 16,000 samples per second at
       16-bits per sample may be used.
[0076] The digitized signal from the A/D converter 1207 is then processed to extract
       pertinent physiological information in signal processor 1208 per Figure 12. The
       signal processing block is extremely flexible and, as mentioned previously, can
       accommodate a wide variety of algorithms in support of different medical
       applications. In addition the algorithm can be implemented using parallel, serial,
       or hybrid parallel/serial architecture. The choice of a specific architecture is left to
       those skilled in the art and will depend on the application and other system
       constraints. The controller manages the signal processing operations through
       control path 120 1d.
[0077] The resultant physiological data is displayed on a user interface (not shown). This
       can include tracings of amplitude versus time for one or more depths of interest,
       power spectral density for one or more depths of interest, time domain and
       frequency domain histograms for a range of depths, numerical values for heart
       and/or lung rates, as well as the associated confidence factors for the displayed
       data, as described subsequently. The controller 1201 of Figure 12 converts the
       data from the signal processor to an operator-friendly format through control path
       1201e for display on the user interface.
                                            18

                                                     19
Claims:
1.       A collar comprising:
         a housing containing a processor configured to control generation of an ultra-wideband radar
signal and reception of resultant signals, said housing located at a first circumferential position on
said collar;
         a transmit antenna, the transmit antenna configured to output said ultra-wideband radar
signal directed at biological tissue, the transmit antenna having a beam width;
         a receive antenna, the receive antenna configured to receive said resultant signals resulting
from a reflection of the ultra-wideband radar signal from the biological tissue, the receive antenna
having a beam width; and
         a counterweight separate from the housing and located at a second circumferential position
on said collar, the second circumferential position being different from the first circumferential
position,
         wherein the transmit antenna and the receive antenna are located in the housing, and
         wherein the transmit antenna is located at a fixed angle relative to the receive antenna to
maximize a magnitude associated with the resultant signals such that the beam width of the transmit
antenna is configured to overlap with the beam width of the receive antenna at the biological tissue.
2.       The collar according to claim 1,
         wherein the transmit antenna is a first transmit antenna,
         wherein the receive antenna is a first receive antenna, and
         wherein the collar further comprises:
                 a second transmit antenna; and
                 a second receive antenna, and
         wherein the second transmit antenna and the second receive antenna are located at a third
circumferential position on said collar, the third circumferential position being different from the
first circumferential position and the second circumferential position.
3.       The collar according to claim 1,

                                                     20
         wherein said output ultra-wideband signal output from said transmit antenna is configured to
illuminate at least one of a carotid artery or a jugular vein, and
         wherein said resultant signals contain information relating to the position and motion of said
at least one of the carotid artery or the jugular vein.
4.       The collar according to claim 1,
         wherein said output ultra-wideband signal output from said transmit antenna is configured to
illuminate muscles proximate to at least one of a trachea or an esophagus, and
         wherein said resultant signals contain information relating to the position and motion of said
muscles proximate to at least one of said trachea or said esophagus.
5.       The collar according to claim 1, wherein the angle is based on a type of tissue associated
with the biological tissue.
6.       The collar according to claim 1, wherein the angle is based on one or more structures
between the biological tissue and at least one of the transmit antenna or the receive antenna.
7.       The collar according to claim 1, wherein the angle is based on a type of physiological signal
associated with the biological tissue.
8.       The collar according to claim 1, further comprising:
         a range-delay circuit comprising:
                 a digital-to-analog converter;
                 an amplifier; and
                 a multivibrator.
9.       The collar according to claim 1, further comprising:
         an analog-to-digital converter,
         wherein the processor is further configured to:
                 receive a digitized signal from the analog-to-digital converter; and
                 extract pertinent physiological information from the digitized signal.

                                                     21
10.      The collar according to claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to inject a noise
signal from a noise signal source into the generated ultra-wideband radar signal, wherein the noise
signal causes spectral spreading and provides a unique transmit coding pattern for the transmit
antenna.
11.      The collar according to claim 1, wherein the counterweight is approximately a same weight
as the transmit antenna and the receive antenna.
12.      The collar according to claim 1, further comprising a tensioner located at a fifth
circumferential position on said collar, the fifth circumferential position being different from said
first circumferential position, said second circumferential position, and said third circumferential
position.
13.      The collar according to claim 1,
         wherein the transmit antenna is a first transmit antenna,
         wherein the receive antenna is a first receive antenna, and
         wherein the collar further comprises:
                a second transmit antenna; and
                a second receive antenna.
14.      The collar according to claim 13,
         wherein, after the first transmit antenna outputs said ultra-wideband signal, said first receive
antenna receives said resultant signals.
15.      The collar according to claim 13,
         wherein, after the first transmit antenna outputs said ultra-wideband signal, said second
receive antenna receives said resultant signals.
16.      The collar according to claim 13,
         wherein, after the first transmit antenna outputs said ultra-wideband signal, said first receive
antenna and said second receive antenna receive resultant signals.

                                                  22
17.   The collar according to claim 13,
      wherein, after the first transmit antenna and the second transmit antenna output said ultra
wideband signal, said first receive antenna receives resultant signals.
                                        i4c Innovations Inc.
                                 Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
