Abstract
Systems, devices, and methods for determining whether a fire condition exists based on a
status of a cooking appliance, and systems, devices, and methods for controlling an exhaust
air flow rate in an exhaust air ventilation system based on the status of the cooking
appliance. At least one sensor type generating a predefined signal is used to detect fire
condition and appliance cooking state, the predefined signal being applied to a controller
which differentiates, responsively the predefined signal, in combination with other sensor
signals, at least two cooking states each of the cooking states corresponding to at least two
exhaust flow rates which the controller implements in response to the controller's
differentiation of the two states and which predefined signal is simultaneously used to
differentiate a fire condition, in response to the differentiation of which, the same controller
activates a fire suppression mechanism.

                FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS, DEVICES, AND METHODS
RELATED APPLICATIONS
10001        The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application
2013293528 filed 7 June 2013 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
 000lai      The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/656,941, entitled "Fire Suppression Systems, Devices, and Methods", filed June 7, 2012,
which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
FIELD
100021       Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to exhaust control systems,
devices and methods including fire suppression. More specifically, embodiments relate to
systems, devices, and methods for determining whether a fire condition exists based on a status
of a cooking appliance and for controlling exhaust rate to ensue minimal excess air exhaust while
ensuring capture and containment of an exhaust hood.
BACKGROUND
10002ai      The following discussion of the background to the invention is intended to facilitate
an understanding of the invention. However, it should be appreciated that the discussion is not an
acknowledgement or admission that any aspect of the discussion was part of the common general
knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
10002b|      Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising"
are used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the
presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of
one or more other features, integers, steps or components.
[00031       Known fire suppression systems used in hoods placed over cook-stoves or ranges are
mainly concerned with delivering fire retardant onto the cooking surface to stop fat or grease
fires when a temperature indicative of a fire is measured in the hood plenum or ductwork. The
existing fire suppression systems operate by measuring a fixed absolute temperature in the hood
                                                   1

plenum or the ductwork and either activating an alarm or the release of fire retardant when a
previously set temperature has been reached. This type of approach, however, does not account
for changes in the exhaust temperature, nor does it account for scenarios where there is only a
flare-up from regular cooking, instead of a fire.
SUMMARY
10003ai    According to the present invention there is provided a method of responding to a
condition in an exhaust ventilation system including an exhaust hood, the method comprising:
regulating a flow of exhaust through a ventilation component responsively to a first sensor
adapted to detect a fume load from a cooking appliance; and detecting a fire condition
responsively to said first sensor and regulating a fire suppression mechanism responsively to the
detecting; the first regulating and detecting being performed by a controller configured to receive
signals from the sensor.
10004]       In embodiments, network-based, or rule-based, methods combine multiple sensor
inputs to generate a status indication which is used to control fire suppression and exhaust flow
by a single set of sensor inputs. In embodiments, at least one sensor type generating a predefined
signal is used to detect fire condition and appliance cooking state, the predefined signal being
applied to a controller which differentiates., responsively the
                                                   1a

predefined signal, in combination with other sensor signals, at least two cooking states each
of the cooking states corresponding to at least two exhaust flow rates which the controller
implements in response to the controller's differentiation of the two states and which
predefmed signal is simultaneously used to differentiate a fire condition, in response to the
differentiation of which, the same controller activates a fire suppression mechanism such as a
water spray or chemical fire extinguisher.
     [0005]       One or more embodiments include systems and methods for suppressing fire
responsively to a determination that a fire condition exists.
     [0006]       One or more embodiments include systems and methods for detennining
whether a fire condition exists based on an evaluation of a heat gain from a cooking appliance
in addition to measuring the exhaust hood temperature.
     [0007]       One or more embodiments include a system and method for determining if
there is a fire or a flare-up from regular cooking.
     [0008]       One or more embodiments include systems and methods for determining
whether a fire condition exist based on detection of instantaneous heat emitted from the
cooking appliance and the measurement of the rate of change of the cooking appliance heat.
     [0009]       In embodiments the detection of the instantaneous heat may be based on
airflow measurements.
     [0010]       The airflow measurement and subsequent exhaust flow rate control may
include the airflow measurement and exhaust flow rate control, for example as described in
detail in United States Patent Application 20110284091, incorporated herein by reference as
if fully set forth in its entirety herein.
     [0011]       One or more embodiments include a system and method for fire condition
determination and fire suppression control in an exhaust ventilation system positioned above
one or more cooking appliances. The system and method may include determining whether a
fire condition exists based on a determination of the appliance status. The appliance status
may include a cooking state, an idle state, a flare-up state, a fire state, an off state, and other
states.
     [0012]       Determining the appliance status may include measuring a temperature of the
exhaust air in the vicinity of the exhaust hood, measuring a radiant temperature of the exhaust
air in the vicinity of the cooking appliance, determining a total heat gain from the cooking
appliance, determining a total duration of the heat gain, and determining an appliance status
based on the measured exhaust air temperature, radiant temperature, the total heat gain, and
the total duration of the heat gain.
                                                 2

     [0013]       The exhaust air temperature near the vicinity of the exhaust hood may be
measured using a temperature sensor.
     [0014]       In embodiments the radiant temperature in the vicinity of the cooking
appliance is measured using an infrared (IR) sensor.
     [0015]       In a cooking state it may be determined that there is a fluctuation in the radiant
temperature and the mean radiant temperature of the cooking appliance, or that the exhaust
temperature is above a minimum exhaust temperature.
     [0016]       In an idle state it may be determined that there is no radiant temperature
fluctuation for the duration of the cooking time and the exhaust temperature is less than a
predetermined minimum exhaust temperature.
     [0017]       In a flare-up state it may be determined that a measured total heat gain from
the cooking appliances is less than a predetermined threshold heat gain or that the total heat
gain is above the predetermined threshold heat gain and the duration of the heat gain is less
than a predetermined threshold duration.
     [0018]       In a fire state it may be determined that the total heat gain is above the
predetermined threshold heat gain and the duration of the heat gain is above the
predetermined threshold duration.
     [0019]       In an OFF state, it may be determined that the mean radiant temperature is less
than a predetermined minimum radiant temperature and that the exhaust temperature is less
than a predetermined ambient air temperature plus the mean ambient air temperature of the
space in the vicinity of the cooking appliance.
     [0020]       Embodiments may further comprise controlling the exhaust air flow rate in an
exhaust ventilation system positioned above a cooking appliance where the exhaust air flow
is controlled by turning the fan on or off, or by changing the fan speed and the damper
position based on the determined appliance status.
     [0021]       Embodiments may further include activating a fire suppression source in a fire
suppressing system based on the detected appliance status.
     [0022]       In embodiments a fire suppression source is turned on or off based on a
detected appliance status. In embodiments, when the appliance status is determined to be in a
fire state, the fire retardant source is turned on. In embodiments, when the appliance status is
determined to be in any other state (off, idle, cooking, or flare-up), the fire retardant source is
not turned on.
     [0023]       Embodiments may further comprise controlling the exhaust air flow rate in an
exhaust ventilation system positioned above a cooking appliance where the exhaust flow rate
                                                   3

is changed based on a change in the appliance status.
     [0024]     Embodiments may further comprise an exhaust ventilation system
including an exhaust hood mounted above a cooking appliance with an exhaust fan for
removing exhaust air generated by the cooking appliance, at least one sensor for
measuring a radiant temperature of the cooking appliance, at least one temperature sensor
attached to the exhaust hood (in the hood plenum or ductwork, for example) for
measuring the temperature of the exhaust air, and. a control module to determine a status
of the cooking appliance based on the measured radiant temperature, the exhaust air
temperature, the total heat gain from the radiant heat emitted by the cooking appliance,
and the duration of the heat gain, and to control an exhaust air flow rate and activation of
a fire suppressing system based on the appliance status.
     [0025]     Embodiments may further comprise a control module that controls the
exhaust air flow rate by controlling a speed of an exhaust fan, and at least one motorized
balancing damper attached to the exhaust hood to control a volume of the exhaust air that
enters a hood duct.
     [0026]     In various embodiments the control module may further control the
exhaust air flow rate by controlling a position of the at least one motorized balancing
damper.
     [0027]     Embodiments may further comprise a control module that controls activation
of a fire suppression (extinguishing) system when the appliance is determined to be in a fire
state. When the fire suppression system is activated, a fire retardant is sprayed from a fire.
suppression source included in the fire suppression system through one or more nozzles
included in the exhaust ventilation system.
     [0028]     An embodiment may include a method of detecting a condition in an exhaust
ventilation system including an exhaust hood, the method comprising: receiving, at a control
module, an exhaust air temperature signal representing a temperature of the exhaust air in a
vicinity of the exhaust hood, the exhaust air temperature signal being generated by a
temperature sensor; receiving, at the control module, a radiant temperature signal
representing a temperature of a surface of a cooking appliance that generates the exhaust air,
the radiant temperature signal being generated by a radiant temperature sensor; receiving, at
the control module, a pressure signal representing the pressure in the hood; determining in the
control module a state of the cooking appliance based on the received exhaust air temperature
signal, the received radiant temperature signal, and the received pressure signal; and
determining a fire condition in response to the determined appliance state.
                                                4

     [0029]      The cooking appliance state may include a cooking state, an idle state, an off
state, a flare-up state, and a fire state.
     [0030]      The determining may further include determining a fluctuation in the radiant
temperature, a rate of radiant heat change, a total radiant heat gain, and a duration of the rate
of radiant heat change.
     [0031]      The cooking appliance may be determined to be in the cooking state when
there is a fluctuation in the radiant temperature and the radiant temperature is greater than a
predetermined minimum radiant temperature, the cooking appliance is determined to be in
the idle state when no fluctuation in the radiant temperature is determined, the cooking
appliance is determined to be in the off state when there is no fluctuation in the radiant
temperature and the radiant temperature is less than a predetermined minimum radiant
temperature, the cooking appliance is determined to be in the flare-up state when total radiant
heat gain from the cooking appliance is less than a predetermined threshold gain or when the
total heat gain is above the predetermined threshold heat gain and the duration of the heat
gain is less than a predetermined threshold duration, and the cooking appliance is determined
to be in a fire state when the total heat gain is above the predetermined gain threshold and the
duration of the heat gain is above the predetermined duration threshold.
     [0032]      When a fire state is determined, a fire suppression system may be activated to
extinguish the fire.
     [0033]      When an idle, a cooking, an OFF, or a flare-up state is determined, the control
module may output a signal to a balancing damper and/or an exhaust fan to adjust an exhaust
flow rate in the exhaust ventilation system.
     [0034]      Another embodiment may include a method of responding to a condition in an
exhaust ventilation system including an exhaust hood, the method comprising: receiving, at a
control module, an exhaust air temperature signal representing a temperature of the exhaust
air in a vicinity of the exhaust hood, the exhaust air temperature signal being generated by a
temperature sensor; receiving, at the control module, a radiant temperature signal
representing a temperature of a surface of a cooking appliance that generates the exhaust air,
the radiant temperature signal being generated by a radiant temperature sensor; receiving, at
the control module, a pressure signal representing the pressure in the exhaust hood;
determining in the control module a state of the cooking appliance based on the received
exhaust air temperature signal, the received radiant temperature signal, and the received
pressure signal; and responding to the. determined appliance state by outputting a control
signal from the control module.
                                                  5

     [0035]     The responding may include outputting a signal to a balancing damper and/or
 an exhaust fan to adjust an exhaust flow rate in the exhaust ventilation system when the
cooking appliance state is determined to be one of the idle, cooking, OFF, and flare-up states,
and activating a fire suppression system when the cooking appliance state is determined to be
the fire state.
     [0036]     Another embodiment may include a fire detection system for cooking
applications including an exhaust hood and at least a first and a second sensing device, the
first sensing device measuring a surface temperature of a cooking appliance positioned under
the exhaust hood and the second sensing device measuring a hood exhaust temperature.
     [0037]     The detection may include detecting and differentiating between
 intermediate flair-ups associated with a regular cooking process and a fire by          detecting
two thresholds of fire.
     [0038]     The system may further comprise (include) an airflow sensor to measure hood
exhaust airflow.
     [0039]     The detection may further include measuring heat generated by the cooking
appliance and a rate of change of the appliance heat.
     [0040]     Further, a system that evaluates the heat generated by the cooking appliances
to determine if a fire has occurred is also disclosed.
     [0041]     The system may use infrared sensors to measure the appliance heat being
emitted.
     [0042]     The system may also use pressure measurements to determine exhaust
airflows.
     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     [0043]     Fig. 1 is a perspective view diagrammatically illustrating an exhaust
ventilating system positioned. above cooking appliances and having a fire suppressing control
system according to various embodiments;
     [0044]     Fig. 2 is a block diagram of an exemplary exhaust air flow rate and fire
suppression control system in accordance with the disclosure;
     [0045]     Fig. 3 is a flow diagram of an exemplary operation routine according to
various embodiments.
     [0046]     Fig. 4 illustrates, using simulated data, a time, light intensity profile for IR and
optical bands filtered and unfiltered in a cooking scenario.
     [0047]     Fig. 5 illustrates, using simulated data, a time, light intensity profile for IR and
                                                  6

optical bands filtered and unfiltered in a fire scenario.
     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     [0048]    Referring to Fig. 1, there is shown an exemplary exhaust ventilation system
100 including an exhaust hood 105 positioned above a plurality of cooking appliances 115
and provided in communication with an exhaust assembly (not shown) through an exhaust
duct 110. A bottom opening of the exhaust hood 105 may be. generally rectangular but may
have any other desired shape. Walls of the hood 105 define an interior volume 185, which
communicates with a downwardly facing bottom opening 190 at an end of the hood 105 that
is positioned over the cooking appliances 115. The interior volume 185 may also
communicate with the exhaust assembly through the exhaust duct 110. The exhaust duct 110
may extend upwardly toward the outside venting environment through the exhaust assembly.
     [0049]    The exhaust assembly may include a motorized exhaust fan (not shown), by
which the exhaust air generated by the cooking appliances 115 is drawn into the exhaust
duct 110 and for expelling into the outside venting environment. When the motor of the
exhaust fan is running, an exhaust air flow path 165 is established between the cooking
appliances 115 and the outside venting environment. As the air is pulled away from the
cook top area, fumes, air pollutants and other air particles are exhausted into the outside
venting environment through the exhaust duct 110 and exhaust assembly. One or more
pressure sensors 308 may also be included in the system 100 to measure the static pressure
in the main exhaust duct, as well as a plurality of grease removing filters (not shown) at the
exhaust hood 105 bottom opening 190 to remove grease and fume particles from entering the
hood exhaust duct 110.
     [0050]    The exhaust ventilating system 100 may further include a control module
302 which preferably includes a programmable processor 304 that is operably coupled to,
and receives data from, a plurality of sensors and is configured to control the speed of the
motorized exhaust fan, which in turn regulates the exhaust air flow rate in the system 100.
The control module 302 communicates with the motorized exhaust fan which includes a
speed control module such as a variable frequency drive (VFD) to control the speed of the.
motor, as well as one or more motorized balancing dampers (not shown) positioned near the
exhaust duct 110.
                                                  7

    [0051]      The control module 302 is also configured to control activation and
deactivation of a fire suppression mechanism 400 based on the detected cooking
appliance status. The control module 302 controls the exhaust fan speed and the
activation of the fire suppression mechanism 400 based on the output of a temperature
sensor 314 positioned on or in the interior of the exhaust duct 110, and the output of
infrared (IR) radiant temperature sensors 312, each positioned to face an upper surface of
a respective cooking appliance 115. In at least one embodiment, three IR sensors 312 may
be provided, each one positioned above a respective cooking appliance 115, so that each
IR sensor 312 faces a respective cooking surface 115. However, any number and type of
IR sensors 312 and any number of cooking appliances 115 may be used, as long as the
radiant temperature of each cooking surface is detected. The control module 302
communicates with sensors 314 and 312 and identifies the cooking appliance status based
on the sensor readings. The status of the cooking appliances 115 is determined based on
the exhaust air temperature and the radiant temperature sensed using these multiple
detectors.
    [0052]      Note that radiant temperature sensors may include, or be supplemented by
one or more IR cameras and one or more optical cameras. A single camera may produce
"color" channel of a video signal to allow a single video stream to indicate temperature
and luminance at a large number of locations in real time. In fact a single video camera
detecting IR color and optical bands may replace all of the radiant temperature sensors
312. The combination of optical and IR signals can be particularly useful in combination.
For example. a high sustained infrared signal without an contemporaneous optical signal
may be classified by a controller as a hot grill while the same IR signal coupled with a
strong or fluctuating optical signal may be classified as a fire. The spatial information
provided by a camera may further aid in the disambiguation of combined signals.
    [0053]      Images, optical, IR or both may be image-processed to generate a state
vector of reduced dimensionality as an input for training and recognizing fire and cooking
events. Many examples of normal cooking and fire conditions may be used to train a
supervised learning algorithm which may then may be used to recognize and classify,
respectively, normal cooking and fire conditions.
    [0054]      Note that any of the embodiments may be modified by including fire
control nozzles that have fusible links.. In such an embodiment, a fusible. link sprinkler
head may be provided with a parallel feed that is controlled by a control valve for the fire
suppression system. In the event of a failure of the control system, the fusible link can
                                               8

open its parallel supply of water causing water to be sprayed on the enabling heat source,
presumably a fire.
    [0055]      The fire suppression mechanism 400 may include, store, and/or regulate
the flow of, a fire control section including any known fire retardant material source
capable of extinguish fire. Fire suppression mechanism 400 may further include a
section that communicates with a digital network that interconnects other systems that
control and/or indicate status information regarding, ventilation fans, filters, lighting,
ductwork, cooking appliances, food order-taking, invoicing, inventory, public address,
and/or any other components. For example, a signal may be generated on such a
network to notify occupants and/or fire-fighting agencies of a detected fire condition, in
addition to the activation of the fire suppression process.
    [0056]      Although shown as separate elements, nozzles 401 may be integral with
the fire suppression mechanism 400. The structure illustrated may be one in which one
or more separate nozzles are connected to the fire suppression mechanism 400 by fluid
channels. Nozzles 401 may be strategically placed inside of the ventilation system 100
so as to be able to extinguish the fire regardless of its source. For example, one or more
nozzles 401 may be placed in the plenum or grease collection area and one or more
nozzles 401 may be positioned directly above the cooking appliance 115.. The nozzles
401 communicate directly with the fire control section of the fire suppression
mechanism 400 so that when the mechanism 400 is activated by the control module 302,
fire retardant material is discharged through the nozzles 401. The fire retardant may be
any known fire extinguishing material, such as, but not limited to water, or liquid
potassium salt solution.
    [0057]      The control module 302 may determine a cooking appliance status (AS) based
on the exhaust temperature sensor 314 and the IR radiant temperature sensor 312 outputs, and
may change the exhaust fan speed as well as the position of the motorized balancing dampers
in response to the determined cooking appliance status (AS). The control module 302 may
also activate the fire suppression mechanism 400 based on a detected appliance status.
    [0058]      In one embodiment, a control system is adapted for regulation of exhaust flow
rate responsively to a radiant temperature sensor. A first indication signal is generated if
multiple cycles of high and low temperatures are indicated at one or more locations on a
surface of the cooking appliance. within a timer interval with a predefined temporal profile.
This fluctuating radiant temperature regime is explained in United States Patent Application
20110284091. Land may serve as an indicator of high cooking state to which the control
                                               9

system responds by maintaining a high exhaust volume rate. Fire can be recognized by a
signature of paroxysmal and sustained intervals of high radiant temperature. This rapid rise
of radiant temperature may be discriminated using a high pass filter (digital post-processing
or analog prefilter) applied to the radiant temperature input. The sustained feature of the fire
event may be derived from a low pass filter component of the filtered radiant temperature.
Another discriminator of grease fires from simply the hot radiant temperature signal of a grill
which is on but not covered with food is that a grease fire may have, under certain
circumstances, a lower radiant temperature because of a slower combustion owing to the
lower efficiency of oxygen mixing in such a fire as compared to the burners of a grill.
Another feature that may be used to distinguish a radiant grill from a fire is an optical
component. An optical imaging device employed along with the radiant temperature sensor
may generate images that can be digital processed to identify a fire and distinguish it from a
hot grill operating in normal conditions.
     [0059]      Referring to Fig. 4, a radiation intensity versus time graph from simulated data
shows radiant temperature, optical intensity, and high and low passed filtered versions of the
radiant temperature over an interval of time during in which the sensors detect a bare hot grill
with no food, then food is placed on the hot grill, then the food is turned once and then again.
The signal resulting from high-pass filtering (HPF) the IR intensity indicates a sudden
changes from turning the food and a hypothetical flash from drips of fat onto hot surfaces
which can ignite and produce a brief flare-up. The flare-up shows up in the IR signal and the
optical signal. The turning of the food and the flare-up show up in the HDF signal. The flow
pass filtered (LPF) [R signal shows that the flare has a minimal effect because it is not
sustained. Also the LPF signal may show very little fluctuation in the normal condition
events. The optical signal is fairly smooth. A controller may discriminate a fire state from a
cooking state by recognizing the lack of fluctuation in the LPF signal in that the flares are
brief but in a fire, as discussed below, they may be larger and more sustained leading to a
characteristic profile which may be easily recognized by a microprocessor and used to
distinguish a fire state.
     [0060]      Referring to Fig. 5, a fire starts as indicate in a cooking scenario which is
otherwise identical to that of Fig. 4. As illustrated, the HPF IR signal fluctuates as does the
LPF IR signal after the fire starts. The optical signal may show high levels for sustained or
rapid sequence of intervals and fluctuations that are clearly different from a normal cooking
state. Also notable is that the LPF IR signal rises and fluctuates. These features may be
detected, in combination or independently, by a processor configured for pattern recognition
                                                   10

or by thresholding the signal, in order to indicate a fire state.
     [0061]       The optical signal may be generated in the same manner as described herein
with regard to the radiant temperature sensor. This can be a point luminance value or an
image. The same goes for the IR signal which can provide radiant or luminance indications
for many independent points in the field of view of a camera.
     [0062]       The cooking appliance 115 may have a cooking state, an idle state, a flare-up
state, a fire state, and an OFF state. According to various embodiments, the method by which
the cooking state, idle state and the OFF state and associated exhaust flow rates Q are
determined is described in detail in the WO 2010/065793 application, attached herewith as
United States Patent Application 20110284091.
     [0063]       For example, as shown in United States Patent Application 20110284091, the
individual hood exhaust airflow (Q) may be controlled based on the appliance status (AS) or
state, which may be, for example, AS = 1, which indicates that the corresponding appliance is
in a cooking state, AS = 2, which indicates that the corresponding appliance is in an idle state,
and AS = 0, which indicates that the corresponding cooking appliance is turned off (OFF
state). The exhaust temperature sensors 314 and the radiant IR sensors 312 may detect the
appliance status and provide the detected status to the processor 304 of control module 302.
Based on the reading provided by the sensors, the control module 302 may change the
exhaust airflow (Q) in the system 100 to correspond to a predetermined airflow (Qdesign), a
measured airflow (Q) (see below), and a predetermined (Qidle) airflow. When the detected
cooking state is AS = 1, the control module 302 may adjust the airflow (Q) to correspond to
the predetermined (Qdesign) airflow. When the cooking state is AS = 2, the control module
302 may adjust the airflow (Q) calculated according to the following equation:
         Q   = fdnein(     Tex - Tspace + dTspace.
                          T max-Tspace + dTspace)
     And when the detected cooking state is AS =0, the control module 302 may adjust the
airflow (Q) to be Q = 0.
     [0064]       In particular, as shown in the United States Patent Application 20110284091,
the cooking, idle, and OFF states may be determined based on the input received from the
exhaust temperature sensors 314 and the IR temperature sensors 312. The exhaust
temperature (Tex) and the ambient space temperature (Tspace) values may be read and stored
in the memory 305 of the control module 302 in order to calculate the exhaust airflow (Q) in
the system. The exhaust airflow (Q) may be calculated, for example, using the above shown
                                                  11

equation. If the calculated exhaust airflow (Q) is less than the predetermined (Qidle) airflow,
the cooking state may be determined to be AS = 2 (idle state) and the exhaust airflow (Q)
may be set to correspond to (Qidle). In this case, the fan may be kept at a speed (VFD) that
maintains (Q) = (Qidle). If it is determined that the airflow (Q) exceeds the preset (Qidle)
value, the appliance status is determined to be AS = 1 (cooking state) and the control module
302 may set the fan speed (VFD) at (VFD) = (VFDdesign) to maintain the airflow (Q) at (Q)
   (Qdesign).
     [0065]     The mean radiant temperature (IRT), as well as the fluctuation of the radiant
temperature (FRT) emanating from the appliance cooking surface may also be measured
using the IR detectors 312. If the processor 304 determines that the radiant temperature is
increasing or decreasing faster than a pre-determined threshold, and the cooking surface is
hot (IRT > IRTmin), then the appliance status is reported as AS = I and the speed of fan
(VFD) may be set to (VFDdesign). When the exhaust hood 105 is equipped with multiple IR
sensors 312, by default, if either one of the sensors detects a fluctuation in the radiant
temperature, then cooking state (AS = 1) is reported. When the cooking state is detected,
hood exhaust airflow (Q) may be set to design airflow (Q = Qdesign) for a preset cooking
time (TimeCook) (7 minutes, for example). In at least one embodiment, this overrides control
by exhaust temperature signal (Tex). Moreover, if the IR sensors 312 detect another
temperature fluctuation within cooking time (TimeCook), the cooking timer is reset.
     [0066]     On the other hand, if the.IR sensors 312 detect no temperature fluctuations
within preset cooking time (TimeCook), the appliance status is reported as idle AS = 2 and
the fan speed may be modulated to maintain exhaust airflow at (Q) = (Q). calculated
according to the equation above. When all IR sensors 312 detect (IRT < IRTmin) and (Tex <
Tspace + dTspace), the appliance status is determined to be OFF (AS = 0) and the exhaust fan
is turned off by setting VFD =0. Otherwise, the appliance status is determined to be cooking
(AS = 2) and the fan speed (VFD) is modulated to keep the exhaust airflow (Q) at a level
calculated according to the equation described above. The operation may end with the control
module 302 setting the airflow (Q) at the airflow level based on the determined appliance
status (AS).
     [0067]     Controlling the exhaust airflow in the system with motorized balancing
dampers at the exhaust hood 105 may also be.done. The controlling method may follow
substantially similar steps as the above described method, except that when fluctuation in the
radiant temperature (FRT) is detected by the IR sensors 312, or when the exhaust temperature
(Tex) exceeds a minimum value (Tmin) the appliance status is determined to be AS = 1 and
                                                12

the control module 302 additionally checks whether the balancing dampers are in a fully open
position (BDP) = 1, as well as whether the fan speed (VFD) is below a pre-determined design
fan speed. If the conditions above are true, the fan speed (VFD) is increased until the exhaust
flow Q reaches the design airflow (Qdesign). If the conditions above are not true, the fan
speed (VFD) is maintained at (VFDdesign) and the airflow (Q) is maintained at (Q)=
(Qdesign).
    [0068]      If there is no radiant temperature fluctuation or the exhaust temperature (Tex)
does not exceed a maximum temperature (Tmax), the appliance status is determined to be the
idle state AS = 2. Additionally, the control module 302 may check whether the balancing
dampers are in a fully opened position (BDP) = 1 and whether the fan speed (VFD) is below
the design fan speed. If the answer is yes, the fan speed (VFD) is increased and the balancing
dampers are modulated to maintain the airflow (Q) at (Q) = (Q) (calculated according to the
equation described above).
    [0069]      When there is no radiant temperature detected and the exhaust temperature is
(Tex < Tspace + dTspace) the appliance status is determined to be AS = 0 (OFF state), the
balancing dampers are fully closed (BDP = 0) and the fan is turned off. The appliance status
may be stored if the exhaust temperature exceeds the ambient temperature. In the case that
the appliance status is determined to be AS = 2! the balancing dampers are modulated to keep
the fan on to maintain the airflow of (Q) = (Q), which is calculated based on the above shown
equation. The operation may then end and the exhaust airflow is set according to the
determined appliance status.
    [0070]      In addition to the idle, cooking, and OFF states described above, as well as in
United States Patent Application 20110284091, a flare-up state and a fire state of the cooking
appliances may also be determined based on the exhaust temperature sensor 314, the IR
radiant temperature sensor 312, and the pressure sensor 308 outputs. Using the IR sensors
312 and the pressure sensor 308, the instantaneous total radiant heat that emanates from the
cooking appliances 115, as well as the rate of change of the radiant heat may be measured.
Using the exhaust temperature sensor 314 output, the duration of the radiant heat gain may
also be determined.
    [0071]      If the control module 302 determines that the measured total heat gain from
the cooking appliances 115 is less than a predetermined threshold heat gain, or that the total
heat gain is above the predetermined threshold heat gain and the duration of the heat gain is
less than a predetermined threshold duration, it is determined that a flare7 up during the
regular cooking process has occurred. In this case, the appliance is in a flare-up state (AS =
                                                 13

3). When a flare-up state is determined, an associate exhaust flow rate Q=Qflare-up is
calculated, Which is an exhaust flow rate that allows for the exhaust generated by the flare-up
during cooking to be efficiently and successfully removed from the kitchen.
     [0072]     If the total heat gain is above the predetermined gain threshold and the
duration of the heat gain is above the predetermined duration threshold, a fire status is
detected. The appliance is in a fire state (AS = 4). When the appliance status is indicated
as being in a fire state, the. control module 302 sends an activation signal to the fire
suppression mechanism 400, which then determines whether to activate an alarm, and/or
dispense fire extinguishing material through the nozzles 401.
     [0073]     Fig. 2 shows a schematic block diagram of an exhaust flow rate control system
300 that may be used in connection with the above shown system 100. The exhaust flow
control system 300 includes a control module 302. The control module 302 includes a
processor 304 and a memory 305. The control module 302 is coupled to and receives inputs
from a plurality of sensors and devices, including one or more IR sensors 312, which may be
positioned on the exhaust hood canopy 105 so that the IR sensors 312 face the surface of the
cooking appliances 115 and detect the radiant temperature emanating from the cooking
surfaces, an exhaust air temperature sensor 314 installed close or in the exhaust plenum
or the hood duct 110 to detect the temperature of the exhaust air that is sucked into the
hood duct 110, an ambient air temperature sensor (not shown) positioned near the
ventilation system 100 to detect the temperature of the air surrounding the cooking
appliances 115, one or more pressure sensors 308, which may be positioned near a hood
tab port (TAB) to detect the pressure built-up in the hood 105, and optional operator
controls 311. Inputs from the sensors 308, 310, 314, 314 and operator controls 311 are
transferred to the control module 302, which then processes the input signals and
determines the appliance status (AS) or state. The control module processor 304 may
control the speed of the exhaust fan motor(s) 316 and/or the position of the motorized
balancing dampers 318 (BD) based on the appliance state. Each cooking state is
associated with a particular exhaust flow rate (Q), as described in the WO 2010/065793
application, attached herewith as United States Patent Application 20110284091, as well
as described above. Once the control module 302 determines the state that the appliance
is in, it may then adjust the speed of the exhaust fan 316 and the position of the
balancing dampers 318 to achieve a pre-determined air flow rate associated with each
appliance state, such as cooking, idle, flare-up, and off states, or may activate the fire
suppression mechanism 400 to dispense fire retardant material through the fire
                                                14

suppression nozzles 401 to extinguish the fire if a fire state is detected.
     [0074]    In various embodiments, the sensors may be operably coupled to the
processor 304 using a conductive wire. The sensor outputs may be provided in the form
of an analog signal (e.g. voltage, current, or the like). Alternatively, the sensors may be
coupled to the processor 304 via a digital bus, in which case the sensor outputs may
comprise one or more words of digital information. The number and positions of exhaust
air temperature sensors 314 and radiant temperature sensors (IR sensors) 312 may be
varied depending on how many cooking appliances and associated hoods, hood collars
and hood ducts are present in the system, as. well as other variables such as the hood
length. The number and positioning of ambient air temperature sensors 310 may also be
varied as long as the temperature of the ambient air around the ventilation system is
detected. The number and positioning of the pressure sensors 308 may also be varied as
long as they are installed in the hood duct in close proximity to the exhaust fan to
measure the static pressure (Pst) in the main exhaust duct. All sensors are exemplary and
therefore any known type of sensor may be used to fulfill the desired function. In
general, the control module 302 may be coupled to sensors 308, 310, 312, 314, the fan
motors 316, and dampers 318 by any suitable wired or wireless link.
     [0075]    In various embodiments, multiple control modules 302 may be provided.
The type and number of control modules 302 and their location in the system may also
vary depending on the. complexity and scale of the system as to the number of above
enumerated sensors and their locations within a system.
     [0076]    The control module 302 preferably contains a processor 304 and a memory
305, which may be configured to perform the control functions described herein. In
various embodiments the memory 305 may store a list of appropriate input variables,
process variables, process control set points as well as calibration set points for each
hood. These stored variables may be used by the processor 304 during the different
stages of the check, calibration, and start-up functions, as well as during operation of the
system. Exemplary variables are described in United States Patent Application
20110284091.
     [0077]    In various embodiments, the processor 304 may execute a sequence of
programmed instructions stored on a computer readable medium (e.g., electronic
memory, optical or magnetic storage, or the like). The instructions, when executed by the
processor 304, may cause the processor 304 to perform the functions described herein.
The instructions may be stored in the memory 305, or they may be embodied in another
                                               15

processor readable medium, or a combination thereof. The processor 304 may be
implemented using a microcontroller, computer, an Application Specific Integrated Circuit
(ASIC), or discrete logic components, or a combination thereof.
    [0078]      In various embodiment, the processor 304 may also be coupled to a status
indicator or display device 317, such as, for example, a Liquid Crystal Display (LCD), for
output of alarms and error codes and other messages to a user. The indicator 317 may also
include an audible indicator such as a buzzer, bell, alarm, or the like.
    [0079]      In operation, as shown in Fig. 3, in an exemplary embodiment, the control
module 302 starts a control operation in S 1 directing sensor(s) 312 in S2 to measure the
radiant temperature, sensor 314 to measure the exhaust air temperature, sensor 310 to
measure the ambient air temperature, and sensor 308 to measure the pressure in the
hood 105. Optionally, the control module 302 also directs other temperature sensors
positioned near the cooking appliances 115 to measure the cooking temperature. In S3,
the control module 302 receives an exhaust air temperature input, a pressure sensor
input, an ambient air temperature input, and an infrared sensor input. The control
module 302 then determines in S3 the appliance state based on the sensor inputs. The
control module 302 also determines in S3 the current exhaust flow rate (Q). The current
exhaust flow rate is then compared to a desired exhaust flow rate associated with an
appliance state. If the determined exhaust flow rate is the desired exhaust flow rate,
control restarts. If the determined exhaust flow rate is not the desired exhaust flow rate,
control proceeds to determining the damper(s) position or the exhaust fan speed based
on the determined appliance state. If the determined appliance state is one of a cooking
state, idle state, OFF state, or flare-up state, the control module 302 proceeds to output a
damper position command to the damper(s) in S4, or an output speed command to the
exhaust fan in S5, to regulate the exhaust flow rate based on the determined appliance
status. If the determined appliance state is the fire state, the control module 302 sends
an activation signal to the fire suppression mechanism 400 in S6, which then determines
whether to activate an alarm, and/or dispense fire extinguishing material through the
nozzles 401.
    [0080]       The control may then proceed to determine whether the power of the
cooking appliance is off, in which case the control ends, or to start the control again if
power is determined to still be on.
    [0081]      In another embodiment, a system includes a control module 302 coupled
to the sensors and control outputs (not shown). The control module 302 is also coupled
                                                16

to an alarm interface (not shown), a fire suppression interface (not shown), and an
appliance communication interface (not shown). The alarm interface is coupled to an
alarm system. The fire suppression interface is coupled to a fire suppression
mechanism 400. The appliance communication interface is coupled to one or more
appliances 115.
    [0082]      In operation, the control module 302 may communicate and exchange
information with the alarm system, fire suppression mechanism 400, and appliances 115
to better determine appliance states and a suitable exhaust flow rate. Also, the control
module 302 may provide information to the various systems so that functions may be.
coordinated for a more. effective operational environment. For example, the control
module 302, through its sensors, may detect a fire or other dangerous condition and
communicate this information to the alarm system, the fire suppression mechanism 400,
and the appliances 115 so that each device or system may take appropriate actions.
Also, information from the appliances 115 may be used by the exhaust flow control
system to more accurately determine appliance states and provide more accurate exhaust
flow control.
    [0083]      In an embodiment, before operation, the system 100 may also be checked
and calibrated by the control module 302 during the starting process, in order to balance
each hood to a preset design and idle exhaust flow rate, to clean and recalibrate the
sensors, if necessary, and to evaluate each component in the system for possible
malfunction or breakdown- The appropriate alarm signals may be displayed on an LCD
display in case there is a malfunction in the system, to inform an operator of the
malfunction and, optionally, how to recover from the malfunction. An exemplary
calibration process is described in detail in United States Patent Application 20110284091.
    [0084]      For example, a routine may be performed by the control module 302 to
check the system 100 before the start of the flow control operation. The routine may start
with a control module self-diagnostics process. If the self-diagnostic process is OK, the
control module 302 may set the variable frequency drive (VFD) which controls the
exhaust fan speed to a preset frequency (VFDidle). Then the static pressure may be
measured by a pressure transducer positioned at the hood TAB port and the exhaust flow
may be set to (Q) calculated using the formula above. If the self-diagnostics process
fails, the control module 302 may verify whether the (VFD) is the preset (VFDidle) and
whether the exhaust air flow (Q) is less or exceeds (Qidle) by a threshold airflow
coefficient. Based on the exhaust airflow reading, the control module 302 generates and
                                              17

outputs appropriate error codes, which may be shown or displayed on an LCD display or
other appropriate indicator 317 attached to the exhaust hood or coupled to the control
module 302.
     [0085]       In another embodiment, if the exhaust flow (Q) is less than (Qidle) by a
filter missing coefficient (Kfilter missing) then the error code "check filters and fan"
may be generated. If, on the other hand, the exhaust flow (Q) exceeds (Qidle) by a
clogged filter coefficient (Kfilter clogged), then a "clean filter" alarm may be generated.
If the exhaust flow (Q) is in fact the. same as (Qidle) then no alarm is generated, and the
routine ends.
     [0086]        In another embodiment, a routine may be performed by the control
module 302 to check the system. The routine may start with a self-diagnostics process.. If
a result of the self-diagnostic process is OK, the control module 302 may maintain the
exhaust air flow (Q) at (Qidle) by maintaining the balancing dampers in their original or
current position. Then, the static pressure (dp) is measured by the pressure transducer
positioned at the hood TAB port, and the exhaust flow is set to (Q) calculated using the
exhaust flow rate equation. If the self-diagnostics process fails, the control module may
set the balancing dampers (BD) at open position and (VFD) at (VFDdesign).
     [0087]        The control module 302 may then check whether the balancing dampers
are malfunctioning. If there is a malfunctioning balancing damper, the control module.
302 may open the balancing dampers. If there is no malfunctioning balancing damper,
then the control module 302 may check whether there is a malfunctioning sensor in the
system. If there is a malfunctioning sensor, the control module 302 may set the balancing
dampers at (BDPdesign), the (VFD) at (VFDdesign) and the exhaust airflow to
(Qdesign). Otherwise, the control module 302 may set (VFD) to (VFDidle) until the
cooking appliance is turned off. This step terminates the routine.
     [0088]        In various embodiments, the hood 105 may automatically be calibrated
to design airflow (Qdesign). The calibration procedure may be activated with all
ventilation systems functioning and cooking appliances in the off state. The calibration
routine may commence with the fan turned off. If the fan is turned off, the hood may be
balanced to the design airflow (Qdesign). If the hood is not balanced, the control module
302 may adjust VFD until the exhaust flow reaches (Qdesign). The routine then waits
until the system is stabilized. Then, the hood 105 may be balanced for (Qidle) by
reducing (VFD) speed. The routine then again waits until the system is stabilized.
                                              18

    [0089]         In another embodiment, the sensor may also be calibrated. The
calibration of the sensors may be done during a first-time calibration mode, and is
performed for cold cooking appliances and when there are no people present under the
hood. The radiant temperature (IRT) may be measured and compared to a thermostat
reading (Tspace), and the difference may be stored in the control module 302 memory
305 for each of the sensors. During subsequent calibration procedures or when the
exhaust system is off, the change in the radiant temperature is measured again and is
compared to the calibrated value stored in the memory 305. If the reading is higher than
a maximum allowed difference, a warning is generated in the control module 302 to
clean the sensors. Otherwise the sensors are considered calibrated and the calibration
routine is. terminated.
    [0090]      For a system with multiple hoods, one fan and no motorized balancing
dampers, the calibration routine may follow substantially the same steps as for a single
hood, single fan, and no motorized damper system shown above, except that every hood
is calibrated. The routine starts with Hood 1 and follows hood balancing steps as shown
above, as well as sensor calibration steps as shown above.
    [0091]         Once the first hood is calibrated, the airflow for the next hood is
verified. If the airflow is at set point (Qdesign), the sensor calibration is repeated for the
second (and any subsequent) hood. If the airflow is not at the set point (Qdesign), the
airflow and the sensor calibration may be repeated for the current hood. The routine may
be followed until all hoods in the system are calibrated. The new design airflows for all
hoods may be stored in the memory 305..
    [0092]         An automatic calibration routine may also be performed. During the
calibration routine all hoods are calibrated to design airflow (Qdesign) at minimum static
pressure. The calibration procedure may be activated during the time the cooking
equipment is not planned to be used with all hood filters in place, and repeated regularly
(once a week for example). After the calibration routine is activated, the exhaust fan may
be set at maximum speed VFD = 1 (VFD = 1 - full speed; VFD = 0 - fan is off) and all
balancing dampers fully opened (BDP= I - fully open; BDP = 0 - fully closed). The
exhaust airflow may be measured for each hood using the TAB port pressure transducer
(PT). In various embodiments each hood may be balanced to achieve the design airflow
(Qdesign) using the balancing dampers. At this point, each BDP may be less than 1 (less
than fully open). There may also be a waiting period in which the system stabilizes.
    [0093]      If the exhaust airflow is not at (Qdesign), the VFD setting is reduced until
                                               19

one of the balancing dampers is fully open. In at least one embodiment, this procedure
may be done in steps by gradually reducing the VFD setting by 10% at each iteration
until one of the dampers is fully open and the air flow is (Q) = (Qdesign). If, on the other
hand, the airflow is Q = (Qdesign), the pressure transducer setting in the main exhaust
duct (Pstdesign), the.fan speed VFDdesign, and the balancing damper position
BDPdesign settings may be stored, and the calibration is finished.
    [0094]      After calibration, which may or may not need to be done, infrared sensors
312, for example, measure the radiant temperature (IRT) of the cooking surface of any
of the at least one cooking appliance 115, the ambient air temperature sensor 310
measures the temperature of the space around the cooking appliance, another
temperature sensor may measure the cooking temperature, the pressure sensor 308
measures the pressure in the hood, and the exhaust temperature sensor 314 measures the
temperature in the exhaust hood. The control module 302 then determines the status of
the cooking appliance based on the measured temperatures and pressure. The system
and method by which the cooking states, such as the off, idle, and cooking states and
associated exhaust air flows (Q) are determined are included in WO 2010/065793
attached herewith as United States Patent Application 20110284091. The flare-up and fire
states and associated exhaust air flows (Q) and/or actions to be taken are determined
using the system as described herein and in the attached United States Patent Application
20110284091.
    [0095]      According to first embodiments, the disclosed subject matter includes a
method of detecting a condition in an exhaust ventilation system including an exhaust
hood, the. method comprising. The method includes receiving, at a control module, an
exhaust air temperature signal representing a temperature of the exhaust air in a vicinity
of the exhaust hood, the exhaust air temperature signal being generated by a temperature
sensor. The method further includes receiving, at the control module, a radiant
temperature signal representing a temperature of a surface of a cooking appliance that
generates the exhaust air, the radiant temperature signal being generated by a radiant
temperature sensor. The method further includes receiving, at the control module, a
pressure signal representing the pressure in the hood. The method further includes
regulating a flow of exhaust to a first flow rate associated with an idle status of the
cooking appliance. responsively to the received exhaust air temperature signal, the
received radiant temperature signal, and the received pressure signal. The method
further includes regulating a flow of exhaust to a second high flow rate, higher than the
                                              20

first low flow rate, associated with an high load cooking status of the cooking appliance
responsively to the received exhaust air temperature signal, the received radiant
temperature signal, and the received pressure signal and regulating a fire suppression
mechanism responsively to at least one of the received exhaust air temperature signal,
the received radiant temperature signal, and the received pressure signal.
     [0096]     According to variations of the first embodiments, the disclosed subject
matter includes further first embodiments that include, using the control module, and
responsively to the radiant temperature, exhaust temperature, and a further signal,
distinguishing a flare-up from a grill from a fire. and regulating a flow rate of the exhaust
and/or regulating a fire suppression mechanism responsively to the distinguishing.
According to variations of the first embodiments, the disclosed subject matter includes
further first embodiments in which the further signal includes an optical luminance
signal. According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further first
embodiments in which the distinguishing includes filtering an optical or radiant
temperature signal so as to detect a temporal fluctuation and employing machine
classification to recognize distinguish at least two cooking states and a fire state.
According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further first
embodiments in which the fire suppression mechanism is activated in response to. the
calculation by the control module of a total heat gain above the predetermined magnitude
threshold combined with a duration of the heat gain being above a predetermined
duration threshold. According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter
includes further first embodiments in which the control module includes a processor and
a memory with a program stored in the memory adapted for implementing a machine
classification algorithm and to control the exhaust flow and fire suppression mechanism
responsively to a classifier output thereof. According to variations thereof, the disclosed
subject matter includes further first embodiments in which the pressure signal is
indicative of a flow rate through the exhaust hood. According to variations thereof, the
disclosed subject matter includes further first embodiments in which the regulating a
flow of exhaust includes regulating a flow of exhaust responsively to the pressure signal.
     [0097]     According to second embodiments, the disclosed subject matter includes a
method of responding to a condition in an exhaust ventilation system including an
exhaust hood, the method comprising. The method includes regulating a flow of exhaust
through a ventilation component responsively to a first sensor adapted to detect a fume
load from a cooking appliance and detecting a fire condition responsively to the first
                                              21

sensor and regulating a fire suppression mechanism responsively to the detecting. The
regulating and detecting are performed by a controller configured to receive signals from
the sensor.
    [0098]      According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes
further second embodiments in which the ventilation component includes a cooking
exhaust hood. According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes
further second embodiments in which the controller includes a digital processor adapted
for distinguishing first and second fume load states and for generating a command signal
respective to each of the exhaust flow rates. According to variations thereof, the
disclosed subject matter includes further second embodiments in which the digital
processor implements a machine classification algorithm. According to variations
thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further second embodiments in which the
digital processor implements a machine classification algorithm generated from a
supervised learning. According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter
includes further second embodiments in which According to variations thereof, the
disclosed subject matter includes further second embodiments in which the digital
processor implements an algorithm that is responsive to whether the first signal is
temporally fluctuating or not and for regulating the flow of exhaust responsively thereto.
According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further second
embodiments in which the first sensor includes a radiant temperature sensor or an air
temperature sensor. According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter
includes further second embodiments in which the first sensor includes a camera.
According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further second
embodiments in which the camera is able to image in infrared wavelengths. According
to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further second embodiments
in which the camera is able to image in optical wavelengths. According to variations
thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further second embodiments in which
According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further second
embodiments in which the camera is able to image in infrared and optical wavelengths.
According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further second
embodiments that include low pass filtering the signal from the first sensor, wherein and
the regulating is responsive both the signal from the first sensor and a result of the low
pass filtering.
    [0099]      According to third embodiments, the disclosed subject matter includes a
                                             22

method of detecting a condition in an exhaust ventilation system including an exhaust
hood. The method includes receiving, at a control module, an exhaust air temperature
signal representing a temperature of the exhaust air in a vicinity of the exhaust hood, the
exhaust air temperature signal being generated by a temperature sensor and receiving, at
the control module, a radiant temperature signal representing a temperature of a surface
of a cooking appliance that generates the exhaust air, the radiant temperature signal
being generated by a radiant temperature sensor. The method also includes receiving, at
the control module, a pressure signal representing the pressure in the hood and
determining in the control module a state of the cooking appliance responsively to the
received exhaust air temperature signal, the received radiant temperature signal, and the
received pressure signal. The method further includes determining a fire. condition in
response to the determined appliance state.
    [00100]     According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes
further third embodiments in which the cooking appliance state includes a cooking state,
an idle state, an off state, a flare-up state, and a fire state and the control modules is
configured to generate a respective control signal for each of the detected states and the
method includes regulating an exhaust flow rate and a fire suppression mechanism
responsively to. the respective control signals. According to variations thereof, the
disclosed subject matter includes further third embodiments that include using the
control module, and responsively to the radiant temperature, exhaust temperature, and a
further signal, distinguishing a flare-up from a grill from a fire and regulating a flow rate
of the exhaust and/or regulating a fire suppression mechanism responsively to the
distinguishing. According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes
further third embodiments in which the further signal includes an optical luminance
signal. According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further
third embodiments in which the distinguishing includes filtering an optical or radiant
temperature signal so as to detect a temporal fluctuation and employing machine
classification to recognize distinguish at least two cooking states and a fire state.
According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further third
embodiments in which the fire suppression mechanism is activated in response to the
calculation by the control module of a total heat gain above the predetermined magnitude
threshold combined with a duration of the heat gain being above a predetermined
duration threshold. According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter
includes further third embodiments in which the control module includes a processor and
                                                23

a memory with a program stored in the memory adapted for implementing a machine
classification algorithm and to control the exhaust flow and fire suppression mechanism
responsively to a classifier output thereof.
     [00101]    The disclosed embodiments include systems configured to implement any
of the foregoing methods.
     [00102]    The disclosed embodiments include systems including an exhaust hood
configured to implement any of the foregoing methods.
     [00103]    The disclosed embodiments include systems including an exhaust hood
and a controller configured to implement any of the foregoing methods.
     [00104]    According to fourth embodiments, the disclosed subject matter includes a
combined fire suppression and exhaust flow control system. A controller has at least one.
first sensor, the controller being configured to generate a exhaust flow rate command
signal for controlling an exhaust flow rate responsively to a signal from the first sensor.
The controller is further configured to generate a fire suppression command signal for
controlling a fire suppression mechanism responsively to a signal from the first sensor.
     [00105]    According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes
further fourth embodiments that include an exhaust fan-speed drive connected to the
controller so as to receive the exhaust flow rate command signal. According to variations
thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further fourth embodiments in which the
first sensor. According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further
fourth embodiments that include a cooking exhaust hood. According to variations
thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further fourth embodiments in which the
controller includes a digital processor adapted for distinguishing first and second fume
load states and for generating a command signal respective to each of the exhaust flow
rates. According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further
fourth embodiments in which the digital processor implements a machine classification
algorithm. According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further
fourth embodiments in which the digital processor implements a machine classification
algorithm generated from a supervised learning. According to variations thereof, the
disclosed subject matter includes further fourth embodiments in which the digital
processor implements an algorithm that is responsive to whether the first signal is
temporally fluctuating or not and for regulating the flow of exhaust responsively thereto.
According.to variations thereof, the.disclosed subject matter includes further fourth
embodiments in which the first sensor includes a radiant temperature sensor or an air
                                             24

temperature sensor. According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter
includes further fourth embodiments in which the first sensor includes a camera.
According to variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further fourth
embodiments in which the camera is able to image in infrared wavelengths. According to
variations thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further fourth embodiments in
which the camera is able to image in optical wavelengths. According to variations
thereof, the disclosed subject matter includes further fourth embodiments in which the
camera is able to image in infrared and optical wavelengths.
    [00106]      Embodiments of a method, system and computer program product for
controlling exhaust flow rate, may be implemented on a general-purpose computer, a
special-purpose computer, a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and
peripheral integrated circuit element, an ASIC or other integrated circuit, a digital signal
processor, a hardwired electronic or logic circuit such as a discrete element circuit, a
programmed logic device such as a PLD, PLA, FPGA, PAL, or the like. In general, any
process capable of implementing the functions or steps described herein may be used to
implement embodiments of the method, system, or computer program product for
controlling exhaust flow rate.
    [00107]      Furthermore, embodiments of the disclosed method, system, and computer
program product for controlling exhaust flow rate may be readily implemented, fully or
partially, in software. using, for example, object or object-oriented software development
environments that provide portable source code that may be used on a variety of computer
platforms.
    [00108]      Alternatively, embodiments of the disclosed method, system, and computer
program product for controlling exhaust flow rate may be implemented partially or fully in
hardware using, for example, standard logic circuits or a VLSI design. Other hardware or
software may be used to implement embodiments depending on the speed and/or
efficiency requirements of the systems, the particular function, and/or a particular
software or hardware system, microprocessor, or microcomputer system being utilized.
Embodiments of the method, system, and computer program product for controlling
exhaust flow rate may be implemented in hardware and/or software using any known or
later developed systems or structures, devices and/or software by those of ordinary skill
in the applicable art from the functional description provided herein and with a general
basic knowledge of the computer, exhaust flow, and/or cooking appliance arts.
    [00109]      Moreover, embodiments of the disclosed method, system, and computer
                                                25

program product for controlling exhaust flow rate may be implemented in software
executed on a programmed general-purpose computer, a special purpose computer, a
microprocessor, or the like. Also, the exhaust flow rate control method of this invention
may be implemented as a program embedded on a personal computer such as a JAVA@
or CGI script, as a resource residing on a server or graphics workstation, as a routine
embedded in a dedicated-processing system, or the like. The method- and system may
also be implemented by physically incorporating the method for controlling exhaust flow
rate. into a software and/or hardware system, such as the hardware and software systems
of exhaust vent hoods and/or appliances.
    [00110]      It is, therefore, apparent that there is provided in accordance with the.present
invention, a method, system, and computer program product for controlling exhaust flow rate,
determining a fire condition, and suppressing the fire if a fire condition is detected. While
this invention has been described in conjunction with a number of embodiments, it is
evident that many alternatives, modifications and variations would be or are apparent to
those of ordinary skill in the applicable arts. Accordingly, applicants intend to embrace
all such alternatives, modifications, equivalents and variations that are within the spirit and
scope of this invention.
                                                   26

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
         1.        A method. of responding to a condition in an exhaust ventilation system including
an exhaust hood, the method comprising:
         regulating a flow of exhaust through a ventilation component responsively to a first
sensor adapted to detect a fume load from a cooking appliance; and
         detecting a fire condition responsively to said first sensor and regulating a fire
suppression mechanism responsively to the detecting;
         the first regulating and detecting being performed by a controller configured to receive
signals from the sensor.
         2.        The method of claim 1, wherein the ventilation component includes a cooking
exhaust hood.
         3.       The method of claim I or 2, wherein the controller includes a digital processor
adapted for distinguishing first and second fume load states and for generating a command signal
respective to each of the exhaust flow rates.
         4.       The method of claim 3, wherein the digital processor implements a machine
classification algorithm.
         5.       The method of claim 3 or 4, wherein the digital processor implements a machine
classification algorithm generated from a supervised learning.
         6.       The method of claim 3, wherein the digital processor implements an algorithm
that is responsive to whether said first signal is temporally fluctuating or not and for regulating
the flow of exhaust responsively thereto.
         7.       The method of claim I or 3, wherein said first sensor includes a radiant
temperature sensor or an air temperature sensor.
         8.       The method of claim 7 wherein the first sensor includes a camera.
                                                   27

         9.     The method of claim 8, wherein the camera is able to image in infrared
wavelengths.
         10.    The method of claim 8, wherein the camera is able to image in optical
wavelengths.
         11.    The method of claim 8, wherein the camera is able to image in infrared and
optical wavelengths.
         12.    The method of any one of claims 2 to 11, further comprising low pass filtering the
signal from the first sensor, wherein and said regulating is responsive both the signal from the
first sensor and a result of the low pass filtering.
         13.    The method of one of claims I to 12 provided that in combination with one of
claims 8-11, wherein the camera images, optical., infrared or both, are image-processed to
generate a state vector to reduce its dimensionality as an input for recognizing fire and cooking
events.
         14.    The method of claim 13, wherein a supervised learning algorithm is trained based
on normal cooking and fire conditions , and the supervised learning algorithm is then used to
recognize and classify, respectively. normal cooking and fire conditions.
                                                   28

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
