                                                Abstract
An apparatus for dispensing a fluid comprises a housing and a resilient liner adapted to hold the
fluid disposed in the housing. A fluid transfer mechanism is in fluid communication between the
liner and an applicator assembly mounted on the housing for dispensing the fluid on the skin of the
user. The applicator assembly includes an actuator movable relative to the housing so as to
activate the fluid transfer mechanism when the actuator is reciprocated. A fluid delivery element
is held in contact against skin of a user for applying the fluid onto the skin. The fluid delivery
element is supported on the actuator to be movable together with the actuator by varying contact
pressure with the skin. Each movement of the actuator generates continuous negative pressure
within the liner for drawing fluid through the fluid transfer mechanism and collapsing the liner.

                AN APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR DISPENSING A FLUID
[0001] The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application
No. 2014239270, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                        Technical Field
[0001a] An apparatus and method for dispensing fluid is described and, more particularly, an
apparatus and method for dispensing fluid on the skin.
                                          Background
[0001b] The following discussion of background art is included to explain the context of the
present invention. A reference herein to a matter which is given as prior art is not to be taken
as an admission that the matter was known or that the information it contains was part of the
common general knowledge as at the priority date of any of the claims.
[0002] Conventional hand held and manipulated fluid applicators for dispensing a lotion on
the skin are numerous. In some applicators, a lotion supply mechanism is provided to deliver
the lotion from a fluid storage container to the applicator that makes contact with the skin. In
one embodiment, applicators have a squeezable fluid storage container connected to a roller
mounting applicator head which meters fluid from the container to a fluid absorbent
dispensing roller or pad made of felt or other porous resilient material. This configuration is
limited, however, to use with less viscous fluids, which are capable of passing through a
porous member and are believed to be less well suited for applying more viscous fluids, such
as sunscreen. Also, many applicators require the consumer to squeeze the entire volume of
the container each time a small amount of fluid is desired while others require a repetitive and
uncomfortable pumping to transfer fluid making such mechanisms tedious and uncomfortable
to operate. Further, these applicators cannot be operated in an inverted position due to the
need to maintain contact between the fluid and the supply mechanism. This inversion makes
the applicator awkward and difficult in reaching certain areas of the body. In the case of
conventional bottled lotion containers, these generally require the consumer to first pour fluid
onto their palms and then spread the fluid onto their skin, a process that can be both tedious
and messy and make it difficult to apply uniform layers of lotion. Finally, aerosol spray devices
are used to deliver some lotions but these add cost and disposable waste while introducing
the mess of overspray, the flammability danger of alcohol-based propellants, the inhalation
                                                1

risk of aerosolized micro particles and the inability to deliver more viscous skin protecting
emollients.
[0003] For the foregoing reasons, there is a need for a new apparatus and method for
dispensing a fluid. The new apparatus and method should provide fluid application to the skin
in a faster, less messy, and more effective manner than conventional fluid delivery
applicators.
                                             Summary
[0004] In one form of the invention there is provided an apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the
fluid dispensing apparatus comprising: a housing defining an open interior; a resilient liner
adapted to hold the fluid, the liner configured to be at least partially disposed in the interior of
the housing; an applicator assembly for dispensing the fluid on the user's skin, the applicator
assembly mounted on the housing, the applicator assembly including an actuator movable
relative to the housing in a first direction and a second direction, and a fluid delivery element
which is held in contact against skin of a user for applying the fluid onto the skin, the fluid
delivery element supported on the actuator to be movable together with the actuator by
varying contact pressure with the skin; and a pump assembly at least partially disposed in the
housing, the pump assembly comprising a pump chamber having an inner surface defining an
interior cavity for accommodating fluid, an end of the pump chamber configured to be in fluid
communication with the liner and having at least one opening for receiving the fluid, and a
piston member in fluid communication with the applicator assembly, the piston member
operatively connected to the actuator of the applicator assembly and reciprocably disposed in
the pump chamber for movement in a first direction toward the end of the housing and in a
second opposite direction, the piston member including a hollow piston rod closed at an inner
end and open at an outer end, the piston rod having a port intermediate the length of the
piston rod opening into the interior of the piston rod, and a piston head mounted on the piston
rod such that the port is between the piston head and the inner end of the piston rod, the
piston head sealing against the inner surface of the pump chamber and defining a variable
volume chamber between the piston head and the end of the pump chamber, wherein each
movement of the actuator in the first direction reduces the volume of the variable volume
chamber for generating positive pressure in the pump chamber and forcing fluid through the
port in the piston member and to the applicator assembly for dispensing the fluid, and each
movement of the piston member in the second direction increases the volume of the variable
volume chamber and generates continuous negative pressure within the pump chamber for
                                                 2

drawing fluid through the at least one opening in the end of the pump chamber and collapsing
the liner.
[0005] In another form of the invention there is provided an apparatus for dispensing a fluid,
the fluid dispensing apparatus comprising: a housing defining an open interior; a resilient liner
adapted to hold the fluid, the liner configured to be at least partially disposed in the interior of
the housing; a fluid transfer mechanism in fluid communication with the liner, the fluid transfer
mechanism configured to transfer the fluid from the liner; a valve disposed in a fluid flow path
from the liner to the fluid transfer mechanism; and an applicator assembly for dispensing the
fluid on the user's skin, the applicator assembly mounted on the housing in fluid
communication with the fluid transfer mechanism, the applicator assembly including an
actuator movable relative to the housing in a first direction and a second direction so as to
activate the fluid transfer mechanism to transfer the fluid from the liner to the applicator
assembly when the actuator is reciprocated, and a fluid delivery element which is held in
contact against skin of a user for applying the fluid onto the skin, the fluid delivery element
supported on the actuator to be movable together with the actuator by varying contact
pressure with the skin, wherein the valve opens only when the actuator moves in the second
direction for allowing fluid flow from the liner to the fluid transfer mechanism, and wherein
each movement of the actuator in the second direction generates continuous negative
pressure within the liner for drawing fluid from the liner via the flow path to the fluid transfer
mechanism and collapsing the liner.
[0006] In another form of the invention there is provided an apparatus for dispensing a fluid,
the fluid dispensing apparatus comprising: a housing defining an open interior; a resilient liner
adapted to hold the fluid, the liner configured to be at least partially disposed in the interior of
the housing; a fluid transfer mechanism in fluid communication with the liner, the fluid transfer
mechanism configured to transfer the fluid from the liner; an applicator assembly for
dispensing the fluid on the user's skin, the applicator assembly mounted on the housing in
fluid communication with the fluid transfer mechanism, the applicator assembly including an
actuator movable relative to the housing in a first direction and a second direction so as to
activate the fluid transfer mechanism to transfer the fluid from the liner to the applicator
assembly when the actuator is reciprocated, and a fluid delivery element which is held in
contact against skin of a user for applying the fluid onto the skin, the fluid delivery element
supported on the actuator to be movable together with the actuator by varying contact
pressure with the skin; and a valve disposed in a fluid flow path from the fluid transfer
mechanism to the applicator assembly, wherein the valve opens only when the actuator
                                                 3

moves in the first direction, and wherein each movement of the actuator in the second
direction generates continuous negative pressure within the liner for drawing fluid through the
fluid transfer mechanism and collapsing the liner.
[0007] In another form of the invention there is provided an apparatus for dispensing a fluid,
the fluid dispensing apparatus comprising: a housing defining an open interior; a resilient liner
adapted to hold the fluid, the liner configured to be at least partially disposed in the interior of
the housing; a fluid transfer mechanism in fluid communication with the liner, the fluid transfer
mechanism configured to transfer the fluid from the liner and comprising a pump defining a
chamber and a plurality of fluid receiving ports in a generally radial array, the ports opening
into the pump chamber; an applicator assembly for dispensing the fluid on the user's skin, the
applicator assembly mounted on the housing in fluid communication with the fluid transfer
mechanism, the applicator assembly including an actuator movable relative to the housing in
a first direction and a second direction so as to activate the fluid transfer mechanism to
transfer the fluid from the liner to the applicator assembly when the actuator is reciprocated,
and a fluid delivery element which is held in contact against skin of a user for applying the
fluid onto the skin, the fluid delivery element supported on the actuator to be movable
together with the actuator by varying contact pressure with the skin, wherein pressure is
provided to chamber to the fluid for forcing fluid from the chamber under the positive pressure
when the actuator moves in the first direction when the actuator and fluid delivery element are
pressed by contact with the user's skin, and wherein each movement of the actuator in the
second direction generates continuous negative pressure within the liner for drawing fluid
through the fluid transfer mechanism and collapsing the liner.
[0007b] In another form of the invention there is provided an apparatus for dispensing a fluid,
the fluid dispensing apparatus comprising: a housing defining an open interior; a resilient liner
adapted to hold the fluid, the liner configured to be at least partially disposed in the interior of
the housing; a fluid transfer mechanism in fluid communication with the liner, the fluid transfer
mechanism configured to transfer the fluid from the liner; and an applicator assembly for
dispensing the fluid on the user's skin, the applicator assembly mounted on the housing in
fluid communication with the fluid transfer mechanism, the applicator assembly including an
actuator movable relative to the housing in a first direction and a second direction so as to
activate the fluid transfer mechanism to transfer the fluid from the liner to the applicator
assembly when the actuator is reciprocated, the actuator comprising a tray member for
temporarily storing the fluid supplied from fluid transfer mechanism, the tray member having
at least one elongated aperture in fluid communication with the fluid transfer mechanism, and
                                                 4

a fluid delivery element which is held in contact against skin of a user for applying the fluid
onto the skin, the fluid delivery element supported on the actuator to be movable together
with the actuator by varying contact pressure with the skin, wherein the aperture extends
along the longitudinal axis of the fluid delivery element for communicating fluid to the fluid
delivery element, wherein each movement of the actuator in the second direction generates
continuous negative pressure within the liner for drawing fluid through the fluid transfer
mechanism and collapsing the liner.
[0007c] In another form of the invention a fluid transfer assembly for use with an apparatus for
dispensing a fluid, the fluid dispensing apparatus including a source of fluid and a
reciprocating applicator assembly for dispensing the fluid on skin of a user, the fluid transfer
assembly comprising: a housing having an inner surface defining an interior cavity for
accommodating the fluid, an end of the housing adapted to be in fluid communication with the
source of fluid and having at least one opening for receiving the fluid; and a piston member
adapted to be in fluid communication with the applicator assembly, the piston member
adapted to be operatively connected to the applicator assembly and reciprocably disposed in
the housing for movement in a first direction toward the end of the housing and in a second
opposite direction, the piston member including a hollow piston rod closed at an inner end
and open at an outer end, the piston rod having a port intermediate the length of the piston
rod opening into the interior of the piston rod, and a piston head mounted on the piston rod
such that the port is between the piston head and the inner end of the piston rod, the piston
head sealing against the inner surface of the housing and defining a variable volume chamber
between the piston head and the end of the housing, wherein each movement of the piston
member in the first direction reduces the volume of the variable volume chamber for
generating positive pressure in the chamber and forcing fluid through the port in the piston
member and to the applicator assembly, and each movement of the piston member in the
second direction increases the volume of the variable volume chamber for generating
negative pressure within the chamber for drawing fluid through the at least one opening in the
end of the housing.
[0007d] In another form of the invention there is provided a fluid transfer assembly for use
with an apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid dispensing apparatus including a source of
fluid and a reciprocating applicator assembly for dispensing the fluid on skin of a user, the
fluid transfer assembly comprising: a housing defining an interior cavity for accommodating
the fluid, an end of the housing adapted to be in fluid communication with the source of fluid
and having at least one opening for receiving the fluid; a piston member defining a through
                                                 5

passage and in fluid communication with the applicator assembly, the piston member adapted
to be operatively connected to the applicator assembly and reciprocably disposed in the
housing for movement in a first direction toward the end of the housing and in a second
opposite direction, the piston member and the housing defining a variable volume chamber
between the piston member and the end of the housing; and a valve disposed in a fluid flow
path from the fluid source through the at least one opening to the variable volume chamber,
wherein the valve opens only when the piston member moves in the second direction for
allowing fluid flow from the fluid source to the chamber, wherein each movement of the piston
member in the first direction reduces the volume of the variable volume chamber for
generating positive pressure in the chamber and forcing fluid through the through passage in
the piston member and to the applicator assembly, and each movement of the piston member
in the second direction increases the volume of the variable volume chamber for generating
negative pressure within the chamber for drawing fluid via the flow path through the at least
one opening in the end of the housing.
[0007e] In another form of the invention there is provided a fluid applicator assembly for use
with an apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid dispensing apparatus including a source of
fluid and a fluid transfer assembly in fluid communication with the fluid source for delivering
fluid to the fluid applicator assembly, the fluid applicator assembly comprising: a tray member
adapted to be in fluid communication with the fluid transfer assembly, the tray member
comprising a pair of spaced walls, each wall tapered to an inner edge surface for defining a
recess for temporarily storing the fluid supplied from the fluid transfer assembly, each one of
the pair of walls having a tapered outer surface that tapers toward the inner edge of the wall,
and means for mounting the roller, the roller mounting means including a pair of resilient
spaced arms, each one of the arms spanning between and interconnecting the spaced walls;
and a roller assembly, including a roller rotatably mounted to the spaced arms for contacting
skin of a user for applying the fluid onto the skin, wherein the roller may be attached to the
tray member or removed from the tray member by manually spreading the arms.
[0007f] In another form of the invention there is provided a method for dispensing a fluid,
comprising the steps of: providing a fluid dispensing apparatus, including a housing defining
an open interior; a resilient liner adapted to hold the fluid, the liner configured to be at least
partially disposed in the interior of the housing; an applicator assembly for dispensing the fluid
on the user's skin, the applicator assembly mounted on the housing, the applicator assembly
including an actuator movable relative to the housing in a first direction and a second
direction, and a fluid delivery element which is held in contact against skin of a user for
                                                  6

applying the fluid onto the skin, the fluid delivery element supported on the actuator to be
movable together with the actuator by varying contact pressure with the skin; and a pump
assembly at least partially disposed in the housing, the pump assembly comprising a pump
chamber having an inner surface defining an interior cavity for accommodating fluid, an end
of the pump chamber configured to be in fluid communication with the liner and having at
least one opening for receiving the fluid, and a piston member in fluid communication with the
applicator assembly, the piston member operatively connected to the actuator of the
applicator assembly and reciprocably disposed in the pump chamber for movement in a first
direction toward the end of the housing and in a second opposite direction, the piston
member including a hollow piston rod closed at an inner end and open at an outer end, the
piston rod having a port intermediate the length of the piston rod opening into the interior of
the piston rod, and a piston head mounted on the piston rod such that the port is between the
piston head and the inner end of the piston rod, the piston head sealing against the inner
surface of the pump chamber and defining a variable volume chamber between the piston
head and the end of the pump chamber, wherein each movement of the actuator in the first
direction reduces the volume of the variable volume chamber for generating positive pressure
in the pump chamber and forcing fluid through the port in the piston member and to the
applicator assembly for dispensing the fluid, and each movement of the piston member in the
second direction increases the volume of the variable volume chamber and generates
continuous negative pressure within the pump chamber for drawing fluid through the at least
one opening in the end of the pump chamber and collapsing the liner; contacting the skin of a
user with the fluid delivery element; pressing the fluid delivery element against the skin of the
user for moving the actuator in the first direction; and releasing pressure of the fluid delivery
element against the skin of the user for allowing the actuator to move in the second direction.
[0007g] In another form of the invention there is provided a fluid applicator assembly for use
with an apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid dispensing apparatus including a source of
fluid and a fluid transfer assembly in fluid communication with fluid source for delivering fluid
to the fluid applicator assembly, the fluid applicator assembly comprising: a tray member in
fluid communication with the fluid transfer assembly, the tray member comprising a pair of
spaced walls, each wall tapered to an outer edge surface for defining a recess for temporarily
storing the fluid supplied from fluid transfer assembly; and a roller assembly, including a roller
rotatably mounted to the tray member for contacting skin of a user for applying the fluid onto
the skin.
                                                 7

[0007h] In another form of the invention there is provided a fluid applicator assembly for use
with an apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid dispensing apparatus including a source of
fluid in fluid communication with the fluid applicator assembly, the fluid applicator assembly
comprising: a tray member adapted to be in fluid communication with the fluid source, the tray
member comprising a pair of spaced walls, each wall tapered to an inner edge surface for
defining a recess for temporarily storing the fluid supplied from the fluid source, each one of
the pair of walls having a tapered outer surface that tapers toward the inner edge of the wall,
and means for mounting the roller, the roller mounting means including a pair of resilient
spaced arms, each one of the arms spanning between and interconnecting the spaced walls;
and a roller assembly, including a roller rotatably mounted to the spaced arms for contacting
skin of a user for applying the fluid onto the skin, wherein the roller may be attached to the
tray member or removed from the tray member by manually spreading the arms.
[0007i] Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in this
specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of
the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of one or
more other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereto.
                              Brief Description Of The Drawings
[0008] For a more complete understanding of the present invention, reference should now be
had to the embodiments shown in the accompanying drawings and described below. In the
drawings:
[0009] FIG. 1 is a perspective view of an embodiment of an apparatus for dispensing fluid.
[0010] FIG. 2 is an exploded perspective view of the fluid dispensing apparatus as shown in
FIG. 1.
[0011] FIG. 3 is a transverse cross-section view of an embodiment of a pressurization
chamber for use in the fluid dispensing apparatus as shown in FIG. 1.
[0012] FIG. 4 is an elevation view of an embodiment of a top plate for use in the fluid
dispensing apparatus as shown in FIG. 1.
[0013] FIG. 5 A is a top plan view of the top plate as shown in FIG. 4.
                                                8

[0014] FIG. 5B is a bottom plan view of the top plate as shown in FIG. 4.
[0015] FIG. 6 is a longitudinal cross-section view of the top plate as shown in FIG. 4.
[0016] FIG. 7 is an elevation view of an embodiment of a support member for use in the fluid
dispensing apparatus as shown in FIG. 1.
[0017] FIG. 8A is a top plan view of the support member as shown in FIG. 7.
[0018] FIG. 8B is a bottom plan view of the support member as shown in FIG. 7.
[0019] FIG. 9 is a longitudinal cross-section view of the support member as shown in FIG. 7.
[0020] FIG. 10 is an elevation view of an embodiment of a tray member for use in the fluid
dispensing apparatus as shown in FIG. 1.
[0021] FIG. 11 A is a top plan view of the tray member as shown in FIG. 10.
[0022] FIG. 1 IB is a bottom plan view of the tray member as shown in FIG. 10.
[0023] FIG. 12A is a longitudinal cross-section view of the tray member as shown in FIG. 10.
[0024] FIG. 12B is a transverse cross-section view of the tray member as shown in FIG. 10.
[0025] FIG. 13 is a longitudinal cross-section of the fluid dispensing apparatus as shown in
FIG. 1 in a first position.
[0026] FIG. 14 is a longitudinal cross-section of the fluid dispensing apparatus as shown in
FIG. 13 in a second position.
[0027] FIG. 15 is a transverse cross-section of the fluid dispensing apparatus as shown in
FIG. 13.
[0028] FIG. 16 is a transverse cross-section of the fluid dispensing apparatus as shown in
FIG. 14 in a second position.
                                                 9

[0029] FIG. 17 is an exploded perspective view of an embodiment of a roller assembly for use
in the fluid dispensing apparatus as shown in FIG. 1.
[0030] FIG. 18 is a longitudinal cross-section of another embodiment of a fluid transfer
assembly for in a fluid dispensing apparatus as shown in FIG. 1 in a first position.
[0031] FIG. 19 is a longitudinal cross-section of another embodiment of a fluid transfer
assembly for in a fluid dispensing apparatus as shown in FIG. 1 in a second position.
Description
[0032] Certain terminology is used herein for convenience only and is not to be taken as a
limiting. For example, words such as "upper," "lower," "left," "right," "horizontal," "vertical,"
"upward," "downward," "top" and "bottom" merely describe the configurations shown in the
 FIGs. Indeed, the components may be oriented in any direction and the terminology,
therefore, should be understood as encompassing such variations unless specified otherwise.
The words "interior" and "exterior" refer to directions toward and away from, respectively, the
geometric center of the core and designated parts thereof. The terminology includes the
words specifically mentioned above, derivatives thereof and words of similar import.
[0033]    Referring   now to the drawings, wherein        like reference   numerals   designate
corresponding or similar elements throughout the several views, an apparatus for dispensing
a fluid is shown in FIGs. 1 and 2 and generally designated at 50. The fluid dispensing
apparatus     50   is a   hand-held   dispenser comprising     a reservoir assembly 52       for
accommodating a fluid, a pump assembly 54 in fluid communication with the reservoir
assembly, and an applicator assembly 56 in fluid communication with the pump assembly for
applying the fluid on a surface, such as skin of a human body.
[0034] The reservoir assembly 52 comprises a housing 58 and a liner 60 for the housing. The
housing 58 is a substantially hollow member defining an interior cavity 62 having an open
outer end 64. As shown in FIGs. 1 and 2, the housing 58 may be a trapezoid shape. It is
understood, however, that the housing 58 can be any geometric shape, including, for
example, square, rectangular, oval, circular, conical, cylindrical and combinations and
variations of these, including irregular patterns. The shape of the housing 58 may be selected
based on considerations of ergonomics, performance, cost of production, safety and security.
                                                10

The shape of the housing 58 should also consider ease of fabrication, for example, by various
methods from plastic and metal. In the present embodiment, the trapezoid shape has sides
that taper inwardly toward the outer end 64 of the housing 58. This configuration offers a
natural grip for stability in the hand of a user. The exterior edges of the housing 58 may be
rounded such that the housing fits comfortably and securely in the palm of the hand. Various
contouring is also contemplated to enhance user performance.
[0035] The dimensions of the housing 58 may vary depending on desired fluid volume to be
contained within the housing, as well as certain desired performance attributes. For example,
a larger, longer housing 58 may extend the reach of a user during use, whereas a smaller
housing will reduce the contained fluid volume, but enable easy storage, such as in a pocket.
[0036] The housing 58 may be formed from rigid or semi-rigid polymers, including, but not
limited to, delrin, Nory  TM
                             (a blend of polyphenylene oxide (PPO) and polystyrene developed
by General Electric Plastics, now SABIC Innovative Plastics), acrylonitrile butadiene styrene
(ABS), acetal, polypropylene, high impact polystyrene, or any combinations thereof. In some
embodiments, the housing 58 may comprise metal, such as die cast metal, or have metal
inserts to increase the strength of the housing. The preferred thickness of the material of the
housing 58 should be sufficient to withstand impact on a hard surface when dropped and will
depend on the material itself. It is understood that the housing 58 is not intended to be limited
by the materials listed here, but may be carried out using any suitable synthetic or natural
material which allows the construction and use of the apparatus described herein and
sufficient to meet strength, weight, and other desired characteristics.
[0037] The exterior surface of the housing 58 may be designed to enhance appearance and
performance. For example, a textured exterior surface can aid the user in gripping the
housing 58, especially if fluid is on the exterior surface or the hand. Further, the exterior
surface may be designed to enhance gripping during the operation of not only squeezing but
also pressing the container's applicator assembly against the surface on which the liquid is to
be applied. Accordingly, the exterior surface of the housing 58 may have features to enhance
grip and to aid in control of the housing during fluid application, including, but not limited to,
dimples, indentations, finger grips, slots, channels, protrusions, ridges, bumps, and the like,
or any combination thereof. The features of the exterior surface of the housing 58 may be
formed of materials desirable to the intended use, including requirements of durability,
washability, UV resistance, water and heat resistance and impact resistance. Still further
exterior features include camouflage for military and hunting applications or the addition of an
                                                11

elastomer or rubber to enhance the gripping capability. As shown in FIG. 1, the housing 58
may also have a slot or other anchoring point to permit the attachment of a carrying lanyard.
[0038] In another embodiment, the housing 58 may be a disposable container made in a
known manner of a pliant injection molded plastic material such that fluid may be dispensed
by manually squeezing, and thus compressing, the side walls of housing. In still another
embodiment, the housing 58 may be made of a clear or partially transparent material that will
provide the means to visually ascertain the level of fluid remaining in the liner 60.
[0039] The liner 60 is a flexible, resilient pouch for holding the fluid to be dispensed. The liner
60 has a top wall 66 defining a circular opening 68 into the interior of the pouch. The liner 60
is adapted to be received within the cavity 62 of the housing 58 such that the liner is at least
partially disposed within the housing. As seen in FIG. 2, the liner 60 can be provided with a
flange 70 extending outwardly from the periphery of the top wall 66. The outer end 64 of the
housing 58 has a shoulder 72 formed along the inside of the edge of the housing 58 for
receiving the flange 70 of the liner 60.
[0040] A particular performance attribute of the liner 60 is that it collapses as it is depleted of
fluid, without permitting air to fill the void created by the depleted fluid. This attribute enables
the fluid in the liner to remain in constant contact with the pressurization chamber,
irrespective of the relative position of the applicator during use. Accordingly, the applicator will
operate at any angle of use, a particularly useful feature for applying sunscreen or other fluids
to surfaces that are above the level of the user's hand as the user holds the applicator during
use.
[0041] Still another attribute of the liner 60 is that it enables the transfer of fluid by responding
to a relative vacuum generated by the pump assembly 54. Accordingly, the liner 60 does not
need to be under positive pressure and has neutral pressure while not in use, reducing the
risk of fluid leakage at seams, holes or other opening that are in contact with the liner, such
as the point of connection between the housing 58 and the applicator assembly 56.
[0042] In one embodiment, the liner 60 is sized and shaped to fit snugly within the housing
58. The interior of the housing 58 is shaped to retain the liner 60 and limit slippage and
bunching of the liner, which may include beveled corners and other irregular forms that can
better hold the liner in position during use and refilling. The flexibility and resiliency of the
material of the liner 60 allows the liner to conform to the interior of the housing 58 to maximize
                                                   12

the amount of fluid that can be stored within the housing. The interior of the housing 58 may
further comprise a textured surface or added lubrication to assist in the placement and
removal of the liner 60, or to allow the liner to change shape in reaction to the addition or
removal of fluid.
[0043] In another embodiment, the liner 60 may have the additional feature of a second
opening that permits the liner to be refilled through a separate portal passing through the
exterior housing and without having to remove the applicator assembly 56. This additional
portal may be formed with a threaded plug, or other sealable closure elements, that permits
for the portal to be readily opened and closed from the exterior of the housing 58.
[0044] In another embodiment, the liner 60 may have lateral creases or accordion folds (not
shown) that enable the liner to collapse beginning at one end of the liner, preferably the end
distal to the pump assembly 54, until it is fully depleted. This operation will provide a visual
indication to the user as to the degree to which the liner 60 is depleted and thus the amount
of fluid remaining.
[0045] The material of the liner 60 may be clear or translucent, which will enable the user to
determine the amount of fluid in the liner during use or filling. It is understood that in this
embodiment, the housing 58 may also be formed from transparent or translucent material. In
another embodiment, the material of the liner 60 may be opaque or of a composition that
shield the contents from UV light for use, for example, with photosensitive fluids such as, for
example, sunscreen. The liner color, along with symbols, logos, and other markings (not
shown), will also enable the user to readily identify the specific contents of a given liner 60
without foreknowledge of its contents and without removing the liner from the applicator.
[0046] The liner 60 is removable for cleaning, refilling or replacement. The user can also fill
the liner 60 while the liner is in the housing 58. In this method, the housing 58 provides rigidity
and stability to the liner 60 during filling. An indicator (not shown) may be provided on the liner
60 to identify a maximum fill level to reduce spills during filling.
[0047] In another embodiment, prefilled liners may also be provided for replacement of a
spent liner 60. A prefilled liner would permit branding and labeling of the fluid such that the
user would know the content of the liner. Prefilled liners could then be sold separately as a
disposable item. A prefilled liner would incorporate a sealing method that allows the user to
quickly peel off a seal before replacing the liner, or the liner 60 may incorporate a membrane
                                                   13

seal that is punctured during insertion, thereby accessing the fluid for use. Prefilled liners 60
would have features that secure the liner, align it within the housing 58 and allow it to form a
seal.
[0048] The pump assembly 54 provides a means for drawing fluid from the reservoir
assembly 52 and delivering the fluid to the applicator assembly 56 for dispensing the fluid.
The pump assembly 54 comprises a pressurization chamber 74 for temporarily storing fluid
received from the reservoir assembly 52, a piston member 76, an inlet valve 78 for permitting
fluid to be drawn into the pressurization chamber 74 from the reservoir assembly 52, and an
outlet valve 80 permitting the fluid to be delivered from the pressurization chamber 74 to the
applicator assembly 56. As described herein below, the pump assembly 54 is actuated for
drawing fluid from the reservoir assembly 52, pressurizing the fluid within the pressurization
chamber 74, and delivering the fluid to the applicator assembly 56.
[0049] The pressurization chamber 74 is a hollow, cylindrical tube defining an interior
chamber 82 closed at an inner end 84. As seen in FIG. 3, the closed inner end 84 of the
pressurization chamber 74 defines a central axial opening 86 and a plurality of fluid intake
ports 88 radially spaced from the central axial opening. The pressurization chamber 74 is
sized and shaped based on the space limitations of the reservoir assembly 52 and the
desired amount of fluid to be discharged in a single activation of the applicator. The
embodiment of the pressurization chamber 74 shown in the FIGs. is just one example, and it
is understood that the pressurization chamber may be configured in any suitable shape. The
interior chamber 82 of the pressurization chamber 74 is adapted to meet preferred fluid
delivery volume requirements or other performance needs. A larger chamber 82 will require a
higher positive pressure input for actuation by the user and will reduce the relative fluid
storage capacity of the reservoir assembly 52. A smaller chamber 82 will deliver less fluid per
actuation, but will require less actuation pressure, a desirable feature for some applications
where less applicator pressure on the application surface is conducive to operator control and
comfort. For example, a chamber volume of 0.066 oz. delivers a sufficient fluid volume of
0.033 oz. The pressurization chamber 74 is readily modifiable to transfer larger or smaller
fluid volumes. The configuration of the pressurization chamber 74 delivers lotions with
viscosities typical for a range of hand applied sunscreens, lotions, balms, and other skin care
products. The pressurization chamber dimensions, fluid transfer ports, valve flow rates and
springs may be modified to be adapted to other fluids with greater or lesser relative viscosity.
                                                14

[0050] The piston member 76 is an elongated rod having an inner portion 89 and a hollow
outer portion 90 open at an outer end 91. The piston member 76 has at least one port 94
opening into the interior of the outer portion 90. A circular piston head 96 extends normally
from the perimeter of the piston member 76 intermediate its length. The diameter of the piston
head 96 corresponds to the diameter of the interior of the pressurization chamber 74. The
piston head 96 may have a circumferential groove 98 for receiving an o-ring 100 for sealing
engagement of the piston head against the wall of the pressurization chamber 74.
Alternatively, the piston head 96 may be of sufficiently accurate tolerance to form a seal to the
inner wall of the pressurization chamber 74.
[0051] The piston head 96 may have a flat surface or may have a concave or convex surface.
The piston member 76 is at least partially disposed in the pressurization chamber 74. In a
home position of the piston member 76, the inner portion 89 extends at least partially into the
central axial opening 86 in the inner end 84 of the pressurization chamber 74. A circular stop
valve 78 is disposed at the inner end of the pressurization chamber 74 and defines a central
opening for passing the inner portion 89 of the piston member 76. The diameter of the stop
valve 78 is the same as the interior diameter of the pressurization chamber 74. The stop
valve 78 is in sealing contact with the bottom wall of the pressurization chamber 74 such that
a fluid path from the liner 60 via the intake ports 88 is normally closed by the stop valve 78.
The piston member 76 is biased outwardly toward the home position by means of a coil
spring 102 interposed between the piston head 96 and the bottom wall of the pressurization
chamber 74. The spring 102 also serves to hold the stop valve 78 in place. It is understood
that other loading springs may be suitable for the fluid dispensing apparatus 50, such as leaf,
volute, or torsion springs. The inner portion 89 of the piston member 76 is sized so that the
piston member can reciprocate axially relative to the pressurization chamber 74 and the stop
valve 78 when the pump assembly 54 is actuated. Axial movement of the piston member 76
is guided by confined movement of the inner portion 89 in the central axial opening 86. This
arrangement increases the stability of the mechanism of the pump assembly 54 during use.
[0052] A one-way valve 80 is provided at the outer end 91 of piston member 76. In the
embodiment shown in FIGs. 1 and 2, the one-way valve 80 is a duckbill valve. A press fit
collar or a molded undercut holds the duckbill valve 80 in position on the piston member 76.
The flat end of the duckbill valve 80 is configured to open in response to positive pressure in
the pressurization chamber 74 allowing fluid to pass from the pressurization chamber. When
pressure is removed, or there is negative pressure in the pressurization chamber 74, the
duckbill valve 80 closes preventing fluid backflow, including air, from            entering the
                                               15

pressurization chamber 74. It is understood that other one-way valves may be suitable for use
in the fluid dispensing apparatus 50, including, but not limited to, ball check valves, umbrella
valves, swing check valves or tilting disc check valves, stop-check valves, lift-check valves
and the like.
[0053] The applicator assembly 56 comprises various components that are integrated to
enhance the rapid delivery of large liquid volumes. In this regard, the applicator assembly 56
receives fluid, distributes it into position for uptake on the applicator head, minimizes
excessive fluid flow that may lead to leaks and spills, applies a uniform coating of liquid while
at the same time enables the transfer of pressure that enables the operation of the
pressurization chamber. In particular, the applicator assembly 56 performs these operations
while enabling the user to regulate variably the rate at which fluid is delivered to the
application surface by varying the amount of pressure applied to the applicator on the delivery
surface. Notably, the user may choose to apply little pressure so as to stop the flow of liquid,
as may be desirable in instances where the user wishes to operate the applicator on the
application surface to manage the liquid that is already applied, without delivering additional
fluid at that moment.
[0054] The applicator assembly 56 comprises a top plate 104, a fluid upload tray 106 and a
roller head assembly 108, including a roller 110. The applicator assembly 56 receives and
transmits fluid from the pump assembly 54 to the roller 110. Referring to FIGs. 4-5B, the top
plate 104 includes a base member 112 and integral peripheral walls 114 extending outwardly
from the base member. The base member 112 and peripheral walls 114 define a cavity 1 16
for slidingly receiving the upload tray 106 for reciprocation of the upload tray with respect to
the top plate 104. The top plate 104 has a flange 118 depending inwardly from the base
member 112. The outer surface of the flange 118 defines a peripheral groove 120 for
receiving a ring seal 122. The ring seal 122 can be, for example, an O-ring or a quad-ring
which provides extra sealing force. The top plate 104 fits snugly onto the housing 58 with the
flange 118 received in the outer end 64 of the housing. The ring seal 122 on the exterior of
the flange 118 provides sealing engagement with the inner surface of the housing 58. As
seen in the FIGs. 13 and 14, the top plate 104 captures the flange 70 of the liner 60 against
the shoulder 72 at the outer end of the housing 58.
[0055] The inner surface of the base member 112 of the top plate 104 defines a central axial
bore 126 (FIG. 6) for receiving the outer end of the pressurization chamber 74. An
interference fit or a snap fit into the bore 126 may be provided for the pressurization chamber
                                                 16

74. Alternatively, the bore 126 may be internally threaded, for cylindrical configurations as
shown, for removable threaded attachment of the pressurization chamber 74 within the bore
 126. A more permanent attachment alternative includes gluing or welding the pressurization
chamber 74 in the bore 126. The base member 112 of the top plate 104 also has a central
port 127 opening into the bore 126. The port 127 is sized to pass the outer portion 90 of the
piston member 76.
[0056] The upload tray 106 comprises an inner support member 128 and an outer tray
member 130 (FIG. 2). Although the inner support member 128 and the outer tray member
 130 of the upload tray 106 are depicted here as separate pieces, they could be combined in a
single part depending on the manufacturing process employed. The upload tray 106 is
configured as a floating bed and is actuated in cooperation with the pump assembly 54 to
deliver fluid from the pressurization chamber 74 through the interior of the outer portion 90 of
the piston member 76 to the outer tray member 130.
[0057] Referring to FIGs. 7-9, the inner support member 128 is a generally planar component
having outwardly extending legs 132 at each end. The support member 128 defines a central
opening 134 wherein the diameter of the outer end of the opening is reduced forming an
interior shoulder 136. The support member 128 is configured to slidingly fit within the cavity
 116 of the top plate 104. As seen in FIGs. 2, 13 and 14, the central opening 134 of the
support member 128 is adapted to receive the outer end 91 of the piston member 76. The
outer end 91 of the piston member 76 may be press fit into the opening 134 and seat against
the shoulder 136. In this arrangement, the upload tray 106 is in fluid communication with fluid
in the liner 60 via the piston member 76. Referring to FIGs. 10-12B, the outer tray member
 130 is a generally planar component having a concave outer surface 138. The outer tray
member 130 has outwardly projecting end walls 144 and spaced sidewalls 146 which
interconnect the end walls. The end walls 144 and sidewalls 146 of the outer tray member
 130 together with the concave outer surface 138 define an elongated recess 148. The outer
surface 138 of the tray member 130 defines a central channel 142 opening into the recess
 148 and extending transversely along a midline from the outlet port 140 substantially over the
entire length of the outer tray member 130. The outer tray member 130 is configured to fit
snugly against the surface of the support member 128 between the legs 132.
[0058] In another embodiment (not shown), a plurality of fluid dispensing ports may be
provided in the upload tray 106 in a predetermined spacing, locations and sizes to deliver
fluid to the roller 110. The dispensing ports may be in a generally linear array between the
                                              17

end walls 144 with an internal manifold passage supplying each of the ports with fluid at a
generally equal pressure. The size of the ports is selected to render the fluid dispensing
apparatus 50 suitable for dispensing viscous fluids, such as sunscreen and bodily lotions.
[0059] The components of the applicator assembly 56 may be injection molded from a semi
rigid polymeric material, such as high impact polystyrene. It is understood that suitable
components may be molded from other semi-rigid polymers or a resilient polymeric material.
The applicator assembly may be molded from a thermoplastic elastomer, such as TPE
(thermoplastic elastomers). However, other resilient materials may be used including, but not
limited to silicone, natural rubber, latex rubber, butyl rubber, nitrile rubber, or metal. It is
understood that the scope of the fluid dispensing apparatus is not intended to be limited by
the materials listed here, but may be carried out using any material which allows the
construction and operation of the fluid dispensing apparatus described herein.
[0060] As shown in FIGs. 1 and 2, the roller 110 comprises an elongated cylindrical roller. In
this embodiment, the roller 110 provides rapid uniform delivery of fluid over large areas of
skin. The roller 110 is supported by the outer tray member 130. The end walls 144 have
opposed journal apertures 150. The roller 110 includes axle projections 152 on the ends of
the roller 110 that rotatably engage the corresponding apertures 150 allowing for rotatable
attachment of the roller 110 in the recess 148 of the outer tray member 130. The end walls
144 or the roller 110 may be sufficiently resilient to allow deformation so that the axle
projections 152 engage or disengage with the upload tray member 130.
[0061] The upload tray assembly 106 and the roller 110 are movable together relative to the
housing 58 so as to be capable of being depressed inwardly against the bias of the spring
102 of the pump assembly 54 as a consequence of the user pressing the roller 110 inward,
for example, against the skin. This actuates the pump assembly 54 for supplying fluid with the
roller 110 in rolling contact with the skin for dispensing fluid onto the skin. With this
arrangement, the user is only required to bring the roller 110 in contact with the skin and
apply pressure to actuate the pump assembly 54 for transferring the fluid to the upload tray
106 each time the applicator assembly 56 is depressed. The applicator assembly 56 performs
the dual function of both actuating the pump assembly 54 while also dispersing the fluid in a
controlled manner necessary to achieve the uniform coverage desirable in some applications.
[0062] In one embodiment, the roller 110 may have a textured surface. The textured surface
may be provided by grooves or projections of different sizes, shapes and geometries. The
                                               18

grooves or projections may also have different patterns or may be oriented at different angles
with respect to the longitudinal axis of the roller, such as in a zigzag, chevron, herringbone,
hex, dot, or checkerboard patterns. In particular, the grooves may have a depth of about
0.005" to 0.05" for hard surface rollers and 0.005" to 0.25" for pliable surfaces. The
projections may represent raised areas spaced apart or interconnected to define one or more
open channels. The projections can be in the form of nubs or fin segments that are arranged
in rows oriented generally parallel to the blades or spaced fin segments that are arranged
both parallel to and perpendicular to the blades. Whether using grooves or projections, and
without being bound by theory, it is believed the textured roller 110 will pick up a volume of
fluid from the tray member 130. The textured surface also provides traction on the skin to
allow the roller 110 to roll and not slide on the skin. The latter causes smearing of fluid,
whereas rolling application spreads fluid evenly.
[0063] A non-porous, rigid roller 110 surface is preferred. In another embodiment, the roller
 110 may be made of a synthetic or natural material suitable for absorbing fluid and dispensing
the fluid upon surfaces against which the roller is rolled. A non-porous roller with a firm
surface is preferred as it minimizes wear, clogging, smearing or slipping. Further, it is
understood that the roller 110 as a fluid application member can be any rotatable element,
such as a generally toroidal element. For example, a rotary ball applicator may be used to
dispense fluid. The rotary ball is normally biased against a spring member via an elongated
biasing element to prevent dispensing of the fluid.
[0064] In an alternate embodiment, a flexible sleeve can be mounted on a solid roller core
(not shown). Such a configuration provides a pliable surface of the flexible sleeve to make
contact with skin while retaining the rigid core foundation to enable the actuation of the pump
assembly 54. The flexible sleeve can have any particular surface texture as demanded by the
particular liquid application demand. A cupped surface is preferred since it can effectively
collect fluid from the upload tray 106 while effectively delivering the fluid as the flexible
surface comes into contact with the skin, deforms at its surface and releases the fluid as
desired on the skin contact point. It is anticipated that instead of an attachable flexible sleeve,
a similar result can be achieved by affixing a flexible material onto the exterior of the rigid
core. This over molded surface can incorporate a range of surface textures including a
cupped, ridged, channeled surface, or combination of these patterns.
[0065] In yet another embodiment, a fluid application member may comprise a rigid blade
member (not shown). The blade member has at least one aperture that is in fluid
                                                 19

communication with the pressurization chamber 74 for dispensing fluid on the skin. The body
of the blade member tapers to an edge laterally along its length, providing a beveled surface
amenable to spreading fluid as the blade is rapidly passed along the skin surface. In this
embodiment, the blade member constitutes the actuator that is supported on the upload tray
106 to be movable relative to the reservoir assembly 52 for actuating the pump assembly 54
each time the blade member is pressed against and released from the skin for delivering fluid.
[0066] Another embodiment of the applicator assembly 56 is shown in FIG. 17 and generally
designated at 160. In this embodiment, a roller 162 is sufficiently porous to allow fluid to be
transferred under pressure from a hollow interior of the roller 162 to an exterior surface for
application onto skin. Such porosity is provided by holes 164 that act as tubes for transferring
fluid from the interior to the exterior, or by using mesh, foam or other materials that permit the
transfer of pressurized fluid. The roller 162 rotates on axles 166 that are hollow and connect
to the vertical support stanchions 168 rising from the support tray 170. The support
stanchions 168 are hollow and open to the axle interiors enabling fluid to flow to the interior of
the roller 162. The interior of the stanchions 168 open to each other at a midpoint juncture
172 that is in fluid communication with the top plate 104. Accordingly, when the roller 162 is
pressed onto the skin, reciprocation of the support tray 170 actuates the pump assembly 54,
transferring fluid from the liner 60 through the stanchions 168 and into the roller 162 interior
where the fluid passes through the porous roller material and is dispensed.
[0067] A cap 154 (FIG. 1) may be provided for covering the applicator assembly 56, including
the top plate 104, when the fluid dispensing apparatus 50 is not in use. Features may be
provided to enable the cap 154 to be attached, such as clips, flange edge, grooves, anchor
points for latches, tabs, clips, magnets or other attachment means. The cap 154 may also be
tethered to the housing 58. Similar attachment devices may also be used to enable the cap to
be attached to the sides or bottom of the housing for temporary storage purposes. The cap
154 may also have indentations, bumps, ridges, or other surface shapes or textures to
provide grip points for fingers in the process of cap removal and replacement and also aid in
gripping when attached temporarily to the housing 58 during use. Such features may also
include a flat surface that supports the housing 58 during the process of refilling.
[0068] In another embodiment, the cap 154 could be pivotally tethered in a central location
such that the cap 154 can pivot on the tether and be snapped either over the applicator
assembly 56 or on the housing 58 opposite the applicator assembly 56. In yet another
embodiment, the cap 154 tether would be mounted to a member that slides in a track (not
                                                  20

shown) from one end of the housing 58 to the other, thereby allowing the tether to be much
shorter but still allowing the cap 154 to be placed by the user either over the applicator
assembly 56 or on the housing 58 opposite the applicator assembly 56.
[0069] Referring to FIG. 2, to assemble the fluid dispensing apparatus 50, the liner 60 is
positioned within the housing 58. The applicator assembly 56 is then mounted onto the
housing 58 over the liner 60. In this arrangement, the pressurization chamber 74 fits into the
opening 68 in the top wall 66 of the liner 60. The flange 70 on the liner 60 is sealed between
the shoulder 72 in the outer end 64 of the housing 58 and the bottom surface of the top plate
104. Disassembly is the reverse of assembly, beginning with pulling the applicator assembly
56 from connection to the housing 58. The applicator assembly 56 may be further
disassembled by removing the roller 110 from between the end walls 144 of the tray member
130. The applicator assembly 56 may be cleaned and the roller 110 replaced, if preferred.
[0070] In use, and referring to FIGs. 2 and 13-16, the user grasps the housing 58 and places
the roller 110 in contact with an area of skin to be covered with fluid. The user then presses
the roller 110 against the skin. The pressure applied on the roller 110 forces the connected
upload tray 106 inwardly into the cavity 116 defined by the walls 114 of the top plate 104. As
the upload tray 106 moves inwardly, the piston member 76 connected to the upload tray 106
is also moved inwardly relative to the pressurization chamber 74 and against the force of the
spring 102. As the piston head 96 advances toward the inner wall of the pressurization
chamber 74, the spring 102 is compressed between the piston head 96 and the stop valve 78
on the bottom of the pressurization chamber 74. Concurrently, the volume of the chamber 82
is reduced, generating positive pressure within the chamber. Due to the positive pressure in
the chamber 82, the stop valve 78 is forced against the bottom of the pressurization chamber
74 sealing the intake ports 88. The fluid in the variable volume chamber 82 is forced through
the port 94 and the hollow outer portion 90 of the piston member 76. The pressurized fluid
moving through the piston member 76 opens the duckbill valve 80 at the outer end 91 of the
piston member 76. The fluid exiting the duckbill valve 80 passes through the opening 134 in
the support member 138 and the outlet port 140 onto the outer surface 138 of the tray
member 130. The fluid is distributed laterally from the outlet port 140 along the channel 142 in
the tray member 130 between the outer surface 138 of the tray member 130 and the roller
110. When the user moves the roller 110 along the skin, the roller rotates. The rotating roller
110 picks up the fluid and draws the fluid past the edge of the side walls 146 of the tray
member where the fluid is screened to a uniform layer that is then delivered to the skin as the
roller 110 continues to rotate further while making contact with the skin.
                                                21

[0071] The upload tray 106 retains unused fluid in an area above the tray member 130 and
beneath the roller 110 to reduce leakage that may otherwise result from excess fluid
accumulating on the exposed surface of the applicator assembly 56. Such unused fluid is
held in the tray member 130 awaiting transfer to the roller 110 during rotation. As shown in
 FIGs. 14 and 16, the edges of the side walls 146 of the tray member 130 are adjacent the
roller 1 10. In use, the side walls 146 screen excess fluid from the rotating roller 110 when
passing through a clearance between the side walls and the roller prior to dispensing fluid
over the skin. The close fit of the roller 110 in the recess 148 of the tray member 130 helps
provide a more uniform fluid coating on the roller 110 and reduces fluid buildup on the edges
of the tray member 130. With this arrangement, fluid application to the skin is more efficient
and reduces repetitive passage on the skin to place uniform layer of fluid.
[0072] When substantial pressure is released from the roller 110, though the roller 110 is not
necessarily out of contact with the skin, the spring 102 returns the piston member 76 to the
home position (FIGs. 13 and 15) with the piston head 96 against the inner surface of top plate
 104 along with the upload tray 106 and roller 110 to their most outward position. This
movement increases the volume of the chamber 82 and generates negative pressure within
the pressurization chamber 74. Due to the negative pressure, the duckbill valve 80 closes
preventing fluid and air from flowing back through the piston member 76. The negative
pressure further causes the stop valve 78 to deform along its circumference for drawing fluid
from the liner 60 into the chamber 82 through the intake ports 88 in the bottom wall of the
pressurization chamber 74. The flexible liner 60 is deformable and contracts as fluid is drawn
into the pressurization chamber 74. Air does not enter the liner 60, which enables inverted
operation and eliminates the need to shake fluid into position to be taken up into the
pressurization chamber 74 via the intake ports 88. One or more vent holes may be provided
in the housing 58 to enable the liner 60 to more easily contract.
[0073] Thus, in response to roller 110 pressure against the skin, the pump assembly 54 is
actuated for changing a volume of the chamber drawing fluid from the reservoir assembly 52
and dispensing the fluid onto the skin. The pressurization chamber 74 functions to draw fluid
in increments from the liner 60 in quantities that vary based on user input. At the same time,
the fluid is delivered to the skin as a consequence of the reciprocation of the applicator
assembly 56 relative to the reservoir assembly 52 and rotation of the roller 110 in contact with
the skin. A particular advantage of the pump assembly 54 is that piston operation in a rigid
chamber can generate significant pressure based upon the input pressure received from the
                                                22

applicator assembly 56 being pressed onto a surface. This performance attribute is favorable
in certain applications in which greater pumping pressures are demanded, such as for rapid
delivery, or to deliver more viscous fluids. Another advantage of the pump assembly 54 is the
piston reacts immediately to changes in input pressure from the applicator assembly 56 as
contact is made with the surface. This attribute allows the user to closely regulate the amount
of fluid flow at any time by changing the amount of input pressure. Still another advantage to
the pump assembly 54 is that the pump assembly, inclusive of valves, ports, piston
components and the spring, is contained within a single compact element. This minimizes the
amount of space for the pumping operation, thereby increasing the amount of space available
for fluid storage and for other components of the fluid dispensing apparatus 50.
[0074] It is preferred the applicator assembly 56 may make light contact with the skin without
activating the flow of fluid. This operating feature is desirable to provide the user with the
ability to use the applicator surface to spread fluid that has already been discharged onto the
skin. Accordingly, the spring 102 is sufficiently resilient to resist light inward force of the
applicator assembly 56 without actuating the flow of fluid.
[0075] Once the reservoir assembly 52 is empty, the liner 60 may be refilled. As described
herein, the applicator assembly 56 and associated pump assembly 54 are integrated and
detachable from the housing 58, which renders the reservoir assembly 52 easy to refill, clean,
or replace. The liner 60 can remain in the housing 58 or be removed for refilling or
replacement. Alternatively, the reservoir assembly 52 may incorporate a sealable refilling
opening on a side of the housing 58 adjacent to or opposite the applicator assembly 56. The
opening would have a sealing cap that attaches by means of screwing, snapping or other
means of sealable capture. The cap may incorporate a tether to prevent it from being
separated from the unit or a living hinge to allow pivotal attachment. The liner may also be
replaced as a disposable element of the apparatus.
[0076] The fluid dispensing apparatus 50 may be used to apply, for example, sun screen or
other body lotions. Other suitable fluids may include skin care compositions suitable for
topical application, including, for example, shaving gels, lubricants, shaving foams, shaving
lotions, shave oils, skin treatment compositions and creams, astringents, exfoliant scrubs, sun
screens, cleansers, skin conditioning aids, ointments, imaging agents applied to the skin
surface, depilatories, balms, lotions, moisturizers, fragrances, anesthetic lotions, and
combinations thereof. Other fluids unrelated to personal care to be dispensed may include
paints, adhesives, solvents, and other materials of a viscosity similar to that of commonly
                                               23

used sun screens presently available. Further, other fluids with viscosities dissimilar to
commonly-used sun screens may be delivered with the apparatus. This is possible by making
readily apparent modifications in valves, ports, spring sizes, and other dimensions and
materials of the apparatus as described.
[0077] Referring to FIGs. 18 and 19, another embodiment of a pump assembly is shown and
generally designated at 180. The pump assembly 180 comprises a bellows pump 182. A
duckbill valve 80 is integral with the bellows pump 182. An outer wall of the bellows pump 182
is fixed relative to the top plate 104. A pump flange 184 extends inwardly into the bellows
pump 182 from the upload tray 106. When the bellows pump 182 is extended into the
pressurization chamber 74, the bellows pump 182 displaces a volume of fluid through the
duckbill valve 80. The displacement of the fluid is thus accomplished without the resistance of
the other embodiment of the pump assembly 54, thus reducing the force necessary to
displace fluid by means of a linear motion. In another embodiment, the fluid dispensing
apparatus 50 may be configured such that it does not include a reservoir assembly 52 or a
liner 60. In this embodiment, the fluid dispensing apparatus 50 is adapted to be easily
attached to existing packages of fluid, such as bottles, tubes or containers that are already
produced and sold as prefilled volumes of fluid. A one-way valve, such as a duckbill valve,
would be incorporated into the receptacle that is to receive the prefilled package that would
allow the internal pressure of the package to be equalized when fluid is withdrawn via the fluid
delivery system. In an embodiment without a liner, the body would be sealed so that the fluid
is contained directly within the outer device walls. A sealably attached cap would be
incorporated for refilling the device. A duckbill valve or other one way valve would also be
incorporated into the cap or the body of the device, thereby allowing air to be drawn into the
unit when fluid is drawn out by the fluid dispensing apparatus 50.
[0078] Although the present invention has been shown and described in considerable detail
with respect to only a few exemplary embodiments thereof, it should be understood by those
skilled in the art that we do not intend to limit the invention to the embodiments since various
modifications, omissions and additions may be made to the disclosed embodiments without
materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of the invention, particularly in
light of the foregoing teachings. For example, an extension arm can be added as a fixed or
detachable element to enable a longer reach of the fluid dispensing apparatus to desired
application targets, such as the back. Moreover, the fluid dispensing apparatus can be made
to dispense any fluid, such as paints, oils, and the like. Accordingly, we intend to cover all
such modifications, omissions, additions and equivalents as may be included within the spirit
                                                 24

and scope of the invention as defined by the following claims. In the claims, means-plus
function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the
recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus,
although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a
cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together, whereas a screw employs a helical
surface, in the environment of fastening wooden parts, a nail and a screw may be equivalent
structures.
                                             25

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1. An apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid dispensing apparatus comprising:
        a housing defining an open interior;
        a resilient liner adapted to hold the fluid, the liner configured to be at least partially
disposed in the interior of the housing;
        an applicator assembly for dispensing the fluid on the user's skin, the applicator
assembly mounted on the housing, the applicator assembly including
        an actuator movable relative to the housing in a first direction and a second direction,
and
        a fluid delivery element which is held in contact against skin of a user for applying the
fluid onto the skin, the fluid delivery element supported on the actuator to be movable
together with the actuator by varying contact pressure with the skin; and
        a pump assembly at least partially disposed in the housing, the pump assembly
comprising:
        a   pump chamber        having   an  inner surface     defining  an  interior cavity for
accommodating fluid, an end of the pump chamber configured to be in fluid communication
with the liner and having at least one opening for receiving the fluid, and
        a piston member in fluid communication with the applicator assembly, the piston
member operatively connected to the actuator of the applicator assembly and reciprocably
disposed in the pump chamber for movement in a first direction toward the end of the housing
and in a second opposite direction, the piston member including
        a hollow piston rod closed at an inner end and open at an outer end, the piston rod
having a port intermediate the length of the piston rod opening into the interior of the piston
rod, and
        a piston head mounted on the piston rod such that the port is between the piston head
and the inner end of the piston rod, the piston head sealing against the inner surface of the
                                                 26

pump chamber and defining a variable volume chamber between the piston head and the end
of the pump chamber,
         wherein each movement of the actuator in the first direction reduces the volume of the
variable volume chamber for generating positive pressure in the pump chamber and forcing
fluid through the port in the piston member and to the applicator assembly for dispensing the
fluid, and each movement of the piston member in the second direction increases the volume
of the variable volume chamber and generates continuous negative pressure within the
pump chamber for drawing fluid through the at least one opening in the end of the pump
chamber and collapsing the liner.
2. An apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid dispensing apparatus comprising:
         a housing defining an open interior;
         a resilient liner adapted to hold the fluid, the liner configured to be at least partially
disposed in the interior of the housing;
         a fluid transfer mechanism in fluid communication with the liner, the fluid transfer
mechanism configured to transfer the fluid from the liner;
         a valve disposed in a fluid flow path from the liner to the fluid transfer mechanism; and
         an applicator assembly for dispensing the fluid on the user's skin, the applicator
assembly mounted on the housing in fluid communication with the fluid transfer mechanism,
the applicator assembly including
         an actuator movable relative to the housing in a first direction and a second direction
so as to activate the fluid transfer mechanism to transfer the fluid from the liner to the
applicator assembly when the actuator is reciprocated, and
         a fluid delivery element which is held in contact against skin of a user for applying the
fluid onto the skin, the fluid delivery element supported on the actuator to be movable
together with the actuator by varying contact pressure with the skin,
         wherein the valve opens only when the actuator moves in the second direction for
allowing fluid flow from the liner to the fluid transfer mechanism, and wherein each movement
                                                   27

of the actuator in the second direction generates continuous negative pressure within the liner
for drawing fluid from the liner via the flow path to the fluid transfer mechanism and collapsing
the liner.
3. An apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid dispensing apparatus comprising:
        a housing defining an open interior;
        a resilient liner adapted to hold the fluid, the liner configured to be at least partially
disposed in the interior of the housing;
        a fluid transfer mechanism in fluid communication with the liner, the fluid transfer
mechanism configured to transfer the fluid from the liner;
        an applicator assembly for dispensing the fluid on the user's skin, the applicator
assembly mounted on the housing in fluid communication with the fluid transfer mechanism,
the applicator assembly including
        an actuator movable relative to the housing in a first direction and a second direction
so as to activate the fluid transfer mechanism to transfer the fluid from the liner to the
applicator assembly when the actuator is reciprocated, and
        a fluid delivery element which is held in contact against skin of a user for applying the
fluid onto the skin, the fluid delivery element supported on the actuator to be movable
together with the actuator by varying contact pressure with the skin; and
        a valve disposed in a fluid flow path from the fluid transfer mechanism to the
applicator assembly,
        wherein the valve opens only when the actuator moves in the first direction, and
wherein each movement of the actuator in the second direction generates continuous
negative pressure within the liner for drawing fluid through the fluid transfer mechanism and
collapsing the liner.
4. The fluid dispensing apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein the valve comprises a duckbill
valve for permitting fluid flow through the valve only in response to pressurizing of fluid
upstream of the valve such as by moving the actuator in the first direction.
                                                 28

5. An apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid dispensing apparatus comprising:
        a housing defining an open interior;
        a resilient liner adapted to hold the fluid, the liner configured to be at least partially
disposed in the interior of the housing;
        a fluid transfer mechanism in fluid communication with the liner, the fluid transfer
mechanism configured to transfer the fluid from the liner and comprising a pump defining a
chamber and a plurality of fluid receiving ports in a generally radial array, the ports opening
into the pump chamber;
        an applicator assembly for dispensing the fluid on the user's skin, the applicator
assembly mounted on the housing in fluid communication with the fluid transfer mechanism,
the applicator assembly including
        an actuator movable relative to the housing in a first direction and a second direction
so as to activate the fluid transfer mechanism to transfer the fluid from the liner to the
applicator assembly when the actuator is reciprocated, and
        a fluid delivery element which is held in contact against skin of a user for applying the
fluid onto the skin, the fluid delivery element supported on the actuator to be movable
together with the actuator by varying contact pressure with the skin,
        wherein pressure is provided to chamber to the fluid for forcing fluid from the chamber
under the positive pressure when the actuator moves in the first direction when the actuator
and fluid delivery element are pressed by contact with the user's skin, and wherein each
movement of the actuator in the second direction generates continuous negative pressure
within the liner for drawing fluid through the fluid transfer mechanism and collapsing the liner.
6. The fluid dispensing apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein fluid receiving ports are
positioned symmetrically about a central axial opening through said pump.
7. The fluid dispensing apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the applicator assembly is
removably mounted to the housing.
                                                  29

8. An apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid dispensing apparatus comprising:
        a housing defining an open interior;
        a resilient liner adapted to hold the fluid, the liner configured to be at least partially
disposed in the interior of the housing;
        a fluid transfer mechanism in fluid communication with the liner, the fluid transfer
mechanism configured to transfer the fluid from the liner; and
        an applicator assembly for dispensing the fluid on the user's skin, the applicator
assembly mounted on the housing in fluid communication with the fluid transfer mechanism,
the applicator assembly including
        an actuator movable relative to the housing in a first direction and a second direction
so as to activate the fluid transfer mechanism to transfer the fluid from the liner to the
applicator assembly when the actuator is reciprocated, the actuator comprising a tray
member for temporarily storing the fluid supplied from fluid transfer mechanism, the tray
member having at least one elongated aperture in fluid communication with the fluid transfer
mechanism, and
        a fluid delivery element which is held in contact against skin of a user for applying the
fluid onto the skin, the fluid delivery element supported on the actuator to be movable
together with the actuator by varying contact pressure with the skin,
        wherein the aperture extends along the longitudinal axis of the fluid delivery element
for communicating fluid to the fluid delivery element,
        wherein each movement of the actuator in the second direction generates continuous
negative pressure within the liner for drawing fluid through the fluid transfer mechanism and
collapsing the liner.
9. The fluid dispensing apparatus as recited in claim 8, wherein the tray member comprises a
pair of spaced walls, each wall having a tapered outer surface that tapers toward the inner
edge of the spaced wall.
                                                 30

10. The fluid dispensing apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the fluid delivery element
comprises a roller assembly, including a roller rotatably mounted to actuator.
11. The fluid dispensing apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein the roller is made of an
elastic material.
12. The fluid dispensing apparatus as recited in claim 11, wherein the applicator comprises
means for mounting the roller, the roller mounting means comprising:
         a pair of resilient spaced arms formed integrally of said piston head, whereby the roller
may be assembled or disassembled by manually spreading the arms, and
         a pair of spaced walls spanning between and interconnecting the spaced arms, each
wall having a tapered outer surface that tapers toward the inner edge of the spaced wall.
13. The fluid dispensing apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the housing has an exposed
compressible surface for delivering the fluid disposed within the housing to the applicator
assembly by manually squeezing the housing.
14. The fluid dispensing apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein the pump is a resilient
tubular element.
15. A fluid transfer assembly for use with an apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid
dispensing apparatus including a source of fluid and a reciprocating applicator assembly for
dispensing the fluid on skin of a user, the fluid transfer assembly comprising:
         a housing having an inner surface defining an interior cavity for accommodating the
fluid, an end of the housing adapted to be in fluid communication with the source of fluid and
having at least one opening for receiving the fluid; and
         a piston member adapted to be in fluid communication with the applicator assembly,
the piston member adapted to be operatively connected to the applicator assembly and
reciprocably disposed in the housing for movement in a first direction toward the end of the
housing and in a second opposite direction, the piston member including
                                                 31

        a hollow piston rod closed at an inner end and open at an outer end, the piston rod
having a port intermediate the length of the piston rod opening into the interior of the piston
rod, and
        a piston head mounted on the piston rod such that the port is between the piston head
and the inner end of the piston rod, the piston head sealing against the inner surface of the
housing and defining a variable volume chamber between the piston head and the end of the
housing,
        wherein each movement of the piston member in the first direction reduces the
volume of the variable volume chamber for generating positive pressure in the chamber and
forcing fluid through the port in the piston member and to the applicator assembly, and each
movement of the piston member in the second direction increases the volume of the variable
volume chamber for generating negative pressure within the chamber for drawing fluid
through the at least one opening in the end of the housing.
16. A fluid transfer assembly for use with an apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid
dispensing apparatus including a source of fluid and a reciprocating applicator assembly for
dispensing the fluid on skin of a user, the fluid transfer assembly comprising:
        a housing defining an interior cavity for accommodating the fluid, an end of the
housing adapted to be in fluid communication with the source of fluid and having at least one
opening for receiving the fluid;
        a piston member defining a through passage and in fluid communication with the
applicator assembly, the piston member adapted to be operatively connected to the applicator
assembly and reciprocably disposed in the housing for movement in a first direction toward
the end of the housing and in a second opposite direction, the piston member and the
housing defining a variable volume chamber between the piston member and the end of the
housing; and
        a valve disposed in a fluid flow path from the fluid source through the at least one
opening to the variable volume chamber, wherein the valve opens only when the piston
member moves in the second direction for allowing fluid flow from the fluid source to the
chamber,
                                                 32

        wherein each movement of the piston member in the first direction reduces the
volume of the variable volume chamber for generating positive pressure in the chamber and
forcing fluid through the through passage in the piston member and to the applicator
assembly, and each movement of the piston member in the second direction increases the
volume of the variable volume chamber for generating negative pressure within the chamber
for drawing fluid via the flow path through the at least one opening in the end of the housing.
17. A fluid transfer assembly for use with an apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid
dispensing apparatus including a source of fluid and a reciprocating applicator assembly for
dispensing the fluid on skin of a user, the fluid transfer assembly comprising:
        a housing defining an interior cavity for accommodating the fluid, an end of the
housing adapted to be in fluid communication with the source of fluid and having at least one
opening for receiving the fluid;
        a piston member defining a through passage and in fluid communication with the
applicator assembly, the piston member adapted to be operatively connected to the applicator
assembly and reciprocably disposed in the housing for movement in a first direction toward
the end of the housing and in a second opposite direction, the piston member and the
housing defining a variable volume chamber between piston member and the end of the
housing; and
        a valve disposed in a fluid flow path through the through passage in the piston
member to the applicator assembly, wherein the valve opens only when the piston member
moves in the first direction,
        wherein each movement of the piston member in the first direction reduces the
volume of the variable volume chamber for generating positive pressure in the chamber and
forcing fluid through the through passage in the piston member and via the flow path to the
applicator assembly, and each movement of the piston member in the second direction
increases the volume of the variable volume chamber for generating negative pressure within
the chamber for drawing fluid through the at least one opening in the end of the housing.
18. The fluid transfer assembly as recited in claim 17, wherein the valve comprises a duckbill
valve for permitting fluid flow through the valve only in response to pressurizing of fluid
upstream of the valve such as by moving the piston member in the first direction.
                                                 33

19. A fluid applicator assembly for use with an apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid
dispensing apparatus including a source of fluid and a fluid transfer assembly in fluid
communication with the fluid source for delivering fluid to the fluid applicator assembly, the
fluid applicator assembly comprising:
        a tray member adapted to be in fluid communication with the fluid transfer assembly,
the tray member comprising
         a pair of spaced walls, each wall tapered to an inner edge surface for defining a
recess for temporarily storing the fluid supplied from the fluid transfer assembly, each one of
the pair of walls having a tapered outer surface that tapers toward the inner edge of the wall,
and
        means for mounting the roller, the roller mounting means including a pair of resilient
spaced arms, each one of the arms spanning between and interconnecting the spaced walls;
and
        a roller assembly, including a roller rotatably mounted to the spaced arms for
contacting skin of a user for applying the fluid onto the skin, wherein the roller may be
attached to the tray member or removed from the tray member by manually spreading the
arms.
20. The fluid applicator assembly as recited in claim 19, wherein the roller is made of an
elastic material.
21. The fluid applicator assembly as recited in claim 19 or 20, wherein the tray member has at
least one elongated aperture in fluid communication with the fluid transfer assembly, the
aperture extending along the longitudinal axis of the tray member for communicating fluid to
the roller.
22. A method for dispensing a fluid, comprising the steps of:
        providing a fluid dispensing apparatus, including
        a housing defining an open interior;
                                                34

         a resilient liner adapted to hold the fluid, the liner configured to be at least partially
disposed in the interior of the housing;
         an applicator assembly for dispensing the fluid on the user's skin, the applicator
assembly mounted on the housing, the applicator assembly including
         an actuator movable relative to the housing in a first direction and a second direction,
and
         a fluid delivery element which is held in contact against skin of a user for applying the
fluid onto the skin, the fluid delivery element supported on the actuator to be movable
together with the actuator by varying contact pressure with the skin; and
         a pump assembly at least partially disposed in the housing, the pump assembly
comprising
         a   pump chamber        having  an   inner surface     defining  an  interior cavity for
accommodating fluid, an end of the pump chamber configured to be in fluid communication
with the liner and having at least one opening for receiving the fluid, and
         a piston member in fluid communication with the applicator assembly, the piston
member operatively connected to the actuator of the applicator assembly and reciprocably
disposed in the pump chamber for movement in a first direction toward the end of the housing
and in a second opposite direction, the piston member including
         a hollow piston rod closed at an inner end and open at an outer end, the piston rod
having a port intermediate the length of the piston rod opening into the interior of the piston
rod, and
         a piston head mounted on the piston rod such that the port is between the piston head
and the inner end of the piston rod, the piston head sealing against the inner surface of the
pump chamber and defining a variable volume chamber between the piston head and the
end of the pump chamber,
         wherein each movement of the actuator in the first direction reduces the volume of the
variable volume chamber for generating positive pressure in the pump chamber and forcing
fluid through the port in the piston member and to the applicator assembly for dispensing the
                                                 35

fluid, and each movement of the piston member in the second direction increases the volume
of the variable volume chamber and generates continuous negative pressure within the pump
chamber for drawing fluid through the at least one opening in the end of the pump chamber
and collapsing the liner;
         contacting the skin of a user with the fluid delivery element;
         pressing the fluid delivery element against the skin of the user for moving the actuator
in the first direction; and
         releasing pressure of the fluid delivery element against the skin of the user for
allowing the actuator to move in the second direction.
23. A fluid applicator assembly for use with an apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid
dispensing apparatus including a source of fluid and a fluid transfer assembly in fluid
communication with fluid source for delivering fluid to the fluid applicator assembly, the fluid
applicator assembly comprising:
         a tray member in fluid communication with the fluid transfer assembly, the tray
member comprising a pair of spaced walls, each wall tapered to an outer edge surface for
defining a recess for temporarily storing the fluid supplied from fluid transfer assembly; and
         a roller assembly, including a roller rotatably mounted to the tray member for
contacting skin of a user for applying the fluid onto the skin.
24. The fluid applicator assembly as recited in claim 23, wherein the roller is made of an
elastic material.
25. The fluid applicator assembly as recited in claim 23 or 24, wherein the tray member
comprises means for mounting the roller, the roller mounting means comprising:
         a pair of resilient spaced arms formed integrally of said tray member, whereby the
roller may be assembled or disassembled by manually spreading the arms, and
         the pair of spaced walls spanning between and interconnecting the spaced arms.
                                                  36

26. The fluid applicator assembly as recited in any one of claims 23 to 25, wherein the tray
member has at least one elongated aperture in fluid communication with the fluid transfer
assembly, the aperture extending along the longitudinal axis of the tray member for
communicating fluid to the roller.
27. A fluid applicator assembly for use with an apparatus for dispensing a fluid, the fluid
dispensing apparatus including a source of fluid in fluid communication with the fluid
applicator assembly, the fluid applicator assembly comprising:
        a tray member adapted to be in fluid communication with the fluid source, the tray
member comprising a pair of spaced walls, each wall tapered to an inner edge surface for
defining a recess for temporarily storing the fluid supplied from the fluid source, each one of
the pair of walls having a tapered outer surface that tapers toward the inner edge of the wall,
and means for mounting the roller, the roller mounting means including a pair of resilient
spaced arms, each one of the arms spanning between and interconnecting the spaced walls;
and a roller assembly, including a roller rotatably mounted to the spaced arms for contacting
skin of a user for applying the fluid onto the skin, wherein the roller may be attached to the
tray member or removed from the tray member by manually spreading the arms.
28. The fluid applicator assembly as recited in claim 27, wherein the roller is made of an
elastic material.
29. The fluid applicator assembly as recited in claim 27 or 28, wherein the tray member has
at least one elongated aperture in fluid communication with the fluid transfer assembly, the
aperture extending along the longitudinal axis of the tray member for communicating fluid to
the roller.
                                               37

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                      7/13
<removed-apn>
              130
              132
                                /so
              128
                                122
              114
                116             7C
              104\>
                64
               52\
                      FIG. 13

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                           13/   13
                                            110
<removed-apn>
                                                  152
                                                    132
                                                        x44
                                                          130
                                                        /'128
                                                           114
                                                           104
                                                           .)
                                                            122
                                                                72
              60
                                                                s8
              52
                     ill
                           182_J   lt   ,
                   FIG. T9

