                                           Abstract
   A gaming machine is disclosed that comprises a display, data storage, a user interface
   arranged to receive user input, and a game controller in communication with the data
 5 storage. The game controller is operable to implement a base game on the display
   and determine a base game outcome, wherein the base game outcome is randomly
   selected and determine whether to provide a base game award based on the base
   game outcome, the base game award associated with a feature game. The game
   controller is also operable to implement a feature game on the display and determine a
10 feature game outcome, wherein the feature game outcome is at least partly dependent
   on attributes of an avatar, and determine whether to provide a feature game award
   based on the outcome of the feature game.
                                                                9905890_1 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                 -1
                      Gaming apparatus with persistent game attributes
   Field of the invention
   The present invention relates generally to gaming apparatus and methods of gaming.
 5 Background of the Invention
   With the increase of gambling at gaming venues has come increased competition
   between gaming venues to obtain a larger share of the total gambling spend. Gaming
   venue operators have therefore continuously looked for new variations and types of
   games in order to attract both new and return customers to their venues.
10 In response to this need, suppliers of gaming devices and systems have attempted to
   provide the sought-after variety, while still developing games that comply with the
   relevant regulations in the jurisdiction of the gaming venue operator. Suppliers of
   gaming devices therefore are faced with restrictions on the types of games and gaming
   apparatus that are allowable, both in terms of the prevailing regulations and in terms of
15 providing a return on investment to the gaming venue operators.
   Summary of the invention
   According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a gaming machine
   comprising:
           a display;
20         data storage;
           a user interface arranged to receive user input; and
           a game controller in communication with the data storage and operable to:
                    implement a base game on the display and determine a base game
           outcome, wherein the base game outcome is randomly selected;
25                  determine whether to provide a base game award based on the base
           game outcome, the base game award associated with a feature game;
                    implement a feature game on the display and determine a feature game
           outcome, wherein the feature game outcome is at least partly dependent on
           attributes of an avatar; and
30                  determine whether to provide a feature game award based on the
           outcome of the feature game.
                                                                   99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                 -2
   According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a method of gaming
   comprising:
           implementing a base game on a display;
           determining a base game outcome, wherein the base game outcome is
 5 randomly selected:
           determining whether to provide a base game award based on the base game
   outcome, the base game award associated with a feature game;
           implementing a feature game on the display;
           determining a feature game outcome, wherein the feature game outcome is at
10 least partly dependent on attributes of an avatar; and
           determining whether to provide a feature game award based on the outcome of
   the feature game.
   Also disclosed is a method of providing a game for use with a gaming machine that is
15 arranged to select symbols, present the selected symbols on a display and award an
   award if a winning outcome occurs, the method comprising:
           receiving identification data for a player;
           displaying representations of game play of the game, wherein a character is
   depicted as one or more graphic objects;
20         amending an attribute of the character in response to an attribute trigger
   occurring during game play, the attribute that is amended being randomly selected for
   the player from an attribute set comprising two or more selectable attributes;
           storing at least one amended attribute of the character in association with the
   player identification data for retrieval in a subsequent game session by the player; and
25         in response to a bonus trigger occurring during play of the game, allowing the
   player to select one of a plurality of bonus games each of which is associated with at
   least one but not all character attributes, such that a probability of being awarded a
   said award in the selected bonus game is dependent, at least in part, on the existence
   of a stored amended attribute associated with the selected bonus game.
30
   The amended attribute may change at least one visual aspect of the character.
   Preferably the player places a wager to play the game and said amending step
   amends at least one attribute that affects an average return to player of the game.
   The at least one character may be an avatar associated with the player and in one
35 embodiment the method comprises providing a game scenario for the avatar.
                                                                    99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                  -3
   Said amending step may comprise amending at least one attribute that determines a
   skill of the avatar within the game scenario.
   The skill of the avatar may affect an average return to player of the game.
   In one arrangement the method comprises setting game parameters defining a
 5 likelihood of the predefined game outcome occurring, the game parameters depending
   on at least one of the attributes of the character.
   In one arrangement the game is played by a single player. Alternatively the game is
   played by a team of players. The method may comprise offering a player a choice of
   playing the game alone or as a member of a team.
10 For a team, the game parameters may be set depending on attributes of avatars
   associated respectively with a plurality of team members.
   For a team, the method may comprise determining a weighting factor for each of the
   players in the team.
   If an award is awarded to the team, the method may comprise dividing the award
15 between the players in the team dependent on the weighting factors.
   In one arrangement said amending step comprises offering the player a choice of
   attributes to amend.
   Preferably the method comprises retrieving attributes of the at least one character
   associated with the identification data of the player.
20 Also disclosed is a method of providing a game in which at least one random event is
   displayed and an award is awarded if the random event corresponds to a winning
   game outcome, the method comprising:
             receiving identification data for a player;
             retrieving, dependent on the received identification data, at least one attribute
25 of a character depicted as one or more graphic objects during game play; and
             displaying representations of game play of the game, the representations
   comprising depiction of the character dependent on the at least one retrieved attribute.
   Also disclosed is a gaming machine that provides a game in which a plurality of
30 symbols are selected and presented on a display and an award is awarded if a winning
                                                                    99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                -4
   outcome occurs, the gaming machine comprising an electronic processing system that
   is arranged to maintain an avatar across a plurality of discrete player sessions of the
   game.
   Preferably, the electronic processing system is further arranged to allow a player to
 5 define at least one visual aspect of the avatar.
   Also disclosed is a gaming machine that provides a game in which a plurality of
   symbols are selected and presented on a display and, if a winning combination occurs,
   the gaming machine awards an award, the gaming machine comprising:
           a display for displaying representations of game play of the game, wherein at
10 least one character is depicted as one or more graphic objects;
           data storage storing identification data for a player and one or more attributes
   defining the at least one character; and
           a game controller in communication with said display and said data storage,
   said game controller operable to:
15                 receive identification data for a player;
                   cause the display of representations of game play of the game;
                   amend an attribute of the character in response to an attribute trigger
           occurring during game play, the attribute being randomly selected for the player
           from an attribute set comprising two or more selectable attributes;
20                 store at least one amended attribute of the character in association with
           the player identification data for retrieval from said data storage in a
           subsequent game session by the player and
                   in response to a bonus trigger being detected during game play, allow a
           player to select one of a plurality of bonus games to play each of which is
25         associated with at least one but not all character attributes, such that a
           probability of being awarded a award in the selected bonus game is dependent,
           at least in part, on the existence of a stored amended attribute associated with
           the selected bonus game.
30 Also disclosed is a computer program product comprising machine-readable program
   code recorded on a machine-readable medium, for controlling the operation of a data
   processing apparatus on which the program code executes to perform a method of
   providing a game for use with a gaming machine that is arranged to select symbols,
   present the selected symbols on a display and award an award if a winning outcome
35 occurs, the method comprising:
                                                                     99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                 -5
            receiving identification data for a player;
            displaying representations of game play of the game, wherein a character is
   depicted as one or more graphic objects;
            amending an attribute of the character in response to an attribute trigger
 5 occurring during game play, the attribute being randomly selected for the player from
   an attribute set comprising two or more selectable attributes;
            storing at least one amended attribute of the character in association with the
   player identification data for retrieval in a subsequent game session by the player; and
   in response to a bonus trigger occurring during play of the game, allowing the player to
10 select one of a plurality of bonus games each of which is associated with at least one
   but not all character attributes, such that a probability of being awarded a award in the
   selected bonus game is dependent, at least in part, on the existence of a stored
   amended attribute associated with the selected bonus game.
15 Also disclosed is a computer program comprising machine-readable program code for
   controlling the operation of a data processing apparatus on which the program code
   executes to perform a method of providing a game for use with a gaming machine that
   is arranged to select symbols, present the selected symbols on a display and award an
   award if a winning outcome occurs, the method comprising:
20          receiving identification data for a player;
            displaying representations of game play of the game, wherein a character is
   depicted as one or more graphic objects;
            amending an attribute of the character in response to an attribute trigger
   occurring during game play, the attribute being randomly selected for the player from
25 an attribute set comprising two or more selectable attributes;
            storing at least one amended attribute of the character in association with the
   player identification data for retrieval in a subsequent game session by the player; and
   in response to a bonus trigger being detected during game play, allow a player to
   select one of a plurality of bonus games to play each of which is associated with at
30 least one but not all character attributes, such that a probability of being awarded a
   award in the selected bonus game is dependent, at least in part, on the existence of a
   stored amended attribute associated with the selected bonus game.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
35
   Embodiments of the invention are described below with reference to the Figures, in
   which:
                                                                     99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                 -6
             Figure 1 shows a view of a gaming machine suitable for implementing the
    present invention;
             Figure 2 shows a schematic block diagram of gaming apparatus suitable for
  5 implementing the present invention;
             Figure 3 shows a schematic block diagram of components of the memory of the
    gaming apparatus represented in Figure 2;
10           Figure 4 shows schematically a network gaming system suitable for
    implementing the present invention;
             Figure 5 shows a schematic representation of a data structure storing
    identification data for a player and associated information defining an avatar
15  representing the player in a game for display on the gaming arrangements of Figures
    1, 2 or 4;
             Figure 6 shows schematically a screenshot of a winning combination in a
    game;
20
             Figure 7 shows a flow diagram of a method of providing a game in which a
    player may win improvements in avatar characteristics and play a game in which
    avatar characteristics affect a likelihood of winning an award in the game;
25           Figure 8 shows a flow diagram of a method of providing a game in which a
    team of players is represented by avatars; and
             Figure 9 shows a flow diagram of a method of providing a game session in
    which an animated character appears, the character having attributes, associated with
30  a game player, that persist between game sessions.
    Detailed Description
    Operating environment
                                                                    99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                -7
    In Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings, one example of a gaming machine suitable
    for implementing the present invention is generally referenced by arrow 10.
    The gaming machine 10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which is
  5 displayed representations of a game 16 that can be played by a player. A mid-trim 20
    of the gaming machine 10 houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to play
    the game 16. The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input mechanism 24 including a
    coin input chute 24A and a bill collector 24B. A top box 26 may carry artwork 28,
    including for example, pay tables and details of bonus awards and other information or
10  images relating to the game. Further artwork and/or information may be provided on
    the front panel 29 of the console 12. A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the console 12
    for cash payouts from the gaming machine 10.
    The display 14 shown in Figure 1 is in the form of a video display unit, for example a
15  cathode ray tube screen device. Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid crystal
    display, plasma screen, any other suitable video display unit, or the visible portion of
    an electromechanical device. The top box 26 may also include a display, for example a
    video display unit, which may be of the same type as the display 14, or a different type
    of display.
20
    Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a gaming apparatus, generally referenced by arrow
    100, suitable for implementing the present invention. The gaming apparatus 100 may,
    for example, operate as a standalone gaming machine of the type shown in Figure 1.
    However, the gaming apparatus 100 may alternatively operate as a networked gaming
25  machine, communicating with other network devices, such as one or more servers or
    other gaming machines. The gaming apparatus 100 may also have distributed
    hardware and software components that communicate with each other directly or
    through a network. Accordingly, different reference numerals have been used in Figure
    2 and Figure 1 for components that may be equivalent.
30
    The gaming apparatus 100 includes a game controller 101, which in the illustrated
    example includes a microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device or
    other computational device 102. Instructions and data to control operation of the
    computational device 102 are stored in a memory 103, which is in data communication
35  with the computational device 102. Typically, the gaming apparatus 100 includes both
                                                                   99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                               -8
   volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each type of memory, with such
   memories being collectively represented by the memory 103. The instructions to cause
   the game controller 101 to implement the present invention will be stored in the
   memory 103.
 5
   The gaming apparatus may include meters 104 for the purposes of regulatory
   compliance and may also include an input/output (1/O) interface 105 for communicating
   with the peripheral devices of the gaming apparatus 100. The input/output interface
   105 and/or the peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their own memory for
10 instructions and data.
   In the example shown in Figure 2, the peripheral devices that communicate with the
   controller are one or more displays 106, user interfaces 107, a card and/or ticket
   reader 108, a printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110 and a coin
15 output mechanism 111. One or more of the displays 106 may include a touch screen
   106A, forming part of the user interface 107. Additional devices may be included as
   part of the gaming apparatus 100. Devices may be omitted as required for the specific
   implementation.
20 In addition, the gaming apparatus 100 may include a communications interface, for
   example a network card 112. The network card, may for example, send status
   information, accounting information or other information to a central controller, server
   or database and receive data or commands from the central controller, server or
   database. The game controller 101 may also include a random number generator
25 (RNG) 113, which generates a series of random numbers that determine the outcome
   of a series of random game events played as part of a game on the gaming apparatus
   100. The random number generator may be implemented as software or as a
   hardware module. As explained in more detail in relation to Figure 4, the computational
   device 102 may include two or more controllers or processors, which may be local or
30 remote from each other and the displays 106.
   Figure 3 shows an exemplary block diagram of the main components of the memory
   103. The RAM 103A typically temporarily holds program files for execution by the
   computational controller 102 and related data. The EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM
35 device and/or may contain some system or game related code. The mass storage
                                                                  99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                               -9
    device 103C is typically used to store game programs, the integrity of which may be
    verified and/or authenticated by the computational controller 102 using protected code
    from the EPROM 103B or elsewhere.
  5 Figure 4 shows a gaming system 200. The gaming system 200 includes a network
    201, which for example may be an Ethernet network. Gaming devices 202, shown
    arranged in three banks 203 of two gaming devices 202 in Figure 4, are connected to
    the network 201. The gaming devices 202 may be gaming machines 10 as shown in
    Figure 1 or form part or all of another gaming apparatus 100. Single gaming devices
10  202 and banks 203 containing three or more gaming devices 202 may also be
    connected to the network 201.
    One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the network 201. The displays
    204 may, for example, be associated with a bank 203 of gaming devices. The displays
15  204 may be used to display representations associated with game play on the gaming
    devices 202, and/or used to display other representations, for example promotional or
    informational material.
    Servers may also be connected to the network 201. For example, a game server 205
20  may generate game outcomes for games played on the gaming devices 202. A
    database management server 206 may manage the storage of game programs and
    associated data for downloading or access by the gaming devices 202 in a database
    206A. A jackpot server 207 may control one or more jackpots associated with the
    gaming devices 202.
25
    Further servers may be provided to assist in the administration of the gaming system
    200, including for example a gaming floor management server 208, and a licensing
    server 209 to monitor the use of licenses to particular games. An administrator terminal
    210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the network 201 and the devices
30  connected to the network 201.
    The gaming system 200 may communicate through a firewall 211 with other gaming
    systems or other local networks, for example a corporate network, and/or a wide area
    network such as the Internet.
35
                                                                  99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                 -10
   Avatars
    In one or more games that may be played on the gaming machine 10, gaming
   apparatus 100 or gaming system 200, a player is represented within a game scenario
 5  by an avatar. The avatar is typically an animated character depicted as one or more
   graphic objects, for example on displays 106. The player may control actions of his or
    her avatar within the game scenario, for example using the user interface 107.
    It will be appreciated that a wide range of user interfaces may be used. For example,
10 the player may press a physical button in the bank of buttons 22 or select a button on a
   touch screen 106A to cause the avatar to perform an action within the game scenario.
   The player may also use a joystick (not illustrated). In a further alternative, the gaming
   apparatus may include a camera that records movements of the player. Software
    running on the game controller 101 may detect the player's movements and cause the
15 avatar depicted on displays 106 to move in a similar manner.
    Different game scenarios may be provided in which the avatar appears. In one
   example the avatar is a pirate who enters a cave in which treasure is buried. The pirate
    may be caused to dig, possibly unearthing treasure which results in an award being
20  made to the player. A game scenario may involve the display of graphics objects that
    provide an environment with which the avatar interacts. Alternatively a game scenario
    may be the display of the avatar alone, preferably performing an action or series of
   actions.
25 The avatar has a range of associated attributes that determine the avatar's appearance
   and skill at various tasks within game scenarios. For example, the pirate may have a
   'strength' attribute that affects the pirate's ability to dig. The pirate may carry a supply
   of food that diminishes as digging proceeds. Thus, increasing the pirate's food supply
    may increase the duration of the digging, thereby increasing the chances of unearthing
30 treasure.
    Different attributes may enhance or diminish an avatar's skill at different tasks. For
   example, a game scenario may present tasks for an avatar where 'speed' is an
   advantage. Other tasks, for example weight-lifting, may depend on a 'strength'
35 attribute. In such a weightlifting game, the heavier the weight lifted by the avatar, the
                                                                        99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                              - 11
   more bonus credits won by the player. Strength may be a liability in tasks that require
   speed. A player may not know in advance what game scenario will be presented.
   The use of avatars may increase a player's interest in a game or series of games. The
 5 player may feel a greater involvement in a game where he or she may associate with
   an avatar and have some input into the events represented on the displays 106. A
   diversity of graphic stimuli associated with different game scenarios may help sustain
   the player's interest.
10 Described herein are arrangements in which at least some avatar characteristics are
   persistent. Thus, a player may make several visits to a gaming machine 10, gaming
   apparatus 100 or gaming system 200 and log on to retrieve his or her avatar. Such
   arrangements may provide an incentive for the player to return to a particular gaming
   venue, or chain of gaming venues, in order to resume an association with a familiar
15 avatar.
   Animated characters delivering player information
   In one or more games that may be played on the gaming machine 10, gaming
20 apparatus 100 or gaming system 200, an animated character may be displayed during
   a gaming session that supplies information visually and/or audibly. The use of such an
   animated character is described, for example, in Australian patent 766916 "Player
   information delivery", the contents of which are incorporated herein by cross-reference.
25 The animated character may have four modes of operation:
   1)      an entertainment mode in which, for example, a character performs comical
   actions to entertain the game player;
   2)      an information mode for conveying messages to the player;
30 3)      a help mode in which the animated character offers advice and assistance to
   the player; and
   4)      a payment mode in which the animated character acts to award a prize either
   independently of any game being played in the gaming session, or as a bonus in the
   current game or a subsequent game. The character may initiate a series of special
35 bonus games.
                                                                  99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                 - 12
    The animated character is displayed as one or more graphic objects on displays 106.
    The character may be any graphic symbol, icon or figure. The character may, for
    example, be a letter of the alphabet, or a cartoon figure of a coin or moneybag.
  5
    Described herein are methods in which the character may acquire additional or altered
    characteristics during the course of a gaming session by a game player. Attributes
    descriptive of the character are updated, and may affect the visual appearance or
    behaviour of the character. The updated attributes may affect the payment features
10  associated with the character, for example to increase the likelihood of the player being
    awarded a prize while the character is displayed. The updated attributes may affect the
    expected return to player.
    In the described arrangements, at least some of the acquired character attributes are
15  persistent between gaming sessions. The persistent attributes are stored, associated
    with player identification data, and retrieved if the player logs on for a subsequent
    gaming session.
    Data storage to provide persistence
20
    In order to provide persistent characteristics for an avatar or other animated character,
    information is stored in data storage identifying the player and an associated avatar or
    character, together with any persistent attributes of the avatar or character.
25  The information may be stored on a single gaming device such as gaming machine 10
    or gaming apparatus 100, for example in memory 103. In such an arrangement the
    player may only resume use of the avatar or character with acquired persistent
    attributes if the player returns to the particular machine on which the persistent
    information is stored.
30
    Alternatively, the information identifying the player and the associated persistent
    information may be stored remotely from the gaming device used by the player and
    retrieved as required, for example via the network interface 112. In the gaming system
    200 the information may be stored on the database 206A under the control of database
35  management server 206. The stored information may be communicated via the
                                                                      99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                               -13
   network 201 to a gaming device 202 used by the player. In this way the player may
   retrieve his or her avatar with persistent attributes from any of the gaming devices 202
   communicating via network 201. The network may be a wide area network providing
   access to the avatar from more than one gaming venue. Furthermore, the information
 5 identifying the player and any persistent features of the avatar or character may be
   stored on a smart card or other portable memory device.
   The player may log on to a gaming device 202 by providing an input that identifies the
   player, preferably uniquely. The input may be a previously-established password or
10 user name, or data stored on a machine-readable card inserted into the card reader
   108. Biometric information or other identifying inputs may also be used. Based on the
   input, information related to the player is retrieved from local memory 103 or remote
   database 206A. The retrieved information may include characteristics of the player's
   associated avatar or animated character, including any persistent attributes the avatar
15 or character has accumulated in previous gaming sessions by the player.
   The player's identifying input is set up in an initial session, in which the basic
   characteristics of the avatar may also be established. For example, the player may
   choose a character and select aspects of the character's appearance. Alternatively, a
20 default avatar or a randomly-selected avatar may be assigned to the player in the initial
   session.
   Figure 5 is a schematic representation of a data structure 500 that may be used to
   store the player and avatar information in data storage such as memory 103 or
25 database 206A. The data structure 500 may also be stored in a distributed fashion in
   which some elements are stored locally, for example in memory 103, and other
   elements are stored remotely, for example in database 206A.
   The data structure 500 includes data 502 identifying the player, for example the
30 player's actual name or a user name. This enables the gaming device to interact with
   the player in a personalised way.
   The data structure 500 also includes login information 504 that defines how the player
   logs in. Information 504 may, for example, be a password or the player's user name.
35 Preferably the login information 504 uniquely identifies the player. To log on, the player
                                                                      99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                               - 14
   may provide the login information by typing on the user interface. Alternatively, the
   gaming apparatus may accept a physical indicator of the player's identity, such as a
   smart card, driver's licence or senior's card. In this case the apparatus scans the
   physical indicator to retrieve the required information that identifies the player.
 5
   Further personal information 506 about the player may also be stored in data structure
   506. For example, the player's postal address or email address may be stored,
   enabling promotional material to be sent to the player.
10 As described in more detail below, the avatar-based games may be played by an
   individual player or by teams of players. The data structure 500 may include data 508
   that indicates the team status of the player. Data 508 may include a flag that specifies
   whether the player is currently part of a team or playing singly. If the player is part of a
   team, the data 508 includes identifiers of the other team members. Data 508 may also
15 indicate whether the player has previously played as part of a team.
   The data structure 500 includes data 510 that identify the persistent characteristics of
   the avatar associated with the player. Such data 510 determines the basic appearance
   of the avatar, enabling the avatar to be rendered to displays 106 during a gaming
20 session. Clearly, not all graphic information related to the avatar need be stored in a
   single data structure. For example, pointers and links to other data structures may be
   used to reference information required for the avatar to be rendered. The data
   structure 500 may also include data fields (not shown) that describe persistent
   characteristics of an animated character that may appear on screen during a gaming
25 session by the player.
   During play, the player may win awards that change attributes of the avatar. For
   example, the avatar may become stronger or faster. Depending on particular game
   arrangements, such changes to the avatar attributes may be temporary or persistent.
30 For example, an increase in strength may be persistent such that the next time the
   player logs on the avatar has retained its strength attribute. In contrast, the avatar's
   food supply may be a temporary attribute that dwindles until no food remains. The data
   structure 500 may store both persistent parameters 510 and temporary parameters
   512.
35
                                                                    99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                               -15
   Similarly, the animated character used for player information delivery may acquire
   enhanced features during a gaming session. Some or all of the attributes describing
   the enhanced features may be stored in data structure 500 for retrieval in subsequent
   gaming sessions by the player. For example, the character may relate to a pick-a
 5 partner feature. The animated character may assist in selecting a partner having a
   rated compatibility. The animated character may be enhanced by wearing perfume,
   making the character more attractive within the feature and thus acting to effectively
   increase the return-to-player (RTP) of the player.
10 A player may have more than one associated avatar. In this case the data structure
   500 may include data about a plurality of avatars for a particular player. When the
   player logs on, he or she would choose one of the avatars for use in a particular
   gaming session.
15 Description of method for single player
   Figure 7 shows a flow diagram of a method 700 in which a single player plays a game
   involving an avatar with persistent attributes. It is assumed that the player has set up
   basic information in an earlier session and that data related to the player is stored in a
20 data structure 500.
   In step 702 the player logs on by entering login information into a gaming device such
   as gaming machine 10, gaming apparatus 100 or a gaming device 202. In step 704
   software, running for example on computational device 102, retrieves data associated
25 with the player from data structure 500. The data may be retrieved from a remote
   database 206A and/or a local memory 103. The information retrieved defines the
   persistent attributes of the avatar associated with the player.
   In step 706 the player commences a base game on the gaming machine. Typically the
30 player enters a wager, for example using card reader 108 or coin acceptor 110 and
   initiates a game that is displayed on one or more of the displays 106. In one
   arrangement the base game is a spinning reel game in which a plurality of spinning
   reels are spun and come to rest in a randomly-selected state to display an array of
   symbols. If a winning combination of symbols occurs, an award may be made.
                                                                   99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                - 16
   Random number generator 113 may be used to determine the final position of each of
   the reels.
   Figure 6 shows a screen shot 600 of an example of a possible winning combination in
 5 a spinning reel game. There are five spinning reels 608 - 616 each having three
   symbols displayed when the reels are at rest. Reel 608 has come to rest displaying
   symbols represented as A, B and C. In practice the symbols may be drawings of
   characters or objects. Reel 610 shows symbol D, a scatter symbol and symbol E. Reel
   612 shows symbol A, a scatter symbol and symbol B. Reel 614 shows a scatter
10 symbol and symbols C and D. Reel 616 shows symbol E, a scatter symbol and symbol
   A. Scatter symbols may contribute to winning combinations regardless of the row on
   which they appear. The occurrence of four scatter symbols on the screen shot 600 is
   an example of a winning combination. The screen shot 600 also shows at 602 that the
   player has a credit of 0 units and, at 604, has bet 25 units. At 606 the display shows a
15 win meter that indicates that the player has won 500 credits.
   The base game is not limited to spinning reel games. Other games, for example card
   games or dice games, may also be presented on the gaming device 202.
20 After each spin of the spinning reels 608 - 616, software running on the game
   controller 102 checks, in step 708, whether a triggering combination of symbols has
   occurred that entitles the player to select an improvement to an avatar attribute. The
   specified combination may be, for example, a configuration like that shown in screen
   shot 600, showing 4 scatter symbols. In the example the specified combination results
25 in an award of credits to a win meter and also an ability to select an improvement to an
   avatar. However, the award could be solely the improvement to an avatar. Other
   triggering events may also trigger the ability to amend the avatar. Such triggering
   events could, for example, depend on turnover or a random trigger.
30 If the triggering combination has occurred (the Yes option of step 708) then in step 710
   the display 106 is altered to show one or more options relating to improved attributes
   for the player's avatar. For example, the player may be offered the choice of improving
   the avatar's 'strength' attribute or the avatar's 'speed' attribute. The player may select
   an option using the user interface 107, for example using the touch screen 106A.
                                                                      99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                               -17
   Amendments to the avatar may involve adding a new attribute, removing an attribute or
   changing one or more parameters of an attribute.
   When the player has made a choice, the avatar information 510 and/or 512 is updated
 5 in the data structure 500. Process flow then returns to step 706 and the player
   continues to play the base game. Alternatively, the choice of the improvement may be
   made for the player, for example through a random selection from the available
   improvements.
10 If the current reel configuration does not entitle the player to improve the avatar
   characteristics (the No option of step 708), then in step 714 the controlling software
   checks whether the reel configuration entitles the player to play a feature game
   involving the avatar. The feature game is won if a specified configuration of symbols is
   displayed. It will be understood that there are many events that may be predefined as
15 triggering the avatar feature game. The triggering event may be a predefined
   combination of symbols on the spinning reels. The triggering event may be the
   occurrence of a randomly selected time within a time period, or may be associated with
   a specified turnover, either of a single gaming device or a plurality of gaming devices.
   The triggering event may also be the collection of a certain number of tokens, the
20 collection of a token occurring when a particular event occurs in the game, for example
   the spinning up of a particular combination. The avatar feature may also be
   automatically won when the improvement feature is won, so that play of the avatar
   feature or at least the option to play the avatar feature automatically follows step 712.
25 If the avatar feature game has not been triggered (the No option of step 714) then
   process flow returns to step 706 and the player resumes the base game. If the avatar
   feature has been won, then in step 716 the player may be presented with a range of
   options concerning the feature game to be played. This gives the player the
   opportunity to select an option that best matches the skills of the associated avatar.
30 The gaming apparatus may make a recommendation as to which option to choose.
   Alternatively, the feature game may be automatically selected in step 716 without
   giving the player the chance to choose a feature game. In other implementations there
   may only be a single feature game rather than a choice between different avatar
35 feature games.
                                                                     99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                -18
   Next, in step 718, controlling software running for example on computational device
   102 checks whether the player's avatar is skilled at the selected game. For example, if
   the avatar has a high 'strength' attribute, the avatar may be skilled in a game having a
 5 weightlifting scenario.
   If the avatar is skilled at the selected game, then in step 722 the controlling software
   sets game parameters to increase the player's chances of winning in the avatar feature
   game. For example, a strong pirate may dig up more treasure, or a strong weightlifter
10 may lift heavier weights to reveal a larger prize.
   If the avatar lacks skills for the selected game, then in step 720 the controlling software
   sets the game parameters such that the player has a lower chance of winning in the
   avatar feature game. Here the meaning of 'lower chance' is relative to the parameters
15 set in step 722. Step 720 may reduce one or more game parameters, or step 720 may
   leave the game parameters at their current values.
   Once the game parameters have been set in step 720 or 722, the software running on
   computational device 102 plays the avatar game in step 724, and displays the game
20 on displays 106. The displayed game includes representations of the player's avatar.
   The game is played in accordance with the game scenario for the selected game. The
   player's chance of winning or the size of the win depends at least to some extent on
   the game parameters set in steps 720 or 722.
25 If required, the avatar data is updated in step 726. For example, if the avatar relies on
   a supply of food, this may diminish in the course of a game.
   When the avatar game is complete, process flow may return to the base game in step
   728.
30
   In one embodiment, the avatar is a character that provides the player with the chance
   to win free games. The attributes of the character may determine the average number
   of free games that may be won. In turn, the average number of free games may
   change the expected return-to-player (RTP) of the game. For example an avatar
35 having one set of attributes may win on average ten free games, resulting in an overall
                                                                    99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                              -19
   RTP of about 87% and an avatar having another set of attributes may win on average
   twenty free games, which may result in an overall RTP of about 89%. In the course of
   the game the player may win the chance to improve the character attributes, thereby
   affecting the RTP of the game.
 5
   In the example outlined in Fig. 7 the avatar amendment is triggered in a base game
   and the avatar game is a feature game triggered from the base game. In alternatives,
   avatar improvements may arise from triggering events in an avatar game.
10 Description of method for a team
   The avatar game may also be played by a team of players, as illustrated in the method
   800 of Figure 8.
15 In step 802 each member of the team identifies him or herself to the gaming system
   200, for example by logging on or by inserting a player identification card. Each player
   in the team may log on to a different gaming device 202. Software running on the
   game server 205 may coordinate the activity of the team members.
20 In the login procedure, players may be asked whether or not they will be playing as
   part of a team. The question may be displayed on displays 106. If the player elects to
   play as a team member, input screens are displayed enabling the player to indicate the
   identity of other team members. Alternatively, the player may indicate that he or she
   wishes to play as part of a team and the gaming system 200 may form teams as
25 required from groups of players that have indicated that they wish to play as a team.
   The team members need not log on simultaneously. For example, if a first player is
   logged on to a gaming device 202 and a second player later logs on to another gaming
   device, the respective gaming machines may display messages to the first and second
30 players, alerting them that the other player is logged on. A message may then be
   displayed, asking whether the players wish to continue playing as a team. There may
   be an incentive to functioning as a team, such as a greater chance of winning. For
   example, if there are four players in a team, the game may offer a chance of winning
   that is approximately four times higher than the chance of winning if a single player is
                                                                  99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                              - 20
   playing, the actual chance of winning being dependent on the attributes of the avatars
   of the team members. The award is, however, divided between the team members.
   In step 804 information about team members who have logged on is retrieved from
 5 database 206A by database management server 206. The retrieved data includes the
   persistent attributes of the avatars representing the team members. The retrieved data
   also includes team information for logged on players, for example whether the player
   has previously been part of a team and identifying data of the other team members.
10 In step 806 the avatar feature is started. There are various ways in which the avatar
   feature may be triggered. In one arrangement the avatar feature commences directly
   once the team members are logged on. In this arrangement each player may have to
   pay an entry fee to play the avatar feature. In another arrangement the team members
   each play a base game on their respective gaming devices 202 and the avatar feature
15 is triggered by one or more predefined events in the base games. For example, the
   entire team may enter the avatar feature if a single team member has a specified
   winning combination in the base game. Alternatively every member of a team may
   have to achieve the specified winning combination before the avatar feature is played,
   with the team members that achieve the winning combination first having to wait for
20 other team members to achieve the winning combination. Where the teams are
   predefined, the gaming devices 202 may display which of the team members has
   achieved the winning combination and which team members have still to achieve the
   combination before the team can enter the avatar feature. The required number of
   players for the avatar feature may be less than the entered team members or may be
25 all of the team members.
   Individual team members may be given the opportunity to leave the team and play the
   feature alone if they choose to and this may automatically occur if a player indicates
   that he or she wishes to cash out/quit. Where the teams are dynamically formed, the
30 gaming system may check for other players to achieve the specified winning
   combination and display to the players who have already achieved this combination
   how many other players are required before the avatar feature can be played as a
   team. The gaming system 200 may display how many players are currently at gaming
   devices 202 and which may join the team so that the players that are waiting can imply
35 from this a probable waiting time.
                                                                  99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                               -21
   In a further alternative, the team may only enter the avatar feature once the team has
   accumulated a specified number of tokens in the course of playing the base game.
 5 Tokens awarded to a team member are added to a pool of tokens until the required
   total is reached.
   The player may make the selection as to whether they wish to be in a team at the
   commencement of a player session, following the occurrence of the specified winning
10 event, or both. In addition, where the teams are dynamically formed, either from all
   players in the gaming system 200 (or a particular subset of the gaming system 200) or
   from members out of a larger predefined membership, the player may specify what
   size team they wish to participate in.
15 In the base game the players may have the option of improving the skills of their
   avatar, as described above with reference to steps 708, 710 and 712. In the avatar
   games played by predefined teams, team members may wish to coordinate the skills
   attributed to their respective avatars. For example, if the avatars have a wide range of
   skills it may increase the team's chance of winning in a range of game scenarios. Thus,
20 if a team member wins the chance to improve the skills of his or her avatar, the team
   member may review the current range of skills of the team avatars and opt for a skill
   where the team's avatars are currently weak. The gaming system 200 may give
   suggestions to the players as to which attributes are most likely to increase the return
   of a team and/or which are most likely to increase the return to the player if the player
25 plays alone. Alternatively, the choice may not affect the overall expected return of the
   team or the player, but may instead alter the volatility of the avatar feature. For
   example if all team members chose the same attributes and/or each team member had
   won multiple attributes and selected the same attribute each time, then the award for
   an avatar feature scenario that complements the selected attributes may be very high,
30 but the rewards for others comparatively low. The range of awards likely to be won in
   different scenarios may be reduced if the players selected a range of attributes. The
   gaming system may provide feedback to the players on the effect on the volatility by
   making particular choices.
                                                                    99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                               - 22
   In some game scenarios the avatar skills may be complementary. For example, if the
   team's avatars have a given combination of attributes, the team's overall chances of
   winning may be increased. One example of such a game scenario is a bank robbery in
   which the players' avatars try to break into a bank to win a jackpot or bonus game. The
 5 avatars may be, for example, a cat burglar, explosives expert, gunman or safe cracker.
   The individual avatars may acquire improved skills in the course of a gaming session
   based on turnover or features won. An example of the improved attributes is more
   ammunition for the gunman. The players may wish to play alone, or they may choose
   to work as a team to break into the bank. The jackpot or bonus may be shared
10 amongst team members depending on how each member contributed to successfully
   breaking into the bank.
   In step 808 the controlling software selects an avatar game having an associated
   scenario. The software may select an avatar game at random from a set of avatar
15 games. Alternatively, the team members may be offered a choice of different games. In
   this case the team members have the added excitement of trying to assess which
   game is best suited to the attributes of their avatars.
   In step 810 the controlling software sets the game parameters dependent on the
20 characteristics of the team's avatars. If at least one of the avatars is skilled at the
   selected game, then the game parameters may be set to increase the team's chances
   of winning. The game parameters may be adjusted based on combinations of
   attributes amongst the avatar characteristics.
25 In step 812 the avatar game is played by the controlling software. The software may
   run on a server such as game server 205. Individual modules of the software may also
   run on the individual gaming devices 202, communicating with one another and/or the
   game server 206 via network 201. The avatar game is displayed on the displays of the
   gaming devices 202 used by the team members. The game display includes
30 representations of the avatar or avatars. The team members may have some control
   over the actions of their respective avatars, using user interface 107 to cause the
   avatar to perform specified actions.
   The game includes at least one randomly-generated event that is displayed on
35 displays 106. The occurrence of certain predefined events causes an award to be
                                                                    99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                               - 23
    made. The chance of at least one of such predefined events occurring is dependent on
    the game parameters set in step 810. In step 814 the controlling software checks
    whether one of the predefined events has occurred that causes an award to be won in
    the avatar game. If no award is made, process flow may return to step 812 to resume
  5 play of the avatar game.
    If an award has been won (the Yes option of step 814) then in step 816 the controlling
    software divides the award amongst the team members The award may be split
    evenly amongst the players. Alternatively, the award may be divided using relative
10  weights such that a team member having a higher weighting may receive a greater
    proportion of the award than a team member having a lower weighting. For example, in
    step 810 a return-to-player (RTP) value may be determined for each team member
    dependent on the attributes of the team member's avatar. This RTP value may be used
    as a weight in determining how an award is to be divided between the team members.
15
    After the award has been divided, the avatar game may continue. Alternatively,
    process flow may return to the base game.
    Changing attributes of animated character
20
    Figure 9 illustrates a method 900 wherein the persistent attributes of an animated
    character that appears on the screen during a gaming session may be amended. In the
    step 902 the player logs on, as described above. Then (step 904) the player plays a
    gaming session in which the animated character appears in one or more of the four
25  modes of operation described above.
    During the gaming session, the software running on the gaming apparatus checks
    whether an improvement feature has been triggered. If an improvement feature is
    triggered, then in step 908 the attributes of the animated character may be updated. In
30  some arrangements the visual characteristics of the animated character may be
    customised. In other arrangements the enhanced attributes may affect the player's
    chances of winning an award while the animated character appears on the screen.
    The customisation of the animated character may be offered on a turnover basis. For
35  example, the more the player plays the greater the customisation of the animated
                                                                   99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                               - 24
   character. This may correspond to an increased RTP for the player. The turnover may
   be assessed for a single session or over multiple sessions.
   In step 910 some or all of the enhanced attributes of the animated character may be
 5 saved in data structure 500 associated with the player's identification data. Then, if the
   player logs on for a subsequent gaming session (step 912), the attributes of the
   animated character may be retrieved and used in the subsequent gaming session.
   In alternative implementations the amendments made to a character may involve a
10 reduction of an attribute or a decrease in the benefit afforded by the character.
   While the foregoing description has been provided by way of example of the preferred
   embodiments of the present invention as presently contemplated, which utilise gaming
   apparatus and machines, those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that the
15 present invention also may have application to Internet gaming and/or have application
   to gaming over a telecommunications network, where handsets are used to display
   game outcomes and receive player inputs.
   Where in the foregoing description reference has been made to integers having known
20 equivalents, then those equivalents are hereby incorporated herein as if individually set
   forth.
   Those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that modifications and additions to the
   embodiments of the present invention may be made without departing from the scope
25 of the present invention.
   It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this specification
   extends to all alternative combinations of two or more of the individual features
   mentioned or evident from the text or drawings. All of these different combinations
30 constitute various alternative aspects of the invention.
   It will also be understood that the term "comprises" (or its grammatical variants) as
   used in this specification is equivalent to the term "includes" and should not be taken
   as excluding the presence of other elements or features.
                                                                    99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                - 25
    The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1.       A gaming machine comprising:
             a display;
             data storage;
  5          a user interface arranged to receive user input; and
             a game controller in communication with the data storage and operable to:
                      implement a base game on the display and determine a base game
             outcome, wherein the base game outcome is randomly selected;
                      determine whether to provide a base game award based on the base
10           game outcome, the base game award associated with a feature game;
                      implement a feature game on the display and determine a feature game
             outcome, wherein the feature game outcome is at least partly dependent on
             attributes of an avatar; and
                      determine whether to provide a feature game award based on the
15           outcome of the feature game.
    2.       A gaming machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the base game award is
    associated with an avatar attribute.
20  3.       A gaming machine as claimed in claim 2, wherein the base game award is an
    option to select an avatar attribute to be acquired by the avatar.
    4.       A gaming machine as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the base game
    award associated with an avatar attribute affects an aspect of the feature game.
25
    5.       A gaming machine as claimed in claim 4, wherein a return to player (RTP)
    value of the feature game is dependent on the avatar attribute.
    6.       A gaming machine as claimed in claim 5, wherein the feature game award
30  comprises at least one free game, an average number of free games being won
    dependent on the avatar attribute and the return to player (RTP) value of the feature
    game dependent on the average number of free games being won.
    7.       A gaming machine as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6, wherein the avatar
35  attribute is a temporary attribute.
                                                                   99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                - 26
    8.       A gaming machine as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6, wherein the avatar
    attribute is a permanent attribute.
    9.       A gaming machine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
  5 feature game outcome is at least partly dependent on player input.
    10.      A gaming machine as claimed in claim 9, wherein the game controller is
    operable to facilitate control of the avatar within a feature game by a player.
10  11.      A gaming machine as claimed in claim 9 or claim 10, wherein the game
    controller is operable to enable a player to choose a feature game from a plurality of
    available feature games, the likelihood of a winning outcome in each feature game
    being dependent on skills of the avatar.
15  12.      A gaming machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the base game award is
    associated with a feature of a character in the feature game.
    13.      A gaming machine as claimed in claim 12, wherein the base game award is
    associated with an appearance of a character in the feature game.
20
    14.      A gaming machine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
    game controller is operable to determine whether to provide a game credit award
    based on the base game outcome.
25  15.      A gaming machine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
    base game is a spinning reel game.
    16.      A gaming machine as claimed in claim 15, wherein a base game award is
    awarded based on whether a winning combination of symbols occurs.
30
    17.      A gaming machine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
    avatar attribute determines a skill of the avatar in the feature game.
    18.      A method of gaming comprising:
35           implementing a base game on a display;
             determining a base game outcome, wherein the base game outcome is
    randomly selected;
                                                                     99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                - 27
            determining whether to provide a base game award based on the base game
    outcome, the base game award associated with a feature game;
            implementing a feature game on the display;
            determining a feature game outcome, wherein the feature game outcome is at
  5 least partly dependent on attributes of an avatar; and
            determining whether to provide a feature game award based on the outcome of
    the feature game.
    19.     A method as claimed in claim 18, wherein the base game award is associated
10  with an avatar attribute.
    20.     A gaming machine as claimed in claim 19, wherein the base game award is an
    option to select an avatar attribute to be acquired by the avatar.
15  21.     A method as claimed in claim 19 or claim 20, wherein the base game award
    associated with an avatar attribute affects an aspect of the feature game.
    22.     A method as claimed in claim 21, wherein a return to player (RTP) value of the
    feature game is dependent on the avatar attribute.
20
    23.     A method as claimed in claim 22, wherein the feature game award comprises at
    least one free game, an average number of free games being won dependent on the
    avatar attribute and the return to player (RTP) value of the feature game dependent on
    the average number of free games being won.
25
    24.     A method as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 23, wherein the avatar attribute
    is a temporary attribute.
    25.     A method as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 23, wherein the avatar attribute
30  is a permanent attribute.
    26.     A method as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 25, wherein the feature game
    outcome is at least partly dependent on player input.
35  27.     A method as claimed in claim 26, comprising facilitating control of the avatar in
    a feature game by a player.
                                                                   99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

                                                - 28
    28.     A method as claimed in claim 26 or claim 27, comprising enabling a player to
    choose a feature game from a plurality of available feature games, the likelihood of a
    winning outcome in each feature game being dependent on skills of the avatar.
  5 29.     A method as claimed in claim 18, wherein the base game award is associated
    with a feature of a character in the feature game.
    30.     A method as claimed in claim 29, wherein the base game award is associated
    with an appearance of a character in the feature game.
10
    31.     A method as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 30, comprising determining
    whether to provide a game credit award based on the base game outcome.
    32.     A method as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 31, wherein the base game is a
15  spinning reel game.
    33.     A method as claimed in claim 32, wherein a base game award is awarded
    based on whether a winning combination of symbols occurs.
20  34.     A method as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 33, wherein the avatar attribute
    determines a skill of the avatar in the feature game.
25
                                                                  99058901 (GHMatters) P88268 AU.4 29/01118

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
