                                             ABSTRACT
        A system for persistently increasing the overall diameter and lumen diameter of a
peripheral vein is provided. The system is configured to increase the speed of blood in the
peripheral vein. The system comprises a pump configured to pump blood, a first conduit fluidly
coupled to the pump and configured to make a fluid connection with a donating vessel and
convey blood from the donating vessel to the pump, a second conduit fluidly coupled to the
pump and configured to make a fluid connection to the peripheral vein and convey blood from
the pump to the peripheral vein, and a control unit in communication with the pump and
configured to cause the pump to pump blood in a manner such that a wall shear stress in the
peripheral vein is greater than or equal to 0.76 Pa until a persistent increase in the overall
diameter of the peripheral vein occurs. The pump and the first and second conduits form a pump
conduit assembly. The control unit and the pump-conduit assembly are configured to pump
blood in a manner such that a mean pulse pressure in the second conduit fluidly connected to the
peripheral vein is less than 20 mmHg. Also provided is use of the system for increasing the
overall diameter lumen of a peripheral vein of a patient. A method of using a system for
persistently increasing the overall diameter and lumen diameter of a peripheral vein in a human
patient is also provided. A method of using a system for creating an arteriovenous fistula, an
arteriovenous graft, or a bypass graft in a human patient is also provided.

   SYSTEM AND METHOD TO INCREASE THE OVERALL DIAMETER OF VEINS
                                        By Nicholas Franano
         The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application No.
2015258177,     which is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application No.
2011217974, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
1. Field of the Invention
         The present invention relates to systems and methods for persistently increasing the
overall diameter and the lumen diameter of veins in patients. Specifically, the present invention
relates to systems and methods that utilize a blood pump to increase the blood speed and wall
shear stress (WSS) on the endothelium of peripheral veins for a period of time that results in a
persistent increase in the overall diameter and lumen diameter of those veins.
2. Background Information
         Many patients with chronic kidney disease eventually progress to end-stage renal disease
(ESRD) and need renal replacement therapy in order to remove fluid and waste products from
their body and sustain their life. Most patients with ESRD needing renal replacement therapy
receive hemodialysis. During hemodialysis, blood is removed from the circulatory system,
cleansed in a hemodialysis machine, and then returned to the circulatory system. Surgeons
create discrete "vascular access sites" that can be used to remove and return blood rapidly from
ESRD patients. While major advances have been made in the hemodialysis machines
themselves and other parts of the hemodialysis process, the creation of durable and reliable
vascular access sites where blood can be removed and returned to patients during hemodialysis
sessions has seen only modest improvement and remains the Achilles' heel of renal replacement
therapy. This often results in sickness and death for ESRD patients and places a large burden on
health care providers, payers, and public assistance programs worldwide.
                                               1

         Hemodialysis access sites generally come in three forms: arteriovenous fistulas (AVF),
arteriovenous grafts (AVG), and catheters. Each type of site is susceptible to high rates of failure
and complications, as described below.
         An AVF is constructed surgically by creating a direct connection between an artery and
vein. A functional wrist AVF is the longest-lasting, most desirable form of hemodialysis access,
with a mean patency of about 3 years. The vein leading away from the connection is called the
"outflow" vein. Dilation of the outflow vein is a critical component for an AVF to "mature" and
become usable. It is widely believed that the rapid flow of blood in the outflow vein created by
the AVF and the WSS it exerts on the endothelium of the vein is the major factor driving vein
dilation. Unfortunately, approximately 80% of patients aren't eligible for AVF placement in the
wrist, usually due to inadequate vein diameter. For eligible patients where AVF placement is
attempted, the site is not usable without further intervention in about 50%-60% of cases, a
problem known as "maturation failure". Small vessel diameter, especially small vein diameter,
has been identified as an important factor in AVF maturation failure. The rapid appearance of
aggressive vein wall scarring known as "intimal hyperplasia" has also been identified as an
important factor in AVF maturation failure. It is generally believed that the turbulence created
by the rapid flow of blood out of the artery and into the vein is a major factor causing this vein
wall scarring. Some investigators also postulate that cyclic stretching of the vein caused by the
entry of pulsatile arterial blood may also play a role in the stimulation of intimal hyperplasia and
outflow vein obstruction in AVF. As such, there is a teaching that rapid flow is problematic, and
attempts have been made to reduce flow in hemodialysis access sites by restricting lumen
diameter by banding in order to minimize failure rates. At the current time, no method exists
which preserves positive effects of flow-mediated dilation while eliminating the negative effects
of vein wall scarring and obstruction. Not surprisingly, a patient newly diagnosed with ESRD
and in need of hemodialysis has only a 50% chance of having a functional AVF within 6 months
after starting hemodialysis. Those patients without a functional AVF are forced to dialyze with
more costly forms of vascular access and are at a greater risk of complications, sickness, and
death.
         The second type of vascular access for hemodialysis is known as an arteriovenous graft
(AVG). An AVG is constructed by placing a segment of synthetic conduit between an artery and
                                               2

vein, usually in the arm or leg. A portion of the synthetic conduit is placed immediately under
the skin and used for needle access. More patients are eligible for AVGs, since veins not visible
on the skin surface can be used for outflow, and the rate of early failure is much lower than for
AVFs. Unfortunately, AVG mean primary patency is only about 4 - 6 months, mostly because
aggressive intimal hyperplasia and scarring develops rapidly in the wall of the vein near the
connection with the synthetic conduit, leading to stenosis and thrombosis. Similar to the
situation with AVF failure, the rapid and turbulent flow of blood created by the AVG is thought
to drive intimal hyperplasia and scarring in the wall of the outflow vein, often resulting in
obstruction of the AVG. Some investigators also postulate that cyclic stretching of the vein
caused by the entry of pulsatile arterial blood may also play a role in the formation of intimal
hyperplasia and outflow vein obstruction in AVG. Although AVGs are less desirable than
AVFs, about 25% of patients dialyze with an AVG, mostly because they are not eligible to
receive an AVF.
         Patients who are not able to get hemodialysis through an AVF or AVG must have a large
catheter inserted in the neck, chest, or leg in order to receive hemodialysis. These catheters often
become infected, placing the patient at high risk for sepsis and death. Patients with catheter
sepsis usually require hospitalization, removal of the catheter, insertion of a temporary catheter,
treatment with IV antibiotics, and then placement of a new catheter or other type of access site
when the infection has cleared. Catheters are also susceptible to obstruction by thrombus and
fibrin build-up around the tip. Hemodialysis catheters have a mean patency of about 6 months
and are generally the least desirable form of hemodialysis access. Although catheters are less
desirable than AVFs and AVG, about 20% of patients dialyze with a catheter, mostly because
they have not yet been able to receive a functional AVF or AVG, or are not eligible to receive an
AVF or AVG.
         The problem of hemodialysis access site failure has received more attention recently as
the number of ESRD patients undergoing routine hemodialysis has increased worldwide. In
2004, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) announced a "Fistula First"
initiative to increase the use of AVFs in providing hemodialysis access for patients with end
stage renal failure. This major initiative is a response to published Medicare data showing that
patients who dialyze with an AVF have reduced morbidity and mortality compared to patients
                                                3

with an AVG or a catheter. Costs associated with AVF patients are substantially lower than the
costs associated with AVG patients in the first year of dialysis, and in subsequent years. The
cost savings of a dialyzing with an AVF are even greater when compared to dialyzing with a
catheter.
         To be eligible for an AVF or AVG, patients must have a peripheral vein with a lumen
diameter of at least 2.5 mm or 4 mm, respectively. However, there is currently no method for
persistently increasing the overall diameter and lumen diameter of peripheral veins in ESRD
patients who are ineligible for an AVF or AVG due to inadequate vein size. Consequently,
patients with veins that are too small to attempt an AVF or AVG are forced to use less desirable
forms of vascular access such as catheters. Similarly, there is currently no method of treatment
for AVF maturation failure, which falls disproportionately on patients with small vein diameters.
Thus, systems and methods for enlarging the overall diameter and lumen diameter of a vein prior
to the creation of AVF or AVG are needed. The importance of this need is highlighted by a
recent study demonstrating that ESRD patients who were forced to use less desirable forms of
vascular access such as catheters had a substantially higher risk of becoming sick or dying when
compared with patients who were able to use an AVF or AVG for hemodialysis.
         There is also a need to persistently increase vein diameter for other patients, such as those
with atherosclerotic blockage of peripheral arteries who are in need of peripheral bypass grafting.
Patients with peripheral artery disease (PAD) who have an obstruction to blood flow in the
arteries of the legs often suffer from claudication, skin ulceration, and tissue ischemia and many
of these patients eventually require amputation of portions of the affected limb. In some of these
patients, the obstruction can be relieved to an adequate degree by balloon angioplasty or the
implantation of a vascular stent. In many patients, however, the obstruction is too severe for
these types of minimally invasive therapies. Therefore, surgeons will often create a bypass graft
that diverts blood around the obstructed arteries and restores adequate blood flow to the affected
extremity. However, many patients in need of a peripheral bypass graft cannot use their own
veins as bypass conduits due to inadequate vein diameter and are forced to use synthetic conduits
made of materials such as polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE, e.g. Gore-Tex) or polyethylene
terephthalate (PET, e.g. Dacron). Studies have shown that using a patient's own veins as bypass
conduits results in better long term patency than using synthetic bypass conduits made from
                                                4

materials such as PTFE or Dacron. The use of a synthetic bypass conduit increases the risk of
stenosis in the artery at the distal end of the graft and thrombosis of the entire conduit, resulting
in bypass graft failure and a recurrence or worsening of symptoms. Thus, systems and methods
for increasing the overall diameter and lumen diameter of veins prior to the creation of bypass
grafts are needed, especially for patients who are ineligible to use their own veins for the creation
of a bypass graft due to inadequate vein diameter.
         In view of the above, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art from this disclosure
that there exists a need for a system and method for persistently increasing the lumen diameter
and overall diameter of peripheral veins so that those veins can be used for the creation of
hemodialysis access sites and bypass grafts. The invention described herein may address this
need in the art as well as other needs, which will become apparent to those skilled in the art from
this disclosure.
      A reference herein to a patent document or any other matter identified as prior art, is not to
be taken as an admission that the document or other matter was known or that the information it
contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of any of the claims.
                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         In one aspect, the present invention provides a system for persistently increasing the
overall diameter and lumen diameter of a peripheral vein, wherein the system is configured to
increase the speed of blood in the peripheral vein, the system comprising: a pump configured to
pump blood; a first conduit fluidly coupled to the pump and configured to make a fluid
connection with a donating vessel and convey blood from the donating vessel to the pump; a
second conduit fluidly coupled to the pump and configured to make a fluid connection to the
peripheral vein and convey blood from the pump to the peripheral vein, wherein the pump and
the first and second conduits form a pump-conduit assembly; and a control unit in
communication with the pump and configured to cause the pump to pump blood in a manner
such that a wall shear stress in the peripheral vein is greater than or equal to 0.76 Pa until a
persistent increase in the overall diameter of the peripheral vein occurs; wherein the control unit
and the pump-conduit assembly are configured to pump blood in a manner such that a mean
                                                5

pulse pressure in the second conduit fluidly connected to the peripheral vein is less than 20
mmHg.
        In another aspect, the present invention provides a use of the system as described above
for increasing the overall diameter and lumen diameter of a peripheral vein of a patient, wherein:
one end of a pump-conduit assembly is configured for fluidly connecting to a donating vessel;
another end of the pump-conduit assembly is configured for fluidly connecting to a peripheral
vein; and the system is configured for pumping blood from the donating vessel into the
peripheral vein at a flow rate and for a time period sufficient to result in a persistent increase in
the overall diameter and lumen diameter of the peripheral vein; and after use of the system, the
overall diameter and lumen diameter of the peripheral vein is increased.
        In another aspect, the present invention provides a use of the system as described above
for increasing the overall diameter and lumen diameter of a peripheral vein of a patient, wherein:
one end of a pump-conduit assembly is configured for fluidly connecting to a donating vessel;
another end of the pump-conduit assembly is configured for fluidly connecting to a peripheral
vein; the system is configured for pumping blood from the donating vessel into the peripheral
vein at a flow rate and for a time period sufficient to result in a persistent increase in the overall
diameter and lumen diameter of the peripheral vein; and after use of the system, at least a portion
of the peripheral vein with the persistently increased overall diameter and lumen diameter is used
to make an arteriovenous fistula, and arteriovenous graft, or a bypass graft.
        In another aspect, the present invention provides a method of using a system for
persistently increasing the overall diameter and lumen diameter of a peripheral vein in a human
patient, the method comprising the steps of: fluidly connecting one end of a pump-conduit
assembly to a donating vessel; fluidly connecting another end of the pump-conduit assembly to a
peripheral vein; pumping blood from the donating vessel into the peripheral vein in a manner
wherein the pumping of blood results in an increased speed of blood in the peripheral vein, a
mean pulse pressure less than 20 mmHg in a conduit of the pump-conduit assembly fluidly
connected to the peripheral vein, and a wall shear stress in the peripheral vein of greater than or
equal to 0.76 Pa and for a period of time sufficient to result in a persistent increase in the overall
diameter of the peripheral vein.
                                               6

        In another aspect, the present invention provides a method of using a system for creating
an arteriovenous fistula, an arteriovenous graft, or a bypass graft in a human patient, the method
comprising the steps of: fluidly connecting one end of a pump-conduit assembly to a donating
vessel; fluidly connecting another end of the pump-conduit assembly to a peripheral vein;
pumping blood from the donating vessel into the peripheral vein in a manner wherein the
pumping of blood results in an increased speed of blood in the peripheral vein, a mean pulse
pressure less than 20 mmHg in a conduit of the pump-conduit assembly fluidly connected to the
peripheral vein, and a wall shear stress in the peripheral vein of greater than or equal to 0.76 Pa
and for a period of time sufficient to result in a persistent increase in the overall diameter of the
peripheral vein; and creating an arteriovenous fistula, arteriovenous graft, or bypass graft in the
patient using at least a portion of the peripheral vein with the persistently increased overall
diameter.
        Methods of using a blood pump to increase the overall diameter and the lumen diameter
of peripheral veins are described herein. Systems and methods are described wherein the wall
shear stress (WSS) exerted on the endothelium of the peripheral vein is increased by placing a
blood pump upstream of the peripheral vein for a period of time sufficient to result in dilation of
the peripheral vein. The pump directs the blood into the peripheral vein preferably in a manner
wherein the blood has reduced pulse pressure when compared with the pulse pressure of blood in
a peripheral artery.
        Studies have shown hemodynamic forces and changes in hemodynamic forces within
veins play a vital role in determining the overall diameter and lumen diameter of those veins.
For example, persistent increases in blood speed and WSS can lead to vein dilation, with the
amount of dilation being dependent both on the level of increased blood speed and WSS and the
time that the blood speed and WSS are elevated. The elevated blood speed and WSS are sensed
by endothelial cells, which trigger signaling mechanisms that result in stimulation of vascular
smooth muscle cells, attraction of monocytes and macrophages, and synthesis and release of
proteases capable of degrading components of the extracellular matrix such as collagen and
elastin. As such, embodiments of the present invention relate to increasing blood speed and
WSS for a period of time sufficient to result in vein remodeling and dilation, preferably for a
                                                7

period of time greater than seven days. Embodiments of the present invention also relate to
methods of periodic adjustment of pump parameters to optimize vein remodeling and dilation.
        Wall shear stress has been shown to be the key factor for blood vessel dilation in
response to an increased blood flow. Assuming a Hagen-Poiseuille blood flow in the vessel (i.e.
a laminar flow with a fully developed parabolic velocity profile), then WSS is given by the
equation:
                                WSS(t)= 4Qu/7uR , where:
                                Q    volume flow rate in mL/s
                                  = viscosity of blood in units of poise
                                R radius of vessel in cm
                                -= wall shear stress in dynes/cm 2
        The systems and methods described herein increase the WSS level in a peripheral vein.
Normal WSS for veins ranges between 0.076 Pa and 0.76 Pa. The systems and methods
described herein increase the WSS level to a range between 0.76 Pa and 23 Pa, preferably to a
range between 2.5 Pa and 7.5 Pa. Preferably, the WSS is increased for between 7 days and 84
days, or preferably between 7 and 42 days, to induce persistent dilation in the peripheral
accepting vein such that veins that were initially ineligible for use as a hemodialysis access site
or bypass graft due to a small vein diameter become usable. This can also be accomplished by
intermittently increasing WSS during the treatment period, with intervening periods of normal
WSS.
        The systems and methods described herein also increase the speed of blood in peripheral
veins and in certain instances, peripheral arteries. At rest, the mean speed of blood in the
cephalic vein in humans is generally between 5 - 9 cm/s, while the speed of blood in the brachial
artery is generally between 10 - 15 cm/s. For the systems and methods described herein, the
mean speed of blood in the peripheral vein is increased to a range between 15 cm/s - 100 cm/s,
preferably to a range between 25 cm/s and 100 cm/s, depending on the diameter of peripheral
accepting vein and the length of time the pumping of blood into the peripheral accepting vein is
planned. Preferably, the mean blood speed is increased for between 7 days and 84 days, or
preferably between 7 and 42 days, to induce persistent dilation in the peripheral accepting vein
such that veins that were initially ineligible for use as a hemodialysis access site or bypass graft
                                                8

due to a small vein diameter become usable. This can also be accomplished by intermittently
increasing mean blood speed during the treatment period, with intervening periods of normal
mean blood speed.
         A method of increasing the lumen diameter and overall diameter of a peripheral vein in a
patient is set forth herein. The method comprises performing a first procedure to access an artery
or vein (the donating vessel) and a peripheral vein (the accepting vein) and connecting the
donating vessel to the accepting vein with a pump system. The pump system is then activated to
artificially direct blood from the donating vessel to the accepting vein. The method also includes
monitoring the blood pumping process for a period of time. The method further includes
adjusting the speed of the pump, the speed of the blood being pumped, or the WSS on the
endothelium of the accepting vein and monitoring the pumping process again. After a period of
time has elapsed to allow for vein dilation, the diameter of the accepting vein is measured to
determine if adequate persistent increase in the overall diameter and lumen diameter of the
accepting vein has been achieved and the pumping process is adjusted again, as necessary,
When adequate amount of persistent increase in the overall diameter and lumen diameter of the
accepting vein has been achieved, a second surgery is performed to remove the pump. A
hemodialysis access site (such as an AVF or AVG) or bypass graft can be created at this time, or
a later time, using at least a portion of the persistently enlarged accepting vein.
         In one embodiment, a surgical procedure is performed to expose segments of two veins.
One end of a first synthetic conduit is "fluidly" connected (i.e. joined lumen to lumen to permit
fluid communication therebetween) to the vein where blood is to be removed (the donating vein).
The other end of the first synthetic conduit is fluidly connected to the inflow port of a pump.
One end of a second synthetic conduit is fluidly connected to the vein where blood is to be
directed (the accepting vein). The other end of the second synthetic conduit is fluidly connected
to the outflow port of the same pump. Deoxygenated blood is pumped from the donating vein to
the accepting vein until the vein has persistently dilated to the desired overall diameter and
lumen diameter. The term "persistently dilated" is used herein to mean that even if a pump is
turned off an increase in overall diameter or lumen diameter of a vessel can still be
demonstrated, when compared to the diameter of the vein prior to the period of blood pumping.
That is, the vessel has become larger independent of the pressure generated by the pump. Once
                                                9

the desired amount of persistent vein enlargement has occurred, a second surgical procedure is
performed to remove the pump and synthetic conduits. A hemodialysis access site (such as an
AVF or AVG) or bypass graft can be created at this time, or a later time, using at least a portion
of the persistently enlarged accepting vein. In this embodiment, the pump port may be fluidly
connected directly to the donating vein or the accepting vein without using an interposed
synthetic conduit. In a variation of this embodiment, the accepting vein may be located in one
body location, such as the cephalic vein in an arm and the donating vein may be in another
location, such as the femoral vein in a leg. In this instance, the two ends of the pump-conduit
assembly will be located within the body and a bridging portion of the pump-conduit assembly
may be extracorporeal (outside the body, e.g. worn under the clothing) or intracorporeal (inside
the body, e.g. tunneled under the skin). Furthermore, in certain instances, the donating vessel
may be more peripheral in relative body location than the accepting vein.
         In another embodiment, a method comprises a surgical procedure that is performed to
expose a segment of a peripheral artery and a segment of a peripheral vein. One end of a first
synthetic conduit is fluidly connected to the peripheral artery. The other end of the first synthetic
conduit is fluidly connected to the inflow port of a pump. One end of a second synthetic conduit
is fluidly connected to the peripheral vein. The other end of the second synthetic conduit is
fluidly connected to the outflow port of the same pump. Pumping oxygenated blood from the
peripheral artery to the peripheral vein is performed until the vein has persistently dilated to the
desired overall diameter and lumen diameter. Once the desired amount of vein enlargement has
occurred, a second surgical procedure is performed to remove the pump and synthetic conduits.
A hemodialysis access site (such as an AVF or AVG) or bypass graft can be created at this time,
or a later time, using at least a portion of the persistently enlarged accepting vein. A variation of
this embodiment is provided wherein the pump port may be fluidly connected directly to the
artery or vein without using an interposed synthetic conduit.
         In yet another embodiment, a pair of specialized catheters are inserted into the venous
system. The first end of one catheter is attached to the inflow port of a pump (hereafter the
"inflow catheter") while the first end of the other catheter is attached to the outflow port of the
pump (hereafter the "outflow catheter"). Optionally, the two catheters can be joined together,
such as with a double lumen catheter. The catheters are configured for insertion into the lumen
                                                10

of the venous system. After insertion, the tip of the second end of the inflow catheter is
positioned in anywhere in the venous system where a sufficient amount of blood can be drawn
into the inflow catheter (e.g. the right atrium, superior vena cava, subclavian vein, or
brachiocephalic vein). After insertion, the tip of the second end of the outflow catheter is
positioned in a segment of peripheral vein (the accepting vein) in the venous system where blood
can be delivered by the outflow catheter (e.g. cephalic vein). The pump then draws
deoxygenated blood into the lumen of the inflow catheter from the donating vein and discharges
the blood from the outflow catheter and into the lumen of the accepting vein. In this
embodiment, the pump and a portion of the inflow catheter and outflow catheters remain external
to the patient. The pump is operated until the desired amount of persistent overall diameter and
lumen diameter enlargement has occurred in the accepting vein, whereupon the pump and
catheters are removed. A hemodialysis access site (such as an AVF or AVG) or bypass graft can
be created at this time, or a later time, using at least a portion of the persistently enlarged
accepting vein.
        A system for increasing the blood speed and WSS in a vein by delivery of deoxygenated
blood from a donating vein to an accepting vein in a patient is provided that comprises two
synthetic conduits, each with two ends, a blood pump, a control unit, and a power source. This
system may also contain one or more sensor units. In one embodiment of the system, the
synthetic conduits and pump, collectively known as the "pump-conduit assembly" is configured
to draw deoxygenated blood from the donating vein or the right atrium and pump that blood into
the accepting vein. The pump-conduit assembly is configured to pump deoxygenated blood. In
another embodiment of the system, the pump-conduit assembly is configured to draw
oxygenated blood from a peripheral artery and pump the blood into a peripheral vein. The blood
is pumped in a manner that increases the blood speed in the artery and vein and increases WSS
exerted on the endothelium of the artery and vein for a period of time sufficient to cause a
persistent increase in the overall diameter and lumen diameter of the peripheral artery and vein.
Preferably, the blood being pumped into peripheral vein has low pulsatility, for example lower
pulsatility than the blood in a peripheral artery. A variation of this embodiment is provided
whereby the pump is fluidly connected directly to the artery or vein (or both) without using an
interposed synthetic conduit. The pump includes an inlet and an outlet, and the pump is
                                               11

configured to deliver deoxygenated or oxygenated blood to the peripheral vein in a manner that
increases the speed of the blood in the vein and the WSS exerted on the endothelium in the vein
to cause a persistent increase in the overall diameter and the lumen diameter of the peripheral
vein. The blood pump may be implanted in the patient, may remain external to the patient, or
may have implanted and external portions. All or some of the synthetic conduits may be
implanted in the patient, may be implanted subcutaneously, or may be implanted within the
lumen of the venous system, or any combination thereof. The implanted portions of pump
conduit assembly may be monitored and adjusted periodically, for example, every seven days.
         Methods of increasing the blood speed in a peripheral vein and increasing the WSS
exerted on the endothelium of a peripheral vein of a human patient in need of a hemodialysis
access site or a bypass graft are also provided. A device designed to augment arterial blood flow
for the treatment of heart failure would be useful for this purpose. Specifically, a ventricular
assist device (VAD) which is optimized for low blood flows would be capable of pumping blood
from a donating vessel to a peripheral vein to induce a persistent increase in overall diameter and
lumen diameter of the peripheral vein. In various embodiments, a pediatric VAD, or a miniature
VAD designed to treat moderate heart failure in adults (such as the Synergy pump by Circulite)
may be used. Other devices, including an LVAD or an RVAD that are optimized for low blood
flows, may also be used.
        The method comprises fluidly connecting the low-flow VAD, a derivative thereof, or a
similar type device to a donating vessel, drawing blood from the donating vessel, and pumping it
into the peripheral accepting vein for a sufficient amount of time to cause a desired amount of
persistent increase in the overall diameter and the lumen diameter of the peripheral vein. The
blood pump may be implanted into the patient or it may remain external to the patient. When the
pump is external to the patient, it may be affixed to the patient for continuous pumping.
Alternatively, the pump may be configured to detach from the donating and accepting vessels of
the patient for periodic and/or intermittent pumping sessions.
        The lumen diameter of peripheral accepting veins can be monitored while the blood is
being pumped into the vein using conventional methods such as visualization with ultrasound or
diagnostic angiography. A pump-conduit assembly or pump-catheter assembly may incorporate
features that facilitate diagnostic angiography such as radiopaque markers that identify sites that
                                               12

can be accessed with needle for injection of contrast into the assembly that will subsequently
flow into the accepting peripheral vein and make it visible during fluoroscopy using both
conventional and digital subtraction angiography.
        When a portion of a pump-conduit assembly or pump catheter assembly is located
external to the body, then an antimicrobial coating or cuff may be affixed to the portion of the
device that connects the implanted and external components. For example, when a controller
and/or power source is strapped to the wrist, attached to a belt, or carried in a bag or pack, then
the antimicrobial coating is placed on or around a connection and/or entry point where the device
enters the patient's body.
        These and other features, aspects and advantages of the present invention will become
apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description, which, taken in
conjunction with the annexed drawings, discloses preferred embodiments of the present
invention.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Referring now to the attached drawings which form a part of this original disclosure:
        Figure 1A is a schematic view of a pump-conduit assembly of a system and method in
accordance with a first embodiment of the present invention;
        Figure lB is a schematic view of the pump-conduit assembly of Fig. 1A as applied to a
circulatory system of a patient in accordance with the first embodiment of the present invention;
        Figure IC is a magnified view of a portion of Figure IB;
        Figure 2A is a schematic view of a pump-conduit assembly of a system and method in
accordance with a second embodiment of the present invention;
        Figure 2B is a schematic view of the pump-conduit assembly of Fig. 2A as applied to a
circulatory system of a patient in accordance with the second embodiment of the present
invention;
        Figure 2C is a magnified view of a portion of Figure 2B;
        Figure 3 is a schematic view of a pump-conduit assembly of a system and method as
applied to a circulatory system of a patient in accordance with a third embodiment of the present
invention;
                                              13

         Figure 4A is a schematic view of a pump-catheter assembly of a system and method in
accordance with a fourth embodiment of the present invention;
         Figure 4B is a schematic view of the pump-catheter assembly of Figure 4A as applied to
a circulatory system of a patient in accordance with the fourth embodiment of the present
invention;
         Figure 5A is a schematic view of a pump-conduit assembly of a system and method in
accordance with a fifth embodiment of the present invention;
         Figure 5B is a schematic view of the pump-conduit assembly of Figure 5A as applied to a
circulatory system of a patient in accordance with the fifth embodiment of the present invention;
         Figure 6 is a schematic diagram of a pump operated in conjunction with a control unit for
use in any of the above-mentioned embodiments;
         Figure 7 is a flow chart of a method in accordance with the first and third embodiments
of the present invention;
         Figure 8 is a flow chart of a method in accordance with the second and fourth
embodiments of the present invention; and
         Figure 9 is a flow chart of a method in accordance with the fifth embodiment of the
present invention.
              DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
         Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be explained with reference to
the drawings. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art from this disclosure that the following
description of the embodiments of the present invention is provided for illustration only and not
for limiting the invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.
Referring initially to Figures 1-4, a system 10 to increase the overall diameter of veins is
illustrated as used for a patient 20. The system 10 removes deoxygenated venous blood from the
patient's venous system 22 and redirects that blood into the accepting peripheral vein 30. The
system 10 also increases the speed of blood in the accepting peripheral vein 30 and increases the
WSS exerted on the endothelium of the accepting peripheral vein 30, to increase the diameter of
the accepting peripheral vein 30 located, for example, in an arm 24 or a leg 26. The diameter of
blood vessels such as peripheral veins can be determined by measuring the diameter of the
lumen, which is the open space at the center of blood vessel where blood is flowing. For the
                                              14

purpose of this application, this measurement is referred to as "lumen diameter". The diameter
of blood vessels can be determined by measuring the diameter in a manner that includes the wall
of the blood vessel. For the purpose of this application, this measurement is referred to as
"overall diameter". The invention relates to simultaneously and persistently increasing the
overall diameter and lumen diameter of a peripheral vein by directing blood (preferably with low
pulsatility) into the peripheral vein, thereby increasing the speed of the blood in the peripheral
vein and increasing the WSS on the endothelium of the peripheral vein. Systems and methods
are described wherein the speed of the blood in a peripheral vein and the WSS on the
endothelium of the peripheral vein is increased by using a pump. Preferably, the pump directs
blood into the peripheral vein, wherein the pumped blood has reduced pulsatility, such as when
the pulse pressure is lower than blood in a peripheral artery.
         The systems and methods described herein increase the WSS level in a peripheral vein.
Normal WSS for veins ranges between 0.076 Pa and 0.76 Pa. The systems and methods
described herein are configured to increase the WSS level in the accepting peripheral vein to
range from about 0.76 Pa and 23 Pa, preferably to a range between 2.5 Pa and 7.5 Pa. Sustained
WSS less than 0.76 Pa might dilate veins but at a rate that is comparatively slow. Sustained
WSS greater than 23 Pa are likely to cause denudation (loss) of the endothelium of the vein,
which is known to retard dilation of blood vessels in response to increases in blood speed and
WSS. Pumping blood in a manner that increases WSS to the desired range for preferably at least
7 days, and more preferably between about 14 and 84 days, for example, produces an amount of
persistent dilation in the accepting peripheral vein such that veins that were initially ineligible for
use as a hemodialysis access site or bypass graft due to small vein diameter become usable. The
blood pumping process may be monitored and adjusted periodically. For example, the pump
may be adjusted every seven days to account for changes in the peripheral vein prior to achieving
the desired persistent dilation.
        The systems and methods described herein also increase the speed of blood in peripheral
veins and in certain instances, peripheral arteries. At rest, the mean speed of blood in the
cephalic vein in humans is generally between 5 - 9 cm/s, while the speed of blood in the brachial
artery is generally between 10 - 15 cm/s. For the systems and methods described herein, the
mean speed of blood in the peripheral vein is increased to a range between 15 cm/s - 100 cm/s,
                                               15

preferably to a range between 25 cm/s and 100 cm/s, depending on the diameter of peripheral
accepting vein and the length of time the pumping of blood into the peripheral accepting vein is
planned. Preferably, the mean blood speed is increased for between 7 days and 84 days, or
preferably between 7 and 42 days, to induce persistent dilation in the peripheral accepting vein
such that veins that were initially ineligible for use as a hemodialysis access site or bypass graft
due to a small vein diameter become usable. This can also be accomplished by intermittently
increasing mean blood speed during the treatment period, with intervening periods of normal
mean blood speed.
        Studies have shown hemodynamic forces and changes in hemodynamic forces within
veins play a vital role in determining the overall diameter and lumen diameter of those veins.
For example, persistent increases in blood speed and WSS can lead to vein dilation. The
elevated blood speed and WSS are sensed by endothelial cells, which trigger signaling
mechanisms that result in stimulation of vascular smooth muscle cells, attraction of monocytes
and macrophages, and synthesis and release of proteases capable of degrading components of the
extracellular matrix such as collagen and elastin. As such, the present invention relates to
increasing blood speed and WSS for a period of time sufficient to result in vein remodeling and
dilation.
        Assuming a Hagen-Poiseuille blood flow in the vessel (i.e. a laminar flow with a fully
developed parabolic velocity profile), then WSS can be determined using the equation:
                                WSS(t)= 4Qu/7uR , where:
                                Q    volume flow rate in mL/s
                                  = viscosity of blood in units of poise
                                R radius of vessel in cm
                                -= wall shear stress in dynes/cm 2
        The systems and methods described herein increase the WSS level in a peripheral vein.
Normal WSS for veins ranges between 0.076 Pa and 0.76 Pa. The systems and methods
described herein increase the WSS level to a range between 0.76 Pa and 23 Pa, preferably to a
range between 2.5 Pa and 7.5 Pa. Preferably, the WSS is increased for between 7 days and 84
days, or preferably between 7 and 42 days, to induce persistent dilation in the peripheral
accepting vein such that veins that were initially ineligible for use as a hemodialysis access site
                                               16

or bypass graft due to a small vein diameter become usable. This can also be accomplished by
intermittently increasing WSS during the treatment period, with intervening periods of normal
WSS.
         WSS levels in the accepting peripheral vein lower than 0.076 Pa may dilate veins
however, this would likely occurs at a slow rate. WSS levels in accepting peripheral veins
higher than about 23 Pa are likely to cause denudation (loss) of the endothelium of the veins.
Denudation of the endothelium of blood vessels is known to retard dilation in the setting of
increased in blood speed and WSS. The increased WSS induces sufficient persistent dilation in
the veins, such that those that were initially ineligible for use as a hemodialysis access site or
bypass graft due to a small diameter become usable. The diameter of the accepting vein can be
determined intermittently, such as every 7-14 days for example, to allow for pump speed
adjustment in order to optimize vein dilation during the treatment period.
         The systems and methods described herein also increase the speed of blood in peripheral
veins and in certain instances, peripheral arteries. At rest, the mean speed of blood in the
cephalic vein in humans is generally between 5 - 9 cm/s, while the speed of blood in the brachial
artery is generally between 10 - 15 cm/s. For the systems and methods described herein, the
mean speed of blood in the peripheral vein is increased to a range between 15 cm/s - 100 cm/s,
preferably to a range between 25 cm/s and 100 cm/s, depending on the diameter of peripheral
accepting vein and the length of time the pumping of blood into the peripheral accepting vein is
planned. Preferably, the mean blood speed is increased for between 7 days and 84 days, or
preferably between 7 and 42 days, to induce persistent dilation in the peripheral accepting vein
such that veins that were initially ineligible for use as a hemodialysis access site or bypass graft
due to a small vein diameter become usable. Mean blood speed levels in the accepting
peripheral vein lower than 15 cm/s may dilate veins however, this would likely occurs at a slow
rate. Mean blood velocity levels in accepting peripheral veins higher than about 100 cm/s are
likely to cause denudation (loss) of the endothelium of the veins. Denudation of the endothelium
of blood vessels is known to retard dilation in the setting of increased in blood speed. The
increased mean blood speed induces sufficient persistent dilation in the veins, such that those
that were initially ineligible for use as a hemodialysis access site or bypass graft due to a small
diameter become usable. The diameter of the accepting vein can be determined intermittently,
                                               17

such as every 7-14 days for example, to allow for pump speed adjustment in order to optimize
vein dilation during the treatment period.
         Referring to Figs. 1-3, the system 10 includes a pump-conduit assembly 12 for directing
deoxygenated venous blood from a donating vein 29 of the venous system 22 of the patient 20 to
the peripheral or accepting vein 30. In various embodiments, the peripheral or accepting vein 30
may be a cephalic vein, radial vein, median vein, ulnar vein, antecubital vein, median cephalic
vein, median basilic vein, basilic vein, brachial vein, lesser saphenous vein, greater saphenous
vein, or femoral vein. Other veins that might be useful in the creation of a hemodialysis access
site or bypass graft or other veins useful for other vascular surgery procedures requiring the use
of veins may be used. The pump-conduit assembly 12 delivers the deoxygenated blood to the
peripheral or accepting vein 30. The rapid speed of the blood 34 and the elevated WSS in the
peripheral vein 30 causes the peripheral or accepting vein 30 to enlarge over time. Thus, the
system 10 and method 100 (referring to Figs. 7-9) of the present invention advantageously
increases the diameter of the peripheral or accepting vein 30 so that it can be used, for example,
to construct an AVF or AVG access site for hemodialysis or as a bypass graft.
         As used herein, deoxygenated blood is blood that has passed through the capillary system
and had oxygen removed by the surrounding tissues and then passed into the venous system 22.
A peripheral vein 30, as used herein, means any vein with a portion residing outside of the chest,
abdomen, or pelvis. In the embodiment shown in Figs 1A and 2A, the peripheral or accepting
vein 30 is the cephalic vein. However, in other embodiments, the peripheral vein 30 may be a
radial vein, median vein, ulnar vein, antecubital vein, median cephalic vein, median basilic vein,
basilic vein, brachial vein, lesser saphenous vein, greater saphenous vein, or femoral vein. In
addition to a peripheral vein, other veins that might be useful in the creation of a hemodialysis
access site or bypass graft or other veins useful for other vascular surgery procedures requiring
the use of veins may also be used, such as those residing in the chest, abdomen, and pelvis.
         In order to reduce pulsatility and/or provided low-pulsatile flow, a number of pulsatility
dampening techniques may be used. By way of example, and not limitation, such techniques
include tuning the head-flow characteristics of a blood pump, adding compliance to the pump
outflow, and/or modulating the pump speed.
                                               18

         An AVF created using the cephalic vein at the wrist is a preferred form of vascular access
for hemodialysis but this vein is frequently of inadequate diameter to facilitate the creation of an
AVF in this location. Thus, the present invention is most advantageous to creating wrist AVFs
in ESRD patients and increasing the percentage of ESRD patients that receive hemodialysis
using a wrist AVF as a vascular access site.
         The pump-conduit assembly 12 includes a blood pump 14 and synthetic conduits 16 and
18, i.e. an inflow conduit 16 and an outflow conduit 18. Blood pumps have been developed as a
component of ventricular assist devices (VADs) and have been miniaturized to treat both adult
patients with moderate heart failure and pediatric patients. These pumps can be implanted or
remain external to the patient and are usually connected to a controller and a power source.
Referring to Fig. 6, a schematic diagram of the pump-conduit assembly 12 is illustrated. The
pump 14 can be a rotary pump such as an axial, mixed flow, or centrifugal pump. Without
recognizing specific limitations, the bearing for the pump 14 can be constructed with magnetic
fields, with hydrodynamic forces, or using a mechanical contact bearing such as a double-pin
bearing. Pumps used in pediatric VAD systems or other low flow VAD systems can be used.
Alternatively, the pump 14 can be an extracardiac pump such as that shown and described in
U.S. Patent Nos. 6,015,272 and 6,244,835, both of which are hereby incorporated herein by
reference. These pumps are suitable for use in the system 10 and method 100 of the present
invention. The pump 14 has an inlet 38 to receive deoxygenated blood drawn through the inflow
conduit 16 and an outlet 40 for blood flow 34 to exit the pump 14. In regards to pumps used in
pediatric VAD systems or other low flow VAD systems suitable for use as pump 14 of the
present invention, these pumps can be sized as small as about the size of a AA battery or the
diameter of a United States half dollar or quarter, and can weigh as little as about 25-35g or less.
These pumps are designed to pump about 0.3 to 1.5 L/min or I to 2.5 L/min, for example.
Modifications to these pumps could be made to reduce this range to as low as 0.05 L/min for use
in small diameter veins. A priming volume can be about 0.5-0.6 ml, for example. The blood
contacting surfaces of the pump 14 preferably include Ti6 Al4 V and commercially pure titanium
alloys and can include other materials such as injection-moldable ceramics and polymers, and
alternative titanium alloys, e.g. Ti 6Al 7Nb. The blood-contacting surface also preferably has one
or more coatings and surface treatments. As such, any of a variety of pumping devices can be
                                               19

used so long as it can be connected to the vascular system and can pump a sufficient amount of
blood such that the desired WSS is achieved in the accepting vein.
        The pump 14 includes various components 42 and a motor 44, as shown in Fig. 6. The
various components 42 and motor 44 can be those common to a VAD. For example, the
components 42 include one or more of a shaft, impeller blades, bearings, stator vanes, rotor, or
stator. The rotor can be magnetically levitated. The motor 44 can include a stator, rotor, coil,
and magnets. The motor 44 may be any suitable electric motor, such as a multi-phase motor
controlled via pulse-width modulated current.
        The system 10 and method 100 can utilize one or more of the pumps described in the
following publications: The PediaFlowTM Pediatric Ventricular Assist Device, P. Wearden, et
al., Pediatric Cardiac Surgery Annual, pp. 92-98, 2006; J. Wu et al., Designing with Heart,
ANSYS Advantage, Vol. 1, Iss. 2, pp. s12-s13, 2007; and J. Baldwin, et al., The National Heart,
Lung, and Blood Institute Pediatric Circulatory Support Program, Circulation, Vol. 113, pp. 147
155, 2006. Other examples of pumps that can be used as the pump 14 include: the Novacor,
PediaFlow, Levacor, or MiVAD from World Heart, Inc.; the Debakey Heart Assist 1-5 from
Micromed, Inc.; the HeartMate XVE, HeartMate II, HeartMate III, IVAD, or PVAD from
Thoratec, Inc.; the Impella, BVS5000, AB5000, or Symphony from Abiomed, Inc.; the
TandemHeart from CardiacAssist, Inc.; the VentrAssist from Ventracor, Inc.; the Incor or Excor
from Berlin Heart, GmbH; the Duraheart from Terumo, Inc.; the HVAD or MVAD from
HeartWare, Inc.; the Jarvik 2000 Flowmaker or Pediatric Jarvik 2000 Flowmaker from Jarvik
Heart, Inc.; the Gyro C1E3 from Kyocera, Inc.; the CorAide or PediPump from the Cleveland
Clinic Foundation; the MEDOS HIA VAD from MEDOS Medizintechnik AG; the pCAS from
Ension, Inc; the Synergy from Circulite, Inc; the CentriMag, PediMag, and UltraMag from
Levitronix, LLC; and, the BP-50 and BP-80 from Medtronic, Inc. The pumps can be monitored
and adjusted manually or with a software program, application, or other automated system. The
software program can automatically adjust the pump speed to maintain the desired amount of
blood flow and WSS in the accepting vein. Alternatively, the vein diameter and blood flow may
be periodically checked manually and the pump may be manually adjusted, for example, by
tuning the head-flow characteristics of the pump, adding compliance to the pump outflow, and/or
modulating the pump speed. Other adjustments may also be made.
                                             20

         The synthetic conduits 16 and 18 are comprised of PTFE and/or Dacron, preferentially
reinforced so that the synthetic conduits 16 and 18 are less susceptible to kinking and
obstruction. All or a portion of the conduits 16 and 18 may be comprised of materials commonly
used to make hemodialysis catheters such as polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene, polyurethane,
and/or silicone. The synthetic conduits 16 and 18 can be of any material or combination of
materials so long as the conduits 16 and 18 exhibit necessary characteristics, such as flexibility,
sterility, resistance to kinking, and can be connected to a blood vessel via an anastomosis or
inserted into the lumen of a blood vessel, as needed. In addition, the synthetic conduits 16 and
18 preferably exhibit the characteristics needed for tunneling (as necessary) and have luminal
surfaces that are resistant to thrombosis. As another example, the synthetic conduits 16 and 18
can have an exterior layer composed of a different material than the luminal layer. The synthetic
conduits 16 and 18 can also be coated with silicon to aid in removal from the body and avoid
latex allergies. In certain embodiments, the connection between the synthetic conduit 16 or 18
and the vein 29 or 30 is made using a conventional surgical anastomosis, using suture in a
running or divided fashion, henceforth described as an "anastomotic connection." An
anastomotic connection can also be made with surgical clips and other standard ways of making
an anastomosis.
         Referring to Figs. 1-3, the synthetic inflow conduit 16 has a first end 46 configured to
fluidly connect to a donating vein 29 or the right atrium 31 of the heart and a second end 48
connected to the inlet 38 of the pump 14. The donating vein 29 can include an antecubital vein,
basilic vein, brachial vein, axillary vein, subclavian vein, jugular vein, brachiocephalic vein,
superior vena cava, lesser saphenous vein, greater saphenous vein, femoral vein, common iliac
vein, external iliac vein, superior vena cava, inferior vena cava, or other veins capable of
providing sufficient blood flow to the pump for the purpose of causing persistent dilation of the
accepting peripheral vein. The synthetic outflow conduit 18 has a first end 52 configured to
fluidly connect to the peripheral accepting vein 30 and a second end 54 connected to the outlet
40 of the pump 14. The pump-conduit assembly 12 is configured to redirect blood from the
donating vein 29 to the peripheral accepting vein 30 in a manner that increases the blood speed
and WSS in the peripheral vein to the desired level for a period of time sufficient to cause a
persistent increase in the overall diameter and lumen diameter of the peripheral vein. In certain
                                               21

embodiments, a portion of the synthetic conduits 16, 18 may be extracorporeal to the patient 20.
Referring to Figs. 1 and 3, the first end 46 of the inflow conduit 16 and the first end 52 of the
outflow conduit 18 are configured for an anastomotic connection. As shown in Figs. lB and IC,
the first end 46 is fluidly connected to the internal jugular vein (which serves as the donating
vein 29) via an anastomotic connection and the first end 52 of the outflow conduit 18 is fluidly
connected to the cephalic vein (which serves as the peripheral accepting vein 30) via an
anastomotic connection.
         Referring to Figs. 2A-2C, the first end 46 of the synthetic inflow conduit 16 is configured
as a catheter. The fluid connection between the synthetic inflow conduit 16 and the venous
system is made by positioning the tip of the catheter portion 50 of the synthetic inflow conduit
into the superior vena cava 27, henceforth described as a "catheter connection". When a catheter
connection is made with a donating vein 29 (in this case, the superior vena cava 27), the catheter
portion 50 of the synthetic inflow conduit 46 may enter the venous system at any location where
the vein lumen diameter is adequate to accept the catheter portion 50. The tip of the catheter
portion 50 may be placed at any location where sufficient blood can be drawn into the catheter to
provide the desired blood flow 34 to the accepting vein 30. Preferred locations for the tip of the
catheter portion 50 include, but are not limited to a brachiocephalic vein, the superior vena cava
27, and the right atrium 31. In the embodiment illustrated in Figs. 2B-2C, the system 10 draws
deoxygenated blood from the superior vena cava 27 of the patient 20 and redirects it to the
cephalic vein 30 in the arm 24.
         In another embodiment shown in Fig. 3, the system 10 redirects deoxygenated venous
blood from donating vein 29 (in this case, the more central portion of the greater saphenous vein)
to the peripheral accepting vein 30 (in this case, a more peripheral portion of the greater
saphenous vein) in the leg 26 thereby increasing the speed of blood and WSS in the accepting
vein to the desired level and for a period of time sufficient to cause a persistent increase in the
lumen diameter and overall diameter of the accepting greater saphenous vein 30. In the
embodiment shown in Fig. 3, the inflow conduit 16 is fluidly connected to a greater saphenous
vein 29 of the patient 20 via an anastomotic connection. In some embodiments, the blood is
pumped into the accepting vein with a pulsatility that is reduced when compared with the
pulsatility of blood in a peripheral artery. For example, the mean pulse pressure in the accepting
                                               22

vein adjacent to the connection with the outflow conduit is < 40 mmHg, < 30 mmHg, < 20
mmHg, < 10 mmHg, or preferably < 5 mmHg with the pump operating. The pumping of blood
into the peripheral vein and the increase in blood speed and WSS continues for a period of time
sufficient to cause a persistent increase in the overall diameter and lumen diameter of the
accepting greater saphenous vein segment 30 to facilitate extraction and autotransplantation as
part of a surgery to create a cardiac or peripheral bypass graft, or other surgery that requires
autotransplantation of a portion of a patient's vein.
         Referring to Fig. 4A, in another embodiment, an extracorporeal pump 114 is attached to
two specialized catheters, an inflow catheter 55, and an outflow catheter 56 to form a catheter
pump assembly 13. The pump 114 draws deoxygenated blood into the lumen of the inflow
catheter 55 from the donating vein 29 and then discharges the blood from the outflow catheter 56
and into the lumen of the peripheral accepting vein 30, thereby increasing the speed of blood and
the WSS in the peripheral accepting vein 30.
         Figs. 4A and 4B illustrate another embodiment of the system 10. The pump-catheter
assembly 13 is configured to increase the blood speed and WSS in vein segment d. The inflow
catheter 55 and the outflow catheter 56 may optionally be joined in all or some portions (such as
with a double lumen catheter) and can be percutaneously inserted into the lumen of the accepting
peripheral vein 30, obviating the need for an invasive surgical procedure. For this embodiment,
a portion of the catheter can be tunneled subcutaneously before exiting the skin in order to
reduce the risk of infection. Extracorporeal portions of the catheters 119 and 120 and the
extracorporeal pump 114 can be affixed to the body, connected to a power source, and operated
in a manner that increases the speed of the blood 34 and WSS in segment d of the accepting
peripheral vein 30 for a period of time sufficient to cause a persistent increase the overall
diameter and lumen diameter of segment d of the accepting peripheral vein 30. Once the desired
amount of diameter enlargement has occurred in segment d of the accepting peripheral vein 30,
the pump-catheter assembly 12 is removed and a surgical procedure can be performed to create a
hemodialysis access site or bypass graft using at least a portion of the enlarged segment d of the
accepting peripheral vein 30, either at the same time or in a subsequent operation.
         Referring to Figs. 5A and 5B, a system 10 to increase the overall diameter of veins is
illustrated as used for a patient 20. The system 10 removes oxygenated arterial blood from a
                                               23

patient's peripheral artery 221 and redirects that blood into the accepting peripheral vein 30 and
is configured and operated to increase the blood speed and WSS in the accepting peripheral vein
30 for a period of time sufficient to cause a persistent increase in the diameter of the accepting
peripheral vein 30 in, for example, an arm 24 or a leg 26. An embodiment of a system 10 in
which a pump 214 is implanted in the arm 24 is illustrated. The pump 214 has an inlet 216
connected to an artery 221 in the arm 24 via anastomotic connection. The pump 214 also has an
outlet 218 connected to the peripheral vein 30 via an anastomotic connection. The pump 214 is
controlled and powered by the control unit 58. In operation, the pump 214 withdraws blood
from the artery 221 and pumps the blood into the peripheral vein 30. This embodiment can
allow the performance of a surgical procedure that avoids the need for extended synthetic
conduits and increases blood speed and WSS in both the peripheral vein 30 and the peripheral
artery 221 resulting in, if operated for a sufficient period of time, simultaneous dilation of the
vein 30 and the artery 221. Specifically, the pump 214 is implanted in the forearm of the patient
20. Once the desired amount of diameter enlargement has occurred in the accepting peripheral
vein 30, the pump 214 can be removed and a surgical procedure can be performed to create a
hemodialysis access site or bypass graft using at least a portion the enlarged artery 221 or vein
30, either at that time or during a subsequent operation.
        In various embodiments, oxygenated arterial blood may be drawn from a donating artery.
Donating arteries may include, but are not limited to, a radial artery, ulnar artery, interosseous
artery, brachial artery, anterior tibial artery, posterior tibial artery, peroneal artery, popliteal
artery, profunda artery, superficial femoral artery, or femoral artery.
        Referring to Fig. 6, a schematic of an embodiment of the system 10 is illustrated. The
control unit 58 is connected to the pump 14 and is configured to control the speed of the pump
14 and collect information on the function of the pump 14. The control unit 58 may be
implanted in the patient 20, may remain external to the patient 20, or may have implanted and
external portions. A power source is embodied in a power unit 60 and is connected to the control
unit 58 and the pump 14. The power unit 60 provides energy to the pump 14 and the control unit
58 for routine operation. The power unit 60 may be implanted in the patient 20, may remain
external to the patient 20, or may have implanted and external portions. The power unit 60 may
include a battery 61. The battery 61 is preferably rechargeable and is recharged via a connector
                                                 24

69 to an AC source. Such rechargeable batteries could also be recharged using lead wires or via
transcutaneous energy transmission. Optionally, the connector 69 may deliver electrical power
to the power unit 60 without the aid of the battery 61. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill
in the art from this disclosure that the control unit 58 can be configured to utilize alternative
power-control systems.
        Sensors 66 and 67 may be incorporated into the synthetic conduits 17 and 18, the pump
14, or the control unit 58. The sensors 66 and 67 are connected to the control unit 58 via cable
68 or can wirelessly communicate with the control unit 58. The sensors 66 and 67 can monitor
blood flow, blood speed, intraluminal pressure, and resistance to flow and may send signals to
the control unit 58 to alter pump speed. For example, as the peripheral vein 30 receiving the
pumped blood dilates, blood speed in the vein decreases, along with resistance to blood flow 34
from the outflow conduit 18. In order to maintain the desired blood speed and WSS, the pump
speed must be adjusted as the peripheral vein 30 dilates over time. The sensors 66 and 67 may
sense blood speed in the peripheral vein 30 or resistance to blood flow and then signal the
control unit 58 which then increases the speed of the pump 14 accordingly. Thus, the present
invention advantageously provides a monitoring system, constituted by the control unit 58 and
sensors 66 and 67, to adjust the pump speed to maintain the desired blood speed and WSS in the
accepting peripheral vein 30 as it dilates over time. Alternatively, the control unit may rely on a
measurement, including an internal measurement of the electrical current to the motor 44 as a
basis for estimating blood flow, blood speed, intraluminal pressure, or resistance to flow, thus
obviating the need for sensors 66 and 67. The control unit 58 may also include manual controls
to adjust pump speed or other pumping parameters.
        The control unit 58 is operatively connected to the pump-conduit assembly 12.
Specifically, the control unit 58 is operatively connected to the pump 14 by one or more cables
62. Utilizing the power unit 60, the control unit 58 preferably supplies pump motor control
current, such as pulse width modulated motor control current to the pump 14 via cable 62. The
control unit 58 can also receive feedback or other signals from the pump 14. The control unit 58
further includes a communication unit 64 that is utilized to collect data and communicate the
data, via telemetric transmission, for example. Furthermore, the communication unit 64 is
                                               25

configured to receive instructions or data for reprogramming the control unit 58. Therefore, the
communication unit 64 is configured to receive instructions or data for controlling the pump 14.
         The present invention advantageously provides a monitoring system, constituted by the
control unit 58 and sensors 66 and 67, to adjust the operation of the pump to maintain the desired
blood speed and WSS in the accepting peripheral vein 30 as it dilates over time.
         Preferably, the pump 14 is configured to provide a blood flow 34 in a range from about
50 - 1500 mL/min, for example, and increase the WSS in an accepting peripheral vein to a range
of between 0.76 Pa and 23 Pa, preferably to a range between 2.5 Pa and 7.5 Pa. The pump 14 is
configured to maintain the desired level of blood flow and WSS in the accepting peripheral vein
30 for a period of about 7 - 84 days, for example, and preferably about 14 - 42 days, for example.
In certain situations where a large amount of vein dilation is desired or where vein dilation
occurs slowly, the pump 14 is configured to maintain the desired level of blood flow and WSS in
the accepting peripheral vein 30 for longer than 42 days.
         The pump-conduit assembly 12 can be implanted on the right side of the patient 20, or
can be implanted on the left side, as need be. The lengths of the conduits 16 and 18 can be
adjusted for the desired placement. Specifically for Figs. lB and IC, the first end 46 of the
inflow conduit 16 is fluidly connected to the location 29 in the right internal jugular vein 29 and
the first end 52 of the outflow conduit 18 is fluidly connected to the cephalic vein 30 in the right
forearm. Specifically for Figs. 2B and 2C, the first end 46 of the inflow conduit 16 is fluidly
connected to the location 29 in the superior vena cava 27 and the first end 52 of the outflow
conduit 18 is fluidly connected to the cephalic vein 30 in the right forearm 24. After connection,
pumping is started. That is, the control unit 58 begins to operate the motor 44. The pump 14
pumps blood 34 through the outlet conduit 18 and into the peripheral vein 30. The control unit
58 adjusts pumping over the course of time by utilizing data provided by the sensors 66 and 67.
Figs. 1-4 illustrate examples in which the system 10 pumps deoxygenated blood. Fig 5
illustrates an example in which the system 10 pumps oxygenated blood. In some embodiments,
the blood is pumped into the accepting vein with a pulsatility that is reduced when compared
with the pulsatility of blood in a peripheral artery. For example, the mean pulse pressure in the
accepting vein is < 40 mmHg, < 30 mmHg, < 20 mmHg, < 10 mmHg, or preferably < 5 mmHg
with the pump operating and delivering blood into the peripheral vein. In other embodiments,
                                              26

the blood is pumped into the accepting vein with a pulsatility that is equal to or increased when
compared with the pulsatility of blood in a peripheral artery. For these embodiments, the mean
pulse pressure in the accepting vein adjacent to the connection with the outflow conduit is > 40
mmHg with the pump operating.
        In one specific embodiment illustrated in Figs. lB and IC, the donating vein 29 is a
jugular vein 21, preferentially an internal jugular vein 21. The internal jugular vein 21 is
particularly useful as a donating vein 29 due to the absence of valves between the internal jugular
vein 21 and the right atrium 31, which would allow the synthetic inflow conduit 16 to be able to
draw a large volume of deoxygenated blood per unit time. The inflow conduit 18 is fluidly
connected to the internal jugular vein 21 of the patient 20. Deoxygenated blood is drawn from
the internal jugular vein 21 and pumped into the peripheral accepting vein 30 in the arm 24 or leg
26 resulting in an increase in the speed of blood 34 and WSS in the peripheral accepting vein. In
 some embodiments, the blood is pumped into the accepting vein with a pulsatility that is reduced
when compared with the pulsatility of blood in a peripheral artery. For example, the mean pulse
pressure in the accepting vein adjacent to the connection with the outflow conduit is < 40 mmHg,
 < 30 mmHg, < 20 mmHg, < 10 mmHg, or preferably < 5 mmHg with the pump operating.
        As noted previously, Fig. 5B illustrates an example in which the system 10 draws
oxygenated blood. The inflow conduit 216 is fluidly connected to the radial artery 221 of the
patient 20 and the outflow conduit 218 is fluidly connected to the cephalic vein, both using an
anastomotic connection. Thus, oxygenated blood is drawn from the radial artery 221 and
pumped into the cephalic vein 30 in the arm 24 in a manner that results in an increased blood
 speed and WSS in the cephalic vein for a sufficient period of time to cause a persistent increase
in the overall diameter and lumen diameter of the accepting peripheral vein. In some
embodiments, the blood is pumped into the accepting vein with a pulsatility that is reduced when
compared with the pulsatility of blood in a peripheral artery. For example, the mean pulse
pressure in the accepting vein adjacent to the connection with the outflow conduit is < 40 mmHg,
 < 30 mmHg, < 20 mmHg, < 10 mmHg, or preferably < 5 mmHg with the pump operating and
delivering blood into the peripheral accepting vein.
        Referring to Figs. 7-9, various embodiments of the method 100 increase the overall
diameter and the lumen diameter of the peripheral vein 30. As shown in Fig. 7, a physician or
                                              27

surgeon performs a procedure to access a vein or artery and connects a pump to establish fluid
communication with a vein carrying deoxygenated blood at step 101. At step 102, the pump is
connected to a peripheral vein. In this embodiment, the pump-conduit assembly 12 is preferably
implanted in the neck, chest and the arm 24 of the patient 20. In another embodiment, wherein
the peripheral vein 30 is the saphenous vein 36, the pump-conduit assembly 12 is implanted in
the leg 26. In one example, the physician fluidly connects the first end 46 of the pump-conduit
assembly 12 to the donating vein 29 and the second end of the pump-conduit assembly 12 to the
peripheral accepting vein 30, utilizing a tunneling procedure (as necessary) to connect the two
locations subcutaneously. At step 103, the deoxygenated blood is pumped into the peripheral
accepting vein. At step 104, the pumping continues for a period of time, while the physician
waits for the peripheral accepting vein to dilate. In one embodiment, after the pump is turned on
to start the pumping of deoxygenated blood, the skin incisions are closed, as necessary.
         In another embodiment, portions of the synthetic conduits 16 and 18 and/or the pump 14
are extracorporeally located. In this embodiment, the pump 14 is then started and controlled via
the control unit 58 to pump the deoxygenated blood through the pump-conduit assembly 12 and
into the peripheral accepting vein 30 in a manner that increases the blood speed and WSS in the
peripheral vein 30. The pumping process is monitored periodically and the control unit 58 is
used to adjust the pump 14, in response to changes in the peripheral accepting vein 30. With
periodic adjustments, as necessary, the pump continues to operate for an amount of time
sufficient to result in the persistent dilation of the overall diameter and lumen diameter of the
peripheral vein 30. In a subsequent procedure, the pump-conduit assembly 12 is disconnected
and removed at step 105. At step 106, the persistently dilated peripheral vein 30 is used to create
an AVF, AVG, or bypass graft.
         In another embodiment of the method 100, as shown in Fig. 8, the physician or surgeon
inserts one or more catheter portions 50 of the pump-catheter assembly into the venous system
and positions them in a donating vessel and a peripheral vein 30 at step 107. At step 108, the
pump is operated to pump deoxygenated blood into the deoxygenated blood. The physician then
waits for the peripheral vessel to dilate at step 109. The pump-catheter assembly is removed and
the persistently dilated vein is used to create an AVF, AVG, or bypass graft, at steps 110 and
111, respectively.
                                                28

        Fig. 9 shows, yet another embodiment of the method 100. At step 112, a physician or
surgeon performs a procedure to access a vein and connects a pump to establish fluid
communication with a peripheral vein. At step 113, the pump is connected to a peripheral artery.
The pump is operated, at step 114 to pump oxygenated blood from the peripheral artery to the
peripheral vein. At step 115, the pumping continues for a period of time, while the physician
waits for the peripheral vein dilate. At step 116, the pump is removed and at step 117, the
persistently dilated vein is used to create an AVF, AVG, or bypass graft.
        In various embodiments, the method 100 and/or the system 10 may be used to in periodic
and/or intermittent sessions, as opposed to continuous treatment. Typically, hemodialysis
treatments that may last from 3 to 5 hours are given in a dialysis facility up to 3 times a week.
Therefore, various embodiments of the system 10 and method 100 may be used to provide blood
pumping treatments on a similar schedule over a 4 to 6 week period. The treatments may be
performed in any suitable location, including in an outpatient setting.
        In one embodiment, the blood pumping treatment is done intermittently in conjunction
with hemodialysis treatments. In this embodiment, a low-flow pump, a standard in-dwelling
hemodialysis catheter functioning as an inflow catheter, and a minimally traumatic needle or
catheter placed in the peripheral vein to function as an outflow catheter may be used. A number
of continuous flow blood pumps operated from a bedside console [e.g. catheter-based VADs and
pediatric cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO)
pumps] may be easily adapted for use with the method 100.
        In various embodiments where the blood pumping occurs through periodic pumping
sessions, the access to the blood vessels may also occur through one or more ports or surgically
created access sites. By way of example and not limitation, the access may be achieved through
a needle, a peripherally inserted central catheter, a tunneled catheter, a non-tunneled catheter,
and/or a subcutaneous implantable port.
        In another embodiment of the system 10, a low-flow pump is used to increase WSS and
blood speed in a blood vessel. The low-flow pump has an inlet conduit fluidly connected to a
blood vessel and an outlet conduit fluidly connected to a vein pumps blood from the blood vessel
to the vein for a period between about 7 days and 84 day. The low-flow pump pumps blood such
that the wall shear stress of the vein ranges between about 0.076 Pa to about 23 Pa. The low
                                              29

flow pump also includes an adjustment device. The adjustment device may be in communication
with a software-based automatic adjustment system or the adjustment device may have manual
controls. The inlet conduit and the outlet conduit may range in length from about 10 centimeters
to about 107 centimeters.
        The present invention also relates to a method of assembling and operating a blood pump
system, including various embodiments of the pump-conduit system 10. The method includes
attaching a first conduit in fluid communication with the pump-conduit system 10 to an artery
and attaching a second conduit in fluid communication with the pump-conduit system to a vein.
The pump-conduit system 10 is then activated to pump blood between the artery and the vein.
        In understanding the scope of the present invention, the term "comprising" and its
derivatives, as used herein, are intended to be open ended terms that specify the presence of the
stated features, elements, components, groups, integers, and/or steps, but do not exclude the
presence of other unstated features, elements, components, groups, integers and/or steps. The
foregoing also applies to words having similar meanings such as the terms, "including",
"having", and their derivatives. The terms of degree such as "substantially", "about" and
"approximate" as used herein mean a reasonable amount of deviation of the modified term such
that the end result is not significantly changed. For example, these terms can be construed as
including a deviation of at least 5% of the modified term if this deviation would not negate the
meaning of the word it modifies.
        While only selected embodiments have been chosen to illustrate the present invention, it
will be apparent to those skilled in the art from this disclosure that various changes and
modifications can be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in
the appended claims. For example, the size, shape, location, or orientation of the various
components can be changed as needed and/or desired. Components that are shown directly
connected or contacting each other can have intermediate structures disposed between them. The
functions of one element can be performed by two, and vice versa. The structures and functions
of one embodiment can be adopted in another embodiment. It is not necessary for all advantages
to be present in a particular embodiment at the same time. Every feature that is unique from the
prior art, alone or in combination with other features, also should be considered a separate
description of further inventions by the applicant, including the structural and/or functional
                                               30

concepts embodied by such features. Thus, the foregoing descriptions of the embodiments
according to the present invention are provided for illustration only, and not for limiting the
invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.
        Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in this
specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the
stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of one or more
other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereto.
                                             31

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.       A system for persistently increasing the overall diameter and lumen diameter of a
peripheral vein, wherein the system is configured to increase the speed of blood in the peripheral
vein, the system comprising:
         a pump configured to pump blood;
         a first conduit fluidly coupled to the pump and configured to make a fluid connection
         with a donating vessel and convey blood from the donating vessel to the pump;
         a second conduit fluidly coupled to the pump and configured to make a fluid connection
         to the peripheral vein and convey blood from the pump to the peripheral vein, wherein
         the pump and the first and second conduits form a pump-conduit assembly; and
         a control unit in communication with the pump and configured to cause the pump to
         pump blood in a manner such that a wall shear stress in the peripheral vein is greater than
         or equal to 0.76 Pa until a persistent increase in the overall diameter of the peripheral
         vein occurs;
         wherein the control unit and the pump-conduit assembly are configured to pump blood in
         a manner such that a mean pulse pressure in the second conduit fluidly connected to the
         peripheral vein is less than 20 mmHg.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the pump is a rotary blood pump.
3. The system of claims 1 or 2, wherein the pump is a centrifugal pump.
4. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pump comprises a
contact bearing system.
5. The system according to claim 4, wherein the pump is configured with one contact bearing, or
two contact bearings.
6. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pump comprises an
inlet in fluid communication with the first conduit, the first conduit extending away from the
                                                32

inlet, and an outlet in fluid communication with the second conduit, the second conduit
extending away from the outlet.
7. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pump is configured to
remain extracorporeal to the patient.
8. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the pump is configured to be
implanted in the patient.
9. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pump is driven by an
electric motor.
10. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the system further
comprises a power supply coupled to at least one of the control unit or pump.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the power supply comprises a battery.
12. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the control unit is further
configured to provide power to the pump.
13. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least a portion of the
first conduit is configured for placement within a lumen of the donating vessel.
14. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least a portion of the
first conduit is configured for making a surgical anastomosis with the donating vessel.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the portion of the first conduit configured for making a
surgical anastomosis with the peripheral vein comprises PTFE.
16. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first conduit
comprises polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene, polyurethane, or silicone.
17. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least a portion of the
second conduit is configured for placement within a lumen of the peripheral vein.
                                             33

18. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least a portion of the
second conduit is configured for making a surgical anastomosis with the peripheral vein.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the portion of the second conduit configured for making a
surgical anastomosis with the peripheral vein comprises PTFE.
20. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the second conduit
comprises polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene, polyurethane, or silicone.
21. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least one of the first
conduit and the second conduit has a length ranging between 10 centimeters and 107
centimeters.
22. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a combined length of the
first conduit and the second conduit is between 20 centimeters and 214 centimeters.
23. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a cuff that can
be affixed to a portion of the first conduit or the second conduit.
24. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the controller is
configured to cause the pump to operate so as to cause the overall diameter of the vein to be
persistently increased.
25. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the control unit and the
pump-conduit assembly are configured to pump blood in a manner such that a mean pulse
pressure in the second conduit fluidly connected to the peripheral vein is less than 10 mmHg, or
less than 5 mmHg.
26. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the control unit and the
pump-conduit assembly are configured to pump blood in a manner such that a mean pulse
pressure in the peripheral vein is less than 20 mmHg, less than 10 mm Hg, or less than 5 mmHg.
                                               34

27. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the control unit is
configured to cause the pump to pump blood at a rate between 50 ml/min and 1500 ml/min, or
between 100 ml/min and 1000 ml/min.
28. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the control unit is
configured to regulate the pump to pump blood such that the wall shear stress of the peripheral
vein ranges between 0.76 Pa and 23 Pa, or between 2.5 Pa and 7.5 Pa.
29. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the control unit is
configured to regulate the pump to pump blood such that the mean blood speed in the peripheral
vein ranges between 15 cm/s and 100 cm/s.
30. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the speed of the pump is
configured to be changed manually.
31. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising an adjustment device
in communication with the control unit and configured to adjust operational parameters of the
pump as provided to the pump by the control unit, the adjustment device selected from a group
including adjustment devices comprising software-based automatic adjustment systems and
manual control systems.
32. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the control unit is
configured to regulate the pump to pump blood from the donating vessel to the peripheral vein
for a period between 7 days and 84 days, or a period between 7 days and 42 days.
33. The system according to any one of claims 6 to 32 when claims 7 to 10, 12 to 14, 16 to 18
and 20 to 32 are dependent on claim 6, comprising at least one sensor that measures one or more
of:
     the blood flow in at least one of the first conduit, the inlet, the outlet, and the second
     conduit; and
     the blood speed in at least one of the first conduit, the inlet, the outlet, and the second
     conduit; and
                                               35

     the blood pressure in at least one of the first conduit, the inlet, the outlet, and the second
     conduit.
34. The system of claim 33, wherein the control unit is configured to receive data from the at
least one sensor at a communication unit and adjust a speed of the pump based upon the received
data to regulate at least one of:
     the blood flow in the first conduit, the second conduit, or the peripheral vein;
     the blood speed in at least one of the first conduit, the inlet, the outlet, and the second
     conduit; and
     the blood pressure in at least one of the first conduit, the inlet, the outlet, and the second
     conduit.
35. The system of claims 33 or 34, wherein the control unit is configured to receive data from
the at least one sensor at a communication unit and adjust a speed of the pump based upon the
received data to regulate wall shear stress in the peripheral vein.
36. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pump-conduit
assembly is configured for use in a human patient for up to 42 days, such configuration including
the use of a bearing system for a period of time up to 42 days.
37. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, configured such that
deoxygenated blood is conveyed through at least a portion of the pump-conduit assembly.
38. The system of claim 37 when appended to claim 6, wherein the pump-conduit assembly is
configured such that deoxygenated blood is conveyed through at least one of the first conduit, the
inlet, the pump, the outlet, or the second conduit.
39. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, configured such that oxygenated
blood is conveyed through at least a portion of the pump-conduit assembly.
40. The system of claim 39 when appended to claim 6, wherein the pump-conduit assembly is
configured such that oxygenated blood is conveyed through at least one of the first conduit, the
inlet, the pump, the outlet, or the second conduit.
                                               36

41. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the donating vessel is an
internal jugular vein, axillary vein, subclavian vein, brachiocephalic vein, superior vena cava,
femoral vein, iliac vein, inferior vena cava, right atrium, radial artery, ulnar artery, interosseous
artery, brachial artery, anterior tibial artery, posterior tibial artery, peroneal artery, popliteal
artery, profunda artery, superficial femoral artery, or femoral artery.
42. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the donating vessel is in
the arm, leg, chest, abdomen, or pelvis.
43. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the peripheral vein is a
cephalic vein, a radial vein, a median vein, an ulnar vein, an antecubital vein, a median cephalic
vein, a median basilic vein, a basilic vein, a brachial vein, a lesser saphenous vein, a greater
saphenous vein, or a femoral vein.
44. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the peripheral vein is a
vein in the arm or leg.
45. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the system is configured
to persistently increase the overall diameter and lumen diameter of the peripheral vein and
wherein at least a portion of the peripheral vein with the persistently increased overall diameter
and lumen diameter can be used to make an arteriovenous fistula, and arteriovenous graft, or a
bypass graft.
46. A use of the system according to any one of the preceding claims for increasing the overall
diameter and lumen diameter of a peripheral vein of a patient, wherein:
     one end of a pump-conduit assembly is configured for fluidly connecting to a donating
     vessel;
     another end of the pump-conduit assembly is configured for fluidly connecting to a
     peripheral vein; and
      the system is configured for pumping blood from the donating vessel into the peripheral
     vein at a flow rate and for a time period sufficient to result in a persistent increase in the
     overall diameter and lumen diameter of the peripheral vein; and
                                                 37

    after use of the system, the overall diameter and lumen diameter of the peripheral vein is
    increased.
47. A use of the system of any one of claims 1 to 45 for increasing the overall diameter and
lumen diameter of a peripheral vein of a patient, wherein:
    one end of a pump-conduit assembly is configured for fluidly connecting to a donating
    vessel;
    another end of the pump-conduit assembly is configured for fluidly connecting to a
    peripheral vein;
    the system is configured for pumping blood from the donating vessel into the peripheral vein
    at a flow rate and for a time period sufficient to result in a persistent increase in the overall
    diameter and lumen diameter of the peripheral vein; and
    after use of the system, at least a portion of the peripheral vein with the persistently
    increased overall diameter and lumen diameter is used to make an arteriovenous fistula, and
    arteriovenous graft, or a bypass graft.
48. A method of using a system for persistently increasing the overall diameter and lumen
diameter of a peripheral vein in a human patient, the method comprising the steps of:
    fluidly connecting one end of a pump-conduit assembly to a donating vessel;
    fluidly connecting another end of the pump-conduit assembly to a peripheral vein;
    pumping blood from the donating vessel into the peripheral vein in a manner wherein the
    pumping of blood results in an increased speed of blood in the peripheral vein, a mean pulse
    pressure less than 20 mmHg in a conduit of the pump-conduit assembly fluidly connected to
    the peripheral vein, and a wall shear stress in the peripheral vein of greater than or equal to
    0.76 Pa and for a period of time sufficient to result in a persistent increase in the overall
    diameter of the peripheral vein.
49. A method of using a system for creating an arteriovenous fistula, an arteriovenous graft, or a
bypass graft in a human patient, the method comprising the steps of:
    fluidly connecting one end of a pump-conduit assembly to a donating vessel;
    fluidly connecting another end of the pump-conduit assembly to a peripheral vein;
                                              38

     pumping blood from the donating vessel into the peripheral vein in a manner wherein the
     pumping of blood results in an increased speed of blood in the peripheral vein, a mean pulse
     pressure less than 20 mmHg in a conduit of the pump-conduit assembly fluidly connected to
     the peripheral vein, and a wall shear stress in the peripheral vein of greater than or equal to
     0.76 Pa and for a period of time sufficient to result in a persistent increase in the overall
     diameter of the peripheral vein; and
     creating an arteriovenous fistula, arteriovenous graft, or bypass graft in the patient using at
     least a portion of the peripheral vein with the persistently increased overall diameter.
50. The method of claims 48 or 49, wherein the pump is a rotary blood pump.
51. The method of any one of claims 48 to 50, wherein the pump is a centrifugal pump.
52. The method of any one of claims 48 to 51, wherein the pump comprises a contact bearing
system.
53. The method of claim 52, wherein the pump is configured with one contact bearing, or two
contact bearings.
54. The method of any one of claims 48 to 53, wherein the pump comprises an inlet in fluid
communication with the first conduit, the first conduit extending away from the inlet, and an
outlet in fluid communication with the second conduit, the second conduit extending away from
the outlet.
55. The method of any one of claims 48 to 54, wherein the pump remains extracorporeal to the
patient.
56. The method of any one of claims 48 to 54, wherein the pump is implanted in the patient.
57. The method of any one of claims 48 to 56, wherein the pump is driven by an electric motor.
58. The method of any one of claims 48 to 57, wherein the system further comprises a power
supply coupled to at least one of the control unit or pump.
                                               39

59. The method of claim 58, wherein the power supply comprises a battery.
60. The method of any one of claims 48 to 59, wherein the control unit provides power to the
pump.
61. The method of any one of claims 48 to 60, wherein at least a portion of the first conduit is
placed within a lumen of the donating vessel.
62. The method of any one of claims 48 to 61, wherein at least a portion of the first conduit is
fluidly connected to the donating vessel by making a surgical anastomosis between the first
conduit and the donating vessel.
63. The method of claim 62, wherein the portion of the first conduit connected to the donating
vessel by making a surgical anastomosis comprises PTFE.
64. The method of any one of claims 48 to 63, wherein the first conduit comprises polyvinyl
chloride, polyethylene, polyurethane, or silicone.
65. The method of any one of claims 48 to 64, wherein at least a portion of the second conduit is
placed within a lumen of the peripheral vein.
66. The method of any one of claims 48 to 65, wherein at least a portion of the second conduit is
fluidly connected to the peripheral vein by making a surgical anastomosis between the second
conduit and the peripheral vein.
67. The method of claim 66, wherein the portion of the second conduit connected to the
peripheral vein by making a surgical anastomosis comprises PTFE
68. The method of any one of claims 48 to 67, wherein the second conduit comprises polyvinyl
chloride, polyethylene, polyurethane, or silicone.
69. The method of any one of claims 48 to 68, wherein at least one of the first conduit and the
second conduit has a length ranging between 10 centimeters and 107 centimeters.
                                             40

70. The method of any one of claims 48 to 69, wherein a combined length of the first conduit
and the second conduit is between 20 centimeters and 214 centimeters.
71. The method of any one of claims 48 to 70, further comprising affixing a cuff to a portion of
the first conduit or the second conduit.
72. The method of any one of claims 48 to 71, wherein the controller causes the pump to operate
so as to cause the overall diameter of the vein to be persistently increased.
73. The method of any one of claims 48 to 72, wherein, when the system is in operation, the
mean pulse pressure in the second conduit fluidly connected to the peripheral vein is less than 10
mmHg, or less than 5 mmHg.
74. The method of any one of claims 48 to 73, wherein, when the system is in operation, the
mean pulse pressure in the peripheral vein is less than 20 mmHg, less than 10 mm Hg, or less
than 5 mmHg.
75. The method of any one of claims 48 to 74, wherein, when the system is in operation, blood
is pumped at a rate between 50 ml/min and 1500 ml/min, or between 100 ml/min and 1000
ml/min.
76. The method of any one of claims 48 to 75, wherein, when the system is in operation, the
wall shear stress of the peripheral vein ranges between 0.76 Pa and 23 Pa, or between 2.5 Pa and
7.5 Pa.
77. The method of any one of claims 48 to 76, wherein, when the system is in operation, the
mean blood speed in the peripheral vein ranges between 15 cm/s and 100 cm/s.
78. The method of any one of claims 48 to 77, wherein blood is pumped through the pump
conduit assembly for a distance of between 20 cm and 200 cm.
79. The method of any one of claims 48 to 78, wherein the speed of the pump is controlled by a
control unit.
                                              41

80. The method of any one of claims 48 to 79, wherein the speed of the pump is changed
manually.
81. The method of any one of claims 48 to79, wherein the speed of the pump is changed by an
adjustment device in communication with the control unit.
82. The method of claim 81, wherein the adjustment device comprises a manual adjustment
system.
83. The method of claim 81, wherein the adjustment device comprises a software-based
automatic adjustment system.
84. The method of any one of claims 54 to 83 when claims 55 to 58, 60 to 62, 64 to 66 and 68 to
81 are appended to claim 54, where at least one sensor measures one or more of:
     the blood flow in at least one of the first conduit, the inlet, the outlet, and the second
     conduit;
     the blood speed in at least one of the first conduit, the inlet, the outlet, and the second
     conduit; and
     the blood pressure in at least one of the first conduit, the inlet, the outlet, and the second
     conduit.
85. The method of claim 84, wherein the control unit receives data from the at least one sensor
at a communication unit and adjusts a speed of the pump based upon the received data to
regulate at least one of:
     the blood flow in the first conduit, the second conduit, or the peripheral vein;
     the blood speed in at least one of the first conduit, the inlet, the outlet, and the second
     conduit; and
     the blood pressure in at least one of the first conduit, the inlet, the outlet, and the second
     conduit.
                                               42

86. The method of claims 84 or 85, wherein the control unit receives data from the at least one
sensor at a communication unit and adjusts a speed of the pump based upon the received data to
regulate wall shear stress in the peripheral vein.
87. The method of any one of claims 48 to 86, wherein deoxygenated blood is conveyed through
at least a portion of the pump-conduit assembly.
88. The method of any one of claims 54 to 87 when claims 55 to 58, 60 to 62, 64 to 66, 68 to 81
and 87 are appended to claim 54, wherein deoxygenated blood is conveyed through at least one
of the first conduit, the inlet, the pump, the outlet, or the second conduit.
89. The method of any one of claims 48 to 88, wherein oxygenated blood is conveyed through at
least a portion of the pump-conduit assembly.
90. The method of any one of claims 54 to 89 when claims 55 to 58, 60 to 62, 64 to 66, 68 to 81,
87 and 89 are appended to claim 54, wherein oxygenated blood is conveyed through at least one
of the first conduit, the inlet, the pump, the outlet, or the second conduit.
91. The method of any one of claims 48 to 90, wherein the donating vessel is an internal jugular
vein, axillary vein, subclavian vein, brachiocephalic vein, superior vena cava, femoral vein, iliac
vein, inferior vena cava, right atrium, radial artery, ulnar artery, interosseous artery, brachial
artery, anterior tibial artery, posterior tibial artery, peroneal artery, popliteal artery, profunda
artery, superficial femoral artery, or femoral artery.
92. The method of any one of claims 48 to 91, wherein the donating vessel is an artery and,
when the system is in operation, at least a portion of the blood in the pump conduit assembly is
oxygenated.
93. The method of any one of claims 48 to 92, wherein the donating vessel is in the arm, leg,
chest, abdomen, or pelvis.
94. The method of any one of claims 48 to 93, wherein the peripheral vein is a cephalic vein, a
radial vein, a median vein, an ulnar vein, an antecubital vein, a median cephalic vein, a median
                                                 43

basilic vein, a basilic vein, a brachial vein, a lesser saphenous vein, a greater saphenous vein, or a
femoral vein.
95. The method of any one of claims 48 to 94, wherein the peripheral vein is a vein in the arm or
leg.
96. The method of any one of claims 48 to 95, further comprising:
     pumping blood for at least 7 days;
     determining the lumen diameter of the peripheral vein and the blood flow rate through the
     peripheral vein; and
     changing a speed of a pump portion of the pump-conduit assembly in order to maintain a
     desired wall shear stress in the peripheral vein.
97. The method of any one of claims 48 to 96, wherein blood is pumped from the donating
vessel to the peripheral vein for a period between 7 days and 84 days, or a period between 7 days
and 42 days.
98. The method of any one of claims 48 to 97, wherein the persistently increased overall
diameter of the peripheral vein is at least 2.5 mm or at least 4.0 mm.
99. The method of any one of claims 48 to 98, wherein the human patient has kidney disease.
100. The method of any one of claims 48 to 99, wherein the human patient is in need of an
arteriovenous fistula or arteriovenous graft to provide vascular access.
101. The method of any one of claims 48 to 98, wherein the human patient has an
atherosclerotic blockage of an artery and is in need of a bypass graft.
102. The method of any one of claims 48 to 99 and 101, wherein the human patient has an
atherosclerotic blockage of a cardiac artery and is in need of a cardiac bypass graft.
                                                44

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
