                                          11
ABSTRACT
An animal feeder and/or drinker comprising: a housing comprising a frame with
upstanding walls defining a hollow internal space; one or more removable containers
for receiving food or water, said containers being adapted to be positioned in the
hollow internal space of the housing, said containers comprising edge portions for
engagement with said frame; a cover coupled to the housing, said cover being
operable to be pivoted between an open and closed position wherein in an open
position food or water contained in one or more of the removable containers is
accessible to an animal desirous of food and water and wherein in a closed position,
food or water contained in one or more of the removable containers is not accessible
to the animal; a treadle coupled to the cover, said treadle being adapted to be tread
upon by the animal desirous of food or water; and an actuating arrangement coupled
to the treadle and the cover for actuating the opening of the cover such that, upon
being tread, movement of the treadle results in the cover being position in an open
position.

   120
                              10
122    100
~      100
 120                    23
         160
  120               110    12      '
            140
                                      -162
                                      150
                              152
                                  160
                FIGURE 1

                                              1
                  ANIMAL-ACTUATED FEEDER AND/OR DRINKER
TECHNICAL FIELD
The present invention relates to animal feeders and/or drinkers.
BACKGROUND
Any references to methods, apparatus or documents of the prior art are not to be taken
as constituting any evidence or admission that they formed, or form part of the
common general knowledge.
Animals and birds such as chicken prefer dry food that is not stale and moist food that
has not dried out. Therefore, it is desirable to use a feeder that does not expose the
food for prolonged periods. This poses a problem for most feeding dishes and other
exposed feeders. Being exposed, the food becomes stale or dried out and is not
consumed. Such uneaten food is typically discarded, representing an undesirable
expense to the owner and a loss of nutrition to the animal.
Another problem associated with feeding animals and birds relates to using different
apparatus for feeding and hydrating animals. By way of example, separate drinker are
typically provided for hydrating animals and birds. As a result, it can be difficult to
provide separate feeders and drinkers.
Yet another problem with animal feeders and drinkers, particularly larger feeder and
drinkers is that they can be difficult to clean. Additionally, a wide variety of creatures
find animal foods desirable. Some of the most bothersome are birds, toads, rabbits,
squirrels, rats, mice, and other small vertebrates. Such creatures may spoil the food,

                                            2
scatter the food, and soil the food and nearby areas with droppings. The persistent
efforts of these creatures to steal animal food may pose a loss of food and a source
for the spread of disease.
In view of the above, it is desirable to provide an animal feeder or drinker that
addresses some of the shortcomings of the prior art.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
In one aspect, the invention provides an animal feeder and/or drinker comprising:
               a housing comprising a frame with upstanding walls defining a hollow
internal space;
               one or more removable containers for receiving food or liquid, said
containers being adapted to be positioned in the hollow internal space of the housing,
said containers comprising edge portions for engagement with said frame;
               a cover coupled to the housing, said cover being operable to be pivoted
between an open and closed position wherein in an open position food or liquid
contained in one or more of the removable containers is accessible to an animal
desirous of food and liquid and wherein in a closed position, food or liquid contained
in one or more of the removable containers is not accessible to the animal;
               a treadle coupled to the cover, said treadle being adapted to be tread
upon by the animal desirous of food or liquid; and
               an actuating arrangement coupled to the treadle and the cover for
actuating the opening of the cover such that, upon being tread, movement of the
treadle results in the cover being positioned in an open position.

                                            3
In an embodiment, the housing comprises two pairs of opposed and spaced apart
upstanding walls defining a cubical shaped hollow internal space and wherein the
frame further comprises a plurality of spaced apart frame members extending in
between a first pair of upstanding walls, said frame members being adapted to engage
and support the removable containers positioned thereon.
In an embodiment, said container comprises an upwardly positioned edge portion
defining the opening of the container and downwardly dependent container walls
forming a hollow food receiving cavity to receive food or liquid therein.
In an embodiment, the edge portion extends radially and outwardly relative to the
hollow food receiving cavity such that an underside of the edge portion engages the
frame during use.
In an embodiment, the animal feeder comprises a plurality of removable containers
positioned in a spaced apart arrangement in the casing.
In an embodiment, the animal feeder or drinker further comprises a base comprising
feet portions for being positioned on a supporting surface and upwardly extending leg
portions for supporting the housing in a raised configuration relative to the supporting
surface.
In an embodiment, the actuating arrangement comprises a treadle arm extending
between two ends wherein a first end of the treadle arm is linked to the treadle and a
second end of the treadle arm is linked to a transversely disposed actuating arm, said
actuating arm being coupled to the cover whereby downward movement of the treadle
by application of force by the animal causes upward movement of the treadle arm and
the linked actuating arm to open the cover and wherein removal of the force results in
closing of the cover.

                                           4
In an embodiment, two of said actuating arrangements, each of said actuating
arrangements being positioned at opposed ends of the housing.
In an embodiment, one or more of the containers is formed from a transparent or
translucent material.
In an embodiment, the containers comprise visual indicia for indicating volume of food
or liquid in each container.
In an embodiment, a locking arrangement to prevent opening of the cover by treading
of the animal on the treadle.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be discerned
from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information for those
skilled in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be
regarded as limiting the scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any way.
The Detailed Description will make reference to a number of drawings as follows:
Figure 1 illustrates a perspective view of an animal feeder and drinker 100 in
accordance with an embodiment. Removable containers 120 are shown separately.
Figure 2 illustrates the animal feeder and drinker 100 in a first in-use configuration
(open position).
Figure 3 illustrates the animal feeder and drinker 100 in a second in-use configuration
(closed position).

                                            5
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
In accordance with a preferred embodiment, Figures 1 to 3 illustrate an animal
actuated feeder and drinker 100. It will be understood that the feeder and drinker 100
combination may be used as a feeder or a drinker or a feeder-drinker combination
depending on requirements of the user and the animal. For the sake of describing the
preferred embodiment, reference numeral 100 will be referred to as a feeder in the
following passages.
The feeder 100 comprises a housing formed from sheet metal (such as galvanized
steel sheets) mounted on a frame 112. The frame 112 is formed from frame members
fastened together by any known fastening methods such as spot welding to form a
cubical frame. The metal sheets may be riveted on the frame 112 to define a hollow
internal space or chamber to receive removable containers 120. The removable
containers 120 may be formed from a transparent or translucent material. In the
preferred embodiment, the containers are made from injection moulded polymeric
material. However, the invention is not limited to containers made from any specific
material. The containers 120 may also be provided with visual indicia (markings on the
walls of the containers 120) to indicate volume of feed or liquid(water) in the container
120.
Each of the containers 120 (as shown clearly in Figure 1) comprises an upwardly
positioned edge portion defining the opening of the container and downwardly
dependent container walls forming a hollow food receiving cavity to receive food or
water. The outer edge portion of each container 120 extends radially and outwardly
relative to the hollow food receiving cavity such that an underside of the edge portion
engages one or more of the frame members during use.             The frame 122 further
comprises a plurality of spaced apart frame members 123 extending in between a pair

                                             6
of upstanding walls extending lengthwise. The spaced apart frame members 123 are
adapted to engage and support the removable containers 120 positioned thereon.
The cubical hollow internal space defined by the upstanding walls of the case 110
allows a plurality of the containers 120 to be positioned in a single row as shown clearly
in Figure 2. Such an arrangement is beneficial for two reasons. First, the container
120 are easily removable for cleaning or pouring food and water. Second, provision of
multiple containers 120 in the case 110 allows the apparatus 100 to be used
simultaneously as a feeder and drinker. At least a first plurality of containers 120 can
be used for containing animal feed and at least a second plurality of containers 120
can be used for containing water.
The case 110 is coupled with a cover 130. The cover 130 is hinged fastened to an
upper portion of the case 110 by way of one or more hinges. The cover 130 is hingedly
fastened to be pivoted between an open and closed position. In the open position food
or water contained in one or more of the removable containers 120 is accessible to an
animal desirous of food and water. In the closed position, food or water contained in
one or more of the removable containers 120 is not accessible to the animal. An
elongate treadle 140 extending along one side of the frontal wall of the case 110 is
coupled to the cover 130. The treadle 140 is adapted to be tread upon by the animal
desirous of food or water to open and close the cover 130. An actuating arrangement
150 is coupled to the treadle 140 and the cover 130 for actuating the opening of the
cover 130 such that, upon being tread, movement of the treadle 140 results in the
cover 130 being positioned in an open position.

                                            7
Actuating arrangements 150A and 150B are provided at each end of the elongate
treadle 140. Each of the actuating arrangement 150 comprises a treadle arm 152 that
extends between two ends wherein a first end of the treadle arm is linked to the treadle
and a second end of the treadle arm is linked to a transversely disposed actuating arm
154. The actuating arm 154 is coupled to the cover 130 whereby downward movement
of the treadle 140 by application of force by the animal causes upward movement of
the treadle arm 140 and the linked actuating arm 154 to open the cover 130 and
wherein removal of the force results in closing of the cover 130. The treadle arm 152
and the actuating arm 154 form a rigid link assembly with link pivots that permit
sufficient movement of the treadle arm 152 and actuating arm 154 relative to the
treadle 140 and the cover 130 to allow opening and closing of the cover 130 when an
animal treads on the treadle 140.
In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more or
less specific to structural or methodical features. The term "comprises" and its
variations, such as "comprising" and "comprised of' is used throughout in an inclusive
sense and not to the exclusion of any additional features.
It is to be understood that the invention is not limited to specific features shown or
described since the means herein described comprises preferred forms of putting the
invention into effect.
The invention is, therefore, claimed in any of its forms or modifications within the
proper scope of the appended claims appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the
art.

                                            8
CLAIMS
1.      An animal feeder and/or drinker comprising:
               a housing comprising a frame with upstanding walls defining a hollow
internal space;
               one or more removable containers for receiving food or water, said
containers being adapted to be positioned in the hollow internal space of the housing,
said containers comprising edge portions for engagement with said frame;
               a cover coupled to the housing, said cover being operable to be pivoted
between an open and closed position wherein in an open position food or water
contained in one or more of the removable containers is accessible to an animal
desirous of food and water and wherein in a closed position, food or water contained
in one or more of the removable containers is not accessible to the animal;
               a treadle coupled to the cover, said treadle being adapted to be tread
upon by the animal desirous of food or water; and
              an actuating arrangement coupled to the treadle and the cover for
actuating the opening of the cover such that, upon being tread, movement of the
treadle results in the cover being position in an open position.
2.      An animal feeder in accordance with claim 1 wherein the housing comprises
two pairs of opposed and spaced apart upstanding walls defining a cubical shaped
hollow internal space and wherein the frame further comprises a plurality of spaced
apart frame members extending in between a first pair of upstanding walls, said frame

                                             9
members being adapted to engage and support the removable containers positioned
thereon.
3.      An animal feeder in accordance with claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said container
comprises an upwardly positioned edge portion defining the opening of the container
and downwardly dependent container walls forming a hollow food receiving cavity to
receive food therein.
4.      An animal feeder in accordance with claim 3 wherein the edge portion extends
radially and outwardly relative to the hollow food receiving cavity such that an
underside of the edge portion engages the frame during use.
5.      An animal feeder in accordance with any one of the preceding claims
comprising a plurality of removable containers positioned in a spaced apart
arrangement in the casing.
6.      An animal feeder in accordance with any one of the preceding claims further
comprising a base comprising feet portions for being positioned on a supporting
surface and upwardly extending leg portions for supporting the housing in a raised
configuration relative to the supporting surface.
7.      An animal feeder in accordance with any one of the preceding claims wherein
the actuating arrangement comprises a treadle arm extending between two ends
wherein a first end of the treadle arm is linked to the treadle and a second end of the

                                          10
treadle arm is linked to a transversely disposed actuating arm, said actuating arm
being coupled to the cover whereby downward movement of the treadle by application
of force by the animal causes upward movement of the treadle arm and the linked
actuating arm to open the cover and wherein removal of the force results in closing of
the cover.
8.     An animal feeder in accordance with claim 7 comprising two of said actuating
arrangements, each of said actuating arrangements being positioned at opposed ends
of the housing.
9.     An animal feeder in accordance with any one of the claims wherein one or more
of the containers is formed from a transparent or translucent material.
10.    An animal feeder in accordance with any one of the claims wherein the
containers comprise visual indicia for indicating volume of food or liquid in each
container.
11.    An animal feeder in accordance with any one of the claims further comprising
a locking arrangement to prevent opening of the cover by treading of the animal on
the treadle.

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
               120
                                                  130
                                                        170
              122
                     100
              120                          123
                       160
               120                   110         112
                                                                          154
                           140
                                                                          162
                                                                    150
                                                       152
                                                              160
                                 FIGURE 1

<removed-date>
                                           120
                                    120
<removed-apn>
                          120
                    100
                                FIGURE 2
              100
                                FIGURE 3

