SINGLE USE LARYNGOSCOPE HANDLE
ABSTRACT
A single use laryngoscope handle (11) for use in a dual component laryngoscope assembly (10),
the handle (11) comprising:
         an elongated tubular hand grip (24) having a leading hand grip end (26), a trailing hand
grip end (27) and a power source assembly compartment (34) between said leading hand grip
end (26) and said trailing hand grip end (27);
         a power source assembly (36) for storage in said power source assembly compartment
(34) for electrically operating the electrically operated illumination source (22) in an operative
intubation position; and
         an end cap (54) configured to mount on said trailing hand grip end (27) in a pre-actuated
position, said end cap (54) having an upright support member (58) for supporting said power
source assembly (36) at said leading hand grip end (26) in said pre-actuated position in an
upright handle orientation of the laryngoscope handle (11) with said leading hand grip end (26)
above said trailing hand grip end (27),
         said end cap (54) including a transverse end plate (56) and an upright end wall (57), the
transverse end plate (56) having at least one axial directed frangible member (59) extending
therefrom and facing radial outward away from said support member (58) for engaging a
respective throughgoing aperture (61) formed in a lowermost end of said trailing hand grip end
(27);
         wherein the at least one frangible member (59) is configured to protrude into the
throughgoing aperture (61) and abut against the upright end wall (57) of the end cap (54), and
         wherein a manual actuation of said end cap (54) from said pre-actuated position breaks
said at least one frangible member (59) and detaches said end cap (54) from said trailing hand
grip end (27) whereupon said power source assembly (36) readily slides downwardly and
outwardly from said trailing hand grip end (27) in said upright handle orientation under
gravitational force thereby preventing re-use of said single use laryngoscope handle (11).

                                                   1
SINGLE USE LARYNGOSCOPE HANDLE
[0001] This is a divisional application of Australian patent application no. 2014316634, the
entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Field of the Invention
[0002] The invention relates to laryngoscope assemblies in general and laryngoscope handles in
particular.
Background of the Invention
[0003] ISO 7376 standardizes dual component laryngoscope assemblies including a removable
double snap fit engagement of a laryngoscope blade into an operative intubation position on a
laryngoscope handle. Dual component laryngoscope assemblies preferably include an
illumination arrangement for facilitating an intubation. ISO compatible dual component
laryngoscope assemblies can be classified into two types as follows:
[0004] First, a more recent so-called green type including a laryngoscope handle having a power
source, an illumination source and a switching arrangement for selectively powering the
illumination source in an operative intubation position of a laryngoscope blade. And second, a
conventional type including a laryngoscope handle with a power source and a laryngoscope
blade with an illumination source powered by the power source in an operative intubation
position of the laryngoscope blade on the laryngoscope handle.
[0005] Such laryngoscope handles typically have sturdy metal constructions designed for
sterilization between uses. However, sterilization is regarded as a relatively complicated, costly
and time consuming procedure. Therefore it would be desirable to provide low cost
laryngoscope handles designed to become inoperable after their intended single use.
Object of the Invention
[0006] It is an object of the present invention to at least substantially provide one or more of the
above desirable outcomes.

                                                   2
Summary of the Invention
[0007] The present invention provides a single use laryngoscope handle for use in a dual
component laryngoscope assembly, the handle comprising:
         an elongated tubular hand grip having a leading hand grip end, a trailing hand grip end
and a power source assembly compartment between said leading hand grip end and said trailing
hand grip end;
         a power source assembly for storage in said power source assembly compartment for
electrically operating the electrically operated illumination source in an operative intubation
position; and
         an end cap configured to mount on said trailing hand grip end in a pre-actuated position,
said end cap having an upright support member for supporting said power source assembly at
said leading hand grip end in said pre-actuated position in an upright handle orientation of the
laryngoscope handle with said leading hand grip end above said trailing hand grip end,
         said end cap including a transverse end plate and an upright end wall, the transverse end
plate having at least one axial directed frangible member extending therefrom and facing radial
outward away from said support member for engaging a respective throughgoing aperture
formed in a lowermost end of said trailing hand grip end;
         wherein the at least one frangible member is configured to protrude into the
throughgoing aperture and abut against the upright end wall of the end cap, and
         wherein a manual actuation of said end cap from said pre-actuated position breaks said at
least one frangible member and detaches said end cap from said trailing hand grip end
whereupon said power source assembly readily slides downwardly and outwardly from said
trailing hand grip end in said upright handle orientation under gravitational force thereby
preventing re-use of said single use laryngoscope handle.
[0008] At least on embodiment of the present invention is directed toward single use
laryngoscope handles for use in ISO 7376 compatible dual component laryngoscope assemblies
with an illumination arrangement. The single use laryngoscope handles include low cost plastic
components including inter alia a plastic hand grip and a plastic end cap. The single use
laryngoscope handles of the present invention are designed to satisfy two opposing use
requirements as follows. On the one hand, an end cap is required to be sufficiently securely
mounted on a hand grip to support the weight of a power source assembly in an upright handle

                                                  3
position of a laryngoscope handle. And on the other hand, an end cap is required to be detached
from a hand grip by application of a relatively minor manual detachment force which can be
readily applied by a clinical user without the need for a separate tool to assist him such that an
end cap cannot be re-attached onto a hand grip in a secure manner to satisfy the first
requirement, thereby ensuring the laryngoscope handle is a single use medical device.
[0009] To satisfy these two opposing use requirements, the laryngoscope handles of
embodiments of the present invention include at least one plastic frangible member for engaging
a hand grip and an end cap in a pre-actuated position of an end cap which is broken on
application of a relatively minor manual detachment force to the end cap, thereby precluding
subsequent use of the laryngoscope handle. Such actuation of an end cap leads to its detachment
from a hand grip which in turn leads to a power source assembly contained in the hand grip to
readily downwardly and outwardly slide therefrom by gravitational force in an upright handle
orientation. Actuation of an end cap for detachment from a hand grip can be by way of a
combined rotation of an end cap relative to a hand grip and a subsequent longitudinal directed
force away from the hand grip. Alternatively, actuation can be by way of a longitudinal directed
force only away from the hand grip. The single use laryngoscope handles of embodiments of the
present invention also afford that the plastic hand grip and end cap components can be readily
separated from power source assemblies for recycling purposes, and the like.
[00010]         Single use laryngoscope handles in accordance with at least one embodiment of
the present invention can be designed for use in hitherto described green type laryngoscope
assemblies including either single use or multiple use laryngoscope blades. Exemplary single
use laryngoscope blades are disclosed in inter alia commonly owned US Patent No. 7,736,304 to
Pecherer entitled Metal Laryngoscope Blade, and the like.
[00011]         Alternatively, single use laryngoscope handles in accordance with at least one
embodiment of the present invention can be designed for use in hitherto described conventional
laryngoscope assemblies including either single use or multiple use laryngoscope blades.
Exemplary single use laryngoscope blades are disclosed in inter alia commonly owned US
Patent No. 5,879,304 to Shuchman et al. entitled Single Use Laryngoscope Blade, commonly
owned US Patent No. 8,142,353 to Pecherer et al. entitled Metal Laryngoscope Blade with
Illumination Assembly, and the like. Exemplary multiple use laryngoscope blades are disclosed

                                                  4
in inter alia commonly owned US Patent No. 6,719,888 to Pecherer et al. entitled Light Guide
Mount For Use in a Laryngoscope, and the like.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0010] In order to understand the invention and to see how it can be carried out in practice,
preferred embodiments will now be described, by way of non-limiting examples only, with
reference to the accompanying drawings in which similar parts are likewise numbered, and in
which:
[0011] Fig. 1 is a front perspective view of a dissembled ISO 7376 so-called green laryngoscope
assembly including a conventional laryngoscope blade and a preferred embodiment of a single
use laryngoscope handle in accordance with the present invention;
[0012] Fig. 2 is an exploded view of Figure l's laryngoscope handle;
[0013] Fig. 3 is a longitudinal cross section of Figure l's laryngoscope handle along line A-A in
Figure 1 in a non-illuminating state;
[0014] Fig. 4 is a longitudinal cross section of Figure l's laryngoscope handle along line A-A in
Figure 1 in an illuminating state;
[0015] Fig. 5 is a front perspective view of Figure l's laryngoscope handle in an upright handle
orientation after actuation; and
[0016] Fig. 6 is a front perspective view of a dissembled ISO 7376 conventional laryngoscope
assembly including a conventional laryngoscope blade with an electrically operated illumination
source and another preferred embodiment of a single use laryngoscope handle in accordance
with the present invention.

                                                  5
Detailed Description of the Drawings
[0017] Figures 1 and 2 show a dissembled ISO 7376 compatible laryngoscope assembly 10
including a single use laryngoscope handle 11 having a longitudinal handle axis 12 in an upright
handle orientation. The laryngoscope assembly 10 includes a conventional metal or plastic
laryngoscope blade 13 for a conventional dual snap fit engagement on the laryngoscope handle
11 into an operative intubation position generally transverse to the laryngoscope handle 11. The
laryngoscope blade 13 can be intended for single use or designed for sterilization for multiple
uses.
[0018] The laryngoscope blade 13 includes a spatula 14 with a proximal spatula end 16 and a
distal spatula end 17 correspondingly adjacent to and remote from the laryngoscope handle 11 in
its operative intubation position. The proximal spatula end 16 includes a standard blade hook
arrangement 18 having a leading hook 19 and a pair of trailing outward directed spring loaded
protrusions 21.
[0019] The laryngoscope assembly 10 includes an illumination arrangement 22 for providing
illumination at the distal spatula end 17 in the operative intubation position. The illumination
arrangement 22 includes a light guide 23 mounted on the laryngoscope blade 13 and extending
from the proximal spatula end 16 to the distal spatula end 17 for conveying light from a
proximal light guide end 23 A to a distal light guide end 23B.
[0020] The laryngoscope handle 11 includes an elongated tubular plastic hand grip 24 having a
leading hand grip end 26 and a trailing hand grip end 27. The leading hand grip end 26 is above
the trailing hand grip end 27 in the upright handle orientation. The leading hand grip end 26
includes a transverse top wall 28 formed with a throughgoing aperture 29 along the longitudinal
handle axis 12. The leading hand grip end 26 is formed with a standard handle hook
arrangement 31 including a metal pin rod 32 on which the leading hook 19 is snap fitted thereon
and a pair of opposite indents 33 remote from the metal pin rod 32 for snap fit receiving the pair
of trailing outward directed spring loaded protrusions 21.
[0021] The laryngoscope handle 11 includes a power source assembly compartment 34 between
the leading hand grip end 26 and the trailing hand grip end 27 for storing a power source
assembly 36. The power source assembly 36 includes a plastic housing 37 having a leading

                                                  6
housing end 38 and a trailing housing end 39. The plastic housing 37 stores three standard AAA
batteries 41 with their positive terminals 42 towards the leading housing end 38 and their
negative terminals 43 towards the trailing housing end 39. The leading housing end 38 is formed
with a central terminal 44 in continuous electrical contact with the positive terminals 42. The
leading housing end 38 is formed with an annular terminal 46 encircling the central terminal 44
and electrically isolated therefrom. The annular terminal 46 is in continuous electrical contact
with the negative terminals 43 by an axial directed metal strip 47 extending from the annular
terminal 46 to a metal plate 47A in electrical contact with the negative terminals 43.
[0022] The illumination arrangement 22 includes a LED housing 48 protruding through the
throughgoing aperture 29 to be disposed above the transverse top wall 28 prior to double snap fit
engagement of the laryngoscope blade 13 on the laryngoscope handle 11. The LED housing 48
includes a LED 49 with two LED terminals 51 A and 5 IB. The LED terminal 51 A is in
electrical contact with a central terminal cap 52 for selective electrical contact with the central
terminal 44. The LED terminal 5 IB is in electrical contact with a metal spring 53 in continuous
electrical contact with the annular terminal 46.
[0023] Figure 3 shows the spring 53 biases the central terminal cap 52 away from the central
terminal 44. Figure 4 shows on double snap fit engagement of the laryngoscope blade 13 on the
laryngoscope handle 11, the laryngoscope blade 11 imparts a downward force denoted by arrow
A for overcoming the spring 53 such that the terminal cap 52 is in electrical contact with the
central terminal 44 for operating the LED 49 for conveying light through the light guide 23 to
the distal spatula end 17.
[0024] The laryngoscope handle 11 includes a plastic end cap 54 for interference fit mounting
on the trailing hand grip end 27 in a pre- actuated position. The plastic end cap 54 includes a
transverse end plate 56 and an upright end wall 57 for sliding mounting on a lowermost end 27A
of the trailing hand grip end 27. The end plate 56 is formed with an axial directed central
support member 58 for supporting the power source assembly 36 in the power source assembly
compartment 34 at the leading hand grip end 26 in a pre-actuated position. The end plate 56 is
also formed with a pair of opposite axial directed plastic frangible members 59 facing radial
outward from the support member 58 for snug snap fit insertion into a pair of opposite
throughgoing apertures 61 formed in the trailing hand grip end 27 's lowermost end 27 A such
that the end cap 54 engages the trailing hand grip end 27. The frangible member pair 59

                                                  7
protrudes into the opposite throughgoing aperture pair 61 to abut against the upright end wall
57.
 [0025] The end cap 54 includes a tubular cap ring 62 disposed between the upright support
member 58 and the frangible member pair 59. The cap ring 62 is dimensioned heightwise such
that its top surface 62A is substantially flush with the top surfaces 59A of the frangible member
pair 59. The cap ring 62 traps the frangible member pair 59 in their intended throughgoing
aperture pair 61 for their intentional snapping during actuation of the end cap 54 and not sliding
out from the throughgoing apertures 61.
 [0026] Figure 5 shows the manual actuation of the end cap 54 to preclude the laryngoscope
handle 11 being re-used after an intended single use involves a combined user action of rotation
denoted by arrow B to break the frangible member pair 59 and a subsequent longitudinal
directed force denoted by arrow C to detach the end cap 54 from the trailing hand grip end 27.
Figure 5 also shows the frangible member pair 59 is snapped from the end plate 56 close to their
junctures therewith. Consequently, the power source assembly 36 readily slides downwardly and
outwardly from the trailing hand grip end 27 under gravitational force in the upright handle
orientation. In the absence of the frangible member pair 59, re-attachment of the end cap 54 to
the hand grip 24 will not provide a sufficient interference fitting to support the weight of the
power source assembly 36 in the laryngoscope handle 11 in the upright handle orientation.
 [0027] Figure 6 shows a dissembled conventional laryngoscope assembly 80 similar in
construction and operation as the conventional laryngoscope assembly 10. The former 80 differs
from the latter 10 insofar as the former 80 has an illumination arrangement 22 in which the LED
49 is disposed at the distal spatula end 17 and includes wires (not shown) for connecting the
LED terminals 51 A and 5 IB to the central terminal 44 and the annular terminal 46.
 [0028] While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of
embodiments, it will be appreciated that many variations, modifications, and other applications
of the invention can be made within the scope of the appended claims.

                                                   8
CLAIMS
1.     A single use laryngoscope handle for use in a dual component laryngoscope assembly, the
handle comprising:
       an elongated tubular hand grip having a leading hand grip end, a trailing hand grip end and
a power source assembly compartment between said leading hand grip end and said trailing
hand grip end;
       a power source assembly for storage in said power source assembly compartment for
electrically operating the electrically operated illumination source in an operative intubation
position; and
       an end cap configured to mount on said trailing hand grip end in a pre-actuated position,
said end cap having an upright support member for supporting said power source assembly at
said leading hand grip end in said pre-actuated position in an upright handle orientation of the
laryngoscope handle with said leading hand grip end above said trailing hand grip end,
       said end cap including a transverse end plate and an upright end wall, the transverse end
plate having at least one axial directed frangible member extending therefrom and facing radial
outward away from said support member for engaging a respective throughgoing aperture
formed in a lowermost end of said trailing hand grip end;
       wherein the at least one frangible member is configured to protrude into the throughgoing
aperture and abut against the upright end wall of the end cap, and
       wherein a manual actuation of said end cap from said pre-actuated position breaks said at
least one frangible member and detaches said end cap from said trailing hand grip end
whereupon said power source assembly readily slides downwardly and outwardly from said
trailing hand grip end in said upright handle orientation under gravitational force thereby
preventing re-use of said single use laryngoscope handle.
2.     The handle according to claim 1, wherein said at least one frangible member is located on
the end cap between the support member and the upright end wall.
3.     The handle according to any one of claims 1 or 2, wherein the upright end wall of the end
cap is configured to cover the throughgoing aperture formed in the lowermost end of said
trailing hand grip end of the handle in the pre-actuated position.

                                                   9
4.     The handle according to any one of claims I to 3, wherein said manual actuation of said
end cap involves rotation of said end cap with respect to said hand grip.
5.     The handle according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said end cap includes a tubular
cap ring disposed between said support member and said at least one frangible member for
ensuring snapping of said at least one frangible member on said manual actuation of said end
cap from said pre-actuated position.
6.     The handle according to any one of claims I to 5, wherein the power source assembly
further includes a housing having a leading housing end and a trailing housing end, wherein the
leading housing end is formed with a central terminal in continuous electrical contact with
positive terminals of the power source assembly.
7.     The handle according to claim 6, further comprising an annular terminal formed encircling
the central terminal and electrically isolated therefrom, wherein the annular terminal is in
continuous electrical contact with negative terminals of the power source assembly.
8.    A dual component laryngoscope assembly including:
       a single use laryngoscope handle in accordance with claim 1; and
       a laryngoscope blade having a spatula and intended for dual snap fit engagement on the
laryngoscope handle to dispose the spatula into an operative intubation position generally
transverse to the laryngoscope handle, the spatula having a distal spatula end remote from the
laryngoscope handle in the operative intubation position.
9.     The dual component laryngoscope assembly of claim 8, further comprising an
illumination arrangement including an electrically operated illumination source for selectively
providing illumination at the distal spatula end in the operative intubation position.
10.    The dual component laryngoscope assembly of claim 8, further comprising an
illumination arrangement comprising an LED disposed at the distal spatula end and configured
to connect to a central terminal and an annular terminal of the power source assembly.
                                   Truphatek International Ltd
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
