                                      ABSTRACT
A connector 20 for use in a fish protection system 10, the connector 20 including a
connector body 60. The connector body 60 includes an inner ring receiving aperture
62 for receiving about a respective inner ring wall portion; and an outer ring receiving
aperture 66 for receiving about a respective outer ring wall portion. The inner and
outer ring receiving apertures 62, 66 are provided in a generally common plane.

                                              1
        A CONNECTOR FOR USE IN A FISH STOCK PROTECTION SYSTEM
[0001]      The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent
application number 2014201866, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein
by reference.
Introduction
[0001 a]    The present invention relates generally to the farming of fish. The invention
has particular application to the farming of fish species such as salmon in open water
and so will be generally described in this context. However, the invention is
considered to have wider application and so could be used in the farming of other fish
and sea life species.
Background of Invention
[0002]      Existing stock containment systems (or 'pens') are designed to contain the
fish stock(s) being farmed in open water, until such time as the fish are ready to be
harvested. Such systems generally include a buoyant (or flotation) structure that
supports a stock containment net. These types of systems may be movable, such that
they can be periodically moved between locations in order to maintain the health and
well-being of the fish - a method known as fallowing.
[0003]      These types of systems have been shown to work well in terms of farming
healthy fish, but have been shown to be largely ineffective in terms of denying access
to sea predators such as seals.
[0004]      If a seal gains access into a net then they can strike at thousands of fish
and, in turn, seriously erode the financial viability of the farming operation. Some
estimates place the loss of fish to seals at 10 to 15% or more. With commercial fish
farming enterprises often producing tens of thousands of tonnes of fish a year, a
percentage loss of fish of this order is very significant indeed.
[0005]      Some seals weigh in excess of 400kg, and so can also pose a threat to
staff working on and in the vicinity of such systems. Seals can also cause significant
damage to the nets and supporting structures.
[0006]      The current design of stock containment systems means that seals are
potentially able to access the stock containment nets either above or below the water
surface, either by creating a hole in the net and entering the net through the hole, or
by climbing over the top edge of the net. Seals regularly climb over the top edge of

                                                2
existing nets, even when the top edge of the net is 1m or more above the water
surface. Seals are assisted in this regard by the current design of the buoyant frame
structure, onto which the seals can climb with relative ease. Once on top of the frame
structure, it is a relatively simple task for a seal to climb over the top edge of the net to
access the fish.
[0007]      Addressing the problem caused by seals can be complex, since seals are
a protected species in Australia and in many other parts of the world, and further
because seal numbers are increasing.
[0008]      One current strategy for deterring seals is to provide an additional layer of
netting above the water line about the top of the stock containment net. However, this
has been shown to be largely ineffective, as seals either scale over or under the
additional netting layer, or simply break the netting to access the fish.
[0009]      The applicant is regularly required to trap seals that have accessed their
existing stock containment nets and relocate them. This, however, often doesn't solve
the problem, as the seals can return in as little as 3 days, even when relocated 500km
away.
[0010]      Another problem experienced with existing fish stock containment systems
is that of birds feeding on the fish feed. Birds often also target the fish, particularly
smaller fish. For example, gulls tend to target the fish feed pellets; while cormorants
mainly target smaller fish (generally less than 500 grams). Bird species such as gulls
and cormorants are protected species in Australia and in other parts of the world and,
at least partly as a result, their numbers are increasing.
[0011]      The presence of birds can also put the fish off feeding, which is
undesirable in a fish farming enterprise. It has been estimated by the applicant that
they currently lose anywhere from 1 to 2% of their fish farm gate value to birds. Bird
net arrangements have been used previously, although these have not been entirely
successful at keeping birds away from the fish and fish feed. Further, birds often
become entangled in existing bird nets, which is undesirable from an animal welfare
point of view.
SPCN-975195

                                               3
[0012]      It would therefore be desirable to at least partially address one or more of
the shortcomings mentioned above of existing fish stock containment systems.
Summary of Invention
[0013]      Reference in      the specification to orientation terminology, such as
"upwardly", "downwardly", "vertical" and the like is used for illustrative purposes with
the invention provided in its intended in-use orientation. Such terminology is not in
any way intended to limit the scope of protection sought in the accompanying claims.
[0014]      According to a broad aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
fish stock protection system. The system includes a frame structure including a
buoyant inner ring, and a buoyant outer ring, with the outer ring provided in a
generally common plane with the inner ring and extending about the inner ring. The
system also includes a plurality of connectors spaced about the frame structure, with
each connector provided for connecting the inner ring to the outer ring. The system
further includes a rail assembly connected to each respective connector. The rail
assembly supports a stock containment net, with the stock containment net
suspended in a space surrounded by the inner ring. The stock containment net has
an upwardly facing opening. The system also includes a predator net assembly
including a respective predator net mount connected to each connector. The predator
net mounts support a predator net. In use, the predator net is spaced from and
suspended about the stock containment net.
[0015]      It is to be appreciated that the present invention may be utilized to protect a
variety of sea life including, but not limited to fish such as salmon.
[0016]      Reference has been made to the inner and outer rings being provided in a
generally common plane. It is envisaged that, in use, this would be a generally
horizontal plane.
[0017]      The applicant has discovered that the provision of a predator net
surrounding and spaced from the stock containment net provides a greatly improved
arrangement that prevents seals from entering or otherwise accessing the stock
containment net to devour the fish stock therein contained.
SPCN-975195

                                             4
[0018]      In a preferred form, the system further includes a bird net assembly. The
bird net assembly is supported by each respective connector above the stock
containment net, and is provided so as to prevent bird access to the stock
containment net through the upwardly facing opening of the stock containment net.
[0019]      The provision of a bird net assembly is desirable because it prevents the
loss of feed stock added to the stock containment net, which may otherwise be
consumed by birds. It also prevents birds feeding on the fish, particularly smaller fish,
contained in the stock containment net.
[0020]      It is to be appreciated that, in use, the fish stock protection system would
float in water, with the rings providing the desired amount of buoyancy. In a
particularly preferred form, an outer edge region of the stock containment net would
be suspended above the water line, and the remainder of the stock containment net
would be suspended below the water line. In one form, the outer edge region of the
stock containment net extends about the periphery of the stock containment net and,
in use, extends out of the water to a height of approximately 1m.
[0021]      In use, an outer edge region of the predator net would also typically be
suspended above the water line, with the remainder of the predator net suspended
below the water line. The outer edge region of the predator net most preferably
extends about the periphery of the predator net and, in use, extends out of the water
to a height of approximately 3m. Extending this distance out of the water has been
shown to be a significant deterrent to seals when attempting to access fish in the
stock containment net. Seals are unable to jump or climb over the predator net of the
present invention, and so are unable to access the fish in the stock containment net.
Further, the seals are unable to breach the predator net, given its unique design
details of which will be provided hereinafter.
[0022]      In one preferred form, a lower edge region of the predator net is
surrounded by and connected to a weighted shape retaining ring extending about the
lower edge region of the predator net, so as to retain the lower edge region of the
predator net in a generally circular shape.
SPCN-975195

                                            5
[0023]      A lower edge region of the stock containment net is also preferably
connected to one of the lower edge region of the predator net and the shape retaining
ring, so as to retain the lower edge region of the stock containment net in a generally
circular shape. In this way both the predator and stock containment nets are retained
in their desired, in use, shapes.
[0024]      So far, the invention has been described as having an inner ring and an
outer ring. However, it is envisaged that the system would preferably also include an
intermediate buoyant ring. Preferably, the intermediate ring is provided in the
generally common plane with the inner and outer rings, and with each of the
connectors connecting the intermediate ring to the inner and outer rings.
[0025]      In a preferred form, each connector includes a connector body. The
connector body may include an inner ring receiving aperture for receiving about a
respective inner ring wall portion; as well as an outer ring receiving aperture for
receiving about a respective outer ring wall portion. If the system includes an
intermediate ring, then each connector may also include an intermediate ring
receiving aperture for receiving about a respective intermediate ring wall portion. It is
envisaged that the inner, intermediate and outer ring receiving apertures are provided
in a generally common plane, given that the rings are arranged in a generally
common plane.
[0026]      The rail assembly may include a respective upstanding rail mounting post
extending from each connector body, with a generally ring-shaped rail connected to
each of the rail mounting posts. In use, the rail is preferably mounted generally above
the inner ring. The invention also contemplates mounting the rail at other possible
locations, other than above the inner ring. The rail can be utilised as a hand rail by
staff.
[0027]      The stock containment net may be supported by the rail mounting posts. In
this regard, the stock containment net may be connected to each of the posts by a
hook.
SPCN-975195

                                             6
[0028]      The upstanding rail mounting post of each connector may extend generally
perpendicularly to the common plane, if desired.
[0029]      The predator net mount of each connector may be provided on a predator
net mount arm connected to and extending upwardly from the connector body.
[0030]      It is envisaged that the predator net mount arm of each connector would
extend upwardly from the connector body in a non-vertical direction. As such, the arm
may extend extending upwardly and outwardly from the connector body at an angle of
between approximately 40 and 150 to vertical, when the connector body is in its in-use
orientation. This arrangement is desired, because it allows the base of the arm to be
mounted slightly inwardly from the outer edge of the connector, thereby lessening the
likelihood of the arm sustaining impact damage from boats pulling alongside the
protection system. In a particularly preferred form, the predator net mount arm of each
connector extends upwardly and outwardly from the connector body at an angle of
approximately 80 to vertical, when the connector body is in its in-use orientation.
[0031]      Each connector may include a bird net mount provided on a respective bird
net mount arm connected to and extending upwardly from the connector body.
[0032]      It is envisaged that each of the connectors is manufactured at least
substantially from high density polyethylene (HDPE). Such a material is desired,
because it is relatively robust. This allows the connectors to be twisted and otherwise
deformed by without damage. Further, HDPE does not corrode, and therefore is a
more preferred material than the use of connectors manufactured from steel.
[0033]      The invention has, so far, been generally described in the context of a fish
stock protection system. However, the invention is also directed to a connector for
use in a fish stock protection system. Thus, according to another broad aspect of the
present invention, there is provided a connector for use in a fish protection system.
The connector includes a connector body, with the connector body including an inner
ring receiving aperture for receiving about a respective inner ring wall portion; and an
outer ring receiving aperture for receiving about a respective outer ring wall portion.
SPCN-975195

                                             7
The inner and outer ring receiving apertures are provided in a generally common
plane.
[0034]      In a preferred form, the connector body includes an intermediate ring
receiving aperture for receiving about a respective intermediate ring wall portion. In
such an arrangement, each of the inner, intermediate and outer ring receiving
apertures is provided in the generally common plane.
[0035]      In one form, the connector includes an upstanding rail mounting post for
mounting a rail thereto. The upstanding rail mounting post may extend generally
perpendicularly to the generally common plane.
[0036]      The connector preferably includes a predator net mount provided on a
predator net mount arm, with the arm connected to and extending upwardly from the
connector body when the connector body is provided in its in-use orientation. The
predator net mount arm preferably extends from the connector body in a non-vertical
direction, as previously discussed.
[0037]      In one form, the connector includes a bird net mount provided on a
respective bird net mount arm connected to and extending upwardly from the
connector body when the body is provided in its in-use orientation.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0038]      It will be convenient to hereinafter describe preferred embodiments of the
invention with reference to the accompanying figures. The particularity of the figures
is to be understood as not limiting the preceding broad description of the invention.
[0039]      Figure 1 is a side view of one embodiment of a fish stock protection system
according to the present invention.
[0040]      Figure 2 is a side view of the system shown in Figure 1, but with the
predator net assembly removed.
[0041]      Figure 3 is a side view of the system of Figure 1, but with the predator net
assembly and the bird net assembly both removed.
[0042]      Figure 4 is a side view of one embodiment of a connector used in the
system of Figure 1.
SPCN-975195

                                             8
[0043]      Figure 5 is a side view of a predator net mount arm for attachment to the
connector shown in Figure 4.
[0044]      Figure 6 is a perspective view of a partially constructed portion of a fish
stock protection system prior to installation in a body of water, according to another
embodiment of the present invention.
[0045]      Figure 7 is another perspective view of the partially constructed portion of
the system illustrated in Figure 6.
Detailed Description
[0046]      Referring to Figures 1 to 5, there is illustrated a fish stock protection
system 10. The system 10 has been specifically designed for protecting the
Applicant's farmed salmon stock, although the system 10 could equally be used or
adapted for use with other fish and sea life varieties.
[0047]      The system includes a frame structure 12 having three buoyant rings,
including an inner ring 14, an intermediate ring 16, and an outer ring 18. The
construction of the rings 14, 16, 18 is such that they provide sufficient buoyancy to
retain the system 10 in it's in use position extending both above and below the water
surface. It can be seen that the rings 14, 16, 18 are provided in a generally common
horizontal plane. The overall circumference of the inner ring 14 is marginally smaller
than that of the intermediate ring 16 which, in turn, is marginally smaller than that of
the outer ring 18. As such, the rings 14, 16, 18 can be concentrically arranged in
relatively close proximity. The rings 14, 16, 18 provide a relatively rigid frame
structure 12.
[0048]      The system 10 also includes a plurality of connectors 20 (or brackets)
spaced about the frame structure 12. Only some of the connectors 20 have been
labelled in Figures 1 to 3. A connector is shown in Figure 4.The specific design of the
connectors 20 is considered unique. Each connector 20 is provided for connecting the
inner, intermediate and outer rings 14, 16, 18 together.       The connectors 20 are
manufactured from HDPE in an injection moulding process. HDPE has been found to
be a robust material able to withstand the harsh operating environment in which the
connectors 20 are used. The use of HDPE also avoids the problem of corrosion,
which would be an issue if the connectors were manufactured from steel.
SPCN-975195

                                              9
[0049]      The system 10 further includes a rail assembly 22 connected to each
respective connector 20. The rail assembly 22 supports a stock containment net 24
by way of hooks or other appropriate connector arrangement, with the stock
containment net 24 suspended in a space 26 surrounded by the inner ring 14. The
stock containment net 24 has an upwardly facing opening 28. The stock containment
net 24 is provided for containing farmed salmon, or other desired fish or sea life
variety (or varieties).
[0050]      A predator net assembly 30 is provided. The predator net assembly 30
includes a respective predator net mount 32 connected to each connector 20. The
predator net mounts 32 support a predator net 34. In use, the predator net 34 is
spaced from and suspended about the stock containment net 24.The primary function
of the predator net 34 is to deter seals and other sea predators from attempting to
access the stock containment net 24 and gain access to the fish therein provided. The
provision of a predator net 34 is therefore considered a great advancement on
existing fish pen arrangements that do not include a predator net.
[0051]      The stock containment and predator nets 24, 34 are both preferably
manufactured from an ultra- high strength -polyethylene (UHSPE).
[0052]      The system 10 further includes a bird net assembly 40. The bird net
assembly 40 is supported by each respective connector 20 above the stock
containment net 24, and is provided for preventing bird access to the stock
containment net 24 through the upwardly facing opening 28 of the stock containment
net 24. The bird net assembly 40 includes a bird net 42. The bird net 42 substantially
covers the entire opening 28 of the stock containment net 24. The bird net 42 is also
preferably manufactured      from an     ultra-high strength     polyethylene. As stated
previously, the provision of a bird net assembly 40 is desirable, because it prevents or
at least limits the loss of feed stock added to the stock containment net 24, which
would otherwise be consumed by birds. This, in turn, increases the profitability of the
fish farming enterprise, and better allows the fish stock to be fed at the desired rate. It
also prevents birds taking the fish, particularly the smaller fish.
SPCN-975195

                                            10
[0053]      Although not entirely clear from the drawings, each of the rings 14, 16, 18
would be sufficiently buoyant to float on or proximate to the water surface. In this way,
the outer peripheral edge region 46 of the stock containment net 24 extends out of the
water to a height of approximately 1m, while the remainder of the stock containment
net 24 is suspended below the water line.
[0054]      In use, the outer peripheral edge region 50 of the predator net 34 is
suspended above the water line to a height in the order of 3m; with the remainder of
the predator net suspended below the water line. A height of around 3m has been
shown to significantly deter seals attempting to access fish in the stock containment
net 24. This is because seals are unable to jump or climb over the predator net 34
(nor penetrate the predator net fabric), and so are unable to access the fish in the
stock containment net 24.
[0055]      It can be seen in Figure 1 that a lower edge region 52 of the predator net is
surrounded by and connected to a shape retaining and weighted ring 54 (also known
as a 'sinker ring'). The ring 54 is at least relatively rigid, so as to maintain the lower
edge region 52 in a generally circular shape and to maintain it in a spaced
relationship with the stock containment net 24. In this regard, it can be seen that a
lower edge region 56 of the stock containment net 24 is also connected (by way of
connecting ties 58) to one of the lower edge region 52 of the predator net 34 and the
shape retaining ring 54 to retain the lower edge region of the stock containment net
24 in a generally circular shape. In this way both the predator and stock containment
nets 34, 24 are retained in their desired, in use, shapes. Moreover they remain
separated underwater, thereby distancing seals and other predators from fish
contained within the stock containment net 24.
[0056]      Figure 4 illustrates a connector 20. It is envisaged that each of the
connectors 20 would be identical. It can be seen that the connector 20 includes a
connector body 60. The connector body 60 includes an inner ring receiving aperture
62 for receiving about a wall portion of the inner ring 14. The connector body 60 also
includes an intermediate ring receiving aperture 64 for receiving about a wall portion
of the intermediate ring 16; and an outer ring receiving aperture 66 for receiving about
SPCN-975195

                                           11
a wall portion of the outer ring 18. Each of the apertures 62, 64, 66 is shaped and
sized to be received snugly about the respective ring 14, 16, 18.
[0057]      The rail assembly 22 provided on the connector 20 includes a respective
upstanding rail mounting post 70. The post 70 is manufactured from HDPE and is
fitted and secured to the connector body 60 during the connector assembly process.
A generally ring-shaped rail 72 (shown in Figures 1 to 3) extends through a bore 73
(see Figure 4) provided on the top of each rail mounting post 70 to retain the rail 72 in
position. It can also be seen from Figure 4 that the rail 72 is mounted generally above
the inner ring 14, and at a height of approximately 1m above the surface of the water.
The net 24 is connected to the posts 70 by way of hooks or other suitable connectors
(not clearly shown).
[0058]      A predator net mount arm 74, containing net mounts having lugs 76a and
cleats 76b, is illustrated in Figure 5. The arm 74 is manufactured from HDPE. The
illustrated arm 74 is designed for connection to the connector body 60 during the
connector assembly process, with the arm 74 received in a bore 78 (see Figure 4)
extending through the connector body 60. The arm 74 is designed to extend upwardly
and outwardly from the connector body 60 when connected thereto, at an angle of
approximately 80 to vertical when the connector body 60 is in its in-use orientation
when floating on an at least generally still and flat body of water. Again, this
arrangement is desired, because it allows the base of the arm 74 to be mounted
slightly inwardly from the outer edge of the connector 20, thereby lessening the
likelihood of the arm 74 sustaining impact damage from boats pulling alongside the
protection system.
[0059]       Each connector 20 has the capacity to fit a bird net mount arm 80
containing a bird net mount 82. The arm 80 may be of any suitable length, and in the
illustrated embodiment is in the order of 2650mm long. The arm 80 is manufactured
from HDPE and is connected to the connector body 60 during the connector
assembly process. As can be seen from Figure 4, the arm 80 extends upwardly from
the connector body 60. The arm 80 extends from the connector 20 at a non-vertical
angle. The mount 82 is in the form of an opening 84 provided in the upper end of arm
80. The opening 84 is provided for receiving a lower 1.3 m (approx.) portion of a
flexible pole 86 (shown in Figures 1 and 2), with the remaining portion of the flexible

                                             12
pole 86 extending upwardly from the opening 84. The pole 86 is connected to and
supports the bird net 42.
[0060]      It can be seen in Figure 1 that a specialized staff access area 90 is
provided in the upper edge region of the predator net 34. This allows staff to access
the space above the rings 14, 16, 18 and between the nets 24, 34, as required.
[0061]      Any dimensions shown on the drawings are to be interpreted in a non
limiting manner, and are shown merely to illustrate one possible embodiment of the
invention.
[0062]      Decking sections 192 are shown in the embodiment of Figures 6 and 7, in
respect of a partially constructed fish stock protection system 110. The decking
sections 192 provide a relatively flat walking surface for staff to move about the
system 110 as and when required. The decking sections 192 have a lattice structure,
thereby preventing the pooling of water thereon, which may otherwise prove
hazardous to walk on. It can be seen from Figures 6 and 7 that the provision of three
rings 114, 116, 118 is desirable because it provides a relatively wide space for
accommodating staff and equipment.
[0063]      The fish stock protection system 10/110 in accordance with the present
invention not only suitably contains the fish stock(s) being farmed, but has been found
to be very effective in denying access to predators such as seals. This is a marked
benefit, in that fish stock loss to predators does not compromise the financial viability
of the farming operation in the way that occurs with existing fish stock containment
systems.
[0064]      Denying access to seals and the like also improves the safety of staff,
given that the threat posed to staff by having to trap and relocate seals from the
containment system is removed.
[0065]      The invention also greatly reduces the likelihood of damage to the nets and
supporting     structures  by seals that      would  otherwise   necessitate  repair   or
replacement.
SPCN-975195

                                             13
[0066]      The provision of a bird net substantially covering the opening of the stock
containment net also prevents access by birds to the fish and fish feed, which
provides another benefit of the invention. The relative absence of birds when using
the present invention also potentially addresses the issue of fish being put off feeding
which can occur with birds being present.
[0067]      The specific bird net design of the present invention has also been found to
potentially reduce the likelihood of birds becoming entangled therein.
[0068]      Finally, it is to be understood that various alterations, modifications and/or
additions may be introduced into the construction and arrangement of the parts
previously described without departing from the spirit or ambit of this invention.
SPCN-975195

                                           14
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.     A connector for use in a fish protection system, the connector including a
connector body, the connector body including
       an inner ring receiving aperture for receiving about a respective inner ring wall
portion; and
       an outer ring receiving aperture for receiving about a respective outer ring wall
portion, and with the inner and outer ring receiving apertures provided in a generally
common plane.
2.     A connector for use in a fish protection system according to claim 1, wherein
the connector body includes an intermediate ring receiving aperture for receiving
about a respective intermediate ring wall portion; with each of the inner, intermediate
and outer ring receiving apertures provided in the generally common plane.
3.     A connector for use in a fish protection system according to claim 1 or 2,
wherein the connector includes an upstanding rail mounting post for mounting a rail
thereto.
4.     A connector for use in a fish protection system according to claim 3, wherein
the upstanding rail mounting post extends generally perpendicularly to the generally
common plane.
5.     A connector for use in a fish protection system according to any one of the
preceding claims, including a predator net mount provided on a predator net mount
arm connected to and extending upwardly from the connector body.
6.     A connector for use in a fish protection system according to claim 5, wherein
the predator net mount arm extends upwardly from the connector body at an angle of
between approximately 40 and approximately 150 to vertical, when the connector
body is in its in-use orientation.

                                          15
7.     A connector for use in a fish protection system according to claim 6, wherein
the predator net mount arm extends upwardly from the connector body at an angle of
approximately 80 to vertical, when the connector body is in its in-use orientation.
8.     A connector for use with a fish protection system according to any one of the
preceding claims, including a bird net mount provided on a respective bird net mount
arm    connected    to   and    extending  upwardly    from     the   connector     body.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
