                                              21
                                            ABSTRACT
           A bed base 10 including a pair of spaced apart, parallel and elongate side
rails 13,14, and a plurality of elongate slats 16. The slats 16 extend substantially
perpendicular to the side rails 13,14 and opposite ends of the slats 16 are supported
by each side rail 13,14. The slats are spaced apart from each other in the lengthwise
direction of the side rails 13,14 and opposite ends of a plurality of slats 16 are
engaged by a locator 20 which is operable to fix the spacing between at least two
slats 16. The locator 20 includes a cover portion 21 to overlie the opposite ends of
the slats 16 and to overlie the spacing between the opposite ends. The bed base 10
can also include an elongate member or members 30 positioned beneath the slats 16
in contact with the underneath side of the slats 16 and the elongate member or
members 30 are connected to a pair of spaced apart cross rails 31 that each connect
to a slat 16 of the plurality of elongate slats 16.

             (?I
62, 2,0               i6
                 2-0i
        10 z77

                                             1
                                        BED BASE
Technical Field
[0001]      The present invention relates to a bed base, in particular to such a base
which includes a plurality of slats on which a mattress is supported. Such a base
includes a plurality of slats which extend from one side of the base to the other in a
generally spaced apart and parallel configuration, with the slats being supported
along side rails of the base. Bases of this kind are generally known as "slat bases",
and that expression will be used hereinafter to describe a bed base of that kind.
Background of Invention
[0002]      The present applicant has previously obtained patent protection through
Australian patent no. 2008201223 entitled "Slat Support", for a slat base of the above
identified kind. The slat base of patent 2008201223 included a plurality of generally
parallel slats that were supported at either side of the bed base and which included a
"spine" that extended generally perpendicularly to the lengthwise extent of the slats.
Each of the slats extended through the spine and this tended to locate the slats in a
spaced apart generally parallel manner, and also provided for a level of load
distribution amongst the slats for loading applied to the slats when a person or
persons sat or lay on a mattress supported on the slat base.
[0003]      Slat bases have existed for some time in the marketplace, but in recent
times, the deficiencies with such bases have caused them to lose some favour in the
marketplace. Adequate support for the loads which are applied to the slat base has
been identified as a problem, as has the potential for damage to the underside of a
mattress if the slats are not properly secured in place or if they break.
[0004]      Moreover, the aesthetic appearance of a slat base is important during the
purchasing stage of a bed as consumers often lift a mattress to observe the
underlying supporting structure prior to purchasing a bed. The aesthetic appearance
of the underlying structure is therefore important for a sale to be made and feedback
from bed retailers has established that sales of beds that include slat bases are
sometimes compromised where the slats of the base are not accurately parallel and
evenly spaced apart. This is most apparent at the ends of the slats. In prior art bases,

                                                2
the arrangements by which the slats have been located have often allowed them to
shift relative to one another to positions in which they are not parallel and are not
evenly spaced apart and consumers observing such bases are often then put off
purchasing slat base beds simply on that basis alone. The aesthetic appearance of a
slat base is therefore important for consumer purchasing.
[0005]       The applicant has therefore determined that it would be desirable to
provide a slat bed base which provides either for better load support than prior art
bases, and/or that provides a more aesthetic appearance to consumers.
Summary of Invention
[0006]       In a first form of the invention there is provided a bed base including:
        a pair of spaced apart, parallel and elongate side rails, and
        a plurality of elongate slats,
        the slats extending substantially perpendicular to the side rails and opposite
ends of the slats being supported by each side rail,
        the slats being spaced apart from each other in the lengthwise direction of the
side rails,
        opposite ends of a plurality of slats being engaged by a locator which is
operable to fix the spacing between at least two slats, the locator including a cover
portion to overlie the opposite ends of the slats and to overlie the spacing between
the opposite ends.
[0007]       A bed base of the above kind advantageously provides for an improved
aesthetic appearance of the slats, in particular the ends of the slats that are supported
by the side rails. That is, the locator locates the slat ends so that the slats are held
parallel and properly spaced apart (whether this be evenly spaced apart or unevenly
spaced apart).        Also, the locator overlies the ends of the slats, improving the
appearance of the slat ends.          The locator thus attends to some of the problems
associated with the prior art.

                                             3
[0008]      Moreover, by covering the opposite ends of the slats with the cover portion
of the locator, the likelihood of the slat ends puncturing the underneath surface of a
mattress is almost negligible.
[0009]      In a preferred form of the invention, the locators are formed to be generally
rectangular and so that the cover portion is likewise rectangular and extends
generally parallel to the side rails. The depth of the cover portion inboard of the side
rails can be any suitable depth, such as between 50-100mm. The locator is most
likely to be manufactured from plastic, although it could equally be manufactured from
other materials.
[0010]      The locator can also include end walls that extend downwardly from the
cover portion at each lengthwise end of the cover portion for facing side surfaces of
the slats that the cover portion overlies. These end walls can be arranged for firm face
to face contact with the side surfaces of the slats when the slats are in place so that
the top covers are firmly held in position relative to the slats. The downward depth of
the end walls can be any suitable depth such as in the region of 10mm to 30mm.
[0011]      The locator according to the invention can further include a rear wall that
also extends downwardly from the cover portion for facing end walls or surfaces of the
slats that the cover portion overlies. The rear wall can thus be interposed between the
side rails and the ends of the slats and that interposition can tend to take up any
spacing between the slat ends and the side rails, so that the slats are more firmly held
in position in the bed base against movement relative to the bed base. The rear wall
can extend downwardly from the cover portion to the same extent as the end walls
discussed above. The rear wall can extend continuously between the end walls, or
discontinuously.
[0012]      The locator is operable to fix the spacing between at least two slats,
although in practice, it is expected that each locator would be operable to fix the
spacing between three or four slats or perhaps six or eight slats. In order to fix the
spacing between slats, the locator can include location portions that engage facing
side surfaces of a pair of adjacent slats so that upon engagement between the
location portion and the adjacent slats, movement of the slats towards each other is
prevented. By this arrangement, pairs of adjacent slats can be fixed at an even

                                             4
spacing throughout the entire arrangement of slats by preventing movement of the
slats towards each other. Also, by fixing the spacing at each of the opposite ends of
the slats, the parallel configuration between the slats can be maintained across the
bed base.
[0013]      The location portion can take any suitable form and each location portion
can for example, comprise a post that extends downwardly from the cover portion of
the locator. One post could engage the side surface of one slat while an adjacent post
could engage the side wall of an adjacent slat. This arrangement could be repeated
throughout the plurality of slats, so that opposite side edges of each slat are engaged
by a post. Alternatively, the location portion can extend downwardly from the cover
portion to a position between a pair of adjacent slats and can engage the facing side
surfaces of both of those slats to provide the fixed minimum spacing between the
slats. This could comprise a wider post or the location portion could have a different
configuration.
[0014]      In either of the above arrangements, the locator can be constructed so as
to fix the spacing (minimum or maximum) between more than two slats, such as
between three or more slats. Where the locator includes a plurality of location portions
that each engage the side surfaces of a pair of adjacent slats, the locator can be
formed with a front wall portion that is castellated, or in other words, formed with a
plurality of openings and projections, and the location portions are formed between a
pair of adjacent openings. The openings allow the ends of slats to enter the locator
beneath the cover portion and to engage against the rear wall of the locator if of
sufficient length. The openings are a close or snug fit to either side of an individual
slat so that movement of the slats within the openings is minimised. It is a preference
that each locator includes at least four openings for locating at least four slats.
[0015]      A bed base according to the above form can also include an elongate
member which is positioned substantially centrally of the slats between the side rails
and the slats extend through openings formed in the elongate member. The openings
are sized to be a snug or close fit about the slats and the openings are spaced apart
from each other lengthwise of the elongate member at a distance to maintain the slats
generally parallel to each other. An elongate member of the above kind further assists
in the proper spacing and orientation of the slats relative to each other for the

                                            5
aesthetic purposes discussed above. Also, as will be evident from the discussion that
follows, the use of an elongate member can assist to provide better load distribution
across the slats of the bed base.
[0016]      For a different form of load distribution, a bed base according to the
invention can also include a single elongate member which is positioned substantially
centrally of the slats on the underneath of the slats between the side rails and which
extends substantially parallel to the side rails, or a pair of elongate members that are
spaced apart equidistantly between the side rails on the underneath of the slats and
that also extend substantially parallel to the side rails.      The elongate member or
members are intended to be in contact with the underneath surface of the slats for the
purpose of bearing and distributing weight that is applied to the top surface of the
slats more evenly over the slats of the bed base.         A bed base that has a single
elongate member can be for a single or queen size bed, while a king size bed might
require a pair of elongate members.
[0017]      The elongate member or members can connect to cross rails that extend in
the same direction as the slats and which connect to the slats. For example, the
opposite ends of an elongate member can connect to cross rails at each end while
the cross rails each connect to a slat. The cross rails can connect to an individual slat
and can be located directly beneath a slat.
[0018]      In the above forms of the invention, the elongate member or members can
be supported at each end, or additionally intermediate each end.
[0019]      The connection between the elongate member or members and the cross
rails can take any suitable form. In some forms of the invention, the elongate member
or members attach at each end to a cross rail by a bracket. Advantageously, the
brackets can be of a form that receives the end of an elongate member without
necessarily requiring the elongate member to be otherwise fixed to the bracket. The
bracket can for example, include a recess or space for receipt of the end of an
elongate member so that the end of the elongate member can simply be placed within
the recess or space and held by the bracket. The bracket can be also be of a form
that connects to the cross rails without requiring actual fixing of the brackets to the
cross rails. The brackets can for example, be formed to rest on the cross rails without

                                                6
requiring nails or screws to secure them in place. Thus, the cross rails can first be
attached to the appropriate slats and the brackets can thereafter be attached to the
cross rails for receipt of the end of an elongate member.           The brackets can for
example include a hook type member that hooks over the top of a cross rail and that
hooks onto the back of the cross rail. In this form of bracket, the bracket can be slid
along the cross rail to the appropriate supporting position and because the cross rail
is positioned below a slat, the hook is sandwiched between the slat and the cross rail
to hold the bracket in place. This makes the bracket easy to install and to adjust
position on a cross rail. Once properly positioned, the ends of the elongate member
can be inserted into the bracket and supported.
[0020]     The recess or space of the bracket can include a projection (a spigot or
boss for example) the extends upwardly, to be received in an opening in the end of
the elongate member for locating the end of the elongate member in the recess or
space of the bracket.
[0021]     A cross rail can also be attached to a slat by a bracket and in one form, the
bracket includes a first opening through which the slat extends and a second opening
to receive an end of a cross rail. This also forms an easily installed and adjustable
arrangement for connecting a cross rail to a slat.
    [0022] In an alternative form of the present invention, there is a provided a bed
        base including:
                a pair of spaced apart, parallel and elongate side rails,
                a plurality of elongate slats, and
                an elongate member or members which extend substantially parallel to
the side rails,
                the slats extending substantially perpendicular to the side rails and
opposite ends of the slats being supported by each side rail,
                the slats being spaced apart from each other in the lengthwise direction
of the side rails,

                                              7
                 the elongate member or members being positioned beneath the slats in
contact with the underneath side of the slats and the elongate member or members
being connected to a pair of spaced apart cross rails that each connect to a slat of the
plurality of elongate slats.
[0023]      A bed       base   according   to this alternative form      of the   invention
advantageously provides load support to the slats in a manner that is easy and cheap
to install and that is highly effective.
[0024]      A bed base according to this alternative form of the invention does not
include a locator, but can do so. Thus, in the bed base according to this alternative
form of the invention, ends of the slats can be engaged by a locator which is operable
to fix the spacing between at least two slats, the locator including a cover portion to
overlie the opposite ends of the slats and to overlie the spacing between the opposite
ends.
[0025]      The arrangement of the invention can be easily installed. This is because
the locators as discussed above can be pushed onto the slat ends once the slats
have been supported on the side rails, while the brackets that can be used to connect
the elongate member or members to the cross rails and the cross rails to the slats can
be installed without skill and are easily adjustable in position.
[0026]       Moreover, it is expected that the manufacture of the locators and brackets
will most likely be out of plastic and therefore they will be lightweight and cheap. The
elongate members could be manufactured from timber, plastic or aluminium for
example (or other materials as may be appropriate), and again, the type of materials
envisaged are inexpensive.
[0027]      The end result of use of the invention is that both aesthetically and
performance wise, the bed base is improved over prior art slat bed bases known to
applicant. The slats are held more firmly and the load that they are exposed to can be
distributed more evenly depending on which elements of the invention are combined.
[0028]       It is to be noted that a bed base according to the invention can include a
locator, or elongate member or members, or a combination of a locator and elongate
member or members.         In the drawings that follow, that combination is shown.

                                            8
Brief Description of Drawings
[0029]      In order that the invention may be more fully understood, some
embodiments will now be described with reference to the figures in which:
[0030]      Figure 1 is a perspective view of a slat bed base according to one
embodiment of the invention.
[0031]      Figure 2 is a perspective view of a different slat bed base according to
another embodiment of the invention.
[0032]      Figure 3 is a perspective view of a locator for use in the present invention.
[0033]      Figure 4 is a perspective bottom view of a slat arrangement for use in the
present invention.
[0034]      Figures 5 is a bottom perspective view of the slat arrangement of Figure 4
with the slats removed.
[0035]      Figures 6 is a top perspective view of the slat arrangement of Figure 5 with
the slats included.
[0036]      Figure 7 is a perspective view of a bracket according to the present
invention.
[0037]      Figure 8 is a perspective view of another bracket according to the present
invention.
Detailed Description
[0038]      Figure 1 is a perspective view of a slat bed base according to one
embodiment of the invention. The bed base 10 of Figure 1 is a double bed base and
includes an end board 11 at the head end of the base and foot end 12 and side
boards 13, 14. The bed base 10 forms a rectangular frame within which a slat
arrangement 15 is positioned. The slat arrangement 15 includes a plurality of
individual slats 16 that extend generally parallel to the end board 11and generally
perpendicular to the side boards 13, 14. The slats 16 extend completely across the
base 10 from one side board 13 to the other side board 14. Opposite ends of the slats

                                            9
16 are supported or rest on ledges (not shown) that extend inwardly from each of the
side boards 13, 14 and which are stepped lower than the upper surface of the side
boards 13, 14 so that the slats 16 are generally flush with the upper surface of the
side boards 13, 14. The ledges extend along the full length of the side boards 13, 14
between the end board 11 and the foot end 12 and form an upwardly facing
supporting surface on which opposite ends of the slats 16 can rest. The ends of the
slats that are supported by the ledges usually simply sit on the upwardly facing
supporting surface of the ledges and are not otherwise fixed to the ledges. The
inward extent of the ledges can be in the order of about 30mm to 45mm, although
greater or longer extent is possible.
[0039]      Figure 2 is a perspective view of a slat bed base 17 according to another
embodiment of the invention in which the bed base 17 of Figure 2 is a king bed base.
Both of the Figure 1 and Figure 2 arrangements have an end board at the head end
of the base and foot end at the opposite end. Both arrangements also have slats that
extend completely across the bed base from one side board to the other side board
and opposite ends of the slats are supported or rest on ledges (not shown) that
extend inwardly from each of the side boards.           In this respect, the Figure 2
arrangement is essentially the same as the Figure 1 arrangement.         However, the
Figure 2 arrangement differs from the Figure 1 arrangement              by a support
arrangement that is provided underneath the slats.        In Figure 1, a single central
support is provided, while in Figure 2, a pair of supports is provided. These will be
described in detail later herein.
[0040]     The mounting of slats to extend across a bed base and to be supported on
a ledge that is fixed to opposite side boards is an arrangement which has been
employed extensively in the past. In such an arrangement, a mattress can be placed
onto the upper surface of the slats and be supported in that position. A major benefit
of a slat bed arrangement is that the space beneath the slats can be used for storage
purposes, which differs from ensemble-style bed bases, in which the base extends
close to the surface on which the bed is placed and thus the space for storage is
greatly reduced.
[0041]     Another benefit of a slat bed arrangement is that firm mattress support can
be provided at a cost which is generally less than that of an ensemble-style base.

                                            10
[0042]      However, as explained above, by the less than satisfactory location of
slats, damage to the under surface of mattresses has occurred in the past, usually by
the ends of the slats lifting and piercing the under surface of the mattress, while the
aesthetic appearance of slat bases can sometimes be poor, if the slats lose their
parallel and evenly spaced configuration and this can cause consumers to prefer an
ensemble arrangement.
[0043]      Also, many slat arrangements simply provide slats that are supported on
opposite side boards of the bed base, but which provide no load distribution capacity.
These arrangements can provide poor support for mattresses, particularly when one
or more persons are lying on the mattress, as the majority of the load applied to the
slats tends to be applied to a small group of slats, particularly around the centre of the
slat arrangement. In the applicant's previous patent no. 2008201223, the spine
member positioned centrally of the slats provided some load distribution as did the
"limiter" shown by reference numeral 51 in Figure 1 of patent 2008201223.
[0044]      The inventor has thus developed the bed base in which opposite ends of
the slats of the slat arrangement are securely located relative to each other, while
location and support is provided centrally of the slats or inboard of the side boards as
described hereinafter.
[0045]      With reference to Figures 1 and 2, the same reference numerals are used
to describe the same features. Accordingly, each end of the slats 16 is located within
a locator 20. In Figures 1 and 2, four locators 20 are shown in place on either side of
the bed bases 10 and 17, or in other words, along each of the side boards 13, 14.
[0046]      Figure 3 illustrates a single locator 20 in isolation and shown from
underneath. Each locator 20 has the same form and with reference to Figure 3,
includes a top cover 21, a rear wall 22 and side walls 23. The locator 20 further
includes a castellated front wall or configuration, comprising wall sections 24 that
connect to and extend perpendicular to the side walls 23, and intermediate wall
sections 25. The spacing S between the wall sections 24, 25 is slightly greater than
the width W (see Figure 2) of the slats 16.
[0047]      The length of the locators 20 as measured between the side walls 23 is
selected so that four locators 20 can fit snuggly between the end board 11 and the

                                             11
foot end 12 as shown in Figure 1. This of course can vary and so for example, the
length of the locator 20 can be such that a single locator extends the full length
between the end board 11 and the foot end 12, or two locators can extend the full
length between the end board 11 and the foot end 12. Alternatively, four or more
locators could extend the full length between the end board 11 and the foot end 12.
[0048]      The length of the locators 20 can be such that the side walls 23 of the
locators 20 that face the respective end board 11 and the foot end 12 are in close
facing relationship with the board 11 and end 12 or in fact are in touching relationship
with them. This limits the amount of movement that the locators can have and thus
also limits movement of the slats 16.
[0049]      As will be evident from Figures 1 and 2, the ends of the slats 16 are
captured either between wall sections 24, 25, or between a pair of wall sections 25 of
a locator 20 and this serves to properly space the slat ends apart evenly over the
length of the bed base between the end board 11 and the foot end 12. It is to be
noted that outside surfaces of side walls 23 of adjacent locators 20 are in close facing
or touching engagement as shown in Figures 1 and 2. This is ensured by forming the
wall sections 24 of the locators 20 to have a length equal to half the spacing between
adjacent slats 16.
[0050]      It follows that once the slats have been positioned between the end board
11 and the foot end 12 and are resting on or supported by the ledges, the locators 20
can be pushed in place so that the top cover 21 of each locator 20 overlies the ends
of the slats 16, the rear wall 22 either abuts against or is in close facing relationship
with the end edges of the slats 16 and the wall sections 24, 25 are positioned
alongside side edges of the slats 16. The slats 16 that are captured between the wall
sections 24, 25 are therefore held properly parallel to one another and spaced apart,
while the overlying nature of the top cover 21 over the ends of the slats 16 ensures
the ends of the slats 16 cannot pierce a mattress that is supported by the slat
arrangement 15 and it also provides an aesthetically pleasingly appearance. In this
respect, there can be slight variation in the length of one slat compared to another
and this again can create an unsatisfactory visual appearance to consumers who
visually inspect a slat bed base. As shown in Figures 1 and 2, the arrangement of the

                                               12
locators provides a very neat visual appearance which is expected to improve
customer acceptance of slat bed bases.
[0051]       Further advantageously, the locators 20 are simple to install, because they
simply push on to the end sections of the slats 16 once the slats have been installed.
Where the slats 16 are not parallel to one another, or the spacing between them is
uneven, installation of the locators 20 will correct this. Moreover, there is virtually no
possibility of the locators lifting away from their position once installed because the
mattress is located over the slat arrangement 15 and this will bear downwardly on the
top cover 21 of the locators 20 ensuring that they remain in place.
[0052]       While not illustrated in the figures, if necessary, the locators can be fixed to
the ends of the slats 16 by screws or nails. Thus, in an embodiment which is not
illustrated, openings are provided in the top cover 21 through which nails or screws
can be driven. It is not expected however that fixing of this kind would be necessary,
although where there is frequent removal and replacement of mattresses, for example
in hospitals or hotels, fixing of the locators 20 to the slats 16 might be considered
appropriate, so that the potential for the locators 20 lifting away from the slats 20 and
needing to be reinstalled would be eliminated.
[0053]       Figure 1 shows a central beam or member 30 located beneath the slats 16
while Figure 2 shows a pair of beams or rails 30 (hereinafter "rails 30") again located
beneath the slats 16. As explained earlier herein, this difference occurs as a result of
the difference in size between the bed bases 10 and 17 of Figures 1 and 2
respectively. However, the actual manner of attachment of the beams 30 to the slat
arrangement 15 in Figures 1 and 2 is the same.                 To explain that manner of
attachment, reference will be made to Figures 4 to 6, that have been prepared in
relation to the Figure 2 arrangement, but it is to be noted that the same basic form of
attachment is applicable also to the Figure 1 arrangement .
[0054]       Figure 4 shows the slat arrangement 15 of Figure 2 separate from the
other components shown in Figure 2. Figure 4 thus shows slats 16 and rails 30, and
a single cross beam 31. The rails 30 connect at either end to a cross beam 31 and so
in practice, a pair of cross beams 31 is employed.           However, for the purposes of
explanation, the second cross beam 31 is omitted from Figure 4. The second cross

                                             13
beam 31 is shown in Figure 5 but again, for the purposes of explanation, in Figure 5
the slats 16 are omitted.
[0055]       It can be seen from figures 4 and 5 that the rails 30 extend between and
connect to cross beams 31 at either end. The connection is made by brackets 32,
one of which is illustrated in Figure 7.     The bracket 32 includes a recess 33, into
which an end of a rail 30 can be inserted and supported. The recess includes a base
34, from which an upstanding spigot or boss 35 extends, and this spigot or boss 35
can be provided to engage within an opening or bore that is provided in the end of a
rail 30. This simply helps to secure the end of the rail 30 within the recess 33.
[0056]      The bracket 32 has a bridging portion 36 and a lip 37. The bridging portion
36 overlies an upper surface of a cross beam 31 while the lip 37 extends over the rear
surface of a cross beam 31 as is evident from the assembled illustration of the rails 30
and cross beams 31 shown in Figure 5. In that figure, the lips 37 can be seen, while
the bridging portion 36 extends over the upper surface of the cross beams 31 (which
is not visible in Figure 5).
[0057]       Figure 4 also illustrates the brackets 32 at opposite ends of the rails 30,
and at one end of the rails 30, there is connection between the brackets 32 and a
cross beam 31, while the other end, cross beam 31 is omitted, but the brackets are
ready for overlying connection with a cross beam 31.
[0058]      The brackets 32 are not fixed to the cross beams 31, other than by
connection between the bridging portion 36 and the lip 37. Thus, the brackets 32 are
free to traverse along length of the cross beams 31 so that they can be appropriately
positioned to locate the rails 30. The brackets 32 are therefore easy to fit to the cross
beams 31 and are easy to position. The brackets 32 can be fixed to the cross beams
31 if desired and after the ends of the rails 30 have been secured by them.
[0059]      The cross beams 31 connect to a slat 16 via a further bracket 40. The
brackets 40 are shown in Figures 4 to 6 in connection with slats 16, while an isolated
view of the bracket 40 is shown in Figure 8.
[0060]      The brackets 40 include an upper cavity or void 41 and a lower cavity or
void 42. The upper cavity 41 is for receiving a slat 16, while the lower cavity 42 is for

                                               14
receiving a cross beam 31. In Figure 4, the single cross beam 31 is shown received
within a pair of brackets 40 at either end and within the cavity 42 of the bracket 40. In
addition, the four brackets shown in Figure 4 are all shown having received a slat 16
within the upper cavity 41.
[0061]       With reference to Figure 5, the slats 16 have been omitted, but in that
figure, it can be seen that each of the two cross beams 31 have been received in the
lower cavity or void 42 of the brackets 40.
[0062]       The bracket 40 includes ledge portions 43 and a bridging portion 44 to form
the upper cavity 41. The internal spacing between the ledges 43 and the bridging
portion 44 is determined by the thickness of the slats 16 and the spacing is set so that
the slats 16 form a close or snug fit within the upper cavity 41.
[0063]       The bracket 40 also has a base 45 and side walls 46 with the side walls
being spaced apart slightly greater than the width of the cross beams 31, while the
distance between the base 45 and the ledge portions 43 is selected to be
substantially the same as the height of the cross beams 31. In this manner, the
cavities 41 and 42 form a close fit about the slats 16 and the cross beams 31.
[0064]       The brackets 40 are a sliding fit on the slats 16. As shown in Figure 8, the
brackets 40 can include a spigot or boss 47 extending upwardly form the base 45 to
be received in a complementary opening or bore in the cross beams 31.
[0065]       Like the bracket 32, the brackets 40 are simple to fit onto the ends of the
cross beams 31, while it is also a simple process to fit the brackets 40 onto ends of
slats 16.
[0066]       The assembled arrangement is shown in Figure 6, in which the bridging
portion 44 of the bracket 40, is shown overlying upper surfaces of slats 16 and the
rails 30 are shown extending between the crossbeams 31. Other than the bridging
portions 44 of the brackets 40, other sections of the brackets 40 are not visible.
[0067]       It will be appreciated that the use of brackets 32 and 40 make assembly of
the rails 30 and cross beams 31 are quite simple. The provision of the rails 30 and
the cross beams 31 is for load distribution and given that most load is applied to a slat
arrangement 15 towards the middle of the arrangement 15, the load applied to the

                                            15
slats 16 at that position bears against the rails 30 and that load is transmitted to the
cross beams 31 and is thus distributed to the other slats 16 of the slat arrangement
15.
[0068]      The present invention as illustrated in the figures provides significant
advantages over slat bases of which the applicant is currently aware. Firstly, the ends
of the slats 16 are properly secured and are covered by the locators 20 and thus the
potential for them to damage the underside of a mattress is negligible. In addition, the
locators provide an aesthetic appearance which is highly desirable. It is to be noted
that, as shown in Figure 1, logos or wording can be applied to the upper surface or
visible surface of the locators 20 or they can be coloured or otherwise made to have
an appearance which is aesthetically pleasing. The locators are easy to install and
can be fixed in place if necessary as described above. The locators are easy to
manufacture from moulded plastic.
[0069]      The members 30 also assist to improve the performance of a slat bed, by
additional load distribution which means that the slat arrangement 15 can more firmly
support a mattress and loads that are placed on the mattress. The invention thus
meets requirements in terms of appropriate mattress support and good aesthetic
appearance.
[0070]      A further significant advantage provided by the present invention is that
there is not expected to be any need for central leg support to be provided to the bed
base 10. In many other bed arrangements, particularly ensembles, one or more legs
or feet are provided centrally of the ensemble to support the mattress centrally. That
support is in addition to the corner supports that are provided where the end boards
11, 12 meet the side boards 13, 14 and any intermediate supports that are provided
along the side boards 13, 14. Such central support limits the availability to use the
space underneath the bed for storage, as it presents an impediment to large objects
that might wish to be stored under the bed (suitcases for example). In the present
invention, it is expected that the bed base 10 will only require supports at the corners
where the end board 11 and the foot end 12 meet the side boards 13, 14.
[0071]      The invention described herein is susceptible to variations, modifications
and/or additions other than those specifically described and it is to be understood that

                                            16
the invention includes all such variations, modifications and/or additions which fall
within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.
[0072]     Throughout the description and claims of the specification, the word
"comprise" and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not
intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.

                                              17
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1. A bed base including:
               a pair of spaced apart, parallel and elongate side rails, and
               a plurality of elongate slats,
               the slats extending substantially perpendicular to the side rails and
       opposite ends of the slats being supported by each side rail,
               the slats being spaced apart from each other in the lengthwise direction
       of the side rails,
               opposite ends of a plurality of slats being engaged by a locator which is
       operable to fix the spacing between at least two slats, the locator including a
       cover portion to overlie the opposite ends of the slats and to overlie the
       spacing between the opposite ends.
2. A bed base according to claim 1, the cover portion being rectangular and
   extending parallel to the side rails.
3. A bed base according to claim 2, the locator having end walls extending
   downwardly from the cover portion at each lengthwise end of the cover portion for
   facing side surfaces of slats that the cover portion overlies.
4. A bed base according to claim 3, the locator having a rear wall that extends
   downwardly from the cover portion for facing end surfaces of slats that the cover
   portion overlies.
5. A bed base according to claim 4, the rear wall extending continuously between the
   end walls.
6. A bed base according to any one of claims 2 to 5, the locator having at least one
   location portion that extends downwardly from the cover portion to a position
   between a pair of adjacent slats such that engagement between side surfaces of

                                          18
   the slats the location portion defines the minimum spacing between the pair of
   slats.
7. A bed base according to claim 6, the locator being operable to fix the minimum
   spacing between three or more slats and having a plurality of location portions for
   location in positions between respective pairs of slats.
8. A bed base according to claim 6 or 7, the locator having a front wall portion that
   extends downwardly from the cover portion that is formed with a plurality of
   openings that define one or more location portions, opposite ends of the slats
   extending through the openings to a position underlying the top cover.
9. A bed base according to claim 8, the front wall portion being formed with four
   openings.
10.A bed base according to any one of claims 1 to 9, further including an elongate
   member which is positioned substantially centrally of the slats and the slats
   extending through openings formed in the elongate member, the openings being a
   close fit about the slats and the openings being spaced apart from each other
   lengthwise of the elongate member at a distance to maintain the slats generally
   parallel to each other.
11.A bed base according to any one of claims 1 to 10, further including a cross
   member that connects to a slat towards each of opposite ends of the slat, the
   cross member being placed in tension.
12.A bed base according to claim 11, the cross members being adjustable in tension.
13.A bed base according to claim 11 or 12, the cross members being formed from
   wire or cable.
14.A bed base according to any one of claims 11 to 13, including a plurality of cross
   members that connect respectively to a plurality of slats.

                                               19
15.     A bed base including:
                a pair of spaced apart, parallel and elongate side rails,
                a plurality of elongate slats, and
                an elongate member or members which extend substantially parallel to
the side rails,
                the slats extending substantially perpendicular to the side rails and
opposite ends of the slats being supported by each side rail,
                the slats being spaced apart from each other in the lengthwise direction
of the side rails,
                the elongate member or members being positioned beneath the slats in
contact with the underneath side of the slats and the elongate member or members
being connected to a pair of spaced apart cross rails that each connect to a slat of the
plurality of elongate slats.
16.A bed base according to claim 15, the elongate member or members being
    operable to distribute load across the plurality of slats.
17. A bed base according to 15 or 16, each of the opposite ends of the slats being
    engaged by a locator which is operable to fix the spacing between at least two
    slats, the locator including top a portion to overlie the opposite ends of the slats
    and to overlie the spacing between the opposite ends.
18.A bed base according to any one of claims 15 to 17, including a single elongate
    member which is positioned substantially centrally of the slats on the underneath
    of the slats between the side rails and which extends substantially parallel to the
    side rails.

                                              20
19. A bed base according to any one of claims 15 to 17, including a pair of elongate
    members that are spaced apart equidistantly between the side rails on the
    underneath of the slats and that extend substantially parallel to the side rails.
20.A bed base according to claim 18 or 19, the elongate member or members being
    in contact with the underneath surface of the slats for the purpose of bearing and
    distributing weight that is applied to the top surface of the slats.
21.A bed base according to any one of claims 15 to 20, the elongate member or
    members being supported at each end.
22. A bed base according to any one of claims 15 to 20, the elongate member or
    members being supported intermediate each end.
23.A bed base according to any one of claims 15 to 22, connection between the
    elongate member or members and the cross rails being by a bracket.
24.A bed base according to claim 23, each bracket being of a form that receives the
    end of an elongate member in a recess.
25.A bed base according to claim 23 or 24, each bracket being of a form that
    connects to each cross rail by resting on a top surface of the cross rail.
26.A bed base according to claim 25, each bracket including a hook type member
    that hooks over the top of a cross rail and that hooks onto the back of the cross
    rail.
27.A bed base according to any one of claims 15 to 26, ends of the slats being
    engaged by a locator which is operable to fix the spacing between at least two
    slats, the locator including a cover portion to overlie the opposite ends of the slats
    and to overlie the spacing between the opposite ends.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
