64538
                                                  ABSTRACT
        Solutions   for   perioperative  intraocular   application   by    continuous    irrigation   during
                                                                                         agents that act to
        ophthalmologic procedures are provided. These solutions include multiple
                                                                                                    decrease
        inhibit inflammation, inhibit pain, effect mydriasis (dilation of the pupil), and/or
      5 intraocular pressure, wherein the multiple agents are selected to target multiple molecular targets
                                                                                                         in a
        to achieve multiple differing physiologic functions, and are included in dilute concentrations
        balanced salt solution carrier.

                                             -1
        OPHTHALMOLOGIC IRRIGATION SOLUTIONS AND METHOD
        This application is a divisional of Australian patent application no. <removed-apn>, the entire
disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                    I.   Field ofthe Invention
         The present invention relates to surgical irrigation solutions and methods, and
 particularly to irrigation solutions for use during ophthalmologic procedures.
                               11.     Background ofthe Invention
          Ophthalmologic surgery typically requires the use of a physiologic irrigation
 solution to protect and maintain the physiological integrity of intraocular tissues.
 Examples of ophthalmologic surgical procedures usually requiring irrigation solutions
 are cataract    operations, comeal transplant operations, vitreoretinal operations and
 trabeculectomy operations for glaucoma.
          Solutions that have been used in ophthalmologic surgical irrigation include
 normal saline, lactated Ringer's solution and Hartmann's lactated Ringer's solution, but
 these are not optimal due to potential unfavorable corneal and endothelial effects. Other
 aqueous solutions that include agents such as electrolytes, buffering agents for pH
 adjustment, glutathione and/or energy sources such as dextrose, better protect the tissues
 of the eye, but do not address other physiologic processes associated with surgery.
 One commonly used solution for ophthalmologic irrigation is a two part buffered
 electrolyte and glutathione solution disclosed inU.S. Patent 4,550,022 to Garabedian et
 al., the disclosure of which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference. The two
 parts of this solution are mixed just prior to administration to ensure stability. These
 solutions are formulated with a goal of maintaining the health of ocular tissues during
 surgery.

                                                -2
              Modifications of conventional aqueous irrigation solutions by the addition of
    therapeutic agents have been proposed. For example, U.S. Patent 5,523,316 to Gan
    et al. discloses the addition of one or more agents for controlling intraocular pressure
    to irrigation solutions. Specific examples of agents for controlling intraocular
 5 'pressure disclosed in the Gan et al patent, all disclosure of which is hereby
    incorporated by reference, are beta-blockers (i.e., beta adrenergic receptor
    antagonists) and alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonists. Reference is also made to
    muscarinic agonists, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, angiostatic steroids and
    prostaglandins as classes of drugs that control intraocular pressure. Only agents
10   intended for the control of intraocular pressure are envisioned.
               Another example of a modified solution is disclosed in International PCT
     Application WO 94/08602 in the name of inventors Gan et al., the disclosure of
     which is hereby incorporated by reference. This application discloses the inclusion
     of a mydriatic agent, such as epinephrine, in ocular irrigation solutions. Still another
15   example is provided by International PCT Application WO 95/16435 in the name of
     inventors Cagle et al., which discloses the inclusion of non-steroidal anti
     inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in an ophthalmologic irrigation solution.
               A topical ophthalmologic solution is disclosed in US Patent 5,811,446 to
     Thomas that includes histidine, and which may include at least one other active agent
20    such as an anti-glaucoma agent, such as timolol or phenylephrine, a steroid or an
      NSAID. This reference teaches application of the composition to limit the
      inflammation associated with ophthalmic procedures. The solution is administered
      by a dropper into the cul-de-sac of the eye.
               US Patent 5,624,893 to Yanni includes compositions including a wound
25    healing agent, such as a steroid or a growth factor, and/or a pain mediator, such as an
      NSAID, a bradykinin antagonist, or a neurokinin-l antagonist. The compositions are
      intended for the treatment and prevention of corneal haze associated with laser
      irradiation and photoablation.
                Although many topically applied agents are available or have been proposed
 30    to treat ocular inflammation, produce mydriasis (typically necessary to perform many
       types of ophthalmologic surgery), or to control intraocular pressure, no previous
       attempt has been made to combine these agents for use in a perioperative ocular
       irrigation solution that is delivered in such a way so as to provide a constant,
       controlled delivery of multiple therapeutic agents, that act on multiple molecular
 35    targets to address multiple physiologic functions, to the tissues of the eye throughout
       a procedure.

                                                 -3
              Various methods of ocular drug delivery are conventionally employed, each
    of which has limitations. These limitations may include comeal and conjuctival
    toxicity, tissue injury, globe perforation, optic nerve trauma, central retinal artery
    and/or vein occlusion, direct retinal drug toxicity, and systemic side effects. For
 5  example, topical medications applied drop-wise are frequently impeded in reaching a
    targeted ocular site due to the eye's natural protective surface. In many situations, a
    rather small percentage of the medication applied to the surface of the eye will
     actually reach the desired therapeutic site of action.
              One difficulty in ocular drug delivery during surgical procedures is to achieve
10   the desired therapeutic concentration levels with the proper temporal control. The
     most desired pharmacokinetic effect is to be able to rapidly achieve a therapeutic
     concentration range and subsequently maintain the drug concentration at a constant
     level. This is not achieved by conventional methods of ocular drug delivery. The
     challenge of achieving similar pharmacokinetic profiles is substantially compounded
15   when it is desirable to simultaneously deliver more than one drug. A unique group of
      factors affect the ability of a drug to penetrate the corneal epithelia, including the size
      of the molecule, its chemical structure and its solubility characteristics.
               To achieve sufficient concentration of drug delivered to the back of the eye,
      drugs are frequently administered systemically at very high doses. These levels are
20    necessary to overcome the blood-retina barrier that protects the back of the eye from
      selected drug molecules coming from the blood stream. For surgical procedures,
      injectable drug solutions are sometimes injected directly into the back of the eye.
       Subconjuctival and peribulbar periocular injections are used when higher local
       concentrations are needed and when drugs with poor penetration characteristics need
 25    to be delivered. Intracameral injections directly into the anterior chamber are used in
       cataract surgery. While intracameral injection provides a prompt method of
       achieving a concentration, it can be associated'with corneal toxicity. However, this
       method suffers from the fact that these drugs are quickly removed by the eye's natural
       circulatory process. Thus, injectable solutions rapidly lose their therapeutic benefit,
 30     often necessitating frequent, large dose injections that can carry toxicity risks.
        Sustained release formulations, such as viscoelastic gels containing microcapsules,
        may be injected intraocularly for a longer duration of action. However, there may be
        some delay in reaching a local therapeutic concentration of drug. Hence, there exists
        a need for controlled methods of ocular delivery during ophthalmologic procedures.

                                                  -4
                                   III.   Summary of the Invention
               The present invention provides solutions for local ocular delivery of multiple
     active agents that act on a plurality of differing molecular targets to perioperatively
                                                                                             to
     inhibit inflammation, inhibit pain, effect mydriasis (dilation of the pupil), and/or
 5   decrease intraocular pressure. The solutions and methods of the present invention
     use at least first and second therapeutic agents that are selected from the physiologic
     functional classes of anti-inflammatory agents, analgesic agents, mydriatic agents and
     agents for decreasing intraocular pressure ("IOP reducing agents"), the second agent
                                                                                   or functions
     providing at least one physiologic function different than a function
                                                                                by continuous
10    provided by the first agent. The solutions are preferably applied
                                                                                  the operative
      irrigation of ocular tissues at the site of surgery during a majority of
      procedure.
               Solutions of this aspect of the present invention may include: (a) one or more
      anti-inflammatory agents in combination with one or more analgesic agents, and
                                                                             and/or mydriatic
15     optionally may also include one or more IOP reducing agents
                                                                                   one or more
       agents; (b) one or more anti-inflammatory agents in combination with
       IOP reducing agents, and optionally one or more analgesic and/or mydriatic agents;
                                                                               more mydriatic
       (c) one or more anti-inflammatory agents in combination with one or
       agents, and optionally one or more analgesic agents and/or IOP -reducing agents; (d)
20     one or more analgesic agents in combination with one or more IOP reducing agents,
       and optionally one or more anti-inflammatory agents and/or mydriatic agents; (e) one
        or more analgesic agents in combination with one or more mydriatic agents, and
        optionally one or more anti-inflammatory agents and/or IOP reducing agents; or (f)
        one or more mydriatic agents in combination with one or more IOP reducing agents,
 25     and optionally one or more anti-inflammatory and/or analgesic agents.
                The present invention provides a solution constituting. a mixture of multiple
        agents in low concentrations directed at inhibiting locally the mediators of pain,
        inflammation, reducing       intraocular pressure and/or causing mydriasis, in a
        physiologic electrolyte carrier fluid. The invention also provides a method for
 30     perioperative delivery of the irrigation- solution containing these agents directly to a
        surgical site, where it works locally at the receptor and enzyme levels to preemptively
        limit pain and inflammation, reduce intraocular pressure and/or cause mydriasis, at
        the site. Due to the local perioperative delivery method of the present invention, a
         desired therapeutic effect can be nearly instantaneously achieved with lower doses of
  35     agents than are necessary when employing systemic methods of delivery (e.g.,

                                                  -5
    intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous and oral) or by injection. When applied by
                                                                                              a
    continuous irrigation during a majority of the procedure, in accordance with
                                                                                   lower than
    preferred aspect of the invention, concentrations of agents utilized may be
    if the agents were applied drop-wise in a single application or by intraocular
 5  injection.
                                                                                     types of
               The present invention has several advantages over other
     compositions and methods for delivery of active agents during intraocular surgery.
                                                                                       agent to
    Liquid compositions for topical drop-wise instillation of a pharmaceutical
     the eye do not always provide an accurate method for delivering a defined dosage,
10   because portions of the drop are either blinked away or drain away during
     administration. Furthermore, subsequent use of a normal irrigation solution can be
     anticipated to effectively dilute and remove a dose delivered drop-wise delivered to
     the eye during an intraocular or topical ophthalmologic procedure before the start of
      the surgical procedure, thereby reducing the therapeutic efficacy of the agent.
15              In addition, the increased time over which the drugs can be delivered in
      accordance with the present invention via irrigation during an intraocular or topical
                                                                                          in the
      ophthalmologic procedure allows a lower concentration of the drugs to be used
      irrigation solution, which reduces the risk of ocular-toxicity. Due to pharmacokinetic
      considerations, doses of agents delivered only pre-operatively will exhibit a variable
20     concentration and efficacy as a function of time, reaching a peak of effectiveness
       some time after the initial application, then subsequently declining in efficacy due to
       a progressively decreasing concentration. The particular pharmacokinetic parameters
       after topical instillation of a drug will vary for each drug depending on the solubility
       characteristics of the agent, the vehicle composition, and the pH, osmolality, tonicity
 25    and viscosity of the formulation. One advantage of the invention is that the irrigation
       solutions provided maintain a constant concentration of active agents at the ocular
       surgery site, therebyrniintaining a constant therapeutic effect.
                 The present invention provides for controlled, site-specific drug delivery to
       the eye for the dual purposes of increasing efficacy and decreasing side effects of
 30     ocular therapy.       A therapeutic concentration range is rapidly achieved, and is
        subsequently maintained at an effectively constant level during the period of
        irrigation.
                 The present invention also provides a method for manufacturing a
        medicament compounded as a dilute irrigation solution for use in continuously
 35     irrigating an operative site or wound during an operative procedure. The method
         entails dissolving in a physiologic electrolyte carrier fluid a plurality of analgesic

                                                 -6
                                                               and/or agents that decrease
     agents, anti-inflammatory agents, mydriatic agents,
     intraocular pressure ("IOP reducing agents"), each agent included at a concentration
                                                                    preferably no more than
     of preferably no more than 100,000 nanomolar, and more
                                                                      may be applied at a
     10,000 nanomolar, except for local anesthetics, which
                                                                                        than
 5   concentration of no more than 100,000,000 nanomolar, preferably no more
                                                                         nanomolar, and still
      10,000,000 nanomolar, more preferably no more than 1,000,000
     more preferably no more than 100,000 nanomolar.
               The method of the present invention provides for the delivery of a dilute
                                                                                         and
      combination of multiple receptor antagonists and agonists and enzyme inhibitors
10    activators directly to a wound or operative or procedural site of the eye, during
                                                                     inhibition of pain and
      surgical, therapeutic or diagnostic procedures for the
                                                                                           of
      inflammation, reduction or control of intraocular pressure, and/or the promotion
                                                                                      applied
      mydriasis. Because the active ingredients in the solution are being locally
      directly to the ocular tissues in a continuous fashion during the procedure, the drugs
                                                                                          for
15    may be used efficaciously at extremely low doses relative to those doses required
      therapeutic effect when the same drugs are delivered systemically (e.g., orally,
                                                                                            as
      intramuscularly, subcutaneously or intravenously), or in a single application such
       drop-wise or by intraocular injection.
                As used herein, the term "local" encompasses application of a drug in and
20     around a wound or other operative or procedural site, and excludes oral,
       subcutaneous, intravenous and intramuscular administration.            As used herein
                                                                                            or
       throughout, the term "irrigation" is intended to mean the flushing of a wound
       anatomic structure with a stream of liquid. The term "continuous" as used herein
                                                                                          at a
       encompasses uninterrupted application, repeated application at frequent intervals
                                                                                         local
 25    frequency sufficient to substantially maintain a predetermined therapeutic
        concentration of the applied agents, and applications which are uninterrupted except
        for brief 'cessations sich is to permit the introduction of other drugs or procedural
                                                                        substantially constant
        equipment or due to operative technique, such that a
                                                                                 the wound or
        predetermined therapeutic local concentration is maintained locally at
 30     operative site.
                 As used herein, the term "wound", unless otherwise specified, is intended to
        include surgical wounds, operative/interventional sites and traumatic wounds.
                 As used herein, the terms "operative" and "procedural", unless otherwise
                                                                               and diagnostic
         specified, are each intended to include surgical, therapeutic
  35     procedures.

                                                    -7
               The irrigation solution including selected therapeutic agents is locally and
                                                                                intraocularly for
     perioperatively applied to ocular tissues of the operative site, e.g.,
     intraocular procedures and to the exterior of the eye for superficial procedures. As
     used herein, the term "perioperative" encompasses application intraprocedurally, pre
                                                                                     intra- and
 5   and intraprocedurally, intra- and postprocedurally, and pre-,
     postprocedurally.         Preferably, the solution is applied preprocedurally and/or
                                                                                          is most
     postprocedurally as well as intraprocedurally. The irrigation solution
                                                                        to the initiation of the
     preferably applied to the wound or surgical site prior
                                                                                  throughout the
     procedure, or before substantial tissue trauma, and continuously
10    duration of the procedure, to preemptively block pain and inflammation, inhibit
                                                                                                the
      intraocular pressure increases, and/or cause mydriasis. In a preferred aspect of
      invention, continuous irrigation is delivered throughout a substantial portion of the
                                                                                                the
      procedure, before and during the majority of operative trauma, and/or during
                                                                                                 be
      period when mydriasis may be required and/or control of intraocular pressure may
15    required.
                The advantages of low dose application of agents by irrigation with the
       methods and solutions of the present invention are three-fold. Systemic side effects
       that often limit the usefulness of these agents are avoided. Additionally, the agents
       selected for particular applications in the solutions of the present invention are highly
20     specific with regard to the mediators on which they work.               This specificity is
       maintained by the low dosages utilized. Finally, the cost of these active agents per
       operative procedure is low.
                More particularly: (1) local administration guarantees a known concentration
        at the target site, regardless of interpatient variability in metabolism, blood flow, etc.;
                                                                                        is obtained
 25     (2) because of the direct mode of delivery, a therapeutic concentration
       nearly instantaneously and, thus, improved dosage control is provided; and (3) local
        administration of the' active agents directly to a wound or opdfative site also
        substantially reduces degradation of the agents through extracellular processes, e.g.,
        first- and second-pass metabolism, that would otherwise occur if the agents were
  30    given systemically (e.g., orally, intravenously, subcutaneously or intramuscularly).
        This is particularly true for those active agents that are peptides, which are
         metabolized rapidly. Thus, local administration permits the use of compounds or
                                                                                         continuous
         agents which otherwise could not be employed therapeutically. Local,
         delivery to the wound or operative site minimizes drug degradation or metabolism
                                                                                                 that
  35     while also providing for the continuous replacement of that portion of the agent
                                                                                       sufficient to
         may be degraded, to ensure that a local therapeutic concentration,

                                                  -8
                                                                               of the operative
     maintain receptor occupancy, is maintained throughout the duration
     procedure.
              Local administration of the solution perioperatively throughout a surgical
     procedure in accordance with the present invention produces preemptive analgesic,
 5   anti-inflammatory and/or control of intraocular pressure effects (if an IOP reducing
                                                                                              To
     agent is used), while maintaining mydriasis (if a mydriatic agent is used).
     maximize the preemptive anti-inflammatory, analgesic (for certain applications), IOP
     reduction (for certain applications) and mydriatic (for certain applications) effects,
                                                                                              and
      the solutions of the present invention are most preferably applied pre-, intra-
10   postoperatively. By occupying the targeted receptors or inactivating or activating
                                                                                              the
      targeted enzymes prior to the initiation of significant operative trauma locally,
                                                                                      inhibit  the
      agents of the present solution modulate specific pathways to preemptively
      targeted pathologic processes.         If inflammatory mediators and processes are
                                                                                  they can exert
      preemptively inhibited in accordance with the present invention before
15    tissue damage, and the mediators of increases in intraocular pressure are likewise
                                                                                     after these
       preemptively inhibited, the benefit is more substantial than if given
       processes have been initiated.
                The irrigation solutions of the present invention include combinations of
                                                                                drug agents are
       drugs, each solution acting on multiple receptors or enzymes. The
20     thus simultaneously effective against a combination of pathologic processes,
       including pain and inflammation, and/or processes mediating increases in intraocular
       pressure. The action of these agents is expected to be synergistic, in that the multiple,
                                                                           invention provide a
       receptor antagonists and inhibitory agonists of the present
                                                                         to the efficacy of the
        disproportionately increased efficacy in combination relative
 25     individual agents.
                Used perioperatively, the solution should result in a clinically significant
        decrease in operative site~pain and inflammation relative to ~criently usedifrigatiofi
        fluids, thereby decreasing the patient's postoperative analgesic requirement and,
        where appropriate, allowing earlier patient recovery. It is also expected that
                                                                              the need to treat
 30     preemptively controlling intraocular pressure should decrease
         elevated intraocular procedure postoperatively.
                        IV.   Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiment
                                                                                              local
                 The present invention provides irrigation solutions for perioperative
                                                                                            which
         application to ocular tissues, including intraocular and topical application,
  35     include multiple agents that act to inhibit inflammation, inhibit pain, effect mydriasis

                                                 -9
                                                                         pressure; wherein the
     (dilation of the pupil), and/or to decrease or control intraocular
                                                                              targets to achieve
     multiple agents are selected to act on multiple, differing molecular
                                                                                     the present
     multiple differing physiologic functions. The irrigation solutions of
     invention are dilute solutions of multiple pain/inflammation inhibitory agents, IOP
                                                                                          carrier.
 5   reducing agents, and/or mydriatic agents in a physiologic liquid irrigation
     The carrier is suitably an aqueous solution that may include physiologic electrolytes,
                                                                                      the carrier
      such as normal saline or lactated Ringer's solution. More preferably,
      includes sufficient electrolytes to provide a physiological balanced salt solution, a
      cellular energy source, a buffering agent and a free-radical scavenger.
                                                                                            one or
10              A solution in accordance with the present invention can include (a)
      more anti-inflammatory agents in combination with one or more analgesic agents,
       and optionally may also include one or more agents that act to reduce intraocular
                                                                                   or more anti
      pressure ("IOP reducing agents") and/or mydriatic agents; (b) one
       inflammatory agents in combination with one or more IOP reducing agents, and
                                                                         (c) one or more anti
15     optionally one or more analgesic and/or mydriatic agents;
       inflammatory agents in combination with one or more mydriatic agents, and
                                                                                 (d) one or more
       optionally one or more analgesic agents and/or IOP reducing agents;
                                                                                                and
        analgesic agents in combination with one or more IOP reducing agents,
                                                                               agents;  (e)  one  or
        optionally one or more anti-inflammatory agents and/or mydriatic
20      more analgesic agents in combination with one or more mydriatic agents, and
                                                                                              or (f)
        optionally one or more anti-inflammatory agents and/or IOP reducing agents;
        one or more mydriatic agents in combination with one or more IOP reducing agents,
        and optionally one or more anti-inflammatory and/or analgesic agents.
                 Any of these solutions of the present invention may also include one or more
 25     antibiotic agents. Suitable antibiotics for use in the present invention include
                                                                                           that are
        ciprofloxacin, gentamicin, tobramycin and ofloxacin. Other antibiotics
         suitable for p6ri6perative intraocular use ard also endinpassed by the
                                                                                            present
                                                                                                 the
         invention. Suitable concentrations for one antibiotic suitably included in
                                                                                               to 10
         irrigation solutions of the present invention, ciprofloxacin, are 0.01 millimolar
  30     millimolar, preferably 0.05 millimolar to 3 millimolar, most preferably 0.1
                                                                                           different
         millimolar to 1 millimolar. Different antibiotics will be applied at
         concentrations, as may be readily determined.
                  In each of the surgical solutions of the present invention, the agents are
                                                                                                   to
         included in low concentrations and are delivered locally in low doses relative
  35      concentrations and doses required with conventional methods of drug administration
          to achieve the desired therapeutic effect. It is impossible to obtain an equivalent

                                                  -10
     therapeutic effect by delivering similarly dosed agents via systemic (e.g., intravenous,
     subcutaneous, intramuscular or oral) routes of drug administration since drugs given
     systemically are subject to first- and second-pass metabolism.
                                                                                            on its
                The concentration of each agent may be determined in part based
                                                                                     constant" is
 5    dissociation constant, Kd. As used herein, the term "dissociation
                                                                                    its respective
      intended to encompass both the equilibrium dissociation constant for
      agonist-receptor or antagonist-receptor interaction and the equilibrium inhibitory
                                                                                              Each
      constant for its respective activator-enzyme or inhibitor-enzyme interaction.
                                                                                        Kd, except
      agent is preferably included at a low concentration of 0.1 to 10,000 times
10     for cyclooxygenase inhibitors, which may be required at larger concentrations
                                                                            agent is included at a
       depending on the particular inhibitor selected. Preferably, each
       concentration of 1.0 to 1,000 times Kd and most preferably at approximately
                                                                                        dilution in
       100 times Kd. These concentrations are adjusted as needed to account for
       the absence of metabolic transformation at the local delivery site. The exact agents
                                                                                                  in
15     selected for use in the solution, and the concentration of the agents, varies
       accordance with the particular application.
                 The surgical solutions constitute a novel therapeutic approach by combining
                                                                                         molecular
        multiple pharmacologic agents acting at distinct receptor and enzyme
                                                                             the development of
        targets. To date, pharmacologic strategies have focused on
 20     highly specific drugs that are selective for individual receptor subtypes and enzyme
                                                                                                and
        isoforms that mediate responses to individual signaling neurotransmitters
                                                                                             is not
        hormones. This standard pharmacologic strategy, although well accepted,
                                                                                                and
         optimal since many other agents simultaneously may be responsible for initiating
        maintaining a physiologic effect. Furthermore, despite inactivation of a single
                                                                                            and the
 25      receptor subtype or enzyme, activation of other receptor subtypes or enzymes
                                                                                                 the
         resultant signal transmission often can trigger a cascade effect. This explains
                                                                                 drug to-block- a
         significant~ difficulty' in *employing a single receptor-specific
                                                                                         Therefore,
         pathophysiologic process in which multiple transmitters play a role.
                                                                         to be ineffective.
         targeting only a specific individual receptor subtype is likely
  30              In contrast to the standard approach to pharmacologic therapy, the therapeutic
                                                                                that a combination
          approach of the present surgical solutions is based on the rationale
                                                                                                  the
          of drugs acting simultaneously on distinct molecular targets is required to inhibit
                                                                                               state.
          full spectrum of events that underlie the development of a pathophysiologic
          Furthermore, instead of targeting a specific receptor subtype alone, the surgical
  35      solutions are composed of drugs that target common molecular mechanisms
                                                                            in the development of
          operating in different cellular physiologic processes involved

                                                  -11
                                                                pressure, and the promotion of
      pain and inflammation, the reduction in intraocular
                                                                 receptors and enzymes in the
      mydriasis. In this way, the cascading of additional
      nociceptive, inflammatory, and intraocular-pressure-increasing                pathways is
      minimized by the surgical solutions. In these pathophysiologic pathways, the
                                                                              and "downstream"
 5    surgical solutions can inhibit the cascade effect both "upstream"
                                                                                   pathways).
      (i.e., both at points of divergence and convergence of pathophysiologic
                Preferred solutions of the present invention for use during ophthalmologic
                                                                          agents in combination
       surgical procedures include one or more anti-inflammatory
                                                                              also include one or
       with one or more mydriatic agents. Such preferred solutions may
10     more analgesic agents and/or one or more IOP reducing agents, depending on
       whether a given procedure or condition treated thereby is associated with a high
       incidence of pain or increased intraocular procedure, respectively.
                                                                                            aqueous
                These agents are included at dilute concentrations in a physiologic
                                                                                      salt solution.
        carrier, such as any of the above-described carriers, e.g., a balanced
                                                                             a biocompatible and
15      The solution may also include a viscosity increasing agent, e.g.,
                                                                                              of the
        biodegradable polymer, for longer intraocular retention. The concentrations
                                                                             invention for direct,
        agents are determined in accordance with the teachings of the
                                                                               Application of the
        local application to ocular tissues during a surgical procedure.
                                                                                  pre- and intra
        solution is carried out perioperatively, i.e.: intra-operatively;
                                                                      and post-operatively. The
 20     operatively; intra- and post-operatively; or pre-, intra-
                                                                     solution, or may be provided
         agents may be provided in a stable one-part or two-part
                                                                                  is added prior to
         in a lyophilized form to which a one-part or two-part carrier liquid
         use.
                                                                                                  for
                 Functional classes of ophithahologic agents that would be advantageous
                                                                                       invention are
  25     use in perioperative ophthalmologic irrigation solutions of the present
         now further described.
                                       A. Anti-inflammatory Agents
                                                                                                   of
                  Preferred anti-inflammatory agents for use in the ophthalmologic solutions
                                                                                 anti-inflammatory
          the present invention include topical steroids, topical non-steroidal
   30     drugs (NSAIDs) and specific classes of anti-inflammatory agents that are suitably
                                                                                       and inhibitors
          used intraocularly, such as topical anti-histamines, mast cell inhibitors
                                                                                   agents described
          of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). Other anti-inflammatory
                                                                                           agents not
          below as pain/inflammation inhibitory agents, and other anti-inflammatory
                                                                                    intended to be
          disclosed herein, which are suitable for ocular use, are also
   35      encompassed by the present invention.

                                                -12
                                                                             in the present
              Examples of steroids that are believed to be suitable for use
                                                                                          of
     invention include dexamethasone, fluorometholone and prednisolone. Examples
     NSAIDS that are believed to be suitable include flurbiprofen, suprofen, diclofenac,
                                                                              in part on a
     ketoprofen and ketorolac. Selection of an NSAID will depend
 5   determination that excessive bleeding will not result. Examples of anti-histamines
     that are believed to be suitable include levocabastine, emedastine and olopatadine.
     Examples of mast cell inhibitors that are believed to be suitable include cromolyn
      sodium, lodoxamide and nedocromil. Examples of agents that act as both anti
      histamine agents and mast cell inhibitors, and which are suitable for use in the
                                                                          of iNOS that are
10    present invention, include ketotifen and azelastine. Inhibitors
      believed to be suitable include NG-monomethyl-L-arginine,                   1400 W,
                                                                                        6
      diphenyleneiodium, S-methyl isothiourea, S-(aminoethyl) isothiourea, L-N -(1
      iminoethyl)lysine, 1,3-PBITU, and 2-ethyl-2-thiopseudourea.
                                             B. Analgesic Agents
15             The term "analgesic agent" as used herein with reference to ophthalmologic
       solutions and methods is intended to encompass both agents that provide analgesia
       and agents that provide local anesthesia. Preferred analgesic agents for use in the
       ophthalmologic solutions of the present invention include topical local anesthetics
       and topical opioids. Other analgesic agents described below as pain/inflammation
 20    inhibitory agents, and other analgesic agents not disclosed herein, which are suitable
       for ocular use, are also intended to be encompassed by the present invention.
               Examples of local anesthetics that are believed to be suitable for use in the
       present invention include lidocaine, tetracaine, bupivacaine and proparacaine.
                                                                                    invention
       Examples of opioids that are believed to be suitable for use in the present
 25    include morphine, fentanyl and hydromorphone.
                                          C: MWdtiatic Agents
               Preferred mydriatic agents for use in the ophthalmologic solutions of the
        present invention, to dilate the pupil during surgery, include sympathomimetics,
        including alpha-1 adrenergic receptor agonists, and anticholinergic agents, including
  30    anti-muscarinics. Anticholinergic agents may be selected when longer action is
        desired, because they provide both cycloplegia (paralysis of the ciliary muscle) and
                                                                                   4-6 hours.
        mydriasis, e.g., tropicamide exhibits a half-life of approximately
        However, for many procedures, alpha-l adrenergics will be prefered because they
        provide mydriasis but not cycloplegia. Alpha-1 adrenergics are thus shorter acting,

                                                   -13
                                                                                   to return to its
     causing mydriasis during a surgical procedure and allowing the pupil
                                                                                           suitable
     normal state shortly after completion of the procedure. Examples of
     adrenergic receptor agonists active at alpha-1 receptors include phenylephrine,
                                                                                   agents include
     epinephrine and oxymetazoline. Examples of suitable anticholinergic
                                                                                             cause
 5   tropicamide, cyclopentolate, atropine and homatropine. Other agents that
                                                               agents, are also intended to be
     mydriasis, and particularly short-acting mydriatic
     encompassed by the present invention.
                                 D. Agents that Decrease Intraocular Pressure
              Preferred     agents that decrease intraocular       pressure     for use in the
                                                                                           receptor
10    ophthalmologic solutions of the present invention include beta adrenergic
                                                                           receptor agonists and
      antagonists, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, alpha-2 adrenergic
                                                                         receptor antagonists are
      prostaglandin agonists. Examples of suitable beta adrenergic
                                                                                        of suitable
      believed to include timolol, metipranolol and levobunolol. Examples
      carbonic anhydrase inhibitors are believed to include brinzolamide and dorzolamide.
                                                                                         to include
15    Examples of suitable alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonists are believed
       apraclonidine, brimonidine and oxymetazoline. Other alpha-2 adrenergic receptor
       agonists suitable for ocular use and described below as inflammatory/pain inhibitory
                                                                               the solutions of the
       agents may also suitably function as IOP reducing agents within
       present invention.        Suitable prostaglandin agonists are believed to include
 20    latanoprost, travoprost and bimatoprost. When inflammation inhibition is a primary
                                                                                                other
       desired effect of the solution, and IOP control is needed, an IOP reducing agent
       than a prostaglandin agonist may suitably be selected; to avoid the possibility that
                                                                              agents that decrease
       prostaglandin may enhance post-surgical inflammation. Other
       intraocular pressure are also intended to be encompassed by the present invention.
 25                              E. Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory Agents
                The following agents, referred to herein as pain/inflammation inhibitory
                                                                                    methods of the
        agents, may be suitable for use in the ophthalmologic solutions and
                                                                                     The particular
        present invention as analgesic and/or anti-inflammatory agents.
                                                                                           particular
        class(es) of agent, and individual agent(s) within a class, to be utilized for a
                                                                               of skill in the art in
  30    ophthalmologic application can be readily determined by those
        accordance with the present invention. .
                 For example, ocular inflammation models in the rabbit have been studied by
                                                                            topical application of
        comparison of the inflammation response induced by the
                                                                                          and croton
         several irritating agents, specifically carrageenan, Freund's adjuvant, alkali

                                                  -14
                                                                                              can be
      oil. The methods involve measurement of the following parameters which
                                                                                         white, New
      determined after the application of each irritant to the eyes of female,
      Zealand rabbits: corneal edema and the Tyndall effect (slitlamp biomicroscopy),
                                                                           humor levels of the
      corneal thickness (biometer-pachometer) and aqueous
                                                                             technique), albumin,
 5    prostaglandin E2 (R.I.A), total protein (Weichselbaum
      albumin/globulin (Doumas technique) and leukocytes (coulter counter).
                                                                                pl) produced edema
                Validation studies have found that Croton oil 1-4% (40
                                                                       increase with croton oil
       and a Tyndall effect that showed a proportional
                                                                         the variation in comeal
       concentration. Ultrasonic pachometer measurement of
                                                                      (p<0.01) from the 8th to the
10     thickness (3-168 h) showed a dose-dependent response
                                                                            of the prostaglandin E2
       168th hour. Uveitis and considerable increases in the levels
       (4.50 0.40 pg/0.lml vs. 260.03          2.03 pg/0.1ml), total protein (0.25 i 0.05 g/l vs.
                                                                                     observed in the
       2.10       0.08 g/1), albumin, albumin/globulin and leukocytes were
                                                               of croton oil 3% (40 p1). All the
        aqueous humor 24 hours after topical application
15      values obtained were statistically significant (p<0.01).
                                                                                  appropriate for the
                 The topical application of 3% croton oil (40 p1) is most
                                                                             chamber and for the
        evaluation of the inflammatory process in the anterior
                                                                                           mechanism
        determination of the effects of intraocular penetration. The inflammatory
                                                                                              pathway
        in this model is thought to involve the activation of the arachidonic acid
 20      accompanied by the breakdown of the blood-aqueous barrier permitting high
        molecular weight proteins to enter the aqueous humor.
                  The above models can be used to test the efficacy of drugs applied topically,
                                                                                effecting other ocular
         such as by irrigation, in inhibiting inflammatory processes and
                                                                                      is applied to the
         functions. A given agent or combination of agents to be evaluated
 25      eyes of rabbits after the application of each irritant to the eyes.
                                                                                     following classes
                   The solution may suitably include agents selected from the
                                                                                 inhibitors, baoh class
          6f rec'eptor aitagonists aaiWsgonists and'eiiyme activstors and
                                                                          for pain and inflammation
          acting through a differing molecular mechanism of action
          inhibition:     (1) serotonin receptor antagonists; (2) serotonin receptor agonists;
                                                                receptor antagonists; (5) kallikrein
  30      (3) histamine receptor antagonists; (4) bradykinin
                                                                                       and neurokinin 2
          inhibitors; (6) tachykinin receptor antagonists, including neurokinin,
                                                                                     (CGRP) receptor
          receptor subtype antagonists; (7) calcitonin gene-related peptide
                                                                (9) inhibitors of enzymes active in
          antagonists; (8) interleukin receptor antagonists;
          the synthetic pathway for arachidonic acid metabolites, including (a) phospholipase
                                                                                                     (b)
   35      inhibitors, including PLA2 isoforn inhibitors and PLCy isoform inhibitors,
                                                                              (10) prostanoid receptor
           cyclooxygenase inhibitors, and (c) lipooxygenase inhibitors;

                                                 -15
                                                                               antagonists and
    antagonists including eicosanoid EP-1 and EP-4 receptor subtype
    thromboxane receptor subtype antagonists; (11) leukotriene receptor antagonists
    including leukotriene B 4 receptor subtype antagonists and leukotriene D4 receptor
    subtype antagonists; (12) opioid receptor agonists, including L-opioid, S-opioid, and
 5' K-opioid receptor subtype agonists; (13) purinoceptor agonists and antagonists
    including P2X receptor antagonists and P2y receptor agonists; (14) adenosine
    triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive potassium channel openers; (15) local anesthetics; and
                                                                                functions either
     (16) alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonists. Each of the above agents
     as an anti-inflammatory agent and/or as an analgesic, i.e., anti-pain, agent The
10   selection of agents from these classes of compounds is tailored for the particular
     application.
                                  1. Serotonin Receptor Antagonists
               Serotonin (5-HT) is thought to produce pain by stimulating serotonin2
      (5-HT 2) and/or'serotonn 3 (5-HT 3) receptors on nociceptive neurons in the periphery.
15    Most researchers agree that 5-HT 3 receptors on peripheral nociceptors mediate the
      immediate pain sensation produced by 5-HT. In addition to inhibiting 5-HT-induced
                                                                                          inhibit
      pain, 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists, by inhibiting nociceptor activation, also may
      neurogenic inflammation. Activation of 5-HT 2 receptors also may play a role in
      peripheral pain and neurogenic inflammation. One goal of the solution of the present
20    invention is to block pain and a multitude of inflammatory processes. Thus, 5-HT 2
       and 5-HT receptor antagonists may both be suitably used, either individually or
                  3
       together, in the solution of the present invention. Amitriptyline (ElavilTM) is
       believed to be a potentially suitable 5-HT 2 receptor antagonist for use in the present
       invention. Metoclopramide (ReglanTM) is used clinically as an anti-emetic drug, but
 25    displays moderate affinity for the 5-HT 3 receptor and can inhibit the actions of 5-HT
       at this receptor, possibly inhibiting the pain due to 5-HT release from platelets. Thus,
       it may also be suitable for use in the present invention.
                Other potentially suitable 5-HT 2 receptor antagonists include imipramine,
       trazodone, desipramine, ketanserin.         Other suitable 5-HT 3 antagonists include
 30     cisapride and ondansetron. Therapeutic and preferred concentrations for use of these
        drugs in the solution of the present invention are set forth in Table 1.

                                            -16
                                          Table 1
                       Therneutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                           Pain/Inflammation inhibitory Agents
   Class of Agent                                 Therapeutic        Preferred
                                                  Concentrations     Concentrations
                                                  (Nanomolar)        (Nanomolar)
    Serotonin2 Receptor Antagonists:
    amitriptyline                                 0.1-1,000          50-500
    imipramine                                    0.1  -   1,000     50 - 500
    trazodone                                     0.1-2,000           50-500
    desipramine                                   0.1  -   1,000      50 - 500
    ketanserin                                    0,1-1,000           50-500
     Serotonin 3 Receptor Antagonists:
     tropisetron                                   0.01    - 100      0.05  - 50
     metoclopramide                                10- 10,000         200 - 2,000
      cisapride                                    0.1   -  1,000     20 - 200
      ondansetron                                  0.1-1,000          20-200
 5                            2. Serotonin Receptor Agonists
            5-HTIA, 5-HTIB and 5-HTID receptors are known to inhibit adenylate
   cyclase activity. Thus including a low dose of these serotonin1A, serotonin1B and
   serotoninID receptor agonists in the solution should inhibit neurons mediating pain
   and inflammation. The same action is expected from serotonin1E and serotoniniF
10 receptor agonists because these receptors also inhibit adenylate cyclase.
            Buspirone is a potentially suitable 1A receptor agonist for use in the present
   invention. Sumatriptan is a potentially suitable 1A, IB, ID and 1F receptor agonist.
                                                                                  suitable
   A potentially suitable lB and ID receptor agonist is dihydroergotamine. A

                                                -17
    1E receptor agonist is ergonovine. Therapeutic and preferred concentrations for
    these receptor agonists are provided in Table 2.
                                               Table 2
                            Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
5                              Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory Agents
                                                       Therapeutic       Preferred
                                                       Concentrations    Concentrations
       Class of Agent                                  (Nanomolar)       (Nanomolar)
       Serotonin1A Agonists:
                                                       1  - 1,000        10 - 200
       5-carboxyamidotryptamine
                                                       1  - 1,000         10 - 200
       sumatriptan
       SerotoniniB Agonists:
                                                        0.1-1,000         10-100
       CP93129
                                                        1 -1,000          10 - 200
       sumatriptan
        SerotoninD1    Agonists:
                                                        0.1-1,000         10 -100
        naratriptan
                                                        1 -1,000          10 - 200
        sumatriptan
        Serotonin1E Agonists:
        ergonovine                                       10 - 2,000-       1.00.- 1.,000
         Serotonin 1F Agonists:
         sumatriptan                                     1-1,000           10-200
                                 3. Histamine Receptor Antagonists
                 Histamine receptor antagonists may potentially be included in the irrigation
      solution. Promethazine (PhenerganTM) is a commonly used anti-emetic drug that
                                                                                         present
      potently blocks H receptors, and is potentially suitable for use in the
                            1
 10   invention.      Other potentially suitable H1 receptor antagonists include terfenadine,

   diphenhydramine, amitriptyline, mepyramine and tripolidine. Because amitriptyline
                                                                                            in
   is also effective as a serotonin 2 receptor antagonist, it has a dual function as used
                                                                                     each of
   the present invention. Suitable therapeutic and preferred concentrations for
   these HI receptor antagonists are set forth in Table 3.
5                                           Table 3
                          Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                              Pain/Inflammation hihibitory Agents
                                                     Therapeutic          Preferred
                                                     Concentrations       Concentrations
       Class of Agent                                (Nanomolar)          (Nanomolar)
       Histamine, Receptor Antagonists:
       promethazine                                  0.1  -  1,000        50 -200
       diphenhydramine                               0.1  -  1,000        50 - 200
       amitriptyline                                 0.1  -  1,000         50 - 500
       terfenadine                                    0.1 -  1,000         50 - 500
       mepyramine (pyrilamine)                        0.1 -  1,000         5 -200
       tripolidine                                    0.01-100             5-20
                               4. Bradykinin Receptor Antagonists
             Bradykinin receptors generally are divided into bradykinini (Bl) and
10   bradykinin 2 (B2) subtypes. These drugs are peptides (small proteins), and thus they
     dannot'be faken difly, bieciiise they ivduldedigested;Anatiistt& B                te rs
     block bradykinin-induced acute pain and inflammation. B1 receptor antagonists
     inhibit pain in chronic inflammatory conditions. Depending on the application, the
     solution of the present invention may suitably include either or both bradykinin B 1
15   and B 2 receptor antagonists. Potentially suitable bradykinin, receptor antagonists for
     use in the present invention include:                  the [des-Arg10 ] derivative of
                                                               1
     D-Arg-(Hyp 3-Thi 5 -D-Tic 7-Oic8)-BK ("the [des-Arg O] derivative of HOE 140",
                                                                 8         9
     available from Hoechst Pharmaceuticals); and [Leu ] des-Arg -BK. Potentially
      suitable     bradykinin2    receptor     antagonists       include:        [D-Phe 7 ]-BK;
                                                                        3
20    D-Arg-(Hyp 3 -Thi 5,8 -D-Phe7)-BK ("NPC 349"); D-Arg-(Hyp --D-Phe7)-BK ("NPC

                                              -19
                                    5      7                       140"). Suitable therapeutic
   567"); and D-Arg-(Hyp3-Thi -D-Tic -OiC8)-BK ("HOE
   and preferred concentrations are provided in Table 4.
                                             Table 4
                           Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
5                              Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory Agents
                                                     Therapeutic           Preferred
                                                     Concentrations        Concentrations
      Class of Agent                                 (Nanomolar)           (Nanomolar)
      Bradykinini Receptor Antagonists:
      [Leu 8] des-Arg 9 -BK                           1 - 1,000            50 - 500
      [des-Arg 10] derivative of HOE 140              1 - 1,000             50 - 500
      [leu 9 1 [des-Arg 10] kalliden                  0.1 -   500           10 - 200
      Bradyinin, Receptor Antagonists:
       [D-Phe 7]-BK                                   100   -  10,000       200  - 5,000
       NPC 349                                        1-1,000               50-500
       NPC 567                                        1-1,000               50-500
       HOE 140                                        1-1,000               50-500
                                      5. Kallikrein Inhibitors
              The peptide bradykinin is an important mediator of pain and inflammation.
    Bradykinin is produced as a cleavage product by the action of kallikrein on high
    mlecidar-weilit ldriinogeiis ip laimi.~Thirf6id, kallildeih nhibitofs ar'e b6li6d
10  to be therapeutic in inhibiting bradykinin production and resultant pain and
    inflammation. A potentially suitable kallikrein inhibitor for use in the present
     invention is aprotinin. Potentially suitable concentrations for use in the solutions of
     the present invention are set forth below in Table 5.

                                            -20
                                          Table 5
                         Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                             Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory Agents
                                                   Therapeutic           Preferred
                                                   Concentrations        Concentrations
     Class of Agent                                (Nanomolar)           (Nanomolar)
     Kallikrein Inhibitor:
                                                    0.1 - 1,000           50- 500
     aprotinin
 5                            6. Tachykinin Receptor Antagonists
                                                                        peptides that include
           Tachykinins (TKs) are a family of structurally related
   substance P, neurokinin A (NKA) and neurokinin B (NKB). Neurons are the major
                                                                                   is neuronal
   source of TKs in the periphery. An important general effect of TKs
                                                                                       plasma
   stimulation, but other effects include endothelium-dependent vasodilation,
                                                                          and stimulation of
10 protein extravasation, mast cell recruitment and degranuation
   inflammatory cells. Due to the above combination of physiological actions.mediated
                                                                   a reasonable approach for
   by activation of TK receptors, targeting of TK receptors is
   the promotion of analgesia and the treatment of neurogenic inflammation.
                          a. Neur1kiinl Recentor Subtype Antagonists
15          Substance P activates the neurokinin receptor subtype referred to as NK 1 . A
                    suitable Substance P antagonist             is    ([D-Pro9 [spiro-gamma
    potentially
                                                                                       suitable
    lactam]Leu 1 0 ,Trpil]physalaemin-(1-11)) ("GR 82334"). Other potentially
         go st for use in~thi br#sht invention Wiioh- adt off the-NU 1 reeptor
                                                                                           ~r:
    1-imino-2-(2-methoxy-pheny1)-ethy1)-7,7-diphenyl-4-perhydroisoindolone(3aR,7aR)
20  ("RP 67580"); and 2S,38-cis-3-(2-methoxybenzylamino)-2-benzhydrylquinuclidine
                                                                are set forth in Table 6.
    ("CP 96,345"). Suitable concentrations for these agents

                                            -21
                                          Table 6
                       Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                           Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory Agents
                                                   Therapeutic       Preferred
                                                    Concentrations   Concentrations
     Class of Agent                                 (Nanomolar)      (Nanomolar)
     Neurokinin1 Receptor Subtype Antagonists
     GR 82334                                       1-1,000           10-500
     CP 96,345                                      1-10,000          100-1,000
     RP 67580                                       0.1-1,000         100-1,000
 5                     b. Neulroanj    Receptor Subtype Antagonists
          Neurokinin A is a peptide which is colocalized in sensory neurons with
   substance P and which also promotes inflammation and pain. Neurokinin A activates
   the specific neurokinin receptor referred to as NK 2 . Examples of potentially suitable
   NK 2 antagonists include: ((S)-N-methyl-N-[4-(4-acetylamino-4-phenylpiperidino)-2
10 (3,4-dichlorophenyl)butyl1benzamide ("()-SR 48968"); Met-Asp-Trp-Phe-Dap-Leu
                                                                                  Suitable
   ("MEN 10,627"); and cyc(Gln-Trp-Phe-Gly-Leu-Met) ("L 659,877").
   concentrations of these agents are provided in Table 7.

                                           -22
                                          Table 7
                       Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                           Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory Agents
                                                  Therapeutic        Preferred
                                                  Concentrations     Concentrations
     Class of Agent                               (Nanomolar)        (Nanomolar)
     Neurokinin, Receptor Subtype
     Antagonists:
     MEN 10,627                                    1-1,000            10-1,000
     L 659,877                                     10-10,000          100-10,000
     ()-SR 48968                                  10-10,000          100-10,000
 5                             7. CGRP Receptor Antagonists
           Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a peptide which is also colocalized
   in sensory neurons with substance P, and which acts as a vasodilator and potentiates
   the actions of substance P. An example of a potentially suitable CGRP receptor
   antagonist is I-CGRP-(8-37), a truncated version of CGRP. This polypeptide inhibits
10 the activation of CGRP receptors. Suitable concentrations for this agent are provided
   in Table 8.
                                          Table 8
                        Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                            Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory-Agents
15
                                                  Therapeutic         Preferred
                                                  Concentrations      Concentrations
      Class of Agent                              (Nanomolar)         (Nanomolar)
      QGRP Receptor Antagonist:
      I-CGRP-(8-37)                               1-1,000             10-500

                                                 -23
                                  8. Interleukin Receptor Antagonist
               Interleukins are a family of peptides, classified as cytokines, produced by
     leukocytes and other cells in response to inflammatory mediators. Interleukins (IL)
                                                                       of a potentially suitable
     may be potent hyperalgesic agents peripherally. An example
 5   IL-1p receptor antagonist is Lys-D-Pro-Thr, which is a truncated version of IL-1p.
                                                                                             for
     This tripeptide inhibits the activation of IL-1p receptors. Suitable concentrations
      this agent are provided in Table 9.
                                                Table 9
                             Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
10                                Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory Agents
                                                        Therapeutic         Preferred
                                                        Concentrations      Concentrations
          Class of Agent                                 (Nanomolar)        (Nanomolar)
          Interleukin Receptor Antagonist:
          Lys-D-Pro-Thr                                  1-1,000             10-500
                       9. Inhibitors of Enzymes Active in the Synthetic Pathway
                                    for Arachidonic Acid Metabolites
                                        a. Phospholipase Inhibitors
                                                                                                 a
 15              The production of arachidonic acid by phospholipase A 2 (PLA 2) results in
                                                                                                as
       cascade of reactions that produces numerous mediators of inflammation, known
                                                                                               be
        eicosanoids. There are a number of stages throughout this pathway that can
        inhibited, thereby decreasing the production of these inflammatory mediators.
        Examples of inhibition at these various stages are given below.
 20              Inhibition of the enzyme PLA 2 isoform inhibits the release of arachidonic acid
        from cell membranes, and therefore inhibits the production of prostaglandins and
                                                                                             of a
        leukotrienes resulting in decreased inflammation and pain. An example
                                                                               concentrations for
        potentially suitable PLA 2 isoform inhibitor is manoalide. Suitable
         this agent are included in Table 10. Inhibition of the phospholipase C (PLC) isoform
  25     also will result in decreased production of prostanoids and leukotrienes and,
         therefore, will result in decreased pain and inflammation. An example of a PLC

                                               -24
    isoform inhibitor is 1-[6-((17p-3-methoxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-17-y1)amino)hexYl
    1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione.
                                             Table 10
                            Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
5                               Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory Agents
                                                      Therapeutic          Preferred
                                                      Concentrations       Concentrations
        Class of Agent                                (Nanomolar)          (Nanomolar)
        PLA2 Isoform Inhibitor:
        manoalide                                      100-100,000         500-10,000
                                     b. Cyclooxygenase Inhibitors
                                                                                       used as
               Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are widely
                                                                            for these drugs are
      anti-inflammatory and analgesic agents. The molecular targets
                                                                                      activity of
10    type I and type I cyclooxygenases (COX-1 and COX-2). Constitutive
                                                                            prostaglandins that
      COX-1 and induced activity of COX-2 both lead to synthesis of
      contribute to pain and inflammation.
               NSAIDs currently on the market (diclofenac, naproxen, indomethacin,
                                                                        isoforms of COX, but
       ibuprofen, etc.) are generally nonselective inhibitors of both
                                                                            this ratio varies for
15     may show greater selectively for COX-1 over COX-2, although
                                                                                    formation of
       the different compounds. Use of COX-1 and COX-2 inhibitors to block
                                                          strategy than attempting to block
       prostaglandins represents a better therapeutic
                                                                                   of prostanoid
       interactions of the natural ligands with the seven described subtypes
       receptors.
                                                                                        invention
 20             Potentially suitable cyclooxygenase inhibitors for use in the present
        are ketoprofen, ketorolac and indomethacin.               Therapeutic and preferred
                                                                                  Table 11. For
        concentrations of these agents for use in the solution are provided in
                                                                                              (i.e.,
        some applications, it may also be suitable to utilize a COX-2 specific inhibitor
        selective for COX-2 relative to COX-1) as an anti-inflarnmatory/analgesic agent.
 25     Potentially suitable COX-2 inhibitors include rofecoxib (MK 966), SC-58451,
        celecoxib (SC-58125), meloxicam, nimesulide, diclofenac, NS-398, L-745,337,
        RS57067, SC-57666 and flosulide.

                                                 -25
                                               Table 11
                            Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                                 Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory Agents
                                                     Therapeutic         Preferred
                                                     Concentrations       Concentrations
    Class of Agent                                   (Nanomolar)          (Nanomolar)
    Cyclooxygenase Inhibitors:
    ketorolac                                         100 - 10,000        500- 5,000
    ketoprofen                                        100 - 10,000        500 - 5,000
    indomethacin                                      1,000 - 500,000      10,000 - 200,000
 5                                     c. Lipooxygenase Inhibitors
               Inhibition of the       enzyme   lipooxygenase     inhibits the production of
                                                                                      mediator of
      leukotrienes, such as leukotriene B4 , which is known to be an important
      inflammation and pain. An example of a potentially suitable 5-lipooxygenase
      antagonist    is   2,3,5-trimethyl-6-(12-hydroxy-5,10-dodecadiynyl)-1,4-benzoquinone
10    ("AA 861"), suitable concentrations for which are listed in Table 12.
                                                Table 12
                             Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                                  Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory Agents
                                                          Therapeutic          Preferred
                                                          Concentrations       Concentrations
          Class-of-Agent                                  (Nanomolar)          (Nanomolar)
          Lipooxvgenase Inhibitor:
          AA 861                                           100-10,000          500-5,000
 15                                10. Prostanoid Receptor Antagonists
                Specific prostanoids produced as metabolites of arachidonic acid mediate
       their inflammatory effects through activation of prostanoid receptors. Examples of
        classes of specific prostanoid antagonists are the eicosanoid EP-1 and EP-4 receptor
        subtype antagonists and the thromboxane receptor subtype antagonists. A potentially
 20     suitable prostaglandin E2 receptor antagonist is 8-chlorodibenz~b,f][1,4]oxazepine-

                                              -26
                                                                                     suitable
   10(11H)-carboxylic acid, 2-acetylhydrazide ("SC 19220"). A potentially
                                                                                        3 2
   thromboxane receptor subtype antagonist is [15-[1a, 2p(5Z), 3p, 4U]-7-[ -[
                                                                            2
   (phenylamino)-carbonyl]       hydrazino]      methyl]-7-oxobicyclo-[2, ,1]-hept-2-y]-5
                                                                                           in
   heptanoic acid ("SQ 29548"). Suitable concentrations for these agents are set forth
5  Table 13.
                                            Table 13
                         Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                             Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory Agents
                                                      Therapeutic          Preferred
                                                      Concentrations       Concentrations
      Class of Agent                                  (Nanomolar)          (Nanomolarl
      Eicosanoid EP-1 Antagonist:
      SC 19220                                        100-10,000           500-5,000
10                           11. Leukotriene Receptor Antagonists
            The leukotrienes (LTB 4, LTC 4, and LTD4) are products of the
    5-lipooxygenase pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism that are generated
    enzymatically and have important biological properties. Leukotrienes are implicated
    in a number of pathological conditions including inflammation. An example of a
15  potentially suitable leukotriene B4 receptor antagonist is SC (+)-(S)-7-(3-(2
    (cyclopropylmethyl)-3-methoxy-4-[(methylamino)-carbonyl]phenoxy(propoxy)-3,4
    dihydro-8-propyl-2H-1-benzopyran-2-propanoic acid ("SC 53228"). Concentrations
    for this agent that are potentially suitable for the practice of the present invention are
    provided in Table 14. Other potentially suitable leukotriene B 4 receptor antagonists
20  include       [3-[-2(7-chloro-2-quinolinyl)ethenyl]pheny]           [[3-(dimethylamino-3
    oxopropyl)thio] methyl]thiopropanoic acid ("MK 0571") and the drags LY 66,071
     and ICI 20,3219. MK 0571 also acts as a LTD4 receptor subtype antagonist.

                                             -27
                                          Table 14
                         Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                             Pain/Inflammation hihibitory Agents
                                                   Therapeutic        Preferred
                                                   Concentrations     Concentrations
      Class of Agent                               (Nanomolar)        (Nanomolar)
      Leukotriene B4 Antagonist:
      SC 53228                                     100-10,000         500-5,000
 5                               12. Opioid Receptor Agonists
           Activation of opioid receptors results in anti-nociceptive effects and,
   therefore, agonists to these receptors are desirable. Opioid receptors include the -r,
   5- and -opioid receptor subtypes. Examples of potentially suitable p-opioid receptor
   agonists are fentanyl and Try-D-Ala-Gly-[N-MePhe]-NH(CH 2)-OH ("DAMGO").
                                                                                     2
10 An example of a potentially suitable S-opioid receptor agonist is [D-Pen ,D
   Pen 5]enkephalin ("DPDPE"). An example of a potentially suitable -c-opioid receptor
   agonist    is  (trans)-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-{2-(1-pyrrolidny1)cyclohexy1]-benzene
    acetamide ("U50,488"). Suitable concentrations for each of these agents are set forth
    in Table 15.
15

                                           -28
                                         Table 15
                        Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                            Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory Agents
                                                  Therapeutic        Preferred
                                                  Concentrations     Concentrations
    Class of Agent                                (Nanomolar)        (Nanomolar)
    p-Opioid Agonist:
    DAMGO                                         0.1-100            0.5-20
     sufentanyl                                   0.01-50             1-20
     fentanyl                                      0.1-500            10-200
     PL 017                                        0.05-50            0.25-10
     8-Opioid Agonist:
     DPDPE                                         0.1-500            1.0-100
      r,-Opioid Agonist:
      U50,488                                      0.1-500             1.0-100
 5                        13. Purinoceptor Antagonists and Agonists
            Extracellular ATP acts as a signaling molecule through interactions with P 2
                                                                                 which are
   purinoceptors. One major class of purinoceptors are the P2x purinoceptors
                                                                               to Na+, K+,
   ligand-gated ion channels possessing intrinsic ion channels permeable
                                                                                       the
   and Ca 2+. Potentially suitable antagonists of P 2 x/ATP purinoceptors for use in
                                                                                         6
10 present invention include, by way of example, suramin and pyridoxylphosphate-
   azophenyl-2,4-disulfonic acid ("PPADS"). Suitable concentrations for these agents
   are provided in Table 16. Agonists of the P 2 Y receptor, a G-protein coupled receptor,
   are known to effect smooth muscle relaxation through elevation of inositol
                                                                             calcium. An
   triphosphate (IP3) levels with a subsequent increase in intracellular
15  example of a Py receptor agonist is 2-me-S-ATP.

                                           -29
                                         Table 16
                        Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                            Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory Agents
                                                  Therapeutic         Preferred
                                                  Concentrations      Concentrations
    Class of Agent                                (Nanomolar)         (Nanomolar)
    Purinoceptor Antagonists:
     suramin                                       100-100,000        10,000-100,000
     PPADS                                         100-100,000         10,000-100,000
 5       14. Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP)-Sensitive Potassium Channel O ees
                                                                                    of the
           Potentially suitable ATP-sensitive K+ channel openers for the practice
                                                                     minoxidil; N-cyano
   present invention include: (-)pinacidil; cromakalim; nicorandil;
                                                                     ("P 1075"); and N
   N'-[1,1-dimethy-[2,2,3,3 H]propy1]-N"-(3-pyridinyl)guanidine
                                                                  monomethansulphonate
   cyano-N'-(2--itroxyethy1)-3-pyridinecarboximidamide
                                                                 in Table 17.
10 ("KRN 2391"). Concentrations for these agents are set forth

                                             -30
                                           Table 17
                         Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                             Pain/Inflammation Inhibitory Agents
                                                    Therapeutic          Preferred
                                                    Concentrations       Concentrations
      Class of Agent                                (Nanomolar)          (Nanomolar)
      ATP-Sensitive K* Channel Opener:
      cromakalim                                    10-10,000             100-10,000
      nicorandil                                    10-10,000             100-10,000
      minoxidil                                     10-10,000             100-10,000
      P 1075                                        0.1-1,000             10-1,000
      KRN 2391                                       1-10,000             100-1,000
      (-)pinacidil                                   1-10,000             100-1,000
 5                                    15. Local Anesthetics
            The solution of the present invention is preferably used for continuous
    infusion throughout the surgical procedure to provide preemptive inhibition of pain
    and inflammation. Local anesthetics (e.g., lidocaine, bupivacaine, etc.) are used
    clinically as analgesic agents and are known to reversibly bind to sodium channels in
10  the membrane of neuronal axons, thereby inhibiting axonal conduction and the
   -transmission of -pain signals -from-the-periphery to -the-spinal.cord.- -The-local-delivery-
    of extremely low or sub-clinical concentrations of lidocaine, a local anesthetic, has
    been shown to inhibit nerve injury discharge (Bisla K and Tanalian DL,
    Concentration-dependent Effects of Lidocaine on Comeal Epithelial Wound Healing,
15  Invest Ophthalnol Vis Sci 33(11), pp. 3029-3033, 1992). Therefore, in addition to
    decreasing pain signals, local anesthetics, when delivered in extremely low
    concentrations, also have anti-inflammatory properties.
             The inclusion of a local anesthetic in extremely low or "sub-anesthetic"
     concentrations in the irrigation solution provides a beneficial anti-inflammatory
20   effect without exposing the patient to the systemic toxicity associated with currently

                                               -31
    used clinical doses of local anesthetics. Thus, in extremely low concentrations, a
    local anesthetic is suitable for use in the present invention.             Examples of
    representative local anesthetics useful in the practice of the present invention include,
    without limitation, benzocaine, bupivacaine, chloroprocaine, cocaine, etiodocaine,
 5  lidocaine, mepivacaine, pramoxine, prilocaine, procaine, proparacaine, ropivacaine,
    tetracaine, dibucaine, QX-222, ZX-314, RAC-109, HS-37 and the pharmacologically
    active enantiomers thereof. Although not wishing to be bound by any particular
    theory, some local anesthetics are believed to act by inhibiting voltage-gated sodium
    channels.     (See Guo, X. et al., "Comparative inhibition of voltage-gated cation
10   channels by local anesthetics," Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci, 625: 181-199 (1991)).
     Particularly useful pharmacologically active enantiomers of local anesthetics include,
     for example, the R-enantiomer of bupivacaine. For purposes of the present
     invention, useful concentratons of anesthetic agents delivered locally are generally in
     the range of about 125 to about 100,000,000 nanomolar, more preferably about 1,000
15   to about 10,000,000 nanomolar, and most preferably about 225,000 to about
     1,000,000 nanomolar. In one embodiment, the solutions of the invention comprise at
     least one local anesthetic agent delivered locally at a concentration of no greater than
     750,000 nanomolar. In other embodiments, the solutions of the invention comprise
     at least one local anesthetic agent delivered locally at a concentration of no greater
20   than 500,000 nanomolar. Useful concentrations of representative specific local
      anesthetic agents are set forth below.
                                              Table 18
                             Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                                  Specific Local Anesthetic Agents
25
                                                Concentrations (Nanomolar)
                                   Therapeutic          Preferred           More Preferred
      Local Anesthetics:
      lidocaine                 500-1,600,000       4,000-1,200,000      900,000-1,100,000
      bupivacaine               125-400,000         1,000-300,000        225,000-275,000
                              16. Alpha-2 Adrenergic Receptor Agonists
              All the individual nine receptors that comprise the adrenergic amine receptor
      family belong to the G-protein linked superfamily of receptors. The classification of
      the adrenergic family into three distinct subfamilies, namely ai (alpha-1), Cz (alpha
 30   2), and  P (beta), is based upon a wealth of binding, functional  and second messenger

                                               -32
   studies. Each adrenergic receptor subfamily is itself composed of three homologous
   receptor subtypes that have been defined by cloning and pharmacological
   characterization of the recombinant receptors. Among adrenergic receptors in
   different subfamilies (alpha-1 vs. alpha-2 vs. beta), amino acid identities in the
 5 membrane spanning domain range from 36-73%. However, between members of the
   same subfamily (aiA VS. aiB) the identity between membrane domains is usually 70
   80%. Together, these distinct receptor subtypes mediate the effects of two
   physiological agonists, epinephrine and norepinephrine.
            Distinct adrenergic receptor types couple to unique sets of G-proteins and are
10 thereby capable of activating different signal transduction effectors.                  The
   classification of alpha-1, alpha-2, and beta subfamilies not only defines the receptors
   with regard to signal transduction mechanisms, but also accounts for their ability to
   differentially recognize various natural and synthetic adrenergic amines. In this
   regard, a number of selective ligands have been developed and utilized to
15  characterize the pharmacological properties of each of these receptor types.
   Functional responses of alpha-1 receptors have been shown in certain systems to
    stimulate phosphatidylinositol turnover and promote the release of intracellular
    calcium (via Gq), while stimulation of alpha-2 receptors inhibits adenylyl cyclase (via
    G1). In contrast, functional responses of beta receptors are coupled to increases in
20  adenylyl cyclase activity and increases in intracellular calcium (via G,).
            It is now accepted that there are three different alpha-1 receptor subtypes
    which all exhibit a high affinity (subnanomolar) for the antagonist, prazosin. The
    subdivision of alpha-i adrenoceptors into three different subtypes, designated aiA,
    GLIB, and aID, has been primarily based on extensive ligand binding studies of
25  endogenous receptors and cloned receptors. Pharmacological characterization of the
    cloned receptors led to revisions of the original classification such that the clone
    &iginailly 'all~d -thi- aijc'subtyps-c OiEorednds t6 the '#hirinacoloigically dernie~d-aiT~
    receptor. Agonist occupation of a1A.D receptor subtypes results in activation of
    phospholipase C, stimulation of PI breakdown, generation of the IP 3 as second
30  messenger and an increase in intracellular calcium.
            Three different a 2-receptor subtypes have been cloned, sequenced, and
    expressed in mammalian cells, referred to as a2A (a 2 .C10), a2B (a 2 C2), a2c (a2.C4).
    These subtypes not only differ in their amino acid composition but also in their
    pharmacological profiles and distributions. An additional a 2-receptor subtype, 2D
35  (gene rg20), was originally proposed based on radioligand binding studies of rodent

                                                -33
                                                                             to the human a2A
     tissues but is now considered to represent a species homolog
     receptor.
                                                                                       three C2A
               Functionally, the signal transduction pathways are similar for all
                                                                                                In
     receptor subtypes; each is negatively coupled to adenylate cyclase via G/o.
                                                                     to mediate activation of a
 5    addition, the (X2A and a2B receptors have also been reported
                                                                   as well as inhibition of a G
      G-protein coupled potassium channel (receptor-operated)
      protein associated calcium channel.
               Pharmacologically, alpha-2 adrenergic receptors are defined as highly
                                                                       atipamezole (Ki=0.5-2.5
      sensitive to the antagonists yohimbine (Ki= 0.5-25 pM),
                                                                            the alpha-I receptor
10    pM), and idazoxan (Ki=21-35 pM) and with low sensitivity to
                                                                      adrenergic receptor class
      antagonist prazosin. Agonists selective for the alpha-2
                                                                                   BHT920 and
      relative to the alpha-1 adrenergic receptor class are UK14,304,
       BHT933. Oxymetazoline binds with high affinity and selectivity to the a2A-receptor
                                                                            to alpa-1 adrenergic
       subtype (Kn= 3pM), but in addition binds with high. affinity
15     receptors and 5HT1 receptors. An additional complicating factor is that alpha-2
                                                                            idazoxan) and others
       adrenergic receptor ligands which are imidazolines (clonidine,
                                                                            (nanomolar) to non
       (oxymetazoline and UK14304) also bind with high affinity
                                                                                             in the
        adrenoceptor imidazoline binding sites. Furthermore, species variation
                                                                                           alpha-2
        pharmacology of the a 2A-adrenoceptor exists. To date, subtype-selective
                                                                                               with
20      adrenergic receptor ligands show only minimal selectivity or are nonselective
                                                                                       of subtype
        respect to other specific receptors, such that the therapeutic properties
        selective drugs are still under development.
                                                                                                  to
                A therapeutic field in which alpha-2 receptor agonists may be considered
                                                                                     and blockade
        have potential use is as an adjunct to anesthesia, for the control of pain
                                                                                           releases
 25      of neurogenic inflanmation. Sympathetic nervous system stimulation
                                                                                           Alpha-2
         norepinephrine after tissue injury, and thus influences nociceptor activity.
                                                                                       'at-fdinfia
         ie6etfor ag6nifs, iuoh's-cl65idifie;~dri inhibit fidipiheplifirieTdSe
                                                                               at peripheral sites
         nerve fibre endings and thus may induce analgesia directly
                                                                     afferent neurons to release
         (without actions on the CNS). The ability of primary
                                                                                            them to
  30     neurotransmitters from both their central and peripheral endings enables
         exert a dual, sensory and "efferent" or "local effector" function. The term,
         neurogenic inflammation, is used to describe theefferent function of the sensory
                                                                                        in a "feed
         nerves that includes the release of sensory neuropeptides that contribute,
                                                                                         release of
          forward" manner, to the inflammatory process. Agents that induce the
  35      sensory neuropeptides from peripheral endings of sensory nerves, such as capsaicin,
                                                                               resulting in plasma
          produce pain, inflammation and increased vascular permeability

                                                  -34
     extravasation. Drugs that block release of neuropeptides        (substance P, CGRP) from
     sensory endings are predicted to possess analgesic and          anti-inflammatory activity.
     This mechanism of action has been established for other        drugs that exhibit analgesic
     and anti-inflammatory action in the periphery, such as         sumatriptan and morphine,
                                                                                 these drugs are
5    which act on 5HT1 and -opioid receptors, respectively. Both of
                                                                                        of signal
     agonists that activate receptors that share a common mechanism
                                                                                 has been shown
     transduction with the alpha-2 receptors. UK14304, like sumatriptan,
                                                                                         action on
     to block plasma extravasation within the dura mater through a prejunctional
      alpha-2 receptors.
                                                                                                 in
10            Evidence supporting a peripheral analgesic effect of clonidine was obtained
                                                                                             of an
      a study of the effect of intra-articular injection of the drug at the end
                                                                                     Clonidine is
      arthroscopic knee surgery ((Gentili, M et al (1996) Pain 64: 593-596)).
                                                                                  might allow its
      considered to exhibit nonopiate anti-nociceptive properties, which
                                                                                       to evaluate
      use as an alternative for postoperative analgesia. In a study undertaken
15    the analgesic effects of clonidine administered intravenously to patients during the
                                                                         of pain and decrease the
      postoperative period, clonidine was found to delay the onset
                                                                         intra- and postoperative
      pain score. Thus, a number of studies have demonstrated
                                                                                         indicating
       analgesia effects from drugs acting either at alpha-2 adrenergic receptors,
       these receptors are good therapeutic targets for new drugs to treat pain.
20             From the molecular and cellular mechanism of action defined for alpha-2
                                                                    are expected to exhibit anti
       receptor agonists, such as UK14304, these compounds
                                                                                              when
       nociceptive action on the peripheral terminals of primary afferent nerves
        applied intraoperatively in an irrigation solution directly to tissues.
                Alpha-2 receptor agonists are suitable for use in the current invention,
                                                                                               anti
 25     delivered either as a single agent or in combination with other anti-pain and/or
        inflammatory drugs, to inhibit pain and inflammation. Representative alpha-2
        reedptf ago iisfs"f6i tlid    ra6Tid ~5f 'ti63s5f   iitlihftio iifcud6;~f--6xafip167
        clonidine; dexmedetomidine; oxymetazoline; ((R)-(-)-3'-(2-amino--hydroxyethyl)
                                                                                                   6
        4'-fluoro-methanesulfoanilide           (NS-49);        2-[(5-methylbenz-l-ox-4-azin-
                                                                              192172, as described
 30     yl)imino]imidazoline (AGN-193080); AGN 191103 and AGN
        in Munk, S. et al., J. Med. Chem. 39: 3533-3538 (1996); 5-bromo-N-(4,5-dihydro
         1H-imidazol-2-yl)-6-quinoxalinamine (UK14304); 5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-6-(2-propenyl)
                                                                                                 4
         4H-thiazolo[4,5-d]azepin-2-amine          (BHT920);       6-ethyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro- H
                                 2            (BHT933),      5,6-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-l
         oxaazolo[4,5-d]azepin- -amine
  35     naphyl-imidazoline (A-54741).

                                       -35
                                    Table 19
                   Therapeutic and Preferred Concentrations of
                      Alpha-2 Adrenergic Receptor Agonists
                    Therapeutic     Therapeutic                       Most
                    Acceptable        Efficient        Preferred    Preferred
                  Concentrations   Concentrations   Concentrations Concentration
    Compounds          [(n_:1                              2            inK
     clonidine    0.002-200,000     0.01-50,000       0.1-10,000     10-2,000
  dexmedetomidine 0.002-200,000     0.01-50,000        0.1-10,000    10-2,000
     UK14304      0.002-200,000      0.01-50,000       0.1-10,000    10-2,000
   oxymetazoline  0.001-100,000      0.01-25,000      0.05-15,000    5-10,000
       NS-49      0.002-200,000      0.01-50,000       0.1-10,000    10-2,000
    AGN192172     0.005-100,000       0.1-25,000         1-5,000     10-1,000
    AGN193080      0.005-100,000      0.1-25,000         1-5,000     10-1,000
    AGN191103      0.002-200,000      0.1-25,000         1-5,000     10-1,000
      A-54741      0.002-200,000      0.1-50,000        1-10,000      10-2,000
      BHT920       0.003-200,000      0.3-50,000        3-30,000     30-5,000
      BHT933       0,003-200,000      0.3-50,000        3-30,000      30-5,000
5

                                                   -36
                                        F. Multi-function Agents
                                                                            of preferred agents to
                In a further aspect of the present invention, selection
                                                                     into consideration particular
      include in an ophthalmologic irrigation solution takes
                                                           of the above functional classes. The
      agents that display efficacy in more than one
                                                              agonists provide examples of this,
 5    previously described alpha-2 adrenergic receptor
                                                                         and agents that inhibit
      as they may function as both IOP reducing agents
                                                                                   inflammation by
       inflammation and pain. For example, oxymetazoline inhibits ocular
                                                                            J. Ocul. Pharmacol.,
       inhibiting release of sensory neurotransmitters (Fuder H.,
                                                                                               agonist
       10:109-123 (1994)). Oxymetazoline also functions as a mydriatic agent via
                                                                                            activity at
10     activity at alpha-l-adrenergic receptors and also decreases IOP via agonist
                                                                               53:259-270 (1996)).
       alpha-2-adrenergic receptors (Chu T. et al, Pharmacology,
                                                                                       for inhibiting
       NSAIDS, in addition to anti-inflammatory effects, also are indicated
                                                                        properties.     Such multi
        intra-operative miosis, thereby possessing mydriatic
                                                                            solutions of the present
        functional agents may suitably be used in the ophthalmologic
                                                                           that provide at least one
15      invention when combined with an additional agent or agents
                                                                           by the multifunctional
         additional ophthalmologic function not already provided
         agent.
                                                                                       side-effects of
                  In addition to choosing multi-functional agents, avoiding toxic
                                                                                               delivery
         these topically applied agents is also of importance. An advantage of topical
                                                                               local effects of these
 20      is a significant reduction in systemic side effects. However,
                                                                                 local anesthetics or
         agents, such as reduced wound healing with high-concentration
                                                                            low concentrations that
          steroids, must by considered. Therefore, local anesthetics at
                                                                                        problems are
          effectively inhibit neuronal discharge yet avoid wound-healing
                                                                   al, Invest. Ophthahnol.Vis. Sci.,
          preferred for use in the present invention (Bisla K, et
                                                                                    to be as effective
 25       33:3029-3033 (1992).).. Because NSAIDS have been demonstrated
                                                                                             S. et al, J.
          as steroids for controlling inflammation following ocular surgery (Dadeya
          Pedi.~OjhthalindLTSasisiis.,39l66:168~~(2002));-NSAIDSte "preferredto
          avoid the potential non-specific detrimental effects of steroids.
                                                                                                surgical
                   Depending on the specific requirements of various ophthalmologic
                                                              solutions of the     present    invention
  30      procedures, a variety of suitable irrigation
                                                                                     with the present
           including 2 or more agents may be formulated in accordance
                                                                               from all of the named
           invention, but each solution might not include agents drawn
           functional categories (i.e., analgesic, anti-inflammatory, mydriati, and IOP reducing
                                                               formulated in accordance with the
           agents). For example, an irrigation solution
                                                                                          an analgesic,
   35      disclosure herein for use during cataract surgery may not require
           because this procedure is not as painful as a vitrectomy.

                                                -37
                                        G. Irrigation Carriers
              The active agents of the present invention are solubilized within a physiologic
                                                                    solution that may include
     liquid irrigation carrier. The carrier is suitably an aqueous
                                                                              solution. More
     physiologic electrolytes, such as normal saline or lactated Ringer's
                                                                                     all of the
 5   preferably, the carrier includes one or more adjuvants, and preferably
                                                                                            salt
     following adjuvants: sufficient electrolytes to provide. a physiological balanced
     solution; a cellular energy source; a buffering agent; and a free-radical scavenger.
                                                                                            salt
      One suitable solution (referred to in the examples below as a "preferred balanced
      solution" includes: electrolytes of from 50 to 500 millimolar sodium ions, from 0.1 to
10    50 millimolar potassium ions, from 0.1 to 5 millimolar calcium ions, from 0.1 to 5
                                                                                              to
      millimolar magnesium ions, from 50 to 500 millimolar chloride ions, and from 0.1
      10 millimolar phosphate; bicarbonate as a buffer at a concentration of from 10 to 50
      millimolar; a cellular energy source selected from dextrose and glucose, at a
      concentration of from 1 to 25 millimolar; and glutathione as a free-radical scavenger
                                                                                The pH of the
15    (i.e., anti-oxidant) at a concentration of from 0.05 to 5 millimolar.
      irrigation solution is suitable when controlled at between 5.5 and 8.0, preferably at a
      pH of 7.4.
                                     V.    Method of Application
                The solution of the present invention has applications for a variety of
                                                                                     therapeutic
 20    operative/interventional procedures, including surgical, diagnostic and
       techniques. The irrigation solution is applied perioperatively during ophthalmologic
       surgery. As defined above, the term "perioperative" encompasses application
       intraprocedurally, pre- and intraprocedurally, intra- and postprocedurally, and pre-,
       intra- and postprocedurally. Preferably, the solution is applied preprocedurally
 25    and/or postprocedurally as well as intraprocedurally. The irrigation solution is most
                                                                                              the
       preferably applied to the wound or surgical site prior to the initiation of
                                                                                    throughout a
       procedure, preferably before substantial tissue trauma, and continuously
                                                                                             and
        major portion or for the duration of the procedure, to preemptively block pain
        inflammation, inhibit intraocular pressure increases, and/or cause mydriasis. As
  30    defined previously, continuous application of the irrigation fluid of the present
        invention may be carried out as an uninterrupted application, or repeated and frequent
                                                                                                 a
        irrigation of wounds or procedural sites at a frequency sufficient to maintain
        predetermined therapeutic local concentration of the applied agents, or an application
         in which there may be intermittent cessation of irrigation fluid flow necessitated by

                                                -38
                                                                                          the
    operating technique. At the conclusion of the procedure, additional amounts of
    therapeutic agents may be introduced, such as by intraocular injection of an
    additional amount of the irrigation fluid including the same or a higher concentration
    of the active agents, or by intraocular injection or topical application of the agents in
 5  a viscoelastic gel.
             The concentrations listed for each of the agents within the solutions of the
    present invention are the concentrations of the agents delivered locally, in the
     absence of metabolic transformation, to the operative site in order to achieve a
    predetermined level of effect at the operative site. This solution utilizes extremely
10   low doses of these pain and inflammation inhibitors, due to the local application of
     the agents directly to the operative site during the procedure.
              In each of the surgical solutions of the present invention, the agents are
     included in low concentrations and are delivered locally in low doses relative to
     concentrations and doses required with systemic methods of drug administration to
15   achieve the desired therapeutic effect at the procedural site.
                                          VI.    Examples
              The following are exemplary formulations in accordance with the present
      invention suitable for ophthalmologic procedures.
                                                 Example 1
20             Exemplary ophthalmologic solutions of the present invention for use during
      cataract removal surgery are described in Tables 20, 21 and 22. This solution, and
      the following solutions of Tables 23-25, are provided by way of example only, and
      are not intended to limit the invention. Anti-inflammatories are believed to be
      particularly useful in cataract solutions of the invention, to potentially reduce the
25    post-operative incidence of, or hasten resolution of, cystoid macular edema (CME).
      T sE        iliiad                   tli- otherr     xisiplif -plithaliuoosigi"-iigti-rff
      solutions described herein below are provided in terms of the concentration of each
      agent included in the previously described preferred balanced-salt solution. The
      solution may suitably be supplied in 500 ml bags, this being the quantity of irrigation
 30   solution typically applied during a procedure, by way of non-limiting example.

                                              -39
                                                Table 20
                                    Exemplary Cataract Solution
                                           Concentration
   Class of Agent     Drug                 (Nanomolar):                   Most
                                           Therapeutic       Preferred    Preferred
      anti-           flurbiprofen        10-1,000,000     100-100,000   1,000-10,000
      inflammatory
      IOP red. agent   timolol            10-1,000,000     100-100,000   1,000-10,000
       mnydriatic      phenylephrine      50-500,000       500-100,000   1,000-10,000
5                                               Table 21
                                Alternate Exemplary Cataract Solution
                                            Concentration
    Class of Agent     Prug                 (Nanomolar):                   Most
                                            Therapeutic       Preferred    Preferred
       anti-            ketoprofen         10-1,000,000     100-100,000   1,000-10,000
       inflammatory
       IOP red. agent   timolol            10-1,000,000     100-100,000   1,000-10,000
       mydriatic        tropicamide        10-1,000,000     100-100,000   1,000-10,000
                                                 Table 22
10                               Alternate Exemplary Cataract Solution
                                             Concentration
     Class of Agent     Drug                 (Nanomolar):                   Most
                                             Therapeutic       Preferred    Preferred
        mydriatic, IOP oxymetazoline        10-1,000,000    100-100,000    1,000-10,000
        red. agent
        anti-            flurbiprofen       10-1,000,000     100-100,000   1,000-10,000
        inflammtory

                                              -40
                                               Example 2
            A similar irrigation solution including multiple agents for effective reduction
    of inflammation and to provide mydriasis for invasive ophthalmologic surgery, such
    as a trabeculectomy, is provided in Table 23.
5                                               Table 23
                                  Exemplary Trabeculectomy Solution
                                            Concentration
   Class of Agent       Drug                (Nanomolar):                        Most
                                            Therapeutic       Preferred         Preferred
      anti-              prednisolone      10-1,000,000     100-100,000       1,000-10,000
      inflammatory
      anti-              flurbiprofen      10-1,000,000     100-100,000       1,000-10,000
      inflammatory
      IOP red. agent     timolol           10-1,000,000     100-100,000        1,000-10,000
      mydriatic          phenylephrine     50-500,000       500-100,000        1,000-10,000
                                                Example 3
10           Irrigation solutions suitably used for extensive ophthalmologic surgery or
     posterior ocular chamber procedures, such as vitrectomy, provide increased analgesia
     by the addition of a local anesthetic. Such solutions of the present invention
     including a local anesthetic are provided in Tables 24 and 25.

                                             -41
                                              Table 24
                        Exemplary Local Anesthetic Ophthalmologic Solution
                                           Concentration
   Class of Agent         M                (Nanomolar):                      Most
                                           Therapeutic        Preferred      Preferred
     IOP red. agent     timolol          10-1,000,000      100-100,000     1,000-10,000
     anti-              flurbiprofen     10-1,000,000      100-100,000     1,000-10,000
     inflammatory
     mydriatic          tropicamide      10-1,000,000      100-100,000      1,000-10,000
      analgesic         lidocaine        1,000-            10,000-          100,000-1,000,000
                                         100,000,000       10,000,000
 5                                             Table 25
                   Alternate Exemplary Local Anesthetic Ophthalmologic Solution
                                           Concentration
   Class of Agent       Drug               (Nanomolar):                      Most
                                           Therapeutic        Preferred      Preferred
      IOP red. agent     timolol          10-1,000,000     100-100,000      1,000-10,000
      anti-              flurbiprofen     10-1,000,000     100-100,000      1,000-10,000
      inflammatory
      mydriatic          tropicamide      10-1,000,000     100-100,000      1,000-10,000
      analgesic_.    .   bupivacaine      125-400,000      1,000-300,000    225,000-275,000
            While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and
10  described, it will be appreciated that various changes to the disclosed solutions and
    methods can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the
    invention. For example, alternate pain inhibitors, inflammation inhibitors, IOP
    reducing agents and mydriatic agents may be discovered that may augment or replace
    the disclosed agents in accordance with the disclosure contained herein.           It is
15  therefore intended that the scope of letters patent granted hereon be limited only by
    the definitions of the appended claims.

7132b
                                                       -41a
                                                                                                        as, an
                Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken
                                                                          forms part of the common general
        acknowledgment, or any form of suggestion, that this prior art
                                                                                      reasonably be expected
        knowledge in Australia or any other jurisdiction or that this prior art could
                                                                                      the art.
        to be ascertained, understood and regarded as relevant by a person skilled in
                                                                                               "comprise" and
      5         As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term
                                                                                          are not intended to
        variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised",
        exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.        A method for promoting mydriasis during an intraocular ophthalmologic procedure,
comprising intraocular application of a solution comprising a local anesthetic agent combined
with a mydriatic agent that is an alpha-1 adrenergic receptor agonist in a physiologic carrier,
wherein the agents are included in therapeutically effective amounts for mydriasis during the
procedure when delivered intraocularly.
2.        The method of Claim 1, wherein the local anesthetic agent is selected from the group
consisting of lidocaine, tetracaine, bupivacaine, and proparacaine.
3.        The method of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the alpha-1 adrenergic receptor agonist is
selected from the group consisting of phenylephrine, epinephrine and oxymetazoline.
4.        The method of any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the alpha-1 adrenergic receptor
agonist is selected from the group consisting of phenylephrine and epinephrine.
5.        The method of Claim 4, wherein the local anesthetic agent is selected from the group
consisting of lidocaine, tetracaine, bupivacaine, and proparacaine.
6.        The method of any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein the solution is applied in a liquid
irrigation carrier.
7.        The method of Claim 6, wherein the solution is applied by intraocular irrigation.
8.        The method of Claim 6 or Claim 7, wherein the liquid irrigation carrier further
comprises electrolytes sufficient to provide a physiological balanced salt solution.
9.        The method of any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein the solution is continuously applied
to the intraocular tissues during the intraocular procedure.
10.       The method of any one of Claims 1 to 9, wherein the solution further comprises a
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID).
11.       The method of any one of Claims 1 to 10, wherein the alpha-1 adrenergic receptor
agonist is included in the solution at a concentration of no more than 1,000,000 nanomolar and
the local anesthetic agent is included in the solution at a concentration of no more than
100,000,000 nanomolar.

