ABSTRACT
An adjustable apparatus (90) comprising: a platform (12); and a pair of
symmetrically opposed legs (91) for standing or mounting on a surface and on
which the platform (12) is mounted, the legs (91) being adjustable so as to alter
the height of the platform (12) above the surface, each leg (91) having outer and
inner ends, wherein adjustment of the legs (91) involves concomitant pivoting
without displacement at their respective outer ends and pivoting plus horizontal
displacement at their respective inner ends, thereby altering the height of the
platform (91) with respect to the surface.

                                          -1
                            ADJUSTABLE APPARATUS
   TECHNICAL FIELD
           The present invention relates to adjustable apparatus, or adjustable
 5 support structures or mechanisms therefor. In a particular aspect, the
   invention relates to adjustable apparatus having height adjustable platforms,
   or adjustable support structures or mechanisms for adjusting platform height.
   In another or more       particular aspect, the invention relates to height
   adjustable workstations mountable on surfaces of objects such as desks or
10 floors.
   BACKGROUND ART
           Any discussion of documents, devices, acts or knowledge in this
   specification is included to explain the context of the invention. It should not
is be taken as an admission that any of the material forms a part of the prior art
   base or the common general knowledge in the relevant art in Australia or
   elsewhere on or before the priority date of the disclosure and broad
   consistory statements herein.
           Consistent prolonged sitting at a work desk is associated with serious
20 health conditions, including disk related low back pain, heart disease,
   diabetes, cancer and reduced life span. Given this, it may be advantageous
   to provide an apparatus, such as that of the present invention, which enables
   a user to alternate between sitting and standing at their work desk, thereby
   enabling the user to reduce the length of each sitting period, as well as
25 overall sitting time.
           One solution to this problem has been to make the work desk itself
   height adjustable.     However, such solutions are typically more complex,
   expensive and prone to breakage, and more difficult to store and transport,
   than fixed height desks. Therefore, height adjustable work desks have not
30 been taken up as a suitable solution for the most part, particularly not as a
   means of prophylaxis.
           U.S. Patent Publication no. 2015/0250303 Al describes an alternative
   solution in which a height adjustable platform is sat upon a fixed height desk.

                                           -2
   Specifically, the adjustable desk platform described includes: a monitor
   platform defining a substantially planar work surface; a base located beneath
   the monitor platform, the base defining a bottom surface without legs that is
   adapted to sit on an existing desk; first and second sets of arms coupling the
 5 monitor platform to the base, wherein the first and second sets of arms are
   adapted for movement of the monitor platform substantially in parallel with
   the base between a fully raised position and a fully lowered position; and a
   user-operable locking mechanism associated with the upper platform, the
   locking mechanism adapted to releasably lock the upper platform in the fully
10 raised position, and in at least one intermediate position between the fully
   raised position and the fully lowered position. A computer monitor is to be
   mounted on the monitor platform, and the apparatus further includes a
   keyboard tray for mounting of a keyboard thereon.
           Unfortunately, the solution described in U.S. Patent Publication no.
15 2015/0250303 Al suffers from various drawbacks. For instance, in order to
   raise the monitor platform, the sets of arms pivot at their lower ends without
   any simultaneous horizontal movement of the their upper ends with respect
   to the monitor platform, thereby resulting in forward movement of the monitor
   platform into the limited work space of a user as the platform is raised.
20 Further,   such   an off balanced       arrangement    requires the    use  of a
   counterweight, adding unnecessary weight to the device.           Moreover, the
   height of the monitor platform is not continuously lockable in the sense that
   an anchor must be selectively engaged in one of a number of perforations to
   lock the platform at a predetermined height. Of course, the ergonomic height
25 of the platform for a user may not always correspond with the predetermined
   heights available. Additionally, to raise or lower the monitor platform, the user
   must use a handle to release an anchor and then manually lift or lower the
   upper platform.    This places undue stress on the user's body given the
   substantial weight of various components such as the platform and monitor
30 resting thereupon. Although a booster spring is used to assist upward
   movement, the assistance it provides is limited and it is only effective in
   providing assistance in or near the fully lowered position. Further still, whilst

                                          -3
   mentioning in passing that the keyboard tray can be located at an adjustable
   distance from the base platform, the trays in the embodiments shown and
   described are not height adjustable. Thus, the absence of embodiments with
   an enabling disclosure of a keyboard tray which is height adjustable
 5 independently of the monitor platform presents difficulties for ergonomically
   setting up various users with differing vertical distances between the eye line
   and the elbow line.
          Thus, it may be advantageous to provide a new apparatus having a
   height adjustable platform, or a new adjustable support structure or
10 mechanism for facilitating platform height adjustment, which reduces, limits,
   overcomes, or ameliorates          some    of the    problems,    drawbacks,     or
   disadvantages associated with prior art devices, or provides an effective or
   improved alternative to such devices.
15 DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION
          In one aspect, the invention provides an adjustable apparatus
   comprising:
          a platform;
          an adjustable support structure for standing or mounting on a surface
20 and on which the platform is disposed, the support structure comprising,
                  a frame, and
                  at least one leg having first and second ends; and
          an adjustment mechanism for continuous adjustment of the support
   structure so as to alter the height of the platform above the surface between
25 a lowered configuration in which the at least one leg is folded alongside the
   platform and a raised configuration in which the at least one leg is opened
   away from the platform, wherein adjustment of the support structure involves
   concomitant pivoting of the at least one leg at its first end, and pivoting and
   displacement of the at least one leg at its second end, the adjustment
30 mechanism comprising,
                  a rotating portion adapted to be rotated to alter the height of the
   platform, wherein effective locking of the platform height occurs at any

                                           -4
   position in the continuous height range once rotation of the rotating portion
   ceases,
                  a running portion adapted for movement on rotation of the
   rotating portion, the running portion comprising at least one running member
 5 adapted to run along the frame, the second end of the at least one leg being
   pivotally connected with the at least one running member, and
                  at least one swing member for causing initial outward pivoting
   of the leg about its connection with the running member, the at least one
   swing member comprising a ramped portion along which a portion of the at
10 least one leg travels during initial elevation of the platform from the lowered
   position,
   wherein elevation of the platform from the lowered position is initiated by the
   at least one swing member urging the at least one leg to swing out by
   rotation about its connection with the at least one running member, following
is which, movement of the at least one running member along the frame causes
   further rotation about, and also displacement of, the at least one leg's
   connection with the at least one running member, resulting in further opening
   of the at least one leg and raising of the platform.
          The platform may take any various forms, such as a desk top, a
20 benchtop, a roof, a mattress, or a floor, including a floor of an object, device,
   vehicle, or dwelling.
          The surface may be an surface of any of various objects such as the
   ground, flooring, a desk top, or a frame, for example a bed frame, or a
   construction frame. The surface may be an upwardly facing surface.
25         In another aspect, the invention provides an adjustable support
   structure for standing or mounting on an object or surface and on which a
   platform can be disposed, the support structure comprising,
           a frame;
           at least one leg having first and second ends; and
30         an adjustment mechanism for continuous adjustment of the support
   structure so as to alter the height of the platform, when disposed thereon,
   above the surface between a lowered configuration in which the at least one

                                           -5
   leg is folded alongside the platform and a raised configuration in which the at
   least one leg is opened away from the platform, wherein adjustment of the
   support structure involves concomitant pivoting of the at least one leg at its
   first end, and pivoting and displacement of the at least one leg at its second
 5 end, the adjustment mechanism comprising,
                  a rotating portion adapted to be rotated to alter the height of the
   platform, wherein effective locking of the platform height occurs at any
   position in the continuous height range once rotation of the rotating portion
   ceases,
10                a running portion adapted for movement on rotation of the
   rotating portion, the running portion comprising at least one running member
   adapted to run along the frame, the second end of the at least one leg being
   pivotally connected with the at least one running member, and
                  at least one swing member for causing initial outward pivoting
is of the leg about its connection with the running member, the at least one
   swing member comprising a ramped portion along which a portion of the at
   least one leg travels during initial elevation of the platform from the lowered
   position,
   wherein elevation of the platform from the lowered position is initiated by the
20 at least one swing member urging the at least one leg to swing out by
   rotation about its connection with the at least one running member, following
   which, movement of the at least one running member along the frame causes
   further rotation about, and also displacement of, the at least one leg's
   connection with the at least one running member, resulting in further opening
25 of the at least one leg and raising of the platform.
        In another aspect, the invention provides an adjustable apparatus, for
   example an adjustable workstation, comprising:
        a platform adapted to support a computer keyboard thereon; and
        a support structure for standing or mounting on a desk, or floor, or other
30 surface and on which the platform is disposed, the support structure being
   adjustable so as to alter the height of the platform above the surface.

                                            -6
       In another aspect, the invention provides an adjustable apparatus
   comprising,
           a first platform, and
           a first adjustable leg on which the first platform is disposed, the first
 5 leg having first and second ends, wherein adjustment of the leg comprises
   concomitant: pivoting of the leg at its first end, pivoting of the leg at its
   second end, and running, rolling, translation, or sliding of the leg at its second
   end, thereby resulting in a change in height of the first platform.
           The running, rolling, translation, or sliding of the first leg at its second
10 end may be in a substantially horizontal direction.
           The change in height of the first platform may be absent any horizontal
   translation thereof.
           There may be a pair of first legs. Each first leg may extend in opposite
   directions. The pair of first legs may be opposed. They may be symmetrically
is opposed. They may be symmetrical in a transverse plane. The transverse
   plane may be a midline transverse plane.
           There may be a pair of swing member. The swing members may be
   opposed. They may be symmetrically opposed. They may be symmetrical in
   a transverse plane. The transverse plane may be a midline transverse plane.
20         There may be a pair of running members. The running members may
   be opposed. They may be symmetrically opposed. They may be symmetrical
   in a transverse plane. The transverse plane may be a midline transverse
   plane. The workstation may further comprise,
           a second platform, and
25         a second adjustable leg disposed on the first platform, and on which
   the second platform is disposed, the second leg having first and second
   ends, wherein adjustment of the second leg comprises concomitant: pivoting
   of the second leg at its first end, pivoting of the second leg at its second end,
   and running, rolling, translation, or sliding of the second leg at its second end,
30 thereby resulting in a change in height of the second platform.
           The running, rolling, translation, or sliding of the second leg at its
   second end may be in a substantially horizontal direction.

                                           -7
          The change in height of the second platform may be absent horizontal
   translation thereof.
          There may be a pair of second legs. Each second leg may extend in
   opposite directions.
 5     In another aspect, the invention provides an adjustable apparatus
   comprising:
       -  a first support structure for standing or mounting on an object or
          surface;
       -  a first platform supported on the first support structure; and
10     -  an adjustment mechanism for adjusting the height of the first platform
          above the surface, the adjustment mechanism comprising,
               -  a running portion adapted to run along a frame of the first
                   platform, an inner portion of the lower support structure being
                   pivotally connected with the running portion, and
15             -  a swing member for causing pivoting of the lower support
                  structure about its pivotal connection with the running portion.
       In another aspect, the invention provides an adjustable apparatus
   comprising:
       -  a lower support structure for standing or mounting on an object or
20        surface,
       -  a lower platform supported by the lower support structure, the lower
          platform being adapted to support a computer keyboard thereon,
       -  a lower adjustment mechanism for adjusting the height of the lower
          platform above the surface,
25     -  an upper support structure mounted on the lower platform,
       -  an upper platform supported by the upper support structure, the upper
          platform being adapted to support a computer screen thereon, and
       -  an upper adjustment mechanism for adjusting the height of the upper
          platform above the lower platform.
30     In yet another aspect, the invention provides an adjustable apparatus
   comprising:

                                             -8
       -   a first or lower support structure for standing or mounting on an object
           or surface, the lower support structure comprising,
               -     a stationary base for standing or mounting on the surface,
               -     a leg having inner and outer ends, the outer end of the leg
 5                   being pivotally connected to the base, and
               -     a strut having inner and outer ends, the inner end of the strut
                     being pivotally connected to the leg,
       -   a lower platform supported on the lower support structure, the lower
           platform being adapted to support a computer keyboard thereon, the
10         outer end of the strut member being pivotally connected with the lower
           platform, the lower platform having a frame, and
       -   an adjustment mechanism for adjusting the height of the lower
           platform above the object or surface, between a lowered configuration
           in which the leg is folded towards or along the platform, and a raised
15         configuration in which the leg is extended away from the platform, the
           adjustment mechanism comprising,
               -     a running member adapted to run along the frame, the inner
                     end of the leg being pivotally connected with the running
                     member, and
20             -     a swing member for causing pivoting of the leg about its
                     connection with the running member,
               wherein elevation of the lower platform from the lowered position is
                initiated by the swing member urging the leg to pivot downwardly
                about its pivotal connection with the running member, following
25             which outward movement of the running member along the frame
                causes the inner end of the leg to travel outward and pivot further
                downward, resulting in extension of the leg and thereby raising the
                lower platform.
           The swing member may comprise a ramped portion along which a
30 portion of the leg may travel. The swing member may comprise a block.
           There may be a pair of legs. The legs may extend away from each
   other from their inner to outer ends. Each leg may extend laterally outward.

                                          -9
           The adjustment mechanism may comprise a further running member.
   The further running member may be configured to move outward.              The
   running member may initially remain stationary during raising of the lower
   platform whilst the further running member moves outward. Then, once the
 5 swing member has finished urging the leg to pivot downwardly, the running
   member may move outwardly with the further running member until leg
   extension is complete.
           The adjustment mechanism may be continuously adjustable. It may
   be manually adjustable by use of a handle. The adjustment mechanism may
10 further comprise a screw mechanism which is connected with and rotatable
   by manual rotation of the handle. Activation of the screw mechanism may
   result in outward movement of the inner running member.
       The work station may further comprise:
       -   a second or upper support structure for standing or mounting on the
15         lower platform, the upper support structure comprising,
               -  a stationary upper base for standing or mounting on the lower
                  platform,
               -  an upper leg having inner and outer ends, the outer end of the
                  upper leg being pivotally connected to the upper base, and
20             -  an upper strut having inner and outer ends, the inner end of the
                  upper strut being pivotally connected to the upper leg,
       -   an upper platform supported on the upper support structure, the upper
           platform being adapted to support a computer monitor thereon, the
           outer end of the upper strut member being pivotally connected with the
25         upper platform, the upper platform having an upper frame, and
       -   an upper adjustment mechanism for adjusting the height of the upper
           platform above the lower platform, between a lowered configuration in
           which the upper leg is folded towards or along the upper platform, and
           a raised configuration in which the upper leg is extended away from
30         the upper platform, the upper adjustment mechanism comprising,

                                          - 10
              -    an upper running member adapted to run along the frame, the
                   inner end of the upper leg being pivotally connected with the
                   upper running member, and
              -    an upper swing member for causing pivoting of the upper leg
 5                 about its connection with the upper running member,
              wherein elevation of the upper platform from its lowered position is
              initiated by the upper swing member urging the upper leg to pivot
              downwardly about its pivotal connection with the upper running
              member, following which outward movement of the upper running
10            member along the upper frame causes the inner end of the upper
              leg to travel outward and pivot further downward, resulting in
              extension of the upper leg and thereby raising the upper platform.
           The upper swing member may comprise a ramped portion along which
   a portion of the upper leg may travel. The upper swing member may
15 comprise an upper block.
           There may be a pair of upper legs. The upper legs may extend away
   from each other from their inner to outer ends. Each upper leg may extend
   laterally outwardly.
           The upper adjustment mechanism may comprise a further upper
20 running member.       The further upper running member may be configured
   move outwardly. The upper running member may initially remain stationary
   during raising of the lower platform whilst the further upper running member
   moves outward. Then, once the swing member has finished urging the leg to
   pivot downwardly, the running member may move outwardly with the further
25 running member until leg extension is complete. The upper adjustment
   mechanism may be continuously adjustable. It may be manually adjustable
   by use of a handle. The upper adjustment mechanism may further comprise
   a screw mechanism which is connected with and rotatable by manual rotation
   of the handle.      Activation of the upper screw mechanism may result in
30 outward movement of the inner running member.
           In another aspect, the invention provides an apparatus with a height
   adjustable platform, comprising:

                                          - 11
           a platform;
           an adjustable support on which the platform is disposed; and
           an automatic adjustment mechanism for automatically adjusting the
   height of the platform above a surface. The height of the platform may be
 5 automatically adjustable to a pre-determined, pre-saved or pre-set height.
          The apparatus may comprise a timer. The timer may be adapted to
   signal a user when the timer runs out. The timer may run whilst the platform
   height remains stationary. The timer may reset on height adjustment of the
   platform.
10        The automatic adjustment mechanism may comprise a computer. The
   computer may comprise the timer.
          The computer may comprise a processor. The computer may further
   comprise or be linked with a memory, user interface, display, power supply
   and/or network interface. The memory may store coded instructions. The
15 processor may be adapted to execute the coded instructions.
          The automatic adjustment mechanism may comprise a motor. When
   in operation, the motor may create a rotational torque for adjusting the
   adjustable support, thereby raising or lowering the platform. The computer or
   processor may operate the motor.
20        The user interface may comprise user input means. The user input
   means may comprise one or more touch or push buttons.
          The display may be adapted to display numerals representing the
   height of the platform. The computer or processor may operate the display.
           In another aspect, the invention may provide a method of operating an
25 adjustable apparatus having an automatic height adjustable platform, the
   method comprising:
           receiving input from a user relating to a height of the platform;
           saving the inputted height into a memory of or linked with the
   apparatus;
30         receiving input from a user to adjust the platform height to the saved
   height;

                                          - 12
           retrieving the saved height from the memory of or linked with the
   apparatus; and
           automatically adjusting the height of the platform to the saved height.
           In another aspect, the invention may provide a method of operation of
 5 an adjustable apparatus having an automatic height adjustable platform, the
   method comprising:
           receiving input from a user, via a user interface of the apparatus,
   relating to a height of the platform;
           saving the inputted height into a memory of the apparatus;
10         receiving input from a user to adjust the platform height to the saved
   height;
           retrieving the saved height from the memory of the apparatus; and
           automatically adjusting the height of the platform to the saved height.
           The method may comprise receiving input from the user relating to the
is duration of a timer of the apparatus, running the timer whilst the platform is
   stationary, and triggering a signal to the user, or automatically adjusting the
   height of the platform, on completion of the timer.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
20         In order that the invention may be more clearly understood and put
   into practical effect there shall now be described in detail preferred
   constructions of the invention. The ensuing description is given by way of
   non-limitative examples only and is with reference to the accompanying
   drawing, wherein:
25         Fig. 1 is top perspective view of a first version of an adjustable
   apparatus, in this instance in the particular form of a desk mountable
   workstation, in accordance with the invention, in a folded configuration;
           Fig. 2 is a bottom perspective view of the desk mountable workstation
   in the folded configuration;
30         Fig. 3 is a bottom plan view of the desk mountable workstation in the
   folded configuration;
           Fig. 4 is a top perspective view of the desk mountable workstation in a
   semi-open configuration;

                                              - 13
            Fig. 5 is a bottom perspective view of the desk mountable workstation
   in the semi-open configuration;
            Fig 6 is a bottom plan view of the desk mountable workstation in the
   semi-open configuration;
 5          Fig. 7 is top perspective view of the desk mountable workstation in a
   fully open configuration;
            Fig. 8 is a bottom perspective view of the desk mountable workstation
   in the fully open configuration;
            Fig. 9 is a bottom plan view of the desk mountable workstation in the
10 fully open configuration;
            Fig. 10 is a top perspective view of the desk mountable workstation in
   the semi-open configuration with a lower platform removed;
            Fig. 11 is a top plan view of the lower adjustment mechanism and
   lower support structure of the desk mountable workstation in the semi-open
15 configuration;
            Fig. 12 is a diagrammatic perspective view illustrating running a lift
   initiation portion of the adjustment mechanism in respect of the lower or
   upper right rear leg of the workstation;
            Figs. 13 to 17 are a sequence of diagrammatic front side views
20 illustrating operation of the lift initiation portion during extension of the lower /
   upper right rear leg, from zero degrees in Figure 13, to ten degrees in Figure
   14, to twenty degrees in Figure 15, to thirty degrees in Figure 16, and finally
   to leg full extension in Figure 17;
            Fig. 18 is a bottom perspective view of an upper platform of the desk
25 mountable workstation in the folded configuration;
            Fig. 19 is a bottom plan view of the upper platform in the folded
   configuration;
            Fig. 20 is a bottom perspective view of the upper platform in the semi
   open configuration;
30          Fig. 21 is a bottom plan view of the upper platform in the semi-open
   configuration;

                                            - 14
          Fig. 22 is a bottom perspective view of the upper platform in the fully
   open configuration;
          Fig. 23 is a bottom plan view of the upper platform in the fully open
   configuration;
 5        Fig. 24 is a top plan view of the upper adjustment mechanism and
   upper support structure, mounted atop the lower platform, and in the semi
   open configuration;
          Fig. 25 is a top perspective view of the desk mountable workstation in
   the semi-open configuration with the upper platform removed; and
10        Figs. 26 to 31 are a sequence of bottom perspective views illustrating
   operation of the lift initiation portion during extension of the lower / upper right
   rear leg from zero degrees in Figure 26 out to around 45 degrees in Figure
   31.
          Fig. 32 is a front perspective view from above of a second version of a
15 desk mountable workstation in an open configuration;
          Fig. 33 is a rear perspective view from below of the second version
   workstation in an open configuration;
          Fig. 34 is a rear perspective view from below of the second version
   workstation in a closed configuration;
20        Fig. 35 is a diagram of a user interface for facilitating electronic height
   adjustment of the second version workstation;
          Fig. 36 is a block diagram of computer hardware for implementing
   platform height adjustment of the second version workstation; and
          Figs. 37 & 38 combined provide a flowchart illustrating an example
25 process that may be implemented by the computer.
   MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
          Referring now to Figures 1 to 9, there is shown a first version of an
   apparatus having a height adjustable platform which in the embodiment
30 shown is in the form of a desk mountable workstation, generally designated
   10, being continuously movable or adjustable between a fully closed or flat
   configuration as shown in Figures 1 to 3, an intermediate or part open

                                         - 15
   configuration as show in Figures 4 to 6, and a fully open or extended
   configuration as shown in Figures 7 to 9.
           The workstation 10 comprises an adjustable lower support structure
   11 for mounting or seating on a surface such as a desk top, a lower platform
 5 12 mounted on the lower support structure 11, an adjustable upper support
   structure 13 mounted atop the lower platform 11, and an upper platform 14
   mounted on the upper support structure 13.         Further, the workstation 10
   comprises a lower adjustment mechanism 15 for continuous adjustment of
   the lower support structure 11 and thereby the height of the lower platform 12
10 with respect to the desk top, and an upper adjustment mechanism 16 for
   continuous adjustment of the upper support structure 13 and thereby the
   height of the upper platform 14 with respect to the lower platform.
           The lower platform 13 comprises a rectangular timber panel 17 or
   table top with rounded corners and bevelled edges as shown. Similarly, the
15 upper platform 14 comprises a timber panel 18 or table top with rounded and
   bevelled edges as shown. The upper platform 14 is of similar length to the
   lower timber panel / lower platform, but is only approximately one third to one
   half as wide from front to back as the lower timber panel / lower platform.
   The upper platform is located directly above a rear portion of the lower
20 platform.
           The lower support structure 11 comprises a left and right lower
   support portions, 19 and 20 respectively, configured as a mirror image of
   each other in a midline transverse plane.          Each portion comprises a
   transverse base rod 21 extending from front to rear and interconnecting a
25 lower front leg 23 and a lower rear leg 24.
           Each lower leg, 22 and 23, comprises parallel lower front and rear
   rods, 26 and 27 respectively, interconnected with spacers 28, and ending
   distally by pivotal attachment to a foot bracket 29 (see also Fig. 12) mounted
   on the desk. A lower front strut 24 pivotally connects the lower front leg 22 to
30 the lower platform 12, and a lower rear strut 25 pivotally connects the lower
   rear leg 23 to the lower platform 12.

                                            - 16
           Referring now to Figures 10 and 11, the lower adjustment mechanism
   comprises a lower rotating portion 30, a lower running portion 31, and a lower
   initial assist mechanism 55 (see Figure 12). The rotating portion 30
   comprises a foldable handle 32 connected with an elongate first screw
 5 member 33, the first screw member passing through and being anchored
   beneath the lower platform by a pair of first guide blocks 34, and ending in a
   circular bevelled first gear 35. Articulating perpendicularly with the first gear
   35 are circular bevelled second and third gears, 36 and 37 respectively. The
   second gear 36 is secured to the end of an elongated second screw member
10 38 which extends away perpendicularly to the right of the first screw member
   33, and the third gear 37 is secured to the end of an elongated third screw
   member 39 which extends away perpendicularly to the left of the first screw
   member.      A pair of first guide blocks 40 is mounted beneath the lower
   platform 12 near opposite ends of the second screw member 38, receiving
is the second screw member therethrough.           Similarly, a pair of second guide
   blocks 41 is mounted beneath the platform towards opposite ends of the third
   screw member 39, receiving the third screw member therethrough.
           The running portion 30 of the lower adjustment mechanism comprises
   a pair of first running blocks 42 receiving the second screw member 38
20 therethrough, and a pair of second running blocks 43 receiving the third
   screw member 39 therethrough. The pair of first running blocks 42 is fixedly
   mounted on and moves horizontally with a first transverse plate 44. Similarly,
   the pair of second running blocks 43 is fixedly mounted on and moves
   horizontally with a second transverse plate 45.        A linear elongated slot 88
25 with rounded ends (see Fig. 26) is defined in the outer wall of an inverted U
   shaped end of the first lower transverse plate 44. In fact, there are four slots
   88, one in each of the vertical front and rear walls of each of the first and
   second lower transverse plates, 44 and 45 respectively.
           Attached to the front inverted U-shaped end of the first transverse
30 plate 44 is a lateral or outer first front wheel bracket 46b, and attached to the
   rear inverted U-shaped end of the first transverse plate 44 is a lateral or outer
   rear first wheel bracket 47b. Medial to each of the outer first lower wheel

                                         - 17
   brackets, 46b and 47b respectively, are inner or medial first wheel brackets,
   46a and 47a. Similarly, attached to the front inverted U-shaped end of the
   second transverse plate 45 is a lateral or outer front second wheel bracket
   48b, and attached to the rear inverted U-shaped end of the second
 5 transverse plate 45 is a lateral or outer rear second wheel bracket 49b.
   Medial to each of the outer second wheel brackets, 48b and 49b respectively,
   are inner or medial first wheel brackets, 48a and 49a. A pin 89 passing
   through the most medial, inner or upper spacer of each lower leg, and
   projecting through its respective slot 88, pivotally or rotatably connects each
10 lower leg to its respective inner medial wheel bracket. Each of the front and
   rear, first and second wheel brackets has a line of three wheels 50 mounted
   thereon (see also Figure 12). The wheels 50 of the pair of front first wheel
   brackets 46 roll or run in a C-shaped front first channel 51 which is secured
   peripherally about the underside of the lower platform, whilst the wheels 50 of
is the pair of rear first wheel brackets 47 roll or run in a C-shaped rear first
   channel 52 which is secured peripherally about the underside of the lower
   platform. Similarly, the wheels 50 of the pair of front second wheel brackets
   48 roll or run in a C-shaped front second channel 53 which is secured
   peripherally about the underside of the lower platform, whilst the wheels 50 of
20 the pair of rear second wheel brackets 49 roll or run in a C-shaped rear first
   channel 54 which is secured peripherally about the underside of the lower
   platform.
            Referring to Figure 12, there is shown part of the lower initial assist
   mechanism 55 comprising a partially wedge shaped block 56 which is fixed
25 to and projects down from the underside of roof of the inverted U-shaped end
   of the transverse plate 44. The wedge block 56 has a ramped undersurface
   57, angled at about forty five degrees, and which continues into a flat
   undersurface 58. In fact, the lower initial assist mechanism comprises four
   lower wedge blocks 56, one for engagement with the second most medial
30 spacer of each lower leg during the initial phase of opening.
            In order to manually raise the height of the lower platform 12, a user
   retracts and folds out a grasping segment 59 of the handle 32. The user then

                                          - 18
   grasps segment 59 and rotates the handle in a clockwise direction. The
   clockwise rotation of the handle 32 in turn causes clockwise rotation of the
   first screw member 33 and its first bevelled gear wheel 35. The rotating first
   gear's articulation with the second and third bevelled gear wheels, 36 and 37
 5 respectively, causes clockwise rotation of the second and third gears and
   their respective second and third screw members, 38 and 39 respectively.
   Unlike the fixed guide blocks which are unmoved by rotation of the screw
   members therethrough, the first and second pairs of running blocks, 42 and
   43 respectively, move laterally out along their respective rotating second and
10 third screw members. Being affixed to the first and second pairs of running
   blocks, the first and second transverse plates, 44 and 45 respectively, are
   moved laterally towards their respective sides of the lower platform 12.
   Concomitantly, the wheels 50 of the front and rear, first and second lateral
   wheel brackets, 46b, 47b, 48b, 49b, roll laterally outwards along and within
is the front and rear, first and second, channels, 51-54.
           As shown in Figures 13 to 17 and 26 to 31, lateral movement of the
   transverse plates also results in concomitant lateral movement of respective
   wedge blocks 56.         As each wedge blocks move laterally, its ramped
   undersurface 57 runs over the second most medial spacer 28 of the
20 corresponding lower leg, thereby causing the second spacer to effectively run
   down the ramp during the first fifteen degrees or so of leg extension. As this
   occurs, the leg is forced to swing out, rotating about the leg's pivotal
   connection to its respective medial wheel bracket. Initially, whilst the ramp
   swings the lower leg out, the medial wheel bracket remains stationary until
25 the medial end of the slot 88 abuts against the projecting member or pin 89
   to which it is connected, which then pushes it laterally along in its channel.
   As the medial bracket is pushed laterally, the medial end of the lower leg,
   which is pivotally connected to the medial wheel bracket, also moves
   laterally. As the lower end of the lower leg remains fixed by virtue of its
30 stationary foot bracket, the upper end of the leg is forced to pivot and rise
   upwards, thereby raising the height of the lower platform. Extension of each
   lower leg is also controlled by its respective pivotally attached strut.

                                         - 19
           Thus, initial pivoting of the leg into extension is facilitated by the
   ramping mechanism of the wedge block. Once an initial degree of extension
   is achieved with the ramping mechanism, torque is applied with the sliding
   mechanism.       Thus, the initial amount of force required by the user when
 5 turning the handle is substantially reduced by virtue of the ramping
   mechanism, thereby making manual operation viable.
            Once the desired height for the lower platform has been reached, the
   user simply ceases winding the handle, and folds it away into a lower recess
   defined in the front side of the lower platform. Stowing of the handle also
10 serves to lock the height of the platform, although effective locking of the
   platform height may occur at any position in the continuous height range
   once manual turning of the handle ceases.         In order to lower the lower
   platform, the user winds the lower handle in an anti-clockwise direction and
   the reverse process to the above takes place.
15          Referring now to Figures 18 to 23, the upper support structure 13
   comprises left and right upper support portions, 60 and 61 respectively,
   configured as a mirror image of each other in a midline transverse plane.
   Each portion comprises an upper front leg 62 and upper rear leg 63.
            Each upper leg, 62 and 63, comprises parallel upper front and rear
20 rods, 64 and 65 respectively, interconnected with spacers 28, and ending
   distally by pivotal connection to an upper foot bracket 66 which is mounted
   on to the rear portion of the lower platform's upper surface (see also Figs. 4
   and 7). An upper front strut 67 pivotally connects the upper front leg 62 to the
   upper platform 14, and an upper rear strut 68 pivotally connects the upper
25 rear leg 63 to the upper platform 14.
            Referring now to Figures 24 and 25, the upper adjustment mechanism
   comprises an upper rotating portion 69, upper running portion 70, and upper
   initial assist mechanism 55 (see Figure 12). The upper rotating portion 69
   comprises a retractable upper handle 72 connected with an elongate upper
30 screw member 73 which extends lengthwise beneath the upper platform.
           The running portion 70 of the upper adjustment mechanism comprises
   a pair of first upper running blocks 74 receiving the upper screw member 73

                                          - 20
   therethrough towards its right end, and a pair of second upper running blocks
   75 also receiving the upper screw member 39 therethrough, but towards its
   left end. The pair of first upper running blocks 74 is fixedly mounted on and
   moves horizontally with a first upper transverse plate 76. Similarly, the pair of
 5 second upper running blocks 75 is fixedly mounted               on and moves
   horizontally with a second upper transverse plate 77. A linear elongated slot
   88 with rounded ends (see Fig. 26) is defined in the outer wall of an inverted
   U-shaped end of the first upper transverse plate 76. In fact, there are four
   slots 88, one in each of the vertical front and rear walls of each of the first
10 and second upper transverse plates, 76 and 77 respectively.
           Attached to the front inverted U-shaped end of the first upper
   transverse plate 76 is a lateral or outer front first upper wheel bracket 78b,
   and attached to the rear inverted U-shaped end of the first upper transverse
   plate 76 is a lateral upper first wheel bracket 79b. Medial to each of the outer
15 upper first wheel brackets, 78b and 79b, are inner or medial upper first wheel
   brackets, 78a and 79a.      Similarly, attached to the front inverted U-shaped
   end of the second upper transverse plate 77 is a lateral front upper second
   wheel bracket 80b, and attached to the rear inverted U-shaped end of the
   second upper transverse plate 77 is a lateral rear upper second wheel
20 bracket 81 b. A pin 89 passing through the most medial, inner or upper spacer
   of each upper leg, and projecting outwardly through its respective slot,
   pivotally or rotatably connects each upper leg to its respective inner wheel
   bracket. Each of the front and rear, upper first and second wheel brackets
   has a series of three wheels 50 rotatably mounted thereon (see also Figure
25 12). The wheels 50 of the pair of front first upper wheel brackets 78 roll or
   run in a C-shaped front upper first channel 82 which is secured to the anterior
   underside of the upper platform, whilst the wheels 50 of the pair of rear upper
   first wheel brackets 79 roll or run in a C-shaped rear upper first channel 83
   which is secured to the posterior underside of the upper platform. Similarly,
30 the wheels 50 of the pair of front upper second wheel brackets 80 roll or run
   in a C-shaped front upper second channel 84 which is secured to the anterior
   underside of the upper platform, whilst the wheels 50 of the pair of rear upper

                                           -21
   second wheel brackets 81 roll or run in a C-shaped rear upper second
   channel 85 which is secured to the posterior underside of the lower platform.
            Referring again to Figure 12, there is shown the upper initial assist
   mechanism 71, which is substantially the same as the lower initial assist
 5 mechanism 55, aside from the reduced scale of it and its interacting
   components.      Therefore, the upper initial assist mechanism 71 and lower
   initial assist mechanism 55 are both illustrated by the same figures, with at
   least some shared features being identified using the same reference
   numerals.
10          Thus, the upper initial assist mechanism comprises a partially wedge
   shaped block 56 which is fixed to and projects down from the underside of
   the roof of the inverted U-shaped end of its corresponding upper transverse
   plate 76. The wedge block 56 of the upper initial assist mechanism has a
   ramped undersurface 57, angled at about forty five degrees, and which
15 continues into a flat undersurface 58. In fact, the upper initial assist
   mechanism comprises four upper wedge blocks 56, one for engagement with
   the second most medial spacer of each upper leg during the initial phase of
   opening.
            In order to manually raise the height of the upper platform 12
20 independently of the lower platform 12, a user first retracts the upper handle
   72.     The user then grasps the handle 72 and rotates it in a clockwise
   direction. The clockwise rotation of the handle 72 in turn causes clockwise
   rotation of the upper screw member 73, resulting in the first and second pairs
   of upper running blocks, 74 and 75 respectively, moving laterally out along
25 the upper screw member towards opposite sides of the upper platform. Being
   affixed to the first and second pairs of upper running blocks, the first and
   second upper transverse plates, 76 and 77 respectively, are moved laterally
   towards their respective sides of the upper platform 14. Concomitantly, the
   wheels 50 of the front and rear, first and second medial wheel brackets, 78a,
30 79a, 80a, 81a, roll laterally outwards along and within the front and rear, first
   and second, channels, 82-85.

                                          - 22
          As shown in Figures 13 to 17 and 26 to 31, lateral movement of the
   transverse plates also results in concomitant lateral movement of respective
   wedge blocks 56.        As each wedge blocks move laterally, its ramped
   undersurface 57 runs over the second most medial spacer 28 of the
 5 corresponding upper leg, thereby causing the second spacer to effectively
   run down the ramp during the first fifteen degrees or so of leg extension. As
   this occurs, the leg is forced to swing out, rotating about the leg's pivotal
   connection to its respective medial wheel bracket. Initially, whilst the ramp
   swings the upper leg out, the medial wheel bracket remains stationary until
10 the medial end of the slot 88 abuts against the projecting member or pin 89
   to which it is attached, which then pushes it laterally along in its channel. As
   the medial bracket is pushed laterally, the medial end of the lower leg, which
   is pivotally connected to the medial wheel bracket, also moves laterally. As
   the lower end of the upper leg remains fixed by virtue of its stationary foot
is bracket, the upper end of the leg is forced to pivot and rise upwards, thereby
   raising the height of the upper platform. Extension of each upper leg is also
   controlled by its respective pivotally attached strut.
          Thus, initial pivoting of the upper leg into extension is facilitated by the
   ramping mechanism of the wedge block. Once an initial degree of extension
20 is achieved with the ramping mechanism, torque is applied with the sliding
   mechanism.      Thus, as for the lower platform, the initial amount of force
   required by the user to raise the upper platform when turning the handle is
   substantially reduced by virtue of the ramping mechanism, thereby making
   manual operation viable.
25         Once the desired height for the upper platform has been reached, the
   user simply ceases winding the handle, and then retracts it into an upper
   recess 87 defined in the right side of the upper platform. Stowing of the
   handle also serves to lock the height of the platform, although effective
   locking of the platform height may occur at any position in the continuous
30 height range once manual turning of the handle ceases. In order to lower the
   upper platform, the user winds the upper handle in an anti-clockwise direction
   and the reverse process to the above takes place.

                                            - 23
           Referring now to Figures 32 to 34, there is shown a second version of
   an apparatus having a height adjustable platform in the form of a desk
   mountable workstation, generally designated 90. Like the first version 10, the
   second version 32 is continuously movable or adjustable between a fully
 5 closed or flat configuration (as shown in Figure 34), an intermediate or part
   open configuration (not shown for this version), and a fully open or extended
   configuration (as shown in Figures 32 and 33). The second version of the
   desk mountable workstation 90 is similar in many respects to the first version
   10. Thus, features of the second version 90 alike or in common with the first
10 version 10 are labelled with the same reference numerals.           However, the
   second version 90 differs from the first version 10, at least in the following
   aspects.
           Like the first version 10, the second version comprises an adjustable
   (lower) support structure 11 for mounting or seating on a surface such as a
is desk top, a (lower) platform 12 mounted on the support structure 11, and an
   (lower) adjustment mechanism 15 for continuous adjustment of the support
   structure 11 and thereby the height of the platform 12 with respect to the
   desk top. However, unlike the first version 10, the second version does not
   comprise an adjustable upper support structure mounted atop the (lower)
20 platform, an upper platform, nor an upper adjustment mechanism. That is,
   the monitor platform has been omitted from the second version.
           The (lower) support structure 11 differs in the second version from the
   first version in that its front and rear legs, 91 and 92 respectively, comprise a
   single cylindrical beam         rather than two parallel front and      rear rods
25 interconnected with spacers. Further, toward each side of the second version
   90, the front and rear legs, 91 and 92 respectively, are pivotally connected to
   the platform 12 by a single C-shaped strut member 93, rather than the
   separate front and rear struts described for the first version 10. Whilst each of
   the legs 91, 92 is rotatably or pivotally connected at its lower or outer end to
30 a stationary foot member or bracket 29, the transverse base rod 21 present
   in the first version is omitted from the second version.

                                           -24
           As per the first version 10, the adjustment mechanism 15 of the
   second version 90 comprises a rotating portion 30, a running portion 31, and
   an initial assist mechanism 55 (see Figures 33 and 34). However, unlike the
   manual adjustment mechanism 15 of the first version, the second version
 5 comprises an automatic adjustment mechanism 15. Thus, rather than
   comprising a foldable handle, the rotating portion 30 of the second version
   comprises automatic torque producing means in the form of an electric motor
   94 which is rotatably connected at an end of a single lengthwise screw
   member 95. Further, the second version comprises a computer 101 having a
10 user interface 95 (see Figs. 32 and 35) which will be described in more detail
   below.
           The running portion 30 of the second version 90 differs from the first
   version in that, rather than comprising wheel brackets which roll in C-shaped
   channels, it comprises sleeve brackets or members 96 which at least partially
is enclose and run or slide along respective cylindrical guide rails 97 (see
   Figures 33 and 34).
           Referring now to Figure 35, an external view of the user interface 95 of
   the computer 101 is shown. It comprises a three digit dot matrix display 97,
   user input means in the form of a down button 98 and an up button 99, each
20 being used for platform height adjustment and display input, and a 'stand'
   button 100 used to toggle between sitting and standing saved height pre
   sets, or used as an 'enter' or 'select' button within menus.
           Figure 36 is a schematic diagram of non-limiting example hardware
   componentry of and/or in connection with the computer 101.        The example
25 implementation shown includes a general purpose programmable processor
   102, such as the Intel@ family of microprocessors.       The processor 102 is
   adapted to execute coded instructions 105 present in a main memory such
   as random access memory (RAM) 103, for example dynamic random access
   memory (DRAM), and/or read only memory (ROM) 104, for example flash
30 memory. To receive input signals from the down, up and stand buttons, 98,
   99 and 100 respective, the example includes an external bus interface 106.
   The external bus interface 106 may comprise one or more USB ports for

                                         -25
   connection of peripherals. The example implementation also includes a
   network interface 107, e.g. a wireless LAN interface, to enable the processor
   102 to interact with a remote server 129. An internal power supply 108, such
   as a battery, may be provided, or as in this case, the power supply 108 may
 5 be external, such as may be provided from a mains power outlet. Hardware
   components, such as the processor and memories, are communicably linked
   via a bus 109.      The processor 102 may execute, among other things,
   machine accessible instructions 105 causing operation of the electric motor
   in response to user input via the input buttons, 98, 99 & 100.
10        In a suitable form, the network interface 107 allows the workstation 90
   to communicate with and/or be controlled by the remote server 129 or an
   external computing device 129 such as a smart phone, smart watch, desktop
   computer, laptop computer, or remote control.         Thus, components of the
   hardware such as the memory 103 & 104, processor 102, display 97 and
15 user input means 98, 99 & 100 such as buttons, a mouse, or keyboard, may
   be physically located in or connected with one or more external computing
   devices 129 instead of or as well as in or with the workstation computer 101.
   The memory of the external computing device may comprise an application
   or program with coded instructions 105 for execution by the external
20 computing device's processor, which processor may direct the workstation
   computer 101 to perform various functions such as raising or lowering the
   height of the platform. Thus, a user may control the height of the platform or
   various menu functions using their mobile phone or a laptop computer, for
   instance.
25        Figures 37 & 38 together illustrate a flowchart representative of an
   example process that may be executed by the processor 102.                In the
   example provided, the flowchart may be embodied in coded instructions 105
   stored in RAM 103, although it is also envisaged that in other forms the
   instructions may, for example, be stored in a tangible medium such as flash
30 memory. In other forms, various combinations of firmware, software and/or
   hardware may be used to implement the flow chart, as would be understood
   by a person skilled in the art. Further, it is envisaged that in other forms the

                                          - 26
   order of execution of the blocks may be changed, and the blocks described in
   Figure 37 may be changed, divided, eliminated, combined, etc. Each of the
   blocks in Figure 37 represents or comprises a step, module, function and/or
   application involved in the example process.
 5           In the example shown, the process of Figure 37 begins at block 110
   which represents a start-up step, module, function and/or application. This
   step involves plugging the computer 101 into the power source 108 so that
   the processor 102 automatically displays the default height of the platform 12
   above the desk on the display 97, that being zero centimetres (displayed as
10 - -') in this instance. This represents the home screen.
             At block 111, a user may enter the main menu by depressing both
   down and up buttons, 98 and 99 respectively, for two seconds. This results in
   a first sub menu item "TIM" (timer) being displayed. At block 112, the user
   may scroll through the main menu by pressing up and/or down buttons to
is vertically scroll through the submenu items "TIM" (timer), "UNI" (units) and
   "EXT" (exit) displayed separately on the display screen 97. At block 113, the
   user may select a displayed sub menu items by a single press of the
   stand/enter button 100. At block 114, the user may exit the main menu by
   scrolling to the submenu item "EXT" (exit) on the display and pressing the
20 stand/enter button once.
             At block 115, where the user has entered the "TIM" (timer) submenu in
   step 113, the user may adjust the length of time, in minutes, for which the
   platform is to remain stationary before the timer runs out and triggers a
   display, as discussed further below. In this embodiment, the timer operates
25 whilst the platform is stationary at any height, although it is envisaged that in
   other embodiments the timer may be operable only at its lowest position zero
   centimetres above the platform, that being at the working sitting height for the
   user. Up and down buttons are used to adjust to the desired timer duration,
   with the display blinking time in minutes.        In the particular embodiment
30 shown, the timer is set to "000" (off) by default, and the maximum time which
   may be set is one hundred minutes. At block 116, the user sets / saves the
   desired time by depressing the stand/enter button for 1.5 seconds. With the

                                        - 27
   timer set, the words "TIMER SET" horizontally scroll across before exiting the
   timer configuration to the home screen.
           At block 117, where the user has entered the "UNI" (units) submenu in
   step 113, the user may adjust the units used for quantifying the height of the
 5 platform above the desk by pressing the up or down button to scroll through
   options "CM" (centimetres) and "IN" (inches) which blink on the display. At
   block 118, the user sets / saves the desired units by depressing the
   stand/enter button for one and a half seconds. With the units set, the words
   "UNIT SET" scroll horizontally across the display screen before the unit
10 configuration is exited to the home screen.
           At block 119, on the home screen, the user adjusts the desired
   platform height by pressing the up or down buttons to increase or decrease
   the quantity displayed. The display blinks as the height numbers are scrolled
   through and the user can hold the buttons down for faster scrolling. In this
15 embodiment, the display jumps from zero to twenty (as a platform height of
   less than twenty centimetres is not allowed) and then displays one centimetre
   increments (or 0.5 inch increments) from twenty to forty four centimetres. At
   block 120, the user may set the desired height by depressing the stand/enter
   button for one and a half seconds, at which time the display stops blinking. At
20 block 121, after a one second delay, the platform rises to the set height
   above the desk. The display flashes an upwardly directed arrow for the first
   twenty centimetres of travel. Between and including heights of twenty and
   forty four centimetres, corresponding height numbers scroll vertically up on
   the display during travel. Once the set height is reached, the corresponding
25 height number remains displayed. When the platform is in motion, pressing
   of any button cancels travel. At block 122, once the desired height has been
   reached, it can be saved in the memory by holding the stand / enter button
   for one and a half seconds. The words 'PRESET SAVED' then horizontally
   scroll across the display to confirm pre-set height save.
30         In another version, the user can enter their own height, or length of
   some other feature of their body such as leg length, and stored in memory is
   a database containing suitable platform heights which correspond to the

                                         - 28
   user's height or body part length. Using this information, the workstation is
   able to adjust to a platform height appropriate to the user's height or body
   part length.
          At block 123, when the desk is raised (to any available position), the
 5 user may quickly lower the platform back to its lowest position for sitting at
   their desk by pressing the stand / enter button. The display flashes a down
   arrow for one second, before travel begins and the platform lowers to its base
   position with corresponding height numbers scrolling vertically down on the
   display during travel, and a downward arrow is displayed again for the last
10 twenty centimetres of lowering. Once the lowest position is reached, the
   displays shows a platform height of zero centimetres as '- - -'. At block 124,
   once the desk becomes stationary at the base position, the timer starts
   automatically. Any movement of the desk resets the timer. At block 125,
   elapse of the timer triggers pulsing of a full middle segment display. Pressing
15 any button stops the middle segment display and resets the timer loop.
          At block 126, when the desk is lowered to its lowest position, the
   platform may be quickly raised to the pre-set height suitable for working at
   whilst the user is standing (or supported on some form of high stool), or if
   there is no pre-set height, to a default standing height (twenty centimetres in
20 this instance), by a single press of the stand / enter button. Once pressed,
   the display blinks the saved pre-set height or default height for 1.5 seconds,
   and then the platform begins to travel as per block 121.
          At block 127, if there is no processor activity for sixty seconds, the
   processor switches off the display and enters sleep mode. Pressing of any
25 button will awaken the display.
          At block 128, if height adjustment is obstructed or there is a weight
   overload, pinch current overload protection is triggered, with 'ERR' (error)
   displayed and piezo buzz warning activated.
          While this invention has been described in connection with specific
30 embodiments thereof, it will be understood that it is capable of further
   modification(s).  The present invention is intended to cover any variations,
   uses or adaptations of the invention following in general, the principles of the

                                         - 29
   invention and including such departures from the present disclosure as come
   within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention
   pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set
   forth.
 5         As the present invention may be embodied in several forms without
   departing from the spirit of the essential characteristics of the invention, it
   should be understood that the above described embodiments are not to limit
   the present invention unless otherwise specified, but rather should be
   construed broadly within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in
10 the broad consistory statements.         Various modifications and equivalent
   arrangements are intended to be included within the spirit and scope of the
   invention and     consistory statements     herein.  Therefore,   the specific
   embodiments are to be understood to be illustrative of the many ways in
   which the principles of the present invention may be practiced.
is         The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular
   example embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.            As used
   herein, the singular forms "a", "an" and "the" may be intended to include the
   plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.       The
   terms "comprise", "comprises," "comprising," "including," and "having," or
20 variations thereof are inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated
   features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do
   not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers,
   steps, operations, elements, components, and/or groups thereof.
           The method steps, processes, and operations described herein are
25 not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the
   particular order discussed or illustrated, unless specifically identified as an
   order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative
   steps may be employed. Reference to positional descriptions, such as lower
   and upper, are to be taken in context of the embodiments depicted in the
30 figures, and are not to be taken as limiting the invention to the literal
   interpretation of the term but rather as would be understood by the skilled
   addressee.

                                          - 30
          Although the terms first, second, third, etc. may be used herein to
   describe various elements, components, regions, layers and/or sections,
   these elements, components, regions, layers and/or sections should not be
   limited by these terms. These terms may be only used to distinguish one
 5 element, component, region, layer or section from another region, layer or
   section. Terms such as "first," "second," and other numerical terms when
   used herein do not imply a sequence or order unless clearly indicated by the
   context. Thus, a first element, component, region, layer or section discussed
   below could be termed a second element, component, region, layer or
10 section without departing from the teachings of the example embodiments.
           Spatially relative terms, such as "inner," "outer," "beneath", "below",
   "lower", "above", "upper" and the like, may be used herein for ease of
   description to describe one element or feature's relationship to another
   element(s) or feature(s) as illustrated in the figures. Spatially relative terms
15 may be intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or
   operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example, if
   the device in the figures is turned over, elements described as "below" or
   "beneath" other elements or features would then be oriented "above" the
   other elements or features. Thus, the example term "below" can encompass
20 both an orientation of above and below.         The device may be otherwise
   oriented (rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations) and the spatially relative
   descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

                                          - 31
   CLAIMS
   1. An adjustable apparatus comprising:
           a platform;
 5         an adjustable support structure for standing or mounting on a surface
   and on which the platform is disposed, the support structure comprising,
                   a frame, and
                   at least one leg having first and second ends; and
           an adjustment mechanism for continuous adjustment of the support
10 structure so as to alter the height of the platform above the surface between
   a lowered configuration in which the at least one leg is folded alongside the
   platform and a raised configuration in which the at least one leg is opened
   away from the platform, wherein adjustment of the support structure involves
   concomitant pivoting of the at least one leg at its first end, and pivoting and
15 displacement of the at least one leg at its second end, the adjustment
   mechanism comprising,
                   a rotating portion adapted to be rotated to alter the height of the
   platform, wherein effective locking of the platform height occurs at any
   position in the continuous height range once rotation of the rotating portion
20 ceases,
                   a running portion adapted for movement on rotation of the
   rotating portion, the running portion comprising at least one running member
   adapted to run along the frame, the second end of the at least one leg being
   pivotally connected with the at least one running member, and
25                 at least one swing member for causing initial outward pivoting
   of the leg about its connection with the running member, the at least one
   swing member comprising a ramped portion along which a portion of the at
   least one leg travels during initial elevation of the platform from the lowered
   position,
30 wherein elevation of the platform from the lowered position is initiated by the
   at least one swing member urging the at least one leg to swing out by
   rotation about its connection with the at least one running member, following

                                          - 32
   which, movement of the at least one running member along the frame causes
   further rotation about, and also displacement of, the at least one leg's
   connection with the at least one running member, resulting in further opening
   of the at least one leg and raising of the platform.
 5
   2. The adjustable apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the ramped
   portion comprises a ramped undersurface angled at around forty five
   degrees.
10 3. The adjustable apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein a
   portion of the at least one leg runs along the ramped portion during the first
   fifteen degrees or so of leg opening.
   4. The adjustable apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims,
15 wherein the at least one swing member comprises a partially wedge shaped
   block.
   5. The adjustable apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims,
   comprising a further running member configured to move outwardly along the
20 frame while the running member remains stationary during initial leg opening
   when raising the platform from the lowered position, following which, the
   running member moves outwardly along the frame concomitantly with the
   further running member until leg opening is complete.
25 6. The adjustable apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the running portion comprises:
           a transverse member configured to move during rotation of the
   rotatable portion, the swing member being attached to and adapted to move
   concomitantly with the transverse member,
30         a pair of further running members attached about opposite ends of the
   transverse member and adapted to move concomitantly therewith, and

                                            -33
            a pair of running members disposed about opposite ends of the
   transverse member, the pair of running members remaining stationary during
   initial outward swing of the at least one leg, before moving concomitantly with
   the transverse member.
 5
   7. The adjustable apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein during adjustment of the support structure, there is no displacement
   of the at least one leg at its first end, and the displacement of the at least one
   leg at its second end occurring after initial swing occurs in a substantially
10 horizontal direction.
   8. The adjustable apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein adjustment of the support structure alters the height of the platform
   without any substantial horizontal displacement of the platform.
15
   9. The adjustable apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the support structure comprises at least one stationary base or foot
   for standing or mounting on the surface, the first end of the at least one leg
   being rotatably connected to the at least one base or foot.
20
   10. The adjustable apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the support structure comprises at least one strut having first and
   second ends, the first end of the at least one strut being pivotally connected
   to the at least one leg and the second end of the at least one strut being
25 rotatably connected with the platform.
   11. The adjustable apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the workstation comprises pairs of opposed swing members, running
   members, and legs.
30

                                         - 34
   12. The adjustable apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the rotating portion comprises a screw mechanism for continuous
   adjustment of the support structure.
 5 13. The adjustable apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims
   comprising an automatic adjustment mechanism for automatically adjusting
   the height of the platform above the surface.
   14. The adjustable apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the height of the
10 platform is automatically adjustable to a predetermined height.
   15. The adjustable apparatus according to claim 14 comprising a timer
   adapted to run whilst the platform height remains stationary, and signal to a
   user when a predetermined time period expires.
15
   16. The adjustable apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the timer is
   adapted to automatically reset on height adjustment of the platform.
   17. The adjustable apparatus according to any one of claims 13 to 16
20 comprising a motor, wherein in operation, the motor creates a rotational
   torque for rotating the rotating portion, thereby raising or lowering the
   platform.
   18. The adjustable apparatus according to any one of claims 13 to 17
25 comprising user input means in the form of one or more touch or push
   buttons.
   19. The adjustable apparatus according to any one of claims 13 to 18
   comprising a display for displaying numerals representing the height of the
30 platform with respect to the surface or floor.

                                           - 35
   20. A method of operating an adjustable apparatus according to any one of
   claims 13 to 19, the method comprising:
           receiving input from a user relating to a height of the platform;
           saving the inputted height into a memory of or linked with the
 5 apparatus;
           receiving input from a user to adjust the platform height to the saved
   height;
           retrieving the saved height from the memory of or linked with the
   apparatus; and
10         automatically adjusting the height of the platform to the saved height.
   21. The method according to claim 20, comprising:
           receiving input from the user relating to the duration of a timer of the
   apparatus;
15         running the timer whilst the platform is stationary; and
          triggering a signal to the user, or automatically adjusting the height of
   the platform, on expiration of the timer.
   22. An adjustable support structure for standing or mounting on a surface,
20 and adapted for mounting of a platform thereon, the support structure
   comprising,
           a frame;
           at least one leg having first and second ends; and
           an adjustment mechanism for continuous adjustment of the support
25 structure so as to alter the height of the platform, when disposed on the
   support structure, above the surface between a lowered configuration in
   which the at least one leg is folded alongside the platform and a raised
   configuration in which the at least one leg is opened away from the platform,
   wherein adjustment of the support structure involves concomitant pivoting of
30 the at least one leg at its first end, and pivoting and displacement of the at
   least one leg at its second end, the adjustment mechanism comprising,

                                          - 36
                  a rotating portion adapted to be rotated to alter the height of the
   platform, wherein effective locking of the platform height occurs at any
   position in the continuous height range once rotation of the rotating portion
   ceases,
 5                a running portion adapted for movement on rotation of the
   rotating portion, the running portion comprising at least one running member
   adapted to run along the frame, the second end of the at least one leg being
   pivotally connected with the at least one running member, and
                  at least one swing member for causing initial outward pivoting
10 of the leg about its connection with the running member, the at least one
   swing member comprising a ramped portion along which a portion of the at
   least one leg travels during initial elevation of the platform from the lowered
   position,
   wherein elevation of the platform from the lowered position is initiated by the
is at least one swing member urging the at least one leg to swing out by
   rotation about its connection with the at least one running member, following
   which, movement of the at least one running member along the frame causes
   further rotation about, and also displacement of, the at least one leg's
   connection with the at least one running member, resulting in further opening
20 of the at least one leg and raising of the platform.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
    <removed-apn> <removed-date>
/19

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
      <removed-apn> <removed-date>
   29
29
                  29
      29

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
