                                               20.
ABSTRACT
An apparatus assisting in dental procedure, comprising: a body adapted to be received with
an oral cavity; an anchoring means for securing the body within the oral cavity such that it at
least partially surrounds one or more teeth; a dental device located within the body and
adapted to move in a plurality of planes relative to the one or more teeth; and a controller for
controlling the dental device to move into a suitable position relative to the one or more teeth
and once located in position carry out work on or about the one or more teeth.

        1/7
            10
   12
               0
   30                   13
                     31
                    14
                 16
30
             1
      Fgure

                                                 1.
                                    DENTAL APPARATUS
Field of invention
         The present invention relates to an apparatus assisting in dental procedures.
Background of invention
         Since the inception of modern dentistry during the late nineteenth century, dental
diagnosis and treatment has relied largely on the same techniques. For example, dentists have
been using a handpiece encasing a rotary engine with an attached cutting bur to manually
prepare a cavity within a tooth, or reduce it circumferentially to accommodate for a filling
material, crown or a mix of both.
         The same tenet applies to the diagnosis of tooth decay (dental caries), which is one of
the most ubiquitous diseases in human populations. The importance of reaching a definite
diagnosis cannot be overemphasized, as it will govern the choice of a consequent treatment
modality, be it prevention, monitoring, operation (drilling) or extraction. Basically, diagnosis
depends on the practitioner's clinical acuity, as carious lesions can prove to be elusive to assess
particularly when asymptomatic, located in the morphologically complex pits and fissures, or
when caries has not yet progressed to induce visible cavitation. Hidden caries, which advance
deep under an otherwise apparently sound surface, is yet another challenging situation for the
diagnostician.
         Therefore, when faced by such circumstances, a dentist may resort to diagnostic aids
such as radiographs, optical magnifiers, staining dyes, thermal tests, fluorescence or
transillumination. However, their efficiency and effectiveness in dental settings are often
compromised by technique sensitivity (radiographic reproducibility for example), increased
cost, fear of radiation exposure, proper chronological archiving and retrieval of results, as well
as the time and effort of using different standalone devices and systems          which may also
inconvenience the patient and staff.
         In addition, the accessibility to a particular tooth may be a determining factor in
diagnosis, planning and performing dental treatment. Plausibly, the more posterior a tooth is in
the mouth, the less amenable it is for instrumentation and handling. Apart from accessibility,
careful surgical precision must be maintained at all times throughout the drilling procedure, as
the clinician is not only working within confined and miniscule structures, but he also ought to
strictly avoid inadvertent damage to sound tissues around and within the tooth such as the
delicate and centrally located pulp.

                                                2.
        Consequently, the outcome of dental care remains technique, equipment and time
sensitive, and thus quite vulnerable to human error, misjudgement and indexterity. This serves
to limit the number of patients or teeth a practitioner can attend to, and accounts for steadily
rising costs. This relative unimproved productivity of the healthcare professions (as compared
to other fields that became more affordable and productive with industrial automation) has been
described as the "Baumol Effect".
        It would be advantageous if there was a way to improve and streamline the diagnosis
process, enhance visibility and access, minimise human error, reduce manual effort and fatigue,
and/or perform rapid, precise and ideal tooth preparation.
Summary of invention
        In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention there is provided an
apparatus assisting in dental procedure, comprising: a body adapted to be received with an
oral cavity; an anchoring means for securing the body within the oral cavity such that it at
least partially surrounds one or more teeth; a dental device located within the body and
adapted to move in a plurality of planes relative to the one or more teeth; and a controller for
controlling the dental device to move into a suitable position relative to the one or more teeth
and once located in position carry out work on or about the one or more teeth.
        In an embodiment the body is adapted to be wholly received within the oral cavity.
        In an embodiment the work performed by the dental device includes at least one pre
programed procedure.
        In an embodiment the anchoring means is a clamp that is adapted to secure to the one
or more teeth and/or a tooth or teeth adjacent to the one or more teeth.
        In an embodiment the clamp comprises one or more clamp peaks and one or more
clamp bows and wherein the body is coupled to the bow(s).
        In an embodiment the body comprises one or more cameras operable to take an image
of the work site and wherein the controller is configured to process the resultant image data
for use in determining at least one of:
a.      the position to locate the dental device for performing the work;

                                                 3.
b.       appropriate selection of the preprogramed procedure;
c.       monitor in real time the operations performed by the apparatus; and
d.       diagnose anomalies of the tooth structures by means of direct imagery,
transillumination and/or fluorescence.
         In an embodiment the dental device comprises one or more lights for illuminating the
oral cavity.
         In an embodiment the one or more lights are transillumination lights adapted to
transilluminate the one or more teeth.
         In an embodiment the controller comprises a processing unit programmed to instruct
the work device to perform work.
         In an embodiment the apparatus further comprises a conduit for supplying or
expelling contents to the apparatus.
         In an embodiment the contents are at least one of fluids, gases or solids.
         In an embodiment the dental device is at least one of a mechanical bur, forceps, root
elevators, scalpel, a mirror, a laser, a camera, an excavator, a dental burnisher, a dental
plugger, a scaler, local anaesthetic vehicle, a curette or other dental instrument.
         In an embodiment movement of the dental device in the at least three planes is caused
by the dental device moving along one or more sets of rails.
         In an embodiment at least one of the one or more sets of rails are adapted to move
under the control of an actuator.
         In an embodiment the apparatus further comprises a rotary motor within the body that
can be either air, water, steam or electrically powered.
         In accordance with a second aspect there is provided a method assisting in dental
procedure, comprising utilising the dental apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims for performing the dental procedure.
         In accordance with a third aspect there is provided a computer readable medium
storing computer program code which, when executed by a computer processor, is operable
to control the controller of claim 1 to operate the dental work device.

                                                4.
Brief description of drawings
         Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example
only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
         Figure. 1 is a schematic of an apparatus located within a patient's mouth, in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
         Figure 2a is a top view of the apparatus of Figure 1, anchored to a single tooth;
         Figure 2b is a sectional view through C-C shown in Figure 2a;
         Figure 2c is an isometric view of the apparatus;
         Figure 2d is a section view through A-A shown in Figure 2e;
         Figure 2e is a side view of the apparatus;
         Figure 2f is a further isometric view of the apparatus;
         Figure 3 is an isometric view of a clamp used for anchoring the apparatus, in
accordance with an embodiment;
         Figure 4a is an internal view of the body of the Figure 1 apparatus;
         Figure 4b is a close up view of feature A shown in Figure 4a;
         Figure 4c is a close up view of feature B shown in Figure 4a;
         Figure 5a is a schematic of a dental work device of the apparatus, in accordance with
an embodiment; and
         Figure 5b is a schematic of a dental work device in accordance with an alternative
embodiment;
         Figure 6 is a schematic of the apparatus attached to an extra oral base for carving a
filling;
         Figure 7 is an internal view of the body of an apparatus according to an alternative
embodiment; and
         Figures 8a and 8b are schematics of a work device in accordance with respective
alternative embodiments of the invention.

                                                  5.
Detailed description
         Embodiments of the invention described herein relate to an apparatus for assisting in
dental procedures. With reference to Figures 1 to 5, the apparatus 10 comprises a body 12
adapted to be received within an oral cavity 13 of a patient. The body 12 is secured within the
oral cavity 13 via an anchoring means 14, such that the body 12 at least partially surrounds
one or more teeth 16. A dental work device 18 (see particularly Figures 2 and 5) is movable
within the body 12 and is adapted to move in a plurality of planes relative to the one or more
teeth 16. A controller 20 is operable to cause the dental work device 18 to move into a
desired position and thereafter actuate the dental work device 18 for carrying out work on or
about the one or more teeth 16. The work performed by the apparatus 10 includes, but is not
limited to, at least one of dental drilling, suction, imaging and illumination.
Configurationof the Apparatus
         In more detail, and with particular reference to the elevation and section views
depicted in Figure 2, the body 12 of the apparatus 10 is generally rectangular in shape with
chamfered edges for minimising patient discomfort. The body 12 may be formed from any
suitable material, including plastic, metal, a suitable composite material or the like. The
dental work device 18 is housed within the body 12 and includes an attachment 17 for use in
carrying out the work . As previously stated, the apparatus 10 (and more particularly the
body 12) is anchored within the oral cavity 13 via an anchoring means 14. According to the
illustrated embodiment, the anchoring means 14 takes the form of a clamp 14 that secures to
the crown of a single tooth 16. Figure 3 shows the clamp 14 in isolation. With reference to
both Figures 3 and 4, the clamp 14 comprises a pair of bows 14a, 14b that detachably couple
respectively to ends 12a, 12b of the body 12. The bows 14a, 14b extend to opposing clamp
beaks 14c that firmly secure to the crown of a tooth adjacent to the gingiva (i.e. in the same
manner as existing dental clamps used by dentists to attach the rubber dam). According to the
illustrated embodiment, the bows 14a, 14b attach to the body via moveable arms that firmly
hook under the bows 14a, 14b and thereafter can be locked in place to prevent the body from
detaching from the clamp 14. It will be understood that any suitable detaching means could
be used for securing the clamp to the body 12 (.e.g. frictional, magnetic or latch fit),
depending on the desired implementation. For example, the bows 14a, 14b may include
openings for receiving screws that screw into the body for securing the clamp thereto. In yet
another alternative embodiment, the clamp 14 may be fixedly secured to the body, e.g. via an

                                                 6.
adhesive. In yet another alternative embodiment, the clamps may be integrally formed with
the body 12 (e.g. set in place during forming of the body).
         As previously mentioned, the apparatus 10 is adapted to perform work within a work
site. According to the illustrated embodiment the work site comprises a tooth 16 (or teeth)
that the body 12 at least partially surrounds. The dental work device 18 is moveable in three
planes relative to the tooth 16, as depicted in Figure 2c, for moving into a desired position.
Furthermore, the dental work device 18 includes a rotator and pivot mechanism for allowing
the attachment 17 to both rotate and pivot (i.e. in an additional two planes) once the dental
work device 18 is located in a desired position.
         In more detail, and with additional reference to Figure 4a, there is shown a sectional
view of the internal housing of the body 12 for illustrating movement of the dental work
device 18 in the X and Y planes. As shown, a pair of rails 23a, 23b extend between side
walls 15a, 15b of the body 12. The dental work device 18 couples to the rails 23a, 23b for
sliding movement there along. According to the illustrated embodiment, the rails 23a, 23b
are closely received in openings 24a, 24b (i.e. having an internal profile that corresponds to
the sectional profile of the rails ensuring smooth sliding operation) that are disposed on
opposite sides of a body 12 of the work device 18. A further opening 26 extends through the
body 12 of the dental work device 18 for receiving a threaded lead screw 28 extending from
an actuator in the form of a stepper motor 30. The further opening 26 has a threaded internal
profile corresponding to the thread of the lead screw 28. Actuation of the stepper motor 30
(either in the forward or reverse direction) causes the dental work device 18 to move along
the rails 23a, 23b thereby facilitating precision open-loop positioning of the device 18 in the
X plane. Positioning along the Y plane is achieved by way of rails 32a, 32b which extend
between ends 12a, 12b of the body 12 and fixed thereto. The rails 32a, 32b pass through
openings 33 disposed in the rails 23a, 23b, as shown in the close-up view of Figure 4a. A
second actuator (also in the form of a stepper motor 36) controls a second lead screw 38
which passes through openings 35 disposed in rails 23a, 23b. An internal profile of the
openings 35 has a corresponding thread to the second lead screw 38, thereby facilitating
movement of the dental work device 18 in the Y plane as the stepper motor is actuated (again
either in forward or reverse). The close up view of Figure 4c shows this in more detail. It
will be understood that other configurations could be utilised for achieving the sliding
movement of the dental work device 18 in the X and Y planes, for example using tracks
embedded in an internal wall of the body 18 that receive and retain rollers disposed on the

                                                 7.
work device 18 and which may be powered to move along the tracks for suitably positioning
the work device. According to the illustrated embodiment, the dental work device 18 is
adapted to move up to 2cm in in the X and Y planes.
         Movement in the Z plane (i.e. for controlling the height of the dental work device
attachment 17 relative to the tooth 16) is achieved by way of a third actuator. With reference
to Figure 5a, there is shown a schematic of the dental work device 18 whereby the third
actuator takes the form of a pair of a stepper motors 40. The stepper motors 40 turn threaded
lead screws 44 which pass through corresponding vertically oriented openings 42 (which
have corresponding internal threaded profile to the screws 44) in a mid-section 42 of the
dental work device 18. Although not shown in Figure 5a, the mid-section 42 comprises the
longitudinally oriented openings 24a, 24b and 26 (i.e. that facilitate coupling to rails 23a, 23b
and lead screw 28). In this manner, the stepper motors 40 can be simultaneously actuated
(either in forward or reverse) for facilitating upward and downward movement in the Z plane.
It will be understood that in an alternative embodiment, only one stepper motor and lead
screw may be required for facilitating the movement in the Z plane. An alternative
embodiments for facilitating movement in the Z plane is shown in Figure 5b. According to
this embodiment, an actuator in the form of one or more micro air pumps are used to extend
and contract the length of the dental work device 18 so as to adjust the height of the
attachment 17 relative to the tooth 16. As shown in Figure 5b, a plurality of telescoping
cylinders 46, 48, 50 have internal chambers that are connected by way of a series of valves.
The cylinders 46, 48, 50 are caused to extend or retract relative to one another by applying
pressure or suction to the chambers by way of the air pump(s). Although not shown in Figure
5b, the upper most cylinder 46 comprises the longitudinally oriented openings 24a, 24b and
26 that facilitate coupling to rails 23a, 23b and lead screw 28. It will also be understood that
the rails 23a, 23b and 32a, 32b (and corresponding openings 33, 38) may be of any desired
cross sectional profile, depending on the desired implementation. Further, the rails 23a, 23b,
32a, 32b may be positioned at any desired height within the body 12, depending on the
desired implementation. According to the illustrated embodiment, the dental work device 18
is adapted to move up to 2cm in in Z plane.
         Still with reference to Figures 5a and 5b, the attachment 17 is in the form of a bur that
removably couples to the work device 18 by way of an actuator in the form of an air powered
turbine 35 (.e.g. by way of frictional, magnetic or latch fit). The attachment 17 couples to the
work device 18 by way of a rotator 37 (in this embodiment taking the form of a pneumatic

                                                 8.
rotary actuator 37 which rotates the attachment 17 between 0 and 360 degrees as indicated by
reference numeral D) and pivot mechanism 39 that in turn couples to the work device 18 by
way of a pair of arms 41. A further actuator (in this illustrated embodiment being in the form
of an air powered pneumatic motor 39) causes a pivot portion of the mechanism to pivot
relative to the arms 41 (i.e. for moving between 0 to 180 degrees as indicated by reference
numeral E). The rotator 37 and pivot mechanism 39 advantageously provide two additional
planes of movement for performing the necessary work. It will be understood that some or
all of the above described actuators/motors/engines for controlling movement in the X, Y and
Z planes (as well as for rotating and pivoting the work attachment 17) could be electrically
powered, air powered or electromagnetically powered, depending on the desired
implementation.
         Also shown in the figures is a conduit 30 that is connected to the body 12 and which,
in use, facilitates the delivery or removal of fluid to/from the work site and/or dental work
device 18. For example, the conduit 30 may deliver compressed air to the work site as
required for the procedure. The compressed air may also be directed to any one or more air
powered actuators utilised by the apparatus 10. The conduit 30 may additionally or
alternatively deliver water (e.g. pressurised water) to the work site. In addition, or as an
alternative, the conduit 30 may be used to suction air and/or water from the work site during
the procedure. As yet another additional or alternative use, the conduit 30 may carry
electrical and/or data cable for providing power and/or commands to any electrically powered
actuators and/or circuitry provided by the apparatus 10. The conduit 30 may also carry all of
the necessary control signals to/from the circuitry (e.g. image data captured from the
cameras).
         In a particular embodiment, the conduit 30 may be connected to a housing containing
an extra-oral air compressor (for delivering the compressed air), a water chamber for
supplying water, a suction pump and a receptacle used to store any substances received from
the work site via the conduit. The conduit 30 may comprise separate tubes for carrying the
various fluids and cables. In an alternate embodiment, the conduit 30 may be connected to
pre-existing air, water and electricity outlets that may be within structures such as such as
existing conventional dental chairs (dental units).
         In an embodiment, one or more lights are disposed on the body 12 to illuminate the
teeth 16 and/or surrounding oral cavity 13. In a particular embodiment an LED light is

                                                9.
located at each internal comer of the body 12 (i.e. directed toward the work site). In addition,
the apparatus 10 may be provided with a bore light or other such light for transillumination
(e.g. disposed on an inner wall of the body). The apparatus 10 additionally comprises a
camera 31 (again which may be disposed on an inner wall of the body 12 facing the work
site) for capturing image data for the work site and surrounding area.
         As shown in Figure 1, the apparatus 10 is connected to a controller 20 for electrically
controlling actuation of the various apparatus actuators and imaging devices to perform the
desired dental procedure. For example, with regards to the air powered actuators, the
controller is operable to control the air supply unit to deliver the necessary amount of
air/suction for achieving the necessary movement. For electrical actuators, the controller 20
may directly deliver the necessary power or signal thereto via an electrical cable disposed in
the conduit 30. Alternatively, the controller 20 may be configured to wirelessly communicate
with the actuators, e.g. via Bluetooth, WiFi or the like. In a particular form, the controller 20
may comprise a microcontroller or other suitable processing system including a memory
storing program code for automatically controlling the actuators (i.e. based on predefined
instructions). Additionally, or alternatively, the controller 20 may include a user interface
that allows an operator to manually control the actuators. This may be the case for dental
procedures, such as drilling, where the operator may wish to manually control the angle and
depth for drilling. The controller 20 may be configured to cause a display device to display
relevant real time procedural information, including image data captured from the camera(s),
as well as any other relevant information (including warnings, actuator feedback data, etc.).
Thus, in one example, the controller 20 may include a wireless receiver configured to receive
a remote control signal, for controlling the apparatus 10. In an alternative embodiment to that
shown in the figures, the controller 20 may be embedded in or disposed on the body of
apparatus 10 and can be programmed to wirelessly communicate with a remote control
device. In yet another embodiment, the controller may be configured to connect to a remote
network, such as the Internet, allowing the apparatus to be controlled remotely, for example
as a means of urgent dental intervention, where dentists are not readily accessible such as in
extremely remote areas (e.g. outer space) or those suffering conflicts or natural disasters. The
apparatus 10 might be attended in site by a dental assistant or nurse or a person trained for
this purpose, and operated remotely by a dentist from abroad.
         In an alternative embodiment to that described above, one or more of the various
actuators for controlling movement of the work device 18 may be located remotely of the

                                                10.
apparatus 10. Such a configuration is shown in Figure 7. According to this embodiment, the
threaded lead screws 28 and 38 (for controlling movement of the device 18 in the X and Y
planes) are coupled to externally located actuators 30a, 36a (e.g. stepper motors) via
respective rotating flexible cables 60, 62. More specifically, the cables 60, 62 are connected
to drive shafts of the motors 30a, 36a which control forward or reverse rotation of the
cables 60, 62 which in turn causes the respective lead screws 28, 38. Additional cables 64,
66 are connected between the rotator 37 and pivot mechanism 39 (not shown in Figure 7) and
respective remotely located actuators for controlling operation thereof. Still further, the bur
drill 17 (or other work device attachment) may be connected to a rotatable cable (not shown)
that is externally driven. As already stated, when the actuators are air-powered they may be
remotely located to the work device 18 and connected to the relevant work device
components (e.g. bur drill 17, rotator 37, etc.) by way of one or more conduits 18 that are
capable of carrying compressed air for driving those components.
         The cables 60, 62, 64, 66 may, for example, take the form of speedometer style cables
that are rotatable within a protective tube or casing. The flexible cables may be formed of
any suitable material, such as steel wire or plastic. In an alternative embodiment, rather than
using a flexible material, the cables may be formed of rigid shafts portions that are connected
together via suitable pivotable linkages.
         It will be understood that one or more of the cables 60, 62, 64, 66 may be grouped
together in a single outer casing, as shown in Figure 7. It will also be understood that the
cables 60, 62, 64, 66 may be removably or fixedly coupled to their respective components at
one or both ends using any suitable coupling. For example, a fixed coupling for connecting
the cable 62 to the lead screw 38 may take the form of a worm and pinion style coupling, where
the cable 62 terminates in a pinion gear that connects to a worm screw at the end of the lead
screw 38 in order to transfer rotational movement.
Examples of Work Performed by Apparatus:
         Imaging
         In a particular embodiment, the camera 31 is able to capture image data
(corresponding to images of the work site or oral cavity) that can be processed by the
controller 20, e.g. for creating a three-dimensional model of the work site. The model can,
for example, be referenced by the programs stored in the controller memory for use in

                                                11.
determining how to implement a particular dental procedure. The model can also be stored
for future evaluation (e.g. to monitor a particular condition, treatment, etc.). Alternatively, or
additionally, the controller 20 may be programmed to accept a scanned model of the work
place generated by a standalone intra-oral scanner.
         The controller 20 may further be configured to display the image data on a display
device, thereby allowing a practitioner to examine the tooth or teeth within the work site (i.e.
obviating the need for an additional standalone intra oral camera or magnifier). For example,
the image data may allow a practitioner to clearly identify the location, type and size of an
anomaly and as a result suitably prepare for treatment. Additionally, after completion of
cavity preparation, a three-dimensional cavity filler can be produced based on the information
obtained from the one or more cameras.
         The camera(s) 31 may be fitted with a zoom functionality to allow a close and
detailed inspection of the work site, which can aid in diagnosing dental ailments. In some
instances, a microscopic lens can be added to the camera. Further, the information captured
by the one or more cameras can allow a spatial relationship between the tooth and the
apparatus 10 to be established. This special relationship informs the controller 20 of where
the tooth or teeth are to thereby ensure that the work is performed with a high degree of
accuracy.
         In a particular embodiment, a practitioner can compare image data from the work site
prior to and after treatment. For instance, the before image data may be overlayed with an
image of the treated site. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that there are numerous
methods to compare the before and after work site that do not depart from the invention.
         A fluorescent light may be fitted to the apparatus which allows the camera(s) to detect
fluorescence emission by microbes in dental plaque on the tooth. The resultant images that
are obtained can be processed to detect caries which may be displayed on a screen in a
different colour.
         As previously stated, the apparatus 10 comprises a light suitable for transillumination
(e.g. a bore light). In a particular embodiment, the controller 20 may turn on the light to
highlight the structure of the tooth 16, which may also be used to identify caries, cavities or
cracks in the tooth whether mesodistally or occlusally, as well as a range of other ailments.
The camera 31 may be controlled to capture image data resulting from the transillumination

                                                 12.
which may be evaluated (e.g. manually or by the stored programs) to plan a treatment for any
discovered ailments.
         In other instances, the one or more lights coupled with one or more cameras allow for
any drilling procedures that may be required to be evaluated, recorded and visualised. This is
achieved as the one or more cameras are able to obtain the real-time dimensions and imagery
of the tooth allowing the accurate location of where work must be performed on the tooth. A
person skilled in the art would appreciate that a light fitted into the apparatus 10 is only one
of the many ways the transillumination technique can be exploited by the apparatus.
Alternatives include using a separate standalone transillumination device, such as an external
light device, while also using the camera feature and/or drilling feature of the apparatus 10 to
provide enhanced visualisation of the results.
         Drillingand Tooth Preparation
         In a particular embodiment, the attachment 17 comprises a bur drill. A specific
example of a drill is shown in Figures 5a and 5b. As illustrated, the bur drill 17 attaches to
the work device 18 by way of the rotator 37 and pivot mechanism 39. In one embodiment,
the drill 17 is air powered by a rotary turbine engine 35 that can create a drill speed of up to
approximately 200,000 revolutions per minute. It will be understood that the drill speed may
be controlled automatically by the controller 20 or manually under the control of an operator
(via a suitable controller interface). In an alternative embodiment, the engine 35 may be an
electrically powered engine, or other suitably powered engine for carrying out the work. It
will also be understood that various shaped and sized burs may be attached by the operator to
the work device 18, depending on the desired implementation using bur drill attachments that
are well understood in the art.
         Fillings and Crowns
         In an embodiment of the present invention, the apparatus 10 is also able to create
fillings and crowns. As an initial step, the apparatus 10 creates a three dimensional model of
the subject tooth using techniques as hereinbefore described. This can be achieved through
the camera and history of the drilling, or using a commercially available intraoral standalone
scanning device. The controller can use the fluorescence result, the dentist's demarcation
through the mouse/joystick and his choice of a certain cavity type and dimensions to design a
digital cavity. Then, the body 12 of the apparatus 10 is detached from the tooth 16 and re
attached to a specialised extraoral base 50, as shown in Figure 6. According to the illustrated

                                                13.
embodiment, the bows of the clamp are respectively inserted into slots disposed in a pair of
arms 5la, 5ib that extend from base 50, so as to secure the body thereto. It will be
understood that the body 12 could be attached to the base using any suitable securing
technique (e.g. the bows could clamp over the arms 5la, 51b in the same way they clamp to
the tooth 16). In yet another embodiment, the body 12 could be detached from the clamp 14
and re-attached to the base 50 using an alternative securing means. A prefabricated block of
filling material 52 is secured by the operator to a cradle 54 coupled to an internally housed
rotator 56 that can be controlled by the controller 20. The cradle 54 may also be moveable in
other planes (e.g. using a similar mechanism to that used for moving the dental work device),
depending on the desired implementation. The controller 20 then controls the various
actuators to carve the material 52 to conform to the cavity and thus produces the desired
crown or filling that fits the prepared tooth. The dentist then cements this structure using
dental cements. It will be understood that the base 50 may include its own water and power
supply, depending on the desired implementation.
         In an alternative embodiment, the apparatus 10 may be configured to perform in-situ
fillings. According to such an embodiment, and with additional reference to Figure 8a, the
apparatus 10 is fitted with a dispensing nozzle 70. In one embodiment the dispensing
nozzle 70 is removably coupled to the rotator 37 (i.e. in place of the burr drill attachment or
other attachment). The nozzle 70 is in turn fluidly connected to a reservoir 72 that is located
remotely of the work device 18 via a conduit 18. A screw pump 59 or other suitable fluid
pressure/pump arrangement may be actuated by the controller 20 to cause contents of the
reservoir 72 to be pump through the conduit 18 and out of the nozzle 70. In an alternative
embodiment (not shown), the reservoir 72 may be located internally of the work device 18 or
attached thereto, with a suitable screw pump, plunger or other dispensing mechanism (which
again may be located within the work device 18 or remotely thereof, depending on the
desired configuration) controlled by the controller 20 to cause contents within the reservoir to
be expelled through the nozzle 70.
         It will be understood that the nozzle 70 may be connected to the work device 18 via
any suitable configuration and need not be removably coupled via the rotator 37. For
example, the nozzle 70 may be permanatly coupled to the rotator by way of a robotic micro
arm and adapted to sit alongside the bur attachment. In yet another alternative embodiment,
the dispensing nozzle 70 may be intergrated into a purpose built work device 18a, as shown
in Figure 8a. In this case, the device 18a includes a body 80 incorporating a plunger 82 with

                                                14.
a linear actuator 84 that can be controlled to dispense stored within an internally located
reservoir 72. The device 18a is coupled to the apparatus 10 in the same way as for the work
device 18, allowing it to be moved in both the X and Y planes.
         The contents stored within the reservoir 72 may take the form of a resin based
composite filling material, such as Luna Composite made by SDI Limited (see URL:
https://www.sdi.com.au/en-eu/product/luna/). The controller 20 may be programmed to
deliver the composite filling material into a cavity within an underlying tooth for filling. The
composite filling material may additionally, or alternatively, applied around the tooth or oral
structure, depending on the procedure. Once a suitable amount of filling material has been
dispensed it can be subjected to a dental curing light 90 for curing (via polymerization) the
deposited filling material. It may additionally, or alternatively, be manipulated so as to
condense or shape the deposited material (alternatively, this may be manually performed by
an operator/dentist using conventional tools). In a particular embodiment, the controller 20
may be programmed to dispense the filling material in thin layers, such that each deposited
layer is cured by the curing light before the next layer is deposited. The work device 18/18a
may be automatically positioned by the controller 20 for depositing the one or more layers of
filling material based on image data previously obtained by the apparatus 10 (as outlined in
detail above).
         In an embodiment, once the final layer of filling has been cured, the burr drill bit
attachment may be re-attached to the work device 18. The drill bit can then be actuated for
shaping the upper layer to conform to the patient's previous upper layer (as determined from
the image data) or to achieve a desired surface profile.
         DispensingMedication
         In an embodiment, the reservoir 72 may be filled with a medication that can be
dispensed via the nozzle 70 to one or more teeth underlying the apparatus 10.
         In yet another embodiment, image data derived from a scan of a cavity in a patient's
tooth (as outlined above) can be used to create a partial or complete filling (either termporary
or permanent) that contains one or more medications. The medications may include, for
example, steroids, anti-biotics, sedatives, or the like. The medications may be contained
within micro-pores or wells present in at least part of the filling. In one embodiment the
filling is built by a 3-D printer based on the image data and the medications are subsequently
placed within the pores. The filling material may comprise the same composite material as

                                               15.
discussed above. The filling is subsequently placed and cemented by the operator into
position. Once in place the medications can leak out of the micro-pores and into the
surrounding dental tissue to exert their medicinal effects. The operator may wish to build
only a portion of medicated filling (the "Base") then build another non-medicated portion
("Body") to cover the Base. In yet another embodiment, the filling may comprise a pre-cured
filling which is subsequently shaped (e.g. by the 3-D printer) to the desired shape of the void
based on the image data discussed above.
         OtherAspects
        Different embodiments of the apparatus 10 may be created to perform one or more of
the following dental procedures: root canal therapy, implant placement, surgical sectioning
and extraction, periodontal therapy and soft tissue surgery, delivering local anaesthesia and
the application and maintenance of orthodontic appliances. As previously stated, the body 12
of the apparatus 10 is adapted to be received within a patient's oral cavity 13. The size of the
body may vary based on the type of oral cavity 13 that it is intended to perform dental
procedures within. For instance, a lager sized body 12 may be used for an adult's oral cavity,
while a smaller apparatus 10 may be used for a child's oral cavity. Persons skilled in the art
will appreciate that the apparatus 10 as described herein can be used with animals, and as
such the size of the device may be larger or smaller depending on the type of animal, and the
type of teeth that will be treated. By way of example, the body 12 of an apparatus 10 for use
with a human adult may be 3cm x 3cm x 2.3cm (allowing it to be received wholly within the
oral cavity) but should not be seen as being limited to this size, and may be bigger or smaller.
        The apparatus 12 may also be fitted with a safety sensor that causes the controller 20
to cease work in response to detecting a hazard. By way of example, a pressure sensor may
be fitted to an upper surface of the body 12. If a patient bites down on the apparatus 10, the
pressure sensor will detect the bite and cause a signal to be sent to the controller 20 which
causes the controller 20 to initiate an emergency procedure including ceasing operation of the
actuators and raising the dental work device 18 off the tooth.
        As hereinbefore described, the anchoring means 14 took the form of a clamp having a
pair of bows. It will be understood that the body 12 may be configured to attach to any form
of clamp depending on the desired implementation. For example, as persons skilled in the art
will appreciate, that there are many forms of clamp having varied configurations that are
suited to the working site (e.g. that conform to the different morphologies of teeth, such as

                                                 16.
anterior, posterior, upper and lower) and a dentists preferences. By way of example, the
apparatus 10 could be removably attached to a wingless clamp, a distal clamp, a cervical or
labial clamp, a retention clamp, a retraction clamp, or the like. Further, it will be understood
that the body 12 may only secure to a single bow of the clamp.
         In another anchoring embodiment, the body 12 may need to be anchored to more than
one tooth simultaneously using more than one clamp. For example, one form of clamp may
attach to two teeth (anterior and posterior) in operation. This is useful when the a particular
tooth is badly broken down so that it is unable to receive clamping, or when there is a need to
relieve the tooth of clamping and hence use adjacent teeth for apparatus retention.
         The apparatus 10 is adapted to perform work within at least one work site. The work
site is the portion of the oral cavity that requires diagnosis or treatment. In some instances,
this may be the entire upper or lower arch, whereas in other instances this may only be a
portion of the oral cavity, such as one or more teeth, a portion of the gingiva, or a
combination of the two. There may be one or more work sites where the apparatus 10 is able
to perform work. Work may be performed on these work sites at the same time, or at different
times.
         Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the body and internal components may
be formed of any suitable material that can be sterilized, such as alloy stainless steel. It will
also be appreciated that any moving parts (such as motor gears used in the engines) are
formed of a corrosion resistant material. An appropriate sterilization technique that may be
employed includes placing the apparatus 10 in a steriliser, immersion or spaying with
disinfecting solutions or the like.
         In this specification, the word "comprising" is to be understood in its "open" sense,
that is, in the sense of "including", and thus not limited to its "closed" sense, that is the sense
of "consisting only of'. A corresponding meaning is to be attributed to the corresponding
words "comprise", "comprised" and "comprises" where they appear.
         The preceding description is provided in relation to several embodiments which may
share common characteristics and features. It is to be understood that one or more features of
any one embodiment may be combinable with one or more features of the other
embodiments. In addition, any single feature or combination of features in any of the
embodiments may constitute additional embodiments.

                                               17.
         In addition, the foregoing describes only some embodiments of the inventions, and
alterations, modifications, additions and/or changes can be made thereto without departing
from the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments, the embodiments being illustrative
and not restrictive.
         Furthermore, the inventions have described in connection with what are presently
considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments, it is to be understood that the
invention is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments, but on the contrary, is intended to
cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope
of the inventions. Also, the various embodiments described above may be implemented in
conjunction with other embodiments, e.g., aspects of one embodiment may be combined with
aspects of another embodiment to realize yet other embodiments. Further, each independent
feature or component of any given assembly may constitute an additional embodiment.

                                                18.
CLAIMS
1.      An apparatus assisting in dental procedure, comprising:
        a body adapted to be received with an oral cavity;
        an anchoring means for securing the body within the oral cavity such that it at least
partially surrounds one or more teeth;
        a dental device located within the body and adapted to move in a plurality of planes
relative to the one or more teeth; and
        a controller for controlling the dental device to move into a suitable position relative
to the one or more teeth and once located in position control the dental work device to carry
out work on or about the one or more teeth.
2.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the work device comprises a nozzle for depositing
a composite material to the one or more teeth under the control of the controller.
3.      The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a curing light operable to cure the
deposited composite material.
4.      The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the movement of
the dental device is controlled by way of one or more actuators located remotely of the body.
5.      The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the dental device is movable on one or
more rails and wherein one or more lead screws within the body are rotatable by
corresponding remotely located actuators for effecting the movement of the dental device.
6.      The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the body is
adapted to be wholly received within the oral cavity.
7.      The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the anchoring means is a
clamp that is adapted to secure to the one or more teeth and/or a tooth or teeth adjacent to the
one or more teeth.
8.      The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the clamp comprises one or more clamp peaks and
one or more clamp bows and wherein the body is coupled to the bow(s).

                                                19.
9.       The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the body comprises one or
more cameras operable to take an image of the work site and wherein the controller is
configured to process the resultant image data for use in determining at least one of:
a.       the position to locate the dental device for performing the work;
b.       appropriate selection of the preprogramed procedure;
c.       monitor in real time the operations performed by the apparatus; and
d.       diagnose anomalies of the tooth structures by means of direct imagery,
transillumination and/or fluorescence.
10.      The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the dental device
comprises one or more lights for illuminating the oral cavity.
11.      The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the one or more lights are transillumination lights
adapted to transilluminate the one or more teeth.
12.      The apparatus of any of the proceeding claims, wherein the controller comprises a
processing unit programmed to instruct the work device to perform work.
13.      The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a conduit for connected to a remotely
located reservoir from the composite material is supplied.
14.      The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a reservoir located within the body and
adapted to store the composite material, the reservoir being fluidly coupled to the nozzle.
15.      A method assisting in dental procedure, comprising utilising the dental apparatus
according to any one of the preceding claims for performing the dental procedure.
16.      A computer readable medium storing computer program code which, when executed
by a computer processor, is operable to control the controller of claim 1 to operate the dental
work device.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
