                                         ABSTRACT
            The present invention relates to transaction processing, for processing of
   payments between payer's (usually individual payers) and payee's (usually merchants.
 5          Conventionally, a payment transaction involves a user's account details being
   provided to a merchant device, e.g. by swiping a card in the card swipe of the merchant
   device. The merchant device then prepares a transaction message including information
   such as the user's account ID, merchant ID and payment information and forwards that
   message to a transaction processing system, which may comprise a transaction acquirer
10 and an issuing bank.     The transaction processing system approves the payment and
   returns confirmation to the merchant.
            In the present invention a device associated with the payer, which in a
   preferred embodiment is a suitably adapted mobile telephone, becomes involved in the
   payment transaction process.
15          At one level, the transaction processing system requests from the payer
   electronic device confirmation that the transaction should proceed and the payer keys in
   an appropriate PIN to authorise the transaction.
            At another level, all the transaction processing information is provided from
   the payer electronic device to the transaction processing system and the transaction
20 processing system or the payer electronic device then confirm that the transaction is
   authorised to the merchant device. This takes the burden of transaction processing off
   the merchant and also increases the security of the transaction as the payer is in control.
            In a further embodiment, the payer electronic device may also upload listings
   of products and select products at the same time as paying for them, the payee
25 (merchant) being advised of the selected product.

                                              -  1
      A TRANSACTION PROCESSING METHOD, APPARATUS AND SYSTEM
   RELATED APPLICATION
 5 This application is a divisional application of Australian application no. 2015215957,
   the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
10           The present invention relates generally to transaction processing methods and
   systems and more particularly, but not exclusively, to transaction processing systems
   for facilitating payments at point of sale or on-line between payers (who may be
   members of the general public) and payees (who will usually be merchants).
15 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             Payment for a product or a service is often made in an electronic manner. For
   example, the payment may be made using a credit or charge card and a financial
   institution such as a bank may initiate transfer of the payment, either directly or via one
20 or more intermediary institutions, to an account of a payee after a payer has authorised
   the transfer.   Authorisation of the transfer may, for example, involve providing the
   payee with the credit card or charge card and signing an invoice.         The payee then
   compares the payer's signatures on the invoice with the signature on the card and if he is
   satisfied he accepts the authorisation of the payment.
25           Various other methods have been proposed to have the payer "sign" the
   transaction to verify a payment, including, for example, using a security pin number.
             However, there are still substantial security risks that need to be considered.
   For example, payment using a credit or charge card usually requires to give the card to
   the payee for a short period of time until the invoice is issued and signed.      Magnetic
30 strip cards are easily copied on relatively inexpensive equipment and the copied cards
   may be used for fraudulent transactions. Electronic payment systems that involve the
   Internet have related security problems. There is a general need for a payment system
   that offers improved security and convenience.

                                              -  2
             Further, the general paradigm conventionally associated with processing
   payment transactions is that the transaction processing communications (messages
   including payment information, such as account ID of payer, merchant ID, transaction
   amount, etc.) are processed between the payee or merchant device and a transaction
 5 processing system (usually a transaction acquirer and one or more issuing banks). The
   payer has little to do with the transaction processing other than to provide their account
   details (which, as discussed above, are then open to being obtained for fraudulent use).
   No    one has suggested       an alternative    system to the conventional       merchant
   device/transaction processing system arrangement.
10
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             In accordance with a first aspect, the present invention provides method of
   making a payment, comprising the steps of:
15           providing information associated with a payer, the information being provided
   in a manner so that a payee can access the information,
             receiving information about the payment by a payer electronic device
   associated with the payer, and
             giving instructions for making the payment using the electronic device
20 associated with the payer.
             Members of the public generally nowadays possess one or more electronic
   devices. For example, the mobile telephone is ubiquitous. In one embodiment, the
   method involves using such a ubiquitous electronic device associated with the payer to
   give instructions for making the payment. The electronic device may be a dedicated
25 payer electronic device or may be a modified mobile telephone.
             Every payer may therefore have an electronic device associated with them
   which they can use to provide instructions for making payment. In one embodiment,
   the instructions for making payment may be a mere confirmation for a transaction
   processing system that payment should proceed. Nevertheless, this adds an extra layer
30 of security (requiring information from an electronic device associated with the payer)
   that is absent with present transactions.
             The payment may be a card-present payment, for example where the payer
   attends at a point of sale ("POS").        The transaction may be card-not-present, for

                                             -  3
   example an Internet payment. Where the payment is an on-line payment, such as an
   Internet payment, the electronic device is not the computer that the payer is using to
   access a merchant's website, but is a separate electronic device.
            In one embodiment, the payer electronic device is arranged (by, for example,
 5 including an appropriate software application) to recognise payment information. In
   one embodiment, software enabling recognition of payment information in a similar
   way to present transaction processing software may be available, so that the payer
   electronic device may formulate messages including payment information and transmit
   those messages to a transaction system (for example for use by transaction acquirers
10 and issuing banks).
            In one embodiment, the payer electronic device may include security measures
   to add to the security of the process.      These may include transmission of digital
   signature as the confirmation, and in one embodiment the payer electronic device may
   require that the user input a message e.g. a PIN on a keypad.        In one embodiment,
15 firmware may require that the PIN be input in response to payment information
   appearing on a display of the device, to prevent hackers utilising the payment
   application without the payer knowing.
            The information about the payment may, in one embodiment, include product
   information, in the form of a listing including at least one product identifier.     The
20 method in this case includes the further step of the payer electronic device selecting at
   least one product identifier and the information associated with the payer includes the
   selected product identifier.    In one embodiment, a listing including a plurality of
   product identifiers may be provided to the payer electronic device and the payer can
   then select from that listing. The selections are provided to the payee electronic device
25 and the payee can therefore provide the products to the payer.
            This has the advantage that the payee receives a product "order" and at the
   same time the order may be paid for. This allows a user to shop and pay at the same
   time.
            In one embodiment, the payer electronic device can obtain all the payment
30 information required for the transaction process from the payee electronic device and
   then can deal with the transaction process directly with the processing system. This
   takes the burden of transaction processing away from merchants and allows individual
   payers to have full control of the process without, for example, requiring them to give

   their credit card details over to the merchant.      Instead, the payer electronic device
   provides account details to the transaction processing system.
             In accordance with a second aspect, the present invention provides a method of
   processing a payment transaction, including the steps of a transaction processing
 5 system, receiving instructions for making a payment from a payer electronic device
   associated with a payer, the transaction processing system authorising payment, and the
   transaction processing system providing confirmation that the payment transfer has
   been authorised.
             In accordance with a third aspect, the present invention provides an apparatus
10 for facilitating a payment transaction from a payer to a payee, comprising a payer
   electronic device associated with the payer, the payer electronic device including
   payment information receiving means for receiving information about the payment, and
   payment instructing means for giving instructions for making the payment.
             In accordance with a fourth aspect, the present invention provides a transaction
15 processing system for processing a payment transaction, including payment instruction
   receiving means arranged to receive instructions for making a payment from a payer to
   a payee, from a payer electronic device associated with the payer, and a payment
   processing means for authorising transfer of funds from a payer account to a payee
   account.
20           In accordance with a fifth aspect, the present invention provides an apparatus
   for facilitating processing of a transaction, comprising a payee electronic device
   arranged for communication with a transaction processing system in accordance with a
   forth aspect.
             In accordance with a sixth aspect, the present invention provides a database
25 including a plurality of product listings available for payer electronic devices, whereby
   the payer electronic devices may select one or more products from the product listings,
   for transmission to a payee to fill the product request.
             In accordance with a seventh aspect, the present invention provides a passive
   device being arranged to be readable by a payer electronic device for facilitating a
30 payment transaction.
             In accordance with an eighth aspect, the present invention provides a passive
   device including information identifying an application for an electronic device to
   utilise to process information associated with the passive device.

                                             -  5
             In accordance with a ninth aspect, the present invention provides a method of
   launching software applications, comprising the step of utilising a passive device
   including information identifying the location of the software application, uploading the
   information to a user device, and utilising the user device to obtain the application from
 5 a remote location.
             In accordance with a tenth aspect, the present invention provides a method or
   organising a queue, comprising the steps of providing information to a user mobile
   phone which indicates the position of a user within the queue and updating the
   information as the users position in the queue moves.
10
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             Features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from
   the following description of embodiments thereof, by way of example only, with
15 reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
             Figure 1 is a schematic block diagram of a general payment method and
   system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
             Figure 2 is a schematic block diagram showing a payment system in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention in more detail;
20           Figure 3 is a flow diagram showing one possible operation of the payment
   system of Figure 2;
             Figure 4 is a block diagram showing a payment system utilising an
   embodiment of the present invention;
             Figure 5 is a flow diagram showing one operation process utilising the system
25 of Figure 4;
             Figure 6 is a block diagram illustrating operation of a system in accordance
   with a further embodiment of the present invention;
             Figure 7 is a flow diagram illustrating one possible operation of the system of
   Figure 6;
30           Figure 8 is a block diagram illustrating operation of a payment system in
   accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention;
             Figure 9 is a flow diagram showing one possible operation of the system of
   Figure 8;

                                             -  6
             Figure 10 is a block diagram showing operation of a payment system in
   accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention;
             Figure 11 is a flow diagram illustrating one possible operation of the system of
   Figure 10;
 5           Figure 12 is a block diagram showing operation of a system in accordance with
   a further embodiment of the present invention;
             Figure 13 is a flow diagram showing one possible operation of the system of
   Figure 12;
             Figure 14 is a block diagram showing operation of a system in accordance with
10 a further embodiment of the present invention;
             Figure 15 is a flow diagram showing one possible process of operation of the
   system of Figure 14;
             Figure 16 is a example view of a "menu" appearing on a payer electronic
   device in the system of Figure 14;
15           Figure 17 is a flow diagram showing a process in accordance with a further
   embodiment of the present invention;
             Figure 18 is a block diagram showing application of a system in accordance
   with yet a further embodiment of the present invention;
             Figure 19 is a more detailed block diagram showing components that may be
20 involved in a transaction processing system in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention; and
             Figure 20 is a block diagram of a payer electronic device in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention.
25 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
             Figure 1 is a "high level" view of apparatus which may be used to implement
   various embodiments of the present invention.             Unlike conventional payment
   transactions, which usually only require an electronic device associated with the payee
30 (a "merchant device") and a transaction processing system (which may usually
   comprise a transaction acquirer/gateway and a financial institution) to process a
   payment, embodiments of the present invention require a further integer, being an
   electronic device associated with a payer, to be involved in the transaction processing.

             In conventional     systems,   a merchant     device  usually obtains account
   identification data from a payer by swiping a magnetic card (or obtaining information
   from a smart card). The merchant device then prepares a message with all payment
   information (e.g. merchant ID, payment amount, merchant account, account ID of payer
 5 etc) and transmits the message to the transaction processing system. The transaction
   processing system may then check the account of the payer to ensure that sufficient
   funds are available for the transaction (depending on whether or not there is a floor limit
   associated with the account) and returns an approval of the transaction or denial of the
   transaction to the merchant device. If transaction authorisation (approval) is received,
10 the merchant (payee) can be assured that the transaction will proceed.
             This conventional process has all the security problems discussed above, as
   well as requiring every payee to implement infrastructure associated with the payment
   processing system.
             In accordance with embodiments of the present invention, a payer electronic
15 device 1 associated with a payer is required for a transaction processing system 2 to
   proceed with a payment transaction from a payer to a payee.         In the embodiment in
   accordance with Figure 1, information 3 associated with the payer will be provided to
   the payee electronic device 4. As will be seen later in this description, this information
   3 may comprise different elements. For example, it may comprise account details of a
20 payer or mere confirmation that a transaction between the payer and payee has been
   authorised.
             Without involvement of the payer electronic device 1, however, the transaction
   will not be authorised. This adds an extra layer of security, and in some embodiments
   (to be described) greatly conveniences the payer and payee involved in the transaction.
25 In some embodiments, the requirement for the payee to be involved in the payment
   transaction process may be obviated. Instead, the payer becomes the main channel for
   launching and dealing with payment transactions. This is a shift from the conventional
   paradigm of the merchant being responsible for transactions. Embodiments enable the
   payer to retain all their account details so that they do not have to pass via a merchant
30 and do not compromise security.
             Embodiments of the present invention implement a number of levels of
   sophistication of involvement of the payer electronic device 1. At one level, the payer
   electronic device merely provides a confirmation that a payment should proceed, and

                                             - 8
   otherwise the transaction is processed substantially conventionally, via the payee
   electronic device and transaction processing system.
            At another level, the payer electronic device launches the payment process and
   deals with transaction messaging with the transaction processing system.         In this
 5 embodiment the payee electronic device may merely receive a confirmation that
   payment has occurred, all processing going by way of the payer electronic device.
            At yet another level of sophistication, a means may be provided where the
   payer electronic device may select product via the transaction processing system, as
   well as pay for that product.
10          In one embodiment (first level), the information associated with the payer may
   be account information, provided by a means 3 for providing the information such as a
   swipe card, credit card, account card or smart card.       A payee electronic device 4
   associated with a payee, such as a card reading device, reads the information from the
   card 3 and sends information about the payment to a transaction processing system 2.
15 The transaction processing system 2 will be described in more detail later, but will
   generally comprise a transaction gateway or acquirer, it may also comprise an issuing
   financial institution such as an issuing bank. This is a standard arrangement wherein
   the transaction gateway receives the processing information and checks with an issuing
   bank that a payer is able to pay. In this embodiment, the transaction processing system
20 2 then communicates with the payer electronic device 1 in order to obtain confirmation
   from the payer electronic device 1 that payment should proceed.
            The payer electronic device 1 in this embodiment is a modified mobile phone
   and will be described in more detail later on in the description. The payer electronic
   device 1 transmits a confirmation to the transaction processing system 2 and the
25 transaction processing system 2 then transmits payment authorisation to the payee
   electronic device 4.
            Figure 2 shows a different representation of the level one embodiment,
   comprising a payer electronic device 1 in the form of a modified mobile telephone, a
   payee electronic device 4 in the form of a conventional card reader with card swipe 10,
30 display 11 and keypad 12. The transaction processing system is again represented by a
   block 2. The payer has a card 3 which may be a credit card. Referring to the flow
   diagram of Figure 3, a transaction process in accordance with the embodiment of
   Figure 2 will now be described.

                                            -  9
            At Step 13 the payer card 3 is swiped in the payee device card swipe 10. In the
   following description note that the "payee device" will be referred to as a "merchant
   device" or "MD".
            At Step 14, a transaction message is sent from the MD 4 to the transaction
 5 processing system "TPS" 2. The transaction message may include all the information
   that is conventionally included for transaction processing e.g. credit card details,
   payment amount.
            At Step 15, the TPS 2 transmits a request for confirmation that payment should
   proceed (a "request for confirmation") to the payer device ("PD") 1.
10          At Step 16, the payer keys in confirmation using the keyboard 20 of the PD 1.
   The PD 1 then transmits the confirmation to the TPS 2.
            At Step 17, the TPS 2 transmits transaction authorisation to the MD 4.
            The inclusion of the payer electronic device 1 in the process has the advantage
   of providing additional security to the transaction. The payer does not just require his
15 credit card, but also requires access to his modified mobile telephone to enable a
   transaction to proceed. The payer may be required to key in a security code such as a
   PIN that the transaction processing system can compare with a PIN stored in a database.
            It is unlikely that a fraudster would have access to a user's credit card, his
   mobile telephone, and also be aware of a PIN to enable a fraudulent transaction to go
20 forward.
            Other security measures may be implemented. In one embodiment, a digital
   signature security arrangement may be utilised between the transaction processing
   system and the PD 1.
            In another embodiment, firmware may be utilised in the PD 1 to ensure that the
25 payer must activate an input means (keypad 20) in order to ensure that the payment
   transaction goes forward. This avoids hackers being able to operate the phone remotely
   in order to approve payment transactions without the owner of the PD 1 being aware of
   it.  With the firmware, the hacker cannot change the firmware and the payer 1 is
   required to key in confirmation via the keypad 20.        The firmware 1 may also be
30 arranged to require that payment information appear on the display 21 of the PD 1, so,
   for example, the payer may review payment information, such as payment amount,
   before keying in the confirmation.

                                             -   10
            In a variation of the process illustrated in Figure 3, instead of or in addition to
   the TPS 2 transmitting the transaction authorisation to the MD 4 (Step 17), at Step 17A,
   the TPS 2 transmits the transaction authorisation to the PD 1. The payer then, for
   example, shows the authorisation to the payee (the authorisation appearing on the
 5 screen of the PD 1). In one embodiment, authorisation details may be provided on the
   screen 21 of the PD 1 in an encoded form which can be identified by an appropriate
   reader which may be provided with the MD 4. In Figure 2 no reader is shown, but
   could be provided on the MD 4. For example, the coding could be a barcode appearing
   on the screen 21, to be read by an appropriate barcode reader on the MD 4.
10          A receipt for payment may also be sent to the PD 1, which may have an
   application for storing receipts for transactions and therefore keeping accounts.
            The ability to use an electronic device associated with a payer to confirm that a
   payment transaction should proceed may also be applied to on-line transactions (as well
   as the point-of-sale ("POS") type transactions discussed above).
15          Referring to Figure 4, a typical on-line transaction involves a payer accessing,
   via the Internet 25 and utilising a computer such as a PC 26, a merchant website 27
   provided by a merchant server 28. After selection of a product the payer enters their
   credit card details. The merchant server 28 then continues to deal with the payment
   transaction. As is well-known, this process is open to fraud.
20          In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, a PD 1 associated
   with the payer may be used to increase security. Referring to Figure 5, a transaction
   process carried out in accordance with this embodiment will now be described.
            At Step 29, a payer selects merchandise from a merchant website 27 and enters
   their account details (usually credit card number) on the merchant website 27.
25          At Step 30, the usual transaction message is sent from the merchant server 28
   to a TPS 2.
            In accordance with this embodiment, the TPS 2 then transmits a request for
   confirmation that payment should proceed to the PD 1. The payer keys in confirmation
   on his PD 1 (Step 32) and the PD 1 transmits the confirmation to the TPS 2.
30          The TPS 2 then transmits a transaction authorisation to the merchant server 28
   (Step 33).
            The TPS may have a database storing information enabling communication
   with the payer electronic device (e.g. mobile telephone number).

                                             -  11
             The above embodiments generally relate to the payer electronic device being
   used to provide an additional layer of security, by requiring confirmation from the payer
   electronic device that the payment transaction should proceed. The payer electronic
   device may also be used to receive transaction authorisation and receipts but,
 5 essentially, the transaction process is conventional and much of the messaging occurs
   between the payee electronic device and the transaction processing system.         In the
   following embodiments, the payer electronic device may take on more of the
   transaction processing, resulting generally in an increase in convenience of operation of
   a transaction process.
10           Referring to Figure 2, the PD 1 is provided with some means 35 that enables
   local communication.      The means for enabling local communication 35 includes an
   "access device" and may include a contactless with smart card which is provided with
   the mobile telephone (perhaps affixed to the mobile telephone). The payee electronic
   device 4 is provided with an appropriate reader 36. The access device 35 when touched
15 to the reader 36 or when in close proximity to the reader 36 is arranged to provide
   information to the MD 4 that enables the MD 4 to subsequently communicate with the
   PD 1. For example, the identification information may be a telephone number so that
   the MD 4 can use a mobile telephone network to contact the PD 1. Alternatively, local
   wireless may be used         for communication between the PD             1 and MD 4,
20 e.g. BluetoothTM. The MD 4 can therefore send information about the payment to the
   PD 1. This can enable the PD 1 to take a more active role in the transaction process.
             In one embodiment, the MD 4 may send a payment amount to the PD 1. A
   payer 1 may then vary the payment amount (appearing on the screen 21) and
   communicate the varied payment amount back to the MD 4 for subsequent transaction
25 processing. Such an embodiment would be useful in a "tip" situation, for example. In a
   restaurant, for example, the payer may enter their tip using PD 1 which would prevent
   any fraudulent manipulation as may occur when tips are entered manually on payment
   slips.   The rest of the transaction process may take place as described in above
   embodiments by confirmation being required by the PD 1.
30           Figure 7 is a flow diagram showing a payment process which may be
   implemented utilising the embodiment of Figure 6.
             At Step 38, the payer card 3 is swiped in card reader 10 of the MD 4.

                                             - 12
             At Step 39, a transaction message with transaction information is sent from the
   MD 4 to the TPS 2. The PD 1 then sends wireless communication information via the
   access device 35 and reader 36 to the MD 4 to enable wireless communication between
   the MD 4 and PD 1 (Step 40).
 5           At Step 41, the MD 4 sends a "payment request" to the PD 1, by wireless. The
   payment request may include payment information, such as a payment amount. Note
   that if the option is being given to the payer to vary the payment information (which is
   varying the payment amount) the MD 4 may await a reply from the PD 1 before sending
   a transaction message to the TPS (i.e. Step 39 would come further down the flow
10 diagram).
             At Step 42, in response to the payment request from the MD 4 (and after
   entering any further information, such as a variation in the payment amount) the PD 1
   transmits confirmation that the transaction should proceed to the TPS 2.
             At Step 43, the TPS 2 subsequently transmits transaction authorisation to the
15 MD 4, letting the payee know that the transaction may proceed. Alternatively, the TPS
   2 at Step 43A transmits the transaction authorisation to the PD 1 (and 43B) the PD 1
   wireless transmits the authorisation to the MD 4.
             Note that a separate access device (such as smart card 35) may not be required,
   and instead access may be incorporated in the appropriately configured PD 1 and MD 4
20 e.g. to allow direct wireless communication.
             In the embodiment of Figure 6 and Figure 7, the payer still swipes a card in the
   payee device, and the merchant device still deals with much of the transaction
   processing. Figure 8 illustrates an embodiment where no card or device other than the
   payer device 1 is required by the payer in order to process a transaction.
25           An access device 35 and reader 36 may still be provided (or, as discussed
   above, the devices 1 and 4 may be appropriately configured to initialise short range
   communication in some other way). In this embodiment, the PD 1 also includes an
   application (which may be implemented in software) enabling it to formulate
   transaction messages for use in transaction processing.
30           Referring to Figure 9, to undertake a payment transaction, PD 1 and MD 4
   establish communications with each other. Then, at Step 45 MD 4 sends payment
   information (by wireless) to the PD 1, including information required to process a
   payment such as merchant ID and payment amount.

                                             -  13
             At Step 46, a transaction message is sent from the PD 1 to the TPS 2, including
   the usual information required for transaction processing, such as merchant ID, payment
   amount and identity of the payer so that a payer account can be identified. At the same
   time, the transaction message may include confirmation that the transaction should
 5 proceed.
             At Step 47, the TPS 1 may transmit transaction authorisation to the MD 4.
   Alternatively,    at Step 47A, the     PD     1 may receive    transaction  authorisation
   communicated from the TPS 2 and at Step 47B the PD 1 wireless transmits the
   authorisation to the MD 4.
10           It will be appreciated that if the pathway 47A and 47B is chosen, there is no
   need for a merchant device having the ability to communicate with the TPS 2. Payee
   electronic devices may therefore be provided which only have a local communications
   facility (e.g. wireless) to communicate with a payer electronic device, the payer
   electronic device subsequently carrying out the bulk of the transaction processing
15 communications. A major advantage of this arrangement, is that account details (such
   as credit card details) of a payer may never need to go via a merchant device. Further,
   from a convenience and security point of view, the payer has total control of the
   transaction. As discussed in relation to above embodiments, payment information may
   appear on the screen 21 so that the payer may review the information, varying the
20 information via the keypad input 20 (such as varying a tip) etc. The payer has total
   control.
            Note that in a variation on this embodiment, all communications may go via
   the MD 4. That is, a payment message may be prepared by the PD 1 and then locally
   wireless transmitted to the MD 4 for subsequent passing on to the transaction
25 processing system. This is a less secure alternative, as all the payer information will
   then pass via the merchant device.        It may be convenient in some circumstances,
   however (e.g. where there are communications difficulties between the PD and the
   transaction processing system 2).
             The account ID of the payer may be transmitted in encrypted form, together
30 with a digital signature.     Any security may be applied.      In one embodiment, the
   transaction processing system 2 keeps a database of "split" account numbers. That is, a
   portion of the account number is kept by the TPS 2 database, and another portion of the

                                             -  14
   account number is kept by the payer device 1. A hacker cannot therefore obtain all of
   the account ID by hacking into the PD 1.
             In a further option, the merchant device 4 may comprise two parts 4A and 4B
   (Figure 8). Part 4A may be a mobile device, such as may be carried by an operative
 5 such as a waiter in a restaurant. Part 4B may be a payee electronic device. The waiter
   may take the device 4A close to the PD 1 in order to obtain communication details
   (e.g. to initialise communication), so that the PD 1 can subsequently communicate with
   the part 4B enabling, for example, the PD 1 to upload transaction details and then
   continue with the transaction process.
10           The device 4A may provide contact details for the other part of the device 4B.
   The device 4A may in fact be a passive device, which can be powered from power from
   the PD 1. In a restaurant situation, for example, the part 4A may be able to provide
   information such as a table number in the restaurant so that, in subsequent
   communication with the part 4B (which may be an electronic cash till) the payer can be
15 identified as being the person sitting at that particular table in the restaurant and
   therefore a bill for the payer can be calculated and generated by the part 4B and
   transmitted to the PD 1 associated with the payer.
             The two part merchant device 4 may take any convenient configuration. The
   part 4A merely needs to provide information enabling a payer device 1 to contact the
20 (usually more complex) part 4B in order to obtain payment information.
             Figure 10 illustrates a system where a PD 1 can deal with transaction
   processing for on-line payments. The same reference numerals are used in Figure 10 as
   were used in Figure 4 to denote similar components.
             In this embodiment, the PD 1 includes an application for preparing transaction
25 messages for transaction processing.
             Referring to Figure 11, at Step 50, a payer selects, via PC 26 and Internet 25, a
   product from a merchant website 27.
             At Step 51, the PD 1 uploads payment information, including merchant ID and
   payment amount (and any other information that may be required for a transaction
30 process to go forward). Uploading may be via wired or wireless communication with
   the PC 26.       Alternatively, when selecting product 27, the payer may provide the
   merchant server 28 with contact details for the PD 1, and the merchant server 28 may
   then send (e.g. by mobile telephone communications network) the payment information

                                             -   15
   to the PD 1. In yet a further alternative, PC 26 may be dispensed with, and PD 1 (which
   may be a modified web-enabled mobile telephone) directly accesses the website 27 and
   uploads payment information.
             At Step 52, a transaction message is prepared by the PD 1 and sent to the TPS
 5 with transaction confirmation and account ID.
             At Step 53, the TPS 2 transmits the transaction authorisation to the merchant
   server. Subsequently, a receipt may be produced for the PD 1 (and may be transmitted
   from the merchant server to the PD 1).
             Encryption and other security aspects that are discussed above may apply in
10 this embodiment. A major advantage of this embodiment is that account details, such as
   credit card details are not required to be placed on a network such as the Internet.
             Figure 12 illustrates a further embodiment of the present invention.       In this
   embodiment, the payer electronic device 1 includes a reading means 55 which is
   arranged to read payment information from a passive device 56.           In the illustrated
15 embodiment, the reading means 55 is a camera 55 (cameras are now commonly
   provided with mobile telephones).       The reading means may be any other convenient
   reading means, however, such as a barcode scanner. In this embodiment, a camera 55 is
   utilised together with application software enabling the mobile telephone to detect the
   passive device image from the camera and process the information provided by the
20 passive device.
             Further, the passive device 56 need not be a bar-code, but could be any passive
   device which can be read to provide payment information e.g. RF.
             In one embodiment, the payment information provided by the passive device
   may be a merchant ID, enabling the PD 1 to subsequently communicate with a
25 merchant device 4 such as in the embodiment of Figure 8.            Processing then may
   subsequently proceed along the lines of the process of Figure 9 except that the payment
   information from the MD 4 is obtained via the passive device and reader means 55 in
   the PD 1. The passive device may be a barcode on a table in a restaurant, for example.
             At a more sophisticated level, the passive device may provide payment
30 information which enables the PD 1 to proceed and launch a payment transaction. For
   example, the passive device 56 may include sufficient information for a PD 1 with the
   appropriate software applications to prepare a transaction message for a transaction
   processing system 2.

                                             -  16
             Operation of the system of Figure 12 will now be described in relation to
   Figure 13.
             At Step 58, the PD 1 obtains payment information from the passive device 56.
   In the embodiment of Figure 12, the payer takes a photograph of the barcode 56 with
 5 his camera 55 and the application on the PD 1 recognises the barcode and obtains the
   payment information.
             Also in the embodiment of Figure 12, the barcode 56 is provided with a bill 57
   which may, for example, be a restaurant bill.         The information on the barcode 56
   includes all the information required to process a transaction for paying a merchant
10 (e.g. the owner of the restaurant).     That is, it will include a merchant ID, payment
   amount and any other information that is required to prepare a transaction message.
             At Step 59, a transaction message is prepared by the PD 1 and is sent to the
   TPS 2 together with transaction confirmation and an account ID of the payer.
             At Step 60, the TPS 2 communicates with the MD 70 and provides the MD 70
15 with transaction authorisation. Alternatively, as with above embodiments the TPS 60A
   may advise the PD 1 of the transaction authorisation and the PD at 60B then transmits
   the transaction authorisation to the MD 70.        The MD 70 may produce a receipt 71
   and/or transmit an electronic receipt to the PD 1.           Alternatively, the transaction
   processing system 2 may receive an electronic receipt from the MD 17 and transmit it
20 on to the PD 1.
             It will be appreciated that such an arrangement has significant advantages. For
   example, bills received through the post (utility bills, for example) may include a
   passive device including payment information which may be read by a reader of a
   payer's electronic device to enable the payer electronic device to deal with bill payment.
25           In a further embodiment, the passive device may provide a transaction ID
   number, and require the PD 1 to communicate with a remote database (e.g. run by a
   merchant system) containing the transaction information.            The database may be
   associated with an electronic cash register, for example. The PD 1 then picks up the
   required payment information from the database and carries out the transaction by
30 communicating with the TPS 2. In this embodiment, the payer may even manually key
   in the transaction ID number.
             Note also that in the above embodiments where the payer device deals with the
   transaction, the merchant device must be arranged to recognise a transaction approval

                                              -  17
   code (or similar identifier) sent either by the phone or by a TPS 2 in response to
   transaction processing initiated by the PD 1.
            Some example situations where this embodiment would be useful are as
   follows:
 5          *         A bill is produced by a merchant cash register with a bar code
   including payment information. The PD 1 scans the barcode (takes a photograph), the
   payer authorises a transaction via the TPS 2. The TPS approves the transaction and
   informs the payer via PD 1. The PD 1 displays an authorisation code on its screen 21
   which is read by a barcode reader (not shown in Figure 12) at the merchant store.
10          0         A variation on the above example is for the response from the
   transaction processing system 2 to be conveyed directly to the merchant device 70 via
   the Internet or other electronic system.
            *         A docket is produced at a merchant cash register incorporating the
   barcode. The barcode is read by a PD 1 by a payer at a table in a caf6. The payment is
15 processed and a response is sent to the cash register or even to the phone of a waiter
   serving the table. The consumer can then leave.
            In a further embodiment, as well as payment information being provided to the
   payer device, product information may also be provided. The product information may
   be provided in the form of a listing which includes at least one product identifier, and
20 the payer device includes means (which will generally be a software application)
   enabling selection of a product. The information on selection of the product can be
   transmitted to a payee (via a payee electronic device) so that, as well as the payer
   electronic device being able to pay the payee it can also order product. This enables a
   payer electronic device to become "personal cash register". The payer can both order
25 and pay for product using their own device.
            The product information may be provided by a number of means, including by
   passive devices (such as barcode) transmission from a payee electronic device,
   uploading from the Internet, etc.
            Figure 14 illustrates a number of options for obtaining and utilising product
30 information in accordance with this embodiment.            It will be appreciated that the
   invention is not limited to the options illustrated in Figure 14.
            One option is to provide the product information via a passive device such as a
   barcode 71 which may be associated with the product. In Figure 14, one example is

                                             -  18
   shown as a restaurant menu 72 which includes a conventional list of items 73 as well as
   a barcode 71 which may be photographed by the PD 1 of the payer to upload a menu to
   the PD 1.
             Referring to Figure 15, an example process is as follows.
 5           At Step 80, the PD 1 uploads the menu including the product listing.            A
   software application on the PD 1 enables a list of products to appear on the display 21
   and a payer may select from the list utilising the input 20 (Step 81).
             At Step 82, the PD 1 prepares a transaction message including the merchant
   ID, product ID, account ID or any other information that is required to process the
10 transaction and also order the product. The transaction message is sent to the TPS 2.
             The TPS 2 transmits the product selection to the MD 70 and also transmits the
   payment authorisation after the TPS 2 has authorised the payment.
             If the product information relates to a menu in a restaurant, therefore, the payer
   selection is received by the MD 70, and will include an ID of the payer (e.g. table
15 number) and a list of products (e.g. food) that the payer has selected. The merchant can
   therefore fill the order and provide the food and drinks to the payer, at the same time
   being confident in the knowledge that they have already been paid.
             In this embodiment, the payee electronic device may provide a means for
   displaying the order, which in the illustrated embodiment in Figure 14 is a printer which
20 prints out the order 74 which can then be easily handled by merchant operatives in order
   to enable them to fill the order.
             The transaction processing system 2 incorporates an ordering system, which is
   arranged to process and forward orders (product selections) to payees.
             Product information can be provided in many ways, and can be utilised for
25 shopping in many aspects. Other examples of menus in restaurants include:
                       Products in shops/supermarkets may be provided with barcodes 71
   identifying the product and providing payment information to enable the PD 1 to
   process a payment transaction for the product 85. The PD 1 in this case could select
   more than one product, total the payment and undertake one transaction. The TPS 2
30 then advises the merchant device (in this case which may be an electronic cash register)
   that these products have been purchased.           Entry to a cash register is therefore
   automatically facilitated and may not require any operative associated with the store
   cash register. An appropriate system may be implemented to remove any security from

                                            -   19
   the product 85 so the payer can leave the store with the product. Receipts may be
   generated (as discussed above) to the PD 1.
             *         Product listings may be downloaded from a database 86 which
   effectively is a "shopping" database. The database may include a plurality of merchants
 5 with a plurality of product listings associated with the merchants. A payer, via the PD
   1, may request the menu of a particular merchant (perhaps by communicating a
   merchant ID) or may browse the listing and upload one or more menus.            They can
   subsequently shop and obtain and pay for the goods remotely or order and pay for the
   goods and attend at the merchant outlet to receive the goods. An appropriate receipt
10 may be provided to the PD 1 (e.g. a barcode appearing on the screen) that can be cross
   referenced at the merchant outlet to ensure that the goods are provided to the correct
   person.
             *         The database may provide, for example, takeaway menus for
   restaurant and cafes. An example of such a menu uploaded to a PD 1 is shown in
15 Figure 16. A payer may upload a menu to their PD 1 for a caf6 on the way to work, for
   example. They may enter an order for coffee, hamburger and cake and transmit the
   order via the TPS 2 to the caf6 and at the same time pay for the order. When they arrive
   at the caf6, their order may be ready. Note that menus may be provided from the
   "universal shopping database", from a system associated with the merchant e.g. a
20 merchants website, and may be uploaded to the phone via a network such as the Internet
   or provided from passive devices such as barcodes.
             As discussed above, the payee electronic device 70 may merely comprise a
   printer which is arranged to receive the transaction authorisation from the TPS 2 and
   printout an order (and printout a receipt 74). The major burden of payment processing
25 is undertaken by the TPS 2 and PD 1.
             Security as discussed in previous embodiments may be implemented
   e.g. digital signature confirmation of payment from the PD 1.
             Note that in one embodiment, the transaction processing system 2 may
   administer the database 86. In such an embodiment, the PD 1 may send a merchant ID
30 an optional product code or product family code to the TPS 2, which can access the
   database 86 and send a menu of items available back to the PD 1 including price and
   description. The payer selects an item via the PD 1 and then sends a list of items, store
   ID (an optionally a location within the store) to the TPS 2. The TPS then obtains

                                             - 20
   payment authorisation and sends the paid order to the store together with customer
   identification.    As discussed above, the customer identification may include a code
   which needs to be matched by a code provided by the PD 1 in some form (e.g. barcode).
             The merchant then provides the goods to the customer (e.g. food at the caf6,
 5 food home delivered, goods home delivered, goods available at "pick-up" point of the
   store). Again as discussed above, deactivation of secure ID tags may allow the person
   to simply leave the store with the goods.
             As discussed above, there are a number of ways in which information may be
   obtained by the electronic device of the payer in order to bill and order. For example,
10 optical reading (for example camera software), smartcard reader/RFID tab reader, etc
   may be used to gain details of the store and in some cases location within the store for
   example table number or payment point. Items can be selected either by scanning the
   items using RFID reader/optical reader, selecting by scroll and click from a menu of
   products/services downloaded to software on the phone, or manually entering product
15 codes.
             The following are five examples which demonstrate use of the system in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention for ordering and paying in a
   restaurant, caf6, etc.
20 Example 1 - Standard Full Service Restaurant
   1.        bill is produced and delivered with optical/elec readable caf6/table/amount;
   2.        customer taps/photo bill/wallet;
   2(a).     where amount is not on bill/wallet request is sent to kitchen for amount which
             is then sent to phone;
25 3.        customer adds any tip and presses ok - all is complete.
   Example 2 - Full Service Caf6
   1.        customer taps/photos table number (which is caf6/table number);
   2.        request is sent to kitchen (via system) for amount which is then sent back to
30           phone;
   3.        customer adds any tip and presses ok - all is complete.
   Example 3 - Order and Pay at Counter Caf6

                                           - 21
   1.     customer picks up table no from counter or sits a table with no already present;
   2.     customer taps/photos caf6/table number (this number also tells phone to enter
          order mode);
   3.     menu is sent to phone;
 5 4.     customer enters item numbers from menu/blackboard (mostly max two digits)
          and then presses ok. Alternately customer scrolls through items and clicks ok
          for items to order;
   5.     phone displays complete order as text with amount. Phone sends order to salt
          which is sent back phone as text - this orders and pays in one step!!;
10 4.     order slip prints in kitchen;
   5.     staff deliver order when prepared.
   Example 4 - Juice/Sandwich Bar/McDonalds Etc
   1.     customer photos/taps 'caf6 number;
15 2.     menu is sent to customers phones;
   3.     customer enters item numbers from menu/blackboard (mostly max two digits)
          and then presses ok. Alternately customer scrolls through items and clicks ok
          for items to order;
   4.     customer name sent and order sent for printing on kitchen slip;
20 5.     if customer name called when order is ready, if no answer phone can be
           'buzzed'.
   Example 5 - Modernised Full Service Restaurant Caf6
   1.     customer can select to order at table, with option to signal need for assistance
25        with menu. Staff may make routine to tell specials etc and when menu is
           'delivered' electronically 'wait for staff to tell specials' may be displayed.
   2.     Even when order is sent, phone returns to 'more order mode' allowing further
          orders of desert, coffee, wine etc. End meal option prompts for tip- sends
          payment and notifies restaurant so staff can say 'bye' etc.
30 3.     Order in advance capability by using system as above from takeaway menu or
          stored list, sending name, in place of table number - take away orders, phoned
          in, paid, and can notify purchaser when ready.

                                             - 22
             As discussed above, contactless smartcards may be used to provide or obtain
   information about the payment. Equally well contact-type devices could be used where
   a contact is touched by another contact in order to obtain the payment information.
   These devices are known.
 5           A further example of transaction flow where a payer is equipped with an
   electronic device capable of both initiating a transaction and making payment is as
   follows:
   Payees are provided with identification codes identifying the payee to the TPS. Unique
   identification codes are provided for each point of service the payee offers including
10 table numbers where the payee offers table service, takeaway food or other food service
   counters. Each payment station at the payee, is also allocated a unique identification
   code.
             The identification code of the payee may have been provided on:
             1.       a form of business card of the payee either in printed or electronic
15                    form;
             2.       on a printed menu or pamphlet of the payee;
             3.       at a table number identifier within the payee premises;
             4.      by being located at any other convenient position.
             Payer initiates transaction by nominating the payee unique identification code
20 by one of the following means:
             1.       selecting payee identification code from a list 'frequent payee's stored
                     by software either in the phone or stored on a remote server for the
                     use of this payee;
             2.       entering the payee identification code manually;
25           3.       entering the payee identification code automatically;
             3(a).    optically scanning the code via camera and decoding software linked
                      or incorporated in the device;
             3(b).   via 'bar code' scanner or similar optical reader linked to the device or
                      incorporated in the device;
30           3(c).    via RFID      reader or   contactless   smart card    reader linked   or
                      incorporated in the device;

                                              - 23
             3(d).    via RFID or contactless smart card used to initiate a device of the
                      payee to supply the identification code to the device via Bluetooth or
                       other wireless means.
             If the payee identification number detected or entered to the device of the payer
 5 identifies a payment station the required transaction precedes as described for a
   payment.
             If the identification number identifies any other point of service of the payee
   then it is assumed the payer wishes to now identify the goods and of services the payer
   wishes to obtain and pay for from the payee.
10           The device of the payee may then be presented with a menu of options
   available from the payee.
             The payer selects each item required by item identification code. These codes
   may be either:
              1.       entered manually using the device keyboard e.g. 5 <ok> where '5' is
15                     the code of the item desired;
             2.        selected from the menu for this payee provided to the device using
                       'scroll and select' methods well known on small devices such as
                       mobile phones;
             3(a).     optically scanning the code via camera and decoding software linked
20                     or incorporated in the device;
             3(b).    via 'bar code' scanner or similar optical reader linked to the device or
                       incorporated in the device;
             3(c).     via RFID     reader or    contactless smart card     reader  linked  or
                       incorporated in the device;
25           3(d).     via RFID or contactless smart card used to initiate a device of the
                      payee to supply the identification code to the device via Bluetooth or
                       other wireless means.
             At completion of the list the payee indicates the list is complete, for example
   by pressing <ok> without entering any code. The device of the payee may then display
30 the list of items selected for review by the payee and the cost of the items.
             he payee has the option at this point to vary the account to use for payment
   from the default account, to simply indicate to proceed (e.g. for example by pressing
   'ok') or to cancel.

                                               - 24
             The device of the payee may request a PIN or other biometric to confirm the
   transaction.
             The list of items is then sent either directly to equipment provided to the payee
   to receive this list, and in a preferred embodiment to print this list or indirectly via the
 5 TPS. Depending on the commercial arrangements of the payee, payment may be either
   already completed before the list is sent to the payee or reserved to be sent at a later
   point e.g. when the goods or services are received by the customer or when the
   customer elects to complete transactions with the payee.           In all cases the system
   provides for surety of payment by way of identifying the payer from the beginning.
10           The payer device of the payer may be configured to continually allow addition
   items to be ordered until the payer nominates. In this case payment may launched at
   this time and the payer may be provided with the option of varying the amount to be
   paid or of 'splitting the bill".
             Splitting the bill allows for additional payers to join the transaction at the
15 payee identification code with each payer indicating a number of shares (e.g. 1 person,
   2 people) of the total amount.
             Figure 17 illustrates a transaction process which utilises a pre-approval process
   in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Using a payer electronic
   device, in this embodiment a payer may pre-approve payment for transactions which
20 they have not yet undertaken.           This may be particularly useful for a number of
   transaction types or situations. For example, in card-not-present transactions, such as
   payments over the Internet. In accordance with this embodiment, a payer transmits a
   pre-approval message to TPS 2 including pre-approval instructions. The pre-approval
   instructions may include         details for identification of the transaction which       is
25 subsequently to take place.        The details may include, for example, a quantum of
   payment which is to be made.            The payer then executes the for example Internet
   transaction, but before the transaction payment is made the TPS 2 checks the
   pre-approval details against the transaction details. The TPS 2 can then confirm or deny
   the payment, depending on matching of the details.
30           In more detail, with reference to Figure 17, at Step 100 a payer determines a
   transaction they wish to carry out. The transaction may be an Internet transaction, for
   example. The payer may require purchase of an item from a merchant Internet website.

                                            - 25
   The payer will therefore be able to determine details of the transaction, such as a
   payment amount that the merchant might require to provide the goods/services on offer.
            At Step 101, the payer transmits pre-approval instructions to the TPS.     The
   pre-approval instructions include details of the transaction which the TPS can use to
 5 confirm or deny the subsequent transaction.       Details may include any details which
   enable identification and authorisation of the transaction.     For example, they may
   include a payment amount for the transaction.
            At Step 102, the TPS stores the pre-approval in a database. The database may
   include "payer" information identifying the payer, an "amount" information including
10 details of the amount of the payment for pre-authorisation, a "transaction number" and
   "time" which may include a time during which the transaction will take place. Once the
   "time" has expired, the TPS may not subsequently approve the transaction.
            At Step 103, the payer undertakes the transaction in the usual manner.     For
   example, where the transaction is an Internet transaction, the payer may enter credit
15 card details on a web page of the merchant website provided for receiving such details.
   The details will also include a payment which may be entered by the payer or
   automatically entered by the merchant. These transaction details are then provided to
   the TPS.     They may be provided in numerous ways.          For example, they may be
   provided by the usual transmission via the merchant system to the TPS.
20          At Step 104, the TPS checks the received transaction details against the
   pre-approval details in the database and then authorises (or not) the transaction,
   depending upon matching of the details. Confirmation (Step 105) may then be sent to
   the payer and payee. Confirmation to the payer may be by SMS message, for example.
            If during the approval process the TPS requires further confirmation, they may
25 engage in a method such as described above in relation to the earlier figures.
   Alternatively or additionally, they may engage in an SMS message exchange or even a
   phone call with a payer electronic device.
            As discussed above, this embodiment is particularly useful in providing an
   extra authorisation step for card-not-present transactions.
30          This embodiment may also be useful for card-present transactions as an added
   layer of security. Further, previous embodiments of the invention described above, rely
   on there being open communication channels between the electronic device of the payer
   and the TPS for the transaction to take place. If these communication channels are not

                                              - 26
   open at the time of the card-present transaction, (for example, the payer electronic
   device is a mobile phone which is out of range of an appropriate transmitter), then the
   transaction will not be authorised. This embodiment of the present invention allows the
   option for pre-approval following a failed transaction. If the failure occurs, the payer
 5 then finds a location where there is an open communication channel between their payer
   device and the TPS, and provides pre-approval details. They then return to implement
   the transaction at the location where there are no communication channels.               The
   transaction then proceeds as discussed above, the TPS comparing the pre-approval
   details with the details of the transaction, in order to enable the transaction, even though
10 the electronic device of the payer is out of communication.
             In the case of a failed transaction such as this, the system may already have
   been provided with information about the transaction from the merchant.              That is,
   because the transaction was attempted to be implemented but failed because the persons
   phone was out of contact, some transaction information will already have been provided
15 to the TPS. In this embodiment, the TPS may continue to try and contact the payer's
   device until the payer is in range. When the payer is in range and contact is established,
   the authoriser body may provide the transaction information to the payer device and the
   payer merely needs to confirm that the transaction information is correct.         The payer
   then subsequently returns to the merchant, engages in the transaction again, and this
20 time the transaction goes through because of the stored pre-authorisation that the payer
   entered by confirming the transaction details with the authoriser body.
             For card-not-present transactions, it is often the case that a merchant will
   provide transaction details to a financial institution and ask them to confirm that the
   payer has sufficient funds to pay, and freeze those funds, before issuing an order to
25 provide the goods to the payer. Only subsequent to that will the transaction go through.
   In one embodiment, this merchant pre-approval information may be used by the TPS to
   contact an electronic device associated with a payer and ask the payer to confirm that
   the transaction is authorised     The transaction may be identified by some transaction
   details such as the amount of payment. Once the payer has authorised the payment,
30 then the transaction can subsequently be processed. Details of the transaction may be
   held in the database until it actually occurs.
             A similar pre-approval system could be used for on-line payment from one
   person to another.

                                             - 27
            Another circumstance        where this embodiment is useful is for periodic
   payments. That is, payments that may occur monthly to a payer. A pre-approval may
   be stored in a database along with a transaction time, (for example the time of the
   month that the payment should take place) and the TPS will check the pre-approval
 5 details every time they receive a payment request from the payee.         This provides an
   extra level of security for periodic payments. It may also prevent payments being taken
   out more often than agreed.
            In a further embodiment, a passive device for providing information to a PD 1
   may include information about the application that the passive device is intended for.
10 For example, where the passive device is a barcode, it may include information relating
   to the application that is required to run on the PD device 1 in order to enable the
   barcode information to be processed.
            Referring to Figure 18, a number of different payment processing applications
   may be provided which are arranged to run on PD 1. For example, payment processing
15 application 150 may be arranged particularly for payment processing for parking
   metres. Another 151 may be arranged to process payments for bills and another 152
   restaurants. In yet a further embodiment, the applications may not relate to payment
   processing at all, but have other functions.    For example, one application may be a
   business card application enabling a PD 1 to upload and process business card
20 information.
            The advantage of this system is that having information about the barcode in
   the barcode itself enables the PD 1 to obtain the correct application or identify the
   application if it is already on the phone. Where it is necessary for the PD 1 to obtain the
   application, the barcode may provide location information e.g. location of an Internet
25 node, from which the application may be obtained.
            The passive device is not limited to barcode 153, although this is easily
   obtainable with conventional phone technology cameras 55, but could be any other type
   of passive device. Applications may be stored at a database accessible over a network
   such as the Internet.
30          Figure 19 illustrates potential elements of a transaction processing system 2.
   In one embodiment, the transaction processing system may comprise a gateway 160
   which may include systems for communicating with payer devices and payee devices
   and also systems for communicating with "back end" processors.             A conventional

                                             - 28
   transaction will normally require a merchant device communicating with a payment
   gateway    administered    by  a transaction    acquirer   161,  who   then  subsequently
   communicates with a financial institution 162 (which may be a issuing bank) to
   determine whether or not to authorise payment. The transaction acquirer 161 will then
 5 usually provide authorisation or denial to a payee device. The TPS of embodiments of
   the present invention may indeed merely be a transaction acquirer 161 with the
   appropriate systems, or may be a separate body running a gateway 160 and providing
   the information to the transaction acquirer from the merchant device or payer device.
   The gateway may also run a "universal shopping database" 163 which enables a payer
10 device to upload menus as discussed in relation to the above embodiments and also a
   transaction pre-approval database 164 which enables a payer to download pre-approvals
   via the gateway.
            The TPS may include organisations carrying out all of these functions
   separately or all of them together or various parts of them in any combination.
15          The transaction processing system may be implemented by appropriate
   software and hardware (usually server computers).
            Figure 20 is a block diagram of components for modified mobile telephone
   which may be used to implement a payer device in accordance with an embodiment of
   the present invention. Much of the functionality that is discussed in preceding sections
20 of this document may be implemented by software loaded in the form of applications
   121 onto the mobile phone. These applications will include the payment applications to
   enable appropriate messages to be prepared.       Via these applications, a mobile phone
   may be configured to recognise payment information. This is generally something that
   cannot be done by standard computing devices.
25          Consider the world wide web as a parallel. The world wide web constitutes a
   universal browsing data base.       The web comprises a system where a "request"
   combining a description of a "site" and additional location information within the site
   (known as a URL) can be used to retrieve information that is in a universal format
   allowing a computer arranged to work with the format to display text, graphics and
30 links and work with these text graphics and links.
            Currently it is possible for a person to shop over the web, but there is no
   system allowing a computer to shop over the web. The language of the web (html)
   specifies tags to allow a computer to recognize and display a heading, to recognize and

                                                 - 29
   display a link etc. but not to recognize an item code or price. The user of the computer
   must read the information on the screen and determine if an item description or price is
   present.
              The applications 121 may include an application enabling the payer device to
 5 recognise and work with payment                information.      As    discussed in proceeding
   embodiments, one proposed embodiment includes a "universal shopping database". For
   such a database, requests may specifically have codes identifying businesses offering
   products for sale and in place of resulting in a display page two type of requests are
   required:
10            1.         a request to obtain descriptions and prices of items for sale in a format
   facilitating automatic processing and in a universal format such that a computer can
   automatically create a table of prices and descriptions from every response. This request
   is known as a "menu request"; and
              2.         a universal request to buy an item, or collection of items as obtained
15 from a previous "menu request".
              An example of shopping on the web using conventional language of the web
   (html) would be as follows:
              Request = www.sampleshop.com/buypage.html
              Response =
20            <!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
              "http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">
              <html>
              <head>
              <meta http-equiv-"Content-Type" content-"text/html; charset=iso-8859- 1">
25            <title>Untitled Document</title>
              </head>
              <body>
              <h2>Welcome to the shop!</h2>
30            <p>Click <a href="buywidget.html">here</a> to buy a widget for $50!</p>
              <p>&nbsp;</p>
              </body>
              </html>

                                             - 30
             The web browsing program uses the tags to process the information that is
   relevant to web browsing e.g. that the text between the <h2> and </h2> tags is a
   heading.
             The fact that a "widget" has a price of $50 is not relevant to the web browser.
 5           By contrast, using the proposed "world-wide shop format" the request would
   look like:
             "store= 1234,menu=a"
10 and the response
             <itemID> 1567<itemDesc>Widget<price>5000
             The response needs to be read by a "shopping program" in place of a "web
15 browsing program". In this case how to display the information is up to the "shopping
   program". However the program is aware that an item is offered for sale at a price. If
   the user elects to buy the item, the program is aware an item is being purchased.
             This has the advantage that the security needed to make a purchase can be
   automatically applied by the program and a history of purchases can be kept
20 automatically.
             Other applications 121 enabling the phone to read barcodes (or other passive
   devices) may also be loaded.
             Further, firmware 122 may be implemented in order to further add to security
   as discussed above (and further exemplified later on in this description).
25           The adapted telephone includes a transmitter/receiver 119, a processor 118, a
   SIM card 116, a clock 123, RAM 117a, flash ROM 117b, an LCD display 133 and
   driver 130, keyboard 112, navigation key 110, camera 124, speaker 115, microphone
   116 and an A-D converter 114. It also includes an antenna 120. A wireless module 125
   (e.g. Bluetooth or general packet radio services (GEPRS) is included).
30           The hardware may also include a security module that is capable of identifying
   a user using a key encryption method.       The security module is arranged for a public
   cyrtosis and such is the system defined by Rivest, Shamir and Adleman (RSA) or
   electric curve encrypting methods. As the device is a mobile telephone it comprises a

                                            - 31
   SIM any variation of this embodiment, the SIM is arranged to function as a security
   module.
            The payer device may not include all the components described above for
   implementation of embodiments of the present invention. For some embodiments, for
 5 example, such as pre-approval, it is not necessary to have an access means or firmware.
   In other embodiments, in order to provide an extra layer of security, firmware only may
   be provided without an access device. Access device and firmware, provide four layers
   of security.
            To summarise, the system can be implemented by electronic devices associated
10 with payers, such as mobile phones, with essentially three levels of implementation:
             1.       Standard mobile phones, with or without a JAVA or another
   application to make it more user friendly. The basis of the system at this level is that
   without a secure mobile phone, security must be additional to existing security. At this
   level pre-approval approval for transactions can be implemented for example by simple
15 SMS messages.
            2.        A system "secured" mobile telephone. Utilising firmware protected
   from virus attacks to provide a signature system, software to handle incoming messages
   from the system. Signatures and PIN pads may be replaced by approval using the
   mobile phone for all transactions.
20          3.        Contact and contactless ID launching payments (access device) and
   the mobile phone use is the primary communications device for the transaction.
            Note that the payer electronic device may not comprise a modified mobile
   telephone. It could comprise any other computing device (preferably portable), such as
   a PDA.      It could even comprise a dedicated device specifically built as a payer
25 electronic device.
            The term "electronic device" should not be considered limited to devices that
   operate only or wholly by electronic means.           Any type of processing device
   (e.g. devices which may be implemented using optical transmission) may be utilised
   with the present invention as payer devices and/or payee devices.
30          Another embodiment of the present invention may be utilised to avoid a payer
   having to cue. The payer device registers a person (the payer) as on the cue via a
   system which sends a signal either direct to the phone or via a server. Alternatively,
   when the phone is placed on the cue the phone can periodically pole the cue the status

                                             - 32
   in order to inform the user of the current status. This can be used in any cue to advise a
   payer when an order is ready. Either cue cue-code, or an electronically read via contact
   list or other electronic means or optically read using camera (barcode). The system then
   provides continuous status updates of what number is at the head of the cue so that the
 5 phone can display the last few numbers served before you. The system comprises a cue
   database and means for advising the phone where they are in the cue. A payer device
   may therefore order ahead and advise the payer when the order is ready to be picked up.
             Further examples of embodiments of the present invention will now be
   described.
10           The improved payment system of this invention takes advantage of the fact that
   the majority of consumers in many markets are bringing their own computing device
   (usually a mobile telephone) to the point of sales. Low cost modifications to that device
   can enable a new system of payment that not only addresses the security problems with
   the current system, but also brings new many additional new features.
15           With this new system, merchants will advantageously have new improved
   ways of accepting transactions. Banks may be able to reduce or eliminate expensive
   charge backs and increase customer confidence.       Mobile telephone companies have a
   new "killer:" application for mobile phones.
             The system of embodiments of the invention utilises a modified consumer
20 electronic computer in the form of a mobile phone or pocket computer that has been
   'upgraded' to be able to operate in any location that has wireless coverage. The system
   proposes that all transactions include obtaining verification from the consumer (payer)
   using this upgraded device.       In this manner all transactions are verified by the
   consumer. Real time transactions such as at a point of sale, over the phone purchases or
25 Internet purchases can be verified at the time.
             Any background periodic payments such as bill payments would have an
   overall approval at the time setting up the payment and in this example allows a period
   of 24 hours for any subsequent additional approval if such is required to cover situation
   where the consumer is asleep or not contactable at the time of the transaction.
30           The payment system considers what changes are required to the mobile phone
   or pocket computer to allow secure and simple use for verification of payment
   transactions.

                                            - 33
              Additionally, consideration is given to changes to the rest of the payment
   system that are required for optimal operation and to take advantage of the opportunities
   presented when such a device is part of the system.
              The mobile phone or pocket computer is in this example capable of being
 5 contacted wirelessly in the majority of cases at the time when the consumer is making a
   purchase.
              Upgrading the device for optional operation would require the device be
   equipped with:
              *       a wireless data communication system such as GPRS or Bluetooth
10            e       software and/or firmware to facilitate the payment verification
              *       a security module capable of "signing" transactions using public key
   encryption methods
              *       a contactless smart card.   The device is also be capable of being
   programmed for the payment functionality either prior to supply to the consumer or in
15 the field.
             NOTE: Although the device is referred to as a PINpad, the use of a PIN is not
                      a necessity.
20            The contactless smart card is supplied to the consumer by a principle of the
   payment system.       Contactless smart cards are well known devices, often used in
   transport systems. The typical characteristics of the contactless smart card is that it is
   powered and "read" (actually communicated with) by a device referred to as a
   contactless smart card reader from a distance of zero to 10 centimetres.
25            In the preferred embodiment of the system, the consumer attaches his
   contactless smart card to the back of his mobile phone in such a way as to not interfere
   with any cameras, battery cover or other functionality of the phone (or pocket
   computer). It is not necessary for any electrical connection between the card and the
   consumer device. Physically attaching the card is for convenience and to keep the card
30 and device together.
   Initiating Payments in the System According to Embodiments

                                            - 34
   UpdatedPayment Points
             To initiate a payment at a payment point equipped for the new system, the
   consumer touches the pocket-PINpad to the specially marked reader at the point of
   payment to indicate his/her desire to pay using this system.
 5           The contactless smart card (as attached to the phone or pocket computer)
   passes details to the point of payment to enable further communication between the two
   devices at a greater distance. Now the that the point of payment has obtained details of
   how to contact the pocket-PINpad the consumer now need only remain within range of
   the wireless communication inbuilt into his pocket-PINpad.
10
   Legacy Payment Points
             An optional feature of system is the ability to offer the new payment system,
   even at payment points which have not been updated to accept the new system.
             To offer the system at these existing payment points- the consumer's bank
15 activates the system in the background.
             In this instance the consumer's regular credit card may be offered at the point
   of sale, and the transaction proceeds as a traditional transaction.   When the payment
   request reaches the consumers bank, the bank will send the payment approval request
   direct to the consumer's mobile phone. Once the consumer approves the transaction an
20 approval message is returned to the bank and the transaction is authorised all the way
   back to the merchant's terminal.
   The Improved Payment Transaction
             Having obtained from the card the details on what wireless systems are
25 available to use to contact the pocket-PINpad (e.g. Bluetooth or GPRS) and any
   information required to send information to the correct pocket-PINpad (e.g. Bluetooth
   ID for Bluetooth connection or in case of GPRS, the phone number).         The payment
   equipment sends the amount of the transaction to the pocket-PINpad and the store
   details for payment.
30           Some transactions will allow the consumer to vary the amount.        After any
   amount variation, the consumer optionally enters his pin or simply indicates "ok" and
   the pocket-PINpad electronically "signs" the transaction to indicate the consumers
   consent to the transaction.

                                              - 35
            The transaction is then sent to the bank. The bank processes the transaction
   and sends a record of the transaction back to both consumer and merchant device.
            Upon the merchant device receiving the record of the completed transaction the
   device signals to either the store salesperson or vending machine that payment is
 5 complete
   Retail, Point of Sale, CardBased Systems
            Most of us are familiar with credit and debit cards. Two types of cards are in
   use worldwide:
10          e         magnetic stripe based cards; and
            *         "smart cards" with computer chips.
            From an operational point of view payment with both card types is similar.
   The steps to payment are generally as follows:
            1.       Payment Steps - Card Given to Merchant
15                    e        The consumer offers the card to the merchant.
                      *        The merchant uses the card in a payment terminal.
                      *        Merchant enters payment details.
                      *        If a pin is required is entered on a pin entry device.
                      *        A Transaction is sent to the bank by the merchant's payment
20                             equipment.
                      *        Bank reply is indicated on the merchant payment device.
                      *        For Non-pin transactions a customer signature is obtained
                               and is retained by the merchant.
            In variation on the payment process in place of the consumer hand his card to
25 the merchant, the consumer enters his own card into a reader designed to be operated by
   the consumer. This variation attempts to reduce some security problems in the process,
   by reducing the risk of the merchant taking charge of the card and thus being able to
   copy the consumer's card.
            Generally speaking, the process has several problems.
30

                                             - 36
   Problem 1 - Equipment Variations
            With the payment equipment installed at point of payment, the merchant has
   full opportunity to learn how to operate the equipment, and to detect any tampering with
   the equipment should it occur.        The consumer however, is faced with potentially
 5 completely different equipment at each point of sale.          This causes the following
   problems:
            *         Self service payment points are slow and confusing to operate as
   consumers familiarise themselves with equipment
            *         Any steps of the transaction which for security reasons should be
10 performed by the consumer will face the barrier of the consumer dealing with
   unfamiliar equipment.      This results in merchants performing the steps such as card
   swipe and account selection, rather than explaining operation to the consumer.
            0         Substituted equipment can easily be used by any unscrupulous
   merchant to collect pin and card details.
15
   Problem 2 - Transaction Signing
            Various methods have been proposed to have the consumer "sign" the
   transaction to indicate willing participation.
            e         Written Signatures
20                    It would require unreasonable skill on the part of the merchant to
                      reliably detect problems in a written signature at the time of the
                      transaction. Filing and storing these written signatures also represents
                      an unreasonable burden on the merchant.        Presenting the card for
                      signature verification also forces the consumer to surrender control of
25                    his card.
            e        Electronic PINs Verified by the Bank (orFinancialInstitution)
                      PINs entered into the merchant equipment may be easily captured by
                      merchant substituted equipment. This can allow a serious attack on an
                      individuals finances.
30          e        Electronic PINs Verified by Smart Card

                                              - 37
                       By verifying the PIN with the consumers card, risks from stolen pins
                       can be greatly reduced. Unfortunately, this system is not in place in
                       sufficiently wide use.
 5 Problem 3 - Card Copying
             The ability of a card to be copied is a major flaw in the current card payment
   system. Magnetic stripe cards are easily copied on relatively inexpensive equipment.
             Whilst smart card transactions do in theory almost eliminate the problem of
   card copying, smart cards also contain magnetic details and many merchants around the
10 world can accept the magnetic details alone. Any time a card is presented the magnetic
   details can still be copied and used for fraudulent transactions around the world.
   Problem 4 - Repeat Transaction and Amount Frauds
             There are various ways in which a merchant may multiple charge a card or
15 charge an amount other then consumer has agreed. Small amounts may go unnoticed
   yet cost the consumer. Whilst large amounts will be detected.         When the statement
   arrives the merchant may have fled already. Whilst these are not the worst problems in
   the system today, closing down other loopholes while leaving these problems open
   would see a significant increase in these problem.
20
   Problem 5 - Tipping
             Many transactions allow an optional tip component.           The only practical
   solution to tips with cards used in merchant terminal is for the tip to be added after the
   bank has approved the transaction.
25           Having the consumer enter his tip onto the merchants machine is impractical.
             The provision for the merchant to add a tip to a completed transaction
   introduces weakness in the system. If a merchant was to incorrectly add a larger tip,
   what recourse does the consumer have? First, the consumer must detect the problem.
   Then there is the problematic issue of chasing the transaction and forcing the merchant
30 to produce the original signed receipt. Expensive and painful for all. Whilst systematic
   skimming by a merchant would eventually be discovered, many consumers would still
   be left with the extra expense after the problem is discovered (and potentially the
   problem staff member long gone!).

                                              - 38
   Internet Payment Systems
             Two types of Internet based payment are practical today.
             1.        Truly Secure Internet Payment
 5                     Truly secure Internet payment has been often proposed, but rarely
   implemented.     Firstly, secure Internet payment requires a smart card and consumers
   don't have the card.        The SET by MasterCard, Visa etc was one of the first well
   promoted systems using a smart card. Secondly, to be truly secure, an accessory to the
   PC is required to not only read the smart card, but to display the amount to be spent and
10 accept a PIN to sign the transaction. Such systems are well known (see FINREAD) for
   example.
                       The smart card is used to provide a secure, non-reusable, digital
   signature to the transaction.     Since worms and Viruses make the information on the
   main computer display open to alteration and capture by remote parties a separate
15 secure console is required for payment. The PIN pad on the console is used to instruct
   smart card to create the digital signature for the amount securely displayed on the
   console.
                       Such a transaction is as secure as possible today.           To create a
   transaction you need both the original smart card and PIN. Obtaining a copy of the card
20 is not feasible in reality.
                       The problem is, most people don't have FINREAD style attachments
   to their PC, nor the digital certificates on a smart card to use them. Just to secure a
   persons Internet transactions, the system is currently difficult to cost justify.
                       To get around this problem card associations such as American
25 Express and Visa offer varying alternatives.
                       American     Express's   Personal  Payments     solution    requires  the
   American Express cardholder to first log on to the American Express site, 'pre-allocate'
   the payment amount and received an id for this allocation. The cardholder can then use
   this id to purchase goods at Internet merchant sites linked to American Express Personal
30 Payments. This approach has the advantage of the card number not being used for the
   purchase transaction but is rather cumbersome for the cardholder to use and to date has
   not been popular for merchants to implement.

                                             - 39
                      In Visa International's 3D-Secure solution the cardholder still enters
   their card number but only when the issuer, rather than the merchant, requests it. The
   solution relies on well-established SSL/TLS technologies to secure the links between all
   the parties involved in the transaction. Due to the complexities involved this solution
 5 may only prove appealing for larger merchants.
             2.       Mainstream 'Secured' Internet Payment
                      Mainstream 'secure' Internet payment simply means that the payment
   details are securely transmitted over the Internet. Whilst intermediaries cannot intercept
10 the card number used, the Internet merchant themselves must be taken on trust to keep
   the number they receive secret, charge the correct amount and bill only on the occasion
   specified.    The merchant receiving those payment details cannot determine with
   certainty who sent the payment details.
                      Basically the consumer must take it on faith to trust the merchant, and
15 whilst the merchant add protection such as checking where goods delivered and having
   signatures for receipt of delivery it is expensive to the merchant.       Where goods are
   delivered electronically it becomes even more difficult to add any protection for the
   merchant, and as a result there is a high cost of fraud in such transactions.
20 Advantages of the System of the Above Described Embodiment
             If a new infrastructure for the system of this embodiment could be deployed
   tomorrow, security and transaction costs could be lowered. The new payment system
   delivers the benefits to consumers, merchants and banks to justify the rollout of a new
   system.
25
   Security
             The solution according to this example of the present invention delivers the
   highest level of fraud protection available today. Purchases have the same protection as
   a FINREAD style Internet transaction. It is as if the consumer is bringing an Internet
30 terminal and smart card reader to the point of sale.
             Whilst it is true that many of the current security problems could be greatly
   reduced by universal introduction of smart cards, this example goes further and

                                             -   40
   advantageously may even eradicate the problems still left behind by a move to smart
   cards.
             Further protection is delivered by:
             *        the security of being able to verify the amount of the purchase
 5 securely;
             *        protection from tip and amount variations;
             *        protection from multiple charging;
             *        elimination of risk of even magnetic card level duplication;
             *        ability to secure even 'legacy' transactions by allowing consumer
10 verification of transactions at points of sale not equipped for the new system;
             *        in all but legacy transactions, providing the merchant with proof of
   payment but not the consumers card details.
   Cost
15           By utilising equipment the consumer is already prepared to pay for (for
   example a mobile telephone), the infrastructure of the improved system is at far lower
   cost.
             The payment terminal can be considered to be "split into two" - part of the
   terminal being the mobile phone the consumer brings with him with the remaining
20 merchant component greatly simplified and cost reduced.
   This enables more payment points such as parking meters, vending machines and self
   service points in department stores.
   Speed
25           By enabling the consumer to share the workload of the transaction on a
   familiar device, transaction speed may be improved in all situations.         Self service
   payment enabled by the system will also allow consumers to pay immediately in place
   of queuing for service in many situations.
             Not only can checkouts move faster, but customers in restaurants can bypass
30 the entire extra step of having their card taken away for processing.
   Flexibility

                                            -  41
             The new system brings a whole new level of possibilities to electronic
   payment.
             New facilities include:
 5 DelegatedPayment
             At time of payment, the consumer may nominate a parent or friend to make the
   payment on their behalf, as long as the nominated person is "only a phone call" away.
   This allows children other loved ones to have access to an emergency fund - but ensure
   the parent of other emergency fund supplier to monitor the use of such funds.
10
   Split Payment
             Ever been to a restaurant and had the situation of an account which should be
   split two three or even more ways? Resorting back to cash can seem the only solution
   currently. Although most restaurants will split an account two ways for payment by
15 card, even then it is a messy solution. Each additional card or other complication makes
   communicating the wishes of the various card holders more difficult.
             Each diner equipped with their own personal PINpad is able to make their own
   contribution with no explanation needing to be communicated to the restaurant at all.
20 Amount Variation
             The amount presented to the consumer can not only be verified securely by the
   consumer - it can also be altered with parameters specified. This is particularly useful
   for tipping.     The current system for tipping typically works only for credit card
   transactions. The transaction - without tip - is approved by the bank. After reading the
25 tip amount written on the receipt by the consumer the merchant then processes a
   variation to the original transaction.
             This is problematic for both consumer and merchant. For the merchant, the
   original transaction must be retrieved (in a busy restaurant several receipts could be out
   at tables at any one time) and the new amount entered.
30 For the consumer, no verification is possible of the actual final amount entered by the
   merchant and error due to a misread by the merchant, overcharging or any other factor
   is difficult to detect.

                                             - 42
             With the present embodiment the consumer can directly increase the amount to
   be paid on his own device - and the correct amount is processed in the first instance.
   No re-entry by the merchant is required. A source of error and doubt is completely
   eliminated.
 5
   Account Selection
             A number of banking accounts can be linked to the payer device and selected
   as an alternative to the default account. The accounts need not be from the same bank.
             The system of this embodiment also advantageously offers more convenience.
10
   Self Service Payments
             Self service payment points can avoid queues and offer goods and services at
   locations where it is otherwise impossible.     Historically, paying at these self service
   payment points is either by coins (and sometimes banknotes). Where credit/debit cards
15 are accepted either the customer or the service provider must pay for the cost of
   expensive equipment and telephone charges.
             Paying by this system advantageously reduces these problems.         Acceptance
   equipment is low cost and phone calls are not required.       Best of all, the consumer is
   using the same payment device (in his own phone) instead of having to learn how to use
20 new payment equipment at each point of payment. Reading instructions and difficult
   card readers become a thing of the past.
   Choice ofAccounts at all Payment Points
             Current systems often restrict account types because of logistics. For example,
25 entry of a pin may be problematic at a restaurant.     With the payer device system this
   problem is eliminated as the enter pin request is delivered to the consumer at the table.
   No instructions need be given to the cashier nor any restriction on PIN entry.
             The scenario of the merchant asking the account and then reaching across to
   save the consumer selecting the account on an unfamiliar device becomes a thing of the
30 past.

                                             -   43
   Bill Verification
             When bank statements arrive, the mobile phone is able to instantly reconcile
   the account balance of all electronic transactions verified through the system.        This
   eliminates the worry of "am I being overcharged"             or the alternative chore of
 5 reconciliation for the consumer.
   Receipt Filing
             With all transactions electronically signed, no paper receipts are required. This
   simplifies expense claims, tax records and other accounting for the consumer.
10           Eliminating the need to keep paper signatures as proof of the transaction is
   huge bonus for merchants.
   UniversalApplication
             The same verification system can be used for all payments - telephone orders,
15 Internet, existing legacy payment systems at the point of sale as well as new improved
   low cost payment points.
             The card issuer and the mobile operator need updated systems. Once this is in
   place each cardholder who participates can see immediate benefits. There is not need to
   wait for updated devices to reach merchants before the system is of value.
20
   Equipment
   Consumer Device
             For the system the consumer device to be converted to a payer device requires
   a form of wireless communication (and in some embodiments does not require this).
25 Currently three systems of wireless communication are in widespread use - 802.11,
   Bluetooth and GSM+GPRS/CDMA.
             In this example each device is deemed suitable to be equipped with a form of
   wireless communication which is capable of communication between the consumer at
   the majority of purchases points and the network. Examples today would be GSM with
30 GPRS or CDMA mobile phone data communication. As widespread wireless protocols
   in use change over time so could the wireless system to be used.
             This document discusses a system based on GSM+GPRS mobile phone
   optionally equipped in addition with Bluetooth communication.

                                               -  44
   New Software and Firmware
              The software on the device in this embodiment should contain specific features
   not found in current phones.
 5 Specifically:
              0         The ability to receive a payment request command over any of the
   wireless systems enabled for payment in the device and pass this request to the SIM
   module.
              *         The ability to display payment request messages from the SIM
10 module and pass data entry back to the SIM module.
              *         The ability to display a pin entry message in a manner that cannot be
   replicated by any applications loaded onto the phone.
              *         Presentation of the answer to the payment approval message directly
   to the SIM.
15            e         The answer to the payment approval message is not able to be sent to
   the SIM by any application software
             Note that another processing module may be used instead of a SIM, but a SIM
   is preferable for the mobile phone embodiment.
              From these requirements it follows that the payment approval message display
20 and response should be implemented by Firmware.            Preventing an application from
   generating the answer to the payment approval message ensures that no software worm
   or virus can be used to cause the phone (or other consumer device) to approve payments
   the consumer has not seen.
              Re-loadable    software may be used to implement any functions of the
25 supplementary functions to payment approval screen provided that upon completion of
   that function the payment approval screen is guaranteed to show the amount which will
   be sent in the message to the SIM as the amount the consumer is approving to pay.
   Contactless Smart Card
30            Contactless smart cards are well known.       The preferred embodiment of the
   system equips each device with a contactless smart card in order to facilitate easy
   payment at a new style of payment point. The contactless smart card additionally can
   facilitate registration of the consumer device with the financial institution.

                                              -   45
             It is desirable to use contactless smart cards of as small size as possible whilst
   still allowing for any necessary antennae within the card. It is also desirable to use a
   flexible rather than rigid material for the card to enable the card to adhere to the
   contours of the case of the consumer device.
 5           It is desired that the card be capable of securely and uniquely recording the
   presence of the card at the point of sale. This requires the card contain an encryption
   key which is used to sign a message from the contactless payment reader.
             The contactless     smart card     should also be    capable   of conveying the
   information necessary for communication with the payer device associated with the
10 card.    Such information would include the Bluetooth ID of any Bluetooth module
   incorporated into the consumer device as well as the phone number to enable
   communication with the wireless module of the device.
             The contactless card is also capable of conveying to a reader the capabilities
   (e.g. Bluetooth - no Bluetooth, GSM-GPRS or CDMA etc) of the matching consumer
15 device.
             The contactless card is also capable of sending the public keys of the matching
   security module (see below) to a reader as used by financial institutions in the case the
   public 'initialisation' key.
20 SIM or Security Module
             To be certain the transaction has reached the correct device it is desirable to
   able to encrypt data using keys the financial institution can verify as belonging to the
   cardholder. Such systems are well known and have been proposed in almost all smart
   card based payment systems.         In the case of GSM mobile telephones, as security
25 module is already present. All that is required is that the SIM in the phone is capable of
   meeting the requirements specified here- or is replaced with a SIM that is capable of
   meeting these requirements.
             In the preferred embodiment the SIM in the GSM phone are equipped with
   secure storage for encryption keys for financial transactions and for the encryption
30 algorithms to match. Well known encryption standards such as RSA or elliptical curve
   are suitable.    Such systems make use of a pair of keys with one key "private" (held
   secretly and securely in the consumer card) and one key public.        Data encrypted with
   one key can be decrypted with the other. Simply put- and one can send data to the card

                                             -  46
   by encrypting the data with the private key with confidence that only the card with the
   matching private key can be used to decrypt the data.          Conversely, any data which
   correctly decrypts with the public key has originated from the card with the private key.
            To allow financial institutions to install the keys for their cardholder onto an
 5 already issued SIM card a public/private "initialisation" key pair can be used.        The
   private key held in the SIM card and the public key in the matching contactless smart
   card.
   Bank Authorisation System
10          Each bank that issues debit or credit cards must ensure a system is maintained
   with a record of each cardholders' balance and approved minimum balance.               This
   system is updated to send the payment approval message to the cardholders' payer
   device when the system is enabled.
            The balance verification system formats the message and sends the message
15 together with details by the system on the identification of the payer device.
            The card holder may require a method of enabling and disabling the system to
   allow for travel outside the area where his payer device can communicate.
   Mobile Phone Communication Gateway
20          A new communications system receives payment request from the card issuers
   and sends the requests to the payer devices. The system could consist of one integrated
   gateway system for all transaction types or individual gateway systems for one or two
   of the transactions, or could be added as new functions to existing gateways.          The
   gateway should be capable of three transaction types:
25          e         initiating payment authorisation requests to send to payer devices;
            *         responding to payments received from payer devices;
            *         passing transactions that have been signed by payer devices at the
   point of sale through to the appropriate financial institution.
            In the first two of these cases the gateway will act as the interface between the
30 financial system and the payer device. The issuing bank will still need to approve the
   transaction.    In the third case the financial institution that receives the approved
   transaction will typically be the acquiring bank.

                                             -  47
            Note the traditional roles of issuers, acquirers and card associations (e.g. Visa)
   can be reviewed upon implementation of the preferred solution.
   Cards
 5           For a long time to come there will be legacy payment points requiring a
   existing style magnetic card to initiate a transaction. Lower transaction cost for new
   style transaction points will encourage their addition to points of sale over time but the
   system still gives full protection at current card based points of sale without any
   updating being required.
10           It is possible to issue new cards which are not linked to a specific bank
   account.
   Payment Devices
             Existing electronic payment acceptance devices can work with the system
15 unchanged- but do not take advantage of the new facilities offered.
             Some devices already take instructions from the bank on a card by card basis
   as to whether to request a PIN or signature. It is recommended to link the system to an
   existing signature card - or a new payment card issued for the purpose - rather than a
   pin based card.
20           Even minor alterations to configuration or programming will streamline
   transactions made using payer devices. Further benefits can be obtained when using the
   system with reprogrammed devices and even further benefits with a new generation of
   payment devices.
             A payer device in one embodiment may have three types of wireless
25 communication for flexible operation:
             *        Extremely short range (approximately        10cm maximum) wireless
   communication used to initiate transactions.
             0        Local area wireless communication to communicate with the point of
   payment (or payment terminal) throughout the transaction.
30           e        Global range wireless communication to enable communication
   between the payer device and the banks that consumer holds account with, regardless of
   where the consumer travels globally, or at least in as many locations as possible.

                                           -   48
             The payment system is capable of operation in a version which does not
   require all the above described system to be implemented.       The proposal is to allow
   current mobile phones or pocket computers with wireless telephone modems to easily
   and at low cost be converted into a workable payer device.
 5
   Single Type of Wireless Communication Only
             One example payer device includes only one type of wireless communication.
   Either local area to allow communication with the point of payment or long range to
   allow direct communication with the financial institution where accounts are held
10 would be technically sufficient.
             Such devices could effectively communicate with the financial institution
   through the point of payment or to the point of payment through the financial
   institution.
             These devices would be effectively suitable for securing legacy transactions,
15 since no convenient means of initiating a transaction is incorporated.
   Short + Local Wireless PINpads
             A device with short range and local wireless communication could both initiate
   transactions and execute transactions at any point of payment equipped that is equipped
20 with all three types of wireless communication.
   Short + Long Range Wireless PayerDevices
             Long range wireless devices, using either dedicated data networks or mobile
   telephone networks, are in widespread use and can easily have short range wireless
25 communication added.
   Complete System PayerDevices
             Take any mobile phone which is also equipped with Bluetooth (or has the
   ability to be equipped with Bluetooth), add the necessary firmware and package with an
30 appropriate SIM and contactless smart card and you have a versatile payer device.
   Since mobile phone system operators have the ability to request phone makers to add
   firmware and access to SIMs and contactless smartcards - deployment of these devices
   requires only a motivated mobile telephone system operator.

                                            -  49
   Integrated Complete System PayerDevices
            As an upgrade to the 'complete system' payer device, short range wireless
   could be integrated into payer devices at production time. This would enable the payer
 5 device to not only send data at short range, but also to receive data. Such capability
   would make direct, person to person payment far more flexible.
   Payment Transaction Types
   Legacy Transactions UtilisingPayer Devices
10          A legacy transaction using a payer device proceeds as a normal credit card
   transaction until the transaction approval centre for the legacy card issuing organisation
   receives the transaction. At that point the payment approval request is sent to the payer
   device.
   Once the payer device receives the transaction, the consumer may select his account of
15 choice where offered and either approve or reject the transaction.
            The response of the consumer is sent back through the gateway to the approval
   centre - which in turn processes the transaction and sends the result back through the
   legacy system. The result of the transaction is also send through the gateway to the
   payer device for filing by the consumer and as an electronic consumer receipt.
20 Short + Long Range Wireless PayerDevice Transactions
            Where the point of payment is specifically equipped for payer device
   transactions, the consumer indicates his willingness to pay by touching his smart card to
   the point of payment, instead of using a legacy credit or debit card.       The merchant
   should have already entered the amount to be paid (or scale of payment for variable
25 amount transactions) into the point of payment equipment.
            The transaction request for approval is assembled by the point of payment
   equipment should be sent directly to the payer device gateway.        The payer device is
   again used by the consumer to modify and or approve the transaction and the result is
   sent now from the payer device back to the gateway which sends information from the
30 point of payment together with the answer from the payer device to the financial
   transaction approval network. The result of the transaction is sent back both to the point
   of payment and to the payer device to provide an electronic receipt for both devices.

                                            -   50
   Local Wireless Transactionsfor Complete Payer Devices
             For some foreseeable time, points of payment which currently accept legacy
   card payments will continue to do so.           When also equipped for payer device
   transactions, these points of payment can deliver faster transactions for payer device
 5 transactions than for legacy transactions, with less effort by sales staff. The ability to
   process legacy transactions requires the point of payment to be equipped with a
   communication link to a financial transaction approval centre.
             When the point of payment equipped for payer devices detects a device with
   local wireless capability, the point of payment can send the payment approval request
10 directly to the payer device over the local Network.
   When the payer device receives the payment approval request over the local network it
   first allows the consumer to alter and or approve the payment approval request. The
   payer device then checks the request to determine whether to send the transaction
   directly through to the payer device gateway - or back to the point of payment through
15 the local wireless connection to the point of payment. In this case the transaction is sent
   back to the point of payment.
             The point of payment then sends the transaction through the same network
   used for approving legacy transactions. Upon receiving the response to the transaction,
   the point of payment relays the transaction result to the payer device to provide a an
20 electronic receipt to the consumer.
   Long Range Wireless Transactionsfor Complete PayerDevices
             At locations where electronic transactions have not be previously been offered,
   or in some cases even where legacy transactions are accepted, it may be desirable to
25 provide a low cost payment acceptance point that has no long range (no modem or
   telephone for example) communication of its own.
             In this situation, the payer device can be used to send the transaction for
   processing and to receive the result.
             Local wireless transactions for complete payer devices with the exception that
30 the payer device is responsible for sending the transaction for approval by my means of
   the payer device gateway and the payer device sends the electronic record or the
   transaction to the point of payment, both to provide a record of the transaction and to
   allow the merchant to recognise payment by the consumer.

                                            -  51
   System Security
            Where does the security of the system come from? The SIM module (or other
   designated system processor) securely stores the keys to encrypt data and create digital
 5 signatures using well know techniques such as RSA. Each payment approval, sent from
   the phone is thus guaranteed to have been generated using that SIM module.
            This leaves the only two possibilities for fraudulently generating a transaction
   the consumer does not agree to being 1) use of the phone or SIM by someone other than
   the consumer, or 2) the payer device being tampered with so as to produce
10 authorisations to transactions without the consumer being aware of such occurrence.
   PINs and Other Biometrics - ProtectingPayer Device Theft
            A PIN is merely one form of biometric. It exists in the memory of the user and
   by recalling this memory the user identifies himself as the person with this memory.
15 Any form of biometric e.g. PIN, fingerprint, eye-scan, face recognition can be used by
   the system.
            In a preferred embodiment, whatever biometric is in use (PIN, fingerprint,
   eye-scan etc) will be requested every time a preset amount has been reached, or for any
   transaction over that preset amount. For example, consider a preset amount of $100.
20 Transactions less than $100 may occur until collectively these sequential transactions
   total in excess of $100.    The first transaction bringing the total of consecutive non
   biometric transactions will require biometric verification.
        TRANSACTION              BIOMENTRIC                          REASON
           AMOUNT                 REQUIRED
             $300                     Yes             Transaction greater than preset limit.
              $10                     No               Only $10 spent since last biometric.
              $50                     No               Only $60 spent since last biometric.
              $60                     Yes             With this transaction $120 spent since
                                                                  last biometric.
              $30                     No               Only 30 spent since last biometric.
             $150                     Yes             Transaction greater than preset limit.
              $80                     No              Only (including this transaction) $80
                                                            spent since last biometric.

                                             -  52
             An important point is that the biometric should only be used by the SIM. The
   SIM verifies the biometric internally before proceeding to sign the transaction as being
   approved by the consumer. Whatever biometric is used should NOT be sent outside the
 5 payer device. Should a PIN be used this PIN should not match any PIN currently in use
   at ATMs etc. Whatever biometric is used is of no value to anyone who does not have
   access to the payer device.
             The use of the biometric (PIN or otherwise) is to limit the amount that can be
   spent by anyone gaining access to the payer device without authorisation (although
10 biometric use could be applied in other ways).
   FirmwareProtection
             The principle of the system according to this example is that the user of the
   payer device must be certain that the data displayed on signature screen and accepted by
15 the user is the only data that can be signed using the payer device.
             This can be achieved through firmware in the device.           The firmware is
   arranged such that a single firmware function:
             1.       displays the information to the user,
             2.       accepts the "OK" and PIN or other biometric, and
20           3.       sends the data to the security module (usually a SIM) as displayed to
   the user.
             Application software is prevented from performing Step 3 above without the
   exact same information as sent for encryption or digital signing being displayed to the
   user.
25           The firmware protects against software attacks to the payer device itself.
   Through the various wireless interfaces the device may be open to virus and worm
   attacks.   The design is to ensure any interface supplied for application software for
   sending data to the SIM specifically prevents the "payment approval" message being
   sent to the SIM. Only the payment approval display routine can be capable of sending
30 this response. This ensures the consumer sees, and physically presses at the minimum
   some form of "OK" button to approve each transaction.
             The filter blocks application software directly issuing the "generate signature"
   command to the security module or SIM.

                                            -  53
   Setting Standards
            There are many possible configurations of the system. For any deployment, a
   requirement is to determine which wireless and encryption standards are most
 5 applicable in the marketplace where the system is to be deployed. A problem caused by
   multiple standards globally is that when travelling to an area where, for example their
   own payer device cannot communicate due to differing standards, consumers face the
   option of 1) obtaining a payer device for the region they are travelling to, or 2) they may
   need to temporarily disable the system.
10          Currently GSM is the global system of choice however, for example, in Japan
   the iMode system would be the logical choice.
   System Deployment
            To initially deploy a system, at least one bank (or other card issuer) and one
15 mobile telephone system operator cooperates to deploy the system.
   Role of the Mobile Phone System Operator
            *         The mobile phone operator      sets standards and require at least one
   mobile phone supplier to incorporate the firmware as described.
20          e         The mobile phone operator then promotes the package of modified
   phone, SIM and matching contactless smartcards through retailers who sell phones and
   subscriptions to the service of the mobile phone operator.
            0         The producer of SIMs to the mobile phone would have all knowledge
   to produce appropriate SIMs and contactless cards from the descriptions provided in
25 this document. The network operator conveys these instructions to the SIM supplier
   and order the SIMs.
            *         The mobile phone operator must provide the computer system (either
   directly or through a gateway operator) to receive payment approval requests and send
   them to their subscribers.
30
   Role of the CardIssuer
            *         The card issuer promotes the service to cardholders.

                                             -  54
              *        The retail branches of the issuer provides a service to initialise payer
   devices with the details of the cards held by the consumer.
   Alternate Model Where the Phone OperatorBecomes a CardIssuer
 5            The mobile phone operator or an independent gateway utilised by the mobile
   phone operator could become a card issuer, without needing to provide debit or credit
   facilities. The cards issued would simply link to existing debit or credit account of the
   consumer, but would have the ability to link to accounts from multiple issuers.
              The cards issued would have authorisation requests routed back to the gateway,
10 thus saving card issuers from any new infrastructure.
              In many countries the mobile phone operator also offers services and
   infrastructure to the card processing centres.
   PayerDevice Software
15            The following functions should be added to standard mobile phone or other
   pocket computer device to give rise to one embodiment of the present invention. For
   illustration details on implementation are limited to the preferred embodiment of a GSM
   mobile phone.
20 The Payment Screen
              The payment screen should have a unique identifying characteristic that cannot
   be imitated by any new application software loaded into the device. For example the
   "pay line" having a solid red background and the firmware from the phone preventing a
   similar solid red banner being drawn by any application. This measure is to stop virus
25 programs learning card PINs.
   Software Components
              The following components of software are required in the Payer device
   embodiment.
30            e        Payment request message from network.
              *        Payment request message to SIM.
              *        Payment request Data Entry Screen.
              *        Payment request Screen data message to SIM.

                                           -  55
            *        Payment request response from SIM.
            *        Payment request response from SIM relay to network.
            *        Payment receipt response from Network.
            *        Payment Screen Options Menu.
 5          e        Payments Options Menu
   Payment Request Message
            A simple method for a GSM mobile phone would be to receive the payment
   request as a specially tagged SMS message.
10          The payment request message may simply be passed directly to the SIM
   module.
   Phone InitiatedPayment
            The payer device could be used to initiate payment to a specific person or
15 business. A simple way of selecting the person to pay would be a phone number.
            This method of payment is prone to error - with the possibility of paying the
   wrong person. For this reason it is suggested (but not necessary) for the number paid to
   be an existing entry in the phone book stored on the phone.
            Entry of an amount as one the payment screen
20
   Optionsfrom the Payment Screen
            *        Select account.
            *        Relay.
25 Payment Menu from Device Idle
            *        Default account.
            *        View Transactions.
            *        Initiate payment.
30 Payment Device Types and Technology
   Adaptive System for Using 'Paired'Communications

                                             -  56
             Improved Local Wireless Communication is proposed for local wireless
   communication.      Local wireless communication such as Bluetooth can occur either
   between devices already known to each other or between devices not preset to talk to
   each other. It is preferable where possible to restrict communication to devices which
 5 have been previously identified to each other in a process know as 'pairing'.         Each
   device has a unique network ID to enable pairing.
             Since payer devices are used at points of payment at a variety of locations and
   often on an ad hoc basis, it would appear initially that paired communication is not
   possible.
10           This can be overcome using the short range communication used to initiate a
   transaction. For each payer device a 'phantom' point of payment Bluetooth device with
   a unique identity can be issued.       The payer device can be paired to this point of
   payment. However in place of an actual point of payment being provided as the actual
   paired device- the network identifier is simply reserved and recorded on the contactless
15 smart card. When an actual point of payment detects the smart card for a payer device,
   the local wireless communications of point of payment reads the required network
   identifier from the contactless card and adopts that identity. In this manner the point of
   payment becomes the paired device for the payer device.
20 New Payment Points
   Restaurant Wallet
             An electronic point of payment can be made in the form of a restaurant wallet
   as used to present the amount payable to customers or in the form of payment receptacle
25 as in normal use in the restaurant. Currently, customers either insert their credit card or
   the required cash as payment. Where card payment is offered, restaurant staff must go
   through additional steps and the customer must wait.         Both staff and customer are
   inconvenienced.    By using a payer device and having an electronic point of payment
   inbuilt into the payment receptacle, customers may make their own payment with out
30 waiting and may spilt payment amongst themselves without the complication of
   requiring assistance from restaurant staff. Both customer and restaurant staff benefit.
             Further details of the system according to the exemplary embodiment:

                                             -  57
   Sample Screens
   Pay: Meter
 5    $2.20
   for 20 mins
10 Pay: Food
    $50:70
    15%tip
15
   pay:
   DJs books
   $29.95
20
           *------- PIN ENTRY
   Sample Messages
25
   Payment Request
             This message is to be sent to the phone from the network:
30

                                             -   58
   Fields
               FIELD                                         USE
              Amount             The amount to be paid - or, for unit payments - the unit
                                                            price.
            Payto text           Text representation of the business or person to be paid.
              Payto #                Phone number of the business or person to be paid.
            Unit Text            Up to 4 characters specifying the unit for unit payments.
          Minimum unit                  Payment must match a number of these units.
      Flag: allow increase
      Flag: allow decrease
   Amount:                              the amount requested to be paid (or where relevant
                                        the unit price).
 5 Payto:   text representation of the person or organisation to be paid.
   Payto #: phone number of the person or organisation to be paid.
   Unit text:                           up to three characters displaying the unit of the item
                                        to be purchased (blank if not relevant).
   Minimum unit:                        0 if not relevant.
10 Flag-vary up amount?:                are tips relevant and can the amount be increased.
   Flag-vary down amount?:              can the amount be decreased.
   Payment TransactionFlows
15 Existing Magnetic Card Transaction
                 STEP                      EQUIPMENT                         NOTES
              Card Swipe
           Amount Entry
          Txn Send to bank
     Bank launches verification                                       See below "payment
                                                                       verification step"

                                            - 59
   Payment Verification Step
               STEP                        EQUIPMENT                     NOTES
            Features of the system according to the exemplary embodiment:
 5          1.      Payment verification using wireless device carried by consumer.
            2.      Payment     verification using   secured wireless device carried by
   consumer.
            3.      Payment verification for payments made in person using secured
   wireless device carried by consumer.
10          4.      Payment     verification using   secured wireless device carried by
   consumer with payment options available from device.
   Contactless CardInitiation
            *       Payment verification using wireless device carried by consumer.
15          *       Payment     verification using   secured wireless device carried by
   consumer.
            *        Payment verification for payments made in person using secured
   wireless device carried by consumer.
            *        Payment verification using      secured wireless device carried by
20 consumer with payment options available from device.
   Wireless Device Carriedby Consumerfor Secure Verification of TransactionsInitiated
   by:
            *        Contactless smart card.
25          *        Magnetic style credit debit card.

                                            -   60
             *        Smart card credit debit card.
             *        Combined magnetic/smart card debit/credit card.
   Payment Features
 5           e        Pin entry mode on phone screen.
             *        Protected Payment command to SIM.
             *        Payment screen with % and unit options.
   Gateway
10           *        Communications Gateway Communications performing any of the
   three tasks described in Mobile Phone Communication Gateway.
             *        Adaptive system for Bluetooth or other 'paired' communications
   system.
             *        Point of payment with interface for payer device.
15           e        the mobile phone by entry of a specific phone number followed by
   touch tones.
             *        Payment by mobile phone using voice communication to identify the
   payment point to be paid.
             Modifications and variations as would be apparent to a skilled addressee are
20 deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
   Xx

                                              -  61
   CLAIMS
   1.        A method of making a payment, comprising the steps of:
             providing information associated with a payer, the information being provided
 5 in a manner so that a payee can access the information,
             receiving information about the payment by a payer electronic device
   associated with the payer, and
             giving instructions for making the payment using the electronic device
   associated with the payer;
10           wherein the information about the payment includes product information in the
   form of at least one product identifier of a product available from the payee, and the
   method includes the step of the payer electronic device selecting at least one product
   identifier;
             wherein the information about the payment further includes payment
15 information including a payment amount for the at least one selected product and a
   payment identity of the payee;
             wherein the step of giving instructions for making the payment includes the
   step of the payer electronic device providing the payment amount, payment identity of
   the payee and the selected product identifier to a transaction processing system; the
20 transaction processing system being arranged to access an account of the payer and
   make payment to the payee for the payment amount, and
             transmitting the product identifier to the payee, whereby the payee receives
   information about the product ordered and paid for by the payer electronic device to
   enable provision of the product to the payer.
25 2.        A method in accordance with Claim 1, wherein the step of transmitting the
   product identifier is carried out by the transaction processing system.
   3.        A method in accordance with Claim 2, comprising the further step of the
   transaction processing system transmitting confirmation that payment has been made to
   the payee.
30 4.        A method in accordance with any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3, wherein the payer
   electronic device includes a display, and further comprising the step of the payer
   electronic device being arranged to display on the display payment information.

                                             -  62
   5.        A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, including the
   further step of the payer electronic device varying the payment amount.
   6.        A method in accordance with Claim 5, wherein the payer electronic device
   includes a user input means and the step of varying the payment amount includes the
 5 step of the user inputting via the input means a varied payment amount.
   7.        A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   product information is included in a listing including the at least one product identifier.
   8.        A method in accordance with Claim 7, wherein the listing includes a plurality
   of the product identifiers comprising a menu of products provided by the payee,
10 whereby the payer electronic device may select one or more of the products.
   9.        A method in accordance with Claim 7 of Claim 8, wherein the listing is made
   available via a network for a payer to upload to the payer electronic device.
   10.       A method in accordance with Claim 9, wherein the network is a wide area
   network, such as the Internet.
15 11.       A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the step
   of receiving information about the payment by the payer electronic device includes the
   step of receiving information about the payment from a passive device.
   12.       A method in accordance with Claim 11, wherein the passive device is an
   optically readable device.
20 13.       A method in accordance with Claim 12, wherein the optically readable device
   is a barcode.
   14.       A method in accordance with Claims 11, 12 or 13, wherein the passive device
   is provided as part of an invoice.
   15.       A method in accordance with Claim 11, 12 or 13, wherein the passive device is
25 provided with a product for sale.
   16.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 11 to 15, wherein the
   information about the payment includes instructions for utilising an application to
   control the payer electronic device to provide instructions for making the payment.
   17.       A method in accordance with Claim 16, wherein the information about the
30 payment includes location information identifying a location where a payer electronic
   device can obtain the application for uploading to the payer electronic device.

                                             -   63
   18.       A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the step
   of receiving information about the payment comprises receiving the information from a
   payee electronic device associated with the payee.
   19.       A method in accordance with Claim 18, wherein the information associated
 5 with the payer includes payer electronic device information enabling the payee
   electronic device to communicate with the payer electronic device.
   20.       A method in accordance with Claim 19, wherein the payer electronic device
   information is provided by an access device associated with the payer electronic device.
   21.       A method in accordance with Claim 20, wherein the access device is a smart
10 card.
   22.       A method in accordance with Claim 20 or Claim 21, wherein the access device
   is integral with the payer electronic device.
   23.       A method     in accordance with any one of Claims 19 to 22, wherein
   communication between the payee electronic device and the payer electronic device is
15 via a local wireless network.
   24.       A method     in accordance with any one of Claims 19 to 23, wherein
   communication between the payer and payee electronic device is via a telephone
   network.
   25.       A method in accordance with Claim 24, wherein the telephone network
20 includes a mobile telephone network.
   26.       A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   instructions for making the payment are transmitted directly from the payer electronic
   device to the transaction processing system.
   27.       A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
25 instructions for making the payment are transmitted to the transaction processing
   system via a payee electronic device.
   28.       A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   instructions for making the payment include a confirmation transmitted to a transaction
   processing system that the payment should proceed.
30 29.       A method     in accordance     with Claim 28,  comprising the     step of the
   confirmation being generated by the payer electronic device.

                                            -  64
   30.       A method in accordance with Claim 29, wherein the payer electronic device
   includes input means, and the step of generating the confirmation includes the step of
   requiring user input via the input means to enable the confirmation to be generated.
   31.       A method in accordance with Claim 30, wherein the step of requiring is
 5 implemented by an application provided by the payer electronic device.
   32.       A method      in  accordance   with  Claim 31,    wherein   the   application is
   implemented within firmware in the payer electronic device.
   33.       A method in accordance with Claims 30, 31 or 32, wherein the payer electronic
   device includes a display, and the step of requiring requires the user to acknowledge via
10 the input means information about the payment appearing on the display.
   34.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 28 to Claim 33, wherein the
   confirmation includes encoded information.
   35.       A method in accordance with Claim 34, wherein the encoded information is a
   digital signature.
15 36.       A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   information associated with the payer includes an account identifier of an account of the
   payer.
   37.       A method in accordance with Claim 36, wherein the account identifier is
   provided by the payer providing a card, such as a credit card.
20 38.       A method in accordance with Claim 37, wherein the account identifier is part
   of an account number, and wherein a transaction processing system stores the other part
   of the account number.
   39.       A method in accordance with Claim 38, wherein the part account number is
   provided by the payer electronic device in encrypted form.
25 40.       A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   information about the payment includes one or more applications including instructions
   for controlling the payer electronic device to provide instructions for making the
   payment.
   41.       A method in accordance with Claim 40, including the further step of uploading
30 to the payer electronic device the one or more applications from a network.
   42.       A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   information associated with the payer is a confirmation that payment has occurred.

                                             -  65
   43.       A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   information associated with the payer includes an identity of the payer.
   44.       A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the step
   of giving instructions for making the payment include the payer electronic device
 5 pre-approving the payment before the payment transaction takes place, by providing
   pre-approval instructions to the transaction processing system.
   45.       A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   payer electronic device is a portable device.
   46.       A method in accordance with Claim 45, wherein the portable device is a
10 palm-type computer.
   47.       A method in accordance with Claim 45 or 46, wherein the portable device is a
   mobile telephone.
   48.       A method of processing a payment transaction, including the steps of a
   transaction processing system receiving instructions for making a payment from a payer
15 electronic device associated with a payer, the transaction processing system authorising
   payment, and the transaction processing system providing confirmation that the
   payment has been authorised,         including the further   step of receiving product
   information from the payer electronic device, the product information identifying at
   least one product of a payee, for which payment is to be made, uploading the product
20 information to a payee so that the payee can provide the product, and including the step
   of uploading a product listing to the payer electronic device, the product listing
   including at least one product of a payee that may be selected by the payer electronic
   device.
   49.       A method in accordance with Claim 48, wherein the step of receiving
25 instructions includes the step of receiving a message from a payer electronic device, the
   message including payment information.
   50.       A method in accordance with Claim 49, wherein the payment information
   includes a payment amount and a payment identity of the payee.
   51.       A method in accordance with Claims 48, 49 or 50, wherein the step of
30 providing payment confirmation includes the step of the transaction processing system
   transmitting the payment confirmation to a payee electronic device.

                                            -  66
   52.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 48 to 51, wherein the step of
   providing payment confirmation includes the step of the transaction processing system
   transmitting the payment confirmation to the payer electronic device.
   53.       A method in accordance with Claim 52, wherein the payer electronic device
 5 includes a display, and the step of providing the payment confirmation includes
   providing the confirmation to appear on the display of the payer electronic device.
   54.       A method in accordance with Claim 53, wherein the payment confirmation as
   appearing on the display is in machine readable form, and can be read by a payee
   electronic device.
10 55.       A method in accordance with Claim 54, wherein the machine readable form is
   bar code.
   56.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 48 to 55, wherein the step of
   the transaction processing system transmitting the product information to the payee
   includes the step of transmitting the product information to a payee electronic device.
15 57.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 48 to 56, including the step of
   providing a database of product listings for uploading to payer electronic devices, each
   product listing including at least one product of a respective payee that may be selected
   by a payer electronic device.
   58.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 48 to 57, including the step of
20 uploading to the payer electronic device an application including instructions for
   controlling the payer electronic device to provide the instructions for making the
   payment.
   59.       A method in accordance with Claim 58, including the step of providing a
   database including applications having instructions to control payer electronic devices
25 to provide instructions for making a payment, for uploading to the payer electronic
   devices.
   60.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 48 to 59, wherein the
   instructions for making a payment include a confirmation from the payer electronic
   device that the payment should proceed.
30 61.       A method in accordance with Claim 60, wherein the confirmation is an
   encoded message.
   62.       A method in accordance with Claim 61, wherein the encoded message is a
   digital signature.

                                            -  67
   63.       A method according to Claim 60, 61 or 62, wherein a generation of the
   confirmation by the payer electronic device requires actuation of an input means of the
   payer electronic device by a user.
   64.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 60 to 63, including the step of
 5 the transaction processing system transmitting a request to the payer electronic device
   for a confirmation.
   65.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 48 to 64, wherein the
   instructions for making the payment include payer account information.
   66.       A method in accordance with Claim 65, where the payer account information
10 includes a portion of an account identifier, and wherein the transaction processing
   system stores the rest of the account identifier so that the payer account can be
   identified when the transaction processing system receives the portion from the payer
   electronic device.
   67.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 48 to 66, wherein the
15 instructions for making a payment include a pre-approval instruction, pre-approving a
   payment which is subsequently to take place, and including the step of the transaction
   processing system storing the pre-approving instructions.
   68.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 48 to 67, wherein the
   instructions for making a payment are received directly from a transmission from a
20 payer electronic device.
   69.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 48 to 68, wherein the
   instructions for making a payment are received indirectly via a payee electronic device
   from a transmission to the payee electronic device by the payer electronic device.
   70.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 48 to 69, wherein the payer
25 electronic device is a portable device.
   71.       A method in accordance with Claim 70, wherein the portable device is a
   palm-type computer.
   72.       A method in accordance with Claim 70 or 71, wherein the portable device is a
   mobile telephone.
30 73.       An apparatus for facilitating a payment transaction from a payer to a payee,
   comprising a payer electronic device associated with the payer, the payer electronic
   device including payment information receiving means for receiving information about
   the payment, and payment instructing means for giving instructions for making the

                                              -  68
   payment; wherein the information about the payment includes product information in
   the form of at least one product identifier of a product available from the payee, and the
   payer electronic device is arranged to enable selection of at least one product identifier;
            wherein the      information   about the     payment   further includes payment
 5 information including a payment amount for the at least one selected product and a
   payment identity of the payee;
            wherein the payment instructing means is arranged to provide the payment
   amount, payment identity of the payee and the selected product identifier to a
   transaction processing system, the transaction processing system being arranged to
10 access an account of the payer and make payment to the payee for the payment amount,
   and the payer electronic device includes means for transmitting the product identifier to
   the payee, whereby the payee receives information about the product ordered and paid
   for by the payer electronic device to enable provision of the product to the payer.
   74.      An apparatus in accordance with Claim 73, wherein transmission of the
15 product identifier is carried out via the transaction processing system.
   75.      An apparatus in accordance with Claim 2, wherein the transaction processing
   system is arranged to transmit confirmation that payment has been made to the payee.
   76.      An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 73 to 75, wherein the
   payer electronic    device includes a display and is arranged to display payment
20 information.
   77.      An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 73 to 76, wherein the
   payer electronic device includes an input means enabling the user to vary the payment
   amount.
   78.      An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 73 to 77, wherein the
25 product information is in the form of a listing including a plurality of product identifiers
   from which the payer electronic device may select.
   79.      An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 73 to 77, wherein the
   payer electronic device is arranged to upload the product information from a database
   where the product information is available.
30 80.      An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 73 to 79, wherein the
   payer electronic device includes reading means arranged to read information about the
   payment from a passive device.

                                             -  69
   81.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 80, wherein the passive device is an
   optically readable device and the reading means includes an optical reader.
   82.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 81, wherein the optically readable
   device is a barcode.
 5 83.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 81 or Claim 82, wherein the reading
   means includes a camera.
   84.       An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 81 to 83, wherein the
   reading means is arranged to identify a passive device as providing information about
   the payment.
10 85.       An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 73 to 84, the payer
   electronic device further including communication means arranged to communicate
   with a payee electronic device.
   86.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 85, wherein the communication means
   includes means enabling communication via a local wireless network.
15 87.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 85 or Claim 86, the payer electronic
   device including an access device arranged to provide information to the payee
   electronic device to enable communication between the payee electronic device and the
   payer electronic device.
   88.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 87, wherein the access device is a
20 smart card.
   89.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 87 or Claim 88, wherein the access
   device is integral with the payer electronic device.
   90.       An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 85 to 89, wherein the
   payer electronic device includes transmission means for transmitting the instructions for
25 making the payment to the transaction processing system, the transmission means being
   arranged to transmit the instructions via the payee electronic device.
   91.       An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 73 to 90, the payer
   electronic device comprising remote transmission means arranged to transmit the
   instructions for making the payment to a transaction processing system.
30 92.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 91, wherein the remote transmission
   means is a transmitter arranged to transmit the signals via a mobile telephone network.
   93.       An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 73 to 92, wherein the
   instructions for making the payment include a confirmation transmitted to the

                                              -  70
   transaction processing system that the payment should proceed, and the payment
   instructing means includes confirmation           generation means for generating the
   confirmation.
   94.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 93, wherein the payer electronic device
 5 includes input means, and user input via the input means is required for the
   confirmation generation means to generate the confirmation.
   95.       An apparatus      in accordance with Claim 94, wherein the confirmation
   generation means is implemented partly or wholly by firm ware.
   96.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 94 or Claim 95, wherein the payer
10 electronic device includes a display and the confirmation generation means requires the
   user to acknowledge via the input means information about the payment appearing on
   the display, in order for it to generate a confirmation.
   97.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 94, 95 or 96, wherein the confirmation
   generation means is arranged to generate a confirmation in the form of encoded
15 information.
   98.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 97, wherein the encoded information is
   a digital signature.
   99.       An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 73 to 98, the payer
   electronic device including storage means arranged to store at least one application
20 including instructions for controlling the payment instructing means to give instructions
   for making the payment.
   100.      An apparatus in accordance with Claim 99, the payer electronic device being
   arranged to upload the at least one application from a database.
   101.      An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 73 to 100, wherein the
25 instructions for making the payment include an account identifier, identifying an
   account of the payer.
   102.      An apparatus in accordance with Claim 101, wherein the account identifier
   includes a portion of an account number, and wherein the transaction processing system
   stores the other portion of the account number.
30 103.      An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 73 to 102, wherein the
   instructions for making the payment includes a pre-approval, authorising payment for a
   subsequent payment transaction.

                                             -  71
   104.     A transaction processing system for processing a payment transaction,
   including payment instruction receiving means arranged to receive instructions for
   making a payment from a payer electronic device associated with a payer, to a payee,
   the transaction processing system being arranged to authorise payment and to provide
 5 confirmation that the payment has been authorised, the transaction processing system
   being arranged to receive product information from the payer electronic device, the
   product information identifying at least one product of a payee, for which payment is to
   be made, and the transaction processing system being arranged to upload the product
   information to the payee so that the payee can provide the product, the transaction
10 processing system being arranged to upload a product listing to the payer electronic
   device, the product listing including at least one product of a payee that may be selected
   by the payer electronic device.
   105.     An apparatus     in accordance     with Claim     104, wherein the transaction
   processing system is arranged to transmit payment confirmation to the payer electronic
15 device.
   106.     An apparatus in accordance with Claim 105, wherein the payer electronic
   device includes a display, and the payment confirmation is arranged to appear on the
   display of the payer electronic device.
   107.     A system in accordance with Claim 106, wherein the payment confirmation
20 appears on the display in machine readable form, and can be read a payee electronic
   device.
   108.     A system in accordance with Claim 107, wherein the machine readable form is
   barcode.
   109.     A system in accordance with any one of Claims 104 to 108, further including a
25 database of product listings and being arranged to enable uploading of product listings
   to payer electronic devices, each product listing including at least one product of
   respective payee that may be selected by a payer electronic device.
   110.     A system in accordance with any one of Claims 104 to 109, further including a
   database including one or more applications including instructions to control payer
30 electronic devices to provide instructions for making the payment for uploading to the
   payer electronic devices.

                                              -   72
   111.       A system in accordance with any one of Claims 104 to 110, wherein the
   instructions for making the payment including a confirmation from the payer electronic
   device that the payment should proceed.
   112.       A system in accordance with Claim 111, wherein the confirmation is in an
 5 encoded form and the system includes means for decoding the instructions.
   113.       A system in accordance with Claim 112, wherein the encoded form is a digital
   signature.
   114.       A system in accordance with any one of Claims 104 to 109, wherein the
   instructions for making the payment include payer account information, including a
10 portion of an account identifier, and the system further comprising a database storing
   the rest of the account identifier so that the payer account can be identified.
   115.       A system in accordance with any one of Claims 104 to 114, further including a
   pre-approval database storing pre-approval instructions, pre-approving a payment which
   is subsequently to take place.
15 116.       An apparatus for facilitating processing of a transaction, comprising a payee
   electronic device arranged for communication with a transaction processing system in
   accordance with any one of Claims 104 to 115.
   117.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 116 being arranged to receive product
   information identifying at least one product.
20 118.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 117, comprising means for printing the
   product listing.
   119.       A system comprising an apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 73 to
   103, a system in accordance with any one of Claims 104 to 115 and an apparatus in
   accordance with any one of Claims 116 to 118.
25 120.       A passive device being arranged to be readable by a payer electronic device for
   facilitating a payment transaction; wherein the passive device includes a product list,
   listing at least one product for selection by the payer electronic device.
   121.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 120, wherein the passive device is a
   bar code.
30 122.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 120 or Claim 121, wherein the passive
   device includes payment information for enabling the payer electronic device to process
   a payment.

                                               - 73
   123.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 120 or 121, wherein the passive device
   is associated with a product and provides information enabling a payer electronic device
   to facilitate a transaction for payment of the product.
   124.       An apparatus in accordance with Claim 123, wherein the passive device is
 5 affixed to the product or the product packaging.
   125.       An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 120 to 122, wherein the
   passive device is part of a menu in a restaurant or caf6.
   126.       An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 120 to 125, wherein the
   passive device includes information identifying an application for the payer electronic
10 device to utilise in order to facilitate a payment transaction.
   127.       A computer program including instructions for controlling a computing device
   to implement a method in accordance with any one of Claims I to 47.
   128.       A computer readable medium providing a computer program in accordance
   with Claim 127.
15 129.       A computer program providing instructions for controlling a computing device
   to implement a method in accordance with any one of Claims 48 to 72.
   130.       A computer readable medium providing a computer program in accordance
   with Claim 129.
   131.       A method of launching software applications, comprising the step of utilising a
20 passive device      including   information   identifying   the location of the  software
   application, uploading the information to a user device, and utilising the user device to
   obtain the application from a remote location.
   132.       A method or organising a queue, comprising the steps of providing information
   to a user mobile phone which indicates the position of a user within the queue and
25 updating the information as the users position in the queue moves.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
