ABSTRACT OF VARIABLE POSITION DYNAMOMETER
ABSTRACT
The variable position dynamometer (FIG 1) comprises of four main aspects; The
collar (FIG 2), the arm (FIG 11), the locking mechanism (FIG 11) and the force pads
(FIG 12). The collar is designed to allow the whole assembly to be positioned at
varying heights. This allows a large range of different tests to be performed as well
as different sized individuals. The collar can slide up and down the post (FIG 8, 9).
The collar can be fixed in place to restrict any movement about the post. The collar is
designed so that it can be removed from the post and rotated about the post as to
provide the variable position dynamometer more test angles (FIG 13, 14, 15, 16).
The collar is connected to the arm, which houses the load cell assembly (FIG 2). The
arm can pivot independently of the collar and rotate through an arc (FIG 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8) . This capability provides additional testing angles for the user. When the arm has
a force applied through it via the force pads, the load cell assembly can convert this
force to a quantifiable value for testing and recording purposes. The arm can be
fixed in position via the locking mechanism that is connected to the collar. When the
arm is locked no movement about its pivot point can occur. The force pads provide
the variable position dynamometer a concentrated.

   2
     FIG1
13
        4      6
                 F11
         FIG 2

     Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There are six pages of description only

SEQUENCE LISTING OF VARIABLE POSITION DYNAMOMETER
The order in which the patent was intended to be read:
   1) Background of invention
   2) Statement of Invention
   3) Brief Description of Drawings
   4) Detailed Description of Drawings
   5) Abstract
   6) Claims
   7) Drawings

DESCRIPTION OF VARIABLE POSITION DYNAMOMETER
BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
The field of the invention is variable position dynamometer. The variable position
dynamometers purpose is to measure, test and train individuals in an isometric
manner. Isometric testing is a fundamental aspect of physiotherapy as well as
strength and condition. The basis of the design is to create a functional multipurpose
dynamometer that can be manipulated to accurately test in several different
positions. The variable position dynamometer allows an individual to test a desired
load to accurately record the force output generated from the test subject. The collar
is designed for fast repositioning and testing. The collar can be rotated about the
post it is positioned on to provide a more accurate measuring angle for specific
testing. The arm is designed for quick repositioning, so the user can transition
between tests. The variable position dynamometer works in parallel with the post
and bed it is paired with. This aspect, being the post and bed, of the invention may
vary due to various model and necessity whereas the variable position dynamometer
assembly will not.
STATEMENT OF INVENTION
The variable position dynamometer comprises of four main aspects; The collar, the
arm, the locking mechanism and the force pads. The collar is designed to allow the
whole assembly to be positioned at varying heights. This allows a large range of
different tests to be performed as well as different sized individuals. The collar can
be fixed in place to restrict any movement about the post. The collar is designed so
that it can be removed from the post and rotated about the post as to provide the
variable position dynamometer more test angles. The collar is connected to the arm,
which houses the load cell assembly. The arm can pivot independently of the collar
and rotate through an arc. This capability provides additional testing angles for the

user. When the arm has a force applied through it via the force pads, the load cell
assembly can convert this force to a quantifiable value for testing and recording
purposes. The arm can be fixed in position via the locking mechanism that is
connected to the collar. When the arm is locked no movement about its pivot point
can occur. The force pads provide the variable position dynamometer a concentrated
area for force to be applied, as to provide a consistent and reliable force application
point.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
   FIG 1 - shows the complete variable position dynamometer system
   FIG 2 - shows the raw load cell connected to the collar assembly
   FIG 3 - is a perspective of the assembly with the arm at 0 degrees
   FIG 4 - is a perspective of the assembly with the arm at 45 degrees
   FIG 5 - is a perspective of the assembly with the arm at 90 degrees
   FIG 6 - is a perspective of the assembly with the arm at -45 degrees
   FIG 7 - is a perspective of the assembly with the arm at -90 degreea
   FIG 8 - is a perspective of the assembly with the arm at a high position on the
   post
   FIG 9 - is a perspective of the assembly with the arm at a low position on the
   post
   FIG 10 - shows the rear of the collar
   FIG 11 - is an isometric angle perspective of the assembly on the post
   FIG 12 - is a front perspective of the assembly
   FIG 13 - is a top view perspective of the variable position dynamometer
   FIG 14 - is a top view perspective of the variable position dynamometer
   FIG 15 - is a top view perspective of the variable position dynamometer
   FIG 16 - is a top view perspective of the variable position dynamometer

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
FIG 1 - Shows the variable position dynamometer attached to the post 2. The post is
fixed to a bed 1 that a test subject may lie on. The bed 1 will have varying depending
on the needs of the variable position dynamometer. The bed 1 may be constructed
by different material such as aluminium, steel, plastic and fibreglass. The post 2 is
positioned and fixed so that it will not flex or move when load is applied through the
force pads 9 & 10.
FIG 2 - Depicts the load cell 4 fitted to a shaft 5. The load cell 4 can pivot via shaft 5.
The load cell 4 has a connection bar 13 that is used to transfer force applied via the
force pads 9 &10 to the load cell 4. The collar 6 shown in FIG 2 is used to attach the
variable position dynamometer to the post 2. The rear of the collar 11 is open so that
when it is tightened by bolts 7 & 8 it tightens to fix itself onto the post 2.
FIG 3 - Shows the arm 14 which is an assembly that houses load cell 4 at an angle
of 0 degrees. The arm 14 pivots about shaft 5. The arm 14 can be fixed in position
by placing a pin into the collar locking holes 12. The collar locking holes 12 paired
with the arm locking holes 15 and a pin form the locking assembly. The collar locking
holes 12 occur in a different interval to the arm locking holes 15 to give more variety
of lockable angles for the arm 14.
FIG 4 - Shows the arm 14 fixed at a 45 degree angle. The locking assembly will fix
the arm in this position by fitting a pin to the collar locking holes 12 and the arm
locking holes 15. The number of angles the arm can be fixed in by the locking
assembly is depended on the number of collar locking holes 12 and the number of
arm locking holes 15. This number is dependant on the model and needs of the
variable position dynamometer. FIG 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7 are visual examples of the rotation
of arm 14. The variable position dynamometer is not limited to the angles
represented in FIG 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7.
FIG 5 - Shows the arm 14 fixed at a 90 degree angle. The locking assembly will fix
the arm in this position by fitting a pin to the collar locking holes 12 and the arm
locking holes 15.

FIG 6 - Shows the arm 14 fixed at a - 45 degree angle. The locking assembly will fix
the arm in this position by fitting a pin to the collar locking holes 12 and the arm
locking holes 15.
FIG 7 - Shows the arm 14 fixed at a - 90 degree angle. The locking assembly will fix
the arm in this position by fitting a pin to the collar locking holes 12 and the arm
locking holes 15.
FIG 8 - Depicts the variable position dynamometer fixed to post 2. The variable
position dynamometer can move up and down post 2 and then be fixed in position by
tightening bolts 7 & 8 that connect to the rear of the collar 11. The variable position
dynamometer can be moved into a position on post 2 with arm 14 in any position.
The arm 14 does not influence the position on the post 2.
FIG 9 - Depicts the variable position dynamometer fixed to post 2. The variable
position dynamometer can move up and down post 2 and then be fixed in position by
tightening bolts 7 & 8 that connect to the rear of the collar 11. FIG 9 shows the
variable position dynamometer in a lower position on the post 2 in comparison to FIG
8. The comparison from FIG 9 and FIG 8 does not show the true vertical range of the
variable position dynamometer. The variable position dynamometer may be fixed at
any point along the post 2.
FIG 10 - Shows the rear of the collar 11. It shows the gap of the rear of the collar 11
and how the bolts 7 & 8 can squash the gap together to fix the variable position
dynamometer into place. The bolts 7 & 8 reduce the space of the rear of the collar 11
and squash the collar 6 onto the post 2.
FIG 11 - Depicts an isometric view of the whole variable position dynamometer
assembly with the arm 14 fixed at an angle of 0 degrees to the post 2.
FIG 12 - Shows a front view of the variable position dynamometer. When yhe force
pads 9 & 10 have a force applied to them they transfer this force down the column
13 into the load cell 4. The load cell 4 then converts this force into a quantifiable data
that can be utilized. The force pads 9 & 10 can be repositioned on the column 13 to
give a more applicable surface for a subject to test.
FIG 13 - Shows an aerial view of the variable position dynamometer. The variable
position dynamometer may be removed from the post 2 and repositioned on the post

2 to face a different direction. FIG 13,14,15 & 16 show a full rotation of the variable
position dynamometer about the post 2. The bolts 7 & 8 can be loosened and the
collar 6 will loosen and the whole variable position dynamometer assembly may be
removed from the post 2. To reinstall the variable position dynamometer it can be
slid on at the original or a different angle and then fixed into position by tightening
bolts 7 & 8.
FIG 14 - Shows an aerial view of the variable position dynamometer fixed in a
different position to FIG 13
FIG 15 - Shows an aerial view of the variable position dynamometer fixed in a
different position to FIG 13
FIG 16 - Shows an aerial view of the variable position dynamometer fixed in a
different position to FIG 13

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

CLAIMS OF VARIABLE POSITION DYNAMOMETER
CLAIMS:
Claim 1: A variable position dynamometer assembly made for measuring force that
comprises of:
    -   A moving arm
    -   A load cell that converts force into quantifiable data
    -   A force application attachment
    -   A lockable pin system
    -   A lockable collar
Claim 2: The moving arm from claim 1 houses a load cell assembly that moves into
a desired position.
Claim 3: The lockable pin system from claim 1 can allow the arm to be fixed in a
number of positions, restricting any movement angularly.
Claim 4: The Lockable collar from claim 1 allows the assembly to travel vertically on
a fixed post. The collar may be tightened to restrict all movement vertically.
Claim 5: The variable position dynamometer assembly can be rotated around the
vertical post to provide more testing positions.

                                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     13
                                                       2
        5        4        FIG 1
FIG 2
                                      1
                 6
            11

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG 4   FIG 3

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG 6   FIG 5

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG 8   FIG 7

                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             7
                 FIG 9
FIG 10
         8

<removed-date>       14
<removed-apn>
                                15
                           12
                       FIG 11
              9                      10
                       FIG 12

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
         FIG 13
FIG 14

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG 16
         FIG 15

