                                ABSTRACT
A method for creating a network connection between a network connected
application and a server, the method comprising obtaining a network request from
the network application; transmitting to the network application information
corresponding to the network request, wherein the information includes at least one
instruction for transmitting a subsequent request to the remote server; obtaining a
subsequent network request from the network application corresponding to the at
least one instruction; and establishing a persistent connection with the network
application.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

DESCRIPTION
A system and a method are provided for unrestricted, symmetric remote writing. A client application
sends a request to a server application. The server application treats the request and sends a response
including an instruction to contact the server's application. The client application processes the
response and uses the provided instructions to establish a persistent connection to the server's
application. The invention can be used for a wide variety of functions.
In accordance with one aspect of this invention, a method is provided to establish a network
connection between a networked application and a server. This method includes a server that receives
a network request from the network application. The server sends to the network application
information that corresponds to the network request. This information includes at least one
instruction for sending a subsequent request to the remote server. The server then receives a
subsequent network request from the network application that corresponds to at least one instruction
and establishes a persistent connection to the network application.
In accordance with another aspect of this invention, a method of creating a network connection
between a Web browser and a server is provided. This method includes a server that receives a
connection request from the browser. The server transfers to the browser information that
corresponds to the network request. This information includes information to transfer a subsequent
connection request to the remote server. The server receives a subsequent connection request from
the browser that corresponds to the information for sending a subsequent connection request to the
remote server. In addition, the server establishes a persistent connection to the browser.
In accordance with a further aspect of this invention, a system is provided to produce a persistent
network connection between which networked Web browser (Web browser) and any remote server
(server). The system includes a Web browser that sends a dynamically generated HTTP GET request to
the server. The browser contains a first executable code loaded in the browser containing the browser
script code and a second executable code loaded in the browser that generates and sends the server's
connection requests. The attribute for the second executable code is dynamically set. The system also
contains a Server that receives and processes the network request from the browser. The server
generates a response that returns to the second executable code and at least one instruction to
process the Web browser request. In addition, the server's response also includes an instruction that
allows the browser to send a subsequent request to the server.

   Editorial Note
     <removed-apn>
There are three pages of claims only

CLAIMS
1. A method for creating a network connection between a network connected application and a
server, the method comprising:
obtaining a network request from the network application;
transmitting to the network application information corresponding to the network request, wherein the
information includes at least one instruction for transmitting a subsequent request to
the remote server;
obtaining a subsequent network request from the network application corresponding to the at least
one instruction; and
establishing a persistent connection with the network application.
         2. The method under claim 1, in which a network request is transferred from a protocol that is
         selected from a group of TCP/IP Protocols (TCP, (UDP, and so on), VoIP protocols (RTP, RTCP,
         and so on), cellular protocols (GPRS, CDMA, WAP, and so on) and common protocols (Frame
         Relay, ATM, and so forth).
         3. The method under clause 2, in which a permanent network connection is not limited to one
         network domain or lP address.
         4. The method under clause 3, in which the network application does not require specialized
         client technology.
         5. The method under claim 4, which provides additional permanent archiving of any data and
         queries that are passed between the network application and the server.
         6. The method under claim 5, which includes the addition of multiple independent network
         connections between the network application and the server.
         7. The method under clause 6, in which the network application manages a permanent
         network connection.
         8. The method under clause 6, in which the server manages a permanent network connection.
         9. Method under claim 1, in which the network includes a LAN (local area network).
         10. The method under claim 1, in which the network includes a global network (WAN).
         11. The method under claim 1, in which the network request is a simple HTTP GET request.
         12. The method under claim 1, in which data and instructions are sent only from the network
         application to the server.
         13. The method under claim 1, in which data and instructions are sent only from the server to
         the network application.
14. A method for creating a network connection between a browser and a server, the method
comprising:
obtaining a connection request from the browser;
transmitting to the browser information corresponding to the network request, wherein the information
includes information for transmitting a subsequent connection request to the remote server;
obtaining a subsequent connection request from the browser corresponding to the information for
transmitting a subsequent connection request to the remote server; and
establishing a persistent connection with the browser.
         15. Method according to claim 14, where the connection request is transmitted by a selected
         protocol from a group consisting of TCP/IP protocols (TCP, UDP, etc.), VoIP protocols (RTP,
         RTCP, etc.), CDMA, WAP, etc.) and general protocols (Frame relay, ATM, etc.).
         16. Method according to claim 15, in which the persistent network connection is not limited to
         a single network domain or an IP address.

          17. Method according to claim 14, in which the browser does not require specialized browser
          technology such as ActiveX, Java, and Flash.
          18. Method according to claim 14, which still includes permanent archiving of any data and
          requests that are transferred between the browser and the server.
          19. Method according to claim 14, which additionally comprises the establishment of multiple
          independent network connections between the browser and the server.
          20. Method according to claim 14, in which the browser controls the persistent network
          connection.
          21. Method according to claim 14, in which the server controls the persistent network
          connection.
          22. Method according to claim 14, where the network includes a LAN (Local Area Network).
          23. Method according to claim 14, in which the network includes a Wide Area network (WAN)
          network.
          24. Method according to claim 14, in which the network application is a simple HTTP GET
          request.
          25. Method according to claim 14, in which data and instructions are sent only from the
          browser to the server.
          26. Method according to claim 14, in which data and instructions are sent only from the server
          to the browser.
          27. Method according to claim 14, in which information for submitting a subsequent
          connection request to the remote server includes scripting data.
          28. Method according to claim 27, in which the information for submitting a subsequent
          connection request to the remote server includes a first portion of the executable code and a
          second portion of the executable code for generating the connection request .
          29. Method according to claim 28, in which the first section of executable code generates and
          dynamically sends the login request by setting the source attribute of a script label to the
          second portion of the executable code.
          30. Method according to claim 28, in which the second portion of executable code
          dynamically generates a DOM event changing the script source.
          31. Method According to claim 28, in which the first portion of the executable code and the
          second portion of the executable code dynamically determine the maximum amount of data
          that can be sent by the browser using a GET HTTP.
32. A system for producing a persistent network connection between any network connected web
browser (Browser) and any remote server (Server), the system comprising:
a Browser that sends a dynamically generated HTTP GET request;
a first executable code portion loaded on the Browser that includes Browser scripting code;
a second executable code portion loaded on the Browser that generates and sends server connection
requests, wherein the source attribute of the second executable code portion is dynamically set;
a Server that receives and processes the network request from the Browser, wherein the Server
generates a response that returns to the second executable code portion data and at least one
instruction to process the Browser request;
wherein the Server response also includes an instruction that causes the Browser to send a
subsequent request to the Server.
          33. A method in accordance with the patent requirement 32 where a persistent network
          connection is not limited to one domain or IP address.
          34. A method in accordance with the patent requirement 32, in which the server permanently
          archives all data and requests that are transferred between the browser and the server.

35. A method in accordance with the patent requirement 32 where the browser directs a
continuous network connection.
36. A method in accordance with the patent requirement 32 where the server directs a
continuous network connection.
37. The method of patent requirement 32 in which the network is a Local Area network (LAN).
38. A method in accordance with the patent requirement 32 in which the network is a Wide
Area Network (WAN).
39. A method in accordance with the patent requirement 32 where information and
instructions are sent only from the browser to the server.
40. A method in accordance with the patent requirement 32, where information and
instructions are sent only from the server for the browser.
41. A method according to the patent requirement 32, in which the first and second
executable components dynamically determine the maximum number of data sent by the
browser using HTTP GET.
42. A method in accordance with the patent requirement 32 where a browser and a server can
establish multiple independent network connections.

