                                               21
ABSTRACT
An apparatus for erecting a carton from a blank comprises a base contacting member for
contacting the base of the blank, side wall panel contacting members, end wall panel
contacting members, and gusset guide members, wherein the base contacting member is
movable to cause the base to move and to bring the side wall panels and the end wall panels
of the blank into contact with respective of the side wall panel contacting members and end
wall panel contacting members to cause the side wall panels and the end wall panels to fold
relative to the base and to cause the gusset panels to fold such that the gusset panels are
located exteriorly of the side wall panels and end wall panels. Continued movement of the
base contacting member causes the gusset panels to come into contact with the gusset guide
members, the gusset guide members moving the gusset panels into proximity with respective
end wall panels or side wall panels and further movement of the base contacting member
results in the gusset panels coming into contact with respective end wall panels or side wall
panels to thereby cause the gusset panels to be adhered to the respective end wall panels or
side wall panels by an adhesive located therebetween.

     -7-7
..
 ..
....
   ...
  ..  .
     ..
        K . .....
                   ..
                  .)       ..---       -- --
                             .........  ------
                                               FIUR 2
                      -----------

                                                  1
TITLE
Machine for erecting a carton from a blank
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]       The present invention relates to a machine for erecting a carton from a blank. The
present invention also relates to a method for erecting a carton from a blank.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]       Packaging, storage and transport of meat and meat products provide a number of
challenges to the packaging industry. Meat and meat products can exude moisture when not
in a frozen condition. This often requires that a moisture proof liner be included in the cartons
in which the meat and meat products are stored. Furthermore, meat products are often stored
for extended periods in cold storage.
[0003]       A number of cartons are in commercial use for the packaging, storage and
transport of meat and meat products. These cartons have a number of different designs,
including corner post designs for providing enhanced strength for stacking and leak proof
base designs to cater for moisture that may be exuded from the meat. A number of packaging
cartons are fitted with polypropylene liners, in the form of insert sheets, again to cater for any
moisture that may be exuded from the meat.
[0004]       Cartons, such as cardboard or paperboard boxes, are normally made by erecting
the carton from a blank. The blanks are cut to shape and fold lines formed at the appropriate
places during manufacture of the blank at the blank manufacturing facility. The blanks are
then stacked for storage and transport. It will be appreciated that the blanks are effectively a
flat sheet of paperboard. As a result, the blanks take up the minimum space during storage
and transport.
[0005]       When it is desired to use the blanks for packaging and storage of items or
materials, the blanks must be erected into a carton, such as a box. This will typically involve
folding of the blank to form the carton. In some cartons, glue is used to hold parts of the
carton in place. In other cartons, insert tabs or folded panels hold the carton together. Cartons
may be erected by hand or by machine. In large packaging facilities, machine erection is
desirable as large numbers of cartons will need to be erected each day.

                                                  2
[0006]       It is an object of the present invention to provide a machine for erecting a carton
from a blank. It is another object of the present invention to provide a method for erecting a
carton from a blank.
[0007]       It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to herein,
this reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part of the common
general knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0008]       The present invention is directed to an apparatus for erecting a carton from a
blank, which may at least partially overcome at least one of the abovementioned
disadvantages or provide the consumer with a useful or commercial choice.
[0009]       With the foregoing in view, the present invention in one form, resides broadly in
an apparatus for erecting a carton from a blank, the blank comprising a base, side wall panels
connected to the base about respective fold lines, end wall panels connected to the base about
respective fold lines, gusset panels extending between adjacent end wall panels and side wall
panels, the gusset panels being connected to the respective end wall panels and side wall
panels by fold lines, the machine comprising a base contacting member for contacting the
base of the blank, side wall panel contacting members, end wall panel contacting members,
and gusset guide members, wherein the base contacting member is movable to cause the base
to move and to bring the side wall panels and the end wall panels into contact with respective
of the side wall panel contacting members and end wall panel contacting members to cause
the side wall panels and the end wall panels to fold relative to the base and to cause the gusset
panels to fold such that the gusset panels are located exteriorly of the side wall panels and
end wall panels, and wherein continued movement of the base contacting member causes the
gusset panels to come into contact with the gusset guide members, the gusset guide members
moving the gusset panels into proximity with respective end wall panels or side wall panels
and further movement of the base contacting member results in the gusset panels coming into
contact with respective end wall panels or side wall panels to thereby cause the gusset panels
to be adhered to the respective end wall panels or side wall panels by an adhesive located
therebetween.
[0010]       In one embodiment, the gusset guide members move the gusset panels into
contact with respective end wall panels or side wall panels. In the erected carton, the gusset

                                                 3
panels form gusset flaps that are adhered to the outside of either the side walls or the end
walls of the carton to thereby retain the carton in the erected position. Typically, the gusset
flaps are adhered to the end walls of carton.
[0011]      In one embodiment, the base contacting member comprises a mandrel. The base
contacting member may move in a reciprocal fashion. Preferably, the base contacting
member moves upwardly and downwardly, suitably in a generally vertical direction. The base
contacting member may be moved by any means known to be suitable to a person skilled in
the art. Some examples include hydraulic rams, pneumatic rams, or motors. Other examples
include worm gear drives, rack and pinion drives or stepper motors.
[0012]      In use during erection of a carton, the base contacting member contacts the base
of the blank. Suitably, the base contacting member has a similar size and shape at its lower
edge to the base of the blank. In this manner, the lower edge of the base contacting member
contacts the base of the blank at or near the fold lines at which the side wall panels and end
wall panels are joined to the base. This assists in causing the side wall panels and end wall
panels to fold about the fold lines.
[0013]      In one embodiment, the end wall panel contacting members comprise fixed or
stationary members. The end wall panel contacting members may have a generally vertical
region, a curved region and an outwardly extending region.
[0014]      In one embodiment, the side wall panel contacting members comprise fixed or
stationary members. The side wall panel contacting members may have a generally vertical
region, a curved region and an outwardly extending region.
[0015]      The side wall panel contacting members and end wall panel contacting members
come into contact with the side wall panels and end wall panels, respectively, as the base is
moved. As the base is moved through the apparatus by the base contacting member, the side
wall panels and the end wall panels move or rotate about their respective fold lines and, in
some embodiments, move upwardly relative to the base, due to the side wall panels and end
wall panels coming into contact with their respective contact members. At the same time, the
gusset panels start to fold outwardly.
[0016]      The gusset panels preferably have a diagonal fold line therein. Therefore, in
preferred embodiments, the gusset panels each have a fold line where they connect to a side

                                                  4
wall panel, a fold line where they connect to an end wall panel and a diagonal fold line. As
the side wall panels and end wall panels fold relative to the base, the gusset panels are also
forced to fold about the respective fold lines that connect them to their respective end wall
panels and side wall panels. The gusset panels also fold about the diagonal fold lines.
[0017]       The blank and/or apparatus for erecting the blank are arranged such that the
gusset panels fold outwardly. As a result, the gusset flaps that are formed in the erected
carton are located on the outside of the erected carton. This is particularly useful if the carton
is used for storage and transport of meat or other perishable food products in that the inner
volume of the carton remains free of edges or other areas of possible entrapment that may
trap meat or other food products in the carton during emptying of the carton. This ensures
that loss of produce is minimised when the cartons are emptied, particularly if the cartons are
emptied by emptying machines or other automated means.
[0018]       In the erected carton, the gusset flaps formed from the folded gusset panels are
adhered to the outside of the end walls or to the outside of the side walls to hold the container
together. In some embodiments of the present invention, it is envisaged that the gusset flaps
will be adhered to the outer surface of the end walls of the carton.
[0019]       The gusset guide members suitably comprise stationary or fixed members. In one
embodiment, the gusset guide members comprise fixed rods. The gusset guide members may
be angled such that one end, suitably an upper end, of the gusset guide member is positioned
away from the carton and the other end is positioned closer to the carton. The gusset guide
member may be positioned such that the gusset guide member has an upper end that is
positioned further away from the carton than the lower end and the gusset guide member
angles inwardly towards the carton.
[0020]       In some embodiments, as the base contacting member moves the base through the
apparatus, the gusset panels fold outwardly. Further movement of the base contacting
member causes the gusset panels (or gusset flaps) to come into contact with the gusset guide
members. Suitably, the lower edge of each of the gusset flaps comes into contact with their
respective gusset contact members. As the base contacting member continues to move the
base through the apparatus, the gusset flaps are caused to move along the gusset guide
members. Due to the positioning and orientation of the gusset guide members, this causes the
gusset flaps to be folded towards the side walls or end walls to which the gusset flaps will

                                                 5
become adhered. In some embodiments, the gusset guide members causes the gusset flaps to
come into contact with the respective side walls or end walls to which the gusset flaps will
become adhered.
[0021]       In some embodiments, the gusset panels fold about the end wall panel contacting
members. In these embodiments, the gusset panels are folded up against the end walls and
become adhered to the end walls. The end wall panel contacting members may provide an
edge or surface about which the gusset flaps can fold, thereby facilitating movement of the
gusset flaps into contact with the end wall of the carton. This also assists in ensuring that the
gusset flaps fold about the desired fold lines.
[0022]       In some embodiments, the apparatus of the present invention is further provided
with gusset flap retainers for retaining the gusset flaps in position next to the end walls or
sidewalls to which the gusset flaps are adhered. The gusset flap retainers are suitably
positioned downstream from the gusset guide members. The gusset flap retainers act to
physically hold the gusset flaps in position in contact with the end walls or sidewalls of the
container for a longer period of time such that the adhesive that is used to adhere the gusset
flaps to the end walls or sidewalls is given additional time to set.
[0023]       In one embodiment, the gusset flap retainers comprise spaced plates that are sized
to be able to accommodate the carton therebetween. In this manner, the spaced plates hold the
carton, and hence hold the gusset flaps, in position whilst the carton is located between the
spaced plates.
[0024]       In other embodiments, the gusset flap retainers comprise opposed end plates and
opposed side members that bound a region having an area that is similar in size and shape to
the base of the container.
[0025]       In some embodiments, the carton is held between the gusset flap retainers until it
is displaced by movement of the next container into the region between the gusset flap
retainers.
[0026]       The apparatus may also be provided with one or more carton retainers for
retaining the carton in the region between the gusset flap retainers when the base contacting
member is withdrawn from the carton. The one or more carton retainers may comprise
pivoted or pendulum arms that move out of the way as they carton is moved by the base

                                                6
contacting member past the arms and swing back such that ends of the arms or stop members
mounted to the arms are located above side walls or end walls of the carton once the carton
has moved past the arms. In this manner, as the base contacting member is withdrawn from
the carton, if the carton moves upwardly with the base contacting member, the walls of the
carton come into contact with the ends of the arms or the stop members on the arms and
further upward movement of the carton is thereby prevented.
[0027]       In some embodiments, the carton retainers are biased to move towards a carton
retaining position in the absence of an applied force to the carton retainers. Moving the carton
past the carton retainers may apply a force to the carton retainers to move the carton retainers
out of the way until the carton has moved past the carton retainers, at which time the carton
retainers move back to the carton retaining position.
[0028]       In one embodiment, the machine is provided with one or more rollers that
contacts the gusset flaps as the carton is moved past the one or more rollers by the base
contacting member. The one or more rollers provides additional pressure to the gusset flaps
whilst the adhesive is setting to thereby improve the quality of adhesion between the gusset
flaps and the end walls or side walls to which the gusset flaps are adhered. Preferably, the
machine is provided with two opposed rollers that contact the respective gusset flaps on
opposed end walls or side walls of the carton as the carton is moved past the rollers by the
base contacting member.
[0029]       In some embodiments, the apparatus of the present invention further comprises
one or more adhesive applicators for applying adhesive to the blank. The one or more
adhesive applicators may be located upstream of the base contacting member. The one or
more adhesive applicators may apply adhesive to the end wall panels or to the side wall
panels. Suitably, the one or more adhesive applicators apply an adhesive to the end wall
panels. The adhesive may be applied in the form of one or more lines of adhesive. The
adhesive may be applied to an underneath the surface of the blank as it passes through the
apparatus. The one or more adhesive applicators may comprise spray applicators orjet
applicators for applying a spray or jet of adhesive to the blank.
[0030]       The apparatus of the present invention will typically also comprise a feeding
arrangement for feeding a blank to an erection station of the apparatus. The feeding
arrangement may take a blank from a stack of blanks and feed it to the erection station of the

                                                  7
apparatus. The skilled person will appreciate that there are a number of known feeding
arrangement that can feed blanks from a stack of blanks. Such feeding arrangement may
include one or more of suction cups for removing a blank from a stack of blanks, one or more
feed rollers for moving the blank into the carton erecting station or one or more kickers for
moving the blank into the carton erecting station.
[0031]       In preferred embodiments of the present invention, a carton is erected from the
blank in a manner such that the gusset flaps are glued to the exterior surface of the end walls
of the carton. In these embodiments, a blank is moved by the feeding arrangement into the
carton forming station. Glue lines are applied to the underside of the end wall panels during
feeding of the blank to the carton forming station. The blank is positioned such that the base
is directly underneath the mandrel. The mandrel is operated to move downwardly. The
mandrel comes into contact with the base, which pushes the base in a downwards direction.
The side wall panels and end wall panels come into contact with their respective panel
contacting members. This causes the side wall panels and the end wall panels to start to fold
upwardly relative to the base. As the mandrel continues to move downwardly, the base is
pushed further down and the side wall panels and end wall panels are caused to fold to an
ever-more upright orientation. At the same time, the gusset panels are caused to fold
outwardly to form triangular shaped gusset flaps. These gusset flaps are located externally of
the side walls and end walls of the carton. Continued downward movement of the mandrel
causes the lower edge of the gusset flaps to come into contact with the gusset guide members
which, in turn, starts to fold the gusset flaps about respective edges of the end wall panel
contacting members and towards the end walls. Further movement of the mandrel in a
downwards direction continues folding of the gusset flaps towards the end walls until the
gusset flaps come into contact with the end walls. This places one surface of the gusset flaps
into contact with the glue lines on the end walls. The carton then moves past opposed rollers,
which press the gusset flaps firmly into contact with the end wall panels. Further downward
movement of the mandrel moves the carton into the region between the gusset flap retainers.
The carton retainers move into place above the sidewalls of the carton. The mandrel is then
withdrawn. If the carton wants to move upwardly with the mandrel when the mandrel is
withdrawn, the side walls of the carton come into contact with the carton retainers, which act
to hold the carton in place whilst the mandrel is fully withdrawn. Another blank may then be
moved into position and the next carton erected in the same manner. As the next carton is
moved into the region between the gusset flap retainers, the next carton displaces the

                                                 8
previous carton from that region and the previous carton can then be discharged from the
apparatus.
[0032]        The apparatus of the present invention allows for the rapid erection of containers
from blanks. The apparatus of preferred embodiments has a minimum of moving parts and
utilises stationary or fixed side wall panel contacting members, end wall panel contacting
members and gusset guide members that act with the moving mandrel to form the carton. The
carton has external gusset flaps that are glued to the outer surface of the end walls of the
carton to thereby hold the carton in the erected condition. As the gusset flaps are on the
outside of the carton, there are no entrapment areas within the carton that could otherwise
trap meat or other produce in the carton.
[0033]        In preferred embodiments of the present invention, the blank is lined on one
surface with a fluid impermeable lining, such as a food grade polyethylene or polypropylene
lining. In preferred embodiments of the present invention, the lining of the blank is positioned
on the upper side of the blank as the blank passes through the apparatus of the present
invention.
[0034]        Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination with
any one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the invention.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0035]        Various embodiments of the invention will be described with reference to the
following drawings, in which:
[0036]        Figure 1 shows an underneath view of a blank that can be used in the erection of a
carton using an apparatus of an embodiment of the present invention;
[0037]        Figure 2 shows a side schematic view of an apparatus in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention;
[0038]        Figure 3 shows a perspective view of a mandrel suitable for use in an apparatus in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0039]        Figure 4 shows a perspective view of one of the end wall contacting members in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;

                                                 9
[0040]       Figure 5 shows a perspective view of one of the gusset guide members suitable
for use in an embodiment of the present invention;
[0041]       Figure 6 shows a perspective view of part of the apparatus in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention in which an end roller and the carton retaining member
can be seen;
[0042]       Figure 7 is a perspective view showing the roller and a gusset flap retainer that
are included in an embodiment of the present invention;
[0043]       Figure 8 is a perspective view showing the side wall panel contacting member,
the end wall panel contacting member and the blank which is starting to be formed into a
container by virtue of the mandrel moving the base of the blank downwardly;
[0044]       Figure 9 shows a perspective view similar to that shown in figure 8 but with the
mandrel being moved further down as part of the process for erecting the container;
[0045]       Figure 10 shows a perspective view of the gusset guide member starting to move
the gusset flap towards the end wall of the container;
[0046]       Figure 11 shows a perspective view of the next stage of the forming process in
which the gusset flaps have been moved to be in abutment with the end walls and are moving
into contact with the roller;
[0047]       Figure 12 shows an underneath perspective view of the container being
positioned between the container retaining plates; and
[0048]       Figure 13 shows a perspective view showing the forming station of the apparatus
shown in figure 2.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0049]       It will be appreciated that the drawings have been provided for the purpose of
illustrating preferred embodiments of the present invention. Therefore, it will be understood
that the present invention should not be considered to be limited solely to the features as
shown in the attached drawings.
[0050]       Figure 1 shows an underneath view of a blank 10 suitable for use in erecting a

                                                10
carton using an apparatus in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The
blank 10 is suitably lined with a polyethylene or polypropylene liner on an upper surface. The
lower surface (shown in figure 1) of the blank may comprise an unlined surface. The blank
10 is suitably made from a paperboard product or cardboard product, such as a double layer
fluted cardboard in which an inner corrugated layer has a sheet of paperboard attached to
opposed faces thereof The upper surface of the blank, as mentioned above, is suitably lined
with a polyethylene or polypropylene liner, especially a food grade liner. The blank 10 may
be erected to form a carton suitable for use in transporting and storing meat or other food
products.
[0051]       The blank 10 comprise a base panel 12 and side wall panels 14, 16 connected to
base panel 12 by respective fold lines 15, 17. The blank 10 also includes end wall panels 18,
20 connected to the base panel 12 by respective fold lines 19, 21. The blank 10 also includes
gusset panels 22, 24, 26, 28. Gusset panel 22 is connected to side wall panel 16 by fold line
23. Gusset panel 22 is connected to end wall panel 20 by fold line 25. Gusset panel 22 also
includes a tab 30 that can fold about fold line 27. Gusset panel 22 also includes a diagonal
fold line 29 formed therein. The other gusset panels 24, 26 and 28 are essentially identical
and need not be described further.
[0052]       In order to erect a carton from the blank 10 is shown in figure 1, the carton is fed
to an apparatus in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. This causes the
side wall panels 14, 16 and end wall panels 18, 20 to fold upwardly. The gusset panels fold
outwardly about their diagonal fold lines. The gusset panels are then caused to fold towards
the respective end wall panels and the gusset panels come into contact with glue lines that
have been applied to the end wall panels, which causes the gusset panels to become adhered
to the end wall panels. The layout of the glue lines is shown by reference numerals 31 and 32
in figure 1.
[0053]       Figure 2 shows a side schematic view of an apparatus 40 in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention. The apparatus 40 includes a feed station, generally
denoted at 42 and a forming station, generally denoted at 44. In brief terms, a trolley 46
containing a stack 48 of blanks 10 as shown in figure 1 is supplied to the feed station 42.
Blanks are moved from the feed station 42 into the forming station 44. The blanks are erected
into a carton in the forming station 44. Finished cartons are removed from the feeding station
44 using an exit conveyor 50.

                                                  11
[0054]       In the feeding station, trolley 46 containing the stack of blanks 48 is lifted by a
stack lift 52 until the top blank of the stack is at a pre-set height. A hoist motor 54 may be
used to raise and lower the stack lift 52 as required. The stack lift 52 is suitably automatically
controlled during unloading of blanks from the stack. Once the stack of blanks has been fully
used, the stack lift can be lowered so that a new stack of blanks can be wheeled into place.
[0055]       The blanks 10 are suitably arranged such that the lined surface is positioned as the
upper surface of the blank. Vacuum cups 56, which receive vacuum from a vacuum fan 58,
attach to the upper surface of the top blank in the stack of blanks. Blank pick up cylinder 60
then raises the vacuum cups and hence also lifts the attached blank 10. Blank feed cylinder 62
then moves the blank sideways to the right (as shown in figure 2) into the nip between drive
wheel 64 and slave wheel 66. This moves the blank further sideways to the right. The blank
moves past glue guns 67 which spray the glue lines 31, 32 on to the underside of the end wall
panels 18, 20 of the blank 10. The blank 10 then enters the nip between a second set of drive
wheels and slave wheels (not numbered), which cause further sideways movement of the
blank. Once the blank has fully passed through the drive wheels, a blank pusher 68, which is
moved by a cylinder, such as a pneumatic cylinder or a hydraulic cylinder, pushes the blank
10 into contact with end stop 70. The side edges of the blank 10 may be supported by side
rails (not shown) and the blank 10 can slide along the side rails whilst being moved by the
blank pusher 68. End stop 70 ensures that the blank 10 is properly positioned within the
forming station 44.
[0056]       It will be appreciated that a number of alternative feed arrangements may be used
to feed the blank 10 to the forming station 44.
[0057]       After the blank is in the forming station, the blank is formed into a container. In
general terms, the forming station has a forming chamber that includes side wall panel
contacting members and end wall panel contacting members. A mandrel comes into contact
with the base panel of the blank and pushes the base panel downwardly. This causes the
blank to move off the side rails. The side wall panels and end wall panels come into contact
with the side wall panel contacting members and end wall panel contacting members.
Continued downward movement of the mandrel causes the base panel to move further
downwardly. As the side wall panels and end wall panels have come into contact with their
respective side wall panel contacting members and end wall panel contacting members, the
side wall panels and end wall panels are caused to fold upwardly. This occurs in the forming

                                                  12
chamber 72 shown in figure 2. The gusset panels fold outwardly. Continued downward
movement of the mandrel causes the gusset panels to be moved by the gusset guide members
until the gusset panels come into contact with the end walls of the container. The glue lines
that have been applied to the end wall panels act to glue the gusset panels to the end wall
panels. The erected container is held between retainers at the lower end of the forming station
until it is displaced by the next carton that is erected by the apparatus. The carton is then
ejected onto the exit conveyor 50 and is removed from the apparatus in the direction of
outfeed arrow 74.
[0058]        For clarity, a number of features of the forming station 72 have been omitted
from figure 2. The various features of the apparatus shown in figure 2 may be supported by or
mounted to frame members. For clarity, the frame members have also been omitted from
figure 2. The person skilled in the art will readily appreciate that a number of different
designs of frames may be used in the apparatus of the present invention and that, as a result, it
is not necessary to describe the frame members in any detail.
[0059]        Figures 3 to 12 show various views of parts of the forming chamber. Figure 13
shows a perspective view of the forming chamber.
[0060]        Figure 3 shows a perspective view, from above, of the mandrel 76. The mandrel
76 is driven by a cylinder 78. The mandrel 76 has a base plate 80 and end plates 82, 84 that
are connected to and extend upwardly from the ends of the base plate 80. Connecting rods 86,
88 are used to provide further support to the end plates 82, 84. The mandrel 78 also has two
guide rods 90, 92 that are connected to the base plate 80 and pass through guide apertures or
guide bearings in part of the framework (not shown). A cylinder rod 94 is also connected to
the base plate 80. Extension of the cylinder rod 94 causes the mandrel 76 to move
downwardly in an essentially vertical direction. Retraction of the cylinder rod 94 causes the
mandrel 76 to move upwardly in an essentially vertical direction. The guide rods 90, 92 are
constrained to move only in a vertical direction by virtue of them passing through the guide
apertures or guide bearings. In another embodiment, the cylinder 78 may be replaced by a
worm and gear drive to achieve and control movement of the mandrel 76 in the upwards and
downwards direction. The skilled person will readily appreciate that a number of other
arrangements may be used to achieve and control movement of the mandrel 76 in the
upwards and downwards direction.

                                                  13
[0061]       The base plate 80 is dimensioned such that it has edges that essentially coincide
with or lie just inside the fold lines 15, 17, 19, 21 that define the outer edges of the base panel
12 of the blank 10. In this manner, when the blank 10 is properly positioned in the forming
station 44, actuation of the forming cylinder 78 to cause extension of cylinder rod 94 causes
downwards movement of the mandrel 76 such that the base plate 80 of the mandrel 76 comes
into contact with the base panel 12 of the blank 10. Further extension of the cylinder rod 94
causes the mandrel 76 to move further downwardly which, in turn, pushes the base panel 12
of the blank 10 further downwardly.
[0062]       Figure 4 shows a perspective view of one of the end wall panel contacting
members 96 that is used in the present invention. The end wall panel contacting member 96
includes a laterally extending upper portion 98. Upper portion 98 has an outer end 99 that is
positioned away from the fold lines between the end wall panel that overlies the contacting
member 96 and the base panel. The upper portion 98 extends inwardly to an arcuate portion
100. The upper portion 98 may have a slight downward slope to the horizontal as it moves
inwardly towards the arcuate portion 100. The guide member 96 also includes a generally
vertically extending lower portion 102. The lower portion 102 contacts the side wall of the
carton as the carton is erected in the apparatus. The side wall panel contacting members may
be similarly shaped.
[0063]       The guide member 96 may be mounted to frame member 104. Frame member
104 may be an adjustable frame member so that the position of the side wall panel contacting
member 96 can be adjusted. Other frame members 106 of the apparatus are also shown in
figure 4.
[0064]       The apparatus also includes gusset guide members, one of which is shown at 108
in figure 5. The gusset guide member 108 comprises an angled rod that is mounted to frame
member 110. The gusset guide member 108 is suitably a stationary, fixed member. The
gusset guide member 108 is located at a level that is below the upper portions of the side wall
panel contacting members and end wall panel contacting members. Functioning of the gusset
guide members will be described hereunder.
[0065]       The forming station 44 of the apparatus 40 also includes a roller 112 that comes
into contact with the end walls and gusset flaps of the carton during the final stages of carton
erection. This is shown in figure 6. An identical roller is positioned at the other end of the

                                                14
apparatus so that it contacts the end wall and gusset flaps of the other end of the carton. The
forming station 44 also includes gusset flap retainers 114, 116 that are positioned just outside
the location of the end walls of the finished containers and act to hold the carton
therebetween such that the gusset flaps are held in contact with the end walls to allow
additional time for the glue to set. The forming station is also provided with carton retainers
118, 120. Carton retainer 120 may comprise a pivot arm 122 that is mounted via a pivot 124.
Arm 122 may pivot freely about pivot 124 or it may be biased to the position shown in figure
6, such as by a biasing spring. Carton retainer 120 has a foot 126 that has a bevelled or sloped
upper surface 128 and a flat lower surface 130. As a carton is moved downwardly by the
mandrel 76, the base of the carton contacts the bevelled upper surface 128. This causes the
carton retainers 118, 122 swing outwardly out of the way of the downwardly moving
container. When the upper edge of the side walls of the container have moved below the feet
128, the pivot arm 122 swings back to a more vertical orientation such that the lower flat
surface of the foot 128 lies over the top of the side wall of the container. In this manner, when
the mandrel is retracted, if the container wants to move up with the mandrel, the upper edge
of the side walls come into contact with the lower edges of the feet of the carton retainers
118, 120 and this acts to hold the carton in place. It will be understood that similar carton
retainers are located so that they perform the same function on the other side wall of the
container. With reference to figure 3, it can be seen that the base plate 80 of the mandrel
includes a cut-out portion 81 in the side edge thereof, which provides clearance between the
base plate and the feet of the carton retainers when the mandrel 76 is being withdrawn from
the carton.
[0066]       Figure 6 also shows the lower end of gusset guide member 108. The lower
portion of end wall panel contacting member 130 is also shown.
[0067]       Figure 7 shows another view of the roller 112 and the gusset flap retainer 114.
These members are mounted to frame member 132. Side wall contacting member 121 is also
shown in figure 6. Side wall contacting member 121 has a similar shape to end wall
contacting members 96. However, as best shown in figure 13, side wall contacting members
121 are wider than end wall contacting members 96. Secondary side wall contacting members
123 are located adjacent to each of the side wall contacting members 121. Secondary side
wall contacting members 123 have an upper portion that is somewhat lower than the upper
portion of side wall contacting members 121. The secondary side wall contacting members

                                                 15
123 assist in ensuring that the gusset panels fold into the correct orientation during erection of
the container.
[0068]        Figures 8 to 12 show various stages in the erection of the carton using the
apparatus 40. In figure 8, the side wall panel contacting member 96 is shown. Figure 8 also
shows the end wall panel contacting member 134. End wall panel contacting member 134
includes a laterally extending upper portion 36, an arcuate region 138 and a lower, generally
vertically extending region 140 (which is partially obscured in figure 8). The side wall panel
contacting member 96 and end wall panel 136 are located close to the corner of the base
panel 12. Similar pairs of side panel contacting members and end wall panel contacting
members are located around each of the corners of the base panel 12 of the blank 10.
[0069]        In figure 8, the mandrel 76 has started to push the base panel 12 downwardly such
that the base panel is located below the upper portions of the side wall panel contacting
members and end wall panel contacting members. The side will panel contacting members
and end wall panel contacting members contact the respective side wall panels and end wall
panels of the blank and this causes the end wall panel 20 and the sidewall panels to start to
fold upwardly. The gusset panel 22 has started to fold outwardly and the gusset panel 22 has
also started to fold itself about fold line 29. As can be seen from figure 8, the gusset panel is
folded such that it lies exteriorly to the side wall panels and end wall panels.
[0070]        Further lowering of the mandrel moves the blank to the position shown in figure
9. In figure 9, the gusset panel 22 has been folded such that it has effectively been folded in
half about fold line 29 such that the parts of the gusset panel on either side of fold line 29
have come into face to face abutment.
[0071]        As the mandrel is continued to be lowered, the lower edge of the gusset panel
(that is defined about fold line 29) comes into contact with the gusset guide member 108.
Similar gusset guide members are mounted to come into contact with the gusset panels at the
other 3 corners of the carton. Gusset guide member 108 is oriented such that it causes the
gusset panel 22 to fold about its vertical edge as the base panel 12 continues to be lowered. In
this regard, the gusset guide member 108 may extend diagonally in two directions to cause
appropriate folding of the gusset panel. As can also be seen in figure 10, the vertical fold line
of the gusset panel 22 is positioned adjacent to the inner edge 142 of the lower portion 140 of
the end wall panel contacting member 134. Thus, this inner edge forms an edge about which

                                                16
the gusset panel 22 can be folded. This assists in folding the gusset panel to the desired
position.
[0072]       As the mandrel is continued to be lowered, the gusset panels are caused to come
into abutment with the end wall of the carton. This is shown in figure 11, where gusset panels
22, 24 have been placed into abutment with end wall 20. The lower edges of the gusset panels
have also come in into contact with the roller 112. As the carton continues to move
downwardly due to the action of the mandrel 76, the roller 112 applies a press force to the
gusset panels to place them firmly into contact with the end walls. This assists in ensuring
that the glue will hold the gusset panels to the end walls in the finished carton. Although not
shown in the figures, the mandrel may also be provided with an extension to cause bowing of
the end walls to bring the end walls into firmer contact with the tabs of the gusset panels in
order to improve the bond between the end walls and the tabs of the gusset flaps.
[0073]       When the mandrel reaches the bottom of its downwards stroke, the carton reaches
the position shown in figure 12. In figure 12, the base panel 12 of the carton and the side wall
16 of the carton can be seen. The end walls and gusset panels are held between gusset flap
retainers 114, 116. Frame members 142, 144 are also shown in figure 12, as are carton
retainers 118A, 120A, which are identical to carton retainers 118, 120 as described in figure
6.
[0074]       The mandrel is then lifted upwardly to remove it from the carton. Carton retainers
118, 120, 118A, 120A assist in retaining the carton between the gusset flap retainers 114, 116
as the mandrel is withdrawn. This provides for additional time for the glue to set before the
carton is ejected from the forming station. This minimises the risk of the glue not setting
adequately before the gusset flaps are not held in place by mechanical means.
[0075]       The carton is held in the position shown in figure 12 until the next carton that is
being formed in the apparatus is pushed down by the mandrel and displaces the previous
carton. The displaced carton falls out of the forming station and onto the exit conveyer 50,
where it may be delivered to a desired location.
[0076]       The apparatus of the present invention provides a machine that allows for cartons
to be erected from blanks at a high production rate. The forming station has minimal moving
parts, which will assist in reducing maintenance costs and loss of production associated with
downtime. The erected cartons have gusset flaps that are located externally to the inner

                                                 17
volume of the carton. Thus, the gusset flaps do not present a trap region inside the container,
thereby minimising the likelihood that produce will be trapped in the container during an
emptying operation.
[0077]       In the present specification and claims (if any), the word 'comprising' and its
derivatives including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated integers but does
not exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[0078]       Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an embodiment'
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the
appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an embodiment' in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.
[0079]       In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more
or less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the invention is
not limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein described
comprises preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore,
claimed in any of its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims
(if any) appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.

                                                 18
CLAIMS
1.      An apparatus for erecting a carton from a blank, the blank comprising a base, side
wall panels connected to the base about respective fold lines, end wall panels connected to
the base about respective fold lines, gusset panels extending between adjacent end wall
panels and side wall panels, the gusset panels being connected to the respective end wall
panels and side wall panels by fold lines, the machine comprising a base contacting member
for contacting the base of the blank, side wall panel contacting members, end wall panel
contacting members, and gusset guide members, wherein the base contacting member is
movable to cause the base to move and to bring the side wall panels and the end wall panels
into contact with respective of the side wall panel contacting members and end wall panel
contacting members to cause the side wall panels and the end wall panels to fold relative to
the base and to cause the gusset panels to fold such that the gusset panels are located
exteriorly of the side wall panels and end wall panels, and wherein continued movement of
the base contacting member causes the gusset panels to come into contact with the gusset
guide members, the gusset guide members moving the gusset panels into proximity with
respective end wall panels or side wall panels and further movement of the base contacting
member results in the gusset panels coming into contact with respective end wall panels or
side wall panels to thereby cause the gusset panels to be adhered to the respective end wall
panels or side wall panels by an adhesive located therebetween.
2.      An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the base contacting member moves
upwardly and downwardly in a generally vertical direction.
3.      An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the base contacting member
comprises a mandrel and the base contacting member has a similar size and shape at its lower
edge to the base of the blank such that the lower edge of the base contacting member contacts
the base of the blank at or near the fold lines at which the side wall panels and end wall
panels are joined to the base.
4.      An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the end wall
panel contacting members comprise fixed or stationary members.
5.      An apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein the end wall panel contacting members
have a generally vertical region, a curved region and an outwardly extending region.

                                                19
6.      An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the side wall
panel contacting members comprise fixed or stationary members.
7.      An apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein the side wall panel contacting members
have a generally vertical region, a curved region and an outwardly extending region.
8.      An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the gusset guide
members comprise stationary or fixed members, preferably the gusset guide members
comprise fixed rods.
9.      An apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein the gusset guide members are positioned
such that the gusset guide member has an upper end that is positioned further away from the
carton than the lower end and the gusset guide member angles inwardly towards the carton.
10.     An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the apparatus is
further provided with gusset flap retainers for retaining the gusset flaps in position next to the
end walls or sidewalls to which the gusset flaps are adhered.
11.     An apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein the gusset flap retainers are positioned
downstream from the gusset guide members.
12.     An apparatus as claimed in claim 11 or claim 12 wherein the gusset flap retainers
comprise spaced plates that are sized to be able to accommodate the carton therebetween or
the gusset flap retainers comprise opposed end plates and opposed side members that bound a
region having an area that is similar in size and shape to the base of the container.
13.     An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the apparatus is
further provided with one or more carton retainers for retaining the carton in the region
between the gusset flap retainers when the base contacting member is withdrawn from the
carton.
14.     An apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein the one or more carton retainers
comprise pivoted or pendulum arms that move out of the way as the carton is moved by the
base contacting member past the arms and swing back such that ends of the arms or stop
members mounted to the arms are located above side walls or end walls of the carton once
the carton has moved past the arms.

                                                20
15.     An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims further comprising one or
more rollers that contact the gusset flaps as the carton is moved past the one or more rollers
by the base contacting member.
16.     An apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein the apparatus is provided with two
opposed rollers that contact the respective gusset flaps on opposed end walls or side walls of
the carton as the carton is moved past the rollers by the base contacting member.
17.     An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims further comprising one or
more adhesive applicators for applying adhesive to the blank.
18.     An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims further comprising a
feeding arrangement for feeding a blank to an erection station of the apparatus.
19.     An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the gusset panels,
the gusset panels each have a fold line where they connect to a side wall panel, a fold line
where they connect to an end wall panel and a diagonal fold line and the gusset panels fold
about the diagonal fold lines during erection of the carton, the bottom edge of a gusset panel
being formed by the vertical fold line and wherein the bottom edge of the gusset panel
contacts the gusset panel guide member.
20.     An apparatus as claimed in claim 13 or claim 14 wherein the carton retainers are
biased to move towards a carton retaining position in the absence of an applied force to the
carton retainers.

 11 Feb
 20     2014
    Sep 2018
 2014224086
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014224086, is current as of 2018-02-19 21:00 AEST

 11 Feb
 20     2014
    Sep 2018
 2014224086
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014224086, is current as of 2018-02-19 21:00 AEST

 11 Feb
 20     2014
    Sep 2018
 2014224086
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014224086, is current as of 2018-02-19 21:00 AEST

 11 Feb
 20     2014
    Sep 2018
 2014224086
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014224086, is current as of 2018-02-19 21:00 AEST

 11 Feb
 20     2014
    Sep 2018
 2014224086
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014224086, is current as of 2018-02-19 21:00 AEST

 11 Feb
 20     2014
    Sep 2018
 2014224086
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014224086, is current as of 2018-02-19 21:00 AEST

 11 Feb
 20     2014
    Sep 2018
 2014224086
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014224086, is current as of 2018-02-19 21:00 AEST

 11 Feb
 20     2014
    Sep 2018
 2014224086
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014224086, is current as of 2018-02-19 21:00 AEST

 11 Feb
 20     2014
    Sep 2018
 2014224086
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014224086, is current as of 2018-02-19 21:00 AEST

 11 Feb
 20     2014
    Sep 2018
 2014224086
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014224086, is current as of 2018-02-19 21:00 AEST

 11 Feb
 20     2014
    Sep 2018
 2014224086
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014224086, is current as of 2018-02-19 21:00 AEST

 11 Feb
 20     2014
    Sep 2018
 2014224086
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014224086, is current as of 2018-02-19 21:00 AEST

 11 Feb
 20     2014
    Sep 2018
 2014224086
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014224086, is current as of 2018-02-19 21:00 AEST

