                                                 ABSTRACT
  Nucleic acid immunisation is achieved by delivering RNA encapsulated within a liposome. The RNA
  encodes an immunogen of interest, and the liposome has a diameter in the range of 60-180nm, and ideally
  in the range 80-160nm. Thus the invention provides a liposome having a lipid bilayer encapsulating an
5 aqueous core, wherein: (i) the lipid bilayer has a diameter in the range of 60-180nm; and (ii) the aqueous
  core includes a RNA which encodes an immunogen. These liposomes are suitable for in vivo delivery of
  the RNA to a vertebrate cell and so they are useful as components in pharmaceutical compositions for
  immunising subjects against various diseases.

                           AUSTRALIA
                       Patents Act 1990
                                 Novartis AG
                    COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                          STANDARD PATENT
Invention Title:
      Small Liposomesfor Delivery ofImmunogen-Encoding RNA
The following statement is a full description of this invention including the best
method of performing it known to us:
                                        - 1-

               SMALL LIPOSOMES FOR DELIVERY OF IMMUNOGEN-ENCODING RNA
   This application is a divisional application pursuant to Section 79B of the Patents Act 1990 of Australian
   Patent Application No. <removed-apn> which is itself a divisional application of Australian Patent
   Application No. 2011296062, which corresponds to International Application No. PCT/US2011/049873
 5 filed 31 August 2011 in the Australian national phase, which claims priority to U.S. provisional
   application number 61/378,831, filed 31 August 2010, the contents of which are incorporated herein in
   their entirety.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
 0 This invention is in the field of non-viral delivery of RNA for immunisation.
   BACKGROUND ART
   The delivery of nucleic acids for immunising animals has been a goal for several years. Various
   approaches have been tested, including the use of DNA or RNA, of viral or non-viral delivery vehicles (or
 5 even no delivery vehicle, in a "naked" vaccine), of replicating or non-replicating vectors, or of viral or
   non-viral vectors.
   There remains a need for further and improved nucleic acid vaccines and, in particular, for improved
   ways of delivering nucleic acid vaccines.
 0
   Any discussion of documents. acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has been included in the
   present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters form part of the
   prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present disclosure as it
   existed before the priority date of each of the appended claims.
   Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising",
   will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or group of elements,
   integers or steps,. but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements,
   integers or steps.
30
   DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION
   According to the invention, nucleic acid immunisation is achieved by delivering RNA encapsulated
   within a liposome. The RNA encodes an immunogen of interest, and the liposome has a diameter in the
   range of 60-180nm, and ideally in the range 80-160nm. This size compares with, for example, a diameter
35 of 40nm for an unenveloped alphavirus isometric protein capsid. The combination of efficient
                                                            -1A-

  encapsulation of a RNA (particularly a self-replicating RNA) within a small liposome allows for efficient
  delivery to elicit a strong immune response.
  Thus the invention provides a liposome within which RNA encoding an immunogen of interest is
5 encapsulated, wherein the liposome has a diameter in the range of 60-180nm. These liposomes are
  suitable for in vivo delivery of the RNA to a vertebrate cell and so they are useful as components in
  pharmaceutical compositions for immunising subjects against various diseases.
  The invention also provides a process for preparing a RNA-containing liposome, comprising a step of
0 mixing RNA with one or more lipids, under conditions such that the lipids form a liposome with a
  diameter in the range of 60-180nm and in which the RNA is encapsulated.
  The liposome
  The invention utilises liposomes within which immunogen-encoding RNA is encapsulated. Thus the
5 RNA is (as in a natural virus) separated from any external medium. Encapsulation within the liposome
  has been found to protect RNA from RNase digestion. The liposomes can include some external RNA
  (e.g. on their surface), but at least half of the RNA (and ideally all of it) is encapsulated in the liposome's
  core. Encapsulation within liposomes is distinct from, for instance, the lipid/RNA complexes disclosed in
  reference 1, where RNA is mixed with pre-formed liposomes.
                                                           - 1B -

  Various amphiphilic lipids can form bilayers in an aqueous environment to encapsulate a RNA
  containing aqueous core as a liposome. These lipids can have an anionic, cationic or zwitterionic
  hydrophilic head group. Formation of liposomes from anionic phospholipids dates back to the 1960s,
  and cationic liposome-forming lipids have been studied since the 1990s. Some phospholipids are
5 anionic whereas other are zwitterionic and others are cationic. Suitable classes of phospholipid
  include,     but    are    not    limited    to,   phosphatidylethanolamines,      phosphatidylcholines,
  phosphatidylserines, and phosphatidyl-glycerols, and some useful phospholipids are listed in Table 1.
  Useful cationic lipids include, but are not limited to, dioleoyl trimethylammonium propane
  (DOTAP), 1,2-distearyloxy-NN-dimethyl-3-aminopropane (DSDMA), 1,2-dioleyloxy-N,Ndimethyl
0 3-aminopropane (DODMA), 1,2-di-O-octadecenyl-3-trimethylammonium propane (DOTMA), 1,2
  dilinoleyloxy-N,N-dimethyl-3-aminopropane          (DLinDMA),       1,2-dilinolenyloxy-N,N-dimethyl-3
  aminopropane (DLenDMA). Zwitterionic lipids include, but are not limited to, acyl zwitterionic
  lipids and ether zwitterionic lipids. Examples of useful zwitterionic lipids are DPPC, DOPC, DSPC,
  dodecylphosphocholine,       1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphatidylethanolamine     (DOPE),    and   1,2
5 diphytanoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine (DPyPE). The lipids can be saturated or unsaturated.
  The use of at least one unsaturated lipid for preparing liposomes is preferred. If an unsaturated lipid
  has two tails, both tails can be unsaturated, or it can have one saturated tail and one unsaturated tail.
  A lipid can include a steroid group in one tail e.g. as in RV05 (see also FIGS. 16A & C-K).
  Thus, in some embodiments, the invention provides a liposome having a lipid bilayer encapsulating
0 an aqueous core, wherein: (i) the liposome has a diameter in the range of 60-180nm; and (ii) the
  aqueous core includes a RNA which encodes an immunogen.
  Liposomes of the invention can be formed from a single lipid or from a mixture of lipids. A mixture
  may comprise (i) a mixture of anionic lipids (ii) a mixture of cationic lipids (iii) a mixture of
  zwitterionic lipids (iv) a mixture of anionic lipids and cationic lipids (v) a mixture of anionic lipids
5 and zwitterionic lipids (vi) a mixture of zwitterionic lipids and cationic lipids or (vii) a mixture of
  anionic lipids, cationic lipids and zwitterionic lipids. Similarly, a mixture may comprise both
  saturated and unsaturated lipids. For example, a mixture may comprise DSPC (zwitterionic,
  saturated), DlinDMA (cationic, unsaturated), and/or DMG (anionic, saturated). Where a mixture of
  lipids is used, not all of the component lipids in the mixture need to be amphiphilic e.g. one or more
0 amphiphilic lipids can be mixed with cholesterol.
  Where a liposome of the invention is formed from a mixture of lipids, it is preferred that the
  proportion of those lipids which is cationic should be between 20-80% of the total amount of lipids
  e.g. between 30-70%, or between 40-60%. The remainder can be made of e.g. cholesterol (e.g. 35
  50% cholesterol) and/or DMG (optionally PEGylated) and/or DSPC. Such mixtures are used below.
5 These percentage values are mole percentages.
                                                      -2-

   A liposome may include an amphiphilic lipid whose hydrophilic portion is PEGylated (i.e. modified
   by covalent attachment of a polyethylene glycol). This modification can increase stability and
   prevent non-specific adsorption of the liposomes, For instance, lipids can be conjugated to PEG
   using techniques such as those disclosed in reference 2 and 3. PEG provides the liposomes with a
 5 coat which can confer favourable pharmacokinetic characteristics. Various lengths of PEG can be
   used e.g. between 0.5-8kDa.
   Thus a liposome can be formed from a cationic lipid (e.g. DlinDMA, RV05), a zwitterionic lipid (e.g.
   DSPC, DPyPE), a cholesterol, and a PEGylated lipid. A mixture of DSPC, DlinDMA, PEG-DMG
   and cholesterol is used in the examples, as well as several further mixtures.
 0 Liposomes are usually divided into three groups: multilamellar vesicles (MLV); small unilamellar
   vesicles (SUV); and large unilamellar vesicles (LUV). MLVs have multiple bilayers in each vesicle,
   forming several separate aqueous compartments. SUVs and LUVs have a single bilayer
   encapsulating an aqueous core; SUVs typically have a diameter <50nm, and LUVs have a diameter
   >50mn. Liposomes of the invention are ideally LUVs with a diameter in the range of 60-180nm, and
 5 preferably in the range of 80-160m. The liposomes preferably are substantially spherical. If they are
   not spherical, the term "diameter" refers to a liposome's largest cross-sectional diameter.
   A liposome of the invention can be part of a composition comprising a plurality of liposomes, and
   the liposomes within the plurality can have a range of diameters. For a composition comprising a
   population of liposomes with different diameters: (i) at least 80% by number of the liposomes should
 0 have diameters in the range of 60-180mn, and preferably in the range of 80-160mn, and/or (ii) the
   average diameter (by intensity e.g. Z-average) of the population is ideally in the range of 60-180mn,
   and preferably in the range of 80-160nm.
   Ideally, the distribution of liposome sizes (by intensity) has only one maximum i.e. there is a single
   population of liposomes distributed around an average (mode), rather than having two maxima. The
!5 diameters within a population of liposomes should ideally have a polydispersity index <0.2, and
   sometimes <0.1. The liposome/RNA complexes of reference 1 are expected to have a diameter in the
   range of 600-800nm and to have a high polydispersity.
   Apparatuses for determining the average particle diameter in a suspension of liposomes, and the size
   distribution, are commercially available. These typically use the techniques of dynamic light
 0 scattering and/or single-particle optical sensing e.g. the AccusizerTa and NicompT" series of
   instruments available from Particle Sizing Systems (Santa Barbara, USA), or the Zetasizer"
   instruments from Malvern Instruments (UK), or the Particle Size Distribution Analyzer instruments
   from Horiba (Kyoto, Japan). Dynamic light scattering is the preferred method by which liposome
   diameters are determined. For a population of liposomes, the preferred method for defining the
 5 average liposome diameter in a composition of the invention is a Z-average i.e. the intensity
   weighted mean hydrodynamic size of the ensemble collection of liposomes measured by dynamic
                                                      -3-

  light scattering (DLS). The Z-average is derived from cumulants analysis of the measured correlation
  curve, wherein a single particle size liposomee diameter) is assumed and a single exponential fit is
  applied to the autocorrelation function. The cumulants analysis algorithm does not yield a
  distribution but, in addition to an intensity-weighted Z-average, gives a polydispersity index.
5 Techniques for preparing suitable liposomes are well known in the art e.g. see references 4 to 6. One
  useful method is described in reference 7 and involves mixing (i) an ethanolic solution of the lipids
  (ii) an aqueous solution of the nucleic acid and (iii) buffer, followed by mixing, equilibration,
  dilution and purification. Preferred liposomes of the invention are obtainable by this mixing process.
  To obtain liposomes with the desired diameter(s), mixing can be performed using a process in which
0 two feed streams of aqueous RNA solution are combined in a single mixing zone with one stream of
  an ethanolic lipid solution, all at the same flow rate e.g. in a microfluidic channel as described below.
  The RNA
  Liposomes of the invention include a RNA molecule which (unlike siRNA) encodes an immunogen.
  After in vivo administration of the particles, RNA is released from the particles and is translated
5 inside a cell to provide the immunogen in situ.
  The RNA is +-stranded, and so it can be translated by cells without needing any intervening
  replication steps such as reverse transcription. It can also bind to TLR7 receptors expressed by
  immune cells, thereby initiating an adjuvant effect.
  Preferred +-stranded RNAs are self-replicating. A self-replicating RNA molecule (replicon) can,
0 when delivered to a vertebrate cell even without any proteins, lead to the production of multiple
  daughter RNAs by transcription from itself (via an antisense copy which it generates from itself). A
  self-replicating RNA molecule is thus typically a +-strand molecule which can be directly translated
  after delivery to a cell, and this translation provides a RNA-dependent RNA polymerase which then
  produces both antisense and sense transcripts from the delivered RNA. Thus the delivered RNA
5 leads to the production of multiple daughter RNAs. These daughter RNAs, as well as collinear
  subgenomic transcripts, may be translated themselves to provide in situ expression of an encoded
  immunogen, or may be transcribed to provide further transcripts with the same sense as the delivered
  RNA which are translated to provide in situ expression of the immunogen. The overall result of this
  sequence of transcriptions is a huge amplification in the number of the introduced replicon RNAs
0 and so the encoded immunogen becomes a major polypeptide product of the cells.
  One suitable system for achieving self-replication is to use an alphavirus-based RNA replicon. These
  +-stranded replicons are translated after delivery to a cell to give of a replicase (or replicase
  transcriptase). The replicase is translated as a polyprotein which auto-cleaves to provide a replication
  complex which creates genomic -strand          copies of the +-strand delivered RNA. These -strand
5 transcripts can themselves be transcribed to give further copies of the +-stranded parent RNA and
  also to give a subgenornic transcript which encodes the immunogen. Translation of the subgenomic
                                                      -4-

   transcript thus leads to in situ expression of the immunogen by the infected cell. Suitable alphavirus
   replicons can use a replicase from a Sindbis virus, a Semliki forest virus, an eastern equine
   encephalitis virus, a Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus, etc. Mutant or wild-type viruses
   sequences can be used e.g. the attenuated TC83 mutant of VEEV has been used in replicons [8].
 5 A preferred self-replicating RNA molecule thus encodes (i) a RNA-dependent RNA polymerase
   which can transcribe RNA from the self-replicating RNA molecule and (ii) an immunogen. The
   polymemse can be an alphavirus replicase e.g. comprising one or more of alphavirus proteins nsP I,
   nsP2, nsP3 and nsP4,
   Whereas natural alphavirus genomes encode structural virion proteins in addition to the
 0 non-structural replicase polyprotein, it is preferred that a self-replicating RNA molecule of the
   invention does not encode alphavirus structural proteins. Thus a preferred self-replicating RNA can
   lead to the production of genomic RNA copies of itself in a cell, but not to the production of RNA
   containing virions. The inability to produce these virions means that, unlike a wild-type alphavirus,
   the self-replicating RNA molecule cannot perpetuate itself in infectious form. The alphavirus
 5 structural proteins which are necessary for perpetuation in wild-type viruses are absent from
   self-replicating RNAs of the invention and their place is taken by genes) encoding the immunogen
   of interest, such that the subgenomic transcript encodes the immunogen rather than the structural
   alphavirus virion proteins.
   Thus a self-replicating RNA molecule useful with the invention may have two open reading frames.
 0 The first (5) open reading frame encodes a replicase; the second (3') open reading frame encodes an
   immunogen. In some embodiments the RNA may have additional (e.g. downstream) open reading
   frames e.g. to encode further immunogens (see below) or to encode accessory polypeptides.
   A self-replicating RNA molecule can have a 5' sequence which is compatible with the encoded
   replicase.
!5 Self-replicating RNA molecules can have various lengths but they are typically 5000-25000
   nucleotides long e.g. 8000-15000 nucleotides, or 9000-12000 nucleotides. Thus the RNA is longer
   than seen in siRNA delivery.
   A RNA molecule useful with the invention may have a 5' cap (e.g. a 7-methylguanosine). This cap
   can enhance in vivo translation of the RNA.
 0 The 5' nucleotide of a RNA molecule useful with the invention may have a 5' triphosphate group. In
   a capped RNA this may be linked to a 7-methylguanosine via a 5'-to-5' bridge. A 5' triphosphate can
   enhance RIG-I binding and thus promote adjuvant effects.
   A RNA molecule may have a 3 poly-A tail. It may also include a poly-A polymerase recognition
   sequence (e.g. AAUAAA) near its 3 end.
                                                       -5-

   A RNA molecule useful with the invention will typically be single-stranded. Single-stranded RNAs
   can generally initiate an adjuvant effect by binding to TLR7, TLR8, RNA helicases and/or PKR.
   RNA delivered in double-stranded form (dsRNA) can bind to TLR3, and this receptor can also be
   triggered by dsRNA which is formed either during replication of a single-stranded RNA or within the
 5 secondary structure of a single-stranded RNA.
   A RNA molecule useful with the invention can conveniently be prepared by in vitro transcription
   (IVT). IVT can use a (cDNA) template created and propagated in plasmid form in bacteria, or
   created synthetically (for example by gene synthesis and/or polymerase chain-reaction engineering
   methods). For instance, a DNA-dependent RNA polymerase (such as the bacteriophage T7, T3 or
 0 SP6 RNA polymerases) can be used to transcribe the RNA from a DNA template. Appropriate
   capping and poly-A addition reactions can be used as required (although the replicon's poly-A is
   usually encoded within the DNA template). These RNA polymerases can have stringent
   requirements for the transcribed 5' nucleotide(s) and in some embodiments these requirements must
   be matched with the requirements of the encoded replicase, to ensure that the IT-transcribed RNA
 5 can function efficiently as a substrate for its self-encoded replicase.
   As discussed in reference 9, the self-replicating RNA can include (in addition to any 5' cap structure)
   one or more nucleotides having a modified nucleobase. Thus the RNA can comprise m5C (5
   methylcytidine), m5U (5-methyluridine), m6A (N6-methyladenosine), s2U (2-thiouridine), Um (2'
   0-methyluridine),      mIA       (1-methyladenosine);       m2A        (2-methyladenosine);        Am       (2'-0
 0 methyladenosine); ms2m6A (2-methylthio-N6-methyladenosine);                   i6A (N6-isopentenyladenosine);
   ms2i6A (2-methylthio-N6isopentenyladenosine);             io6A     (N6-(cis-hydroxyisopentenyl)adenosine);
   ms2io6A          (2-methylthio-N6-(cis-hydroxyisopentenyl)                  adenosine);        g6A           (N6
   glycinylcarbamoyladenosine); t6A (N6-threonyl carbamoyladenosine); ms2t6A (2-methyltlhio-N6
   threonyl carbamoyladenosine); m616A (N6-methyl-N6-threonylcarbamoyladenosine);                        hn6A(N6.
Z5 hydroxynorvalylcarbamoyl             adenosine);        ms2hn6A            (2-methylthio-N6-hydroxynorvalyl
   carbamoyladenosine);      Ar(p)      (2'-O-ribosyladenosine       (phosphate));     I   (inosine);     tl 1    (1
   methylinosine); m'Im (1,2'-O-dimethylinosine); m3C (3-methyleytidine); Cm (2T-0-methylcytidine);
   s2C    (2-thiocytidine);   ac4C      (N4-acetyleytidine);      f5C    (5-fonmyleytidine);     m5Cm        (5,2-0
   dimethyleytidine); ac4Cm (N4acetyl2TOmethylcytidine); k2C (lysidine); mlG (1-methylguanosine);
 0 m2G     (N2-methylguanosine);       m7G     (7-methylguanosine);      Gm (2-0-methylguanosine);            m22G
   (N2,N2-dimethylguanosine);          m2Gm        (N2,2'--dimethylguanosine);           m22Gm        (N2,N2,2'-O
   trimethylguanosine);     Gr(p)    (2'-O-ribosylguanosine      (phosphate))      ; yW     (wybutosine);     o2yW
   (peroxywybutosine); OHyW (hydroxywybutosine); OHyW* (undermodified hydroxywybutosine);
   imG (wyosine); mimG (methylguanosine);           Q (queuosine);    oQ (epoxyqueuosine); galQ (galtactosyl
 5 queuosine);    manQ      (mannosyl-queuosine);        preQo      (7-cyano-7-deazaguanosine);         preQi     (7
   aminomethyl-7-deazaguanosine);           G*    (archaeosine);     D     (dihydrouridine);    m5Um        (5,2'-0
   dimethyluridine);    s4U    (4-thiouridine);     m5s2U    (5-methyl-2-thiouridine);       s2Um (2-thio-2'-0
                                                         -6-

  methyluridine); acp3U (3-(3-amino-3-carboxypropyl)uridine); ho5U (5-hydroxyuridine); mo5U (5
  methoxyuridine); cmo5U (uridine 5-oxyacetic acid); mcmo5U (uridine 5-oxyacetic acid methyl
  ester); chm5U (5-(carboxyhydroxynethyl)uridine));          mchm5U (5-(carboxyhydroxymethyl)uridine
  methyl ester); mcm5U (5-methoxycarbonyl methyluridine); meni5Urn (S-methoxycarbonylmethyl-2
5 0-methyluridine); mcm5s2U (5-methoxycarbonylmethyl-2-thiouridine); nm5s2U (5-aminomethyl-2
  thiouridine);    mnm5U      (5-methylaminomethyliridine);        mnm5s2U         (5-methylaminomethyl-2
  thiouridine);  mnm5se2U       (5-methylaminomethyl-2-selenouridine);        ncm5U     (5-carbamoylmethyl
  uridine);        nem5Um            (5-carbamoylmethyl-2'-O-methyluridine);             cmnm5U           (5
  carboxymethylaminomethyluridine);                cnmm5Um             (5-carboxymethylaminomethyl-2-L
0 Omethyluridine);     cmnm5s2U         (5-carboxymethylaminomethyl-2-thiouridine);        m62A     (N6,N6
  dimethyladenosine);    Tm     (2-0-methylinosine);       m4C   (N4-methyleytidine);     m4Cm (N4,2-0
  dimethylcytidine);    hm5C      (5-hydroxymethylcytidine);      m3U     (3-methyluridine);     cm5U     (5
  carboxymethyluridine);        m6Am          (N6,T-O-dimethyladenosine);         rn62Am        (N6,N6,0-2
  trimethyladenosine);   m2'7G (N2,7-dimethylguanosine);          m2'2'7G (N2,N2,7-trimethylguanosine);
5 m3Um       (3,2T-0-dimethyluridine);        m5D    (5-methyldihydrouridine);      f5Cm     (5-formyl-2'-O
  methylcytidine);     mlGm       (1,2-O-dimethylguanosine);       m'Am      (1,2-0-dimethyl      adenosine)
  irinomethyluridine); tm5s2U (S-taurinomethyl-2-thiouridine));         imG-14 (4-demethyl guanosine);
  imG2 (isoguanosine); or ac6A (N6-acetyladenosine), hypoxanthine, inosine, 8-oxo-adenine, 7
  substituted derivatives thereof, dibydrouracil, pseudouracil, 2-thiouracil, 4-thiouracil, 5-aminouracil,
0 5-(Cl-C6)-alkyluracil,    5-methyluracil,      5-(C2-C6)-alkenyluracil,     5-(C2-C6)-alkynyluracil,     5
  (hydroxymethyl)uracil, 5-chlorouracil, 5-fluorouracil, 5-bromouracil, 5-hydroxycytosine, 5-(CI-C6
  )-alkylkytosine,   5-methylcytosine,       5-(C2-C6)-alkenylcytosine,    5-(C2-C6)-alkynylcytosine,      5
  chlorocytosine,   5-fluorocytosine,      5-bromocytosine,   N2-dimethylguanine,      7-deazaguanine,     8
  azaguanine, 7-deaza-7-substituted guanine, 7-deaza-7-(C2-C6)alkynylguanine, 7-deaza-8-substituted
5 guanine, 8-hydroxyguanine, 6-thioguanine, 8-oxoguanine, 2-aminopurine, 2-amino-6-chloropurine,
  2,4-diaminopurine, 2,6-diaminopurine, 8-azapurine, substituted 7-deazapurine, 7-deaza-7-substituted
  purine, 7-deaza-8-substituted purine, or an abasic nucleotide. For instance, a self-replicating RNA
  can include one or more modified pyrimidine nucleobases,                 such as pseudouridine      and/or
  5-methylcytosine residues. In some embodiments, however, the RNA includes no modified
0 nucleobases, and may include no modified nucleotides i.e. all of the nucleotides in the RNA are
  standard A, C, G and U ribonucleotides (except for any 5' cap structure, which may include a
  7-methylguanosine). In other embodiments, the RNA may include a 5' cap comprising a
  7'-methylguanosine, and the first 1, 2 or 3 5' ribonucleotides may be methylated at the 2' position of
  the ribose.
5 A RNA used with the invention ideally includes only phosphodiester linkages between nucleosides,
  but    in   some   embodiments       it   can   contain   phosphoramidate,     phosphorothioate,    and/or
  metbylphosphonate linkages.
                                                       -7-

  Ideally, a liposome includes fewer than 10 different species of RNA e.g. 5, 4, 3, or 2 different
  species; most preferably, a liposome includes a single RNA species i.e. all RNA molecules in the
  liposome have the same sequence and same length.
  The amount of RNA per liposome can vary. The number of individual self-replicating RNA
5 molecules per liposome is typically <50 e.g. <20, <10, <5, or 1-4 per liposome.
  The immanogen
  RNA molecules used with the invention encode a polypeptide immunogen. After administration of
  the liposomes the RNA is translated in vivo and the immunogen can elicit an immune response in the
  recipient. The immunogen may elicit an immune response against a bacterium, a virus, a fungus or a
0 parasite (or, in some embodiments, against an allergen; and in other embodiments, against a tumor
  antigen). The immune response may comprise an antibody response (usually including IgG) and/or a
  cell-mediated immune response. The polypeptide immunogen will typically elicit an immune
  response which recognises the corresponding bacterial, viral, fungal or parasite (or allergen or
  tumour) polypeptide, but in some embodiments the polypeptide may act as a mimotope to elicit an
5 immune response which recognises a bacterial, viral, fungal or parasite saccharide. The immunogen
  will typically be a surface polypeptide e.g. an adhesin, a hemagglutinin, an envelope glycoprotein, a
  spike glycoprotein, etc.
  The RNA molecule can encode a single polypeptide immunogen or multiple polypeptides. Multiple
  inunogens can be presented as a single polypeptide immunogen (fusion polypeptide) or as separate
0 polypeptides. If immunogens are expressed as separate polypeptides from a replicon then one or
  more of these may be provided with an upstream IRES or an additional viral promoter element.
  Alternatively, multiple immunogens may be expressed from a polyprotein that encodes individual
  immunogens fused to a short autocatalytic protease (e.g. foot-and-mouth disease vims 2A protein), or
  as inteins.
5 Unlike references I and 10, the RNA encodes an immunogen. For the avoidance of doubt, the
  invention does not encompass RNA which encodes a firefly luciferase or which encodes a fusion
  protein of Eco/i p-galactosidase or which encodes a green fluorescent protein (GFP). Such
  polypeptides may be useful as markers, or even in a gene therapy context, but the invention concerns
  delivery of RNA for eliciting an immunological response system. The optimum diameter of
0 liposomes for gene therapy can differ from liposomes for immunisation purposes because target cells
  and tissues differ for these two approaches. Thus the immunogen also is not a self protein which is
  delivered to supplement or substitute for a defective host protein (as in gene therapy). Also, the RNA
  is not total mouse thymus RNA.
  In some embodiments the immunogen elicits an immune response against one of these bacteria:
                                                    -8-

   Neisseria meningitidis: useful immunogens include, but are not limited to, membrane proteins
      such as adhesins, autotransporters, toxins, iron acquisition proteins, and factor H binding
      protein, A combination of three useful polypeptides is disclosed in reference 11
   Streptococcus pneumoniae: useful polypeptide immunogens are disclosed in reference 12. These
 5    include, but are not limited to, the RrgB plus subunit, the beta-N-acetyl-hexosaminidase
      precursor (spr0057),     spr0096,    General   stress protein GSP-781      (spr2021, SP2216),
      serine/threonine kinase StkP (SP1732), and pneumococcal surface adhesin PsaA.
   Streptococcus pyogenes: useful immunogens include, but are not limited to, the polypeptides
      disclosed in references 13 and 14.
 o Moraxella catarrhalis.
   Bordetellapertussis: Useful pertussis immunogens include, but are not limited to, pertussis toxin
      or toxoid (PT), filamentous haemagglutinin (FHA), pertactin, and agglutinogens 2 and 3.
   Staphylococcus aureus: Useful immunogens include, but are not limited to, the polypeptides
      disclosed in reference 15, such as a hemolysin, esxA, esxB, ferrichrome-binding protein
 5    (sta006) and/or the sta0 11 lipoprotein.
   Clostridiumtetani: the typical immunogen is tetanus toxoid.
   Corynebacteriumdiphtheriae:the typical immunogen is diphtheria toxoid.
   Haemophilus influenzae: Useful immunogens include, but are not limited to, the polypeptides
      disclosed in references 16 and 17.
 o Pseudomonas aeruginosa
   Streptococcus agalactiae:useful immunogens include, but are not limited to, the polypeptides
      disclosed in reference 13.
   Chlamydia trachomatis: Useful immunogens include, but are not limited to, PepA, LcrE, ArtJ,
      DnaK, CT398, OmpH-like, L7/L12, OmcA, AtoS, CT547, Eno, HtrA and MurG (e.g. as
 5    disclosed in reference 18. LerE [19] and HtrA [20] are two preferred immunogens.
   ChIamydia pneumoniae: Useful immunogens include, but are not limited to, the polypeptides
      disclosed in reference 21.
   Helicobacterpylori: Useful immunogens include, but are not limited to, CagA, VacA, NAP,
      and/or grease [22].
;0 Escherichiacol: Useful immunogens include, but are not limited to, immunogens derived from
      enterotoxigenic E. coil (ETEC), enteroaggregative E. coli (EAggEC), diffusely adhering E.
      coli (DAEC), enteropathogenic E. coli (EPEC), extraintestinal pathogenic E. coli (ExPEC)
      and/or enterohemorrhagic E coli (EHEC). ExPEC strains include uropathogenic Ecoli
      (UPEC) and meningitis/sepsis-associated         Ecoli (MNEC). Useful        UPEC polypeptide
                                                   -9-

          immunogens are disclosed in references 23 and 24. Useful MNEC immunogens are disclosed
          in reference 25. A useful inmmnogen for several Ecoli types is AcfD [26].
      Bacillus anthracis
      Yersinia pestis: Useful immunogens include, but are not limited to, those disclosed in references
 5        27 and 28.
      Staphylococcus epidermis
      Clostridiumperfringensor Clostridium botdinums
      Legionellapneumophila
      Coxiella burnetii
 0    Brucella, such as B.abortus,Bcanis, B.melitensis, B.neotomae, B.ovis, B.suis, B.pinnipediae.
      Francisella,such as F.novicida,F.philomiragia,F.tularensis.
      Neisseriagonorrhoeae
      Treponemapallidum
      Haemophilus ducreyi
 5    Enterococcusfaecalisor Enterococcusfaecium
      Staphylococcus saprophyticus
      Yersinia enterocolitica
      Mycobacterium tuberculosis
      Rickettsia
 0    Listeria monocytogenes
      Vihrio cholerae
      Salmonella typhi
      Borrelia burgdorferi
      Porphyromonasgingivalis
 5    Klebsiella
   In some embodiments the immunogen elicits an immune response against one of these viruses:
      Orthomyxovirus: Useful immunogens can be from an influenza A, B or C virus, such as the
         hemagglutinin, neuraminidase or matrix M2 proteins. Where the immunogen is an influenza
         A virus hemagglutinin it may be from any subtype e.g. HI, H2, H3, H4, H5, H6, H7, H8, H9,
50        HIO, H 1, H12, H13, H14, H15 or H16.
                                                   -10-

  Paramyxoviridaeviruses: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from
     Pneumoviruses (e.g. respiratory syncytial virus, RSV), Rubulaviruses (e.g. mumps virus),
     Paramyxoviruses (e.g. parainfluenza virus), Metapneumoviruses and Morbilliviruses (e.g.
     measles virus).
5 Poxviridae: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from Orthopoxvirus
     such as Variola vera, including but not limited to, Variola major and Variola minor.
  Picornavirus: Viral immunogens          include, but are not limited to, those derived from
     Picornaviruses, such as Enteroviruses, Rhinoviruses, Heparnavirus, Cardioviruses and
     Aphthoviruses. In one embodiment, the enterovirus is a poliovirus e.g. a type 1, type 2 and/or
0    type 3 poliovirus. In another embodiment, the enterovirus is an EV71 enterovirus. I another
     embodiment, the enterovirus is a coxsackie A or B virus.
  Bunyavirus: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from an
     Orthobunyavirus, such as California encephalitis virus, a Phlebovirus, such as Rift Valley
     Fever virus, or a Nairovirus, such as Crimean-Congohemorrhagicfevervirus.
5 Heparnavirus: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from a
     Heparnavirus, such as hepatitis A virus (HAV).
  Filovirus: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from a filovins, such
     as an Ebola virus (including a Zaire, Ivory Coast, Reston or Sudan ebolavirus) or a Marburg
     virus.
0 Togavirus: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from a Togavirus,
     such as a Rubivirus, an Alphavirus, or an Arterivints, This includes rubella vitus.
  Flavivirus: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from a Flavivirus,
     such as Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) virus, Dengue (types 1, 2, 3 or 4) virus, Yellow Fever
     virus, Japanese encephalitis virus, Kyasanur Forest Virus, West Nile encephalitis virus, St.
5    Louis encephalitis virus, Russian spring-summer encephalitis virus, Powassan encephalitis
     virus.
  Pestivirus: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from a Pestivirus,
     such as Bovine viral diarrhea (BVDV), Classical swine fever (CSFV) or Border disease
     (BDV).
0 Hepadnavirus: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from a
     Hepadnavirus, such as Hepatitis B virus. A composition can include hepatitis B virus surface
     antigen (HBsAg).
  Other hepatitis viruses: A composition can include an immunogen from a hepatitis C virus, delta
     hepatitis virus, hepatitis E virus, or hepatitis G virus.
                                                    -11-

     Rhabdovirus: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from a
         Rhabdovirus, such as a Lyssavirus (e.g. a Rabies virus) and Vesiculovirus (VSV),
     Caliciviridae:Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from Calciviridae,
         such as Norwalk virus (Norovirus), and Norwalk-like Viruses, such as Hawaii Virus and
5        Snow Mountain Virus.
     Coronavirus: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from a SARS
         coronavirus, avian infectious bronchitis (IBV), Mouse hepatitis virus (MHV), and Porcine
         transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV). The coronavirus immunogen may be a spike
         polypeptide.
0    Retrovirus: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from an Oncovirus, a
         Lentivirus (e.g. HIV- I or HIV-2) or a Spumavirus.
     Reovirus: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from an Orthoreovirus,
         a Rotavirus, an Orbivirus, or a Coltivirus.
     Parvovirus: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from Parvovirus
5        B19.
     Herpesvirus: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from a human
         herpesvirus, such as, by way of example only, Herpes Simplex Viruses (HSV) (e.g. HSV
         types I and 2), Varicella-zoster virus (VZV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), Cytomegalovirus
         (CMV), Human Herpesvins 6 (HHV6), Human Herpesvinis 7 (HH1V7), and Human
0        Herpesvirus 8 (HHV8).
     Papovaviruses: Viral immunogens include, but are not limited to, those derived from
         Papillomaviruses and Polyomaviruses. The (human) papillomavirus may be of serotype 1, 2,
         4, 5, 6, 8, I1, 13, 16, 18, 31, 33, 35, 39, 41, 42, 47, 51, 57, 58, 63 or 65 e.g. from one or more
         of serotypes 6, 11, 16 and/or 18.
5    Adenovirus: Viral immunogens include those derived from adenovirus serotype 36 (Ad-36).
  In some embodiments, the immunogen elicits an immune response against a virus which infects fish,
  such as: infectious salmon anemia virus (ISAV), salmon pancreatic disease virus (SPDV), infectious
  pancreatic necrosis virus (IPNV), channel catfish virus (CCV), fish lymphocystis disease virus
  (FLDV), infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHNV), koi herpesvirus, salmon picorna-like virus
0 (also known as picorna-like virus of atlantic salmon), landlocked salmon virus (LSV), atlantic
  salmon rotavirus (ASR), trout strawberry disease virus (TSD), coho salmon tumor virus (CSTV), or
  viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus (VHSV).
  Fungal immunogens may be derived from Dermatophytres, including: Epidermophyton floccusum,
  Microsporum audouini, Microsporm canis, Microsporum distortum, Microsporum equinum,
5 Microsporum gypsum, Microsporum nanum, Trichophyton concentricum, Trichophyton equinum,
                                                       -12-

   Trichophyton       gallinae,   Trichophyton      gypseum,     Trichophyton    megnini,     Trichophyton
   nentagrophytes, Trichophyton quinckeanum, Trichophyton rubrum,               Trichophyton schoenleini,
   Trichophyton tonsurans, Trichophyton verrucosum, T. vemicosum var, album, var. discoides, var.
   ochraceum, Trichophyton violaceum, and/or Trichophytonfaviforme: or from Aspergillusfnigatus,
 5 Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus terreus, Aspergillus sydowi,
   Aspergillus flavatus, Aspergillus glaucus, Blastoschizomyces capitatus, Candida albicans, Candida
   enolase, Candida tropicalis, Candida glabrata, Candida krusei, Candida parapsilosis, Candida
   stellatoidea, Candida kusei, Candida parakwsei, Candida lusitaniae, Candida pseudotropicalis,
   Candida guilliennondi, Cladosporium carrionii, Coccidioides immitis, Blastomyces dernatidis,
 0 Cryptococcus neoformans, Geotrichum clavatum, Histoplasma capsulatum, Klebsiella pneumoniae,
   Microsporidia, Encephalitozoon spp., Septata intestinalis and Enterocytozoon bieneusi; the less
   common       are   Brachiola spp,      Microsporidium spp.,       Nosema    spp.,  Pleistophora spp.,
   Trachipleistophora spp., Vittaforma spp Paracoccidioides brasiliensis, Pneumocystis carinii,
   Pythiumn insidiosum, Pityrosporum ovale, Sacharomyces cerevisae, Saccharomyces boulardii,
 5 Saccharomyces pombe, Scedosporium apiosperum, Sporothrix schenckii, Trichosporon beigelfl,
   Toxoplasma gondli, Penicillium marneffei, Malassezia spp., Fonsecaea spp., Wangiella spp.,
   Sporothrix spp., Basidiobolus spp., Conidiobolus spp., Rhizopus spp, Mucor spp, Absidia spp,
   Mortierella spp, Cunninghamella spp,            Saksenaea spp.,    Alternaria spp, Curvularia spp,
   Helminthosporium spp, Fusariumspp, Aspergillus spp, Penicillium spp, Mono!inia spp, Rhizoctonia
 0 spp, Paecilomyces spp, Pithomyces spp, and Cladosporiumspp.
   In some embodiments the immunogen elicits an immune response against a parasite from the
   Plasmodium genus, such as P.falciparum,P.vivax, P.malariaeor Povale. Thus the invention may be
   used for immunising against malaria. In some embodiments the immunogen elicits an immune
   response against a parasite from the Caligidaefamily, particularly those from the Lepeophtheirus and
 5 Caligus genera e.g. sea lice such as Lepeophtheirus salmonis or Caligus rogercresseyi.
   In some embodiments the immunogen elicits an immune response against: pollen allergens (tree-,
   herb, weed-, and grass pollen allergens); insect or arachnid allergens (inhalant, saliva and venom
   allergens, e.g. mite allergens, cockroach and midges allergens, hymenopthera venom allergens);
   animal hair and dandruff allergens (from e.g. dog, cat, horse, rat, mouse, etc.); and food allergens
50 (e.g. a gliadin). Important pollen allergens from trees, grasses and herbs are such originating from the
   taxonomic orders of Fagales, Oleales, Pinales and platanaceae including, but not limited to, birch
   (Betula), alder (Alnus), hazel (Corylus), hornbeam (Carpinus) and olive (Olea), cedar (Cryptomeria
   and Juniperus), plane tree (Platanus), the order of Poales including grasses of the genera Lolium,
   Phleum, Poa, Cynodon, Dactylis, Holcus, Phalaris, Secale, and Sorghum, the orders of Asterales and
 5 Urticales including herbs of the genera Ambrosia, Artemisia, and Parietaria. Other important
   inhalation allergens are those from house dust mites of the genus Dermatophagoides                   and
   Euroglyphus, storage mite e.g. Lepidoglyphys, Glycyphagus               and Tyrophagus,     those from
                                                      -13-

  cockroaches, midges and fleas eg. Blatella, Periplaneta, Chironomus and Ctenocepphalides, and
  those from mammals such as cat, dog and horse, venom allergens including such originating from
  stinging or biting insects such as those from the taxonomic order of Hymenoptera including bees
  (Apidae), wasps (Vespidea), and ants (Formicoidae).
5 In some embodiments the immunogen is a tumor antigen selected from: (a) cancer-testis antigens
  such as NY-ESO-1, SSX2, SCPI as well as RAGE, BAGE, GAGE and MAGE family polypeptides,
  for example, GAGE-1, GAGE-2, MAGE-1, MAGE-2, MAGE-3, MAGE-4, MAGE-5, MAGE-6, and
  MAGE-12 (which can be used, for example, to address melanoma, lung, head and neck, NSCLC,
  breast, gastrointestinal, and bladder tumors; (b) mutated antigens, for example, p5 3 (associated with
0 various solid tumors, e.g., colorectal, lung, head and neck cancer), p21/Ras (associated with, e.g.,
  melanoma, pancreatic cancer and colorectal cancer), CDK4 (associated with, e.g., melanoma),
  MUMI (associated with, e.g., melanoma), caspase-8 (associated with, e.g., head and neck cancer),
  CIA 0205 (associated with, e.g., bladder cancer), HLA-A2-R1701, beta catenin (associated with, e.g.,
  melanoma), TCR (associated with, e.g., T-cell non-Hodgkins lymphoma), BCR-abl (associated with,
5 e.g., chronic myelogenous leukemia), triosephosphate isomerase, KIA 0205, CDC-27, and LDLR
  FUT; (c) over-expressed antigens, for example, Galectin 4 (associated with, e.g., colorectal cancer),
  Galectin 9 (associated with, e.g., Hodgkin's disease), proteinase 3 (associated with, e.g., chronic
  myelogenous leukemia), WT I (associated with, e.g., various leukemias), carbonic anhydrase
  (associated with, e.g., renal cancer), aldolase A (associated with, e.g., lung cancer), PRAME
0 (associated with, e.g., melanoma), HER-2/neu (associated with, e.g., breast, colon, lung and ovarian
  cancer), manmaglobin, alpha-fetoprotein (associated with, e.g., hepatoma), KSA (associated with,
  e.g., colorectal cancer), gastrin (associated with, e.g., pancreatic and gastric cancer), telomerase
  catalytic protein, MUC-1 (associated with, e.g., breast and ovarian cancer), G-250 (associated with,
  e.g., renal cell carcinoma), p53 (associated with, e.g., breast, colon cancer), and carcinoembryonic
5 antigen (associated with, e.g., breast cancer, lung cancer, and cancers of the gastrointestinal tract
  such as colorectal cancer); (d) shared antigens, for example, melanoma-melanocyte differentiation
  antigens such as MART-1/Melan A, gpOO, MCIR, melanocyte-stimulating hormone receptor,
  tyrosinase, tyrosinase related protein-l/TRPI and tyrosinase related protein-2/TRP2 (associated with,
  e.g., melanoma); (e) prostate associated antigens such as PAP, PSA, PSMA, PSH-Pl, PSM-Pl,
0 PSM-P2, associated with e.g., prostate cancer; (f) immunoglobulin idiotypes (associated with
  myeloma and B cell lymphomas, for example). In certain embodiments, tumor immunogens include,
  but are not limited to, p15, Hom/Mel-40, H-Ras, E2A-PRL, H4-RET, IGH-IGK, MYL-RAR, Epstein
  Barr virus antigens, EBNA, human papillomavirus (HPV) antigens, including E6 and E7, hepatitis B
  and C virus antigens, human T-cell lymphotropic virus antigens, TSP-180, pl85erbB2, pl8OerbB-3,
5 c-met, mn-23H1, TAG-72-4, CA 19-9, CA 72-4, CAM 17.1, NuMa, K-ras, p16, TAGE, PSCA, CT7,
  43-9F, 5T4, 791 Tgp72, beta-HCG, BCA225, BTAA, CA 125, CA 15-3 (CA 27.29\BCAA), CA 195,
  CA 242, CA-50, CAM43, CD68\KPI, CO-029, FGF-5, Ga733 (EpCAM), HTgp-175, M344, MA
                                                    -14-

  50, MG7-Ag,        MOVI8, NB/70K, NY-CO-i,              RCASI, SDCCAGI6, TA-90 (Mac-2 binding
  protein/cyclophilin C-associated protein), TAAL6, TAG72, TLP, TPS, and the like.
  Pharmaceutical compositions
  Liposomes of the invention are useful as components in pharmaceutical compositions for
5 immunising subjects against various diseases. These compositions will typically include a
  pharmaceutically acceptable carrier in addition to the liposomes. A thorough discussion of
  pharmaceutically acceptable carriers is available in reference 29.
  A pharmaceutical       composition of the invention may include one or more small molecule
  immunopotentiators. For example, the composition may include a TLR2 agonist (e.g. Pam3CSK4), a
0 TLR4 agonist (e.g. an aminoalkyl glucosaminide phosphate, such as E6020), a TLR7 agonist (e.g.
  imiquimod), a TLR8 agonist (e.g. resiquimod) and/or a TLR9 agonist (e.g. IC31). Any such agonist
  ideally has a molecular weight of <2000Da. In some embodiments such agonist(s) are also
  encapsulated with the RNA inside liposomes, but in other embodiments they are unencapsulated.
  Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may include the liposomes in plain water (e.g. w.f.i.)
5 or in a buffer e.g. a phosphate buffer, a Tris buffer, a borate buffer, a succinate buffer, a histidine
  buffer, or a citrate buffer. Buffer salts will typically be included in the 5-20mM range.
  Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may have a pH between 5.0 and 9.5 e.g. between 6.0
  and 8.0.
  Compositions of the invention may include sodium salts (e.g. sodium chloride) to give tonicity. A
0 concentration of 10±2 mg/ml NaCl is typical e.g. about 9 mg/ml.
  Compositions of the invention may include metal ion chelators. These can prolong RNA stability by
  removing ions which can accelerate phosphodiester hydrolysis. Thus a composition may include one
  or more of EDTA, EGTA, BAPTA, pentetic acid, etc.. Such chelators are typically present at
  between 10-500pM e.g. 0.1mM. A citrate salt, such as sodium citrate, can also act as a chelator,
5 while advantageously also providing buffering activity.
  Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may have an osmolality of between 200 mOsm/kg and
  400 mOsm/kg, e.g. between 240-360 mOsm/kg, or between 290-3 10 mOsm/kg.
  Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may include one or more preservatives, such as
  thiomersal or 2-phenoxyethanol. Mercury-free compositions are preferred, and preservative-free
0 vaccines can be prepared.
  Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention are preferably sterile.
  Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention are preferably non-pyrogenic e.g. containing <1 EU
  (endotoxin unit, a standard measure) per dose, and preferably <0.1 EU per dose.
                                                       -15-

   Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention are preferably gluten free.
   Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be prepared in unit dose form. In some
   embodiments a unit dose may have a volume of between 0.1-l.Oml e.g. about 0.5mL.
   The compositions may be prepared as injectables, either as solutions or suspensions. The
 5 composition may be prepared for pulmonary administration e.g. by an inhaler, using a fine spray.
   The composition may be prepared for nasal, aural or ocular administration e.g. as spray or drops.
   Injectables for intramuscular administration are typicaL
   Compositions comprise an immunologically effective amount of liposomes, as well as any other
   components, as needed. By 'immunologically effective amount', it is meant that the administration of
 0 that amount to an individual, either in a single dose or as part of a series, is effective for treatment or
   prevention. This amount varies depending upon the health and physical condition of the individual to
   be treated, age, the taxonomic group of individual to be treated (e.g. non-human primate, primate,
   etc.), the capacity of the individual's immune system to synthesise antibodies, the degree of
   protection desired, the formulation of the vaccine, the treating doctor's assessment of the medical
 5 situation, and other relevant factors. It is expected that the amount will fall in a relatively broad range
   that can be determined through routine trials. The liposome and RNA content of compositions of the
   invention will generally be expressed in terms of the amount of RNA per dose, A preferred dose has
                                                                2 5g, 50pg, 7 5pg or 100ig), but expression
     lOOpg RNA (e.g. from 10-100pg, such as about lOgg,
   can be seen at much lower levels e.g. :1pg/dose, <l00ng/dose, <10ng/dose, <lng/dose, etc
 0 The invention also provides a delivery device (e.g. syringe, nebuliser, sprayer, inhaler, dermal patch,
   etc.) containing a pharmaceutical composition of the invention. This device can be used to administer
   the composition to a vertebrate subject.
   Liposomes of the invention do not contain ribosomes.
   Methods of treatment and medical uses
 5 In contrast to the particles disclosed in reference 10, liposomes and pharmaceutical compositions of
   the invention are for in vivo use for eliciting an immune response against an immunogen of interest.
   The invention provides a method for raising an immune response in a vertebrate comprising the step
   of administering an effective amount of a liposome or pharmaceutical composition of the invention.
   The immune response is preferably protective and preferably involves antibodies and/or cell
50 mediated immunity. The method may raise a booster response.
   The invention also provides a liposome or phannaceutical composition of the invention for use in a
   method for raising an immune response in a vertebrate.
   The invention also provides the use of a liposome of the invention in the manufacture of a
   medicament for raising an immune response in a vertebrate.
                                                       -16-

  By raising an immune response in the vertebrate by these uses and methods, the vertebrate can be
  protected against various diseases and/or infections e.g. against bacterial and/or viral diseases as
  discussed above. The liposomes and compositions are immunogenic, and are more preferably
  vaccine compositions. Vaccines according to the invention may either be prophylactic (i.e. to prevent
5 infection) or therapeutic (i.e. to treat infection), but will typically be prophylactic.
  The vertebrate is preferably a mammal, such as a human or a large veterinary mammal (e.g. horses,
  cattle, deer, goats, pigs). Where the vaccine is for prophylactic use, the human is preferably a child
  (e.g. a toddler or infant) or a teenager; where the vaccine is for therapeutic use, the human is
  preferably a teenager or an adult. A vaccine intended for children may also be administered to adults
0 e.g. to assess safety, dosage, immunogenicity, etc.
  Vaccines prepared according to the invention may be used to treat both children and adults. Thus a
  human patient may be less than 1 year old, less than 5 years old, 1-5 years old, 5-15 years old, 15-55
  years old, or at least 55 years old. Preferred patients for receiving the vaccines are the elderly (e.g.
  >50 years old, >60 years old, and preferably >65 years), the young (e.g. <5 years old), hospitalised
5 patients, healthcare workers, armed service and military personnel, pregnant women, the chronically
  ill, or immunodeficient patients. The vaccines are not suitable solely for these groups, however, and
  may be used more generally in a population.
  Compositions of the invention will generally be administered directly to a patient. Direct delivery
  may be accomplished by parenteral injection (e.g. subcutaneously, intraperitoneally, intravenously,
0 intramuscularly, intradermnally, or to the interstitial space of a tissue; unlike reference 1, intraglossal
  injection is not typically used with the present invention). Alternative delivery routes include rectal,
  oral (e.g. tablet, spray), buccal, sublingual, vaginal, topical, transdermal or transcutaneous, intranasal,
  ocular,   aural, pulmonary or other mucosal              administration.   Intradermal and intramuscular
  administration are two preferred routes. Injection may be via a needle (e.g. a hypodermic needle), but
5 needle-free injection may alternatively be used. A typical intramuscular dose is 0.5 ml.
  The invention may be used to elicit systemic and/or mucosal immunity, preferably to elicit an
  enhanced systemic and/or mucosal immunity.
  Dosage can be by a single dose schedule or a multiple dose schedule. Multiple doses may be used in
  a primary immunisation schedule and/or in a booster immunisation schedule. In a multiple dose
0 schedule the various doses may be given by the same or different routes e.g. a parenteral prime and
  mucosal boost, a mucosal prime and parenteral boost, etc. Multiple doses will typically be
  administered at least 1 week apart (e.g. about 2 weeks, about 3 weeks, about 4 weeks, about 6 weeks,
  about 8 weeks, about 10 weeks, about 12 weeks, about 16 weeks, etc.). In one embodiment, multiple
  doses may be administered approximately 6 weeks, 10 weeks and 14 weeks afler birth, e.g. at an age
5 of 6 weeks, 10 weeks and 14 weeks, as often used in the World Health Organisation's Expanded
  Program on Immunisation ("EPI"). In an alternative embodiment, two primary doses are
                                                        -17-

   administered about two months apart, e.g. about 7, 8 or 9 weeks apart, followed by one or more
   booster doses about 6 months to 1 year after the second primary dose, e.g. about 6, 8, 10 or 12
   months after the second primary dose. In a further embodiment, three primary doses are administered
   about two months apart, e.g. about 7, 8 or 9 weeks apart, followed by one or more booster doses
 5 about 6 months to 1 year after the third primary dose, e.g. about 6, 8, 10, or 12 months after the third
   primary dose.
   General
   The practice of the present invention will employ, unless otherwise indicated, conventional methods
   of chemistry, biochemistry, molecular biology, immunology and pharmacology, within the skill of
 0 the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature. See, e.g., references 30-36, etc.
   The term "comprising" encompasses "including" as well as "consisting" e.g. a composition
   "comprising" X may consist exclusively of X or may include something additional e.g. X + Y.
   The term "about" in relation to a numerical value x is optional and means, for example, x+t10%.
   The word "substantially" does not exclude "completely" e.g. a composition which is "substantially
 5 free" from Y may be completely free from Y. Where necessary, the word "substantially" may be
   omitted from the definition of the invention.
   References to charge, to cations, to anions, to zwitterions, etc., are taken at pH 7.
   TLR3 is the Toll-like receptor 3. It is a single membrane-spanning receptor which plays a key role in
   the innate imnnmue system. Known TLR3 agonists include poly(I:C). "TLR3" is the approved HGNC
 0 name for the gene encoding this receptor, and its unique HGNC ID is HGNC: 11849. The RefSeq
   sequence for the human TLR3 gene is GI:2459625.
   TLR7 is the Toll-like receptor 7. It is a single membrane-spanning receptor which plays a key role in
   the innate immune system. Known TLR7 agonists include e.g. imiquimod. "TLR7" is the approved
   HGNC name for the gene encoding this receptor, and its unique HGNC ID is HGNC:15631. The
 5 RefSeq sequence for the human TLR7 gene is GI:67944638.
   TLR8 is the Toll-like receptor 8. It is a single membrane-spanning receptor which plays a key role in
   the innate immune system. Known TLR8 agonists include e.g. resiquimod. "TLR8" is the approved
   HGNC name for the gene encoding this receptor, and its unique HGNC ID is HGNC:15632. The
   RefSeq sequence for the human TLR8 gene is GI:20302165.
;0 The RIG-I-like receptor ("RLR") family includes various RNA helicases which play key roles in the
   innate immune system[37]. RLR-I (also known as RIG-I or retinoic acid inducible gene I) has two
   caspase recruitment domains near its N-terminus. The approved HGNC name for the gene encoding
   the RLR-t helicase is "DDX58" (for DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) box polypeptide 58) and the unique
   HGNC ID is HGNC:19102. The RefSeq sequence for the human RLR-1 gene is GI:77732514.
                                                     -18-

   RLR-2 (also known as MDA5 or melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5) also has two caspase
   recruitment domains near its N-terminus. The approved HGNC name for the gene encoding the
   RLR-2 helicase is "IFIH1"   (for interferon induced with helicase C domain 1) and the unique HGNC
   ID is HGNC:18873. The RefSeq sequence for the human RLR-2 gene is GI: 27886567. RLR-3 (also
 5 known as LGP2 or laboratory of genetics and physiology 2) has no caspase recruitment domains. The
   approved HGNC name for the gene encoding the RLR-3 helicase is "DHX58" (for DEXH (Asp-Glu
   X-His) box polypeptide 58) and the unique HGNC ID is HGNC:29517. The RefSeq sequence for the
   human RLR-3 gene is GI:149408121.
   PKR is a double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase. It plays a key role in the innate immune
 0 system. "EIF2AK2" (for eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2-alpha kinase 2) is the approved
   HGNC name for the gene encoding this enzyme, and its unique HGNC ID is HGNC:9437. The
   RefSeq sequence for the human PKR gene is GI:208431825.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
   FIG. I shows a gel with stained RNA. Lanes show (1) markers (2) naked replicon (3) replicon after
 5 RNase treatment (4) replicon encapsulated in liposome (5) liposome after RNase treatment (6)
   liposome treated with RNase then subjected to phenol/chloroform extraction.
   FIG. 2 is an electron micrograph of liposomes.
   FIG. 3 shows protein expression (as relative light units, RLU) at days 1, 3 and 6 after delivery of
   RNA in large (lower line) or small (upper line) liposomes.
 0 FIG. 4 shows a gel with stained RNA. Lanes show (1) markers (2) naked replicon (3) replicon
   encapsulated in liposome (4) liposome treated with RNase then subjected to phenol/chloroform
   extraction.
   FIG. 5 shows protein expression at days 1, 3 and 6 after delivery of RNA as a virion-packaged
   replicon (squares), as naked RNA (diamonds), or in liposomes (+ = 0.1 pg, x = 1p g).
Z5 FIG. 6 shows protein expression at days 1, 3 and 6 after delivery of four different doses of liposome
   encapsulated RNA.
   FIG. 7 shows anti-F IgG titers in animals receiving virion-packaged replicon (VRP or VSRP), lpg
   naked RNA, and 1Ipg liposome-encapsulated RNA.
   FIG. 8 shows anti-F IgG titers in animals receiving VRP, 1lg naked RNA, and 0.lg or lgg
50 liposome-encapsulated RNA.
   FIG. 9 shows neutralising antibody titers in animals receiving VRP or either O.1g or lgg liposome
   encapsulated RNA.
                                                     -19-

   FIG. 10 shows expression levels after delivery of a replicon as naked RNA (circles), liposome
   encapsulated RNA (triangle & square), or as a lipoplex (inverted triangle).
   FIG. I1 shows F-specific IgG titers (2 weeks after second dose) after delivery of a replicon as naked
   RNA (0.01-1pg), liposome-encapsulated RNA (0.01-10pg), or packaged as a virion (VRP, 10'
 5 infectious units or U).
   FIG. 12 shows F-specific IgG titers (circles) and PRNT titers (squares) after delivery of a replicon as
   naked RNA (1pg), liposome-encapsulated RNA (0.1 or lpg), or packaged as a virion (VRP, 106 IU).
   Titers in naive mice are also shown. Solid lines show geometric means.
   FIG. 13 shows intracellular cytokine production after restimulation with synthetic peptides
 0 representing the major epitopes in the F protein, 4 weeks after a second dose. The y-axis shows the %
   cytokine+ of CD8+CD4-.
   FIG. 14 shows F-specific IgG titers (mean logo titers + std dev) over 210 days after immunisation of
   calves. The three lines are easily distinguished at day 63 and are, from bottom to top: PBS negative
   control; liposome-delivered RNA; and the "Triangle 4" product.
 5 FIG. 15 shows anti-F titers expression (relative) two weeks after a first dose of replicon encoding F
   protein. The titers are plotted against liposome Z average diameter (nm).
   FIGS. 16A to 16M show the structure of alternative cationic lipids: (A) RV05; (B) RV02; (C) RV04; (D)
   RVO7; (E) RV03; (F) RV08; (G) RV09; (H) RV14; (I) RV10; (J) RVII; (K) RV15; (L) RVl6; (M)
   RV17.
 0 FIG. 17 shows the structure of a useful "split" PEG-conjugated lipid. The total molecular weight of
   PEG inside the box is 2000 in the tested liposomes.
   FIGS. 18A toI8E show structures of various PEG-conjugated lipids, where R is PEG of a desired
   length.
   MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
?5 RNA replicons
   Various replicons are used below. In general these are based on a hybrid alphavirus genome with
   non-structural proteins from venezuelan equine encephalitis virus (VEEV), a packaging signal from
   VEEV, and a 3 UTR from Sindbis virus or a VEEV mutant. The replicon is about 10kb long and has
   a poly-A tail.
 0 Plasmid DNA encoding alphavirus replicons (named: pT7-mVEEV-FL.RSVF or A317; pT7
   mVEEV-SEAP or A306; pSP6-VCR-GFP or A50) served as a template for synthesis of RNA in
   vitro. The replicons contain the alphavirus genetic elements required for RNA replication but lack
   those encoding gene products necessary for particle assembly; the structural proteins are instead
                                                     -20-

   replaced by a protein of interest (either a reporter, such as SEAP or GFP, or an immunogen, such as
   full-length RSV F protein) and so the replicons are incapable of inducing the generation of infectious
   particles. A bacteriophage (T7 or SP6) promoter upstream of the alphavirus cDNA facilitates the
   synthesis of the replicon RNA in vitro and a hepatitis delta virus (HDV) ribozyme immediately
 5 downstream of the poly(A)-tail generates the correct 3-end through its self-cleaving activity.
   Following linearization of the plasmid DNA downstream of the HDV ribozyme with a suitable
   restriction endonuclease, run-off transcripts were synthesized in vitro using T7 or SP6 bacteriophage
   derived DNA-dependent RNA polymerase. Transcriptions were performed for 2 hours at 37 0 C in the
   presence of 7.5 mM (T7 RNA polymerase) or 5 mM (SP6 RNA polymerase) of each of the
 0 nucleoside triphosphates (ATP, CTP, GTP and UTP) following the instructions provided by the
   manufacturer (Ambion). Following transcription the template DNA was digested with TURBO
   DNase (Ambion). The replicon RNA was precipitated with LiCl and reconstituted in nuclease-free
   water. Uncapped RNA was capped post-transcriptionally with Vaccinia Capping Enzyme (VCE)
   using the ScriptCap m7G Capping System (Epicentre Biotechnologies) as outlined in the user
 5 manual; replicons capped in this way are given the "v" prefix e.g. vA317 is the A317 replicon
   capped by VCE, Post-transcriptionally capped RNA was precipitated with LiCl and reconstituted in
   nuclease-free water. The concentration of the RNA samples was determined by measuring OD 2 ,,m.
   Integrity of the in vitro transcripts was confirmed by denaturing agarose gel electrophoresis.
   Liposomal encapsulation
 0 RNA was encapsulated in liposomes made essentially by the method of references 7 and 38. The
   liposomes were made of 10% DSPC (zwitterionic), 40% DlinDMA (cationic), 48% cholesterol and
   2% PEG-conjugated DMG (2kDa PEG). These proportions refer to the % moles in the total
   liposome.
   DlinDMA (1,2-dilinoleyloxy-NN-dimethyl-3-aminopropane) was synthesized using the procedure
!5 of reference 2. DSPC (1,2-Diastearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine) was purchased from Genzyme.
   Cholesterol was obtained from Sigma-Aldrich. PEG-conjugated DMG (1,2-dimyristoyl-sn-glycero
   3-phosphoethanolamine-N-[methoxy(polyethylene glycol), ammonium salt), DOTAP (1,2-dioleoyl
   3-trimethylammonium-propane,         chloride salt) and DC-chol (30-[N-(N',N'-dimethylaminoethane)
   carbamoyl]cholesterol hydrochloride) were from Avanti Polar Lipids.
 0 Briefly, lipids were dissolved in ethanol (2ml), a RNA replicon was dissolved in buffer (2ml, 100mM
   sodium citrate, pH 6) and these were mixed with 2ml of buffer followed by 1 hour of equilibration.
   The mixture was diluted with 6ml buffer then filtered. The resulting product contained liposomes,
   with ~95% encapsulation efficiency.
   For example, in one particular method, fresh lipid stock solutions were prepared in ethanol. 37 mg of
 5 DlinDMA, 11.8 mg of DSPC, 27.8 mg of cholesterol and 8.07 mg of PEG-DMG were weighed and
   dissolved in 7.55 mL of ethanol. The freshly prepared lipid stock solution was gently rocked at 37*C
                                                       -21-

  for about 15 min to form a homogenous mixture. Then, 755 gL of the stock was added to 1.245 mL
  ethanol to make a working lipid stock solution of 2 mL. This amount of lipids was used to form
  liposomes with 250 pg RNA. A 2 mL working solution of RNA was also prepared from a stock
  solution of -Ig/jpL in 100 mM citrate buffer (pH 6). Three 20 mL glass vials (with stir bars) were
5 rinsed with RNase Away solution (Molecular BioProducts) and washed with plenty of MilliQ water
  before use to decontaminate the vials of RNases. One of the vials was used for the RNA working
  solution and the others for collecting the lipid and RNA mixes (as described later). The working lipid
  and RNA solutions were heated at 370 C for 10 min before being loaded into 3cc luer-lok syringes.
  2 mL citrate buffer (pH 6) was loaded in another 3 cc syringe. Syringes containing RNA and the
0 lipids were connected to a T mixer (PEEKTM 500 pim ID junction, Idex Health Science) using FEP
  tubing (fluorinated ethylene-propylene; all FEP tubing used had a 2mm internal diameter and a 3mm
  outer diameter; obtained from Idex Health Science), The outlet from the T mixer was also FEP
  tubing. The third syringe containing the citrate buffer was connected to a separate piece of tubing.
  All syringes were then driven at a flow rate of 7 mL/min using a syringe pump, The tube outlets were
5 positioned to collect the mixtures in a 20 iL glass vial (while stirring). The stir bar was taken out
  and the ethanol/aqueous solution was allowed to equilibrate to room temperature for 1 hour. 4 ml of
  the mixture was loaded into a 5 cc syringe, which was connected to a piece of FEP tubing and in
  another 5 cc syringe connected to an equal length of FEP tubing, an equal amount of 100 mM citrate
  buffer (pH 6) was loaded. The two syringes were driven at 7mL/min flow rate using the syringe
0 pump and the final mixture collected in a 20 mL glass vial (while stirring). Next, the mixture
  collected from the second mixing step (liposomes) were passed through a Mustang       Q membrane   (an
  anion-exchange support that binds and removes anionic molecules, obtained from Pall Corporation).
  Before using this membrane for the liposomes, 4 mL of I M NaOH, 4 mL of I M NaCI and 10 mL of
   100 mM citrate buffer (pH 6) were successively passed through it. Liposomes were warmed for 10
5 min at 37 0 C before passing through the membrane. Next, liposomes were concentrated to 2 mL and
  dialyzed against 10-15 volumes of IX PBS using by tangential flow filtration before recovering the
  final product. The TFF system and hollow fiber filtration membranes were purchased from Spectrum
  Labs (Rancho Dominguez) and were used according to the manufacturer's guidelines. Polysulfone
  hollow fiber filtration membranes with a 100 kD pore size cutoff and 8 cm2 surface area were used.
0 For in vitro and in vivo experiments formulations were diluted to the required RNA concentration
  with IXPBS.
  FIG. 2 shows an example electron micrograph of liposomes prepared by these methods. These
  liposomes contain encapsulated RNA encoding full-length RSV F antigen. Dynamic light scattering
  of one batch showed an average diameter of 141nm (by intensity) or 78nm (by number).
5 The percentage of encapsulated RNA and RNA concentration were determined by Quant-iT
  RiboGreen RNA reagent kit (Invitrogen), following manufacturer's instructions. The ribosomal RNA
  standard provided in the kit was used to generate a standard curve. Liposomes were diluted I Ox or
                                                     -22-

  100x in 1X TE buffer (from kit) before addition of the dye. Separately, liposomes were diluted 1Ox
  or 100x in 1X TE buffer containing 0.5% Triton X before addition of the dye (to disrupt the
  liposomes and thus to assay total RNA), Thereafter an equal amount of dye was added to each
  solution and then ~180 IL of each solution after dye addition was loaded in duplicate into a 96 well
5 tissue culture plate. The fluorescence (Ex 485 nm, Em 528 nm) was read on a microplate reader. All
  liposome formulations were dosed in vivo based on the encapsulated amount of RNA.
  Encapsulation in liposomes was shown to protect RNA from RNase digestion. Experiments used
  3.8mAU of RNase A per microgram of RNA, incubated for 30 minutes at room temperature. RNase
  was inactivated with Proteinase K at 55"C for 10 minutes. A 1:1 v/v mixture of sample to 25:24:1
0 v/v/v, phenol:chloroform:isoamyl alcohol was then added to extract the RNA from the lipids into the
  aqueous phase. Samples were mixed by vortexing for a few seconds and then placed on a centrifuge
  for 15 minutes at 12k RPMv. The aqueous phase (containing the RNA) was removed and used to
  analyze the RNA. Prior to loading (400 ng RNA per well) all the samples were incubated with
  formaldehyde loading dye, denatured for 10 minutes at 65"C and cooled to room temperature.
5 Ambion Millennium markers were used to approximate the molecular weight of the RNA construct.
  The gel was run at 90 V. The gel was stained using 0.1% SYBR gold according to the manufacturer's
  guidelines in water by rocking at room temperature for 1 hour. FIG. I shows that RNase completely
  digests RNA in the absence of encapsulation (lane 3). RNA is undetectable after encapsulation (lane
  4), and no change is seen if these liposomes are treated with RNase (lane 4). After RNase-treated
0 liposomes are subjected to phenol extraction, undigested RNA is seen (lane 6). Even after I week at
  4C the RNA could be seen without any fragmentation (FIG. 4, arrow). Protein expression in vivo
  was unchanged after 6 weeks at 4 *C and one freeze-thaw cycle. Thus liposome-encapsulated RNA is
  stable.
  To assess in vivo expression of the RNA a reporter enzyme (SEAP; secreted alkaline phosphatase)
5 was encoded in the replicon, rather than an immunogen. Expression levels were measured in sera
  diluted 1:4 in 1X Phospha-Light dilution buffer using a chemiluminescent alkaline phosphate
  substrate. 8-10 week old BALB/c mice (5/group) were injected intramuscularly on day 0, 50PL per
  leg with 0.1pg or lgg RNA dose. The same vector was also administered without the liposomes (in
  RNase free IX PBS) at 1p g. Virion-packaged replicons were also tested. Virion-packaged replicons
0 used herein (referred to as "VRPs") were obtained by the methods of reference 39, where the
  alphavirus replicon is derived from the mutant VEEV or a chimera derived from the genome of
  VEEV engineered to contain the 3' UTR of Sindbis virus and a Sindbis virus packaging signal (PS),
  packaged by co-electroporating them into BHK cells with defective helper RNAs encoding the
  Sindbis virus capsid and glycoprotein genes.
5 As shown in FIG. 5, encapsulation increased SEAP levels by about '/ log at the IIg dose, and at day
  6 expression from a 0.1ig encapsulated dose matched levels seen with Igg unencapsulated dose. By
  day 3 expression levels exceeded those achieved with VRPs (squares). Thus expressed increased
                                                  -23-

  when the RNA was formulated in the liposomes relative to the naked RNA control, even at a 1Ox
  lower dose. Expression was also higher relative to the VRP control, but the kinetics of expression
  were very different (see FIG. 5). Delivery of the RNA with electroporation resulted in increased
  expression relative to the naked RNA control, but these levels were lower than with liposomes.
5 To assess whether the effect seen in the liposome groups was due merely to the liposome
  components, or was linked to the encapsulation, the replicon was administered in encapsulated form
  (with two different purification protocols, O.lg RNA), or mixed with the liposomes after their
  formation (a non-encapsulated "lipoplex", 0.1pg RNA), or as naked RNA (I pg). FIG. 10 shows that
  the lipoplex gave the lowest levels of expression, showing that shows encapsulation is essential for
0 potent expression.
  Further SEAP experiments showed a clear dose response in vivo, with expression seen after delivery
  of as little as lng RNA (FIG. 6). Further experiments comparing expression from encapsulated and
  naked replicons indicated that 0.01 tg encapsulated RNA was equivalent to 1 g of naked RNA. At a
  0.5pg dose of RNA the encapsulated material gave a 12-fold higher expression at day 6; at a 0.1lg
5 dose levels were 24-fold higher at day 6.
  Rather than looking at average levels in the group, individual animals were also studied. Whereas
  several animals were non-responders to naked replicons, encapsulation eliminated non-responders.
  Further experiments replaced DlinDMA with DOTAP. Although the DOTAP liposomes gave better
  expression than naked replicon, they were inferior to the DlinDMA liposomes (2- to 3-fold
0 difference at day 1).
  To assess in vivo immunogenicity a replicon was constructed to express full-length F protein from
  respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). This was delivered naked (lg), encapsulated in liposomes (0.1 or
   l g), or packaged in virions (106 1I; "VRP") at days 0 and 21. FIG. 7 shows ani-F IgG titers 2
  weeks after the second dose, and the liposomes clearly enhance immunogenicity. FIG. 8 shows titers
5 2 weeks later, by which point there was no statistical difference between the encapsulated RNA at
  0.lpg, the encapsulated RNA at 1pg, or the VRP group. Neutralisation titers (measured as 60%
  plaque reduction, "PRNT60") were not significantly different in these three groups 2 weeks after the
  second dose (FIG. 9). FIG. 12 shows both IgG and PRNT titers 4 weeks after the second dose.
  FIG. 13 confirms that the RNA elicits a robust CD8 T cell response.
0 Further experiments compared F-specific IgG titers in mice receiving VRP, 0.1lpg liposome
  encapsulated RNA, or 1gg liposome-encapsulated RNA. Titer ratios (VRP: liposome) at various
  times after the second dose were as follows:
                                     2 weeks                 4 weeks                8 weeks
                       O.Ipg            2.9                     1.0                    1.1
                                                   -24-

                         Ig               2.3                   0.9                     0.9
  Thus the liposome-encapsulated RNA induces essentially the same magnitude of immune response
  as seen with virion delivery.
  Further experiments showed superior F-specific IgG responses with a lOg dose, equivalent
5 responses for lpg and    0 .1 pg doses, and a lower response with a 0.01gg dose. FIG. 11 shows IgG
  titers in mice receiving the replicon in naked form at 3 different doses, in liposomes at 4 different
  doses, or as VRP (106 IU). The response seen with I Ag liposome-encapsulated RNA was statistically
  insignificant (ANOVA) when compared to VRP, but the higher response seen with I Og liposome
  encapsulated RNA was statistically significant (p<0.05) when compared to both of these groups.
0 A further study confirmed that the 0.1 Ag of liposome-encapsulated RNA gave much higher anti-F
  IgG responses (15 days post-second dose) than 0.tlsg of delivered DNA, and even was more
  immunogenic than 20pg plasmid DNA encoding the F antigen, delivered by electroporation
  (ElgenTM DNA Delivery System, Inovio).
  Cotton rats
5 A study was performed in cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidis) instead of mice. At a lpg dose liposome
  encapsulation increased F-specific IgG titers by 8.3-fold compared to naked RNA and increased
  PRNT titers by 9.5-fold. The magnitude of the antibody response was equivalent to that induced by
  5x 106 I VRP. Both naked and liposome-encapsulated RNA were able to protect the cotton rats from
  RSV challenge (1x10 5 plaque forming units), reducing lung viral load by at least 3.5 logs.
0 Encapsulation increased the reduction by about 2-fold.
  Further work in cotton rats used four different replicons: vA317 expresses full-length RSV-F; VA3 18
  expresses truncated (transnmembrane and cytoplasmic tail removed) RSV-F; vA142 expresses RSV-F
  with its fusion peptide deleted; vAl40 expresses the truncated RSV-F also without its peptide.
  Cotton rats, 4 to 8 animals per group, were given intramuscular vaccinations (100 AL in one leg) on
5 days 0 and 21 with the four different replicons at two doses (1.0 and 0.1pg) formulated in liposomes
  made using 2kDa PEG-conjugated DMG by method (D), but with a 150 pg RNA batch size. Control
  groups received a RSV-F subunit protein vaccine (5 jg) adjuvanted with alum (8 animals/group),
  VRPs expressing full-length RSV-F (1x10 6LU, 8 animals/group), or naive control (4 animals/group).
  Serum was collected for antibody analysis on days 0, 21 and 34.
0 F-specific serum IgG titers and RSV serum neutralizing antibody titers on day 21 and 34 were:
                                                    -25-

      Group                       IgG, day 21    IgG, day 34     NT, day 21     NT, day 34
      1 kgvA317                       915            2249            115            459
      0,1 pg vA317                    343             734             87             95
      1 VgvA318                       335            1861             50            277
      0.1 gvA318                      129             926             66            239
      1 pg vA142                      778            4819             92            211
      0.1 gvA142                      554            2549             78            141
      1 [LgvA140                      182             919            96             194
      0.1 gvA140                       61             332             29             72
      5g Frimersubunit/alun         13765           86506            930           4744
      1X1061UVPFful                  187            19179            104           4528
      Nave                             5               5              10             15
  All four replicons evaluated in this study (vA317, vA318, vA142, vA140) were immunogenic in
  cotton rats when delivered by liposome, although serum neutralization titers were at least ten-fold
5 lower than those induced by adjuvanted protein vaccines or by VRPs. The liposome/RNA vaccines
  elicited serum F-specific IgG and RSV neutralizing antibodies after the first vaccination, and a
  second vaccination boosted the response effectively. F-specific IgG titers after the second
  vaccination with lg    replicon were 2- to 3-fold higher than after the second vaccination with 0.1 pg
  replicon. The four replicons elicited comparable antibody titers, suggesting that full length and
0 truncated RSV-F, each with or without the fusion peptide, are similarly immunogenic in cotton rats.
  Further work in cotton rats again used the vA317, vA318 and vA142 replicons. Cotton rats, 2-8
  animals per group, were given intramuscular vaccinations (100 pL in one leg) on days 0 and 21 with
  the replicons (0.1 or lpg) encapsulated in RVOI liposomes (with PEG-2000) made by method (D)
  but with a 150pg RNA batch size. Control groups received the RSV-F subunit protein vaccine (5 pg)
5 adjuvanted with alum or VRPs expressing full-length RSV-F (1x10 6 LU, 8 animals/group). All these
  animals received a third vaccination (day 56) with RSV-F subunit protein vaccine (5 jig) adjuvanted
  with alum. In addition there was a naive control (4 animals/group). In addition, an extra group was
  given bilateral intramuscular vaccinations (50 pL per leg) on days 0 and 56 with I jg vA317 RNA in
  liposomes but did not receive a third vaccination with the subunit protein vaccine.
0 Serum was collected for antibody analysis on days 0, 21, 35, 56, 70, plus days 14, 28 & 42 for the
  extra group. F-specific serum IgG titers (GMT) were as follows:
                                                    -26-

                                    Day 21       Day 35        Day 56     Day 70
   1Ig vA318                          260          1027         332        14263
   0.1 pg vA318                        95          274           144       2017
   1 pgvA142                          483          1847         1124       11168
   0.1 pgvA142                        314          871          418        11023
   1 IgvA317                          841         4032          1452       13852
   1x106 VRP (F-full)                2075         3938          1596       14574
   5 pg F trimer subunit/alum        12685        54526        25846      48864
   NaYve                                5            5            5          5
  Serun neutralisation titers were as follows (60% RSV neutralization titers for 2 pools of 3-4 animals
  per group, GMT of these 2 pools per group):
                                    Day 21       Day 35        Day 56     Day 70
   1 gvA31S                            58           134          111       6344
   0.1 pg vA318                        41           102          63        6647
   1 g vA142                           77          340          202        5427
   0.1 pgvA142                         35           65           56        2223
   1 g vA317                           19          290          200        4189
   1x10 6 VRP (F-ful)                 104          1539         558        2876
   5 pg F trimer subnit/alum          448         4457          1630       3631
   NaYve                               10            10           10
5
  Serum titers and neutralising titers for the extra group were as follows:
     Day         14           21             28             35        42            56          70
     LgG        397           561           535           501         405          295         3589
     NT          52            82            90            106         80          101         1348
  Thus the replicons are confirmed as immunogenic in cotton rats, eliciting serum F-specific IgG and
  RSV neutralizing antibodies after the first vaccination. A second vaccination boosted the responses
0 effectively. F-specific IgG titers after the second vaccination with 1.0 gg replicon were 1.5 to 4-fold
  higher than after the second vaccination with 0.1 pg replicon.
  The third vaccination (protein at day 56) did not boost titers in cotton rats previously vaccinated with
  F trimer subunit + alum, but it did provide a large boost to tigers in cotton rats previously vaccinated
  with replicon. In most cases the RSV serum neutralization titers after two replicon vaccinations
                                                       -27-

  followed by protein boost were equal to or greater than titers induced by two or three sequential
  protein vaccinations.
  This study also evaluated the kinetics of the antibody response to 1.0      g vA317. F-specific serum
  IgG and RSV neutralization titers induced by a single vaccination reached their peak around day 21
5 and were maintained through at least day 56 (50-70% drop in F-specific IgG titer, little change in
  RSV neutralization titer). A homologous second vaccination was given to these animals on day 56,
  and boosted antibody titers to a level at least equal to that achieved when the second vaccination was
  administered on day 21.
  Further experiments involved a viral challenge. The vA368 replicon encodes the full-length wild type
0 surface fusion glycoprotein of RSV with the fusion peptide deleted, with expression driven by the
  EV71 IRES. Cotton rats, 7 per group, were given intramuscular vaccinations (100 pL per leg) on
  days 0 and 21 with vA368 in liposomes prepared by method (H), 175 pg RNA batch size, or with
  VRPs having the same replicon. The liposomes included 2kDa PEG, conjugated to DMG. A control
  group received 5gg alum-adjuvanted protein, and a naive control group was also included.
5 All groups received an intranasal challenge (iin) with 1x106 PFU RSV four weeks after the final
  immunization. Serum was collected for antibody analysis on days 0, 21, 35. Viral lung titers were
  measured 5 days post challenge. Results were as follows:
                           Liposome                VRP                Protein            Naive
       F-specific Serum IgG titers (GMT)
       Day 21                  370                 1017                28988               5
       Day 35                 2636                 2002                113843              5
       Neutralisingtiters (GMT)
       Day 21                   47                   65                  336               10
       Day 35                  308                  271                 5188               10
       Lung viral load (pfu per gram of lung)
       Day 54                  422                  225                  124            694110
  Thus the RNA vaccine reduced the lung viral load by over three logs, from approximately 106 PFU/g
  in unvaccinated control cotton rats to less than 10' PFU/g in vaccinated cotton rats.
  Large mammal study
  A large-animal study was performed in cattle. Calves (4-6 weeks old, ~60-80 kg, 5 per group) were
  immunised with 66sg of replicon vA317 encoding full-length RSV F protein at days 0, 21, 86 and
   146. The replicons were formulated inside liposomes made by method (E) but with a 1.5 mg RNA
5 batch size; they had 40% DfinDMA, 10% DSPC, 48% cholesterol, and 2% PEG-2000 conjugated to
                                                      -28-

  DMG. PBS alone was used as a negative control, and a licensed vaccine was used as a positive
  control ("Triangle 4" from Fort Dodge, containing killed virus). All calves received 15pg F protein
  adjuvanted with the MF59 emulsion on day 146.
  The RNA vaccines encoded human RSV F whereas the "Triangle 4" vaccine contains bovine RSV F,
5 but the RSV F protein is highly conserved between BRSV and HRSV.
  Calves received 2ml of each experimental vaccine, administered intramuscularly as 2xlml on each
  side of the neck. In contrast, the "Triangle 4" vaccine was given as a single 2ml dose in the neck.
  Serum was collected for antibody analysis on days 0, 14, 21, 35, 42, 56, 63, 86, 100, 107, 114, 121,
   128, 135, 146, 160, 167, 174, 181, 188, 195, and 202. If an individual animal had a titer below the
0 limit of detection it was assigned a titer of 5.
  FIG. 14 shows F-specific IgG titers over 210 days. Over the first 63 days the RNA replicon was
  immunogenic in the cows via liposomes, although it gave lower titers than the licensed vaccine. All
  vaccinated cows showed F-specific antibodies after the second dose, and titers were very stable from
  the period of 2 to 6 weeks after the second dose (and were particularly stable for the RNA vaccines).
5 Titres up to day 202 were as follows:
                         DO    3wpl    2wp2    5wp2 -9wp2   2wp3   5wp3     Rwp3   2wp4   5wp4    8wp4
                                D21     D35     D56    D86  D100   D121     D146   D160   D181    D202
          PBS             5      5       5       5       5    5       5       5     46      98     150
        Liposome          5      5       12      11     20   768    428       74  20774    7022   2353
        Tringle 4         5      5      1784    721    514  3406    2786     336  13376    4775   2133
  RSV serum neutralizing antibody titers were as follows:
                               2wp2    Swp2    2wp3   3wp3  4wp3   Swp3     2wp4  3wp4    4wp4
                         DO     D35     D56    D100   D107  D114   D146     D160   D167   D174
          PBS            12      10      10      14     18   20      14       10    10      10
        Liposome         13      10      10     20      13    17     13      47     26      21
        Tringle4         12      15      13      39     38   41      13      24     26      15
  The material used for the second liposome dose was not freshly prepared, and the same lot of RNA
0 showed a decrease in potency in a mouse immunogenicity study. Therefore it is possible that the
  vaccine would have been more immunogenic if fresh material had been used for all vaccinations.
  When assayed with complement, neutralizing antibodies were detected in all vaccinated cows. In this
  assay, all vaccinated calves had good neutralizing antibody titers after the second RNA vaccination
                                                     -29-

  Furthermore, the RNA vaccine elicited F-specific serum IgG titers that were detected in a few calves
  after the second vaccination and in all calves after the third.
  MF59-adjuvanted RSV-F was able to boost the IgG response in all previously vaccinated calves, and
  to boost complement-independent neutralization titers of calves previously vaccinated with RNA.
5 Proof of concept for RNA vaccines in large animals is particularly important in light of the loss in
  potency observed previously with DNA-based vaccines when moving from small animal models to
  larger animals and humans. A typical dose for a cow DNA vaccine would be 0.5-1 mg [40, 41] and
  so it is very encouraging that immune responses were induced with only    6 6 gg of RNA.
  Effect ofliposome diameter
0 To obtain smaller liposomes the syringe/tube method was replaced by a method in which the lipid
  and RNA solutions are mixed in channels on a microfluidic chip.
  Fresh lipid stock solutions in ethanol were prepared. 37 mg of DlinDMA, 11.8 mg of DSPC, 27.8 mg
  of cholesterol and 8.07 mg of PEG-DMG were weighed and dissolved in 7.55 mL of ethanol. The
  freshly prepared lipid stock solution was gently rocked at 37"C for about 15 min to form a
5 homogenous mixture. Then, 226.7 gL of the stock was added to 1.773 mL ethanol to make a working
  lipid stock solution of 2 mL. A 4 mL working solution of RNA was also prepared from a stock
  solution of ~ lpg/gL in 100 mM citrate buffer (pH 6). Four 20 mL glass vials (with stir bars) were
  rinsed with RNase Away solution and washed with plenty of MilliQ water before use to
  decontaminate the vials of RNAses. Two of the vials were used for the RNA working solution (2 mL
0 in each vial) and the others for collecting the lipid and RNA mixes. The working lipid and RNA
  solutions were heated at 37"C for 10 min before being loaded into 3cc luer-lok syringes. Syringes
  containing RNA and the lipids were connected to a Mitos Dropletjunction Chip (a glass microfluidic
  device obtained from Syrris, Part no. 3000158) using PTFE tubing 0.03 inches ID x 1/16 inch OD,
  (Syrris) using a 4-way edge connector. Two RNA streams and one lipid stream were driven by
5 syringe pumps and the mixing of the ethanol and aqueous phase was done at the Xjunction (100 pm
  x 105 pm) of the chip. The flow rate of all three streams was kept at 1.5 mL/min, hence the ratio of
  total aqueous to ethanolic flow rate was 2:1. The tube outlet was positioned to collect the mixtures in
  a 20 mL glass vial (while stirring). The stir bar was taken out and the ethanol/aqueous solution was
  allowed to equilibrate to room temperature for 1 hour. Then the mixture was loaded in a 5 cc syringe
0 which was fitted to a piece of PTFE tubing 0.03 inches ID x 1/16inches OD and in another 5 cc
  syringe with equal length of PTFE tubing, an equal volume of 100 mM citrate buffer (pH 6) was
  loaded. The two syringes were driven at 3mL/min flow rate using a syringe pump and the final
  mixture collected in a 20 mL glass vial (while stirring). Next, liposomes were concentrated to 2 mL
  and dialyzed against 10-15 volumes of 1X PBS using the TFF system before recovering the final
5 product. Hollow fiber filtration membranes with a 100 kDa pore size cutoff and 20cm 2 surface area
                                                     -30-

  were used. For in vitro and in vivo experiments, formulations were diluted to the required RNA
  concentration with IX PBS,
  Whereas liposomes prepared using the syringe/tube method with           7 5gg RNA had a Z average
  diameter of 148nm and a polydispersity index of 0.122, the chip mixing gave liposomes with a Z
5 average diameter of 97nm and a polydispersity index of 0.086. The proportion of encapsulated RNA
  decreased slightly from 90% to 87%. These diameters and polydispersity indices were measured
  using a Zetasizer Nano ZS (Malvern Instruments, Worcestershire, UK) according to the
  manufacturer's instructions. Liposomes were diluted in 1X PBS before measurement.
  The liposomes were administered to 8-10 week old BALB/c mice by intramuscular injection on day
0 0, 50pl per leg. Sinus orbital bleeds were taken on days 1&3, and a terminal bleed on day 6. Serum
  SEAP levels were measured by chemiluminescent assay. As shown in FIG. 3, the smaller liposomes
  increased SEAP levels by -2-fold at day 1 and by -5-fold at day 6.
  Liposomes prepared by the two different methods were also assessed for delivery of a replicon
  encoding full-length RSV-F protein. F-specific serum IgG titers of mice, 8 animals per group, were
5 measured after intramuscular vaccinations on days 0 and 21. Sera were collected for antibody
  analysis on days 14 (2wpl) and 35 (2wp2). If an individual animal had a titer of <25 (limit of
  detection) it was assigned a titer of 5. Data are shown below as geometric mean titers of each group:
         Formulation              Naked              Syringe/tube liposomes       Chip liposomes
          2wp1 GMT                  35                        2421                      4695
          2wp2 GMT                 457                        10757                    19773
  Thus the smaller chip-mixed liposomes gave -2-fold higher GMTs at 2wp I and 2wp2.
0 Various different liposomes with different diameters were also used to deliver a replicon encoding
  full-length RSV F protein. Total IgG titers against F protein two weeks after the first dose are plotted
  against liposome diameter in FIG. 15.
  Liposome manufacturing methods
  In general, eight different methods have been used for preparing liposomes according to the
5 invention. These are referred to in the text as methods (A) to (H) and they differ mainly in relation to
  filtration and TFF steps. Details are as follows:
            (A) Fresh lipid stock solutions in ethanol were prepared. 37 mg of DfinDMA, 11.8 mg of
  DSPC, 27.8 mg of Cholesterol and 8.07 mg of PEG DMG 2000 were weighed and dissolved in 7.55
  mL of ethanol. The freshly prepared lipid stock solution was gently rocked at 370 C for about 15 min
0 to form a homogenous mixture. Then, 755 pL of the stock was added to 1.245 mL ethanol to make a
  working lipid stock solution of 2 mL. This amount of lipids was used to form liposomes with 250 g
  RNA. A 2 mL working solution of RNA was also prepared from a stock solution of- Ig/pL in 100
                                                      -31-

  mM citrate buffer (pH 6). Three 20 mL glass vials (with stir bars) were rinsed with RNase Away
  solution (Molecular BioProducts, San Diego, CA) and washed with plenty of MilliQ water before use
  to decontaminate the vials of RNases. One of the vials was used for the RNA working solution and
  the others for collecting the lipid and RNA mixes (as described later). The working lipid and RNA
5 solutions were heated at 37*C for 10 min before being loaded into 3cc luer-lok syringes. 2 mL of
  citrate buffer (pH 6) was loaded in another 3 cc syringe. Syringes containing RNA and the lipids
  were connected to a T mixer (PEEKTM 500 im ID junction, Idex Health Science, Oak Harbor, WA)
  using FEP tubing (fluorinated ethylene-propylene; al FEP tubing has a 2mm internal diameter x 3mm
  outer diameter, supplied by Idex Health Science). The outlet from the T mixer was also FEP tubing.
0 The third syringe containing the citrate buffer was connected to a separate piece of FEP tubing. All
  syringes were then driven at a flow rate of 7 mL/min using a syringe pump. The tube outlets were
  positioned to collect the mixtures in a 20 mL glass vial (while stirring). The stir bar was taken out
  and the ethanol/aqueous solution was allowed to equilibrate to room temperature for 1 hour. 4 ml of
  the mixture was loaded into a 5 cc syringe, which was connected to a piece of FEP tubing and in
5 another 5 cc syringe connected to an equal length of FEP tubing, an equal amount of 100 mM citrate
  buffer (pH 6) was loaded. The two syringes were driven at 7mL/min flow rate using the syringe
  pump and the final mixture collected in a 20 mL glass vial (while stirring). Next, the mixture
  collected from the second mixing step (liposomes) were passed through a Mustang      Q membrane   (an
  anion-exchange support that binds and removes anionic molecules, obtained from Pall Corporation,
0 AnnArbor, MI, USA). Before passing the liposomes, 4 mL of I M NaOH, 4 mL of I M NaC1 and 10
  mL of 100 mM citrate buffer (pH 6) were successively passed through the Mustang membrane.
  Liposomes were warmed for 10 min at 37 0 C before passing through the membrane. Next, liposomes
  were concentrated to 2 nL and dialyzed against 10-15 volumes of IX PBS using TFF before
  recovering the final product. The TFF system and hollow fiber filtration membranes were purchased
5 from Spectrum Labs and were used according to the manufacturer's guidelines. Polysulfone hollow
  fiber filtration membranes (part number P/N: X1AB-100-20P) with a 100 kD pore size cutoff and 8
  cm2 surface area were used. For in vitro and in vivo experiments, formulations were diluted to the
  required RNA concentration with IX PBS.
           (B) As method (A) except that, after rocking, 226.7 pL of the stock was added to 1.773 mL
0 ethanol to make a working lipid stock solution of 2 mL, thus modifying the lipid:RNA ratio.
           (C) As method (B) except that the Mustang filtration was omitted, so liposomes went from
  the 20 iL glass vial into the TFF dialysis.
           (D) As method (C) except that the TFF used polyethersulfone (PES) hollow fiber membranes
  (part number P-Cl-100E-100-01N) with a 100 kD pore size cutoff and 20 cm2 surface area.
5          (E) As method (D) except that a Mustang membrane was used, as in method (A).
                                                   -32-

            (F) As method (A) except that the Mustang filtration was omitted, so liposomes went from
   the 20 mL glass vial into the TFF dialysis.
            (G) As method (D) except that a 4 mL working solution of RNA was prepared from a stock
   solution of-   jsg/tL in 100 mM citrate buffer (pH 6). Then four 20 mL glass vials were prepared in
 5 the same way. Two of them were used for the RNA working solution (2 mL in each vial) and the
   others for collecting the lipid and RNA mixes, as in (C). Rather than use T mixer, syringes
   containing RNA and the lipids were connected to a Mitos Droplet junction Chip (a glass microfluidic
   device obtained from Syrris, Part no. 3000158) using PTFE tubing (0.03 inches internal diameter x
    1/16 inch outer diameter) using a 4-way edge connector (Syrris). Two RNA streams and one lipid
 0 stream were driven by syringe pumps and the mixing of the ethanol and aqueous phase was done at
   the X junction (100 Im x 105 pm) of the chip. The flow rate of all three streams was kept at 1.5
   mL/min, hence the ratio of total aqueous to ethanolic flow rate was 2:1. The tube outlet was
   positioned to collect the mixtures in a 20 mL glass vial (while stirring). The stir bar was taken out
   and the ethanol/aqueous solution was allowed to equilibrate to room temperature for I h. Then the
 5 mixture was loaded in a 5 cc syringe, which was fitted to another piece of the PTFE tubing; in
   another 5 cc syringe with equal length of PTFE tubing, an equal volume of 100 mM citrate buffer
   (p1- 6) was loaded. The two syringes were driven at 3mL/min flow rate using a syringe pump and the
   final mixture collected in a 20 mL glass vial (while stirring). Next, liposomes were concentrated to 2
   mL and dialyzed against 10-15 volumes of IX PBS using TFF, as in (D).
 0          (H) As method (A) except that the 2mL working lipid stock solution was made by mixing
    120.9 pL of the lipid stock with 1.879 mL ethanol. Also, after mixing in the T mixer the liposomes
   from the 20mL vial were loaded into Pierce Slide-A-Lyzer Dialysis Cassette (Thermo Scientific,
   extra strength, 0.5-3 iL capacity) and dialyzed against 400-500 mL of IX PBS overnight at 40 C in
   an autoclaved plastic container before recovering the final product.
!5 RSVimmunogenicity
   The vA317 self-replicating replicon encoding RSV F protein was administered to BALB/c mice, 4 or
   8 animals per group, by bilateral intramuscular vaccinations (50 pL per leg) on days 0 and 21 with
   the replicon (1 g) alone or formulated as liposomes with DfinDMA ("RVO1") or DOTAP ("RV13")
   or the lipid shown in FIGS. 16A to 16M ("RV05"). The RVOI liposomes had 40% DlinDMA, 10%
 0 DSPC, 48% cholesterol and 2% PEG-DMG, but with differing amounts of RNA. The RV05
   liposomes had either 40% RV05, 10% DSPC, 48% cholesterol and 2% PEG-DMG or 60% RV05,
   38% cholesterol and 2% PEG-DMG. The RV13 liposomes had 40% DOTAP, 10% DOPE, 48%
   cholesterol and 2% PEG-DMG. For comparison, naked plasmid DNA (20 pg) expressing the same
   RSV-F antigen was delivered either using electroporation or with RVO1(10) liposomes (0.1pg DNA).
 5 Four mice were used as a naive control group.
                                                    -33-

  Liposomes were prepared by method (A) or method (B). For some liposomes made by method (A) a
  double or half amount of RNA was used. Z average particle diameter and polydispersity index were:
                        RV           Zav (om)              pdI             Preparation
                   RV01 (10)           158.6              0.088                (A)
                   RV01 (08)           156.8              0.144                (A)
                   RVO1 (05)           136.5              0.136                (B)
                   RV01 (09)           153.2              0.067                (A)
                   RVO1 (10)           134.7              0.147                (A)
                   RV 5 (01)            148               0.127                (A)
                   RVO5 (02)           177.2              0.136                (A)
                   RV13 (02)           128.3              0.179                (A)
  Serum was collected for antibody analysis on days 14, 36 and 49. Spleens were harvested from mice
  at day 49 for T cell analysis.
5 F-specific serum IgG titers (GMT) were as follows:
                 RV                          Day 14                              Day 36
       Naked DNA plasmid                       439                                 6712
         Naked A317 RNA                         78                                 2291
             RV01 (10)                        3020                                26170
             RVO1 (08)                        2326                                 9720
             RVO1 (05)                        5352                                54907
             RV01 (09)                        4428                                51316
             RV05 (01)                         1356                                5346
             RV05 (02)                         961                                 6915
          RVOI (10) DNA                          5                                  13
             RV13 (02)                         644                                 3616
  The proportion of T cells which are cytokine-positive and specific for RSV F51-66 peptide are as
  follows, showing only figures which are statistically significantly above zero:
                 RV                        CD4+CD8-                           CD4-CD8+
                                 IFNy     IL2       IL5    TNFa      IFNy     IL2       IL5 TNFa
       NakedDNAplasmid            0.04    0.07              0.10      0.57    0.29           0.66
         Naked A317 RNA           0.04    0.05              0.08      0.57    0.23           0.67
             RVO1(10)             0.07    0.10              0.13      1.30    0.59           1.32
             RVOI (08)            0.02    0.04              006       0.46    0.30           0.51
                                                    -34-

             RVO1 (05)          0.08     0.12              0.15    1.90    0.68            1.94
             RV01 (09)          0.06     0.08              0.09    1.62    0.67            1.71
          RVOI (10) DNA                                    0.03                           0.08
             RV13 (02)          0.03     0.04              0.06    1.15    0.41            1.18
  Thus the liposome formulations significantly enhanced immunogenicity relative to the naked RNA
  controls, as determined by increased F-specific IgG titers and T cell frequencies. Plasmid DNA
  formulated with liposomes, or delivered naked using electroporation, was significantly less
5 immunogenic than liposome-formulated self-replicating RNA.
  Further RVO I liposomes were prepared by method (H), using either short (2kDa) or long (5kDa)
  PEG conjugated to the DMG, and either encapsulating 150pg RNA (vA375 replicon encoding
  surface fusion glycoprotein of RSV) or encapsulating only buffer. Thus these liposomes had 40%
  DlinDMA, 10% DSPC, 48% Chol, and 2% PEG-DMG. Sizes and encapsulation were as follows:
              RV         PEG         Zav (nm)         pdil           RNA         Encapsulat"
          RV01 (36)      2 kDa         152.1         0.053            +             92.5%
          RV01(36)       2kDa           144           0.13             -
          RV01 (43)      5 kDa          134          0.136            +             71.6%
          RV01 (43)      5 kDa         130.3         0.178             -
0
  The liposomes were administered to BALB/c mice (10 per group) by bilateral intramuscular injection
  (50li per leg) on days 0 & 21. Doses were 0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3 or 1gg. F-specific serum IgG and
  PRNT60 titers (GMT) were as follows, 2 weeks after the first or second injection:
             RV              RNA (pag)          2wpl             2wp2          PRNT60 (2wp2)
        Buffer control            0                -               -                   10
          RV01 (36)               0                -               -                   10
          RVO1 (36)             0.01            3399            50691                 37
          RV01 (36)             0.03            3446            53463                 83
          RVO1 (36)              0.1            8262            76808                238
          RVO1 (36)              0.3            5913            82599                512
          RV01 (36)               1             8213            85138                441
          RV01 (43)               0                -               -                   10
          RVOI (43)             0.01            3959            37025                 51
          RV01 (43)             0.03            5842            50763                 180
          RV01 (43)              0.1            7559            122555               314
                                                 -35-

           RVO1 (43)                 0.3            5712          126619                689
           RV01 (43)                  1             9434          199991               1055
  Liposomes -       requirement for encapsulation
  As mentioned above, with reference to FIG. 10, encapsulation is essential for potent expression.
  Further experiments used three different RNAs: (i) 'vA317' replicon that expresses RSV-F ie. the
5 surface fusion glycoprotein of RSV; (ii) 'vAl7' replicon that expresses GFP; and (iii) 'vA336' that is
  replication-defective and encodes GFP. RNAs were delivered either naked or with liposomes made
  by method (D). Empty liposomes were made by method (D) but without any RNA. Liposome
  formulations had these characteristics:
         RNA          Particle Size Zav (nm)      Polydispersity        RNA Encapsulation
         vA317                 155.7                   0.113                    86.6%
         vA17                  148.4                   0.139                     92%
         vA336                 145.1                   0.143                    92.9%
         Empty                 147.9                   0.147
0 BALB/c mice, 5 animals per group, were given bilateral intramuscular vaccinations (50 pL, per leg)
  on days 0 and 21 with:
      Group I naked self-replicating RSV-F RNA (vA317, 0.1p±g)
      Group 2 self-replicating RSV-F RNA (vA317, 0.1 Itg) encapsulated in liposomes
      Group 3 self-replicating RSV-F RNA (vA317, 0.1 ig) added to empty liposomes
5     Group 4 F subunit protein (5 Ig)
  Serum was collected for antibody analysis on days 14, 35 and 51. F-specific specific serum IgG titers
  (GMT) were measured; if an individual animal had a titer of <25 (limit of detection), it was assigned
  a titer of 5. In addition, spleens were harvested from mice at day 51 for T cell analysis, to determine
  cells which were cytokine-positive and specific for RSV F51-66 peptide (CD4+) or for RSV F
0 peptides F85-93 and F249-258 (CDS+).
  IgG titers were as follows in the 10 groups and in non-immunised control mice:
      Day         1        2       3       4
        14       22      1819      5       5       5
       35       290     32533      9     19877     5
        51      463     30511      18    20853     5
  RSV sernm neutralization titers at day 51 were as follows:
                                                     -36-

      Day       1         2        3       4
       51      35        50       24      38
  Animals showing RSV F-specific CD4+ splenic T cells on day 51 were as follows, where a number
  (%positive cells) is given only if the stimulated response was statistically significantly above zero:
     Cytokine        1        2      3         4
       IFN-y                0.04
         IL2       0.02     0.06             0.02
         IL5
       TNFa        0.03     0.05
5 Animals showing RSV F-specific CD8+ splenic T cells on day 51 were as follows, where a number
  is given only if the stimulated response was statistically significantly above zero:
     Cytokine        1        2      3         4
       IFN-y       0.37     0.87
         IL2       0.11     0.40             0.04
         ILS
       TNFa        0.29     0.79             0.06
  Thus encapsulation of RNA within the liposomes is necessary for high immunogenicity, as a simple
  admixture of RNA and the liposomes (group 3) was not immunogenic (in fact, less immunogenic
0 than naked RNA).
  Different cationic lipids with vA3 7 RSV replicon
  Further experiments compared four different cationic lipids (DlinDMA, RV02, RV04 & RV07). All
  liposomes contained 2%         PEG-DMG 2000 but remaining              lipid compositions varied. The
  compositions and physical characteristics were as follows:
     Name    Lipid 1             Other lipids                    Zav diamn (nm)       pdl      % encap"
       A     DlinDMA, 40%        10% DSPC, 48% cholesterol            158.6          0.088       90.7
        B    RV02, 40%           10% DSPC, 48% cholesterol            146.8          0.084       97.5
        C    RV04, 40%           10% DSPC, 48% cholesterol            136.7          0.165       67.3
       D     RV04, 60%           38% cholesterol                      176.3          0.157       55.2
        E    RV07, 40%           10% DSPC, 48% cholesterol            144.9          0.204        82
        F    RV07, 60%           38% cholesterol                      124.1          0.195        80
                                                      35
                                                    -37-

  BALB/c mice, 8 per group, were given bilateral intramuscular vaccinations (50 aL per leg) on days 0
  and 21 with naked replicon (ltg) or 0.1ig encapsulated RNA. F-specific serum IgG titers (GMT) 2
  weeks after these two injections were as follows:
             Liposomes                       Day 14                          Day 35
         Naked A317 RNA                         il1                            469
                  A                            1834                          30519
                  B                            1050                           5681
                  C                             430                           4127
                  D                             779                           4693
                  E                             586                           6424
                  F                             121                           2568
5 For RV07 the absence of DSPC caused a large decrease in inunuogenicity.
  Further lipids (RV03, RV08, RV09, RV14 [42]) were tested in the sanre way:
    Name      Lipid 1          Other lipids                 Zav diam (nm)        pdI    % encap"
       G      DlinDMA, 40%      10% DSPC, 48% cholesterol        158.6         0.088       90.7
       H      RV03, 40%         10% DSPC, 48% cholesterol        150.3         0.188       83.1
       I      RV03, 60%        38% cholesterol                   161.1         0.239       68.4
       J      RV08,40%          10% DSPC, 48% cholesterol        191.1         0.227       51.7
       K      RV09, 40%         10% DSPC, 48% cholesterol        161.6         0.209       64.5
       L      RV09, 60%        38% cholesterol                   170.7         0.121       82.4
      M       RV14, 60%        30% DSPC                          155.5         0.238       63.3
       N      RVO1, 40%         10% DSPC, 48% cholesterol        96.14         0.087        92
             Liposomes                       Day 14                          Day 35
         Naked A317 RNA                          35                            457
                  G                            2421                          10757
                  H                              15                             52
                  1                              16                             85
                  J                             991                           1921
                  K                            1082                           1421
                  L                             146                            286
                  M                              27                            212
                  N                            4695                          19773
                                                    -38-

   Liposome M (with DC-cholesterol) performed poorly, even below the naked RNA control. In
   contrast, the remaining cationic lipids gave useful results. Liposome N was prepared by a different
   mixing method (method (G) with a microfluidic chip) from liposome G (method (D)) and this
   smaller liposome gave better results with approximately the same encapsulation.
 5 Further lipids (RVOI, RV1O, RV1 1, RV15) were tested in the same way:
      Name     Lipid 1           Other lipids                    Zav diam (ma)        pdl     % encap"
         P     DlinDMA, 40%      10% DSPC, 48% cholesterol             158.6         0.088       90.7
         Q     RV10, 40%         10% DSPC, 48% cholesterol             123.6          0.14       80.3
         R     RV11,40%          10% DSPC, 48% cholesterol             137.1         0.155         81
         S     RV11,60%          38% cholesterol                       135.4         0.175       79.7
         T     RV15,40%          38%cholesterol                         il1          0.167       76.4
              Liposomes                        Day 14                           Day 35
           Naked A317 RNA                        185                              982
                    P                           2787                            27416
                   Q                              24                              161
                   R                             633                             1715
                    S                            405                             2733
                   T                             761                             2459
   Except for liposome   Q each  of these liposomes performed better than the control. The RV10 lipid in
   liposome   Q has  a pKa of 7.86 which seems too high to be useful in vivo. Even inside the useful pKa
 0 range of 5.0 to 7.6, however, although results were good, none of the lipids with one alkyl tail and
   one steroid-containing tail gave results as good as RV 1.
   Further liposomes were made with RV05. The liposomes all had 40% RV05 and 2% PEGylated
   lipid, but the remaining components varied (although cholesterol was always included). Physical
   characteristics were:
      Name PEGylated lipid             Other components           Zav (am)      pdl       % encapsul"
        U           DMG          10% DSPC, 48% chol                 102.2       0.12         76.81
        V        Cholesterol     10% DSPC, 46% chol, 2% aGC         103.7      0.107         72.58
        W           DMG          10% DPyPE, 48% chol                99.6       0.115         78.34
        X           DMG          10% 18:3 PC, 48% chol               130        0.14         87.92
        Y           DMG          10% 18:2 PC, 48% chol              101.1      0.133         76.64
        Z           DMG          30% 18:2 PC, 28% chol              134.3      0.158         57.76
.5                                                                           aGC = a-galactosylceramide
                                                     -39-

  BALB/c mice were tested as before:
                                     Injection         Day 14        Day 35
                                   Naked RNA            321            915
                                         U              551            955
                                         V              342           2531
                                         W              1127          3881
                                         X              364           1741
                                         Y              567           5679
                                         Z              1251          5303
  For a cationic lipid with an asymmetrical lipid tails (alkyl + cholesterol), changing the neutral lipid
  from DSPC (saturated C18 lipid tail) to 18:2 or 18:3 PC (with 2 and 3 unsaturated double bonds per
5 tail) increased total IgG titers. Comparable results were observed by replacing DSPC with DPyPE.
  Further different cationic ipids with vA 317 RSV replicon
  Cationic lipids disclosed in reference 43 were also used for preparing liposomes for the vA317
  replicon. These cationic lipids have a pKa between 5.8 and 6.1. For comparison DODMA, DlinDMA
  and DOTMA were also tested. Cationic lipid was always present at 40%. All liposomes included
0 cholesterol and 2% PEGylated DMG (PEG2000, except liposomes E which had PEG5000) and were
  made by method (H). Physical characteristics were as follows:
            Cationic lipid    Other lipids                 Zav (nm)            pi        Encaps" %
      A     DlinDMA            10% DSPC, 48% chol            122.3            0.068          95.23
      B     RV16               10% DSPC, 48% chol            148.5            0.088          69.34
      C     RV17               10% DSPC, 48% chol             138             0.098          67.99
      D     DODMA              10% DSPC, 48% chol            107.4            0.151          96.61
      E     DlinDMA            10% DSPC, 48% chol            106.1            0.136          61.61
      F     DOTMA              10% DSPC, 48% chol            89.32            0.164          98.87
      G     DlinDMA            10% 18:2 PC, 48% chol         115.8            0.111          95.67
      H     DlinDMA            10% LPC, 48% chol             116.7            0.143          94.84
      I     DlinDMA            10% DPyPE, 48% chol            134             0.163          96.33
      J     RV05               10% 18:2 PC, 8% chol,         124.7             0.17          61.51
                              40% DPyPE
  These liposomes were used to vaccinate BALB/c mice as before. F-specific serum IgG titers (GMT)
  were as follows:
                                                      45
                                                     -40-

                                     Group           Day 14         Day 35
                                 Naked RNA              28             721
                                        A             2237           12407
                                        B             1107           13981
                                        C             2109           22147
                                        D             2175           24881
                                        E             5654           39927
                                        F              285            6362
                                        G             1058            3467
                                        H             1475           10211
                                        I              557            1363
                                        J              703            1732
  Thus the RV05 liposomes were more immunogenic than naked RNA, but less immunogenic than
  RV01 liposomes.
5 Spleens were harvested at day 49 for T cell analysis. All liposomes gave F-specific cytokine-positive
  T cell frequencies (CD4+ and CD8+) which were statistically significantly above zero.
  Different lipids and PEG lengths
  The vA317 replicon was administered in liposomes having a variety of different lipids with different
  PEG lengths. The liposomes all had 40% DfinDMA, 10% DSPC and 48% cholesterol, but the
0 remaining 2% was varied, with different PEGylated lipids (e.g. FIGS. 18A tol8E) and different PEG
  lengths.
  Physical characteristics of the liposomes, made by method (H), were:
      Name PEGylated lipid PEG length            Zav (om)        pdL       % encapsulat"
         A          DMG                2000        136.3        0.087          85.35
         B          DMG                3000        120.9        0.087          72.06
         C          DMG                1000        175.9        0.111          92.52
         D        FIG. 18A             2000        157.9        0.094          97.44
         E        FIG. 18D             2000        122.2        0.122          77.84
         F        FIG. 18E             2000        129.8        0.125          82.57
         G       Cholesterol           2000        122.9        0.087           87.1
         H        FIG. 18C             2000         138         0.137          78.48
         I        FIG. 18B             2000        113.4        0.091          89.12
                                                   -41-

  BALB/c mice, 8 per group, were given bilateral intramuscular vaccinations (50 aL per leg) on days 0
  and 21 with the replicon, either naked (Ipg) or encapsulated (0.1lpg). Serum was collected for
  antibody analysis on days 14, and 35.
  F-specific serum IgG titers (GMT) were as follows, 2 weeks after the two injections (2wp 1):
                                        RV             2wpl          2wp2
                                  Naked RNA             216           1356
                                         A             3271          15659
                                         B             3860          22378
                                         C             1691           7412
                                         D             1025           1767
                                         E             1618           9536
                                          F            2684          11221
                                         G             3514          10566
                                         H             4142          22810
                                          1             952          10410
5
  The results show a trend, indicating that higher molecular weight PEG head groups are more
  immunogenic. As the length of DMG-conjugated PEG increases from 1000Da to 3000Da the 2wp2
  F-specific IgG titers increase from 7412 to 15659 to 22378.
  Changing the linker region from ester to ether did not impact the titers substantially. Also, at the
0 same molecular weight of the head group (2000) there was a trend that increasing the length of the
  lipid tails lowers the titers (H with C14 dialkyl vs. I with C18 dialkyl). Replacing a PEG di-alkyl
  lipid tail with cholesterol had little impact on immunogenicity (A with DMG vs. G with cholesterol).
  Similar experiments were performed with different lipids in which the 2kDa of PEG is split into 2x
   1kDa groups (FIG. 17). The vA317 replicon was again used, with BALB/c mice, 8 per group, given
5 bilateral intramuscular vaccinations (50ptL per leg) on days 0 & 21 with I ig naked RNA or 0.1 1g
  liposome-encapsulated RNA. The liposomes all had 40% cationic lipid (DlinDMA), 10% DSPC and
  48% cholesterol, but the remaining 2% was varied, with different PEGylated lipids (but all with
  2kDa PEG). They were made by method (H).
  Physical characteristics of the liposomes were:
0
                                                     -42-

          Name             PEGylated lipid         Zav (nm)      pdl     % encapsul"
            A                   DMG                    121      0.101        84.84
             B         Split; R= C14 saturated        141.3     0.049        95.41
             C         Split; R= C16 saturated        114.6     0.101        96.79
            D          Split; R= C18 saturated        116.5     0.088        98.63
             E      Split; R= C18, 1 unsaturated      129.4     0.149        93.37
  Further liposomes were made with RV05. The liposomes all had 40% cationic lipid (RV05) and 2%
  PEGylated lipid (2kDa PEG), but the remaining components varied (although cholesterol was always
5 included). The liposomes were made by method (H) but with pH 5. Physical characteristics were:
     Name PEGylated lipid             Other components        Zav (nm)       pdL     % encapsulo
       F           DMG           10% DSPC, 48% chol             102.2        0.12        76.81
       G       Cholesterol       10% DSPC, 46% chol, 2% aGC     103.7       0.107        72.58
       H           DMG           10% DPyPE, 48% chol             99.6       0.115        78.34
        I          DMG           10% 18:3 PC, 48% chol           130         0.14        87.92
        J          DMG           10% 18:2 PC, 48% chol          101.1       0.133        76.64
       K           DMG           30% 18:2 PC, 28% chol          134.3       0.158        57.76
                                                                         aGC = a-galactosylceramide
  BALB/c mice, 8 per group, were given bilateral intramuscular vaccinations (50 pL per leg) on days 0
  and 21 with the replicon, either naked (lpg) or encapsulated (0.1pg). Serum was collected for
  antibody analysis on days 14, and 35. F-specific serum IgG titers (GMT) were as follows, 2 weeks
0 after the two injections (2wpl):
                                      RV             2wpl          2wp2
                                  Naked RNA           321           915
                                       A             2761          17040
                                       B              866          3657
                                       C             1734          5209
                                       D              426          2079
                                       E             2696          15794
                                       F              551           955
                                       G              342          2531
                                       H             1127          3881
                                       1              364           1741
                                       J              567          5679
                                       K             1251          5303
                                                  -43-

  Splitting the PEG head groups thus lowered in vivo titers. Including a double bond (1 degree of
  instauration per alkyl tail) in the PEG lipid tails increased IgG titers, 6 fold at day 14 and 7 fold at
  day 35.    For a cationic lipid with an asymmetrical lipid tails (alkyl + cholesterol), changing the
5 neutral lipid from DSPC (saturated C18 lipid tail) to 18:2 or 18:3 PC (with 2 and 3 unsaturated
  double bonds per tail) increased total IgG titers. Comparable results were observed with replacement
  of DSPC with DPyPE.
  CMV immanogenicity
  RV01 liposomes with DLinDMA as the cationic lipid were used to deliver RNA replicons encoding
0 cytomegalovirus (CMV) glycoproteins. The "vA160" replicon encodes full-length glycoproteins H
  and L (gH/gL), whereas the "vA322" replicon encodes a soluble form (gHsol/gL). The two proteins
  are under the control of separate subgenomic promoters in a single replicon; co-administration of two
  separate vectors, one encoding gH and one encoding gL, did not give good results.
  BALB/c mice, 10 per group, were given bilateral intramuscular vaccinations (50 ILL per leg) on days
5 0, 21 and 42 with VRPs expressing gH/gL (1x106 IU), VRPs expressing gHsol/gL (1x10 6 IU) and
  PBS as the controls. Two test groups received IAg of the vA160 or vA322 replicon formulated in
  liposomes (40% DlinDMA, 10% DSPC, 48% Chol, 2% PEG-DMG; made using method (D) but with
  150pg RNA batch size).
  The vA160 liposomes had a Zav diameter of 168.8nm, a pdI of 0.144, and 87.4% encapsulation. The
0 vA322 liposomes had a Zav diameter of 16 2nm, a pdI of 0.131, and 90% encapsulation.
  The replicons were able to express two proteins from a single vector.
  Sera were collected for immunological analysis on day 63 (3wp3). CMV neutralization titers (the
  reciprocal of the serum dilution producing a 50% reduction in number of positive virus foci per
  well, relative to controls) were as follows:
          gH/gL VRP                gHsol/gL VRP            gH/gL liposome          gHsol/gL liposome
              4576                      2393                     4240                     10062
  RNA expressing either a full-length or a soluble form of the CMV gH/gL complex thus elicited high
  titers of neutralizing antibodies, as assayed on epithelial cells, The average titers elicited by the
  liposome-encapsulated RNAs were at least as high as for the corresponding VRPs.
  Repeat experiments confirmed that the replicon was able to express two proteins from a single
0 vector. The RNA replicon gave a 3wp3 titer of 11457, compared to 5516 with VRPs.
                                                     -44-

It will be understood that the invention has been described by way of example only and
modifications may be made whilst remaining within the scope and spirit of the invention.
                                              -45-

  Table 1: useful phospho lipids
  DDPC           I ,2-Didecanoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine
  DEPA           I ,2-Diencoyl-sn-Glycero-3-Phosphate
  DEPC           I ,2-Erucoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine
5 DEPE           I ,2-Diercoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylethanolamine
  DEPO           I ,2-Diercoyl-sn-Glycer-3 [Phosphatidyl-rac-( 1-glycerol..)
  DLOPC           I,2-Linoleoyl-srnGlyeero-3-phosphatidylcboline
  DLPA            I,2-Dilauroyl-sn-Glycero-3-Phosphate
  DLPC           I ,2-Dilaiioyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholiie
o DLPE           I ,2-Dilauroyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylethanolarnine
  DLPO           I ,2-Dilauroyl-sn-Glycero-3 [Phosphatidyl-rac-(1-glycerol...)
  DLPS            I,2-Dilauroyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylserine
  DMG            I ,2-Dimydistoyl-sn-glycero-3-pliosphoethanolamine
  DMPA           I ,2-Dimyristoyl-sn-Glycero-3-Phosphiate
5 DMPC           I ,2-Dimyristoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine
  DNvIPE         I ,2-Dimyristoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylethaolamine
  DMPG           I ,2-Myiistoyl-sm-Glycero-3[Phosphatidyl-rac-(I.-glycerol...)
  DMPS           I ,2-Dimyristoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylserinie
  DOPA           I ,2-Dioleoyl-sn-Glycero-3-Phosphate
o DOPC           I ,2-Dioleoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine
  DOPE           I ,2-Dioleoyl-sn-Glyer-3-phosphatidylethanolarnine
  DOPG           I ,2-Dioleoyl-sn-Glycero-3 [Phosphatidyl-rac-(1 -glycerol...)
  flops          i,2-Dioleoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylserine
  DPPA           I ,2-Dipalmitoyl-sn-Glycero-3-Phosphate
5 DPPC           I ,2-Dipalmitoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine
  DPPE           I ,2-Dipahnitoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylethanolamine
  DPPO            I,2-Dipalmiitoyl-sn-Glycero-3 [Phosphatidyl-ra-(1 -glycerol...)
  DPPS           I ,2-Dipalmitoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylserine
  DPyPE          I ,2-diphytanoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethaniolaminie
0 DSPA           I ,2-Distearoyl-sn-Glycero-3-Phosphate
  DSPC           I ,2-Distearoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine
                                                   -46-

  DSPE         1,2-Diostearpyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylethanolamine
  DSPG         1,2-Distearoyl-sn-Glycero-3[Phosphatidyl-rac-(t-glycerol...)
  DSPS         1,2-Distearoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylserine
  EPC          Egg-PC
5 HEPC         Hydrogenated Egg PC
  HSPC         High purity Hydrogenated Soy PC
  HSPC         Hydrogenated Soy PC
  LYSOPC MYRISTIC I-Myristoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine
  LYSOPC PALMITIC I-Palmitoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine
0 LYSOPC STEARIC        I-Stearoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine
  Milk Sphingomyelin MPPC       1-Myristoyl,2-palmitoyl-sn-Glycero 3-phosphatidylcholine
  MSPC         I-Myristoyl,2-stearoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidyleholine
  PMPC         I-Palmitoyl,2-nyristoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine
  POPC         I-Palmitoyl,2-oleoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine
5 POPE         I-Palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylethanolamnine
  POPG         1,2-Dioleoyl-sn-Glycero-3[Phosphatidyl-rac-(I-glycerol)...]
  PSPC         I-Palmitoyl,2-stearoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine
  SMPC         I-Stearoyl,2-myristoyl-sn-Glyeero-3-phosphatidylcholine
  SOPC         I-Stearoyl,2-oleoyl-si-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine
0 SPPC         I -Stearoyl,2-palmitoyl-sn-Glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine
                                                 -47-

REFERENCES
[1] Johanning etal. (1995) Nucleic Acids Res 23:1495-1501.
[2] Heyes etal. (2005)J ControlledRelease 107:276-87.
[3] W02005/121348.
[4] Liposomes: Methods and Protocols, Volume 1: PharmaceuticalNanocarriers: Methods and
Protocols.(ed. Weissig). Humana Press, 2009. ISBN 160327359X.
[5] Liposome Technology, volumes I, 1I & III. (ed. Gregoriadis). Informal Healthcare, 2006.
[6] Functional Polymer Colloids and Microparticles volume 4 (Microspheres, microcapsules &
liposomes). (eds. Arshady & Guyot). Citus Books, 2002.
[7] Jeffs et al. (2005) PharmaceuticalResearch 22 (3):362-372.
[8] W02005/113782.
[9] W02011/005799.
[10] El Ouahabi et al. (1996) FEBSLetts 380:108-12.
[11] Giuliani et al. (2006) ProcNat AcadSci USA 103(29):10834-9.
[12] W02009/016515.
[13] W002/34771.
[14] W02005/032582.
[15] W02010/119343.
[16] W02006/110413.
[17] W02005/111066.
[18] W02005/002619.
[19] W02006/138004.
[20] W02009/109860.
[21] W002/02606.
[22] W003/018054.
[23] W02006/091517.
[24] WO2008/020330.
[25] W02006/089264.
[26] W02009/104092.
[27] W02009/031043.
[28] W02007/049155.
[29] Gennaro (2000) Remington: The Science and PracticeofPhannacv. 20th edition, ISBN: 0683306472.
[30] Methods In Enzymology (S. Colowick and N. Kaplan, eds., Academic Press, Inc.)
[31] Handbook ofExperimental Immunology, Vols. I-IV (D.M. Weir and C.C. Blackwell, eds, 1986,
Blackwell Scientific Publications)
[32] Sambrook et al. (2001) Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 3rd edition (Cold Spring
Harbor Laboratory Press).
[33] HandbookofSurface and Colloidal Chemistry (Birdi, K.S. ed,, CRC Press, 1997)
[34] Ausubel et al. (eds) (2002) Shortprotocols in molecular biology, 5th edition (Current Protocols).
[35] MolecularBiology Techniques: an intensive laboratorycourse (Ream, eds. 1998 Academic Press)
[36] PCR (Introductionto BiotechniquesSeries), 2nd ed. (Newton & Graham eds. 1997, Springer Verlag)
[37] Yoneyama & Fujita (2007) Cytokine & Growth FactorReviews 18:545-51.
[38] Maurer et al (2001) BiophysicalJournal,80: 2310-2326.
[39] Perri et al (2003) J Virol 77:10394-10403.
                                                   -48-

[40] Boxus et al. (2007) J Virol 81:6879-89.
[41] Taylor et al. (2005) Vaccine 23:1242-50.
[42] W02011/076807.
[43] W02011/057020.
                                              -49-

   CLAIMS
   1. A liposome within which RNA encoding an immunogen of interest is encapsulated, wherein the
       liposome has a diameter in the range of 60-180nm.
   2. The liposome of claim 1, wherein the liposome has a diameter in the range of 80-160nm.
 5 3. The liposome of any preceding claim, wherein the liposome comprises a lipid with a cationic
       head group.
   4. The liposome of any preceding claim, wherein the liposome comprises a lipid with a zwitterionic
       head group.
   5. The liposome of any preceding claim, wherein the RNA is a self-replicating RNA.
 0 6. The liposome of claim 5, wherein the self-replicating RNA molecule encodes (i) a RNA
       dependent RNA polymerase which can transcribe RNA from the self-replicating RNA molecule
       and (ii) an immunogen.
   7. The liposome of claim 6, wherein the RNA molecule has two open reading frames, the first of
       which encodes an alphavirus replicase and the second of which encodes the immunogen.
 5 8. The liposome of any preceding claim, wherein the RNA molecule is 9000-12000 nucleotides
       long.
   9. The liposome of any preceding claim, wherein the immunogen can elicit an immune response in
       vivo against a bacterium, a virus, a fungus or a parasite.
   10. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a liposome of any preceding claim.
 0 11. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a population of liposomes, wherein the average
       diameter of the liposomes in the population is between 60nm and 180nm inclusive.
   12. A method for raising a protective immune response in a vertebrate, comprising the step of
       administering to the vertebrate an effective amount of the liposome of claims 1-9, or the
       pharmaceutical composition of claim 10 or claim 11.
!5
                                                     -50-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
