                                             ABSTRACT
                 Woven preforms, for example those used for jet aircraft engine fancases, may
  need additional stiffeners to improve the strength and/or dynamic performance of the preform
  assembly, as well as to serve as attachment points. The present invention describes several
5 improved woven preforms that include circumferential or axial stiffeners, as well as methods of
  manufacturing the same. One embodiment includes circumferential stiffeners added to a woven
  preform. Another embodiment includes sub-preforms with integral flanges that combine to
  make integral stiffeners. A further embodiment includes an intermediate stiffener wrapped onto
  a base sub-preform wrap, wherein the intermediate stiffener wrap incorporates intermediate
0 stiffeners. Another embodiment incorporates bifurcations in one or more layers of an outermost
  wrap of a multi-layer fabric composite that forms a preform, wherein the bifurcated outer wrap is
  folded to form stiffeners that may be oriented circumferentially or axially.

               CIRCUMFERENTIAL STIFFENERS FOR COMPOSITE FANCASES
                   This application has been divided out of Australian patent
   application 2013334970 (AU 2013334970). In the description in this specification reference
 5 may be made to subject matter which is not within the scope of the appended claims. That
   subject matter should be readily identifiable by a person skilled in the art and may assist in
   putting into practice the invention as defined in the presently appended claims.
                   AU 2013334970 is the national phase entry in Australia of PCT international
   application PCT/US2013/065874 (published as WO 2014/066229 Al). The full disclosure of
10 WO 2014/066229 Al is incorporated herein by reference.
                                BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                                          Field of the Invention
15                 The present invention relates to circumferential stiffeners for composite
   preforms, and more particularly for manufacturing preforms that may be processed to form
   fancase preforms for jet aircraft engines.
                                       Incoiporation by Reference
20                 All patents, patent applications, documents, references, manufacturer's
   instructions, descriptions, product specifications, and product sheets for any products
   mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference, and may be employed in the practice
   of the invention.
25                                    Background of the Invention
                   The use of reinforced composite materials to produce structural components is
   now widespread, particularly in applications where their desirable characteristics are sought,
   including being light in weight, strong, tough, thermally resistant, self-supporting and
   adaptable to being formed and shaped.
30                 In this regard, contour woven preforms are used to provide fiber reinforcement
   in resin transfer molded articles, for example fancases for jet engines. Such preforms are
                                                     1
   10201655 _.doc

   engineered to have a specific cross-sectional shape when they are wound onto an
   appropriately sized mandrel. These shapes can generally be described as a variable thickness
   barrel section with an integral flange at either end.
                    Typically, such preforms consist of fabrics which are woven from materials
 5 such as glass, carbon, ceramic, aramid, polyethylene, and/or other materials which exhibit
   desired physical, thermal, chemical and/or other properties, chief among which is great
   strength against stress failure. Through the use of such fabrics, which ultimately become a
   constituent element of the completed composite article, the composite preform imparts the
   desired characteristics of the fabrics, such as very high strength, into the completed composite
10 article. Usually particular attention is paid to ensure the optimum utilization of the properties
   for which the fabrics have been selected.
                    After the desired preform has been constructed, a molding or densifying
   operation takes place where a resin matrix material may be introduced to and into the woven
   preform, so that typically the preform becomes encased in the resin matrix material that fills
15 the interstitial areas between the constituent elements of the preform. The resin matrix
   material may be any of a wide variety of materials, such as epoxy, phenolic, polyester, vinyl
   ester, ceramic, carbon and/or other materials, which also exhibit desired physical, thermal,
   chemical and/or other properties. The materials chosen for use as the resin matrix may or
   may not be the same as that of the reinforcement preform and may or may not have
20 comparable physical, chemical, thermal or other properties. Typically, however, they will not
   be of the same materials or have comparable physical, chemical, thermal or other properties,
   since a usual objective sought in using composites in the first place is to achieve a
   combination of characteristics in the finished product that is not attainable through the use of
   one constituent material alone. So combined, the woven preform and the matrix material may
25 then be cured and stabilized in the same operation by thermosetting or other known methods,
   and then subjected to other operations toward producing the desired component. It is
   significant to note at this point that after being so cured, the then solidified mass of the matrix
   material normally is very strongly adhered to the reinforcing material (e.g., the woven
   preform). As a result, stress on the finished component, particularly via its matrix material
30 acting as an adhesive between fibers, may be effectively transferred to and borne by the
   constituent material of the preform.
   10201655 _.doe

                    Fancases for jet engines, such as the example shown in Fig. 1, using contour
   woven preforms that provide fiber reinforcement, and then impregnated for example by resin
   transfer molding, are already known in the art. Use of this type of prefonn offers several
   advantages, some of which are: provide continuous fiber in the circumferential and axial
 5 directions; minimize touch labor through the elimination of cutting and darting; and minimize
   process waste by eliminating the need for cutting and darting.
                                       Summary of the Invention
                    However, while current woven preforms are adequate for many applications,
10 there are situations in which a fancase requires additional circumferential or axial stiffeners at
   one or more axial locations. Therefore, it would be an advancement in the state of the art to
   provide a contour woven preform enhanced with intermediate circumferential stiffeners that
   are used to improve the strength and/or dynamic performance of the preform. When used for
   a fancase, such stiffeners may also serve as attachment points for the fancase itself or for
15 attaching auxiliary equipment. This disclosure describes several improved preform
   assemblies that include circumferential stiffeners, as well as methods of manufacturing the
   same.
                    In accordance with a one aspect of the invention, there is provided a woven
   preform assembly comprising: a first sub-preform comprising one or more wraps of a
20 continuous woven fabric about a centerline or an appropriately designed mandrel to form at
   least one substantially barrel-shaped circumference around the centerline, wherein said wraps
   have a first integral flange disposed on a first edge of said woven fabric that forms a first edge
   circumference around said centerline and a second integral flange disposed on a second edge
   of said woven fabric that forms a second edge circumference around said centerline; at least
25 two outer sub-preforms, each of said outer sub-preforms comprising: one or more wraps of a
   continuous woven fabric about the centerline to form at least two substantially barrel-shaped
   circumferential surfaces around said centerline, wherein said wraps have a first outer sub
   preform integral flange disposed on a first edge of said outer sub-preform woven fabric that
   forms a first outer sub-preform edge circumference around said centerline and a second outer
30 sub-preform integral flange disposed on a second edge of said outer sub-preform woven fabric
   that forms a second edge circumference around said centerline; each said outer sub-preform
                                                     3
   10201655 _.doc

   substantially barrel-shaped circumference wraps around said first sub-preform substantially
   barrel-shaped circumference; and adjacent outer sub-preform integral flanges are in contact
   with each other and comprise integral stiffeners.
                    In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a woven
 5 preform assembly comprising: a sub-preform comprising one or more wraps of a continuous
   woven fabric about a centerline of an appropriately designed mandrel to form a substantially
   barrel-shaped circumference, wherein said wraps have a first integral flange disposed on a
   first edge of said woven fabric that forms a first edge circumference around said centerline
   and a second integral flange disposed on a second edge of said woven fabric that forms a
10 second edge circumference around said centerline; and an intermediate stiffener wrap
   comprised of one or more wraps of continuous woven fabric about the centerline that forms
   an intermediate stiffener wrap around the substantially barrel-shaped circumference around
   said centerline in contact with said sub-preform substantially barrel-shaped circumference,
   wherein said intermediate stiffener wrap has a first intermediate stiffener integral flange
15 disposed on a first edge of said intermediate stiffener wrap woven fabric and a second
   intermediate stiffener integral flange disposed on a second edge of said intermediate stiffener
   woven fabric that forms a second edge circumference around said centerline, wherein said
   intermediate stiffener wrap incorporates one or more intermediate stiffeners disposed between
   said first intermediate stiffener integral flange and said second intermediate stiffener integral
20 flange.
                    In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a woven
   preform assembly comprising: one or more wraps of a continuous woven fabric about a
   centerline of an appropriately designed mandrel to form a barrel-shaped circumference,
   wherein said wraps have a first integral flange disposed on a first edge of said woven fabric
25 that forms a first edge circumference around said centerline and a second integral flange
   disposed on a second edge of said woven fabric that forms a second edge circumference
   around said centerline; an outermost wrap of said woven fabric is bifurcated in the outermost
   layer of said woven fabric; and said bifurcated outermost layer is folded up to make a one or
   more stiffeners.
30                  In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a woven
   preform comprising the steps of: wrapping a continuous woven fabric around a centerline one
                                                     4
   10201655 _.doe

   or more times to form a circumferential surface around said centerline; wrapping one or more
   circumferential stiffeners around said continuous woven fabric so that said circumferential
   stiffeners abut against said circumferential surface around said centerline.
                   In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a method
 5 of manufacturing a woven preform comprising the steps of: wrapping a continuous woven
   fabric one or more times around a centerline to form a circumferential surface around said
   centerline; and wrapping one or more circumferential stiffeners around said circumferential
   surface so that said circumferential stiffeners abut and form an arc around said circumferential
   surface.
10                 In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a method
   of manufacturing a woven preform comprising the steps of: wrapping a continuous woven
   fabric one or more times around a centerline to form a first sub-preform circumferential
   surface around said centerline, wherein said first sub-preform has a first integral flange
   disposed on a first edge of said woven fabric that forms a first edge circumference around said
15 centerline and a second integral flange disposed on a second edge of said woven fabric that
   forms a second edge circumference around said centerline; wrapping one or more additional
   sub-preforms around said first sub-preform, wherein said additional sub-preforms have a first
   outer sub-preform integral flange disposed on a first edge of said outer sub-preform woven
   fabric that forms a first edge circumference around said centerline and a second outer sub
20 preform integral flange disposed on a second edge of said outer sub-preform woven fabric
   that forms a second edge circumference around said centerline; and forming integral stiffeners
   by aligning each adjacent outer sub-preform integral flange so that such adjacent outer sub
   preform integral flanges are in contact with each other.
                   In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a method
25 of manufacturing a woven preform comprising the steps of: wrapping a continuous woven
   fabric one or more times around a centerline to form a sub-preform circumferential surface
   around said centerline, wherein said sub-preform has a first integral flange disposed on a first
   edge of said woven fabric that forns a first edge circumference around said centerline and a
   second integral flange disposed on a second edge of said woven fabric that forms a second
30 edge circumference around said centerline; forming intermediate stiffeners in an intermediate
   stiffener wrap; and wrapping said intermediate stiffener wrap around said sub-preform.
                                                    5
   10201655 _.doc

                   In accordance with a still further aspect of the invention, there is provided a
   method of manufacturing a woven preform comprising the steps of: wrapping a continuous
   woven fabric one or more times around a centerline to form a circumferential surface around
   said centerline; bifurcating an outermost layer of an outermost wrap; and folding said
 5 bifurcated layer to make a circumferential blade stiffener.
                   Disclosed herein is a woven preform comprised of one or more wraps of a
   continuous single-layer or multi-layer fabric to form a barrel-shaped circumference, or a ring,
   around a centerline of an appropriately designed mandrel. The wraps of fabric can form an
   integral flange disposed on a first edge of the woven fabric that forms a first edge
10 circumference around the centerline. The wraps of fabric can also form an integral flange
   disposed on a second edge of the woven fabric that forms a second edge circumference
   around the centerline.
                   While the wraps of fabric are described as forming a "barrel-shaped"
   circumference, the preforms are generally configured as a cylinder with cylinder walls that
15 may bulge out, bulge in, or may bulge out in some areas and bulge in at others. Throughout
   this disclosure, the terms barrel, barrel-shaped, and variations there of, are used in accordance
   with this description of the variations in the preform shape.
                    Stiffeners, flanges, or both stiffeners and flanges, may be formed on the outer
   surface of the preform by at least partially circumferentially wrapping one or more layers of
20 woven fabrics around the preform. Stiffeners may be formed at a location between the first
   and second fabric edges of the preform; and flanges may be formed at the edges of the
   preform. One or more circumferential stiffeners may be formed from separate contour
   woven fabrics and are adjacent to and in contact with, or abutting, the barrel-shaped
   circumference of the preform around the centerline. One or more circumferential stiffeners
25 and/or one or more flanges may be formed from fabrics comprising stretch broken fibers in
   the warp direction, the weft direction, or in both the warp and weft directions.
                   One embodiment forms one or more circumferential stiffeners comprised of
   one or more wraps of a single-layer fabric.
                   One embodiment forms one or more circumferential stiffeners comprised of
30 one or more wraps of a multi-layer fabric.
                                                      6
   10201655 _.doc

                    One embodiment forms one or more circumferential stiffeners comprised of
   one or more layers of a single or multi-layer woven fabric comprising stretch broken fibers in
   the warp, weft, or warp and weft directions.
                    One embodiment further comprises a preform with one or more
 5 circumferential stiffeners wherein one or more lengths of woven material are inserted at a bias
   between layers of the contour woven fabric.
                    One embodiment further comprises a preform with one or more
   circumferential stiffeners affixed to the preform prior to molding, and the stiffener sections
   and/or the preform layers themselves reinforced through T-forming (see U.S. Pat. No.
10 6,103,337, the content of which is which is incorporated herein by reference), tufting,
   stitching or other techniques known to those in the art.
                    One embodiment comprises woven fabrics made from material selected from
   the group consisting of aramid, carbon, nylon, rayon, polyester, and glass fibers.
                    Disclosed herein is a woven preform, suitable, for example, for a composite
15 fancase, with a first sub-preform comprising one or more wraps of a continuous woven fabric
   to form, for example, a barrel-shaped circumference, or ring, around a centerline of an
   appropriately designed mandrel. The wraps of fabric can form an integral flange disposed on
   a first edge of the woven fabric that forms a first edge circumference around the centerline.
   The wraps of fabric can also form an integral flange disposed on a second edge of the woven
20 fabric that forms a second edge circumference around the centerline. At least two second, or
   outer, sub-preforms are formed on the substantially barrel-shaped circumference of the first
   sub-preform. Each of the second sub-preforms is comprised of one or more wraps of a
   continuous woven fabric to form at least one barrel-shaped circumference around the
   centerline of the first sub-preform. The wraps of fabric of the second sub-preforms can form
25 a first outer sub-preform integral flange disposed on a first edge of the outer sub-preform
   fabric that forms a first edge circumference around the centerline, as well as a second outer
   sub-preform integral flange disposed on a second edge of the outer sub-prefonn woven fabric
   that forms a second edge circumference around the centerline. The substantially barrel
   shaped circumference of each outer, or second, sub-preform wraps around the first sub
30 preform's substantially barrel-shaped circumference. The second sub-preform integral
                                                    7
   10201655 _.doc

   flanges may form integral stiffeners. Second sub-preform integral flanges may be in contact
   with, or abutting, other flanges and may, in combination, be considered integral stiffeners.
                    One embodiment forms one or more circumferential stiffeners from the flanges
   of adjacent second sub-preforms. According to some embodiments, lengths of woven
 5 material may be inserted at a bias between adjacent flanges of some of the sub-prefonns.
                   One embodiment has the first sub-preform assembled before the outer sub
   preforms are assembled to be in contact with the first sub-preform's substantially barrel
   shaped circumference.
                    One embodiment has the first sub-preform assembled and molded before the
10 outer sub-preforms are assembled to be in contact with the first sub-preform's substantially
   barrel-shaped circumference.
                   Disclosed herein is a woven preform comprising a sub-preform of one or more
   wraps of a continuous single-layer or multi-layer woven fabric to form a substantially barrel
   shaped circumference around a centerline. The wraps can form a first integral flange disposed
15 on a first edge of the woven fabric that forms a first edge circumference around said
   centerline and can form a second integral flange disposed on a second edge of the woven
   fabric that forms a second edge circumference around the centerline. Intermediate stiffeners
   may be comprised of one or more wraps of a continuous single-layer or multi-layer woven
   fabric forming intermediate stiffeners about the substantially barrel-shaped circumference
20 around the centerline. The layers of woven fabric forming the intennediate stiffeners wrap
   may have a first intermediate stiffener integral flange disposed on a first edge of the
   intennediate stiffener wrap of woven fabric and a second intermediate stiffener integral flange
   disposed on a second edge of the intermediate stiffener wrap of woven fabric that forms a
   second edge circumference around the centerline. The intermediate stiffener wraps may
25 incorporate one or more intermediate stiffeners disposed between the first intermediate
   stiffener integral flange and the second intermediate stiffener integral flange. The layers of
   woven fabric that form the intermediate stiffeners wrap barrel-shaped circumference wraps
   around the sub-preform barrel-shaped circumference.
                   One embodiment further comprises a preform with one or more
30 circumferential stiffeners affixed to the preform prior to molding, and the stiffener sections
                                                    8
   10201655_1.doe

   and/or the preform layers themselves reinforced through T-Forming, tufting, stitching, or
   other techniques known to those in the art.
                    Disclosed herein is a composite fancase comprising one or more wraps of a
   continuous single-layer or multi-layer woven fabric to form a substantially barrel-shaped
 5 circumference around a centerline of an appropriately designed mandrel. The wraps may
   have a first integral flange disposed on a first edge of the woven fabric that forms a first edge
   circumference around the centerline and may have a second integral flange disposed on a
   second edge of the woven fabric that forms a second edge circumference around the
   centerline. An outermost wrap of the multi-layer woven fabric may be bifurcated in the outer
10 surface layer, and the bifurcated outer surface layer may be folded up to make a stiffener. The
   bifurcation of the outermost wrap of the outermost layer may be made in the warp direction or
   in the weft direction to provide stiffeners in the circumferential or axial direction,
   respectively.
                    One embodiment forms one or more stiffeners that are oriented axially with the
15 centerline.
                    One embodiment forms one or more stiffeners that are oriented
   circumferentially with the centerline.
                    One embodiment forms one or more circumferential stiffeners that are in
   contact with the substantially barrel-shaped circumference.
20                  Disclosed herein is a method of manufacturing a woven preform comprising
   the steps of wrapping a continuous single-layer or multi-layer woven fabric one or more times
   around a centerline to form a circumference around the centerline, and wrapping one or more
   circumferential stiffeners around the continuous woven fabric so that the circumferential
   stiffeners form a circumference around the centerline.
25                  One embodiment further comprises a preform with one or more
   circumferential stiffeners affixed to the preform prior to molding, and the stiffener sections
   and/or the preform layers themselves are reinforced through T-Forming, tufting, stitching, or
   other techniques known to those in the art.
                    One embodiment molds the continuous woven fabric after it has been wrapped
30 one or more times around a centerline to form a circumference around the centerline.
                                                     9
   10201655 _.doc

                   One embodiment co-molds one or more circumferential stiffeners with the
   continuous woven fabric after they have been wrapped one or more times around a centerline
   to form a circumference around the centerline.
                   One embodiment molds circumferential stiffeners onto the molded continuous
 5 woven fabric.
                   Disclosed herein is a method of manufacturing a woven preform comprising
   the steps of wrapping a continuous single-layer or multi-layer woven fabric one or more times
   around a centerline to form a circumferential surface around the centerline, and at least
   partially wrapping one or more circumferential stiffeners upon the circumferential surface to
10 form an arc around the centerline.
                   Disclosed herein is a method of manufacturing a woven preform comprising
   the steps of wrapping a continuous single-layer or multi-layer woven fabric one or more times
   around a centerline to form a first sub-preform that forms a circumference around the
   centerline, wherein the first sub-preform may have a first integral flange disposed on a first
15 edge of the woven fabric that forms a first edge circumference around the centerline and may
   have a second integral flange disposed on a second edge of the woven fabric that forns a
   second edge circumference around the centerline, wrapping one or more additional sub
   preforms that have a first outer sub-preform integral flange disposed on a first edge of the
   outer sub-preform woven fabric that forms a first edge circumference around the centerline
20 and a second outer sub-preform integral flange disposed on a second edge of the outer sub
   preform woven fabric that forms a second edge circumference around the centerline, and
   forming integral stiffeners by aligning each adjacent outer sub-preform integral flange so that
   the adjacent outer sub-preform integral flanges are in contact with, or abutting, each other.
                   Disclosed herein is a method of manufacturing a woven preform comprising
25 the steps of wrapping a continuous single-layer or multi-layer woven fabric one or more times
   around a centerline to forn a sub-preform that forms a circumference around the centerline,
   wherein the sub-preform may have a first integral flange disposed on a first edge of the woven
   fabric that forms a first edge circumference around the centerline and may have a second
   integral flange disposed on a second edge of the woven fabric that forms a second edge
30 circumference around the centerline, fonning intermediate stiffeners in an intermediate
   stiffener wrap, and wrapping the intermediate stiffener wrap around the sub-prefonn.
                                                  10
   10201655 _.doc

                   Disclosed herein is a method of manufacturing a woven preform comprising
   the steps of wrapping a continuous single-layer or multi-layer woven fabric one or more times
   around a centerline to form a circumference around the centerline, bifurcating the outermost
   layer of the outermost wrap of the single-layer or multi-layer woven fabric, and folding the
 5 bifurcated layers to make a circumferential stiffener.
                   An embodiment of the invention seeks to provide woven preform assemblies
   incorporating circumferential stiffeners useful, for example, in forming jet engine fancases.
                   Additionally or alternatively, an embodiment of the invention seeks to provide
   methods of manufacturing the woven preform assemblies incorporating circumferential
10 stiffeners, useful, for example, in forming jet engine fancases.
                   Additionally or alternatively, an embodiment of the invention seeks to at least
   provide the public with a useful choice.
                   For a better understanding of the invention, and its operating advantages
   attained by its uses, reference is made to the accompanying descriptive matter in which
15 preferred, but non-limiting, embodiments of the invention are illustrated.
                   Terms "comprising" and "comprises" in this disclosure can mean "including"
   and "includes" or can have the meaning commonly given to the term "comprising" or
   "comprises" in US Patent Law. Terms "consisting essentially of' or "consists essentially of'
   if used in the claims have the meaning ascribed to them in US Patent Law. Other aspects of
20 the invention are described in or are obvious from (and within the ambit of the invention) the
   following disclosure.
                                   Brief Description of the Drawings
                   The accompanying drawings, which are included to provide a further
25 understanding of the invention, are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification.
   The drawings presented herein illustrate different embodiments of the invention and together
   with the description serve to explain the principles of the invention. In the drawings:
                   Fig. 1 shows a known prior art fancase fabricated using a contour woven fiber
   preform;
30                 Fig. 2 shows a schematic of a known prior art contour woven fancase preform;
                                                    11
   10201655 _.doc

                   Fig. 3 shows an assembly of contour woven stiffeners added to a woven
   preform according to an embodiment of the invention;
                   Fig. 4 shows stiffeners formed by combining multiple sub-preforms with the
   woven preform according to an embodiment of the invention;
 5                 Fig. 5 shows multiple stiffeners in a single sub-preform formed according to an
   embodiment of the invention;
                   Fig. 6 shows an integral stiffener formed by bifurcating the outermost layer of
   the outermost wrap of one of the multi-layer fabrics used to form a woven preform according
   to an embodiment of the invention; and
10                 Fig. 7 shows various shapes of woven preforms that may be produced
   according to the embodiments of the present invention.
                          Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
                   The instant invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with
15 reference to the accompanying drawings, in which preferred embodiments of the invention are
   shown. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not
   be construed as limited to the illustrated embodiments set forth herein. Rather, these
   illustrated embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete,
   and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.
20                 In the following description, like reference characters designate like or
   corresponding parts throughout the figures. Additionally, in the following description, it is
   understood that such terms as "upper," "lower," "top" and "bottom" and the like are words of
   convenience and are not to be construed as limiting terms.
                   As described herein, circumferential stiffeners are incorporated into an
25 assembly of woven preforms, often suitable for use as composite fancases for jet engines,
   which are generally cylindrical or substantially "barrel shaped". While the assembly of
   woven preforms is described as "barrel-shaped", the preforms are generally configured as a
   cylinder with a cylinder wall that may bulge out, bulge in, or may bulge out in some areas and
   bulge in at others, such as those shown in Fig. 7, for example. Throughout this disclosure, the
30 terms barrel, barrel-shaped, and variations there of, are used in accordance with this
   description of the variations in the preform shape.
                                                    12
   10201655 _.doc

                   In other words, the fancases have a center line and the woven preform
   assemblies, also comprising the circumferential stiffeners, make a circumference around the
   center line of an appropriately designed mandrel for fabrication of the fancase. These
   stiffeners provide increased strength to the fancase and can also provide attachment points for
 5 mounting other pieces of equipment to the fancase by, for example, bolting such equipment to
   the circumferential stiffener. Additionally, such stiffeners may also be used for mounting the
   fancase to, for example, structural components. The assembly of woven preforms with
   circumferential stiffeners may be useful as fancase preforms forjet aircraft engines.
                   Turning to the figures, Fig. 1 shows a prior art fancase (100) fabricated using a
10 known contour woven fiber preform. The fancase (100) of Fig. 1 includes a substantially
   barrel-shaped body (101). The barrel-shaped body (101) may include barrel sections of
   variable thickness. At either end of the barrel-shaped body (101) are integral flanges (102)
   and (103) that are formed from the woven preform. The path of the warp fibers (running in
   the circumferential direction) are engineered to have the proper lengths in the final shaped
15 configuration without the need for cutting and darting. These integral flanges provide
   circumferential stiffening of the preform. However, while the fancase (100) of Fig. I is
   adequate for many applications, there are also times where it is desirable or necessary to
   incorporate additional circumferential stiffeners at one or more axial locations. Such
   additional circumferential stiffeners are used to improve the strength and/or dynamic
20 performance of the fancase. Additionally, circumferential stiffeners may serve as attachment
   points, for example for auxiliary equipment.
                   Fig. 2 is a schematic, or partial cross-section of a prior art fancase preform, like
   that of Fig. 1, which exemplifies current technology. For convenience, only one half of the
   preform is shown and the barrel section is illustrated with a constant thickness. In Fig. 2, a
25 cross section of the preform is shown consisting of four continuous wraps (202), (203), (204),
   and (205) of woven fabric that trace a circumference around centerline (201) of an
   appropriately designed mandrel. In other words, in Fig. 2 the end of the first wrap (202)
   connects to the beginning of the second wrap (203), the end of the second wrap (203)
   connects to the beginning of the third wrap (204), the end of the third wrap (204) connects to
30 the beginning of the fourth wrap (205), etc. Additionally, this fabric does not have to be a
   uniform thickness and the body (101) of the prefonn between the flanges (102), (103) does
                                                     13
   10201655 _.doc

   not have to be cylindrical (e.g., can be substantially barrel-shaped or other shapes shown in
   Fig. 7, for example). While Fig. 2 shows four wraps of this continuous woven fabric, a final
   prefonn may have any number of wraps.
                    Typically, the fabrics used for such preforms are woven on a loom fitted with a
 5 special takeup system that allows warp fibers to have different lengths. The warp fibers are in
   the circumferential direction of the fancase. The paths of the warp fibers are engineered to
   have the proper lengths in the final shaped configuration without the usual need for any
   cutting and/or darting, resulting in a contour woven fabric. The fabric may be single-layer or
   multi-layer.
10                  Fibers or yams typically used to weave the fabrics for such preforms may
   comprise one or more materials selected from the group consisting of aramid, carbon, nylon,
   rayon, polyester, and glass fiber.
                    Embodiments of the invention may be useful in the fabrication of fancases for
   jet engines, typically used in aircraft. In the following discussion, the preform assembly may
15  be referred to as a fancase preform as an illustrative use for the inventive preform assembly,
   not as a limitation. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize other uses for the disclosed
   woven preform assemblies which would take advantage of the enhanced performance
   characteristics provided by the inventive preform assembly.
                    An embodiment provides a preform assembly by a method of adding additional
20 circumferential stiffeners to a contour woven preform assembly. In this embodiment, layers
   of woven fabric are wrapped around an appropriately designed mandrel to form a fancase
   preform like that shown in Fig. 2. An example of this is shown schematically in Fig. 3, which
   also depicts two single- or multi-layer woven fabrics at least partially wrapped around the
   circumference of the wraps of the contour woven fabric, forming circumferential stiffeners
25 (301) and (302). The quantity, relative shapes, and sizes of such woven circumferential
   stiffeners are not intended to be limited by the exemplary schematic in Fig. 3. The individual
   circumferential stiffeners need not be similar in shape or size to one another. Also, the body
   (101) of the preform between the flanges (102), (103) does not have to be cylindrical and can
   have a substantially barrel shape (101). It can also be of non-uniform thickness.
30                  The woven fabric used to form the stiffeners (301), (302) may be a contour
   woven fabric in which the length of the warp fibers can be varied across the width of the
                                                     14
    10201655 _.doc

   fabric. The varied lengths are engineered to allow the stiffener to be positioned in its final
   shaped configuration.
                   In other embodiments, the fabric used to form the stiffeners (301), (302) is
   composed of stretch broken (SB) fibers in at least the warp (circumferential) direction of the
 5 stiffener. However, these SB fibers, for example, carbon, may also be used in the weft (axial)
   direction, or both. The stretch broken fibers also allow the stiffener to be positioned in its
   final shaped configuration.
                   The circumferential stiffeners (301), (302) may be built up using multiple
   wraps of a single-layer fabric, or perhaps a lesser number of wraps when using a multi-layer
10 woven fabric. Regardless of this, the circumferential stiffeners can be wound onto/over the
   dry base preform already on the mandrel and co-molded, or they can be wound onto a molded
   fancase preform already on the mandrel and molded in a secondary operation forming the
   final composite.
                   The circumferential stiffeners (301), (302) may include lengths of additional
15 woven material that is inserted between the layers of the woven fabric if desirable, as it is
   wound about the circumference of the preform base such that the yarns of the inserted
   material are at an angle of orientation (on a bias) to the yarns of the fabric layers forcing the
   stiffeners. Such "bias" fabrics could also be inserted between the wraps of fabric (202-205)
   as they are wound about the mandrel. Furthermore, additional through-thickness
20 reinforcement of the preform assembly can be provided by, for example, T-forming, tufting,
   or stitching through the stiffeners themselves and/or to attach the stiffener layers (301, 302) to
   the preform layers (202-205) prior to molding and resin impregnation. The circumferential
   stiffeners (301), (302) may extend only partially around the circumference of the fancase
   preform (100). Partially extending stiffeners (301), (302) may also be T-formed, tufted, or
25 stitched through the layers themselves or onto the dry base fancase preform prior to molding
   to provide through thickness reinforcement to the body (101) of the preform (100).
                   In addition, the stiffeners can be complete circumferential rings, or they may
   be only arc segments that do not wrap around the full circumference of the preform, or they
   may be a combination of complete circumferential rings and arc segments. For example, arc
30 segments are a beneficial option when the circumferential stiffeners are used for equipment
   mounting points that do not require full circumferential rings. In this case, the preform
                                                    15
   10201655 _.doc

   assembly will also comprise sections of the woven fabric that are cut to length and may be
   stacked on top of one another, to the extent necessary, to build up the thickness of the arc
   segment.
                    Thus, the circumferential stiffeners can be multiple wraps of a single-layer
 5 fabric, multiple wraps of a multi-layer fabric, full circumferential rings, partial stiffeners (i.e.,
   arcs), and they may be wound onto the circumferential surface of the contour woven base
   preform, with or without T-forming, tufting or stitching, and co-molded. Alternately they
   may be wound onto the circumferential surface of the already molded preform base, and
   molded in a secondary operation forming the final composite. Different fabrics may also be
10 selected for each circumferential stiffener, and the fabrics forming the circumferential
   stiffeners and the base preform need not be the same type of fabric. Additionally, the fabrics
   used do not have to be a uniform thickness, but may have thicker or thinner regions as
   required.
                    Another embodiment of a composite fancase with additional circumferential
15 stiffeners is shown in Fig. 4, which shows an exemplary embodiment that uses several woven
   sub-preforms, each of which may include one or more wraps around an appropriately
   designed mandrel. The woven sub-preforms may be formed from a fabric at least partially
   woven from stretch -broken fibers or yarns or may be formed from contour woven fabric. In
   Fig. 4, the first sub-preform includes wraps (202) and (203) of a contour woven fabric around
20 an appropriately designed mandrel. Outer sub-preforms include multiple wraps of woven
   fabrics as demonstrated by a second sub-preform including wraps (401) and (402), a third
   sub-preform including wraps (403) and (404), and a fourth sub-preform including wraps (405)
   and (406).
                    All of the sub-preforms are fabricated and combined to make the final fancase
25 preform assembly. Each of these sub-preforms consists of a base section with integral flanges
   and/or stiffeners at either end. An integral stiffener is one whose layer or layers have through
   fibers connecting it to the base. An intermediate stiffener is located in one or more locations
   between the end flanges. Intermediate stiffeners may be integral or not. The number of
   wraps used for any or all of the sub-preforms can be varied, and are not intended to be limited
30 by the exemplary schematic shown in Fig. 4. Similarly, the relative shapes and sizes of such
   contour woven fabric sub-preforms are not intended to be limited by the exemplary schematic
                                                    16
   10201655 _.doc

   in Fig. 4. Additionally, the woven fabrics used do not have to be a uniform thickness, but
   may have thicker or thinner regions as desired. Also, the body (101) of the preform between
   the flanges (102), (103) does not have to be perfectly cylindrical (e.g., can be substantially
   barrel-shaped or any shape shown in Fig. 7, for example) or of uniform thickness. Different
 5 fabrics may also be selected for each sub-preform.
                    In this embodiment, the first sub-preform containing wraps (202) and (203) is
   very similar to the basic preform shown in Fig. 2, except that it does not have as many wraps
   and only accounts for part of the full thickness of the preform. Two or more other sub
   preforns, called outer sub-preforms-such as those in Fig. 4 that include wraps (401) and
10 (402), wraps (403) and (404), and wraps (405) and (406)-are wound over the first sub
   preform that includes wraps (202) and (203). Thus, the combination of all of the sub
   preforms completes the full thickness of the substantially barrel-shaped body (101) of the
   preform assembly, as well as the thickness of the integral flanges (102) and (103) that are
   formed by those sub-preforms whose integral flanges are aligned on an outer edge. The other
15 integral flanges of these sub-preforms combine to make the integral stiffeners (407) and (408)
   that are disposed between the integral flanges (102) and (103) on the barrel-shaped body
   (101) of the preform assembly. Circumferential stiffeners like those described in the first
   embodiment and illustrated in Fig. 3 may also be incorporated into this embodiment.
                    Lengths of woven material (not shown) may be placed between the integral
20 flanges of any of the sub-preforms illustrated, for example, in Fig. 4. For example, one or
   more lengths of woven material may be placed between the integral flanges fonned by wraps
   405 and 406 in one outer sub-preform. One or more lengths of woven material may also be
   placed between wraps 403 and 405 of adjacent outer sub-preforms, or between wrap 405 and
   integral flange 103 of the first sub-preform, or between flange 102 and wrap 401. These
25 reinforcement layers therefore can be placed between the layers of any of the wraps 101-406,
   and within any of the layers forming the flanges 102, 103, 407, and 408. These additional
   woven layers are inserted such that the yarns of the inserted material are at an angle of
   orientation greater than 0 degrees and less than 90 degrees (i.e., on a bias) to the yarns of the
   fabric layers forming the stiffeners or sub-prefonns. Furthermore, additional through
30 thickness reinforcement of the preform assembly can be provided by, for example, T-forming,
   tufting, or stitching through the stiffeners (407-408) and the bias fabrics themselves, the
                                                    17
   10201655 _.doc

   flange layers (102-103), and/or to attach the stiffener layers to the preform layers (202-203)
   prior to molding and resin impregnation. The fabrics forming the stiffeners may alternatively
   be wound or placed onto the circumferential surface of the already molded preform base, and
   molded in a secondary operation, forming the final composite.
 5                 The widths of the base sections for each sub-preform and outer sub-preforms
   can be designed to position the integral stiffeners at their desired axial locations. One or more
   integral stiffeners can be formed, based on the number of outer sub-preforms used.
   Additionally, and similar to the previous embodiments, all of the sub-preforms can be
   assembled and molded in one operation. Alternately, the outermost sub-preforms can be
10 wrapped or placed onto the circumference of a molded base preform already on a mandrel and
   molded in a secondary operation forming the final composite.
                   An additional embodiment is shown in Fig. 5. In this non-limiting example,
   the base preform is a sub-preform that includes three wraps (202), (203), and (204) about an
   appropriately designed mandrel of a single-layer or multi-layer contour woven fabric with
15 flanges at each end. An additional wrap, called the intermediate stiffener wrap, forms a sub
   preform (501) which incorporates one or more intermediate stiffeners (502) and (503). The
   intermediate stiffener wrap is incorporated into a single fabric that provides the last wrap of
   the complete preform. Sub-preform 501 may be formed from a contour woven fabric, or may
   be formed from a fabric at least partially woven from stretch-broken fibers. This sub-preform
20 (501) is wound onto the base sub-preform wraps (202), (203), and (204)-which generally
   provide the majority of the material for the preform assembly-and thus completes the
   preform. The quantity, relative shapes, and sizes of such intermediate stiffeners are not
   intended to be limited by the exemplary schematic in Fig. 5.
                   Lengths of woven material (not shown) may be placed between the integral
25 flanges of the sub-preform 501 and the flanges of the barrel shaped body 101 as illustrated,
   for example, in Fig. 5. For example, one or more lengths of woven material may be placed
   between the integral flanges formed in the intermediate stiffener wrap preform 501 and flange
   layer 102 of the barrel shaped body 101. Similarly, one or more lengths of woven material
   may be placed between the integral flanges formed in the intermediate stiffener wrap preform
30 501 and flange layer 103 of the body 101. In some embodiments, one or more lengths of
                                                   18
   10201655 _.doc

   woven material may also be placed within the folds of one or more intermediate stiffeners
   (502) and (503).
                   These additional woven layers are inserted such that the yarns of the inserted
   material are at an angle of orientation greater than 0 degrees and less than 90 degrees (i.e., on
 5 a bias) to the yarns of the fabric layers forming the flanges or stiffeners. Furthermore,
   additional through-thickness reinforcement of the preform assembly can be provided by, for
   example, T-forming, tufting, or stitching through the intermediate stiffeners (502,503) and the
   woven fabrics themselves, the flange layers (102-103), and/or attach the stiffener layers to the
   preform layers (202-203) prior to molding and resin impregnation. The fabrics forming the
10 stiffeners may alternatively be wound or placed onto the circumferential surface of the already
   molded preform base, and molded in a secondary operation forming the final composite.
                   The number of wraps used for sub-preform can be varied, and are not intended
   to be limited by the exemplary schematic shown in Fig. 5. Additionally, the fabrics used do
   not have to be a uniform thickness, but may have thicker or thinner regions as desired. Also,
15 the body (101) of the preform between the flanges (102), (103) does not have to be perfectly
   cylindrical, but can be substantially barrel-shaped. Different types of fabrics may also be
   selected for the sub-preform and the intermediate stiffener wrap. Circumferential stiffeners
   like those described in the first embodiment may also be incorporated into this embodiment.
                   Another embodiment is illustrated in Fig. 6, which introduces a bifurcation
20 (603) of the outermost layer of the outermost wrap (602) of the multi-layer woven fabric. As
   with the prior art embodiment in Fig. 2, the preform is constructed with a number of
   continuous wraps of woven fabric (607) that is wrapped one or more times about an
   appropriately designed mandrel to construct the preform assembly (608). Fig. 6 shows four
   wraps of fabric starting with an innermost wrap (601), intermediate wraps (609) and (610),
25 and an outermost wrap (602). The outermost wrap (602) includes bifurcated portions (604)
   and (605) that are formed in the outer layer of the outermost wrap. The outer layer of the
   outermost wrap may be bifurcated in the warp direction. The bifurcated layer of said outer
   surface layer is then folded up to make a circumferential stiffener. The circumferential
   stiffener can act as an attachment point for bolting a piece of equipment to the molded
30 preform assembly when used as a fancase, as an example. The stiffener may encompass only
                                                    19
   10201655 _.doc

   an arc segment around the circumference (606), or the wrap may be formed long enough to
   allow a full circumferential ring round the fancase preform.
                    The bifurcation (603) may also be made in the weft direction, in a manner that
   allows for axial stiffeners or attachment points as well. In such a case, the bifurcation would
 5 be made in the weft, rather than the warp, direction of the single-layer or multi-layer fabric.
   As above, the outermost layer is folded up to make an axial stiffener.
                    The number of wraps used can be varied, and are not intended to be limited by
   the exemplary schematic shown in Fig. 6. Additionally, the fabrics used do not have to be a
   uniform thickness, but may have thicker or thinner regions as required. Also, the body (e.g.,
10 (101) in Fig. 2) of the preform created with the embodiment shown in Fig. 6 that is between
   the flanges (e.g., (102) and (103) in Fig. 2) does not have to be perfectly cylindrical, but can
   be substantially barrel-shaped. Nor does it have to be of uniform thickness. Circumferential
   stiffeners like those described in the first embodiment may also be incorporated into this
   embodiment.
15                  Lengths of woven material (not shown) may be placed between the bifurcated
   portions (604, 605) when the bifurcated portions are folded to form a stiffener as illustrated in
   Fig. 6. For example, one or more lengths of woven material may be placed between the
   bifurcated portions (604, 605) as illustrated in section A-A of Fig. 6. These additional woven
   layers are inserted such that the yarns of the inserted material are at an angle of orientation
20 greater than 0 degrees and less than 90 degrees (i.e., on a bias) to the yarns of the bifurcated
   fabric layers forming the stiffeners. Furthermore, additional through-thickness reinforcement
   of the preform assembly can be provided by, for example, T-forming, tufting, or stitching
   through the stiffeners (604, 605) and the woven fabrics themselves, prior to molding and resin
   impregnation. The assembly is then molded into the final composite.
25                  In all the embodiments, once the preform assembly is formed, resin is infused
   into the preform assembly (in one or two steps as indicated) by one of the methods known to
   those skilled in the art, and cured. The infusion of resin, known as a molding or densifying
   operation, introduces a matrix material to and into the woven preform, so that the resin matrix
   fills, or substantially fills, the interstitial areas between the components of the preform,
30 encasing the components and the preform. The resin matrix material may be any of a wide
   variety of materials, such as epoxy, phenolic, polyester, vinyl-ester, ceramic, carbon and/or
                                                         20
   10201655 _.doc

  other materials, which also exhibit desired physical, thermal, chemical and/or other properties.
  The materials chosen for use as the resin matrix may or may not be the same as that of the
  reinforcement preform and may or may not have comparable physical, chemical, thermal or
  other properties. Following the molding process, the composite is then removed from the
5 mandrel, and any finishing operations, such as trimming or polishing, etc., are performed.
                  Thus, by the present invention, its objects and advantages are realized, and
  although preferred embodiments have been disclosed and described in detail herein, its scope
  and objects should not be limited thereby; rather its scope should be determined by that of the
  appended claims.
                                                 21
  10201655 _.doc

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
   1.       A woven preform assembly comprising:
            a first sub-preform comprising one or more wraps of a continuous woven fabric about
 5 a centerline or an appropriately designed mandrel to form at least one substantially barrel
   shaped circumference around the centerline, wherein said wraps have a first integral flange
   disposed on a first edge of said woven fabric that forms a first edge circumference around said
   centerline and a second integral flange disposed on a second edge of said woven fabric that
   forms a second edge circumference around said centerline;
10          at least two outer sub-preforms, each of said outer sub-preforms comprising:
            one or more wraps of a continuous woven fabric about the centerline to form at least
   two substantially barrel-shaped circumferential surfaces around said centerline, wherein said
   wraps have a first outer sub-preform integral flange disposed on a first edge of said outer sub
   preform woven fabric that forms a first outer sub-preform edge circumference around said
15 centerline and a second outer sub-preform integral flange disposed on a second edge of said
   outer sub-preform woven fabric that forints a second edge circumference around said
   centerline;
            each said outer sub-preform substantially barrel-shaped circumference wraps around
   said first sub-preform substantially barrel-shaped circumference; and
20          adjacent outer sub-preform integral flanges are in contact with each other and
   comprise integral stiffeners.
   2.       The preform assembly of claim 1, further comprising:
                                                   22
   10201655 _.doc

            one or more circumferential stiffeners in contact with said outer sub-preform at said
   outer sub-preform substantially barrel-shaped circumference.
   3.       The preform assembly of claim 1, wherein each sub-preform woven fabric is made
 5 from materials selected from the group consisting of carbon, nylon, rayon, polyester, glass,
   ceramic, aramid, and polyethylene.
   4.       The preform assembly of claim 1, wherein said first sub-preform is assembled and
   molded before said outer sub-preforms are assembled to be in contact with said first sub
10 preform barrel-shaped circumference.
   5.       The preform assembly of claim 1, wherein said first sub-preform and second sub
   preform are co-molded.
15 6.       The preform assembly of claim 1, wherein at least some of said outer sub-preforms are
   affixed to said first sub-preform by T-forming, tufting, or stitching.
   7.       The preform assembly of claim 1, further comprising one or more lengths of woven
   material inserted at a bias between said wraps of continuous woven fabric.
20
   8.       The preform assembly of claim 1, further comprising lengths of woven material
   inserted at a bias between at least some of said adjacent outer sub-preform integral flanges.
                                                   23
   10201655 _.doc

   9.       The preform assembly of claim 1, wherein first outer sub-preform integral flange is
   arranged adjacent to first integral flange and second outer sub-prefonr    integral flange is
   arranged adjacent to second integral flange.
 5 10.      The preform assembly of claim 9, further comprising lengths of woven material
   inserted at a bias between at least one of said first outer sub-preform integral flange and said
   first integral flange and said second outer sub-preform integral flange and said second integral
   flange.
10 11.      The preform assembly of claim 1, wherein said fabric may be selected from the group
   consisting of single-layer fabric and multi-layer fabric.
   12.      A woven preform assembly comprising:
            a sub-preform comprising one or more wraps of a continuous woven fabric about a
15 centerline of an appropriately designed mandrel to form a substantially barrel-shaped
   circumference, wherein said wraps have a first integral flange disposed on a first edge of said
   woven fabric that forms a first edge circumference around said centerline and a second
   integral flange disposed on a second edge of said woven fabric that forms a second edge
   circumference around said centerline; and
20          an intermediate stiffener wrap comprised of one or more wraps of continuous woven
   fabric about the centerline that forms an intermediate stiffener wrap around the substantially
   barrel-shaped circumference around said centerline in contact with said sub-preform
   substantially barrel-shaped circumference, wherein said intermediate stiffener wrap has a first
                                                    24
   10201655 _.doc

   intermediate stiffener integral flange disposed on a first edge of said intermediate stiffener
   wrap woven fabric and a second intermediate stiffener integral flange disposed on a second
   edge of said intermediate stiffener woven fabric that forms a second edge circumference
   around said centerline, wherein said intermediate stiffener wrap incorporates one or more
 5 intermediate stiffeners disposed between said first intermediate stiffener integral flange and
   said second intermediate stiffener integral flange.
   13.      The preform assembly of claim 12, further comprising:
            one or more circumferential stiffeners abutting said intermediate stiffener wrap
10 substantially barrel-shaped circumference.
   14.      The preform assembly of claim 12, wherein said sub-preform woven fabric is made
   from materials selected from the group consisting of carbon, nylon, rayon, polyester, glass,
   ceramic, aramid, and polyethylene.
15
   15.      The preform assembly of claim 12, wherein said intennediate stiffener woven fabric is
   made from materials selected from the group consisting of carbon, nylon, rayon, polyester,
   glass, ceramic, aramid, and polyethylene.
20 16.      The preform assembly of claim 12, wherein said fabric may be selected from the
   group consisting of single-layer fabric and multi-layer fabric.
                                                   25
   10201655 _.doc

    17.     The preform assembly of claim 12, wherein said sub-preform and said intermediate
   stiffener wraps are co-molded.
   18.      The preform assembly of claim 12, wherein said outer stiffener wrap is affixed to said
 5 sub-preform by T-forming, tufting, or stitching.
   19.      The preform assembly of claim 12, further comprising one or more lengths of woven
   material inserted at a bias between said sub-preform and said intermediate wrap.
10 20.      The preform assembly of claim 12, wherein first intermediate stiffener integral flange
   is arranged adjacent to first integral flange and second intermediate stiffener integral flange is
   arranged adjacent to second integral flange.
   21.      The preform assembly of claim 20, further comprising lengths of woven material
15 inserted at a bias between at least one of said first integral flange and said first intermediate
   stiffener integral flange and said second integral flange and said second intermediate stiffener
   integral flange.
   22.      A woven preform assembly comprising:
20          one or more wraps of a continuous woven fabric about a centerline of an appropriately
   designed mandrel to form a barrel-shaped circumference, wherein said wraps have a first
   integral flange disposed on a first edge of said woven fabric that forms a first edge
                                                    26
   10201655 _.doc

   circumference around said centerline and a second integral flange disposed on a second edge
   of said woven fabric that forms a second edge circumference around said centerline;
            an outermost wrap of said woven fabric is bifurcated in the outermost layer of said
   woven fabric; and
 5           said bifurcated outermost layer is folded up to make a one or more stiffeners.
   23.      The preform assembly of claim 22, wherein said stiffeners are oriented axially with
   said centerline.
10 24.      The preform assembly of claim 22, wherein said stiffeners are oriented
   circumferentially about said centerline.
   25.      The preform assembly of claim 22, further comprising:
            one or more circumferential stiffeners that are in contact with said barrel-shaped
15 circumference.
   26.      The preform assembly of claim 22, wherein said one or more stiffeners are affixed to
   said one or more wraps of continuous woven fabric by T-forming, tufting, or stitching.
20 27.      The preform assembly of claim 22, further comprising one or more lengths of woven
   material inserted at a bias between said one or more wraps of continuous woven fabric.
                                                     27
   10201655 _.doc

   28.      The preform assembly of claim 22, further comprising lengths of woven material
   inserted at a bias between bifurcated portions of said outermost layer.
   29.      A method of manufacturing a woven preform comprising the steps of:
 5          wrapping a continuous woven fabric around a centerline one or more times to form a
   circumferential surface around said centerline;
            wrapping one or more circumferential stiffeners around said continuous woven fabric
   so that said circumferential stiffeners abut against said circumferential surface around said
   centerline.
10
   30.      The method of claim 29, further comprising the step of:
             stitching one or more said circumferential stiffeners to said continuous woven fabric.
   31.      The method of claim 29, further comprising the step of:
15          molding said continuous woven fabric after it is wrapped one or more times around a
   centerline to form said circumference around the centerline.
   32.      The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of:
            co-molding one or more said circumferential stiffeners with said continuous woven
20 fabric after it is wrapped one or more times around a centerline to form said circumference
   around the centerline.
   33.      The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of:
                                                   28
   10201655 _.doc

            molding said circumferential stiffeners onto said molded continuous woven fabric.
   34.      A method of manufacturing a woven preform comprising the steps of:
             wrapping a continuous woven fabric one or more times around a centerline to form a
 5 circumferential surface around said centerline; and
            wrapping one or more circumferential stiffeners around said circumferential surface so
   that said circumferential stiffeners abut and form an arc around said circumferential surface.
   35.      A method of manufacturing a woven preform comprising the steps of:
10          wrapping a continuous woven fabric one or more times around a centerline to form a
   first sub-preform circumferential surface around said centerline, wherein said first sub
   preform has a first integral flange disposed on a first edge of said woven fabric that forms a
   first edge circumference around said centerline and a second integral flange disposed on a
   second edge of said woven fabric that forms a second edge circumference around said
15 centerline;
            wrapping one or more additional sub-preforms around said first sub-preform, wherein
   said additional sub-preforms have a first outer sub-preform integral flange disposed on a first
   edge of said outer sub-preform woven fabric that forms a first edge circumference around said
   centerline and a second outer sub-preform integral flange disposed on a second edge of said
20 outer sub-preform woven fabric that forms a second edge circumference around said
   centerline; and
             forming integral stiffeners by aligning each adjacent outer sub-preform integral flange
   so that such adjacent outer sub-preform integral flanges are in contact with each other.
                                                     29
   10201655 _.doc

   36.      A method of manufacturing a woven preform comprising the steps of:
            wrapping a continuous woven fabric one or more times around a centerline to form a
   sub-preform circumferential surface around said centerline, wherein said sub-preform has a
 5 first integral flange disposed on a first edge of said woven fabric that forms a first edge
   circumference around said centerline and a second integral flange disposed on a second edge
   of said woven fabric that forms a second edge circumference around said centerline;
             forming intermediate stiffeners in an intermediate stiffener wrap; and
            wrapping said intermediate stiffener wrap around said sub-preform.
10
   37.      A method of manufacturing a woven preform comprising the steps of:
            wrapping a continuous woven fabric one or more times around a centerline to form a
   circumferential surface around said centerline;
            bifurcating an outermost layer of an outermost wrap; and
15           folding said bifurcated layer to make a circumferential blade stiffener.
   38.      The woven preform assembly according to claim 1, wherein said continuous woven
   fabric is a contour woven fabric.
20 39.      The woven preform assembly according to claim 12, wherein said continuous woven
   fabric is a contour woven fabric.
                                                    30
   10201655 _.doc

   40.      The woven preform assembly according to claim 22, wherein said continuous woven
   fabric is a contour woven fabric.
   41.      The method according to claim 29, wherein said continuous woven fabric is a contour
 5 woven fabric.
   42.      The method according to claim 34, wherein said continuous woven fabric is a contour
   woven fabric.
10 43.      The method according to claim 35, wherein said continuous woven fabric is a contour
   woven fabric.
   44.      The method according to claim 36, wherein said continuous woven fabric is a contour
   woven fabric.
15
   45.      The method according to claim 37, wherein said continuous woven fabric is a contour
   woven fabric.
                                                31
   10201655 _.doc

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
