                                          ABSTRACT
        A firefighting training system including a display device configured to display an
actual or simulated fire and a sensor configured to detect an actual, simulated or virtual
extinguishant that is directed at the display device. The system further includes a smoke or
steam generation system configured to provide an output and a controller operatively
coupled to the display device, the sensor and the generation system. The controller is
configured to control the display of the actual or simulated fire and the output based at least
in part upon an output of the sensor.

 o        o0
IN N    N0--
     to      -e0

                                              1
                      FIRE FIGHTING TRAINING SYSTEM WITH
                             STEAM/SMOKE GENERATION
[0001] This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
61/878,355, filed on September 16, 2013 and entitled FIRE FIGHTER TRAINING
SYSTEM WITH SIMULATED STEAM GENERATION, the entire contents of which are
hereby incorporated by reference.
[0002] This application is directed to a system and method for teaching users firefighting
skills and techniques.
                                       BACKGROUND
[0003] Fire fighter trainers and simulators are used to train fire fighters and other
individuals, including in some cases members of the general public and those without
specialized training, in proper firefighting techniques. Such trainers and simulators may
provide a realistic but simulated firefighting environment by utilizing simulated or actual
flames that can react to actual or simulated extinguishants. It may also be desired to
provide steam/smoke generation as part of the training to provide a more realistic
experience.
                                          SUMMARY
[0004] The present invention, in one embodiment, is a firefighting training system that
provides realistic but simulated firefighting training using simulated or actual flames along
with steam or smoke generation. More particularly, in one embodiment the invention is a
firefighting training system including a display device configured to display an actual or
simulated fire and a sensor configured to detect an actual, simulated or virtual
extinguishant that is directed at the display device. The system further includes a smoke or
steam generation system configured to provide an output and a controller operatively
coupled to the display device, the sensor and the generation system. The controller is
configured to control the display of the actual or simulated fire and the output based at least
in part upon an output of the sensor.
[0005] In another embodiment, the invention is a firefighting training system including a
steam or smoke generation system including a housing defining a reservoir configured to
receive steam or smoke therein. The housing includes an opening therethrough that is

                                              2
positioned and configured such that an extinguishant directed over the opening causes
steam or smoke to be pulled out of the reservoir via the opening.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006] Fig. 1 is a schematic view of one embodiment of the fire fighter training device of
the present invention;
[0007] Fig. 2 is a schematic view of another embodiment of the firefighting training device
of the present invention; and
[0008] Fig. 3 is a cross section taken along line 2-2 of Fig. 2.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0009] As shown in Fig. 1, in one embodiment a training system, generally designated 10,
includes a plurality of display, processing, sensing and/or control devices 12 (each termed a
"display device" 12 herein) operatively coupled to each other, although only a single
display device 12 may be used. In one case each display device 12 takes the form of a
LED or OLED display or panel that is analogous to, or generally the same as, a LED
television screen, although other technologies for the display devices 12 can be utilized,
such as CRT, digital light processing, plasma, etc., so long as the display devices 12 can be
made sufficiently fluid-tight (in appropriate circumstances) and are able to resist forces
applied during training exercises. The display devices 12 can include a light source,
display screen, and a controller 11 (such as a processor, microcomputer or the like)
integrated into a single unit (e.g. positioned within an external casing, with the light source
being behind the display screen, one of which is shown in Fig. 1), with these components
being positioned within or coupled to a single housing such that each display device 12 is
in one case relatively compact and manually carryable.
[0010] The display devices 12 can be arranged in an array, and are arranged in a 2x2 array
in the illustrated embodiment. However, the display devices 12 can take other forms and
be arranged in various other manners, as desired. In addition, the system 10 may utilize
only a single display device 12 in some cases. Moreover, while Fig. 1 illustrates the
display devices 12 mounted to a wall, the display devices 12 could instead be portable
and/or stand-alone devices.

                                              3
[0011] The system 10 may also include a prop or training device 14. The prop 14 can take
any of a wide variety of shapes or forms, and can take on the appearance of nearly an item
expected to be found in a house, office building, warehouse, factory, or other environments
in which firefighting is carried out. In the illustrated embodiment the prop 14 take the form
of a stove. The prop 14 may include or be coupled to a display device 12 which can be the
same as or analogous to the display devices 12 described above, and which can include its
own controller 11 and/or is operatively coupled to the controllers 11 of the other display
devices 12. The system 10 or prop 14 can also include flame generator 16 that includes or
is connected to a fuel source (such as natural gas, in one case) that is combustible to display
a real flame 19 for training purposes. In the illustrated embodiment the flame generator 16
is carried on the prop 14, but the flame generator 16 can be positioned as a stand-alone
device, or positioned at other locations in the training space.
[0012] The controller(s) 11 provide an output that can cause each display device 12 to
display an image 18 to which a user/trainee 20, such as a fire fighter, is trained or
encouraged to respond. For example, each display device 12 can be configured to display
an image of fire 18 (which can include displayed smoke and/or flame) or other hazardous
conditions. In one case, as shown in Fig. 1, the display devices 12 are networked together
via cables 17 or the like such that each display device 12 displays part of a composite
image 18 that is larger, in one case, than any one of the display devices 12. The flame
generator 16 is also operatively coupled to its own controller 11 and/or a controller 11
associated with the display devices 12 to control, for example, the number or spread of
flames 19, height or size of the flames 19, etc. by controlling the supply of fuel or other
variables.
[0013] The trainee 20 may have access to an extinguishant system 22 which can be used to
spray/project an actual and/or simulated extinguishant 24 which can be tangible or
intangible. For example, in one case the extinguishant system 22 includes a hose 26 which
sprays extinguishant 24 in the form of water that can be directed at the display devices 12
and/or props 14 and/or actual flames 19. In one particular embodiment, the extinguishant
system 22 sprays liquid water at pressures the same as or comparable to that provided by
fire hydrants, pump trucks or the like (at least about 50 psi in one case, or at least about 100
psi in another case, or at least about 125 psi in yet another case) using handlines to provide

                                               4
a realistic training experience. However, the hose 26 /extinguishant system 22 can also
spray various other substances including solids (such as chemical powder), liquids (such
water, foam, or combinations thereof) or gases (such as inert gases including C0 2 ) of
various forms, pressures and the like.
[0014] As noted above, in some cases the extinguishant system 22 may emit a material
that is not necessarily an actual fire extinguishant (or at least not a widely used fire
extinguishant, for example, polystyrene foam, rubber or synthetic rubber pellets, sawdust,
etc.), but may be easier to use in the training system 10 due to ease of storing, processing
and/or clean up, in the form of a simulated extinguishant. The extinguishant system 22
may also emit a directed signal that is not manually detectable by the user 20 (i.e. may not
have any noticeable mass), which can be visible or not visible by the user 20, such as
electromagnetic waves (including directed light waves, infrared waves, lasers, etc.), sonic
waves or signals or the like, as a virtual extinguishant. In all cases, however, for the
purposes of this document such items emitted by the extinguishant system 22 as described
above and below (including actual, simulated and virtual extinguishants, both tangible and
intangible) are included in the term "extinguishants."
[0015] The system 10 can include a sensor system 30 to sense the extinguishant 24
directed/sprayed by the trainee 20. The illustrated sensor system 30 includes utilizes a
plurality of sensors 32 positioned on the display device 12 or on the prop 14, although the
sensors 32 can be positioned adjacent to those components, or at other locations, to detect
the applied extinguishant 24 or other activities of the trainee. In one case the sensors 32
take the form of temperature sensors, such as a thermistors, that can react to differing
temperatures provided by conduction and/or convection of the extinguishant 24. Thus in
one case the extinguishant 24 may impart cooling to the sensor 32, thereby changing the
sensor's electrical resistance, producing a voltage or change in voltage across the sensor 32,
and/or producing a current or change in current through the sensor 32. In this case the
extinguishant 24 would typically be a fluid or a solid.
[0016] As further examples, the sensor 32 may include a bimetallic strip that exhibits a
change in internal stresses when heated or cooled, a thermocouple or thermopile, a
vibration sensor, a microphone, a capacitive sensor, a resistive sensor, a reflective sensor,
etc. However, the sensor(s) 32 can take any of a wide variety of other forms, including

                                              5
nearly any device having physical or detectable properties that change when an external
stimulus, such as a simulated, actual or virtual extinguishant, is applied to, directed at or
received by the sensor 32.
[0017] The extinguishant sensors 32 can be either active or passive. The extinguishant
sensors 32 can also take the form of or include a device which detects electromagnetic
signals, including at or near infrared wavelengths, such as a thermal camera or an infrared
thermometer, or take the form of motion detectors. The extinguishant sensor 32 can also
take the form of mechanical components such as pinwheels.
[0018] The output of each sensor 32 can be provided to the controller(s) 11 thereby sense
the presence of the extinguishant 24, the amount of extinguishant 24 being applied to the
sensor 32, the duration of applied extinguishant 24, the manner in which the extinguishant
24 is being applied, etc. Proper firefighting technique (i.e. where extinguishant 24 is aimed
at the proper locations for the proper duration and in the proper methods or techniques) can
cause the controller(s) 11 to reduce the size of the displayed 18 and/or actual 19 fire/flame,
or cause the fire/flame 18/19 to grow at a reduced rate. Conversely, relatively poor
firefighting technique (i.e. where extinguishant 24 is not aimed at the proper locations,
and/or for improper durations, and/or using improper methods or techniques) can cause the
controller(s) 11 to increase the size of the displayed 18 and/or actual 19 fire/flame, or cause
the fire/flame 18/19 to grow at an increased rate.
[0019] The controller(s) 11 can be configured to present a predetermined flame pattern to
the trainee, or provide natural flame growth using an algorithm. In one case, for example, a
user may be able to identify a particular location on the display device 12, such as via an
infrared remote control, and indicate that a fire should be initiated at the indicated location
to trigger the fire which can grow naturally based upon fire growth algorithms.
Alternately, or in addition, the controller(s) 11 may be able to be controlled by a human
operator/trainer to adjust flame conditions on-demand. The controller(s) 11 can also be
coupled to simulated sources of the heat, flame, gases, combustion sounds and/or
combustion smells, which can also be actuated and controlled in accordance with the
displayed 18 and/or actual 19 fire, and adjusted based upon the firefighting technique of the
trainee 20.

                                               6
[0020] The characteristics of the fire 18/19 displayed by the display devices 30 and the
flame generator 16 can be determined by the various factors of the simulated fire as
inputted to/stored in the controller(s) 11, including the type of fuel, how much fuel is
burning, percentage of fuel left as a viable fuel source, ambient air temperature, fire
temperature, ambient smoke level, and the amount, location and duration of extinguishant
applied. Thus, rather than generating a flame 18/19 based upon stored data related to a
previously-recorded fire, the system 10 may instead utilize an algorithm that utilizes
various inputs that determine fire conditions, and process those inputs to result in an output
of adjusted fire conditions in real time, which can also include smoke or steam output as
described below. This system results in a less predictable and more realistic fire
simulation, and better training for the trainee 20.
[0021] The system 10 can include one or more smoke and/or steam generators 34 that are
operatively coupled to the controller(s) 11 and provide an output 36. The output 36 can be
in the form of smoke (including traditional smoke as a combustion by-product), steam,
visible gases, or visible liquid or solid particulates suspended in air or other gases. During
a normal burning/combustion process, the system may generate output 36 in the form of, or
mimicking, smoke/ambient smoke in a manner as calculated by the controllers(s) 11. In
the absence of extinguishant 24 being applied, the smoke output 36 may change slowly
over time, but may be relatively constant and change only as fire conditions change (i.e. as
a fire naturally grows or burns out).
[0022] In contrast, when extinguishant 24 is applied, the generators 34 can be controlled
provide an output in the form of, or mimicking, steam. The controller(s) 11/generators 34
respond to qualities of the simulated fire, and the manner in which the extinguishant 24 is
applied to provide an output 36 that mimics steam in real world firefighting. The
controller(s) 11 thereby provide an output to cause the generators to generate steam 36 in
the desired quantities, at the desired density, in the desired amounts and at the desired times
in real time to correspond to fire conditions and applied extinguishant 24. The quality and
quantity of the steam 36 can be determined by various factors as inputted to/stored in the
controller(s) 11, including the type of fuel, how much fuel is burning, type of fire, fire size,
percentage of fuel left as a viable fuel source, ambient air temperature, fire temperature,

                                              7
ambient smoke level, and the amount (cumulative and/or relatively instantaneous), location
and/or duration of applied extinguishant 24.
[0023] The system 10 thereby provides computer controller steam generation which
provides realistic responses. For example, when extinguishant 24 is applied to simulated
fire known to be a simulated fully involved class A fire, the controller(s) 11 can cause the
associated generators 34 to provide an output 36 in the form of relatively large quantities of
dense steam, mimicking real world conditions. On the other hand, if the
simulated/displayed fire 18/19 represents a class B fire, and the extinguishant 24 is an
actual or simulated foam, the system 10 will call for a relatively small amount of output 36
in the form of mimicked steam 36. In this manner the system 10 can utilize a continuous
stream of data, which relates to the state of the fire 18/19 and applied extinguishant 24, to
constantly vary the generation of steam/smoke output 36 to match the status of the fire.
[0024] In some cases, the generators 34 may be controlled to provide an output 36 at a
predetermined density and/or temperature for optimal dispersion in the ambient
environment. The density of the steam refers to its thickness, and is dependent on how the
output 36 is mixed in the atomization process.
[0025] In one case, as outlined above, the system 10 can cause the generator 34 to provide
an output 36 to mimic ambient smoke, which is the level of smoke when no extinguishant
24 is being applied. In contrast, when an extinguishant 24 is applied, output 36 of the
generator 34 can increase significantly, creating a steam effect, due to simulated
vaporization of the extinguishant 24 and/or smouldering of the fire. In one case ambient
smoke density is determined by the following principle:
        Ambient Smoke/Steam Density = MaterialFactor (Percentor Amount Burning +
        Fire Temperature)
In this case the Material Factor is a coefficient that depends upon type of fire (e.g. class A,
B, C in one case) and/or the nature of the fuel (e.g. a couch vs. a wall vs. an electrical
appliance, etc.). "Percent or Amount Burning" refers to the percentage of the fuel that is
currently burning, or an amount of the fuel that is burning, or some combination thereof.
Various other equations which take these, and/or other, factors into consideration can be
utilized.

                                              8
[0026] In one case the steam density during extinguishant application is determined by the
following principle:
         Smoke/Steam Density DuringExtinguishantApplication = (Extinguishant
         Type/Ambient Temperature)x (MaterialWater Retention Factor + Fire Size)
In this case Extinguishant Type is a factor that relates to the steam generation capacity of
the extinguishant, and the smoke/steam density value may be a relatively linear variable
such that more smoke/steam is created as the value for the Extinguishant Type increases.
For example, for water may have a higher Extinguisher Type number compared to, for
example, dry chemicals. The Material Water Retention Factor relates to the ability of the
fuel to store/retain water. In general, materials with a higher Material Water Retention
Factor, such as wood, can correlate to a higher smoke/steam density compared to materials
with a lower Material Water Retention Factor, such as coal. The Fire Size can relate to the
volume and/or surface area of the fire, defined by in one case its flame, coals and/or fuel.
Various other equations which take these, and/or other, factors into consideration can be
utilized.
[0027] The output of the equations above can be utilized to control an output of a
generator device 34. In example, the generator device 34 may burn or vaporize a liquid via
its heater core to produce its output, and the output of the equations above can determine
how much fluid is fed to the heater core, which determines output density.
[0028] A Duty Cycle value can be a second input provided to the generator device 34 to
control how much the generator device 34 is run over a given time period (e.g. in one case
a number between 1-100, with a value of 100 representing a case wherein the device 34 is
run 100% of the time for a given time cycle). In one case the Duty Cycle can be
determined by the following principle:
         Duty Cycle z f(Fire Temperature/ExtinguishantVolume)
where the integral value can be taken over the entire time of the simulation and/or lifetime
of the fire. As can be seen, lower temperatures of the fire can reduce the duty cycle, and
ultimately output 36. Conversely high extinguishant volume can reduce the Duty Cycle

                                              9
and output 36. Thus, the system 10 is able to determine that a relatively small amount of
extinguishant 24 applied to a fire of a fixed size can result in a relatively high level of
output 36 in the form of simulated steam. In contrast, a relatively large amount of
extinguishant 24 can be known/projected to quickly smother the fire, resulting in a
relatively low amount of simulated steam 36. Various other equations which take these,
and/or other, factors into consideration can be utilized to control the Duty Cycle.
[0029] The generators 34 can take any of a wide variety of forms and shapes, but in one
embodiment are a Smoke Generator 4000 or Smoke Generator 6000 sold by Bullex, a
division of Lion Apparel, Inc., located in Albany New York. The generators 34 can create
smoke/steam output 36 by any of a variety of well-known manners, including vaporizing
water and glycol-based and/or glycerin-based fluids, or through the atomization of mineral
oil, although the generators 34 are not limited to such embodiments. The generators 34
may utilized precision controlled electro thermal atomization, which can provide precise,
metered, and quick-response smoke outputs.
[0030] Each component in the system 10 (i.e. the array of displays 30, or an individual
display 30, or a prop 14, or other components) can have its own associated flame display
18/19, sensor system 30, controller 11 and/or generator 34. In this manner, the training
area can be divided into multiple zones. Data for the fire 18/19 for each sensor system 30
and/or flame display 18/19 in a zone can, if desired, be combined to create composite
values that control the output for each generator 34 for each zone, which can control the
smoke/steam generation. Alternately, if desired, each generator 34 in each zone can be
individually controlled.
[0031] Each generator 34 can include various ports or outputs to directly provide steam 36
in the desired amounts. In an alternative embodiment, as shown in Figs. 2 and 3, the
generator 34' can include a housing 40 defining a reservoir 42, which takes the form of a
generally closed volume into which output 36 is provided from a steam/smoke source 44.
The housing 40 may include one or more outlet openings 46 and one or more inlet
openings 48 formed therethrough. In one embodiment, each outlet opening 46 is
positioned at or adjacent to a location where it may be desired for a trainee/user 20 to direct
extinguishant 24. For example, the housing 40 can be defined by the space under a prop
bed, with fire panels on a top surface, or upper-most surface, that define the outlet openings

                                              10
46, wherein the bed is fully or partially skirted to seal the reservoir 42. The embodiment
shown in Figs. 2 and 3, however, illustrate the housing 40 as a separate structure positioned
adjacent to a bed prop 14.
[0032] The reservoir 42 may remain generally filled with smoke or steam output 36 from
the steam/smoke source 44. When the trainee 20 directs an actual or simulated
extinguishant 24 (that is physically detectable or tangible - e.g. has recognizable mass)
over the reservoir 42, the extinguishant 24 may pass over the outlet openings 46 in the
direction of arrow A of Fig. 3. The flow of extinguishant 24 over the outlet openings 46
creates a venturi effect, pulling smoke/steam 36 out of the outlet openings 46 and into the
training space. Ambient air may be pulled into the reservoir 42 via the inlet openings 48,
as shown by arrow B, to provide pressure balance in the reservoir 42.
[0033] The inlet opening(s) 48 can be spaced apart from the outlet openings 46, and are
positioned on the front side of the housing 40 in the illustrated embodiment. Once the
smoke/steam 36 exits the reservoir 42, the smoke/steam 36 is drawn further away from the
reservoir 42 and towards the source of the extinguishant 24. This effect is due to the
replacement of air that has been displaced by the extinguishant 24 as the extinguishant 24
rapidly moves through the air, causing available replacement air to be drawn towards the
extinguishant operator 20, as shown by arrow C. This effect is similar to smoke behavior
during hydraulic venting of a smoke filled building, and produces a realistic smoke and
steam layering effect.
[0034] In this embodiment, then, output 26 is introduced into the training space as
simulated steam or smoke by a venturi effect, and does not require any sensors, controls,
fans or air movement devices, etc. but instead is a passive system relying upon natural
forces, while still providing a realistic steam effect. The generator 34' may thus lack any
fans or air movement devices. The output 36 in the reservoir 42 may combined with air
prior to leaving the reservoir 42, which can provide a more realistic looking smoke/steam
36 as compared to output 36 directly ejected from the generator 34. In addition, the
hydrodynamic instability providing by mixing and the venturi effect provides a more
realistic effect. The shape, size and locations of the openings 46, 48 and reservoir 42 can
be designed to control the release of the steam/air mixture to tailor the generator 34' to the
desired conditions. The generator 34' can be used in conjunction with a display device 12

                                             11
as shown in Fig. 2, or a prop 14 in the form of a bed as shown in Fig. 2, or a flame
generator 16, etc.
[0035] The generator 34' also realistically mimics thermal layering effects in firefighting
settings. In particular, under actual burning conditions, a relatively stable thermal layering
situation is typically set up in a room. When an extinguishant 24, such as water, impinges
upon the fire, the water is turned into steam and expands rapidly and disrupts the thermal
layering, which can cause unpredictable dispersal of heat, smoke and steam, and can cause
dispersal of heat, smoke and/or steam at the firefighter. The generator 34' thus realistically
mimics the disruption of thermal layering faced by firefighters in real firefighting
conditions.
[0036] The current system allows various inputs relating to fire conditions and applied
extinguishants to be received and processed to provide real-time, responsive and realistic
steam generation. The system also contemplates a passive steam generation system in
some cases to produce an extremely realistic smoke and steam effect. The system thereby
provides elegant, scalable solutions for generating smoke and steam effects.
[0037] Having described the invention in detail and by reference to the various
embodiments, it should be understood that modifications and variations thereof are possible
without departing from the scope of the claims of the present application.
[0038] This application is a divisional application from Australian Application 2014318396.
The full disclosure of AU2014318396 is incorporated herein by reference.

What is claimed is:
         1. A firefighting training system including:
                 a smoke or steam generation system including a housing defining a reservoir
configured to receive smoke or steam therein, said housing including an opening that is
positioned and configured such that an extinguishant directed over said opening causes said
smoke or steam to be pulled out of said reservoir via said opening.
        2. The system of claim 1 wherein said generation system includes a smoke or
steam source in fluid communication with said reservoir and configured to fill said
reservoir with said smoke or steam.
        3. The system of claim 2 wherein the smoke or steam source is spaced away from
but in fluid communication with the reservoir to generate the smoke or steam and provide
the generated smoke or steam to the reservoir.
        4. The system of claim 2 further comprising a conduit fluidly connecting said
housing and said smoke or steam source.
        5. The system of claim 2 wherein the smoke or steam source is configured to
generate at least one of steam, simulated steam, smoke or simulated smoke.
        6. The system of claim 1 wherein said opening is positioned along an upper surface
of said housing.
        7. The system of claim 6 wherein the housing includes an air inlet spaced away
from said upper surface and configured to allow ambient air to enter said reservoir.
        8. The system of claim 1 wherein said reservoir includes a plurality of spaced-apart
openings that are each positioned and configured such that said extinguishant directed over
said openings causes smoke or steam to be pulled out of said reservoir via said openings.
                                               12

        9. The system of claim 1 wherein said housing is configured such that said
extinguishant directed over said opening causes smoke or steam to be pulled out of said
reservoir via said opening toward a source of said extinguishant.
        10. The system of claim 1 wherein the system lacks any fan or air movement
device.
        11. The system of claim 1 further comprising a display device configured to
display an actual or simulated fire, wherein said smoke or steam generation system is
positioned adjacent to said display device such that a user is cued to direct said
extinguishant at said display device.
        12. The system of claim 1 further comprising said extinguishant directed over said
opening and causing said smoke or steam to be pulled out of said reservoir via said
opening.
        13 A method for firefighting training including:
                accessing a smoke or steam generation system including a housing defining
a reservoir with smoke or steam received therein, said housing including an opening; and
                directing an extinguishant adjacent to said opening, thereby causing said
smoke or steam to be pulled out of said reservoir through said opening.
        14. The method of claim 13 wherein the directing step includes directing said
extinguishant over said opening, thereby causing smoke or steam to be pulled out of said
reservoir via said opening and toward a source of said extinguishant.
        15. The method of claim 13 wherein the smoke or steam generation system further
includes a smoke or steam source spaced away from but in fluid communication with the
reservoir to generate the smoke or steam and provide the generated smoke or steam to the
reservoir.
        16. The method of claim 15 wherein the smoke or steam source is generally fluidly
isolated from but in communication with the reservoir to generate the smoke or steam and
provide the generated smoke or steam to the housing.
                                              13

        17. The method of claim 13 wherein said opening is positioned along an upper
surface of said housing.
                                           14

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
