                                           ABSTRACT
  The present invention discloses a device and system for use in a taxi. In one aspect the device
  includes a processing system including a memory having stored therein a plurality of
5 computer applications, wherein the processing system is configured to:
          execute a meter application during a passenger trip to determine a fare due; and
          execute a payment application to facilitate electronic payment of the fare due.

                                                  -1
                               DEVICE AND SYSTEM FOR A TAXI
   Related Applications
   This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, the entire
 5 content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   Technical Field
   The present invention relates to a device and system for a taxi.
10 Background
   There are a number of components of a payment system in a taxi. For example, the payment
   system includes a payment engine, and payment device (commonly referred to as a payment
   PIN pad) and a meter device. It has been found that there is a lack of integration between these
   components of the payment system for taxis which makes the task of installing and operating
15 the device difficult. Additionally, the current payment technology in a taxi is limited in the
   taxi trip and fare information that can be provided to customers, networks and operators.
   Furthermore, non-cash payment of fares is difficult utilising the current payment technology.
   A number of manual processes are required from the passenger and the taxi driver in order for
   the transaction to be successfully completed. Moreover, it is difficult for audits of payments
20 for taxi fares to be conducted for passengers, operators and networks.
   The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from the
   prior publication), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
   acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or
25 information derived from the prior publication) or known matter forms part of the common
   general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
   Summary

                                                   -2
   This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are
   further described below in the Preferred Embodiments.          This summary is not intended to
   identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be
   used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.
 5
   In a first aspect there is provided a device for use in a taxi, wherein the device includes a
   processing system including a memory having stored therein a plurality of computer
   applications, wherein the processing system is configured to:
           execute a meter application during a passenger trip to determine a fare due; and
10         execute a payment application to facilitate electronic payment of the fare due.
   In certain embodiments, the device includes a touch screen display to display one or more
   interfaces of the plurality of computer applications and to receive input for operating the
   plurality of computer applications.
15
   In certain embodiments, the device includes or is in communication with one or more sensors,
   wherein operational data indicative of sensed signals are stored in the memory.
   In certain embodiments, the one or more sensors include an accelerometer, wherein the
20 operational data is indicative of a proper acceleration of the device in the taxi.
   In certain embodiments, the operational data is indicative of the proper acceleration of the
   device which is greater than a proper acceleration threshold.
25 In certain embodiments, the one or more sensors include one or more passenger detection
   sensors for detecting a passenger entering or exiting the taxi.
   In certain embodiments, the one or more passenger detection sensors include one or more door
   latch sensors.

                                                  -3
   In certain embodiments, the one or more passenger detection sensors include one or more
   pressure sensors to sense a passenger sitting in a passenger seat in the taxi.
 5 In certain embodiments, the device includes a NFC reader for communicating with a NFC
   enabled device.
   In certain embodiments, the NFC reader communicates with a payment instrument including a
   NFC chip, wherein the payment application facilitates payment of the far due based upon the
10 data sensed from the payment instrument.
   In certain embodiments, the device includes an optical sensor for scanning indicia indicative
   of a payment request, wherein the payment application uses the payment request to facilitate
   electronic payment of the fare due.
15
   In certain embodiments, the indicia scanned by the optical sensor is:
           printed media; or
           an electronically displayed graphic.
20 In certain embodiments, the device includes a GPS unit for recording time-stamped GPS
   coordinates of the taxi during the trip.
   In certain embodiments, the memory has stored therein toll data indicative of associated entry
   and exit areas for tolled areas, wherein the processing system automatically detects using the
25 time-stamped GPS coordinates whether the taxi has passed through associated entry and exit
   areas of a tolled area, wherein in response to the detection, the meter application modifies the
   fare due to include a toll amount associated with the respective tolled area.
   In certain embodiments, the processing system determines the duration between the taxi

                                                    -4
   passing through the detected entry and exit areas against one or more temporal thresholds,
   wherein in the event that the duration satisfies the one or more temporal thresholds, the meter
   application modifies the fare due according to the associated toll amount.
 5 In certain embodiments, the temporal threshold is a temporal range, wherein in response to the
   processing system determining that the duration is within the temporal range, the fare due is
   modified with the toll amount accordingly by the meter application.
   In certain embodiments, the device has stored in the memory configuration data.
10
   In certain embodiments, the device is configured by a portable configuration storage device
   which connects to an interface of the device.
   In certain embodiments, the device includes a communication device for enabling wireless
15 communication with one or more remote devices.
   In certain embodiments, the device establishes a data communication connection with a
   mobile communication device associated with the passenger which is used for facilitating
   payment of the fare due, wherein the device dynamically sets a device name indicative of one
20 or more details of the trip in order for the passenger to identify the device for establishing the
   data communication connection.
   In certain embodiments, the one or more details of the trip which form part of the device name
   are indicative of:
25         the fare; and
           a location at the beginning of the trip.
   In certain embodiments, after the data communication connection is established, the device
   receives an authorisation data object from the mobile communication device authorising

                                                   -5
   payment of the fare due, wherein the authorisation data object is associated with an account
   associated with passenger and maintained by the server processing system, wherein the device
   transfers the authorisation data object to the server processing system for the passenger's
   account to be debited according to the fare due.
 5
   In certain embodiments, the authorisation data object is indicative of an expiration deadline,
   wherein the device performs a validation of the authorisation data object based on the
   expiration deadline to determine if the authorisation data object has expired, and in the event
   of the authorisation data object has expired, transferring data to the mobile communication
10 device indicating that the authorisation data object has expired.
   In a second aspect there is provided a system including:
           the device according to the first aspect; and
           a server processing system in data communication with the device.
15
   In certain embodiments, the server processing system has access to a server data store having
   stored therein trip data and payment data recorded by the device, wherein the server
   processing system is configured to:
           receive a request for an electronic receipt relating to a trip from a requesting device;
20 and
           transfer to the requesting device an electronic receipt indicative of the trip data and
   payment data associated with the trip, wherein the trip data and payment data are retrieved
   from the server data store.
25 In certain embodiments, the electronic receipt is indicative of the route of the trip.
   In certain embodiments, the route of the trip is indicated by a map.
   In certain embodiments, the server processing system hosts a reporting portal for reporting at

                                                    -6
   least some of the data recorded by the device of the taxi and stored in the server data store,
   wherein the server processing system is configured to:
           receive, from a requesting device, a request to report at least some of the data recorded
   by the device associated with the respective taxi;
 5         generate a report based upon data stored in the server data store; and
           transfer the report to the requesting device.
   In certain embodiments, the system includes a mobile communication device application
   executed upon a mobile communication device associated with the passenger, wherein the
10 passenger interacts with the mobile communication device application to facilitate payment of
   the fare due, wherein the mobile communication device, under control of the mobile
   communication device application, communicates with at least one of the device and the
   server processing system to facilitate payment of the fare.
15 In certain embodiments, the device establishes a data communication connection with the
   mobile communication device in order for payment to be authorised by the passenger using
   the mobile communication device, wherein the device dynamically sets a device name
   indicative of one or more details of the trip in order for the passenger to identify the device for
   establishing the data communication connection.
20
   In certain embodiments, the one or more details of the trip which form part of the device name
   are indicative of:
           the fare; and
           a location at the beginning of the trip.
25
   In certain embodiments, after the data communication connection is established, the device
   receives an authorisation data object from the mobile communication device authorising
   payment of the fare due, wherein the authorisation data object is associated with an account
   associated with passenger and maintained by the server processing system, wherein the device

                                                   -7
   transfers the authorisation data object to the server processing system for the passenger's
   account to be debited according to the fare due.
   In certain embodiments, the authorisation data object is indicative of an expiration deadline,
 5 wherein the device performs a validation of the authorisation data object based on the
   expiration deadline to determine if the authorisation data object has expired, and in the event
   of the authorisation data object has expired, transferring data to the mobile communication
   device indicating that the authorisation data object has expired.
10 Other aspects and embodiments will be appreciated throughout the detailed description of the
   preferred embodiments.
   Brief Description of the Figures
   Example embodiments should become apparent from the following description, which is
15 given by way of example only, of at least one preferred but non-limiting embodiment,
   described in connection with the accompanying figures.
   Figure 1 illustrates a functional block diagram of an example processing system that can be
   utilised to embody or give effect to a particular embodiment;
20
   Figure 2 illustrates an example network infrastructure that can be utilised to embody or give
   effect to a particular embodiment;
   Figure 3 illustrates an example device and system for use in a taxi; and
25
   Figure 4 illustrates an example system for use with the device of Figure 3.
   Detailed Description of Embodiments

                                                  -8
   The following modes, given by way of example only, are described in order to provide a more
   precise understanding of the subject matter of a preferred embodiment or embodiments.
   In the figures, incorporated to illustrate features of an example embodiment, like reference
 5 numerals are used to identify like parts throughout the figures.
   A particular embodiment of the present invention can be realised using a processing system,
   an example of which is shown in Figure 1. In particular, the processing system 100 generally
   includes at least one processor 102, or processing unit or plurality of processors, memory 104,
10 at least one input device 106 and at least one output device 108, coupled together via a bus or
   group of buses 110. In certain embodiments, input device 106 and output device 108 could be
   the same device. An interface 112 can also be provided for coupling the processing system
    100 to one or more peripheral devices, for example interface 112 could be a PCI card or PC
   card. At least one storage device 114 which houses at least one database 116 can also be
15 provided. The memory 104 can be any form of memory device, for example, volatile or non
   volatile memory, solid state storage devices, magnetic devices, etc. The processor 102 could
   include more than one distinct processing device, for example to handle different functions
   within the processing system 100.
20 Input device 106 receives input data 118 and can include, for example, a keyboard, a pointer
   device such as a pen-like device or a mouse, audio receiving device for voice controlled
   activation such as a microphone, data receiver or antenna such as a modem or wireless data
   adaptor, data acquisition card, etc. Input data 118 could come from different sources, for
   example keyboard instructions in conjunction with data received via a network. Output device
25  108 produces or generates output data 120 and can include, for example, a display device or
   monitor in which case output data 120 is visual, a printer in which case output data 120 is
   printed, a port for example a USB port, a peripheral component adaptor, a data transmitter or
   antenna such as a modem or wireless network adaptor, etc. Output data 120 could be distinct
   and derived from different output devices, for example a visual display on a monitor in

                                                 -9
   conjunction with data transmitted to a network. A user could view data output, or an
   interpretation of the data output, on, for example, a monitor or using a printer. The storage
   device 114 can be any form of data or information storage means, for example, volatile or
   non-volatile memory, solid state storage devices, magnetic devices, etc.
 5
   In use, the processing system 100 is adapted to allow data or information to be stored in and/or
   retrieved from, via wired or wireless communication means, the at least one database 116.
   The interface 112 may allow wired and/or wireless communication between the processing
   unit 102 and peripheral components that may serve a specialised purpose. The processor 102
10 receives instructions as input data 118 via input device 106 and can display processed results
   or other output to a user by utilising output device 108.     More than one input device 106
   and/or output device 108 can be provided. It should be appreciated that the processing system
    100 may be any form of terminal, server, specialised hardware, or the like.
15 The processing system 100 may be a part of a networked communications system 200, as
   shown in Fig. 2.     Processing system 100 could connect to network 202, for example the
   Internet or a WAN. Input data 118 and output data 120 could be communicated to other
   devices via network 202. Other terminals, for example, thin client 204, further processing
   systems 206 and 208, notebook computer 210, mainframe computer 212, PDA 214, pen-based
20 computer 216, server 218, etc., can be connected to network 202. A large variety of other
   types of terminals or configurations could be utilised. The transfer of information and/or data
   over network 202 can be achieved using wired communications means 220 or wireless
   communications means 222. Server 218 can facilitate the transfer of data between network
   202 and one or more databases 224. Server 218 and one or more databases 224 provide an
25 example of an information source.
   Other networks may communicate with network 202. For example, telecommunications
   network 230 could facilitate the transfer of data between network 202 and mobile or cellular
   telephone 232 or a PDA-type device 234, by utilising wireless communication means 236 and

                                                 -10
   receiving/transmitting station 238. Satellite communications network 240 could communicate
   with satellite signal receiver 242 which receives data signals from satellite 244 which in turn is
   in remote communication with satellite signal transmitter 246. Terminals, for example further
   processing system 248, notebook computer 250 or satellite telephone 252, can thereby
 5 communicate with network 202. A local network 260, which for example may be a private
   network, LAN, etc., may also be connected to network 202. For example, network 202 could
   be connected with ethernet 262 which connects terminals 264, server 266 which controls the
   transfer of data to and/or from database 268, and printer 270. Various other types of networks
   could be utilised.
10
   The processing system 100 is adapted to communicate with other terminals, for example
   further processing systems 206, 208, by sending and receiving data, 118, 120, to and from the
   network 202, thereby facilitating possible communication with other components of the
   networked communications system 200.
15
   Thus, for example, the networks 202, 230, 240 may form part of, or be connected to, the
   Internet, in which case, the terminals 206, 212, 218, for example, may be web servers, Internet
   terminals or the like. The networks 202, 230, 240, 260 may be or form part of other
   communication networks, such as LAN, WAN, ethernet, token ring, FDDI ring, star, etc.,
20 networks, or mobile telephone networks, such as GSM, CDMA or 3G, etc., networks, and may
   be wholly or partially wired, including for example optical fibre, or wireless networks,
   depending on a particular implementation.
   Referring to Figure 3 there is shown a system 300 including a device 301. The device 301 is
25 configured for installation in the taxi. The device 301 includes a processing system which is
   substantially based upon processing system 100 discussed in relation to Figure 1.
   Referring more specifically to Figure 3, the device 301 includes a central processor 302
   coupled to a memory 304 via a bus 390. The central processor 302 also includes a number of

                                                  - 11
   peripheral devices which are in data communication with to the central processor 302 via the
   bus 399.
   In particular, the peripheral devices that are in communication with the processor 302 include
 5 an input control unit 318, one or more communication devices 316 which can be coupled to a
   SIM (Subscriber Identification Module) card 314, an accelerometer 324, an optical sensor 326,
   a touch screen display 328, an NFC (Near Field Communication) reader 330, a secure crypto
   processor 334, a clock 336, a GPS unit 337, and an interface 338. These peripheral devices of
   the device are integrated within a housing of the device and are thus non-removable peripheral
10 devices.
   The system 300 also includes a number of peripheral devices which are located external to the
   housing of the device 301. In particular, the system 300 includes a GPS (Global Positioning
   System) antenna 344 coupled to the GPS unit 337, one or more passenger detection sensors
15 346, a printer 348, a PIN pad 350, an encoder 352 for measuring the rotation of one or more of
   the wheels of the taxi, and a video camera 332. It will be appreciated that some of these
   devices that are located externally of the housing may communicate wirelessly with the
   processor 302 via the communication device 320 or via a wired communication medium.
20 A calibration device 342 can be releasably coupled to the device 301 via the interface 338 in
   order to calibrate the device for the taxi. Additionally, an additional PIN pad device 340 can
   be releasably coupled to the device 301 via the USB interface. Optionally, a storage device
   339 can be releasably coupled to the device 301.
25 The memory 304 of the device 301 includes an application store 308 having stored therein a
   number of executable applications which can be executed by the processor 301 of the device.
   In particular, the application store 308 includes a configuration application 309, payment
   application 310, a meter application 312, a reporting application 314, and a news application
   316 and an operating system 317. The memory also includes a data store 306 which stores

                                                 -12
   therein various data for the device 301. In particular, the data store includes fare data 354, toll
   data 356, payment data 358, operational data 360, driver data 362, passenger detection data
   364, trip data 366, key data 368, and configuration data 370.
 5 The system 301 can be part of a networked system such as that depicted in Figure 2. In
   particular, referring to Figure 4 there is shown a computer network system 400 including the
   system 300 and device 301. The system 300 is in data communication with a server processing
   system 410. The communication between the system 300 and the server processing system
   410 is generally performed wirelessly wherein the wireless communication device 320 is
10 utilised to enable the wireless communication.
   The system 300 is also in communication with a payment processing system 470 to process
   financial payment data for completing the payment transaction. Generally, the system 300
   wirelessly communicates with the payment processing system 470 using the wireless
15 communication device 320.
   The system 300 can also be in communication with a mobile communication device 450. In
   one particular form, the mobile communication device 460 executes a computer application
   460 in order to communicate with the system 300. Generally, communication between the
20 system 300 and the mobile communication device 460 is performed wirelessly using he
   wireless communication device(s). In particular, the wireless communication device 320 may
   include a wireless router which establishes a wireless hotspot using Wi-Fi within the taxi,
   wherein the mobile communication device 450 can communicate with the system 300 using
   the wireless hotspot. Additionally or alternatively, other locally established wireless
25 communication mediums may be used by the wireless communication device 320 to enable
   communication with the system 300 such as Bluetooth or the like. The mobile communication
   device 450 can also be in data communication with the server processing system 410 via the
   computer application 460.

                                                 - 13
   The server processing system 410 includes a data processing system 420 for collecting,
   transferring and processing data received from the system 300 as well as other devices of the
   network 400, an application server 430 to enable communication with the computer
   application 460 executed by the mobile communication device, and a web server 440. The
 5 web server 440 enables communication between the server processing system 410 and one or
   more computer terminals 480 such as a processing system 100, wherein the computer
   terminals 480 execute a web-browser application 490 to display information to a user of the
   computer terminal and to enable communication with the server processing system 410. It will
   be appreciated that each terminal device 480 is a device that can access a web-page via a wide
10 area network such as the Internet.
   The device 301 and system 300 are configured to receive electrical power from the battery of
   the taxi.
15 In use, once the system 300 is operational by receiving electrical power from the taxi, the
   device 301 performs a boot-up process wherein the operating system 317 boots up. Once the
   boot-up process has been completed, the processor 302 displays a user interface of the
   operating system 317 via the touch screen display 328. The taxi driver may be presented with
   a login interface wherein the taxi driver enters identification data, such as a username and
20 password, to identify the taxi driver. Alternatively, the taxi driver may have associated
   therewith a NFC enabled device such as a smart card enabled device which can be located by
   the driver within a reading proximity of the device 301 in order to obtain an identity of the taxi
   driver. The operating system 317 may authenticate the taxi driver based on local driver data
   362 stored in the data store 306 and/or transfer an authentication request to the server
25 processing system 410 for authenticating the taxi driver, wherein a message may be
   transferred back to the device 301 from the server processing system 410 indicative of the
   outcome of the authentication such that access to the device 301 is granted or prevented.

                                                  -14
   When a passenger enters the taxi, the taxi driver can select the meter application 312 to be
   executed by the processor 301. The selection of the meter application 312 can be via the touch
   screen interface 328. The tactile input controls 318 may alternatively be used by the taxi driver
   in order to ease the selection process for the taxi driver. Upon being launched, the meter
 5 application 312 utilises the fare data 354 stored in the data store 306 to calculate the fare for
   the trip in real time. Generally, the meter application 312 uses a combination of rules to
   determine the fare due during the trip. The fare data 354 is generally referred to as fare tables
   which can be updated in the device 301, as will be discussed in more detail below. Generally,
   the fare that is calculated by the meter application 312 is based on the distance travelled and
10 the time of the trip. The distance travelled is calculated using signals received from the
   encoder 352 which indicates rotations of the wheels of the taxi. Other factors may also be
   utilised for calculating the fare. For example, the time or day (i.e. weekday or weekend) which
   the trip commences may result in a higher or lower fare being applicable. Additionally, as will
   be discussed in more detail below, any tolls that may be incurred during the trip may also be
15 added to the due amount. The processor 302 presents a meter application interface via the
   touch screen interface to the passenger during the trip such that the passenger can be aware of
   the accruing amount due.
   The meter application 312 also utilises the toll data 356 to automatically determine tolls that
20 are incurred during the trip. The toll data 356 defines a plurality of associated entry and exit
   areas for tolled areas. The entry and exist areas are geographical areas which define when the
   taxi has entered or exited upon a road which a toll is incurred. During the trip, time-stamped
   GPS coordinates are recorded periodically by the processor using the GPS unit 337 and GPS
   antenna 344 and stored in the data store 306 as trip data 366, wherein the trip data 366 stored
25 is associated with an identity for the specific trip for the passenger. The clock 336 may be
   used for time-stamping GPS coordinates if required. The meter application 312 continuously
   compares a selection of the latest recorded time-based GPS coordinates during the trip against
   one or more of the entry and exist areas defined in the toll data 356. In the event the taxi is
   identified as having passed through an entry area of a tolled area, the processor logs a tolled

                                                 - 15
   entry event in the trip data 366 and the time which this entry occurred. The meter application
   312 then continues to continuously compare a selection of the latest recorded time-based GPS
   coordinates during the trip against the defined entry and exit areas until there is a detection of
   the taxi having passed through an exit area of a tolled area. The exit area detected and the time
 5 that the taxi passed through the exit area are recorded in the trip data 366. The meter
   application then attempts to match the detected exit area with the previously detected entry
   area based on the associated entry and exit areas defined in the toll data 356. Each associated
   entry and exist areas have one or more associated temporal thresholds such as a temporal
   range which defines a lower and upper limit as to how long it should take for the taxi to pass
10 through the areas. The meter application 312 compares the temporal duration between the taxi
   passing through the entry and exit areas against the temporal range. In the event that the
   duration between the detections falls outside the temporal range, the meter application
   dismisses the toll detection. However, in the event that the duration between the detections
   falls within the temporal range, the meter application 312 retrieves from the toll data 356 a toll
15 amount associated with the detected entry and exit areas which is then combined with the
   accruing amount due for the trip and displayed upon the touch screen display. As such, the
   touch screen display 328 displays in real time the amount accrued from the toll incurred rather
   than the taxi driver requiring to include this amount to the accrued amount at the end of the
   trip. The meter application 312 may also use the time stamped GPS coordinates to determine a
20 direction which the taxi is travelling to determine whether a toll should be incurred by the
   passenger (i.e. directional dependent tolls).
   At the end of the trip, the taxi driver can input via the tactile input controls 318 or the touch
   screen display 328 that the trip has ended. In response, the meter application 312 stops the
25 calculation of the accruing amount due thereby defining a final due amount. A payment
   application 310 is then launched by the processor or via input by the taxi driver. The payment
   application 310 displays an interface indicating the final due amount received from the meter
   application 312 or retrieved from memory 304 and a number of options for payment by the
   passenger.

                                                 - 16
   In particular, the passenger may wish to utilise the PIN pad device 350 or 340 to pay the final
   amount due. In particular, a financial instrument such as a card including a magnetic stripe or
   a smart card can be utilised to perform the financial transaction. An input means of the PIN
 5 pad device 350 may be utilised to provide a personal identification number to verify the
   financial transaction although this may not be necessary depending upon the type of
   transaction. In the event that the taxi is located in an area where the communication device
   320 is able to wirelessly communicate with the payment processing system 470, encrypted
   data is then transferred from the PIN pad device 350 to the secure crypto-processor 334 to
10 process the encrypted financial transaction data which is wirelessly transferred by the
   communication device 320 to the payment processing system 470 (see Figure 4, commonly
   referred to as a "switch"). A message is then received by the device 301 via the
   communication device 320 indicating whether the financial transaction was successfully
   processed. A payment record that is recorded as payment data 358 is then stored in the data
15 store 306 indicative of the financial payment processed, wherein a driver identity is recorded
   in association with the payment record to identify the driver associated with the transaction.
   However, in instances where the taxi is located in areas where the communication device 320
   is unable to wirelessly communicate with the payment processing system 470, the secure
   crypto-processor 334 stores the encrypted financial transaction data which can be processed at
20 a later time/date when communication with the payment processing system 470 is available.
   The encrypted financial transaction data may be associated with an expiration date wherein the
   financial transaction data must be processed prior to the expiration date.
   Another payment option includes allowing the passenger to complete the financial transaction
25 using a NFC enabled device such as a NFC enabled payment card or an NFC mobile
   communication device 450. In particular, the passenger places the NFC enabled device within
   a defined proximity of the NFC reader wherein the NFC reader and the NFC transmitter
   couple such that data is wirelessly transferred from the NFC enabled device to the device 301
   for processing by the secure crypto-processor 334.

                                                   - 17
   In another option, the passenger may wish to use a financial payment tool which utilises visual
   indicia, such as a bar code or the like. For example, a printed coupon bearing visual indicia
   may be presented or visual indicia may be displayed upon the passenger' s mobile
 5 communication device 450. The visual indicia can be scanned by the optical sensor 326 and
   the device 310 processes the captured visual indicia to facilitate the financial transaction. For
   example, an identifier may be determined based upon scanned visual indicia by the processor
   302 and the identifier is then transferred the payment processing system 470 if available. If
   communication with the payment processing system 470 is unavailable, the identifier is stored
10 in memory for later processing.
   In another option, the passenger may complete the financial transaction using their mobile
   communication device 450 which executes a mobile computer application 460 which
   communicates with the application server 430 of the server processing system to facilitate the
15 payment. In particular, the passenger may have registered an account with the application
   server 430. The passenger can launch the application 460 wherein authorisation to pay the
   amount due and an identity of the taxi, device 301 or trip is transferred to the server
   application. The passenger can input at least some of these details or the device 301 may
   wirelessly transfer this data to the application 460 via the communication device 320 such as
20 via Bluetooth or Wi-Fi. When the application server 430 receives the data from the application
   460, the application server 430 facilitates the payment of the amount due. In one form, the
   passenger may have credit associated with the registered account, wherein the application
   server 430 facilitates the debiting of the credit associated with the passenger. Alternatively, the
   passenger may have credit card or direct debit data stored in association with the registered
25 account, wherein the application server 430 facilitates the processing of the amount due in
   combination with the payment processing system 470 using these stored details. In some
   embodiments, the passenger may require to provide identification data via the mobile
   communication device 450 such as a username and/or password in order to verify their
   identity to the application server 430 prior to facilitating the financial transaction. A message

                                                   -18
   is sent from the payment processing system 470 to the application server 430 indicative of
   whether the transaction was successful. The message is then transferred to the device 301 via
   the data processing system 420 using the identity of the taxi or the device 301 in order to
   display via the touch screen display the result of the transaction. The application server 430
 5 also transfers an indication of the result of the transaction to the application 460 of the mobile
   communication device 450.
   In another option, the passenger may utilise the application 460 of the mobile communication
   device 450 to establish a wireless connection with the device 301 of the taxi, wherein the
10 device 301 receives payment authorisation data from the mobile communication device
   operated by the passenger. As discussed above, the passenger has an account registered with
   the server processing system. The application 460 receives one or more authorisation data
   objects from the server processing system. Each authorisation data object is effectively a
   virtual payment instrument which provides the passenger authorisation to debit the passenger's
15 account maintained by the server processing system. When the passenger is requires pay a
   fare, one of the authorisation data objects can be transferred from the mobile communication
   device 450 to the device 301, whereby the device 301 can arrange for the passenger's account
   to be debited the fare based on the authorisation data object.
20 Each authorisation data object is indicative of the passenger's account with the server
   processing system. Additionally, each authorisation data object can be indicative of an
   expiration deadline which the authorisation data object is valid. Each authorisation data object
   is preferably encrypted by the server processing system. The server processing system
   maintains, in the server data store 415, data indicative of the authorisation data objects issued
25 to each passenger.
   The application 460 may automatically receive one or more authorisation data objects from
   server processing system when the application 460 is launched by the passenger and the
   application 460 is able to establish a data communication connection with the server

                                                 - 19
   processing system. Alternatively, the passenger can interact with the application 460 to send a
   request to receive one or more tickets. The authorisation data objects are stored in the memory
   of the mobile communication device. The application 460 can store the authorisation data
   objects in a queue, wherein the oldest authorisation data object is stored at the start of the
 5 queue. When an authorisation data object is to be used, the oldest authorisation data object is
   transferred to the device 301 to authorise the payment.
   When the passenger approves payment of the fare due via the application 460, an
   authorisation data object is retrieved from the memory of the mobile communication device
10 450 and transferred to the device 301. The used authorisation data object is then purged from
   authorisation data object queue. Preferably, the transferred authorisation data object is
   encrypted. The device 301 then decrypts the authorisation data object and performs a temporal
   validation process to determine whether the authorisation data object is temporally valid. In
   particular, the device compares the expiration deadline indicated by the authorisation data
15 object against the current time indicated by the clock 336. In the event that the authorisation
   data object has expired, the device transfers         an expiration message to the mobile
   communication device 450 requesting a further authorisation data object to be provided to the
   device which is temporally valid.
20 Once a temporally valid authorisation data object has been identified by the device 301, the
   device may forward the authorisation data object to the server processing system 410 for
   processing, such that the passenger's account is debited accordingly. The server processing
   system 410 updates the server data store 415 to record that one of the authorisation data
   objects issued to the user has been used. A transaction message may be received from the
25 server processing system 410 by the device indicating whether the transaction has been
   successfully completed, wherein the device 301 presents the transaction message via the
   display 328.

                                                 -20
   In particular situations, the device 301 may not be able to establish a data communication
   connection with the server processing system 410 (i.e. due to poor reception). Alternatively,
   the device 301 may be configured to simply request processing of the ticket at a later time
   when a secure data transfer can be established between the device 301 and the server
 5 processing system 410. In these instances, the device 301 stores the authorisation data object
   in memory 306 such that the authorisation data object can be processed at a later time. In these
   situations, the transaction is presumed to be valid, and a successful payment indication is
   presented by the device via the display 328.
10 In this example where the passenger's mobile communication device 450 establishes a data
   connection with the device 301 to provide an authorisation data object, it is important that the
   mobile communication device 450 establishes a data connection with the correct device 301.
   In instances where the data connection is established using Bluetooth protocol, the name of the
   device may be dynamically set by the device 301 to present information regarding the
15 passenger's trip in order for the passenger to more easily identify the correct device 301,
   particularly if more than one Bluetooth enabled device is within proximity of the mobile
   communication device 450.
   When the user launches the application 460 or the passenger interacts with the application to
20 establish a data connection with the device 301, an invitation is broadcast in order for any
   Bluetooth enabled device within the vicinity to respond. When the device 301 within the
   vicinity generates a response, the response includes a unique MAC address associated with the
   device and a dynamic device name including details of the trip. In particular, the device name
   may be dynamically set according to data stored in memory 306 associated with the trip. In
25 particular, the trip data may be indicative of a taxi company associated with the taxi, a
   plurality of digits of the number plate of the taxi, a status indicator, the current fare (i.e. the
   fare due or the currently accruing fare), and a pickup location where the trip began.

                                                    -21
   The status code may be a code, such as a two letter code, indicative of a status of the device
   300. Examples of status codes are provided below:
                           FP                                              Fare paid
                          MR                                            Meter running
                          NH                                              Not for hire
                          DA                                           Device attached
                          PN                                               Pay Now
                          VA                                                Vacant
 5 The status code can be used by the application to filter responding devices which are not
   device 301. In particular, the application 450 disregards responses from devices which do not
   have a status code indicative of a meter running (MR) or a payment being due (PN).
   Furthermore, the filtering process of the application 450 disregards responses from devices
   which are not associated with the taxi company (i.e. the memory of the mobile communication
10 device 450 has stored the taxi company associated with the application).
   Once the filtering process has been performed by the application 450, the list may include
   only a single response from a single device which is device 301. In this case, a Bluetooth
   connection is established automatically between the mobile communication device 450 and
15 the device 301. Alternatively, the passenger may be required to confirm the establishment of
   the connection via the application 450. Once the connection has been established, details of
   the trip can be transferred from the device 301 to the application 450 for presentation to the
   user. The user can then select to pay the fare due as discussed above, wherein an authorisation
   data object is transferred to the device for authorising payment as discussed above.
20
   In certain circumstances where multiple cabs may be located in close proximity of one another
   (i.e at a drop-off point of an airport), the filtered list of responding devices may include more

                                                 -22
   than one potential device which the passenger is required to establish a connection therewith.
   In these circumstances, the application 460 presents a device list to the passenger requiring
   confirmation of the correct device to establish a connection. In particular, each entry in the list
   can display the fare and the pickup location associated with the respective device which are
 5 indicated in the dynamic device name. Based on this information, the user can indicate, via the
   application 450, a selection of the device which most likely is the device 301 associated with
   the passenger's taxi, particularly as the meter application is visible upon the device 301 in the
   passenger's taxi.
10 In one variation, the application 460 may apply a set of scoring rules to each device in the
   filtered device list to determine a weighted score for each device. The weighted score for each
   device is then used to order the filtered device list, wherein the device with the highest
   weighted score is considered the most likely to be device 301 associated with the passenger's
   taxi. The ranked filtered device list is presented by the application 450 to the passenger
15 requesting the passenger's confirmation. In one form, the application 460 presents the ranked
   device list such that the device with the highest weighted score is graphically larger on the
   application interface than the other device(s) in the ranked filtered device list. For example, a
   larger confirmation button may be presented in relation to the device with the highest
   weighted score, thereby indicating that the respective device is considered the most likely to
20 be device 301.
   An example list of scoring rules with an associated weighted score are provided below.
                         S     R'c'e
   The     mobile   communication      device   has
   connected with the respective device with this
   unique MAC address within a temporal range                               10
   (i.e. within previous 5 mins) based on user
   confirmation

                                                  -23
   Highest strength signal                                                   5
   Status is PN (pay now)                                                    4
   As will be appreciated from above, the application may maintain in memory of the mobile
   communication device a list of devices 301 which a data connection has been established,
   upon user confirmation, and an associated time which the connection occurred and/or ended.
 5 The application can then query the previous connections to determine if a particular device in
   the filtered device list had previously established or ended a connection with the mobile
   communication device 450 within a temporal period (i.e. past 5 mins).
   Once input has been received from the passenger indicating which device in the ranked
10 filtered device list is device 301, the Bluetooth connection is established between the device
   301 and mobile communication device 450. Authorisation of the payment can then be
   performed as discussed above in relation to the transfer of an authorisation data object to the
   device 301.
15 Upon completion of the financial transaction a receipt is provided to the passenger. In one
   form, a physical receipt is printed using the printer 348. The printed receipt may include a trip
   identifier which can be used by the passenger using a terminal 480 to retrieve an electronic
   receipt including additional information about the trip. In particular, the passenger can access
   a passenger portal via a web browser 490 wherein the passenger can input the trip identifier
20 which is transferred to the web-server 440. The web-server 440 then queries the server data
   store 415 to retrieve trip data 366 and associated payment data 358 for the trip identified by
   the trip identifier. A visual representation of the trip data 366 may be generated by the server
   processing system 410 in the form of a map indicative of the start point of the trip, the end
   point of the trip and the route, wherein the map is presented as part of the electronic receipt.
25 The amount charged for the trip is also retrieved as well as an indication of tolls incurred and
   optionally the rates that were applied, wherein this additional information is presented as part
   of the electronic receipt.

                                                 -24
   In another form, the electronic receipt can be retrieved via a mobile communication device
   450 if payment was made via the application 460. In particular, upon payment, a receipt
   section of the application 460 can be selected by the passenger, wherein a list of receipts for
 5 paid trips is displayed. The passenger can select one of the trips via the application 460
   wherein a receipt request indicative of the identity of the trip is transferred to the application
   server 430. Similarly to the above situation, additional information associated with the trip is
   retrieved from the server data store 415 and transferred back to the mobile communication
   device 450 for display within the application 460. Alternatively, when payment of a trip is
10 completed, the electronic receipt is transferred for storage by the mobile communication
   device 450 such that a receipt request does not need to be transferred to the server processing
   system 410 in the future.
   In another embodiment, the application 460 can enable a user to review the route taken by the
15 taxi driver prior to completing the financial transaction. In one form, the taxi driver can
   interact with the device 301 via the touch screen display 328 or controls 318 to issues a route
   review request in order to present the trip data 366, or a representation thereof, via the touch
   screen display 328. In particular, a map may be generated or requested by the processor 301
   from a third party processing system indicative of the route indicated by the trip. In another
20 form, the route review request is transferred from the mobile communication device 450 of the
   passenger to the server processing system 410 to retrieve the trip data 366 associated with the
   trip. Alternatively, the mobile communication device 450 may communicate with the device
   301 to retrieve the trip data 366. A map can then presented via the application 460 to enable
   the passenger to review the route to ensure that the taxi driver has taken the appropriate route.
25
   In the event of a visually impaired passenger, audio output may be provided. In particular, the
   device 310 includes a speaker to emit audio output indicative of the amount due for the fare
   and optionally components of the fare (tolls, fare rates, etc). Additionally, the speaker 319
   may emit audio output indicative of the route taken based upon the trip data 366. If the

                                                  -25
   passenger utilises the mobile communication device 450, audio output may be emitted from
   the mobile communication device 450 under control from the application 460 indicating the
   fare due and/or the route taken for the trip.
 5 The accelerometer 324 of the device 301 can be used to detect the proper acceleration
   experienced by the device 301 located within the taxi. The proper acceleration may be sensed
   periodically and recorded periodically by the device 301 or optionally only instances of the
   proper acceleration exceeding a proper acceleration threshold are recorded as part of the
   operational data 360. The proper acceleration can be used by the server processing system 410
10 to determine unusual driving events such as a crash or erratic driving by the taxi driver. This
   data can be accessed by an owner of the taxi, or another authorised operator operating a
   computer terminal 480 which is in communication with the web-server 440 of the server
   processing system 410.
15 As previously discussed, the GPS unit 337 can be utilised to determine whether a toll should
   be incurred by the passenger. The GPS unit 337 is configured to periodically detect a current
   location of the taxi whilst the device 301 is operational. Time-stamped GPS coordinates are
   stored as part of the operational data 360 recorded in the data store 306. Time-stamped GPS
   coordinates which are stored may also be associated with a trip identity in the trip data 336 in
20 order to identify the route which the taxi driver used for a passenger.
   The device 301 can be updated through use of a portable configuration device 342 which
   couples to the interface 338. The configuration device 342 is generally used by authorised
   personnel provided with the task of configuring the device 301 and system 300. Generally, the
25 configuration device 342 is a USB storage device although other types of portable storage
   mediums can be utilised. The configuration device 342 can have stored therein one or more
   cryptographic keys for authentication purposes such that the device 301 is placed in a
   configuration mode thereby allowing the device 301 to be configured or reconfigured.
   Optionally, the configuration device 342 may include fare data to update the device 301.

                                                  -26
   The device 301 has stored in the data store 306 one or more corresponding cryptographic keys
   368. Upon coupling the configuration device 342 to the interface 338 of the device 301, the
   operating system 317 performs an authentication process using the cryptographic keys of the
 5 configuration device 342 and those stored in the data store 306. Upon successful
   authentication, the operation system 317 launches the configuration application 309 wherein a
   configuration interface is displayed upon the touch screen display 328. The authorised
   personnel can then interact with the configuration application 309 to update the fare data 354
   currently stored in the data store 306 with new fare data which may be stored on the
10 calibration device 342 or located remotely at a remote storage device such as server data store
   415.
   In addition, the configuration application 309 enables the authorised personnel to calibrate the
   device 301 and system 300. For example, the configuration data 370 stored in the data store
15 may be updated to indicate the distance travelled between signals received the encoder 352.
   Once configuration has been completed, the authorised personnel can close the configuration
   application 309. Alternatively, the authorised personnel can disconnect the configuration
   device 342 from the USB interface 338, wherein the operating system 317 detects the
   disconnection and automatically closes the configuration application 309.
20
   The device 410 can also be configured remotely via the server processing system 410 wherein
   configuration data or instructions can be transferred from the server processing system 410 to
   the device 301 for updating the configuration data 370 stored in the data store 306. In
   particular, the server processing system has one or more cryptographic keys which are used by
25 the device 301 to perform the authentication process such that the device 301 is placed in the
   configuration mode. The server processing system 410 can then transfer new fare data to the
   device 301 to replace old fare data stored in the device's memory 306.

                                                  -27
   A storage device 339, such as a USB storage device, can be coupled by the taxi driver to the
   interface 338 in order to copy at least a portion of the data stored in the data store 306. In
   particular, the taxi driver may wish to keep a copy of the trips and payments made whilst
   operating the taxi for a particular shift. The taxi driver couples the USB storage device 339 to
 5 the interface 338 and then interacts with the touch screen device to select the data to be copied
   to the USB storage device 339. The reporting application 314 can be used to perform this task,
   wherein the reporting application 314 may indicate the data stored in the 306 which the driver
   can copy. It is preferable that the reporting application 314 only allows a portion of the data
   306 to be copied as particular data may not be appropriate for the taxi driver. For example,
10 payment data and/or trip data associated with the taxi driver may be copied to the USB storage
   device 339 by the reporting application 314.
   Whilst the device 301 is operational, the reporting application 314 transfers various data from
   the data store 306 to the server processing system 410, wherein the server processing system
15 410 records this data in the server data store 415. In some forms, the reporting application 314
   periodically transfers the data to the server processing system 410. For example, the payment
   data 358 associated with the current taxi driver, operational data 360, detection data 372 and
   trip data 366 may be transferred to the server processing system 410. Generally, only new
   records that have not been previously transferred are sent to the server processing system by
20 the reporting application 314.
   During a trip for a passenger, the device 301 can receive a video feed from the video camera
   332 of the system 300. The device 301              displays on the touch screen display 328,
   simultaneously with the meter interface of the meter application 312, a video frame indicative
25 of the video feed. The video feed acts as a deterrent to passengers to refrain from performing
   an illegal act such as assaulting the taxi driver or exiting the tax without payment. The
   processor 302 may store in the data store 306 at least a portion of the video feed.

                                                -28
   The passenger detection sensor(s) 346 can be used to detect when a passenger enters or exits
   the taxi. In one form, the passenger detection sensor(s) 346 may be one or more door latch
   sensors to sense when the door of the taxi is opened or closed. The passenger detection
   sensor(s) 346 may additionally or alternatively be one or more pressure sensors for sensing
 5 pressure upon passenger seats in the taxi. The processor 302 uses the one or more signals
   received from the pressure detection sensor(s) to determine if a passenger is in the taxi. Upon
   positive determination, the processor 302 stores in the data store 304 an instance and time of
   the detection as detection data 364. The detection data 364 can be reported back to the server
   processing system and can be used in combination with the operational data 360 and the
10 payment data 358 to audit whether free trips are being provided by the taxi driver.
   Whilst the device 301 is operational, the communication device 320 measures and stores
   signal strength data indicative of GPRS signal strength of one or more communication
   networks. The signal strength data is stored as part of the operational data 360 which is
15 periodically transferred from the device 301 to the server processing system 410 for storage in
   the server data store 415.
   The secure crypto-processor 334 of the device 301 is configured with an anti-tamper
   assembly. In particular, in the event that the housing of the device 301 is opened, the anti
20 tamper assembly is actuated causing the secure crypto-processor 334 to dump all data from
   memory to ensure that secure keys are not used for fraudulent purposes.
   During the trip the passenger can arrange for prepayment prior to reaching the destination. In
   particular, the passenger may utilise the application 460 of the mobile communication device
25 450 to arrange for automatic prepayment. Authorisation data is transferred to the server
   processing system 410 from the mobile communication device 450 to authenticate the
   payment of the final amount due calculated by the device 301. Additionally, the authorisation
   data may be indicative of a destination point or area to ensure that the trip is recorded as
   ending by the device 301 in the event that the taxi driver does not record the trip as having

                                                 -29
   ended. When authorisation has been received by the server processing system 410, a
   confirmation message is transferred from the server processing system 410 to the device 301
   to indicate to the taxi driver, via the touch screen display 328, that prepayment authorisation
   has been received. Additionally, a confirmation message is transferred to the mobile
 5 communication device 450 via the application 460 indicating of the prepayment arrangement
   and a trip identifier which can be used to obtain a copy of an electronic receipt in the future.
   Upon reaching the destination, the taxi driver interacts with the device 301 via the touch
   screen display 328 or the controls 318 to record the end of the trip. The total due amount is
   transferred from the device 301 to the server processing system 410, due to the prepayment
10 being authorised, wherein the server processing system 410 facilitates the payment
   accordingly which may include transferring a payment request to the payment processing
   system 470 if required. Due to the prepayment arrangement, the device 301 records the
   amount due in the payment data 358 in the data store. The passenger can use the trip identifier
   indicated in response to the confirmation of prepayment to obtain a copy of the electronic
15 receipt. This may be achieved via the application 460 or via a terminal 480 as previously
   discussed.
   The device 301 also has stored in memory 304 a news application 316. The news application
   316 includes an interface which is presented simultaneously whilst the meter application 312
20 is operating. The news application 316 presents recent news information accessed from either
   the server processing system 410 or a third party processing system. The news application 316
   may be presented in the form of a news ticker application.
   The device 301 can have an additional PIN pad 340 releasably coupled thereto via the
25 interface 338. Specifically, particular taxi operators may wish to process other financial
   instruments which PIN pad 350 may be unable to process. As such, the interface 338 enables a
   second or alternate PIN pad 340 to be releasably coupled to the device 301 in order to process
   other financial instruments.

                                                 -30
   Optional embodiments of the present invention may also be said to broadly consist in the
   parts, elements and features referred to or indicated herein, individually or collectively, in any
   or all combinations of two or more of the parts, elements or features, and wherein specific
   integers are mentioned herein which have known equivalents in the art to which the invention
 5 relates, such known equivalents are deemed to be incorporated herein as if individually set
   forth.
   Although a preferred embodiment has been described in detail, it should be understood that
   many modifications, changes, substitutions or alterations will be apparent to those skilled in
10 the art without departing from the scope of the present invention.
   The present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely
   software embodiment, firmware, or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects.
15 Throughout this specification and claims which follow, unless the context requires otherwise,
   the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood
   to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of
   any other integer or group of integers.

                                                 -31
   Claims
    1.     A device for use in a taxi, wherein the device includes a processing system including a
   memory having stored therein a plurality of computer applications, wherein the processing
 5 system is configured to:
           execute a meter application during a passenger trip to determine a fare due; and
           execute a payment application to facilitate electronic payment of the fare due.
   2.      The device according to claim 1, wherein the device includes a touch screen display to
10 display one or more interfaces of the plurality of computer applications and to receive input
   for operating the plurality of computer applications.
   3.      The device according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the device includes or is in
   communication with one or more sensors, wherein operational data indicative of sensed
15 signals are stored in the memory.
   4.      The device according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the one or more sensors
   include an accelerometer, wherein the operational data is indicative of a proper acceleration of
   the device in the taxi.
20
   5.      The device according to claim 4, wherein the operational data is indicative of the
   proper acceleration of the device which is greater than a proper acceleration threshold.
   6.      The device according to any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein the one or more sensors
25 include one or more passenger detection sensors for detecting a passenger entering or exiting
   the taxi.
   7.      The device according to claim 6, wherein the one or more passenger detection sensors
   include one or more door latch sensors.

                                                 -32
   8.      The device according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the one or more passenger detection
   sensors include one or more pressure sensors to sense a passenger sitting in a passenger seat in
   the taxi.
 5
   9.      The device according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the device includes a NFC
   reader for communicating with a NFC enabled device.
    10.    The device according to claim 9, wherein the NFC reader communicates with a
10 payment instrument including a NFC chip, wherein the payment application facilitates
   payment of the far due based upon the data sensed from the payment instrument.
    11.    The device according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the device includes an
   optical sensor for scanning indicia indicative of a payment request, wherein the payment
15 application uses the payment request to facilitate electronic payment of the fare due.
    12.    The device according to claim 11, wherein the indicia scanned by the optical sensor is:
           printed media; or
           an electronically displayed graphic.
20
    13.    The device according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the device includes a GPS
   unit for recording time-stamped GPS coordinates of the taxi during the trip.
    14.    The device according to claim 13, wherein the memory has stored therein toll data
25 indicative of associated entry and exit areas for tolled areas, wherein the processing system
   automatically detects using the time-stamped GPS coordinates whether the taxi has passed
   through associated entry and exit areas of a tolled area, wherein in response to the detection,
   the meter application modifies the fare due to include a toll amount associated with the
   respective tolled area.

                                                  -33
    15.    The device according to claim 14, wherein the processing system determines the
   duration between the taxi passing through the detected entry and exit areas against one or
   more temporal thresholds, wherein in the event that the duration satisfies the one or more
 5 temporal thresholds, the meter application modifies the fare due according to the associated
   toll amount.
    16.    The device according to claim 15, wherein the temporal threshold is a temporal range,
   wherein in response to the processing system determining that the duration is within the
10 temporal range, the fare due is modified with the toll amount accordingly by the meter
   application.
    17.    The device according to any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the device has stored in the
   memory configuration data.
15
    18.    The device according to claim 17, wherein the device is configured by a portable
   configuration storage device which connects to an interface of the device.
    19.    The device according to claim 1 to 18, wherein the device includes a communication
20 device for enabling wireless communication with one or more remote devices.
   20.     The device according to any claim 19, wherein the device establishes a data
   communication connection with a mobile communication device associated with the
   passenger which is used for facilitating payment of the fare due, wherein the device
25 dynamically sets a device name indicative of one or more details of the trip in order for the
   passenger to identify the device for establishing the data communication connection.
   21.     The device according to claim 20, wherein the one or more details of the trip which
   form part of the device name are indicative of:

                                                   -34
           the fare; and
           a location at the beginning of the trip.
   22.     The device according to claim 21, wherein after the data communication connection is
 5 established, the device receives an authorisation data object from the mobile communication
   device authorising payment of the fare due, wherein the authorisation data object is associated
   with an account associated with passenger and maintained by the server processing system,
   wherein the device transfers the authorisation data object to the server processing system for
   the passenger's account to be debited according to the fare due.
10
   23.     The device according to claim 22, wherein the authorisation data object is indicative of
   an expiration deadline, wherein the device performs a validation of the authorisation data
   object based on the expiration deadline to determine if the authorisation data object has
   expired, and in the event of the authorisation data object has expired, transferring data to the
15 mobile communication device indicating that the authorisation data object has expired.
   24.     A system including:
           the device according to any one of claims 1 to 19; and
           a server processing system in data communication with the device.
20
   25.     The system according to claim 24, wherein the server processing system has access to
   a server data store having stored therein trip data and payment data recorded by the device,
   wherein the server processing system is configured to:
           receive a request for an electronic receipt relating to a trip from a requesting device;
25 and
           transfer to the requesting device an electronic receipt indicative of the trip data and
   payment data associated with the trip, wherein the trip data and payment data are retrieved
   from the server data store.

                                                  -35
   26.     The system according to claim 25, wherein the electronic receipt is indicative of the
   route of the trip.
   27.     The system according to claim 26, wherein the route of the trip is indicated by a map.
 5
   28.     The system according to any one of claims 25 to 27, wherein the server processing
   system hosts a reporting portal for reporting at least some of the data recorded by the device of
   the taxi and stored in the server data store, wherein the server processing system is configured
   to:
10         receive, from a requesting device, a request to report at least some of the data recorded
   by the device associated with the respective taxi;
           generate a report based upon data stored in the server data store; and
           transfer the report to the requesting device.
15 29.     The system according to any one of claims 25 to 28, wherein the system includes a
   mobile communication device application executed upon a mobile communication device
   associated with the passenger, wherein the passenger interacts with the mobile communication
   device application to facilitate payment of the fare due, wherein the mobile communication
   device, under control of the mobile communication device application, communicates with at
20 least one of the device and the server processing system to facilitate payment of the fare.
   30.     The    system according to claim 29, wherein the device              establishes   a data
   communication connection with the mobile communication device in order for payment to be
   authorised by the passenger using the mobile communication device, wherein the device
25 dynamically sets a device name indicative of one or more details of the trip in order for the
   passenger to identify the device for establishing the data communication connection.
   31.     The system according to claim 30, wherein the one or more details of the trip which
   form part of the device name are indicative of:

                                                   -36
           the fare; and
           a location at the beginning of the trip.
   32.     The system according to claim 30 or 31, wherein after the data communication
 5 connection is established, the device receives an authorisation data object from the mobile
   communication device authorising payment of the fare due, wherein the authorisation data
   object is associated with an account associated with passenger and maintained by the server
   processing system, wherein the device transfers the authorisation data object to the server
   processing system for the passenger's account to be debited according to the fare due.
10
   33.     The device according to claim 32, wherein the authorisation data object is indicative of
   an expiration deadline, wherein the device performs a validation of the authorisation data
   object based on the expiration deadline to determine if the authorisation data object has
   expired, and in the event of the authorisation data object has expired, transferring data to the
15 mobile communication device indicating that the authorisation data object has expired.
   34.     A device for use in a taxi substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the
   accompanying figures.
20 35.     A system for use with a taxi substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to
   the accompanying figures.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 -1/4-

<removed-date>
                                                 -2/4-
                                                        200
<removed-apn>
                      248           244
                                                                                                 232
                                                242
                                                                   238           236
              250
                                                                                                     234
                             246
                                                 240               230
                                                                                       100
                              204
                                                                    118, 120             116
                    252
                              206                                                218
                                                                                               224
                                     220
                             208                         202                                   224
                                      222
                                                                                               224
                             210
                                                                                       216
                                                                                        214
                            212
                                                270                266
                             260                                                 268
                                                             262
                                          264          264          264        264

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 -3/4-

<removed-date>
                                            -4/4-
                                                                         -     % #.
<removed-apn>
                       #                        , '                 ##   , '/ 0
                                                                            #1
              "
                   "                                                     #!
                                   !                    "       #
              #+
                                                                                #!)
                               & '%
                                (
                                   #)
                                                $   %
                                                            #
                               & '%
                                (
                           $   %       #*

