ABSTRACT
       A solvent system for the removal of acid gases from mixed gas streams is provided. Also
provided is a process for removing acid gases from mixed gas streams using the disclosed solvent
systems. The solvent systems may be utilized within a gas processing system.

              REGENERABLE SOLVENT MIXTURES FOR ACID-GAS SEPARATION
                                       FIELD OF THE INVENTION
          The present invention relates to solvent systems for the removal of specific components of
  gas streams, as well as devices and methods using such systems. More specifically, the invention
  can provide for removal of acid gases, such as CO 2 , SO 2 , COS, CS 2 and NOx. The invention
  further can provide for continuous operation of devices and methods using the system. Further, the
  inventive    methods    can    utilize  multiple    absorption/desorption   means,     including  gas
  absorption/desorption and/or phase-enhanced absorption/desorption.
                                 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
          Various strategies are being pursued to minimize the production and/or release of
  undesirable emissions from combustion processes.          One such strategy is the development of
  technologies for the specific removal of acid gases from gas mixtures, such as the exhausts of
  carbon combustion processes. The separation of acid gases, such as C0 2 , from gas mixtures has
  been carried out industrially for over a hundred years, although no known process has been used on
  a large scale such as that required by large, industrial power plants. Of the numerous processes
  used for CO 2 separation, current technology mainly focuses on the use of various solvents, such as
  alkali carbonates in the BENFIELD TM Process (UOP, LLC), alcoholamines in the ECONAMINE
  FG PLUS T M process (Fluor Corporation), and alcohols, diols, and ethers in the RECTISOL*
  process (Lurgi, GMBH) and the SELEXOL TM solvent (The Dow Chemical Company). In a typical
  solvent-based process, the gas mixture to be treated is passed through a liquid solvent that interacts
0 with acidic compounds in the gas stream (e.g., CO 2 and SO2 ) and separates them from non-acidic
  components. The liquid becomes rich in the acid-gas components, which are then removed under a
  different set of operating conditions so that the solvent can be recycled for additional acid-gas
  removal.
          Methods for removal of the acid-gas components from rich solvents involve pressure and
5 temperature change. Depending on the temperature of the gas mixture and the partial pressure of
  the acid-gas in the mixture, certain solvents are preferred for specific applications. When a solvent
  operates to interact with an acid-gas by chemical absorption, an exothermic chemical reaction
  occurs. The reversal of this reaction requires at least the amount of energy to be added back to the
  rich solvent that was produced by the forward reaction, not to mention the energy needed to bring
0 the rich solvent to the temperature where reversal is appreciable and to maintain conditions to
                                                    -1-

   complete the reverse reaction to an appreciable extent. The energy required to obtain purified acid
   gas from the rich solvent contributes to the cost of the purified product. In particular, the cost of
   the purified acid-gas has become a significant hurdle for the application of solvent technologies to
   fossil-fuel fired power plants for the removal of acid gases from flue gas.
 5         Non-aqueous solvents have been used to remove CO 2 from natural gas streams and require
   less energy for regeneration.         Single-component alcoholic physisorption solvents such as
   RECTISOLTM and SELEXOL* are commercially available for CO 2 separation but perform poorly
   in the humid, near-ambient pressure conditions associated with flue gas. Alcoholamines and
   amines have been combined with alcohols, diols, and cyclic carbonates by various researches to
 0 form "hybrid solvents" whose reaction mechanisms and kinetics have been studied in the literature.
   See, Alvarez-Fuster, et al., Chem. Eng. Sci. 1981, 36, 1513; Ali, et al., Separation and Purification
   Technology 2000, 18, 163; Usubharatana, et al., Energy Procedia 2009, 1, 95; and Park, et al., Sep.
   Sci. Technol. 2005, 40, 1885. In addition, a process known as the "phase-transitional absorption
   method" has been disclosed in relation to methods for deacidizing gaseous mixtures, which
 5 generally consists of the absorption of acid gases into an "absorbing phase" of less density than
   water consisting of a nitrogenous base and an alcohol, followed by transfer of the absorbed acid gas
   into an aqueous "carrier phase". The aqueous carrier phase can be regenerated in a regenerator.
   The process claims to save energy by absorbing an acid gas at a faster rate than in an absorbing
   phase alone, and by avoiding the energy required to pump a rich absorbing phase to a separate
 0 regenerator by utilizing gravity to transfer the acid gas between phases in a single column for
   absorption and regeneration.
           Another group of non-aqueous liquids which could be developed to address many of the
   problems affecting CO 2 solvents are room temperature switchable ionic liquids. These equimolar
   mixtures of amidine or guanidine nitrogen bases and alcohols are non-ionic room temperature
25 liquids that react with CO 2 to form room-temperature ionic liquids. Typically, the conductivity of
   equimolar mixtures increases by one or two orders of magnitude when CO2 is added. Importantly,
   these solvents have higher CO 2 loadings than some aqueous amines, and are regenerable under
   milder conditions. While these solvents are a promising alternative technology, they are not well
   suited for flue gas applications due to their chemistries with respect to water, which typically is a
30 major component of flue gas. CO 2 is captured via the formation of amidinium and guanidinium
   alkyl carbonate salts derived from the conjugate bases of the deprotonated alcohol components.
   However, the alkyl carbonate esters are typically hydrolyzed in water under basic conditions,
   resulting in bicarbonate salts.
                                                     -2-

            Accordingly, it would be beneficial to formulate a new solvent system capable of
    effectively removing acid gases from gas streams (particularly water-containing gas streams) and
    which can be regenerated at a lower temperature and energy load than the solvents currently
    utilized for such purposes.
 5
                                       SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             The present disclosure generally provides solvent systems for the removal of acidic gases,
    such as C0 2 , from a gas stream and methods for removing acidic gases using such solvent systems.
    Various solvent systems are described herein that are capable of functioning in this capacity.
 0           In one aspect is provided a solvent system comprising a solution formed of: an ionic liquid
    consisting of a nucleophilic amine and a protic, non-aqueous liquid, wherein the ionic liquid reacts
    with an acidic gas so as to form an ionic solution comprising: 1) a carbamate salt, Zwitterionic
    sulfamic acid, sulfate salt, or a combination thereof; and 2) a protonated weak acid. In certain such
    solvent systems, the nucleophilic amine is selected from the group consisting of: a primary amine, a
 5  secondary amine, a diamine, a triamine, a tetraamine, a pentamine, a cyclic amine, a cyclic
    diamine, an amine oligomer, a polyamine, an alcoholamine, and mixtures thereof. In certain such
    solvent systems, the protic non-aqueous liquid is a liquid having a pKa of about 8 to about 15. The
    protic non-aqueous liquid can be, for example, selected from the group consisting of: a fluorinated
    alcohol, an optionally substituted phenol; a nitrogen heterocycle, and mixtures thereof. Exemplary
 .0 protic non-aqueous liquids include, but are not limited to, 2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5-octafluoropentanol;
    2,2,3,3-tetrafluoropropanol; 2,2,3,3,3-pentafluoropropanol; 2,2,3,3,4,4-hexafluorobutanol; 2,2,2
    trifluoroethanol; nonafluoro-1-hexanol; 4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-nonafluoroheptanol; 1,1,3,3-hexafluoro-2
    phenyl-2-propanol; 4-methoxyphenol; 4-ethoxyphenol; 2-ethoxyphenol; 4-propoxyphenol;
    imidazole; benzimidazole; N-methyl imidazole; 1-trifluoroacetylimidazole; 1,2,3-triazole; 1,2,4
25  triazole; 2-trifluoromethylpyrazole; 3,5-bistrifluoromethylpyrazole; 3-trifluoromethylpyrazole, 2
    fluorophenol, 3-fluorophenol, 4-fluorophenol, 2-trifluoromethylphenol, 3-trifluoromethylphenol, 4
    trifluoromethylphenol, and mixtures thereof
             In another aspect is provided a solvent system comprising a solution formed of:
    a mixture of two or more nucleophilic amines and two or more non-aqueous liquids, wherein one or
30  more of the nucleophilic amines have structures such that they react with an acidic gas so as to
    form one or more of a carbamate salt, a mixed carbamate, salt, a Zwitterionic sulfamic acid, and a
    sulfate salt. In certain embodiments of such solvent systems, the two or more nucleophilic amines
    can be alkyl fluoroaromatic amines.       For example, the alkyl fluoroaromatic amines can be, for
                                                       -3-

   example, selected from the group consisting of 3-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,                 4-fluoro-N
   methylbenzylamine,          2-fluorophenethylamine,          3-fluorophenethylamine,        and       4
   fluorophenethylamine.       The two or more non-aqueous liquids used according to certain
   embodiments of this solvent system can be, in certain embodiments, selected from the group
 5 consisting     of    2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5-octafluoropentanol,      3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6-hexafluorobutanol,     and
   4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-nonafluoroheptanol.
           In one aspect is provided a solvent system comprising a solution formed of: a nucleophilic
   amine; a non-nucleophilic, nitrogenous base; and a non-aqueous liquid, wherein the nucleophilic
   amine has a structure such that it reacts with an acidic gas so as to form a carbamate salt, a mixed
 0 carbamate salt, a sulfamic acid, a sulfamate, or a sulfate salt, and wherein the non-nucleophilic,
   nitrogenous base and non-aqueous liquid react to form a mixed carbamate salt, a carbonate ester or
   a heteroatom analogue of a carbonate ester.        In certain such solvent systems, the nucleophilic
   amine is selected from the group consisting of 3-fluoro-N-methylbcnzylamine,                 4-fluoro-N
   methylbenzylamine,     2-fluorophenethylamine, 3-fluorophenethylamine,          4-fluorophenethylamine,
 5 and mixtures thereof In certain such solvent systems, the non-nucleophilic nitrogenous base can
   be a guanidine or substituted guanidine. The non-aqueous liquid in this type of solvent system can
   be, for example, a fluorinated alcohol with five or more carbons.
           In an additional aspect is provided a solvent system consisting of: a neat nucleophilic amine
   with a structure such that it reacts with an acidic gas so as to form an amine carbamate salt,
 o Zwitterionic sulfamic acid, sulfate salt, or mixture thereof         In one specific embodiment, the
   nucleophilic amine in such a solvent system can be 3-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine.
           In a further aspect is provided a solvent system comprising a solution formed of: a mixture
   of one or more nucleophilic amines and one or more non-nucleophilic, nitrogenous bases with
   structures such that they react with an acidic gas so as to form carbamates, mixed carbamates,
25 sulfamic acids, sulfate salts, or a mixture thereof In certain embodiments, such a solvent system
   can be such that the one or more nucleophilic amines comprise primary or secondary amines and/or
   the one or more non-nucleophilic, nitrogenous bases comprise tertiary amines, amidines, and/or
   guanidines (wherein one or more of the primary amines, secondary amines, tertiary amines,
   guanidines, and/or amidines can optionally be fluorinated).         Exemplary primary and secondary
30 amines    include,    but    are   not   limited  to,    3-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,       4-fluoro-N
   methylbenzylamine,          2-fluorophenethylamine,          3-fluorophenethylamine,        and       4
   fluorophenethylamine.
                                                     -4-

           The nucleophilic amine component in any of these solvent systems can, in some
    embodiments, be hydrophobic. Where a non-nucleophilic, nitrogenous base is present, the non
    nucleophilic, nitrogenous base can be hydrophobic or substantially immiscible with water.
    Generally, the solvent systems described herein may, in certain embodiments, be substantially
 5  immiscible with water.     For example, in some embodiments, the solvent systems may have a
    solubility with water of less than about 10 g or less than about 20 g of solvent per 100 mL of
    water.    In some embodiments, one or more (including all) components of the solvent systems
    described herein can be described as hydrophobic, substantially immiscible with water, and/or
    immiscible with water. The acidic gases that can react with the various solvent systems described
 0  herein can vary and may comprise, for example, C0 2 , SO 2 , COS, CS 2 , NOx, or a combination
    thereof. In certain specific embodiments, the acidic gas comprises CO 2 or SO 2.
           In another aspect of the invention is provided a process for the removal of acid gas from a
   gas stream, comprising contacting an acid gas-containing gas stream with any of the solvent
   systems described herein. The gas-containing stream can, in some embodiments, be a mixed gas
 5 stream comprising CO 2, SO 2, COS, CS 2, NO, or a combination thereof. In certain embodiments,
   the solvent system can tolerate water up to or equal to about 20% water by volume with no
   degradation of solvent performance.     In some embodiments, the acid gas-containing gas stream
   comprises water and the water can collect as a phase separate from the solvent system.
           The process can, in certain embodiments, further comprise withdrawing an acid gas-rich
 0 solvent and an acid gas-lean gas stream. In some embodiments, the process can further comprise
   regenerating the acid gas-rich solvent by applying heat to form a regenerated solvent comprising a
   lower content of acid gas than present in the acid gas-rich solvent. The heat involved in such a
   process can, for example, be derived from a source selected from the group consisting of low
   pressure steam, hot flue gas, or a combination thereof.
25
                               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           FIG. 1 is a scheme showing various embodiments of solvent systems and reaction pathway
   employed for capturing C0 2;
           FIG. 2 is a diagram of a reboiler-based system embodied by the present invention for the
30 capture and regeneration of acidic gases from a mixed gas stream;
           FIG. 3 is a diagram of a reboiler-free system embodied by the present invention for the
   capture of acidic gases from a mixed gas stream;
                                                     -5-

           FIG. 4 is a diagram of a reboiler-assisted system embodied by the present invention for the
   capture of acidic gases from a mixed gas stream;
           FIG. 5 is a diagram of a waste heat reboiler system embodied by the present invention for
   the capture of acidic gases from a mixed gas stream; and
 5         FIG. 6 is a diagram of a waste heat utilization system embodied by the present invention for
   the capture of acidic gases from a mixed gas stream.
                            DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the
 0 accompanying drawings, in which some, but not all embodiments of the inventions are shown.
   Indeed, these inventions may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as
   limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments are provided so that this
   disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements. As used
   in this specification and the claims, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include plural referents
 5 unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
           In one aspect of the present invention is provided a liquid solvent system. The solvent
   system may be used for the separation of acidic gases from gas mixtures. The term "acid gas" or
   "acidic gas" is intended to refer to any gas component that can result in formation of an acid when
   mixed with water. Non-limiting examples of acid gases encompassed by the present invention
 0 include CO 2 , S02, COS, CS 2 and NOx. For simplicity, the invention is described below in relation
   specifically to CO 2 and SO2 . It is understood, however, that the present invention encompasses
   methods and systems for removal of any acid gas component from a gas stream.                In certain
   embodiments, the solvent system is regenerable in that the acidic gases can be released from the
   solvent, and the solvent can be reused to separate additional acidic gases from further gas mixtures.
25 In particular embodiments, the solvent system is regenerable at temperatures lower than those
   typically required for solvents used for such purposes.
           Generally, the solvent systems described herein comprise some combination of one or more
   of the following classes of reagents: nitrogenous bases (including nucleophilic amines and non
   nucleophilic nitrogenous bases); non-aqueous liquids; protic, non-aqueous liquids; diluents; and/or
30 ionic liquids.   In certain aspects, the solvent systems of the invention comprise a mixture of
   components from two or more of these classes.         In certain aspects, the solvent systems of the
   invention consist of one or more components from a single class of these reagents. These classes of
   reagents are described generally herein.      The various types of solvent systems intended to be
                                                     -6-

    encompassed by the present invention and particularly preferred reagents for each will be
    separately described below.
            Generally, nitrogenous base components include nucleophilic amines and non-nucleophilic
    nitrogenous bases. A nitrogenous base component (i.e., a nucleophilic amine and/or non
 5  nucleophilic nitrogenous base), is a nitrogenous base that reacts according to one or more of the
    mechanisms provided herein. For example, the nitrogenous base may react with CO 2 and/or with
    other components of the solvent system according to one of the embodiments provided herein. In
    some embodiments, the nitrogenous base component(s) (which may be a nucleophilic amine and/or
    non-nucleophilic nitrogenous base) can have a pKa of about 8 to about 15, about 8 to about 14,
 0  about 8 to about 13, about 8 to about 12, about 8 to about 11, or about 8 to about 10. In certain
    embodiments, the nitrogenous base component has a pKa less than about 11. In other
    embodiments, the nitrogenous base can have a pKa of between about 12 and about 15, about 12 to
    about 14, or about 13 to about 15, such as about 12, about 13, about 14, or about 15.
            In the solvent systems described herein, the nitrogenous base component (or components)
 5  of the solvent systems, where present, is advantageously selected such that it has low miscibility
    with water.    In preferred embodiments, the nitrogenous base has higher miscibility with the
    optional one or more other components of the solvent system than with water.                 In some
    embodiments, the nitrogenous base component or components have high solubility in the optional
    one or more other components of the solvent system.
 0O         A nucleophilic amine is an amine having a reactive nitrogen center which bonds with non
    hydrogen nuclei under relevant process time-scales and typical process conditions relevant to the
    gas mixture subjected to treatment therewith. Nucleophilic amines include, but are not limited to,
    primary amines, secondary amines, diamines, triamines, tetraamines, pentamines, cyclic amines,
    cyclic diamines, amine oligomers, polyamines, alcoholamines, and the like.
25          A non-nucleophilic nitrogenous base is a nitrogenous base (including but not limited to, an
    amine) that acts as a Bronsted base, forming bonds with one or more hydrogen nuclei (protons)
    under relevant process time-scale and typical process conditions relevant to the gas mixture
    subjected to treatment therewith to give a positively charged nitrogen center. Non-nucleophilic
    nitrogenous bases include tertiary amines, guanidines, and amidines and/or analogues thereof
30          In certain specific embodiments, various exemplary nitrogenous bases useful as solvent
    system components may be selected from the group consisting of 1,4-diazabicyclo-undec-7-ene
    ("DBU"); 1,4-diazabicyclo-2,2,2-octane;      piperazine ("PZ"); triethylamine ("TEA"); 1,1,3,3
    tetramethylguanidine    ("TMG");     1,8-diazabicycloundec-7-ene;    monoethanolamine       ("MEA");
                                                      -7-

   diethylamine ("DEA"); ethylenediamine ("EDA"); 1,3-diamino propane;                1,4-diaminobutane;
   hexamethylenediamine;       1,7-diaminoheptane;   diethanolamine;    diisopropylamine ("DIPA"); 4
   aminopyridine; pentylamine; hexylamine; heptylamine; octylamine; nonylamine; decylamine; tert
   octylamine;    dioctylamine;    dihexylamine;   2-ethyl-1-hexylamine;     2-fluorophenethylamine;    3
 5 fluorophenethylamine;       3,5-difluorobenzylamine;   3-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine;       4-fluoro-N
   methylbenzylamine; imidazole; benzimidazole; N-methyl imidazole; 1-trifluoroacetylimidazole;
   1,2,3-triazole; 1,2,4-triazole; and mixtures thereof. Still other nitrogenous bases that may be used
   according to the present invention include, for example, those disclosed in U.S. Patent Application
   Publication No. 2008/0058549 to Jessop et al., the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
 0 reference.
           A non-aqueous liquid is understood to be a liquid other than water. In certain situations, the
   non-aqueous liquid is a protic non-aqueous liquid, which is a liquid with an ionizable hydrogen
   which readily dissociates in the presence of a non-nucleophilic amine.             As such, in some
   embodiments, the non-aqueous liquid (e.g., protic non-aqueous liquid) is a "relatively acidic
 5 component," understood to mean a material having an acidity that is greater than the acidity of
   water, preferably substantially greater than the acidity of water.             For example, in some
   embodiments, a non-aqueous liquid (e.g., a protic non-aqueous liquid) that is a relatively acidic
   component can have a pKa of less than about 15, less than about 14, less than about 13, less than
   about 12, less than about 11, or less than about 10. In some embodiments, the relatively acidic
 0 component has a pKa of about 8 to about 15, 9 to about 15, about 10 to about 15, about 11 to about
   15, about 12 to about 15, about 13 to about 15, about 8 to about 14, about 8 to about 13, about 8 to
   about 12, or about 8 to about 11, about 9 to about 14, about 9 to about 13, about 9 to about 12,
   about 9 to about 11, about 10 to about 12, about 10 to about 13, about 10 to about 14, about 11 to
   about 13, or about 11 to about 14. Exemplary classes of relatively acidic components that may be
25 used (as non-aqueous liquids or protic non-aqueous liquids) according to certain embodiments of
   the invention include, but are not limited to the following: fluorinated alcohols; optionally
   substituted phenols; and nitrogen heterocycles (e.g., pyrazoles and imidazoles).           Particularly
   preferred are relatively acidic components selected from fluorinated alcohols and optionally
   substituted phenols.
30         In some embodiments, the solvent systems comprise one or more diluents. A diluent is
   understood to be a solvent component that does not participate in reaction with the other
   components in the solvent system to any significant extent. The types of substances that can serve
   as diluents in such embodiments include certain non-aqueous liquids (including protic, non
                                                     -8-

   aqueous liquids), as described above. Whether a non-aqueous liquid (including a protic, non
   aqueous liquid) can serve as a diluent depends upon the additional component(s) of the solvent
   system wherein it is used.       Non-aqueous liquids (including protic, non-aqueous liquids) are
   considered to be reactive components of the solvent systems described herein unless otherwise
 5 stated. Diluents may, in some embodiments, be relatively acidic components. Exemplary classes
   of relatively acidic components that may be used as diluents according to certain embodiments of
   the invention include, but are not limited to the following: fluorinated alcohols; optionally
   substituted phenols; and nitrogen heterocycles (e.g., pyrazoles and imidazoles).
           In some embodiments, a diluent can have a pKa of less than about 15, less than about 14,
 0 less than about 13, less than about 12, less than about 11, or less than about 10. In some
   embodiments, the diluent has a pKa of the alcohol component is about 6 to about 15, about 7 to
   about 15, about 8 to about 15, about 9 to about 15, about 6 to about 14, about 7 to about 14, about 8
   to about 13, about 9 to about 13, about 6 to about 12, about 7 to about 12, about 8 to about 12,
   about 9 to about 12, about 6 to about 11, about 7 to about 11, about 8 to about 11, about 9 to about
 5 11, about 6 to about 10, about 7 to about 10, or about 8 to about 10. In other embodiments, a non
   aqueous liquid acting as a diluent is not a relatively acidic component, and does not have a pKa that
   falls within the ranges noted above. For example, the diluent may, in certain embodiments, have a
   pKa greater than about 15.
           In some embodiments, the diluent is preferably a non-aqueous diluent.              In certain
 0 embodiments, the diluent is selected such that it has low miscibility with water. For example, in
   some embodiments, the diluent has a solubility of less than or equal to about 1Og/lOOmL in water at
   25 'C (i.e., 10 g of solvent per 100 mL of water) or about 20 g/l 00 mL in water at 25 'C. In other
   embodiments, the diluent has a solubility in water of less than or equal to about 0.01g/1 00 mL, less
   than or equal to about 0.lg/100mL, less than or equal to about 0.5 g/100mL, less than or equal to
25 about lg/lOOmL, less than or equal to about 1.5 g/lOOmL, less than or equal to about 2 g/lOOmL,
   less than or equal to about 2.5 g/1OOmL, less than or equal to about 3 g/l OOmL, less than or equal
   to about 4 g/1OOmL, less than or equal to about 5 g/lOOmL, less than or equal to about 6 g/lOOmL,
   less than or equal to about 7 g/l OOmL, less than or equal to about 8 g/l OOmL, or less than or equal
   to about 9 g/lOOmL in water at 25 'C. In some embodiments, the diluent is completely immiscible
30 with water. Using diluents with low water solubility may result in solvent systems that display one
   or more of the following attributes: they may require less energy for regeneration; may have high
   CO 2 loading capacities; may be able to tolerate water in the gas stream; and/or may be able to be
   separated from water without a large energy penalty.
                                                      -9-

           Certain specific solvent systems are illustrated in FIG. 1 of the present application and are
   described further below. Additional discussion of solvent components that can be used in certain
   solvent systems of the present disclosure is provided, for example, in International Application No.
   PCT/US2011/050442 to Lail et al., filed September 2, 2011 and PCT/US2011/050452 to Lail et al.,
 5 filed September 3, 2011, which are incorporated herein by reference. In some embodiments, the
   solvent systems described herein are substantially immisible with water, having a solubility at 25
   'C of less than or equal to about 10 g of solvent per 100 mL of water, less than or equal to about 20
   g of solvent/100 mL of water, less than or equal to about 9 g of solvent/100 mL of water, less than
   or equal to about 8 g of solvent/100 mL of water, less than or equal to about 7 g of solvent/100 mL
 0 of water, less than or equal to about 6 g of solvent/100 mL of water, less than or equal to about 5 g
   of solvent/100 mL of water, less than or equal to about 4 g of solvent/100 mL of water, less than or
   equal to about 3 g of solvent/100 mL of water, less than or equal to about 2 g of solvent/100 mL of
   water, less than or equal to about 1 g of solvent/100 mL of water, less than or equal to about 0.5 g
   of solvent/100 mL of water, less than or equal to about 0.lg/lOOmL of water, or less than or equal
 5 to about .01 g/100mL of water. In some embodiments, the solvent system is completely immiscible
   with water. Solvent systems with low water miscibility may, in some embodiments, display one or
   more of the following attributes: they may require less energy for regeneration; may have high CO 2
   loading capacities; may be able to tolerate water in the gas stream; and/or may be able to be
   separated from water without a large energy penalty. It is noted that although solvent system
 0 components having low miscibility with water are preferred, the present invention also
   encompasses solvent systems wherein one or more of the components of the solvent system are at
   least partially miscible with water.
           The solvent systems described herein may, as noted above, be used for the removal of one
   or more acidic gases from a gas stream. In some embodiments, the solvent systems of the present
25 disclosure may be particularly useful for capturing CO 2 from a gas stream. The gas stream may be
   a mixed gas stream, having one or more other components in addition to CO 2 . When a solution
   comprising a solvent system of the present invention is purged with a gas mixture containing CO 2 ,
   one or more components of the solvent system undergo a chemical reaction with C0 2, binding the
   CO2 in the solution. In some embodiments, the solvent systems of the present invention have high
30 CO2 loadings. For example, the solvent systems may be useful for capturing or removing greater
   than about 0.05 moles CO2 per mole of nitrogenous base, greater than about 0.1 moles CO 2 per
   mole of nitrogenous base, greater than about 0.2 moles CO 2 per mole of nitrogenous base, greater
   than about 0.3 moles CO 2 per mole of nitrogenous base, greater than about 0.4 moles CO 2 per mole
                                                    -10-

   of nitrogenous base, greater than about 0.5 moles CO 2 per mole of nitrogenous base, greater than
   about 0.6 moles CO 2 per mole of nitrogenous base, greater than about 0.7 moles CO 2 per mole of
   nitrogenous base, greater than about 0.8 moles CO 2 per mole of nitrogenous base, greater than
   about 0.9 moles CO 2 per mole of nitrogenous base, or greater than about 1 mole CO 2 per mole of
 5 nitrogenous base.
           In some embodiments, any of the solvent systems described herein is tolerant to the
   presence of water. In certain embodiments, the solvent system tolerates water up to or equal to
   about 30% water by volume. For example, in some embodiments, the solvent system tolerates up
   to or equal to about 25% water by volume, up to or equal to about 20%, up to or equal to about
 0 15%, up to or equal to about 10%, up to or equal to about 5%, up to or equal to about 2%, or up to
   or equal to about 1% water by volume. In some embodiments, tolerance to the presence of water
   means that there is little to no degradation of the solvent performance up to the indicated volume of
   water. In some embodiments, the solvent system maintains at or near its initial capacity for CO 2
   loading up to the indicated volume of water.
 5         In some embodiments, the solvent system may further comprise one or more additional
   components. The additional components may be added, for example, to increase the solubility of
   the captured CO 2 product in the solvent system, and thus avoid the formation of precipitates. In
   other embodiments, however, solids formation may be desirable, and such formation may be
   enhanced by altering the concentration of one or more solvent system components.
 0         In preferred embodiments, the CO 2 captured using the solvent system of the present
   invention may be released to regenerate the solvent system for reuse. It is preferred that the solvent
   system is regenerable (or reaction with the CO2 is reversible) under mild conditions (e.g., at a low
   temperature).   In some embodiments, the release of CO2 and corresponding regeneration of the
   solvent system is effectuated by heating the solution. When the solution containing bound CO 2 is
25 heated, the chemical reaction is reversed and the CO 2 is released, producing a concentrated CO 2
   stream.
           In some embodiments, the present application relates to a solvent system and process for the
   removal of CO 2 from a gas stream. The present invention applies to any gas stream containing
   CO 2 . For example, in particular embodiments, the invention relates to a process for the removal of
30 CO 2 from fossil fuel combustion flue gas, a natural gas mixture, or a mixture of respiration gases
   from closed environments containing CO 2 . The process involves passing the mixed gas stream
   through one of the solvent systems described herein. In some embodiments, the present invention
   further relates to the regeneration of the solvent system, which releases the CO 2 .           Several
                                                     -11-

    techniques can be employed to regenerate the solvent. These include, but are not limited to,
    thermal swing, partial pressure swing, by flashing, stripping, applying a vacuum, or combinations
    of, pH swing, or combinations of. In some embodiments, regeneration of the solvent system
    involves heating the solvent system at a temperature sufficient to release the CO2. In some
 5  embodiments, the process involves heating the solvent system at a temperature at or below about
    200 'C, for example, at or below about 185 'C, at or below about 150 'C, or at or below about 125
    "C. In preferred embodiments, the process involves heating the solvent system at a temperature at
    or below about 100 'C, for example, at a temperature at or below about 95 'C, at or below about 90
    'C, at or below about 85 'C, at or below about 80 'C, at or below about 75 'C, or at or below about
 0  70 'C.     In some embodiments, the CO 2 may be released at ambient temperature. In certain
    embodiments, the CO 2 is captured in a non-aqueous phase under conditions in which water
    accumulates as a separate, lower density phase. This phase can be sent to the regenerator with the
    rich, non-aqueous phase to be regenerated at a lower temperature than the corresponding rich
    aqueous phase alone. This can be followed by phase separation from the lean, regenerated solvent
 5  before being sent back to the absorber.
            In certain embodiments, at or about 100% of the CO2 is removed from the C0 2-rich solvent
    system. However, in other embodiments, less than 100% of the CO 2 is removed from the C0 2-rich
    solvent system. In preferred embodiments, about 50 to 100% of the captured CO 2 is removed from
    the C0 2-rich solvent system, preferably about 75% to 100%, about 80% to 100%, about 90% to
 .0 100%, about 95% to about 100%, or about 98% to 100%. For example, in some embodiments, at
    least about 98%, 95%, 90%, 85%, 80%, 75%, 70%, 60%, or 50% of the captured CO 2 is removed
    from the C0 2-rich solvent system.
            In some embodiments, the removal of CO 2 from gas mixtures containing H20 in addition to
    CO 2 can lead to the accumulation of H20 in the solvent system, either as a single phase or biphase
25  solution, depending upon the reaction conditions. As noted above, the presence of H2 0 in the
    solvent mixture may be disadvantageous because of an undesirable side reaction, and more energy
    will be required for solvent regeneration due to the necessity of removing water from the solvent.
    Thus, the accumulation of H2 0 in the solvent system may increase the regeneration energy demand,
    decreasing the efficiency of the regeneration system.
30          In some embodiments, the process of the present invention provides a method by which the
    detrimental effects of H2 0 accumulation in the solvent system may be avoided. For example, the
    detrimental effect of H2 0 accumulation on the solvent system regeneration energy demand may be
    minimized, by providing a process by which the CO 2 is captured within the solvent system at a
                                                     -12-

    temperature greater than the H 2 0 saturation temperature of the gas mixture.          Additionally, in
    certain embodiments, the detrimental effect of H20              accumulation on the solvent system
    regeneration energy demand may be minimized by providing a process by which the H2 0
    accumulates as a separate, aqueous phase within the solvent system. This process involves the use
 5  of a solvent system that exhibits little or no solubility in water. In such a system, water that collects
    is present as a separate phase. The separate, aqueous phase may be decanted or centrifuged off by
    mechanical, rather than thermal, processes, minimizing the energy required to maintain an efficient
    CO 2 removal system. For example, as the hydrocarbon chain of aliphatic alcohols is increased in
    length, the solubility of the alcohol in water decreases. This is also true for fluorinated alcohols.
 0  For example, 2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5-octafluoropentanol ("OFP") is substantially immiscible with water.
    Thus, certain solvent systems described herein comprising appropriate components may form a
    biphasic liquid solution when combined with water.            In such solvent systems, water can be
    separated from the solvent system without distillation or the use of a membrane by decanting or
    centrifugation of the aqueous layer from the fluorinated phase.           In some embodiments, after
 5  removal of the H20, the C0 2-rich solvent system can be regenerated at a low temperature with the
    addition of low boiling diluents to satisfy the partial pressure requirements: The solvent system
    could thus avoid the added energy penalty associated with the distillation of water. By providing a
    non-aqueous CO 2 absorbing solvent system with low water solubility, the solvent system has lower
    energy demands and milder regeneration conditions than those of aqueous or high-water affinity
 ,0 CO 2 solvent systems.
            In some embodiments, a system for the removal of CO 2 from a gas stream is provided. A
    schematic of an exemplary system of the present invention is depicted in Figures 2 through 6. The
    CO 2 removal system 10 includes an absorber 12 configured with an inlet to receive a gas stream.
    The gas stream may come directly from, e.g., a combustion chamber of a boiler system in a power
25  generation plant. The gas stream may or may not be passed through other cleaning systems prior to
    entering the CO 2 removal system. The absorber may be any chamber wherein a solvent system for
    the removal of CO 2 is contained, having an inlet and outlet for a gas stream, and wherein the gas
    stream may be brought into contact with the solvent system. Within the absorber, the CO 2 may be
    transferred from gaseous phase to liquid phase according to the principles discussed herein. The
30  absorber may be of any type; for example, the absorber may comprise a spray-tower absorber,
    packed-bed absorber (including countercurrent-flow tower or cross-flow tower), tray-tower
    absorber (having various tray types, including bubble-cap trays, sieve trays, impingement trays,
    and/or float valve trays), venture absorber, or ejector absorber.        The temperature and pressure
                                                       -13-

   within the absorber may be controlled. For example, in one embodiment, the temperature of the
   absorber may be maintained at or near 50-60 'C and the absorber may be maintained at or near
   atmospheric pressure. Thus, the absorber may be equipped with a heating/cooling system and/or
   pressure/vacuum system.
 5         Within the absorber, the gas stream is brought into fluid contact with and passed through a
   solvent system as described herein. The solvent system reacts with the CO 2 present in the gas
   stream, capturing it from the remaining components of the gas, and the resulting C0 2-free gas
   stream is released from the absorber through an outlet. The solvent system continues to react with
   entering CO 2 as the mixed gas stream is passed through, until it becomes "rich" with CO2. The
 0 absorber is optionally connected to one or more components.           For example, the absorber is
   preferably configured with a means for routing solvent to a unit wherein water may be decanted,
   centrifuged, or otherwise removed from the system.
           At any stage in the process of CO 2 capture, the solvent system may be regenerated. The
   system therefore includes an optional regeneration system 14 to release the captured CO2 via a
 5 separate CO 2 gas stream and thus regenerate the solvent system. The regeneration system is
   configured to receive a feed of "rich" solvent from absorber and to return regenerated solvent to the
   absorber once CO 2 has been separated from the "rich" solvent. The regeneration system may
   simply comprise a chamber with a heating unit to heat the solvent system at a temperature
   sufficient to release the gas, along with a release valve to allow the CO 2 to be removed from the
 0 regeneration system. It may also be a distillation column and have essentially the same design as
   described above for the absorption column. The regenerator may be optionally connected to one or
   more components. For example, the regenerator is preferably configured with a means for routing
   solvent to a unit wherein water may be decanted, centrifuged, or otherwise removed from the
   system.
25         The released CO2 can be separated/withdrawn from the system and output to storage or for
   other predetermined uses. The regenerated solvent system is again ready to absorb CO 2 from a gas
   stream, and may be directed back into the absorber.
   I.    Ionic Liquids comprising a nucleophilic amine and a protic, non-aqueous liquid
30
           In one aspect of the present disclosure, a solvent system comprising an ionic liquid is
   provided, wherein the ionic liquid is prepared by combining one or more nucleophilic amines and
   one or more protic non-aqueous liquids. An ionic liquid solvent system as described in this section
   is a system wherein ions (cations and anions) are present in solution. The components generally
                                                    -14-

   have appropriate pKa values so as to form an ionic liquid in which the nucleophilic amine is the
   cation. In certain embodiments, a solvent system comprising an ionic liquid at ambient temperature
   (e.g., between about 20 'C and about 25 'C) is provided. Advantageously, ionic liquid solvent
   systems as described in this section can react with an acidic gas so as to form an ionic solution
 5 comprising: 1) a carbamate salt, Zwitterionic sulfamic acid, sulfate salt, or a combination thereof;
   and 2) a protonated, weak acid.
           Nucleophilic amines that can be used to form certain exemplary ionic liquid solvent systems
   of this type can be primary and/or secondary amines which have reactive nitrogen centers. A
   primary amine is understood to be a compound of the formula NH 2R, where R can be a carbon
 0 containing group, including but not limited to C1-C 20 alkyl. A secondary amine is understood to be
   a compound of the formula NHR1R 2, wherein R1 and R2 are independently carbon-containing
   groups, including but not limited to CI-C      20 alkyl. One or more of the hydrogens on R, R 1, and R 2
   may optionally be replaced with one or more substituents.               For example, one or more of the
   hydrogens on R, R1 , or R2 may be replaced with optionally substituted C1-C6 alkyl, optionally
 5 substituted C1-C 6 alkoxy, optionally substituted C2-Cio alkenyl; optionally substituted C 2-C 10
   alkynyl; optionally substituted alkylaryl; optionally substituted arylalkyl; optionally substituted
   aryloxy; optionally substituted heteroaryl; optionally substituted heterocycle; halo (e.g., Cl, F, Br,
   and I); hydroxyl; halogenated alkyl (e.g.,            CF 3 , 2-Br-ethyl, CH 2 F, CH 2CF 3, and CF 2 CF 3 );
   halogenated aryl; halogenated alkylaryl; halogenated benzyl; optionally substituted amino;
 0 optionally substituted alkylamino; optionally substituted arylamino; optionally substituted acyl;
   CN; NO 2; N3 ; CH 2 OH; CONH 2; C1-C 3 alkylthio; sulfate; sulfonic acid; sulfonate esters (e.g.,
   methanesulfonyl); phosphonic acid; phosphate; phosphonate; mono-, di-, or triphosphate esters;
   trityl or monomethoxytrityl; CF 3 S; CF 3 SO2 ; or silyl (e.g., trimethylsilyl, dimethyl-t-butylsilyl, and
   diphenylmethylsilyl).
25          In certain embodiments, primary or secondary amines may be selected from amines
   functionalized with fluorine-containing-alkyl-aromatic groups. In specific embodiments, the amine
   may be selected from the group consisting of 2-fluorophenethylamine, 3-fluorophenethylamine, 4
   fluorophenethylamine,       2-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,        3-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,       and 4
   fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,         2-fluorobenzylamine, 3-fluorobenzylamine,           4-fluorobenzylamine,
30 4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9,10,10,11,11,11-heptadecafluoroundecylamine,            2,3-difluorobenzylamine, 2,4
   difluorobenzylamine,         2,6-      difluorobenzylamine,        3,4-      difluorobenzylamine      3,5-di
   fluorobenzylamine,           2-trifluormethylbenzylamine,            3 -trifluormethylbenzylamine,         4
                                                         -15-

   trifluormethylbenzylamine,           D-4-fluoro-alpha-methylbenzylamine,           and    L-4-fluoro-alpha
   methylbenzylamine.
            In some embodiments, the nucleophilic amines that can be used in such solvent systems can
   comprise cyclic amines, diamines, primary and/or secondary alcoholamines.                Cyclic amines are
 5 amines wherein the nitrogen atom forms part of the ring structure, and may include, but are not
   limited to, aziridines, azetidines, pyrrolidines, piperidines, piperazines, pyridines, and pyrimidines.
   Cyclic amines may comprise one or more rings and may optionally be substituted with one or more
   substituents as listed above. In some embodiments, the nitrogenous base may be a diamine.                In
   some embodiments, the nitrogenous base may be a primary or secondary alcoholamine.
 0 Alcoholamines are also known as amino alcohols and contain both an alcohol and amine group.
   The amine group of the alcoholamine may be any type of amine as disclosed herein.                       The
   nucleophilic amine component is advantageously, in some embodiments, hydrophobic.
            Protic non-aqueous liquids that may be utilized to form such ionic liquid solvent systems
   include, for example,        fluorinated alcohols;      optionally substituted phenols;       and nitrogen
 5 heterocycles.    Certain protic non-aqueous liquids are fluorinated alcohols (e.g., a fluorinated
   alcohol with five or more carbons, preferably with low water content (e.g., < about 10 wt% water)).
   Fluorinated alcohols useful according to the present disclosure may comprise any compound
   having the formula R-OH, where R is an alkyl group (e.g., Ci-Cio alkyl, Ci-C 8 alkyl, Ci-C 6 alkyl,
   C 2 -C10 alkyl, C2 -C8 alkyl, C2 -C6 alkyl, C3 -Ci 0 alkyl, C3-Cs alkyl, or C3 -C 6 alkyl) and wherein one
 0 or more hydrogen atoms of the alkyl group is substituted with fluorine. In some embodiments, the
   number of hydrogen atoms replaced with fluorine can be two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
   nine, or even more as may be deemed useful. In further embodiments, one or more of the hydrogen
   atoms of the alkyl group may optionally be replaced with one or more other substituents, including,
   but not limited to, C1 -C6 alkyl, C1-C 6 alkoxy, and halo substituents.
25          Optionally substituted phenols useful in the invention are understood to mean phenols
   wherein one or more of the hydrogen atoms on the phenyl ring may be replaced with a substituent.
   Non-limiting, exemplary replacement groups for one or more of the hydrogen atoms on the phenyl
   ring include C1 -C6 alkyl, C1-C6 alkoxy, and halo. Nitrogen heterocycles are understood to mean
   any cyclic compound including at least one nitrogen atom in the ring structure (including but not
30 limited to imidazoles, pyrazoles, and triazoles) and being optionally substituted such that one or
   more of the hydrogen atoms on the ring structure may be replaced with a substituent. In certain
   embodiments, at least one nitrogen atom in the ring structure has an acidic hydrogen atom with a
   pKa lower than about 15 (e.g., between about 8 and about 15).                    Non-limiting, exemplary
                                                        -16-

   replacement groups for one or more of the hydrogen atoms on the ring include C1 -C6 alkyl, C1-C           6
   alkoxy, and halo.
           In some specific embodiments, the protic non-aqueous liquid can be a relatively acidic
   component selected from the group consisting of: 2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5-octafluoropentanol ("OFP");
 5 2,2,3,3-tetrafluoropropanol      ("TFP");     2,2,3,3,3-pentafluoropropanol       ("PFP");    2,2,3,3,4,4
   hexafluorobutanol         ("HFB");      2,2,2-trifluoroethanol     ("TFE");        nonafluoro- 1-hexanol;
   4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-nonafluoroheptanol;      1,1,3,3-hexafluoro-2-phenyl-2-propanol;     4-methoxyphenol
   ("4-MeOPh");       4-ethoxyphenol    ("4-EtOPh");      2-ethoxyphenol;    4-propoxyphenol;     imidazole;
   benzimidazole; N-methyl imidazole; 1-trifluoroacetylimidazole; 1,2,3-triazole; 1,2,4-triazole; 2
 0 trifluoromethylpyrazole;        3,5-bistrifluoromethylpyrazole;       3 -trifluoromethylpyrazole,       2
   fluorophenol, 3-fluorophenol, 4-fluorophenol, 2-trifluoromethylphenol, 3-trifluoromethylphenol, 4
   trifluoromethylphenol, and mixtures thereof. Advantageously, protic non-aqueous liquids used
   within the solvent systems described herein can have low water content (e.g., < about 10 wt%
   water) and/or low water solubility. Typically, the protic, non-aqueous liquids used in this type of
 5 solvent system are active components of the solvent system (i.e., not serving only as diluents).
             In ionic liquid solvent systems as described herein, the hydrogen nuclei of the protic non
   aqueous liquid is sufficiently ionizable to dissociate from the protic non-aqueous liquid and react
   with the nucleophilic base. Acid gas components, such as CO 2 and SO2 , can be absorbed in such
   an ionic liquid solvent by reversible formation of the protic solvent and formation of a bond
 0 between the nucleophilic amine nitrogen and non-hydrogen, acid-gas nuclei forming for example,
   amine carbamate salts, Zwitterions (e.g., Zwitterionic sulfamic acid), sulfamic acids/salts, or a
   combination thereof. One exemplary solvent system and mechanism of reaction is shown in Figure
   1A).
            In this type of solvent system, the absorption of the acid gas component is advantageously
Z5 reversible. Upon loss of the acid gas component, the protic solvent again can donate a proton to the
   nucleophilic base. This solvent system has the advantage of minimizing losses of the nucleophilic
   amine to vapors due to the low vapor pressure of the ionic liquid salt in an absorption column, for
   instance, and the low vapor pressure of the carbamate salt in a regenerator section, for instance.
30 II. Mixtures containing two or more nucleophilic amines and two or more non-aqueous liquids
            In another aspect, a solvent system comprising two or more nucleophilic amines mixed
   together with two or more non-aqueous liquids over a wide range of component ratios is provided
   and can be used to separate acid gas components from a gas mixture. The two or more nucleophilic
                                                       -17-

   amines react with the acid gas components (e.g., CO 2 or SO2) to form at least one bond to nitrogen
   involving a nucleus other than hydrogen. The product formed with CO 2 is a carbamate salt and can
   consist of a single amine carbamate structure or of a mixed amine carbamate structure. In certain
   embodiments, the solvent system removes CO 2 without any substantial formation of a carbonate
 5 ester or a heteroatom analogue of a carbonate ester.
            Nucleophilic amines that can be used to form certain exemplary solvent systems of this type
   can be primary and/or secondary amines which have reactive nitrogen centers. A primary amine is
   understood to be a compound of the formula NH 2R, where R can be a carbon-containing group,
   including but not limited to C1-C      20 alkyl. A secondary amine is understood to be a compound of
 0 the formula NHRIR 2 , wherein R1 and R 2 are independently carbon-containing groups, including but
   not limited to Ci-C 20 alkyl.      One or more of the hydrogens on R, R 1, and R 2 may optionally be
   replaced with one or more substituents. For example, one or more of the hydrogens on R, R 1, or R 2
   may be replaced with optionally substituted C1-C          6 alkyl, optionally substituted C1-C    6 alkoxy,
   optionally substituted C2 -C 10 alkenyl; optionally substituted C2 -Cio alkynyl; optionally substituted
 5 alkylaryl; optionally substituted arylalkyl; optionally substituted aryloxy; optionally substituted
   heteroaryl; optionally substituted heterocycle; halo (e.g., Cl, F, Br, and I); hydroxyl; halogenated
   alkyl (e.g., CF3 , 2-Br-ethyl, CH 2F, CH 2 CF3 , and CF 2CF 3); halogenated aryl; halogenated alkylaryl;
   halogenated benzyl; optionally substituted amino; optionally substituted alkylamino; optionally
   substituted arylamino; optionally substituted acyl; CN; NO 2 ; N 3 ; CH 2OH; CONH 2; C-C        3 alkylthio;
 0 sulfate; sulfonic acid; sulfonate esters (e.g., methanesulfonyl); phosphonic acid; phosphate;
   phosphonate; mono-, di-, or triphosphate esters; trityl or monomethoxytrityl; CF 3 S; CF 3 SO 2 ; or
   silyl (e.g., trimethylsilyl, dimethyl-t-butylsilyl, and diphenylmethylsilyl).
            In certain embodiments, primary or secondary amines may be selected from amines
   functionalized with fluorine-containing-alkyl-aromatic groups. In specific embodiments, the amine
25 may be selected from the group consisting of 2-fluorophenethylamine, 3-fluorophenethylamine, 4
   fluorophenethylamine,       2-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,      3-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,        and 4
   fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,          2-fluorobenzylamine, 3-fluorobenzylamine,       4-fluorobenzylamine,
   4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9,10,10,11,11,11-heptadecafluoroundecylamine,         2,3-difluorobenzylamine, 2,4
   difluorobenzylamine,         2,6-      difluorobenzylamine,      3,4-     difluorobenzylamine        3,5-di
30 fluorobenzylamine,            2-trifluormethylbenzylamine,         3-trifluormethylbenzylamine,           4
   trifluormethylbenzylamine,             D-4-fluoro-alpha-methylbenzylamine,        and    L-4-fluoro-alpha
   methylbenzylamine.
                                                        -18-

           In some embodiments, the nucleophilic amines that can be used in such solvent systems can
   comprise cyclic amines, diamines, primary and/or secondary alcoholamines.             Cyclic amines are
   amines wherein the nitrogen atom forms part of the ring structure, and may include, but are not
   limited to, aziridines, azetidines, pyrrolidines, piperidines, piperazines, pyridines, and pyrimidines.
 5 Cyclic amines may comprise one or more rings and may optionally be substituted with one or more
   substituents as listed above. In some embodiments, the nucleophilic amine may be a diamine. In
   some embodiments, the nucleophilic amine may be a primary or secondary alcoholamine.
   Alcoholamines are also known as amino alcohols and contain both an alcohol and amine group.
   The amine group of the alcoholamine may be any type of amine as disclosed herein.
 0         Preferably, one or both of the nucleophilic amines are non-aqueous and/or are hydrophobic
   and can advantageously have low water solubility (e.g., < about 10 wt %). Certain exemplary
   nucleophilic amines useful in this type of solvent system include, but are not limited to, alkyl
   fluoroaromatic amines such as 3-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine, 4-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine, 2
   fluorophenethylamine, 3-fluorophenethylamine, and 4-fluorophenethylamine.
 5         Non-aqueous liquids useful according to this type of solvent system can vary.          It is noted
   that one or more such non-aqueous liquids may, in some embodiments, be a protic, non-aqueous
   liquid. Preferably, one or both of the non-aqueous liquids have low water solubility (e.g., < about
   10 wt%) and/or are hydrophobic. In certain embodiments, such non-aqueous liquids comprise
   fluorinated alcohols. Fluorinated alcohols useful according to the invention may comprise any
 0 compound having the formula R-OH, where R is an alkyl group (e.g., Ci-Cio alkyl, C1 -C8 alkyl, Ci
   C6 alkyl, C2 -C10 alkyl, C2 -C8 alkyl, C2 -C6 alkyl, C3 -C 10 alkyl, C3 -C8 alkyl, or C3 -C6 alkyl) and
   wherein one or more hydrogen atoms of the alkyl group is substituted with fluorine. In some
   embodiments, the number of hydrogen atoms replaced with fluorine can be two, three, four, five,
   six, seven, eight, nine, or even more as may be deemed useful. In further embodiments, one or
25 more of the hydrogen atoms of the alkyl group may optionally be replaced with one or more other
   substituents, including, but not limited to, Ci-C 6 alkyl, C1-C6 alkoxy, and halo substituents. Certain
   exemplary non-aqueous liquids include, but not limited to, 2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5-octafluoropentanol,
   3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6-hexafluorobutanol,      and    4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-nonafluoroheptanol.        In     specific
   embodiments, one or more of the non-aqueous liquids may be selected from the group consisting of
30 toluene,    p-xylene,    1-methylnaphthalene,      2,4,6-dimethylaminophenol,     benzylalcohol,      2,6
   dimethylcyclohexanone, 3,5-lutidine, cyclohexanone, aniline, pyridine, 2-fluoroacetylphenone, 1
   fluorodecane, 2,4-difluorobenzophenone, 2-fluoro-3-trifluoromethylaniline,           2-fluoroaniline, 4
                                                      -19-

   fluoroaniline,      3 -trifluoromethylacetophenone,         2-trifluoromethylacetophenone,          bis(2,2,2
   trifluoroethyl)methylphosphonate, 4-fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)benzaldehyde and mixtures thereof.
            Other exemplary classes of protic non-aqueous liquids that may be used according to this
   class of solvent systems include, but are not limited to the following: optionally substituted
 5 phenols; and nitrogen heterocycles.          Optionally substituted phenols useful in the invention are
   understood to mean phenols wherein one or more of the hydrogen atoms on the phenyl ring may be
   replaced with a substituent. Non-limiting, exemplary replacement groups for one or more of the
   hydrogen atoms on the phenyl ring include CI-C 6 alkyl, C1-C 6 alkoxy, and halo.                     Nitrogen
   heterocycles are understood to mean any cyclic compound including at least one nitrogen atom in
 0 the ring structure (including but not limited to imidazoles, pyrazoles, and triazoles) and being
   optionally substituted such that one or more of the hydrogen atoms on the ring structure may be
   replaced with a substituent. In certain embodiments, at least one nitrogen atom in the ring structure
   has an acidic hydrogen atom with a pKa lower than about 15 (e.g., between about 8 and about 15).
   Non-limiting, exemplary replacement groups for one or more of the hydrogen atoms on the ring
 5 include C1 -C6 alkyl, C1-C 6 alkoxy, and halo.
           In some specific embodiments, the non-aqueous liquid is a relatively acidic component
   selected from the group consisting of: 2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5-octafluoropentanol                 ("OFP"); 2,2,3,3
   tetrafluoropropanol ("TFP"); 2,2,3,3,3-pentafluoropropanol ("PFP"); 2,2,3,3,4,4-hexafluorobutanol
   ("HFB");        2,2,2-trifluoroethanol         ("TFE");      nonafluoro-1-hexanol;          4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7
 0 nonafluoroheptanol; 1,1,3,3-hexafluoro-2-phenyl-2-propanol; 4-methoxyphenol ("4-MeOPh"); 4
   ethoxyphenol ("4-EtOPh"); 2-ethoxyphenol; 4-propoxyphenol; imidazole; benzimidazole; N
   methyl       imidazole;         1-trifluoroacetylimidazole;        1,2,3-triazole;     1,2,4-triazole;       2
   trifluoromethylpyrazole;          3,5-bistrifluoromethylpyrazole;         3-trifluoromethylpyrazole,         2
   fluorophenol, 3-fluorophenol, 4-fluorophenol, 2-trifluoromethylphenol, 3-trifluoromethylphenol, 4
25 trifluoromethylphenol, and mixtures thereof.
            One exemplary combination of two nucleophilic amines and two non-aqueous liquids is
   shown in Figure 1B). The combination of mixtures of hydrophobic nucleophilic amines and non
   aqueous liquids can, in some embodiments, provide certain advantages as compared with solvents
   involving only a single hydrophobic amine and a single non-aqueous liquids (e.g., as described in
30 International Application No. PCT/US2011/050452 to Lail et al., filed September 3, 2011, which is
   incorporated herein by reference). In some embodiments, such mixed solvent systems are more
   desirable because they enable control over important solvent properties such as viscosity, heat
   capacity, reaction heat, water content, and/or may prevent formation of precipitates in some non
                                                        -20-

   blended formulations that affect the performance and cost-effectiveness of an acid gas removal
   process.
            Typically, the non-aqueous liquids used in this type of solvent system are active
   components of the solvent system (i.e., not serving only as diluents). Although the present solvent
 5 system is described as comprising one or more non-aqueous liquids, it is noted that, in a related
   embodiment, one or more of the non-aqueous liquids can be a diluent. Thus, the present disclosure
   also, in certain embodiments, relates to mixtures containing two or more nucleophilic amines and
   two or more components selected from the group consisting of non-aqueous liquids and diluents.
       III. Mixtures containing nucleophilic amine(s), non-nucleophilic nitrogenous base(s), and non
            aqueous liquid(s)
            In one aspect of the invention, solvent systems can comprise mixtures of one or more
   nucleophilic amines, one or more non-nucleophilic nitrogenous bases, and one or more non
 5 aqueous liquids. The properties of the solvents are altered in such formulations as compared to
   non-blended formulations and can advantageously be used to meet specific process requirements
   for gas treatment. In such an embodiment, the solvent system may react reversibly with carbon
   dioxide and other acid gases.
            In certain embodiments, nucleophilic amines that can be used in this type of solvent
 D formulation can be primary and/or secondary amines which have reactive nitrogen centers. A
   primary amine is understood to be a compound of the formula NH2R, where R can be a carbon
   containing group, including but not limited to CI-C 2 0 alkyl. A secondary amine is understood to be
   a compound of the formula NHR1 R2, wherein R1 and R 2 are independently carbon-containing
   groups, including but not limited to C1-C20 alkyl. One or more of the hydrogens on R, R 1, and R2
 5 may optionally be replaced with one or more substituents. For example, one or more of the
   hydrogens on R, R 1, or R2 may be replaced with optionally substituted C1 -C6 alkyl, optionally
   substituted Ci-C 6 alkoxy, optionally substituted C2-Cio alkenyl; optionally substituted C2-C 10
   alkynyl; optionally substituted alkylaryl; optionally substituted arylalkyl; optionally substituted
   aryloxy; optionally substituted heteroaryl; optionally substituted heterocycle; halo (e.g., Cl, F, Br,
30 and I); hydroxyl; halogenated alkyl (e.g., CF 3 , 2-Br-ethyl, CH2F, CH 2 CF3, and CF2 CF 3 );
   halogenated aryl; halogenated alkylaryl; halogenated benzyl; optionally substituted amino;
   optionally substituted alkylamino; optionally substituted arylamino; optionally substituted acyl;
   CN; NO2 ; N 3 ; CH2 OH; CONH 2 ; C1-C    3  alkylthio; sulfate; sulfonic acid; sulfonate esters (e.g.,
   methanesulfonyl); phosphonic acid; phosphate; phosphonate; mono-, di-, or triphosphate esters;
                                                    -21-

   trityl or monomethoxytrityl; CF 3 S; CF 3 SO2 ; or silyl (e.g., trimethylsilyl, dimethyl-t-butylsilyl, and
   diphenylmethylsilyl).
            In certain embodiments, primary or secondary amines may be selected from amines
   functionalized with fluorine-containing-alkyl-aromatic groups. In specific embodiments, the amine
 5 may be selected from the group consisting of 2-fluorophenethylamine, 3-fluorophenethylamine, 4
   fluorophenethylamine,       2-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,      3-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,       and 4
   fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,         2-fluorobenzylamine, 3-fluorobenzylamine,        4-fluorobenzylamine,
   4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9,10,10,11,11,11-heptadecafluoroundecylamine,         2,3-difluorobenzylamine, 2,4
   difluorobenzylamine,         2,6-     difluorobenzylamine,       3,4-     difluorobenzylamine       3,5-di
 0 fluorobenzylamine,           2-trifluormethylbenzylamine,          3-trifluormethylbenzylamine,          4
   trifluormethylbenzylamine,            D-4-fluoro-alpha-methylbenzylamine,          and   L-4-fluoro-alpha
   methylbenzylamine.
            In some embodiments, the nucleophilic amines that can be used in such solvent systems can
   comprise cyclic amines, diamines, primary and/or secondary alcoholamines.               Cyclic amines are
 5 amines wherein the nitrogen atom forms part of the ring structure, and may include, but are not
   limited to, aziridines, azetidines, pyrrolidines, piperidines, piperazines, pyridines, and pyrimidines.
   Cyclic amines may comprise one or more rings and may optionally be substituted with one or more
   substituents as listed above. In some embodiments, the nucleophilic amine may be a diamine. In
   some embodiments, the nucleophilic amine may be a primary or secondary alcoholamine.
 0 Alcoholamines are also known as amino alcohols and contain both an alcohol and amine group.
   The amine group of the alcoholamine may be any type of amine as disclosed herein.
            Generally, such compounds can react to form bonds with non-hydrogen atoms in acid gas
   components. These reactions may result in the formation of, for instance, carbamate salts, mixed
   carbamate salts, zwitterions, sulfamates, and/or sulfamic acids.              It is advantageous for the
25 nucleophilic amines to have low water content (e.g., < about 10 wt% water) and readily form a
   separate liquid phase when saturated with water. Exemplary nucleophilic amines for use in these
   types of solvent systems include, but are not limited to, alkyl fluoroaromatic amines such as 3
   fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,           4-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,         2-fluorophenethylamine,      3
   fluorophenethylamine, and 4-fluorophenethylamine.
30          The non-nucleophilic, nitrogenous base component(s) in this type of solvent system can
   vary. In certain embodiments, non-nucleophilic nitrogenous bases which have low water content
   (e.g., < about 20% water or < about 10 wt% water at 25 'C) are used, which will readily form a
   separate liquid-phase when combined with water.                Advantagouesly therefore, certain non
                                                       -22-

   nucleophilic, nitrogenous bases useful in such solvent systems can be hydrophobic and/or
   substantially immiscible with water, where "substantially immiscible with water" is as described
   elsewhere in the present application.      One exemplary type of non-nucleophilic nitrogenous base
   useful in this type of solvent system is a guanidine or substituted guanidine (e.g., a fluorinated
 5 guanidine).
            Guanidines are understood to be compounds of the structure RNC(NR1 R2) 2, wherein R, R 1 ,
   and R 2 are independently H or carbon-containing groups, including but not limited to CI-C      20 alkyl.
   One or more of the hydrogen atoms on R, R 1, and/or R 2 may optionally be replaced with one or
   more substituents.      For example, one or more of the hydrogens on R, R 1, R2 , and R3 may be
 0 replaced with optionally substituted CI-C 6 alkyl, optionally substituted CI-C 6 alkoxy, optionally
   substituted C2 -Cio alkenyl; optionally substituted C 2 -Cio alkynyl; optionally substituted alkylaryl;
   optionally substituted arylalkyl; optionally substituted aryloxy; optionally substituted heteroaryl;
   optionally substituted heterocycle; halo (e.g., Cl, F, Br, and I); hydroxyl; halogenated alkyl (e.g.,
   CF 3 , 2-Br-ethyl,    CH 2F,   CH 2CF 3, and CF 2CF 3); halogenated      aryl; halogenated    alkylaryl;
 5 halogenated benzyl; optionally substituted amino; optionally substituted alkylamino; optionally
   substituted arylamino; optionally substituted acyl; CN; NO 2; N3 ; CH 2OH; CONH 2; Ci-C 3 alkylthio;
   sulfate; sulfonic acid; sulfonate esters (e.g., methanesulfonyl); phosphonic acid; phosphate;
   phosphonate; mono-, di-, or triphosphate esters; trityl or monomethoxytrityl; CF 3S; CF 3SO 2 ; or
   silyl (e.g., trimethylsilyl, dimethyl-t-butylsilyl, and diphenylmethylsilyl).
 0          Another type of non-nucleophilic nitrogenous base that may be used in such solvent
   systems is an amidine, including but not limited to a carboxamidine/carboximidamide, which is
   understood to be a compound of the structure RC(=NH)NR 1 R 2, wherein R, R1 , and R2 are
   independently H or carbon-containing groups, including but not limited to CI-C        20 alkyl. One or
   more of the hydrogen atoms on R, R 1 , and/or R2 may optionally be replaced with one or more
25 substituents. For example, one or more of the hydrogens on R, R1 , R 2 , and R3 may be replaced with
   optionally substituted C 1 -C 6 alkyl, optionally substituted C 1-C6 alkoxy, optionally substituted C 2
   Cio alkenyl; optionally substituted C2 -Cio alkynyl; optionally substituted alkylaryl; optionally
   substituted arylalkyl; optionally substituted aryloxy; optionally substituted heteroaryl; optionally
   substituted heterocycle; halo (e.g., Cl, F, Br, and I); hydroxyl; halogenated alkyl (e.g., CF 3, 2-Br
30 ethyl, CH 2F, CH 2 CF 3, and CF 2CF3); halogenated aryl; halogenated alkylaryl; halogenated benzyl;
   optionally substituted amino; optionally substituted alkylamino; optionally substituted arylamino;
   optionally substituted acyl; CN; NO 2; N 3 ; CH 2OH; CONH 2 ; C1-C 3 alkylthio; sulfate; sulfonic acid;
   sulfonate esters (e.g., methanesulfonyl); phosphonic acid; phosphate; phosphonate; mono-, di-, or
                                                        -23-

    triphosphate esters; trityl or monomethoxytrityl; CF 3 S; CF 3 SO2 ; or silyl (e.g., trimethylsilyl,
    dimethyl-t-butylsilyl, and diphenylmethylsilyl).
             Exemplary     guanidines     and    amidines   include,   but   are   not limited     to,   1,1,3,3
    tetramethylguanidine      ("TMG");      N-tert-butyl-1,1,3,3-tetramethylguanidine,      diphenylguanidine,
 5  ditolylguanidine,             1,8-diazabicyclo(5.4.0)undec-7-ene,               1,1,3-trimethyl-3-(2,2,3,3
    tetrafluoropropyl)guanidine;         1,1,3-trimethyl-3-(2,2,3,3,3-pentafluoropropyl)guanidine;           1,3
    dimethyl-1,3-bis(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)guanidine;       1,3-bis(2,2,3,3-tetrafluoropropyl)guanidine;      1,3
    bis(4-fluorophenyl)guanidine; 1,3-bis(3-fluorophenyl)guanidine; 1,3-bis(2-fluorophenyl)guanidine;
    2-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)- 1,4,5,6,-tetrahydropyrimidine;            2-(2,2,3,3-tetrafluoropropyl)-1,4,5,6,
 0  tetrahydropyrimidine;        3,3,4,4-tetrafluoro-N,N-dimethylbutanimidamide;           3,3,3-trifluoro-N,N
    dimethylpropanimidamide; and mixtures thereof.            Other non-nucleophilic, nitrogenous bases can
     also be used as the non-nucleophilic, nitrogenous base component of such solvent systems, e.g.,
    including, but not limited to, tertiary amines (e.g., fluorinated tertiary amines).
             Advantageously, non-aqueous liquids used within the solvent systems described herein can
 5 'have low water content (e.g., < about 10 wt% water) and/or low water solubility.                  Exemplary
     classes of non-aqueous liquids that may be used according to this class of solvent systems include,
    but are not limited to the following: fluorinated alcohols; optionally substituted phenols; and
    nitrogen heterocycles. Particularly preferred according to this particular type of solvent system are
     fluorinated alcohols (e.g., a fluorinated alcohol with five or more carbons, preferably with low
 0  water content (e.g., < about 10 wt% water)). Fluorinated alcohols useful according to the present
     disclosure may comprise any compound having the formula R-OH, where R is an alkyl group (e.g.,
     C1-C10 alkyl, C1-C  8 alkyl, CI-C 6 alkyl, C2 -C1o alkyl, C2 -C8 alkyl, C2 -C6 alkyl, C3-C1o alkyl, C3 -C8
     alkyl, or C3 -C6 alkyl) and wherein one or more hydrogen atoms of the alkyl group is substituted
     with fluorine. In some embodiments, the number of hydrogen atoms replaced with fluorine can be
25   two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, or even more as may be deemed useful. In further
     embodiments, one or more of the hydrogen atoms of the alkyl group may optionally be replaced
     with one or more other substituents, including, but not limited to, C 1-C6 alkyl, Ci-C 6 alkoxy, and
     halo substituents.
             Optionally substituted phenols useful in the invention are understood to mean phenols
30   wherein one or more of the hydrogen atoms on the phenyl ring may be replaced with a substituent.
     Non-limiting, exemplary replacement groups for one or more of the hydrogen atoms on the phenyl
     ring include Ci-C6 alkyl, C1-C6 alkoxy, and halo. Nitrogen heterocycles are understood to mean
     any cyclic compound including at least one nitrogen atom in the ring structure (including but not
                                                         -24-

    limited to imidazoles, pyrazoles, and triazoles) and being optionally substituted such that one or
    more of the hydrogen atoms on the ring structure may be replaced with a substituent. In certain
    embodiments, at least one nitrogen atom in the ring structure has an acidic hydrogen atom with a
    pKa lower than about 15 (e.g., between about 8 and about 15).                 Non-limiting, exemplary
 5  replacement groups for one or more of the hydrogen atoms on the ring include C1-C6 alkyl, C 1-C6
    alkoxy, and halo.
            In some specific embodiments, the non-aqueous liquid is a relatively acidic component
    selected from the group consisting of: 2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5-octafluoropentanol           ("OFP"); 2,2,3,3
    tetrafluoropropanol ("TFP"); 2,2,3,3,3-pentafluoropropanol ("PFP"); 2,2,3,3,4,4-hexafluorobutanol
 0  ("HFB");       2,2,2-trifluoroethanol       ("TFE");     nonafluoro-1-hexanol;        4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7
    nonafluoroheptanol; 1,1,3,3 -hexafluoro-2-phenyl-2-propanol; 4-methoxyphenol ("4-MeOPh"); 4
    ethoxyphenol ("4-EtOPh"); 2-ethoxyphenol; 4-propoxyphenol; imidazole; benzimidazole; N
    methyl       imidazole;      1-trifluoroacetylimidazole;      1,2,3-triazole;     1,2,4-triazole;      2
    trifluoromethylpyrazole;       3,5-bistrifluoromethylpyrazole;       3-trifluoromethylpyrazole,        2
  5 fluorophenol, 3-fluorophenol, 4-fluorophenol, 2-trifluoromethylphenol, 3-trifluoromethylphenol, 4
    trifluoromethylphenol, and mixtures thereof. Typically, the non-aqueous liquids used in this type
    of solvent system are active components of the solvent system (i.e., not serving only as diluents).
             When reacted with an acid gas, such as carbon dioxide, a solvent comprising one or more
    nucleophilic amines, one or more non-nucleophilic, nitrogenous bases, and one or more protic non
 .0 aqueous liquids will form two products, as shown in Figure 1C). The product formed by reaction of
    the nucleophilic amine with carbon dioxide will be an amine carbamate salt. The reaction of the
    non-nucleophilic nitrogenous base and the protic non-aqueous liquid with carbon dioxide results in
    the formation of a carbonate ester. The solvent system therefore has a higher theoretical carbon
    dioxide loading than a pure nucleophilic amine solvent. Addition of the amine to the non
25  nucleophilic nitrogenous base solution improves the solvent system by significantly lowering the
    viscosity of the viscous ionic liquid. The addition of the nucleophilic amine to the non-nucleophilic
    nitrogenous base and protic non-aqueous liquid solvent system will improve the segregation of
    water from the non-nucleophilic nitrogenous base. The molar ratio of nucleophilic amine(s) to non
    nucleophilic nitrogenous base(s) can cover a broad range. Similarly, the molar ratio of nucleophilic
30  amine(s) to non-nucleophilic nitrogenous base(s) to protic non-aqueous liquid can also cover a
    broad range.
         IV. Neat, Hydrophobic, Nucleophilic Amine
                                                      -25-

            In another aspect of the invention, neat, hydrophobic, non-aqueous solvents can be
   provided.     Specifically, a neat solvent according to the invention can consist of a single
   nucleophilic amine. The term "neat" as used herein can mean that no other cosolvent is present in
   the solvent system, may mean that little to no other liquid is present in the solvent system (e.g.,
 5 including situations wherein the solvent system comprises a small amount of undesired water, e.g.,
   < about 10 wt %), or may mean that no other reactive component is present in the solvent system
   (i.e., which could react with the hydrophobic, nucleophilic amine, the acidic gas, or both). A neat
   hydrophobic nucleophilic amine can, in some embodiments, comprise a mixture of hydrophobic
   nucleophilic amines, but preferably comprises a single hydrophobic nucleophilic amine component.
 0 In some embodiments, a "neat" hydrophobic, nucleophilic amine solvent system consists of a neat
   hydrophobic nucleophilic amine and an acidic gas. Neat, hydrophobic nucleophilic amines can
   react with acid gas components such as CO2 and S02 to form amine carbamate salts, Zwitterionic
   sulfamic acids, and/or sulfate salts, and in certain embodiments, no additional diluent is required to
   prevent precipitate formation.
 5          One exemplary hydrophobic, nucleophilic amine suitable for this purpose is 3-fluoro-N
   methylbenzylamine, as shown in Figure 1D). However, the invention is not intended to be limiting,
   and other hydrophobic, nucleophilic amines capable of reacting in this way are intended to be
   encompassed by the present disclosure.
            For example, hydrophobic, nucleophilic amines that can be used to form certain exemplary
 0 neat solvent systems of this type can, in some embodiments, be primary and/or secondary amines
   which have reactive nitrogen centers. A primary amine is understood to be a compound of the
   formula NH 2R, where R can be a carbon-containing group, including but not limited to Ci-C 20
   alkyl. A secondary amine is understood to be a compound of the formula NHR1 R 2 , wherein R1 and
   R 2 are independently carbon-containing groups, including but not limited to C1-C     20 alkyl. One or
Z5 more of the hydrogens on R, R 1, and R 2 may optionally be replaced with one or more substituents.
   For example, one or more of the hydrogens on R, R 1, or R 2 may be replaced with optionally
   substituted C1-C6 alkyl, optionally substituted CI-C 6 alkoxy, optionally substituted C2 -C10 alkenyl;
   optionally substituted C 2-Cio alkynyl; optionally substituted alkylaryl; optionally substituted
   arylalkyl; optionally substituted aryloxy; optionally substituted heteroaryl; optionally substituted
30 heterocycle; halo (e.g., Cl, F, Br, and I); hydroxyl; halogenated alkyl (e.g., CF 3, 2-Br-ethyl, CH 2F,
   CH 2CF 3, and CF 2CF 3); halogenated aryl; halogenated alkylaryl; halogenated benzyl; optionally
   substituted amino; optionally substituted alkylamino; optionally substituted arylamino; optionally
   substituted acyl; CN; NO 2; N 3; CH 2OH; CONH 2 ; C1-C 3 alkylthio; sulfate; sulfonic acid; sulfonate
                                                     -26-

   esters (e.g.,    methanesulfonyl);      phosphonic acid;   phosphate; phosphonate;        mono-, di-, or
   triphosphate esters; trityl or monomethoxytrityl; CF3 S; CF 3 SO 2 ; or silyl (e.g., trimethylsilyl,
   dimethyl-t-butylsilyl, and diphenylmethylsilyl).
           In certain embodiments, primary or secondary amines may be selected from amines
 5 functionalized with fluorine-containing-alkyl-aromatic groups. In specific embodiments, the amine
   may be selected from the group consisting of 2-fluorophenethylamine, 3-fluorophenethylamine, 4
   fluorophenethylamine,       2-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,      3-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,       and 4
   fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,         2-fluorobenzylamine,   3-fluorobenzylamine, 4-fluorobenzylamine,
   4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9,10,10,11,11,11-heptadecafluoroundecylamine,         2,3-difluorobenzylamine, 2,4
 0 difluorobenzylamine,         2,6-     difluorobenzylamine,      3,4-      difluorobenzylamine       3,5-di
   fluorobenzylamine,           2-trifluonnethylbenzylamine,          3-trifluormethylbenzylamine,          4
   trifluormethylbenzylamine,            D-4-fluoro-alpha-methylbenzylamine,         and    L-4-fluoro-alpha
   methylbenzylamine.
           In some embodiments, the hydrophobic, nucleophilic amines that can be used in such
 5 solvent systems can comprise cyclic amines, diamines, primary and/or secondary alcoholamines.
   Cyclic amines are amines wherein the nitrogen atom forms part of the ring structure, and may
   include, but are not limited to, aziridines, azetidines, pyrrolidines, piperidines, piperazines,
   pyridines, and pyrimidines. Cyclic amines may comprise one or more rings and may optionally be
   substituted with one or more substituents as listed above. In some embodiments, the nucleophilic
 D amine may be a diamine. In some embodiments, the nucleophilic amine may be a primary or
   secondary alcoholamine.       Alcoholamines are also known as amino alcohols and contain both an
   alcohol and amine group.        The amine group of the alcoholamine may be any type of amine as
   disclosed herein. Notably, to function as a neat hydrophobic amine solvent, some nucleophilic
   amines (e.g., cyclic amines) are preferably functionalized with fluorine-containing groups.
.5         The neat hydrophobic nucleophilic amine solvent preferably has a low water content (e.g., <
   about 10 wt %) and forms a separate liquid phase with water. There are several advantages to a
   non-aqueous solvent process for acid-gas removal by utilization of a neat hydrophobic amine
   solvent. First, the low heat capacity of the neat amine solvent significantly reduces the sensible
   heat requirement of the solvent. Second, treatment of process water that has come in contact with
 0 the solvent will be simplified due to the reduction in the number of components in the solvent
   mixture.    A relatively small set of secondary amines do not require diluents to avoid precipitate
   formation upon reaction with acid gases (neat nucleophilic amines). Of this small set, many are not
   suitable for treatment of industrial acid-gas containing gas streams due to miscibility with water.
                                                       -27-

   Since many of the industrial acid-gas containing gas streams (e.g., combustion flue gases, cement
   kiln gases, natural gas, synthesis gases, etc.) may contain high concentrations of water (typically
   about 2-30 vol%), neat secondary amines having water miscibility will strip water from the gas
   stream, thus creating a mixture with the water. To avoid this mixture formation, the neat secondary
 5 amine is advantageously selected such that it has very low water miscibility. As a result, in such
   embodiments, the solvent of the acid gas removal process can be considered to consist of or consist
   essentially of a single component.
       V. Mixtures containing nucleophilic amine(s) and non-nucleophilic nitrogenous bases)
 0
           In another aspect of the invention, acid gas components (e.g., carbon dioxide), can be
   separated from gas mixtures using a combination of one or more nucleophilic amines and one or
   more non-nucleophilic nitrogenous bases. In some embodiment, no diluents are contained in such
   solvent systems (e.g., a "neat" mixture of nucleophilic amine(s) and non-nucleophilic nitrogenous
 5 bases is provided). However, embodiments with one or more added diluents are also encompassed
   within this class of solvent systems.   Preferably, solvent systems comprising a nucleophilic amine
   and non-nucleophilic nitrogenous base comprise a mixture of a hydrophobic nucleophilic amine
   and a hydrophobic, non-nucleophilic nitrogenous base with a total water content of less than 10
   wt%.
 0         Nucleophilic amines that can be used to form certain exemplary solvent systems of this type
   can be primary and/or secondary amines which have reactive nitrogen centers. A primary amine is
   understood to be a compound of the formula NH 2R, where R can be a carbon-containing group,
   including but not limited to CI-C 20 alkyl. A secondary amine is understood to be a compound of
   the formula NHR 1 R 2, wherein R 1 and R 2 are independently carbon-containing groups, including but
25 not limited to CI-C 2 0 alkyl. One or more of the hydrogens on R, R 1, and R 2 may optionally be
   replaced with one or more substituents. For example, one or more of the hydrogens on R, R 1, or R 2
   may be replaced with optionally substituted C-C          6 alkyl, optionally substituted C-C   6 alkoxy,
   optionally substituted C2 -Cio alkenyl; optionally substituted C 2 -Cio alkynyl; optionally substituted
   alkylaryl; optionally substituted arylalkyl; optionally substituted aryloxy; optionally substituted
30 heteroaryl; optionally substituted heterocycle; halo (e.g., Cl, F, Br, and I); hydroxyl; halogenated
   alkyl (e.g., CF 3, 2-Br-ethyl, CH 2F, CH 2 CF 3, and CF 2CF 3); halogenated aryl; halogenated alkylaryl;
   halogenated benzyl; optionally substituted amino; optionally substituted alkylamino; optionally
   substituted arylamino; optionally substituted acyl; CN; NO 2 ; N3 ; CH 2OH; CONH 2 ; C-C     3 alkylthio;
   sulfate; sulfonic acid; sulfonate esters (e.g., methanesulfonyl); phosphonic acid; phosphate;
                                                       -28-

   phosphonate; mono-, di-, or triphosphate esters; trityl or monomethoxytrityl; CF 3 S; CF 3 SO2 ; or
   silyl (e.g., trimethylsilyl, dimethyl-t-butylsilyl, and diphenylmethylsilyl).
            In certain embodiments, primary or secondary amines may be selected from amines
   functionalized with fluorine-containing-alkyl-aromatic groups. In specific embodiments, the amine
 5 may be selected from the group consisting of 2-fluorophenethylamine, 3-fluorophenethylamine, 4
   fluorophenethylamine,       2-fluoro-V-methylbenzylamine,      3-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,       and 4
   fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,         2-fluorobenzylamine,   3-fluorobenzylamine,      4-fluorobenzylamine,
   4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9,10,10,11,11,11-heptadecafluoroundecylamine, 2,3-difluorobenzylamine, 2,4
   difluorobenzylamine,          2,6-       difluorobenzylamine,       3,4-difluorobenzylamine         3,5-di
 0 fluorobenzylamine,           2-trifluormethylbenzylamine,          3 -trifluormethylbenzylamine,         4
   trifluormethylbenzylanine,            D-4-fluoro-alpha-methylbenzylamine,         and    L-4-fluoro-alpha
   methylbenzylamine.
            In some embodiments, the nucleophilic amines that can be used in such solvent systems can
   comprise cyclic amines, diamines, primary and/or secondary alcoholamines.               Cyclic amines are
 5 amines wherein the nitrogen atom forms part of the ring structure, and may include, but are not
   limited to, aziridines, azetidines, pyrrolidines, piperidines, piperazines, pyridines, and pyrimidines.
   Cyclic amines may comprise one or more rings and may optionally be substituted with one or more
   substituents as listed above. In some embodiments, the nitrogenous base may be a diamine. In
   some embodiments, the nitrogenous base may be a primary or secondary alcoholamine.
 0 Alcoholamines are also known as amino alcohols and contain both an alcohol and amine group.
   The amine group of the alcoholamine may be any type of amine as disclosed herein.
            The non-nucleophilic, nitrogenous base component(s) in this type of solvent system can
   vary. In certain embodiments, non-nucleophilic nitrogenous bases which have low water content
   (e.g., < about 20% water or < about 10 wt% water at 25 'C) are used, which will readily form a
25 separate liquid-phase when combined with water.               Advantagouesly therefore, certain non
   nucleophilic, nitrogenous bases useful in such solvent systems can be hydrophobic and/or
   substantially immiscible with water, where "substantially immiscible with water" is as described
   elsewhere in the present application. Exemplary types of non-nucleophilic nitrogenous base useful
   in this type of solvent system are guanidines or substituted guanidines (e.g.,                  fluorinated
30 guanidines), amidines (e.g., fluorinated amidines), or tertiary amines (e.g., fluorinated tertiary
   amines).
            Guanidines are understood to be compounds of the structure RNC(NRR 2) 2, wherein R, R 1,
   and R2 are independently H or carbon-containing groups, including but not limited to CI-C 2 0 alkyl.
                                                        -29-

   One or more of the hydrogen atoms on R, R1 , and/or R2 may optionally be replaced with one or
   more substituents.     For example, one or more of the hydrogens on R, R 1, R2 , and R3 may be
   replaced with optionally substituted CI-C 6 alkyl, optionally substituted CI-C 6 alkoxy, optionally
   substituted C 2 -C10 alkenyl; optionally substituted C 2-Cio alkynyl; optionally substituted alkylaryl;
 5 optionally substituted arylalkyl; optionally substituted aryloxy; optionally substituted heteroaryl;
   optionally substituted heterocycle; halo (e.g., Cl, F, Br, and I); hydroxyl; halogenated alkyl (e.g.,
   CF 3 , 2-Br-ethyl,    CH 2F, CH 2CF 3 , and CF 2CF 3); halogenated aryl; halogenated              alkylaryl;
   halogenated benzyl; optionally substituted amino; optionally substituted alkylamino; optionally
   substituted arylamino; optionally substituted acyl; CN; NO 2 ; N 3 ; CH 2OH; CONH 2 ; Ci-C 3 alkylthio;
 0 sulfate; sulfonic acid; sulfonate esters (e.g., methanesulfonyl); phosphonic acid; phosphate;
   phosphonate; mono-, di-, or triphosphate esters; trityl or monomethoxytrityl; CF 3 S; CF 3SO 2; or
   silyl (e.g., trimethylsilyl, dimethyl-t-butylsilyl, and diphenylmethylsilyl).
            Amidines include, but are not limited to a carboxamidine/carboximidamide, which is
   understood to be a compound of the structure RC(=NH)NR1 R 2, wherein R, R 1, and R2 are
 5 independently H or carbon-containing groups, including but not limited to C 1-C 20 alkyl. One or
   more of the hydrogen atoms on R, R 1, and/or R 2 may optionally be replaced with one or more
   substituents. For example, one or more of the hydrogens on R, R1 , R 2, and R 3 may be replaced with
   optionally substituted C1 -C6 alkyl, optionally substituted C1-C 6 alkoxy, optionally substituted C2
   C10 alkenyl; optionally substituted C2 -Cio alkynyl; optionally substituted alkylaryl; optionally
 0 substituted arylalkyl; optionally substituted aryloxy; optionally substituted heteroaryl; optionally
   substituted heterocycle; halo (e.g., Cl, F, Br, and I); hydroxyl; halogenated alkyl (e.g., CF 3, 2-Br
   ethyl, CH 2F, CH 2CF 3, and CF 2CF 3); halogenated aryl; halogenated alkylaryl; halogenated benzyl;
   optionally substituted amino; optionally substituted alkylamino; optionally substituted arylamino;
   optionally substituted acyl; CN; NO 2 ; N 3 ; CH 2OH; CONH 2; C1-C 3 alkylthio; sulfate; sulfonic acid;
Z5 sulfonate esters (e.g., methanesulfonyl); phosphonic acid; phosphate; phosphonate; mono-, di-, or
   triphosphate esters; trityl or monomethoxytrityl; CF 3 S; CF 3SO 2 ; or silyl (e.g., trimethylsilyl,
   dimethyl-t-butylsilyl, and diphenylmethylsilyl).
            Exemplary     guanidines     and    amidines    include, but     are not    limited to,     1,1,3,3
   tetramethylguanidine       ("TMG");     N-tert-butyl-1,1,3,3-tetramethylguanidine,       diphenylguanidine,
W0 ditolylguanidine,              1,8-diazabicyclo(5.4.0)undec-7-ene,               1,1,3-trimethyl-3-(2,2,3,3
   tetrafluoropropyl)guanidine;          1,1,3-trimethyl-3-(2,2,3,3,3-pentafluoropropyl)guanidine;          1,3
   dimethyl- 1,3 -bis(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)guanidine;      1,3-bis(2,2,3,3-tetrafluoropropyl)guanidine;     1,3
   bis(4-fluorophenyl)guanidine; 1,3-bis(3-fluorophenyl)guanidine; 1,3-bis(2-fluorophenyl)guanidine;
                                                        -30-

   2-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)- 1,4,5,6,-tetrahydropyrimidine;        2-(2,2,3,3-tetrafluoropropyl)-1,4,5,6,
   tetrahydropyrimidine;       3,3,4,4-tetrafluoro-N,N-dimethylbutanimidamide;        3,3,3-trifluoro-N,N
   dimethylpropanimidamide; and mixtures thereof
           A tertiary amine is understood to be a compound of the formula NR1 R 2R 3, wherein R 1, R 2,
 5 and R 3 are independently carbon-containing groups, including but not limited to C1-C 2 0 alkyl. One
   or more of the hydrogens on R, R 1, R 2 , and R 3 may optionally be replaced with one or more
   substituents. For example, one or more of the hydrogens on R, R 1, R 2 , and R 3 may be replaced with
   optionally substituted CI-C 6 alkyl, optionally substituted C1-C6 alkoxy, optionally substituted C2
   C10 alkenyl; optionally substituted C2 -Cio alkynyl; optionally substituted alkylaryl; optionally
 0 substituted arylalkyl; optionally substituted aryloxy; optionally substituted heteroaryl; optionally
   substituted heterocycle; halo (e.g., Cl, F, Br, and I); hydroxyl; halogenated alkyl (e.g., CF 3, 2-Br
   ethyl, CH 2F, CH 2CF 3, and CF 2CF 3); halogenated aryl; halogenated alkylaryl; halogenated benzyl;
   optionally substituted amino; optionally substituted alkylamino; optionally substituted arylamino;
   optionally substituted acyl; CN; NO 2 ; N 3 ; CH 2OH; CONH 2; C1-C 3 alkylthio; sulfate; sulfonic acid;
 5 sulfonate esters (e.g., methanesulfonyl); phosphonic acid; phosphate; phosphonate; mono-, di-, or
   triphosphate esters; trityl or monomethoxytrityl; CF 3 S; CF 3 SO2 ; or silyl (e.g., trimethylsilyl,
   dimethyl-t-butylsilyl, and diphenylmethylsilyl).
           Certain exemplary formulations include, but are not limited to, one or more primary and/or
   secondary amines, including alkyl fluoroaromatic amines such as 3-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine,
 0 4-fluoro-N\-methylbenzylamine,         2-fluorophenethylamine,   3-fluorophenethylamine,        and    4
   fluorophenethylamine used in combination with one or more tertiary amines (e.g., fluorinated
   tertiary amines), guanidines (e.g., fluorinated guanidines), and/or amidines (e.g., fluorinated
   amidines).
           In some specific embodiments, this type of solvent system can consist of a secondary amine
25 and guanidine as shown in Figure 1E). In certain embodiments, the formulated solvent (i.e., a
   mixture containing nucleophilic amine(s) and non-nucleophilic nitrogenous base(s)) reacts with
   carbon dioxide to form a carbamate salt (e.g., a mixed carbamate salt). In the reaction product, the
   nucleophilic amine component forms a carbon-nitrogen bond with CO 2 (or another acid gas) and
   the non-nucleophilic amine component forms a bond with a hydrogen nucleus (proton). The
30 structure of the product formed is a mixed amine carbamate salt. The molar ratio of non
   nucleophilic amine(s) to nucleophilic amine(s) can cover a broad range.               The mixture of
   nucleophilic with non-nucleophilic bases may improve the kinetics of carbon dioxide absorption
   and increase the carbon dioxide loading at a given temperature (carbon-dioxide vapor-liquid
                                                      -31-

  equilibrium) due to improved thermodynamics. Compared to a conventional CO 2 capture from a
  solution utilizing a single nucleophilic amine, the mixed solvent in certain embodiments will absorb
  more CO 2 at slightly higher temperatures, making the solvent preferable for separation of CO 2 from
  gas streams in certain temperature ranges.
5         Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to
  mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings
  presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings.           Therefore, it is to be
  understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that
  modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended
0 claims. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive
  sense only and not for purposes of limitation.
           This application is a divisional application from Australian application 2013225757. The
  full disclosure of AU2013225757 is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                     -32-

   CLAIMS
            1.      A solvent system comprising a solution formed of:
            an ionic liquid consisting of a nucleophilic amine and a protic, non-aqueous liquid, wherein
    the ionic liquid reacts with an acidic gas so as to form an ionic solution comprising: 1) a carbamate
 5  salt, Zwitterionic sulfamic acid, sulfate salt, or a combination thereof; and 2) a protonated weak
    acid.
            2.      A solvent system comprising a solution formed of:
            a mixture of two or more nucleophilic amines and two or more non-aqueous liquids,
 0  wherein one or more of the nucleophilic amines have structures such that they react with an acidic
    gas so as to form one or more of a carbamate salt, a mixed carbamate, salt, a Zwitterionic sulfamic
    acid, and a sulfate salt.
            3.      A solvent system comprising a solution formed of:
 5          a nucleophilic amine; a non-nucleophilic, nitrogenous base; and a non-aqueous liquid,
    wherein the nucleophilic amine has a structure such that it reacts with an acidic gas so as to form a
    carbamate salt, a mixed carbamate salt, a sulfamic acid, a sulfamate, or a sulfate salt, and wherein
    the non-nucleophilic, nitrogenous base and non-aqueous liquid react to form a mixed carbamate
    salt, a carbonate ester or a heteroatom analogue of a carbonate ester.
 0
            4.      A solvent system consisting of:
            a neat nucleophilic amine with a structure such that it reacts with an acidic gas so as to form
   an amine carbamate salt, Zwitterionic sulfamic acid, sulfate salt, or mixture thereof
25          5.      A solvent system comprising a solution formed of:
            a mixture of one or more nucleophilic amines and one or more non-nucleophilic,
   nitrogenous bases with structures such that they react with an acidic gas so as to form carbamates,
   mixed carbamates, sulfamic acids, sulfate salts, or a mixture thereof
30          6.      The solvent system of any of claims 1-5 wherein the nucleophilic amine is
   hydrophobic.
                                                      -33-

            7.     The solvent system of claim 3 or claim 5, wherein the non-nucleophilic, nitrogenous
   base is hydrophobic or substantially immiscible with water.
            8.     The solvent system of any of claims 1-5, wherein the solvent system is substantially
 5 immiscible with water.
            9.     The solvent system of any of claims 1-5, wherein the solvent system has a solubility
   with water of less than about 20 g of solvent per 100 mL of water.
 0          10.    The solvent system of any of claims 1-5, wherein the acidic gas comprises C0 2,
   S02, COS, CS 2 , NOx, or a combination thereof
            11.    The solvent system of any of claims 1-5, wherein the acidic gas comprises CO 2 or
   S02.
 5
            12.    The solvent system of claim 1, wherein the nucleophilic amine is selected from the
   group consisting of: a primary amine, a secondary amine, a diamine, a triamine, a tetraamine, a
   pentamine, a cyclic amine, a cyclic diamine, an amine oligomer, a polyamine, an alcoholamine, and
   mixtures thereof.
 0
            13.   The solvent system of claim 1, wherein the protic non-aqueous liquid is a liquid
   having a pKa of about 8 to about 15.
            14.   The solvent system of claim 1, wherein the protic non-aqueous liquid is selected
25 from the group consisting of: a fluorinated alcohol, an optionally substituted phenol; a nitrogen
   heterocycle, and mixtures thereof.
            15.   The solvent system of claim 1, wherein the protic non-aqueous liquid is selected
   from the group consisting of: 2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5-octafluoropentanol; 2,2,3,3-tetrafluoropropanol;
30 2,2,3,3,3-pentafluoropropanol; 2,2,3,3,4,4-hexafluorobutanol; 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol; nonafluoro-1
   hexanol; 4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-nonafluoroheptanol; 1,1,3,3-hexafluoro-2-phenyl-2-propanol; 4
   methoxyphenol; 4-ethoxyphenol; 2-ethoxyphenol; 4-propoxyphenol; imidazole; benzimidazole; N
   methyl imidazole; 1-trifluoroacetylimidazole; 1,2,3-triazole; 1,2,4-triazole; 2
   trifluoromethylpyrazole; 3,5-bistrifluoromethylpyrazole; 3-trifluoromethylpyrazole, 2
                                                    -34-

   fluorophenol, 3-fluorophenol, 4-fluorophenol, 2-trifluoromethylphenol, 3-trifluoromethylphenol, 4
   trifluoromethylphenol, and mixtures thereof
            16.   The solvent system of claim 3, wherein the nucleophilic amine is selected from the
 5 group consisting of 3-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine, 4-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine, 2
   fluorophenethylamine, 3-fluorophenethylamine, 4-fluorophenethylamine, and mixtures thereof.
            17.   The solvent system of claim 3, wherein the non-nucleophilic nitrogenous base is a
   guanidine or substituted guanidine.
 0
            18.   The solvent system of claim 3, wherein the protic non-aqueous liquid is a fluorinated
   alcohol with five or more carbons.
            19.   The solvent system of claim 4, wherein the nucleophilic amine is 3-fluoro-N
 5 methylbenzylamine.
           20.    The solvent system of claim 5, wherein the one or more nucleophilic amines
   comprise primary or secondary amines and wherein the one or more non-nucleophilic, nitrogenous
   bases comprise tertiary amines, amidines, and/or guanidines.
 0
           21.    The solvent system of claim 20, wherein one or more of the primary amines,
   secondary amines, tertiary amines, guanidines, and amidines are fluorinated.
           22.    The solvent system of claim 20, wherein the primary or secondary amines are
25 selected from the group consisting of 3-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine, 4-fluoro-N
   methylbenzylamine, 2-fluorophenethylamine, 3 -fluorophenethylamine, and 4
   fluorophenethylamine.
           23.    The solvent system of claim 2, wherein the two or more nucleophilic amines are
30 alkyl fluoroaromatic amines.
           24.    The solvent system of claim 23, wherein the alkyl fluoroaromatic amines are
   selected from the group consisting of 3-fluoro-N-methylbenzylamine, 4-fluoro-N
                                                   -35-

  methylbenzylamine, 2-fluorophenethylamine, 3-fluorophenethylamine, and 4
   fluorophenethylamine.
           25.    The solvent system of claim 23, wherein the two or more non-aqueous liquids are
5  selected from the group consisting of 2 ,2 ,3,3,4,4,5,5-octafluoropentanol, 3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6
  hexafluorobutanol, and 4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-nonafluoroheptanol.
           26.    A process for the removal of acid gas from a gas stream, comprising contacting an
  acid gas-containing gas stream with any of the solvent systems of claims 1-24.
0
           27.    The process of claim 26, further comprising withdrawing an acid gas-rich solvent
  and an acid gas-lean gas stream.
           28.    The process of claim 26, further comprising regenerating the acid gas-rich solvent
5 by applying heat to form a regenerated solvent comprising a lower content of acid gas than present
  in the acid gas-rich solvent.
           29.    The process of claim 28, wherein the heat applied by the regeneration component is
  derived from a source selected from the group consisting of low-pressure steam, hot flue gas, or a
0 combination thereof
           30.    The process of claim 26, wherein the gas-containing stream is a mixed gas stream
  comprising CO 2 , SO2 , COS, CS 2 , NO, or a combination thereof
5          31.    The process of claim 26, wherein the solvent system tolerates water up to or equal to
  about 20% water by volume with no degradation of solvent performance.
                                                     -36-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
