ABSTRACT
        This invention provides novel guanylate cyclase C (GC-C) agonists and their
therapeutic use. The agonists may be used either alone or in combination with one or more
additional agents.

                AGONISTS OF GUANYLATE CYCLASE AND THEIR USES
                                  RELATED APPLICATIONS
         This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014235215. Australian
Patent Application No. 2014235215 is related to International Patent Application No.
PCT/US2014/025207, filed on 13 March 2014 and claims priority to U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/790,266, filed on March 15, 2013 and the U.S. Provisional Application
No. 61/826,749, filed on May 23, 2013. All of the above applications are herein incorporated
by reference in their entirety.
              INCORPORATION-BY-REFERENCE OF SEQUENCE LISTING
         The contents of the text file named "40737-514001WOST25.txt", which was created
on March 4, 2014 and is 55 KB in size, are hereby incorporated by reference in their
entireties.
                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         The present invention relates to novel guanylate cyclase C (GC-C) agonists and their
therapeutic use. The agonists may be used either alone or in combination with one or more
additional agents.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
         Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common chronic disorder of the intestine that
affects 20 to 60 million individuals in the US alone (Lehman Brothers, Global Healthcare
Irritable Bowel Syndrome Industry Update, September 1999). IBS is the most common
disorder diagnosed by gastroenterologists (28% of patients examined) and accounts for 12%
of visits to primary care physicians (Camilleri 2001 Gastroenterology 120:652-668).
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a group of metabolic diseases characterized by hyperglycemia,
resulting from defects in insulin secretion, insulin action, or both. The chronic hyperglycemia
of diabetes is associated with long-term damage, dysfunction, and failure of various organs,
especially the eyes, kidneys, nerves, heart, and blood vessels. Well
                                                  1

   known risk factors of type 2 DM are family history, obesity, age, race, prediabetes [impaired
   fasting glucose (IFG) and/or impaired glucose tolerance (IGT)], gestational DM, and
   polycystic ovarian syndrome. An association between insulin resistance and inflammation
   has been reported. Data also indicated a correlation that prediabetes was common in patients
 5 with IBS, which suggested that the chronic inflammation process might be responsible for the
   progression to DM.
            Hypercholesterolemia has been recognized as a major risk factor for coronary heart
   disease (CHD). In clinical trials, reducing serum LDL cholesterol has been demonstrated to
   decrease the incidence of CHD and to reverse atherosclerotic lesions. Two main classes of
10 clinically useful hypocholesterolemic agents are the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A
   (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (e.g., statins) and the bile acid sequestrants. Both induce
   hepatic LDL receptor activity by increasing hepatic cholesterol demand. Because the major
   determinant of serum cholesterol level is hepatic LDL receptor activity (38), these agents
   may share a common mechanism leading to reduction in serum cholesterol.
15          The guanylate cyclase-C (GC-C) receptor (reviewed by Lucas et al. 2000 Pharmacol.
   Rev 52:375-414 and Vaandrager et al. 2002 Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry 230:73-83)
   is a key regulator in mammals of intestinal function (although low levels of GC-C have been
   detected in other tissues). GC-C responds to the endogenous hormones, guanylin and
   uroguanylin, and to enteric bacterial polypeptides from the heat stable enterotoxin family (ST
20 polypeptides). When an agonist binds to GC-C, there is an elevation of the second messenger,
   cyclic GMP, and an increase in chloride and bicarbonate secretion, resulting in an increase in
   intestinal fluid secretion.
            Given the prevalence of diseases associated with GI inflammation,
   hypercholesterolemia, obesity and inflammatory conditions, there exists a need to develop
25 compositions and methods for effective treatment.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention provides novel peptides.
            The present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition that includes a
30 peptide described herein in a therapeutically effective amount and a pharmaceutical carrier,
   excipient or diluent.
            In some embodiments, the peptide increases cGMP production in a cell.
                                                   2

           In some embodiments, the peptide is a bicyclic peptide.
           The present invention also provides a composition that includes an inert carrier coated
   with peptides of the invention and an enteric coating that releases the peptide at pH5.0 or
   pH7.0. The inert carrier includes, for example, a selected from mannitol, lactose, a
 5 microcrystalline cellulose or starch.
           The present invention further provides a method for treating a condition that responds
   to enhanced cGMP levels in a subject by administering to the subject a therapeutically
   effective amount of a peptide of the invention, and the peptide is administered in an amount
   sufficient to increase water transport in the gastrointestinal tract and induce cGMP production
10 in a gastrointestinal epithelial cell.
           The present invention further provides a method for preventing or treating a condition
   that includes, for example, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, irritable bowel syndrome
   (IBS), non-ulcer dyspepsia, chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction, functional dyspepsia,
   colonic pseudo-obstruction, duodenogastric reflux, constipation, chronic constipation,
15 constipation associated with use of opiate pain killers, post-surgical constipation, constipation
   associated with neuropathic disorders, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), Celiac
   disease, gastroparesis, heartburn, poor gastrointestinal motility, congestive heart failure,
   hypertension, benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), colon cancer, lung cancer, bladder cancer,
   liver cancer, salivary gland cancer or skin cancer, bronchitis, tissue inflammation, organ
20 inflammation, respiratory inflammation, asthma, COPD, lipid metabolism disorders, biliary
   disorders, cardiovascular disease, obesity or an endocrine disorder, by administering to a
   subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a peptide of the invention.
           The present invention further provides a method of colonic cleansing by
   administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a peptide of the invention.
25 The method may further include a step of administering to the subject an effective amount of
   L-glucose, lubiprostone (Amitiza), prucalopride, an agent for treating chronic constipation, or
   any combination thereof.
           The present invention further provides a method of increasing cGMP production in a
   cell by contacting the cell with a peptide of the invention.
30         The present invention provides a use of a peptide described herein in the manufacture
   of a medicament for the treatment of a human disease.
           Any methods and uses described herein may further include a step of administering a
   therapeutically effective amount of a cGMP-dependent phosphodiesterase inhibitor. The
                                                    3

cGMP-dependent phosphodiesterase inhibitor is administered either concurrently or
sequentially with the peptide. The cGMP-dependent phosphodiesterase inhibitor includes,
for example, sulindac sulfone, zaprinast, motapizone, vardenafil, and sildenafil.
         Any methods and uses described herein may further include a step of administering a
therapeutically effective amount of at least one anti-inflammatory agent. The anti
inflammatory agent is a steroid or nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID).
         The peptide of the invention may have the sequence of any one of Table 1.
         In some embodiments, the peptide is Asn -ASP2 -Aad3 -Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu6 -Cys 7 -Val8
Asn 9-Val 1 0 -Ala"-Cys1 2-Thr 13 -Gly 4 -Cys 15 -Leu 16 (SEQ ID NO: 1), Asn1 -Asp 2 -Aad 3-Cys        4
Glu5 -Leu 6-Cys -Val8-Asn9-Val -Ala"1 -Cys 12 -Thr 3-Gly 4-Cys -Ser              (SEQ ID NO: 32),
        1                                                                           3     14              1
Asn -Asp2 -Aad3 -Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu6 -Cys 7 -Val8 -Asn 9-Val     0-Ala" -Cys 12
                                                                              -Thr"-Gly    4-Cys 1 5 -Thr 6
                             1 2                      5      6                 9      0      1        2
(SEQ ID NO: 119), Asn -Asp -Aad3 -Cys 4 -Glu5 -Leu -Cys 7 -Val 8-Asn9-Val0-Ala -Cys12_
Thr13 -Gly 14-Cys 1 Tyr1 6 (SEQ ID NO: 120), dAsn-AsP2-Aad3-Cys4-Glu5-Leu6-Cys-Val 8
Asn 9-Val 1 0 -Ala"-Cys1 2-Thr 13 -Gly1 4 -Cys 15 -dLeu1 6 (SEQ ID NO: 17), or pyGlul-Asp 2 -Aad 3
Cys4 -Glu5 -Leu 6 -Cys 7-Val8-Asn9-Val0-Ala"-Cys1 -Thr -Gly 4-Cys-Leu                   (SEQ ID NO:
56).
         Definitions of the specific embodiments of the invention as claimed herein follow.
        According to a first embodiment of the invention, there is provided a peptide
consisting of the sequence of any one of SEQ ID NOs: 1-38, 50-94, 119, and 120.
         According to a second embodiment of the invention, there is provided a
pharmaceutical composition comprising the peptide of the first embodiment in a
therapeutically effective amount and a pharmaceutical carrier, excipient or diluent.
         According to a third embodiment of the invention, there is provided a composition
comprising an inert carrier coated with peptide of the first embodiment and an enteric coating
that releases the peptide at pH5.0 or pH7.0.
         According to a fourth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method for
treating a condition that responds to enhanced cGMP levels in a patient comprising
administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of a peptide of the first
embodiment, wherein said peptide is administered in an amount sufficient to increase water
transport in the gastrointestinal tract and induce cGMP production in a gastrointestinal
epithelial cell.
         According to a fifth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method for
preventing or treating a condition selected from the group consisting of ulcerative colitis,
Crohn's disease, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction,
                                                      4

colonic pseudo-obstruction, duodenogastric reflux, constipation, chronic constipation,
constipation associated with use of opiate pain killers, post-surgical constipation, constipation
associated with neuropathic disorders, Celiac disease, gastroparesis, and poor gastrointestinal
motility, comprising administering to a patient in need thereof a therapeutically effective
amount of a peptide of the first embodiment.
        According to the sixth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method of
colonic cleansing, comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount
of a peptide of the first embodiment.
        According to a seventh embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method of
increasing cGMP production in a cell comprising contacting said cell with a peptide of the
first embodiment.
        According to an eighth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a use of a
peptide of the first embodiment in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a
condition selected from the group consisting of ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, irritable
bowel syndrome (IBS), chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction, colonic pseudo-obstruction,
duodenogastric reflux, constipation, chronic constipation, constipation associated with use of
opiate pain killers, post-surgical constipation, constipation associated with neuropathic
disorders, Celiac disease, gastroparesis, and poor gastrointestinal motility.
        According to a ninth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a use of a peptide
of the first embodiment in the manufacture of a medicament for colonic cleansing.
         The term 'comprise' and variants of the term such as 'comprises' or 'comprising' are
used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but not to exclude any
other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an exclusive interpretation
of the term is required.
        Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the
disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
        Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from and are
encompassed by the following detailed description and claims.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        Figure 1 is a graph showing the stimulation of cyclic GMP synthesis by SP-304 and
SP-304 with a-aminoadipic acid in the 3 rd position from the N-terminus.
                                                 4a

                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        The present invention is based upon the development of novel agonists of guanylate
cyclase-C (GC-C). The agonists are plecanatide derivatives, analogs of uroguanylin,
guanylin, lymphoguanylin and ST peptide and have superior properties such as higher
activity or potency. Particularly, these analogs contain an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad),
preferably at the 3'd position from the N-terminus of each peptide or at the position to the N
terminal side next to the first cysteine ("Cys") residue.
        The gualylate cyclase-C agonists according to the invention include amino acid
sequences represented by Formulae I-Aad, II-Aad, III-Aad, IV-Aad, V-Aad, VI-Aad, VII-a
                                    [text continues on page 5]
                                                4b

Aad, VII-b-Aad, VIII-Aad, IX-Aad, XVIII-Aad or XXI-Aad as well as those amino acid
sequences summarized below in Table 1. The gualylate cyclase-C agonists according to the
invention are collectively referred to herein as "Aad-GCRA peptides".
                                                 5

                          u                              en
                                                                                        Ue:
      4-                                             cen             0n
                                       0       0                                           0
                                 _     t                  En                            ct~f
                               t                     'A  -t
                                                         <    Ht     -=
      0  0ct   ~
             99t~       EnY
   u   H u~ u o           9
                        -i-            -                  -
   Lr     -
                       ~~ ~
                                       -  -    - -        ---    (9          - ~   - -  -
                 u                     ~
                                     uuuuuu  ~     ~~~(            u
                                                                         7- 7t   7   t  t    7
              U~~~~~~~~~~                                                    U
             r-~~o     rocr-'    r-c        r-       ~     0                           C-
CD                            m      70                  m                             (9
                7t~~~          m    oc                t     t 7        t  7

                 LC)~7                                        r L)    \             C:C        N
                            0 0
                            u uuu                                     u0
               Ul0
                               N,     N
             UU                 U
                         -~       0It
        -u     -u      ~        -     ~
     (9                                                     U
-~ ~~      I     I                      '(           ''r(        'r-(
                            C"
         4      t      7          t   7     t     7t      7  t  7        7 -I-              7"
                               uuu u       u
                                           uu             u     u     uu       uu u     t'7
             2                                ~It-zt oc

    m '        W)      11                     I-                      a,,   CC
            7t 7C)
                 7C)             7C                   C    L)    L)       C
                                             u      uu     u      Ul           0
                                          Ic       I   I I      c   I            (9u
                                        N     N9
       u  u          u    u u       u         u      uu          u
  u      cn                 uuuu
- u       u                                      I            I
                     u               ;-
                                    u-u  ;-     ;-   u
                                      H  m2    H
                                               m     H      m      H

                                  p~ p
                  U         luuuu                                                       >        >
                 It                                               ct               --
 I >
   0It0                                 0o            o     5        00        ~       F~
               -~     -04                         -    -  -    -  -                   -   -
           U~                                                                          u
    -40 7-     4    4     40      4                       4   4  4       4  40
(9                                   u                   -u  -u  uuuuu
                                                                 -u     -u -u  -u           00 -
7t 7t
                                       -zt  N -c -z o <=
                                                      "C oc   <         -z     oc r
              In    In    I        n       -           t 4

                                         U       U
U  U)    U    UUU                        U         UU
-   -  -  -       ---     - -    -    -      -           - - -
C4 C4 C  C  4  )4     C4 C4   C4   C4     C4   4     C)4   C 4 C
                            0           0          0

        The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein bind the guanylate cyclase C (GC-C) and
stimulate intracellular production of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). Optionally, the
Aad-GCRA peptides induce apoptosis. In some aspects, the Aad-GCRA peptides stimulate
intracellular cGMP production at higher levels than naturally occurring GC-C agonists (e.g.,
uroguanylin, guanylin, lymphoguanylin and ST peptides) and/or SP-304.
        For example, the Aad-GCRA peptides of the invention stimulate 5, 10%, 20%, 30%,
40%, 50% , 75%, 90% or more intracellular cGMP compared to naturally occurring GC-C
agonists and/or SP-304. The terms induced and stimulated are used interchangeably throughout
the specification.
        The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein have therapeutic value in the treatment of a
wide variety of disorders and conditions including for example lipid metabolism disorders,
biliary disorders, gastrointestinal disorders, inflammatory disorders, lung disorders, cancer,
cardiac disorders including cardiovascular disorders, eye disorders, oral disorders, blood
disorders, liver disorders, skin disorders, prostate disorders, endocrine disorders, increasing
gastrointestinal motility and obesity. Lipid metabolism disorders include, but not limited to,
dyslipidemia, hyperlipidemia, hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, sitosterolemia,
familial hypercholesterolemia, xanthoma, combined hyperlipidemia, lecithin cholesterol
acyltransferase deficiency, tangier disease, abetalipoproteinemia, erectile dysfunction, fatty liver
disease, and hepatitis. Billary disorders include gallbladder disorders such as for example,
gallstones, gall bladder cancer cholangitis, or primary sclerosing cholangitis; or bile duct
disorders such as for example, cholecystitis, bile duct cancer or fascioliasis. Gastointestinal
disorders include for example, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), non-ulcer dyspepsia, chronic
intestinal pseudo-obstruction, functional dyspepsia, colonic pseudo-obstruction, duodenogastric
reflux, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), ileus inflammation (e.g., post-operative ileus),
gastroparesis, heartburn (high acidity in the GI tract), constipation (e.g., chronic constipation;
constipation associated with use of medications such as opioids, osteoarthritis drugs,
osteoporosis drugs; post surigical constipation, constipation associated with neuropathic
disorders). Inflammatory disorders include tissue and organ inflammation such as kidney
inflammation (e.g., nephritis), gastrointestinal system inflammation (e.g., Crohn's disease and
ulcerative colitis); necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC); pancreatic inflammation (e.g., pancreatis),
lung inflammation (e.g., bronchitis or asthma) or skin inflammation (e.g., psoriasis, eczema).
                                                    11

Lung Disorders include for example chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and
fibrosis. Cancer includes tissue and organ carcinogenesis including metatases such as for
example gastrointestinal cancer, (e.g., gastric cancer, esophageal cancer, pancreatic cancer
colorectal cancer, intestinal cancer, anal cancer, liver cancer, gallbladder cancer, or colon cancer;
lung cancer; thyroid cancer; skin cancer (e.g., melanoma); oral cancer; urinary tract cancer (e.g.,
bladder cancer or kidney cancer); blood cancer (e.g. myeloma or leukemia) or prostate cancer.
Cardiac disorders include for example, congestive heart failure, trachea cardia hypertension, high
cholesterol, or high tryglycerides. Cardiovascular disorders include for example aneurysm,
angina, atherosclerosis, cerebrovascular accident (stroke), cerebrovasculardisease, congestive
heart failure, coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction (heart attack), or peripheral vascular
disease. Liver disorders include for example cirrhosis and fibrosis. In addition, Aad derivates of
GC-C agonist described herein may also be useful to facilitate liver regeneration in liver
transplant patients. Eye disorders include for example increased intra-ocular pressure, glaucoma,
dry eyes retinal degeneration, disorders of tear glands or eye inflammation. Skin disorders
include for example xerosis. Oral disorders include for example dry mouth (xerostomia),
Sj6gren's syndrome, gum diseases (e.g., periodontal disease), or salivary gland duct blockage or
malfunction. Prostate disorders include for example benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
Endocrine disorders include for example diabetes mellitus, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism,
and cystic fibrosis.
        As used herein, the term "guanylate cyclase receptor (GCR)" refers to the class of
guanylate cyclase C receptor on any cell type to which the inventive agonist peptides or natural
agonists described herein bind. As used herein, "intestinal guanylate cyclase receptor" is found
exclusively on epithelial cells lining the GI mucosa. Uroguanylin, guanylin, and ST peptides are
expected to bind to these receptors and may induce apoptosis. The possibility that there may be
different receptors for each agonist peptide is not excluded. Hence, the term refers to the class of
guanylate cyclase receptors on epithelial cells.
        As used herein, the term "GCR agonist" is meant to refer to peptides and/or other
compounds that bind to an intestinal guanylate cyclase receptor and stimulate fluid and
electrolyte transport. This term also covers fragments and pro-peptides that bind to GCR and
stimulate fluid and water secretion.
                                                   12

         As used herein, the term "substantially equivalent" is meant to refer to a peptide that has
an amino acid sequence equivalent to that of the binding domain where certain residues may be
deleted or replaced with other amino acids without impairing the peptide's ability to bind to an
intestinal guanylate cyclase receptor and stimulate fluid and electrolyte transport.
         Addition of carriers (e.g., phosphate-buffered saline or PBS) and other components to the
composition of the present invention is well within the level of skill in this art. In addition to the
compound, such compositions may contain pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and other
ingredients known to facilitate administration and/or enhance uptake. Other formulations, such
as microspheres, nanoparticles, liposomes, and immunologically-based systems may also be used
in accordance with the present invention. Other examples include formulations with polymers
(e.g., 20% w/v polyethylene glycol) or cellulose, or enteric formulations.
         Without intending to be bound by any theory, it is envisioned that ion transport across the
plasma membrane may prove to be an important regulator of the balance between cell
proliferation and apoptosis that will be affected by agents altering cGMP concentrations.
Uroguanylin has been shown to stimulate K+ efflux, Ca++ influx and water transport in the
gastrointestinal tract (3). Moreover, atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), a peptide that also binds to
a specific guanylate cyclase receptor, has also been shown to induce apoptosis in rat mesangial
cells, and to induce apoptosis in cardiac myocytes by a cGMP mechanism (21-24).
         Binding of the present agonists to a guanylate cyclase receptor stimulates production of
cGMP. This ligand-receptor interaction, via activation of a cascade of cGMP-dependent protein
kinases and CFTR, induces apoptosis in target cells. Therefore, administration of the novel
peptides defined by Formulae I-Aad, II-Aad, III-Aad, IV-Aad, V-Aad, VI-Aad, VII-a-Aad, VII
b-Aad, VIII-Aad, IX-Aad, XVIII-Aad or XXI-Aad and those listed in Table 1 are useful in
eliminating or, at least retarding, the onset of lipid metabolism disorders, biliary disorders,
gastrointestinal disorders, inflammatory disorders, lung disorders, cancer, cardiac disorders
including cardiovascular disorders, eye disorders, oral disorders, blood disorders, liver disorders,
skin disorders, prostate disorders, endocrine disorders, increasing gastrointestinal motility and
obesity. Lipid metabolism disorders includ, but not limited to, dyslipidemia, hyperlipidemia,
hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, sitosterolemia, familial hypercholesterolemia,
xanthoma, combined hyperlipidemia, lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency, tangier
disease, abetalipoproteinemia, erectile dysfunction, fatty liver disease, and hepatitis. Billary
                                                    13

disorders include gallbladder disorders such as for example, gallstones, gall bladder cancer
cholangitis, or primary sclerosing cholangitis; or bile duct disorders such as for
example,cholecystitis, bile duct cancer or fascioliasis. Gastointestinal disorders include for
example, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), non-ulcer dyspepsia, chronic intestinal pseudo
obstruction, functional dyspepsia, colonic pseudo-obstruction, duodenogastric reflux,
gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), ileus inflammation (e.g., post-operative ileus),
gastroparesis, heartburn (high acidity in the GI tract), constipation (e.g., chronic constipation,
constipation associated with use of medications such as opioids, osteoarthritis drugs,
osteoporosis drugs; post surigical constipation, constipation associated with neuropathic
disorders). Inflammatory disorders include tissue and organ inflammation such as kidney
inflammation (e.g., nephritis), gastrointestinal system inflammation (e.g., Crohn's disease and
ulcerative colitis); necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC); pancreatic inflammation (e.g., pancreatis),
lung inflammation (e.g., bronchitis or asthma) or skin inflammation (e.g., psoriasis, eczema).
Lung Disorders include for example chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and
fibrosis. Cancer includes tissue and organ carcinogenesis including metatases such as for
example gastrointestinal cancer, (e.g., gastric cancer, esophageal cancer, pancreatic cancer
colorectal cancer, intestinal cancer, anal cancer, liver cancer, gallbladder cancer, or colon cancer;
lung cancer; thyroid cancer; skin cancer (e.g., melanoma); oral cancer; urinary tract cancer (e.g.
bladder cancer or kidney cancer); blood cancer (e.g. myeloma or leukemia) or prostate cancer.
Cardiac disorders include for example, congestive heart failure, trachea cardia hypertension, high
cholesterol, or high tryglycerides. Cardiovascular disorders include for example aneurysm,
angina, atherosclerosis, cerebrovascular accident (stroke), cerebrovasculardisease, congestive
heart failure, coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction (heart attack), or peripheral vascular
disease. Liver disorders include for example cirrhosis and fibrosis. In addition, Aad derivates of
GC-C agonist described herein may also be useful to facilitate liver regeneration in liver
transplant patients. Eye disorders include for example increased intra-ocular pressure, glaucoma,
dry eyes retinal degeneration, disorders of tear glands or eye inflammation. Skin disorders
include for example xerosis. Oral disorders include for example dry mouth (xerostomia),
Sj6gren's syndrome, gum diseases (e.g., periodontal disease), or salivary gland duct blockage or
malfunction. Prostate disorders include for example benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
                                                   14

  Endocrine disorders include for example diabetes mellitus, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism,
  and cystic fibrosis.
          AAD-GCRA PEPTIDES
          In one aspect, the invention provides an Aad-GCRA peptide. The Aad-GCRA peptides
  are analogues uroguanylin, guanylin, lymphoguanylin and ST peptides. No particular length is
  implied by the term "peptide". Particularly, these analogs contain an a-aminoadipic acid (Ad),
  preferably at the 3rd position from the N-terminus of each peptide or at the position to the N
  terminal side next to the first cysteine ("Cys) residue. In some embodiments, the Aad-GCRA
  peptide is less than 25 amino acids in length, e.g., less than or equal to 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14,
  13, 12, 11, 10, or 5 amino acid in length.
          The Aad-GCRA peptides can be polymers of L-amino acids, D-amino acids, or a
  combination of both. For example, in various embodiments, the peptides are D retro-inverso
  peptides. The term "retro-inverso isomer" refers to an isomer of a linear peptide in which the
  direction of the sequence is reversed and the chirality of each amino acid residue is inverted.
  See, e.g., Jameson et al., Nature, 368, 744-746 (1994); Brady et al., Nature, 368, 692-693 (1994).
  The net result of combining D-enantiomers and reverse synthesis is that the positions of carbonyl
  and amino groups in each amide bond are exchanged, while the position of the side-chain groups
  at each alpha carbon is preserved. Unless specifically stated otherwise, it is presumed that any
  given L-amino acid sequence of the invention may be made into a D retro-inverso peptide by
  synthesizing a reverse of the sequence for the corresponding native L-amino acid sequence. For
  example an Aad-GCRA peptide includes the sequence defined by Formulae I-Aad, II-Aad, III
  Aad, IV-Aad, V-Aad, VI-Aad, VII-a-Aad, VII-b-Aad, VIII-Aad, IX-Aad, XVIII-Aad or XXI
  Aad and those listed in Table 1.
5          By inducing cGMP production is meant that the Aad-GCRA peptide induces the
  production of intracellular cGMP. Intracellular cGMP is measured by methods known in the art.
  For example, the Aad-GCRA peptide of the invention stimulate 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%
  , 75%, 90% or more intracellular cGMP compared to naturally occurring GC-C agonists.
  Optionally, the Aad-GCRA peptides of the invention of the invention stimulate 5%, 10%, 20%,
  30%, 40%, 50%, 75%, 90% or more intracellular cGMP compared SP-304. In further
                                                     15

embodiments, the Aad-GCRA peptide stimulates apoptosis, e.g., programmed cell death or
activates the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR).
        As used herein PEG3, 3 PEG, is meant to denote polyethylene glycol such as include
aminoethyloxy-ethyloxy-acetic acid (AeeA).
        As used herein, the term "AMIDE" is meant to denote that the terminal carboxylic acid is
replaced with an amide group, i.e., the terminal COOH is replaced with CONH 2.
        As used herein, the term "pyGlu" refers to pyroglutamic acid.
        As used herein (e.g., in Formulae I-Aad, II-Aad, III-Aad, IV-Aad, V-Aad, VI-Aad, VII-a
Aad, VII-b-Aad, VIII-Aad, IX-Aad, XVIII-Aad or XXI-Aad), Xa is any natural, unnatural
amino acid or amino acid analogue; Maa is a Cysteine (Cys), Penicillamine (Pen) homocysteine,
or 3-mercaptoproline.
        Xaa.i is meant to denote an amino acid sequence of any any natural, unnatural amino
acid or amino acid analogue that is one, two or three residues in length. In some embodiments,
when Xaa.i represents one amino acid, Xaa.i is an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad). In some
embodiments, when Xaani represents two amino acids, the second residue from the N-terminus is
an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad). In some embodiments, when Xaani represents three amino acids,
the third residue from the N-terminus is an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad).
        Xaan2 is meant to denote an amino acid sequence of any any natural, unnatural amino acid
or amino acid analogue that is zero or one residue in length; and Xaa. 3 is meant to denote an
amino acid sequence of any any natural, unnatural amino acid or amino acid analogue that is
zero, one, two, three, four, five or six residues in length. Additionally, any amino acid
represented by Xaa, may be an L-amino acid, a D-amino acid, a methylated amino acid, a
florinated amino acid or any combination of thereof. Preferablly the amino acids at the N
terminus, C-terminus or both are D-amino acids. Optionally, any Aad-GCRA peptide
represented by Formulae I-Aad, II-Aad, III-Aad, IV-Aad, V-Aad, VI-Aad, VII-a-Aad, VII-b
Aad, VIII-Aad, IX-Aad, XVIII-Aad or XXI-Aad may contain on or more polyethylene glycol
residues at the N- terminus, C-terminus or both. An exemplary polyethylene glycol includes
aminoethyloxy-ethyloxy-acetic acid and polymers thereof. In some embodiments, any Aad
GCRA peptide represented by Formulae I-Aad, II-Aad, III-Aad, IV-Aad, V-Aad, VI-Aad, VII-a
Aad, VII-b-Aad, VIII-Aad, IX-Aad, XVIII-Aad or XXI-Aad may contain AMIDE at the C
terminus.
                                                   16

        Specific examples of Aad-GCRA peptides that can be used in the methods and
formulations of the invention include a peptide selected from Table 1.
        In some embodiments, Aad-GCRA peptides include peptides having the amino acid
sequence of Formula I-Aad. In some embodiments, at least one amino acid of Formula I-Aad is
a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid and/or the amino acid at position 16 is a serine.
Preferably, the amino acid at position 16 of Formula I-Aad is a D-amino acid or a methylated
amino acid. For example, the amino acid at position 16 of Formula I-Aad is a d-leucine or a d
serine. Optionally, one or more of the amino acids at positions 1-2 of Formula I-Aad are D
amino acids or methylated amino acids or a combination of D-amino acids or methylated amino
acids. For example, Asn1 or Asp 2 (or a combination thereof) of Formula I-Aad is a D-amino acid
or a methylated amino acid. Preferably, the amino acid at position Xaa 6 of Formula I-Aad is a
leucine, serine or tyrosine.
        In alternative embodiments, Aad-GCRA peptides include peptides having the amino acid
sequence of Formula II-Aad. In some embodiments, at least one amino acid of Formula II-Aad
is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid. Preferably, the amino acid denoted by Xaan2 of
Formula II-Aad is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid. In some embodiments, the amino
acid denoted by Xaan2 of Formula II-Aad is a leucine, a d-leucine, a serine, or a d-serine.
Preferably, the one or more amino acids denoted by Xaa.i of Formula II-Aad are D-amino acids
or methylated amino acids. Preferably, the amino acid at position Xaa6 of Formula II-Aad is a
leucine, a serine, or a tyrosine. In some embodiments, when Xaani represents one amino acid,
Xaa.i is an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad). In some embodiments, when Xaa.i represents two amino
acids, the second residue from the N-terminus is an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad). In some
embodiments, when Xaani represents three amino acids, the third residue from the N-terminus is
an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad). In some embodiments, Xaal is a pyroglutamic acid. In some
embodiments, Xaa 2 is glutamic acid or d-glutamic acid. In some embodiments, Xaa8 and Xaam    0
are AIB. In some embodiments, Xaa9 is tyrosine. In some embodiments, Xaa16 is dNal.
        In some embodiments, Aad-GCRA peptides include peptides having the amino acid
sequence of Formula III-Aad. In some embodiments, at least one amino acid of Formula III-Aad
is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid and/or Maa is not a cysteine. Preferably, the
amino acid denoted by Xaan2 of Formula III-Aad is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid.
In some embodiments the amino acid denoted by Xaan2 of Formula III-Aad is a leucine, a d
                                                17

leucine, a serine, or a d-serine. Preferably, the one or more amino acids denoted by Xaa.i of
Formula III-Aad are D-amino acids or methylated amino acids. Preferably, the amino acid at
position Xaa 6 of Formula III-Aad is a leucine, a serine, or a tyrosine. In some embodiments,
when Xaa.i represents one amino acid, Xaa.i is an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad). In some
embodiments, when Xaani represents two amino acids, the second residue from the N-terminus is
an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad). In some embodiments, when Xaani represents three amino acids,
the third residue from the N-terminus is an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad). In some embodiments,
Xaal is a pyroglutamic acid. In some embodiments, Xaa 2 is glutamic acid or d-glutamic acid. In
some embodiments, Xaa 1 is dNal.
        In other embodiments, Aad-GCRA peptides include peptides having the amino acid
sequence of Formula IV-Aad. In some embodiments, at least one amino acid of Formula IV-Aad
is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid, and/or Maa is not a cysteine. Preferably, the
Xaan2 of Formula IV-Aad is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid. In some embodiments,
the amino acid denoted by Xaan2 of Formula IV-Aad is a leucine, a d-leucine, a serine, or a d
serine. Preferably, the one or more of the amino acids denoted by Xaani of Formula IV-Aad are
D-amino acids or methylated amino acids. In some embodiments, when Xaa.i represents one
amino acid, Xaa.i is an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad). In some embodiments, when Xaani represents
two amino acids, the second residue from the N-terminus is an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad). In
some embodiments, when Xaani represents three amino acids, the third residue from the N
terminus is an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad). Preferably, the amino acid denoted Xaa 6 of Formula
IV is a leucine, a serine, or a tyrosine. In some embodiments, Xaal is a pyroglutamic acid. In
some embodiments, Xaa2 is glutamic acid or d-glutamic acid. In some embodiments, Xaa8 and
Xaam are AIB. In some embodiments, Xaa9 is tyrosine. In some embodiments, Xaa 1 is dNal.
        In further embodiments, Aad-GCRA peptides include peptides having the amino acid
sequence of Formula V-Aad. In some embodiments, at at least one amino acid of Formula V
Aad is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid. Preferably, the amino acid at position 16 of
Formula V-Aad is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid. For example, the amino acid at
position 16 (i.e., Xaa16 ) of Formula V-Aad is a d-leucine or a d-serine. Optionally, one or more
of the amino acids at positions 1 and 2 of Formula V-Aad are D-amino acids or methylated
amino acids or a combination of D-amino acids or methylated amino acids. For example, Asni
or Asp2 (or a combination thereof) of Formula V-Aad is a D-amino acids or a methylated amino
                                                   18

acid. Preferably, the amino acid denoted at Xaa6 of Formula V-Aad is a leucine, a serine, or a
tyrosine.
        In additional embodiments, Aad-GCRA peptides include peptides having the amino acid
sequence of Formula VI-Aad, VII-a-Aad, VII-b-Aad, VIII-Aad or IX-Aad. Preferably, the
amino acid at position 6 of Formula VI-Aad, VII-a-Aad, VII-b-Aad, VIII-Aad or IX-Aad is a
leucine, a serine, or a tyrosine. In some aspects the amino acid at position 16 of Formula VI
Aad, VII-a-Aad, VII-b-Aad, VIII-Aad or IX-Aad is a leucine or a serine. Preferably, the amino
acid at position 16 of Formula VI-Aad, VII-a-Aad, VII-b-Aad, VIII-Aad or IX-Aad is a D-amino
acid or a methylated amino acid.
        In some embodiments, GCRA peptides include peptides containing the amino acid
sequence of Formula XVIII-Aad. Preferably, the amino acid at position 1 of Formula XVIII-Aad
is a glutamic acid, aspartic acid, glutamine or lysine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 2 and
3 of Formula XVIII-Aad is a glutamic acid, or an aspartic acid. Preferably, the amino acid at
position 5 is a glutamic acid. Preferably, the amino acid at position 6 of Formula XVIII-Aad is
an isoleucine, valine, serine, threonine or tyrosine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 8 of
Formula XVIII-Aad is a valine or isoleucine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 9 of Formula
XVIII-Aad is an asparagine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 10 of Formula XVIII-Aad is a
valine or a methionine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 11 of Formula XVIII-Aad is an
alanine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 13 of Formula XVIII-Aad is a threonine.
Preferably, the amino acid at position 14 of Formula XVIII-Aad is a glycine. Preferably, the
amino acid at position 16 of Formula XVIII-Aad is a leucine, serine, threonine or tyrosine.
        In some embodiments, GCRA peptides include peptides having the amino acid sequence
of Formula XXI-Aad. In some embodiments, at least one amino acid of Formula XXI-Aad is a
D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid. Preferably, the amino acid denoted by Xaa2 of
Formula XXI-Aad is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid. In some embodiments, the
amino acid denoted by Xaa2 of Formula XXI-Aad is a leucine, a d-leucine, a serine, or a d
serine. Preferably, the one or more amino acids denoted by Xaa.i of Formula XXI-Aad are D
amino acids or methylated amino acids. In some embodiments, when Xaani represents one
amino acid, Xaa.i is an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad). In some embodiments, when Xaani represents
two amino acids, the second residue from the N-terminus is an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad). In
some embodiments, when Xaani represents three amino acids, the third residue from the N
                                                   19

terminus is an a-aminoadipic acid (Aad). Preferably, the amino acid at position Xaa6 of Formula
XXI-Aad is a leucine, a serine, or a tyrosine. In some embodiments, Xaal is a pyroglutamic acid.
In some embodiments, Xaa 2 is glutamic acid or d-glutamic acid. In some embodiments, Xaa7 is
an aspartic acid and forms a lactam bridge with Xaa . In some embodiments, Xaa and Xaam
are AIB. In some embodiments, Xaa 9 is tyrosine. In some embodiments, Xaa15 is an Orn. In
some embodiments, Xaa is dNal.
        In certain embodiments, one or more amino acids of the Aad-GCRA peptides can be
replaced by a non-naturally occurring amino acid or a naturally or non-naturally occurring amino
acid analog. There are many amino acids beyond the standard 20 (Ala, Arg, Asn, Asp, Cys, Gln,
Glu, Gly, His, Ile, Leu, Lys, Met, Phe, Pro, Ser, Thr, Trp, Tyr, and Val). Some are naturally
occurring others are not. (See, for example, Hunt, The Non-Protein Amino Acids: In Chemistry
and Biochemistry of the Amino Acids, Barrett, Chapman and Hall, 1985). For example, an
aromatic amino acid can be replaced by 3,4-dihydroxy-L-phenylalanine, 3-iodo-L-tyrosine,
triiodothyronine, L-thyroxine, phenylglycine (Phg) or nor-tyrosine (norTyr). Phg and norTyr and
other amino acids including Phe and Tyr can be substituted by, e.g., a halogen, -CH3, -OH,
CH2NH3, -C(O)H, -CH2CH3, - CN, -CH2CH2CH3, -SH, or another group. Any amino acid
can be substituted by the D-form of the amino acid.
        With regard to non-naturally occurring amino acids or naturally and non-naturally
occurring amino acid analogs, a number of substitutions in the polypeptide and agonists
described herein are possible alone or in combination.
        For example, glutamine residues can be substituted with gamma-Hydroxy-Glu or
gamma- Carboxy-Glu. Tyrosine residues can be substituted with an alpha substituted amino acid
such as L-alpha-methylphenylalanine or by analogues such as: 3-Amino-Tyr; Tyr(CH3);
Tyr(P03(CH3)2); Tyr(SO3H); beta-Cyclohexyl-Ala; beta-(1-Cyclopentenyl)-Ala; beta
Cyclopentyl-Ala; beta-Cyclopropyl-Ala; beta-Quinolyl-Ala; beta-(2-Thiazolyl)-Ala; beta
(Triazole-l-yl)-Ala; beta-(2-Pyridyl)-Ala; beta-(3-Pyridyl)-Ala; Amino-Phe; Fluoro-Phe;
Cyclohexyl-Gly; tBu-Gly; beta-(3-benzothienyl)-Ala; beta-(2-thienyl)-Ala; 5-Methyl-Trp; and
A- Methyl-Trp. Proline residues can be substituted with homopro (L-pipecolic acid); hydroxy
Pro; 3,4-Dehydro-Pro; 4-fluoro-Pro; or alpha-methyl-Pro or an N(alpha)-C(alpha) cyclized
amino acid analogues with the structure: n = 0, 1, 2, 3 Alanine residues can be substituted with
alpha-substitued or N-methylated amino acid such as alpha-amino isobutyric acid (aib), L/D
                                                  20

alpha-ethylalanine (L/D-isovaline), L/D-methylvaline, or L/D-alpha-methylleucine or a non
natural amino acid such as beta-fluoro-Ala. Alanine can also be substituted with: n = 0, 1, 2, 3
Glycine residues can be substituted with alpha-amino isobutyric acid (aib) or L/D-alpha
ethylalanine (L/D-isovaline).
        Further examples of unnatural amino acids include: an unnatural anoalog of alanine (e.g.,
L-1-Nal or L-2-Nal); an unnatural analog of tyrosine; an unnatural analogue of glutamine; an
unnatural analogue of phenylalanine; an unnatural analogue of serine; an unnatural analogue of
threonine; an alkyl, aryl, acyl, azido, cyano, halo, hydrazine, hydrazide, hydroxyl, alkenyl,
alkynl, ether, thiol, sulfonyl, seleno, ester, thioacid, borate, boronate, phospho, phosphono,
phosphine, heterocyclic, enone, imine, aldehyde, hydroxylamine, keto, or amino substituted
amino acid, or any combination thereof; an amino acid with a photoactivatable cross-linker; a
spin-labeled amino acid; a fluorescent amino acid; an amino acid with a novel functional group;
an amino acid that covalently or noncovalently interacts with another molecule; a metal binding
amino acid; an amino acid that is amidated at a site that is not naturally amidated, a metal
containing amino acid; a radioactive amino acid; a photocaged and/or photoisomerizable amino
acid; a biotin or biotin-analogue containing amino acid; a glycosylated or carbohydrate modified
amino acid; a keto containing amino acid; amino acids comprising polyethylene glycol or
polyether; a heavy atom substituted amino acid (e.g., an amino acid containing deuterium,
tritium, "C, "N, or 180); a chemically cleavable or photocleavable amino acid; an amino acid
with an elongated side chain; an amino acid containing a toxic group; a sugar substituted amino
acid, e.g., a sugar substituted serine or the like; a carbon-linked sugar-containing amino acid; a
redox-active amino acid; an a-hydroxy containing acid; an amino thio acid containing amino
acid; an a, a disubstituted amino acid; a p- amino acid; a cyclic amino acid other than proline; an
O-methyl-L-tyrosine; an L-3-(2- naphthyl)alanine; a 3-methyl-phenylalanine; a p-acetyl-L
phenylalanine; an O-4-allyl-L-tyrosine; a 4-propyl-L-tyrosine; a tri-O-acetyl-GlcNAc      p -serine;
an L-Dopa; a fluorinated phenylalanine; an isopropyl-L-phenylalanine; a p-azido-L
phenylalanine; a p-acyl-L-phenylalanine; a p- benzoyl-L-phenylalanine; an L-phosphoserine; a
phosphonoserine; a phosphonotyrosine; a p- iodo-phenylalanine; a 4-fluorophenylglycine; a p
bromophenylalanine; a p-amino-L- phenylalanine; an isopropyl-L-phenylalanine; L-3-(2
naphthyl)alanine; D- 3-(2-naphthyl)alanine (dNal); an amino-, isopropyl-, or O-allyl-containing
phenylalanine analogue; a dopa, 0-methyl-L-tyrosine; a glycosylated amino acid; a p
                                                    21

(propargyloxy)phenylalanine; dimethyl-Lysine; hydroxy-proline; mercaptopropionic acid;
methyl-lysine; 3-nitro-tyrosine; norleucine; pyro-glutamic acid; Z (Carbobenzoxyl);  6- Acetyl
Lysine;  p-alanine; p-aspartic acid; p-cyclohexylalanine; aminobenzoyl derivative; aminobutyric
acid (Abu); citrulline; aminohexanoic acid (Ahx); aminoisobutyric acid (AIB);
cyclohexylalanine; d-cyclohexylalanine; cyclohexylglycine; hydroxyproline; nitro-arginine;
nitro-phenylalanine; nitro-tyrosine; norvaline; octahydroindole carboxylate; ornithine (Orn);
penicillamine (PEN); tetrahydroisoquinoline; diaminobutyric acid; diaminopimelic acid;
pyroglutamic acid; homocysteine; homoserine; N-c-dinitrophenyl-lysine; N-e-methyl-lysine; N
8-dimethyl-lysine; N,N,N- P-trimethyl-lysine; acetamidomethyl protected amino acids and
pegylated amino acids. Further examples of unnatural amino acids and amino acid analogs can
be found in U.S. 20030108885, U.S. 20030082575, US20060019347 (paragraphs 410-418) and
the references cited therein. The polypeptides of the invention can include further modifications
including those described in US20060019347, paragraph 589.
        "Nal" used herein refers to both L-1-naphthylalanine (L-1-Nal) and L-2-naphthylalanine
(L-2-Nal).
        In some embodiments, an amino acid can be replaced by a naturally-occurring, non
essential amino acid, e.g., taurine.
        Alternatively, the Aad-GCRA peptides are cyclic peptides. Aad-GCRA cyclic peptides
are prepared by methods known in the art. For example, macrocyclization is often accomplished
by forming an amide bond between the peptide N- and C-termini, between a side chain and the
N- or C-terminus [e.g., with K 3Fe(CN)6 at pH 8.5] (Samson et al., Endocrinology, 137:
5182-5185 (1996)), or between two amino acid side chains, such as cysteine. See, e.g.,
DeGrado, Adv Protein Chem, 39: 51-124 (1988). In various aspects the Aad-GCRA peptides are
[4,12; 7,15] bicycles.
         In some Aad-GCRA peptides one or both members of one or both pairs of Cys residues
which normally form a disulfide bond can be replaced by homocysteine, penicillamine, 3
mercaptoproline (Kolodziej et al. 1996 Int J Pept Protein Res 48:274); P,  p dimethylcysteine
(Hunt et al. 1993 Int JPept Protein Res 42:249) or diaminopropionic acid (Smith et al. 1978 J
Med Chem 2 1:117) to form alternative internal cross-links at the positions of the normal
disulfide bonds.
                                                 22

         In addition, one or more disulfide bonds can be replaced by alternative covalent cross
links, e.g., an amide linkage (-CH2CH(O)NHCH 2- or -CH2NHCH(O)CH 2-), an ester linkage,
a thioester linkage, a lactam bridge (such as Asp[lactam]), a carbamoyl linkage, a urea linkage, a
thiourea linkage, a phosphonate ester linkage, an alkyl linkage (-CH2CH2CH2CH2-), an alkenyl
linkage(-CH 2CH=CHCH 2-), an ether linkage (-CH2CH20CH2- or -CH20CH2CH2-), a
thioether linkage (-CH2CH2SCH2- or - CH2SCH2CH2-), an amine linkage (-CH2CH2NHCH2
or -CH2NHCH 2CH2-) or a thioamide linkage (-CH2CH(S)HNHCH 2- or -CH2NHCH(S)CH 2
). For example, Ledu et al. (Proc Nat'l Acad. Sci. 100:11263-78, 2003) describe methods for
preparing lactam and amide cross-links.
        The Aad-GCRA peptides can have one or more conventional polypeptide bonds replaced
by an alternative bond. Such replacements can increase the stability of the polypeptide. For
example, replacement of the polypeptide bond between a residue amino terminal to an aromatic
residue (e.g. Tyr, Phe, Trp) with an alternative bond can reduce cleavage by carboxy peptidases
and may increase half-life in the digestive tract. Bonds that can replace polypeptide bonds
include: a retro-inverso bond (C(O)-NH instead of NH-C(O); a reduced amide bond (NH-CH2);
a thiomethylene bond (S-CH2 or CH2-S); an oxomethylene bond (0-CH2 or CH2-0); an
ethylene bond (CH2-CH2); a thioamide bond (C(S)-NH); a trans-olefine bond (CH=CH); a
fiuoro substituted trans-olefme bond (CF=CH); a ketomethylene bond (C(O)-CHR or CHR-C(O)
wherein R is H or CH3; and a fluoro-ketomethylene bond (C(O)-CFR or CFR-C(O) wherein R is
H or F or CH3.
         The Aad-GCRA peptides can be modified using standard modifications. Modifications
may occur at the amino (N-), carboxy (C-) terminus, internally or a combination of any of the
preceeding. In one aspect described herein, there may be more than one type of modification on
the polypeptide. Modifications include but are not limited to: acetylation, amidation,
biotinylation, cinnamoylation, farnesylation, formylation, myristoylation, palmitoylation,
phosphorylation (Ser, Tyr or Thr), stearoylation, succinylation, sulfurylation and cyclisation (via
disulfide bridges or amide cyclisation), and modification by Cys3 or Cys5. The Aad-GCRA
peptides described herein may also be modified by 2, 4-dinitrophenyl (DNP), DNP-lysine,
modification by 7-Amino-4-methyl- coumarin (AMC), flourescein, NBD (7-Nitrobenz-2-Oxa
1,3-Diazole), p-nitro-anilide, rhodamine B, EDANS (5-((2-aminoethyl)amino)naphthalene-l
sulfonic acid), dabcyl, dabsyl, dansyl, texas red, FMOC, and Tamra (Tetramethylrhodamine).
                                                  23

The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein may also be conjugated to, for example, polyethylene
glycol (PEG); alkyl groups (e.g., C1-C20 straight or branched alkyl groups); fatty acid radicals;
combinations of PEG, alkyl groups and fatty acid radicals (See, U.S. Patent 6,309,633; Soltero et
al., 2001 Innovations in Pharmaceutical Technology 106-110); BSA and KLH (Keyhole Limpet
Hemocyanin). The addition of PEG and other polymers which can be used to modify
polypeptides of the invention is described in US2006019347 section IX.
        Also included in the invention are peptides that biologically or functional equivalent to
the peptides described herein. The term "biologically equivalent" or functional equivalent" is
intended to mean that the compositions of the present invention are capable of demonstrating
some or all of the cGMP production modulatory effects.
        Aad-GCRA peptides can also include derivatives of Aad-GCRA peptides which are
intended to include hybrid and modified forms of Aad-GCRA peptides in which certain amino
acids have been deleted or replaced and modifications such as where one or more amino acids
have been changed to a modified amino acid or unusual amino acid and modifications such as
glycosylation so long the modified form retains the biological activity of Aad-GCRA peptides.
By retaining the biological activity, it is meant that cGMP and or apoptosis is induced by the
Aad-GCRA peptide, although not necessarily at the same level of potency as that of a naturally
occurring GCRA peptide identified.
        Preferred variants are those that have conservative amino acid substitutions made at one
or more predicted non-essential amino acid residues. A "conservative amino acid substitution" is
one in which the amino acid residue is replaced with an amino acid residue having a similar side
chain. Families of amino acid residues having similar side chains have been defined in the art.
These families include amino acids with basic side chains (e.g., lysine, arginine, histidine), acidic
side chains (e.g., aspartic acid, glutamic acid), uncharged polar side chains (e.g., glycine,
asparagine, glutamine, serine, threonine, tyrosine, cysteine), nonpolar side chains (e.g., alanine,
valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline, phenylalanine, methionine, tryptophan), beta-branched side
chains (e.g., threonine, valine, isoleucine) and aromatic side chains (e.g., tyrosine, phenylalanine,
tryptophan, histidine). Thus, a predicted nonessential amino acid residue in an Aad-GCRA
polypeptide is replaced with another amino acid residue from the same side chain family.
Alternatively, in another embodiment, mutations can be introduced randomly along all or part of
                                                   24

  an Aad-GCRA coding sequence, such as by saturation mutagenesis, and the resultant mutants
  can be screened to identify mutants that retain activity.
            Also included within the meaning of substantially homologous is any Aad-GCRA peptide
  which may be isolated by virtue of cross-reactivity with antibodies to the Aad-GCRA peptide.
            PREPARATION OF AAD-GCRA PEPTIDES
            Aad-GCRA peptides are easily prepared using modem cloning techniques, or may be
  synthesized by solid state methods or by site-directed mutagenesis. An Aad-GCRA peptide may
  include dominant negative forms of a polypeptide.
            Chemical synthesis may generally be performed using standard solution phase or solid
  phase peptide synthesis techniques, in which a peptide linkage occurs through the direct
  condensation of the amino group of one amino acid with the carboxy group of the other amino
  acid with the elimination of a water molecule. Peptide bond synthesis by direct condensation, as
  formulated above, requires suppression of the reactive character of the amino group of the first
  and of the carboxyl group of the second amino acid. The masking substituents must permit their
  ready removal, without inducing breakdown of the labile peptide molecule.
             In solution phase synthesis, a wide variety of coupling methods and protecting groups
  may be used (See, Gross and Meienhofer, eds., "The Peptides: Analysis, Synthesis, Biology,"
  Vol. 1-4 (Academic Press, 1979); Bodansky and Bodansky, "The Practice of Peptide Synthesis,"
  2d ed. (Springer Verlag, 1994)). In addition, intermediate purification and linear scale up are
  possible. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that solution synthesis requires
  consideration of main chain and side chain protecting groups and activation method. In addition,
  careful segment selection is necessary to minimize racemization during segment condensation.
  Solubility considerations are also a factor. Solid phase peptide synthesis uses an insoluble
5 polymer for support during organic synthesis. The polymer-supported peptide chain permits the
  use of simple washing and filtration steps instead of laborious purifications at intermediate steps.
  Solid-phase peptide synthesis may generally be performed according to the method of Merrifield
  et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1963, 85:2149, which involves assembling a linear peptide chain on a
  resin support using protected amino acids. Solid phase peptide synthesis typically utilizes either
  the Boc or Fmoc strategy, which is well known in the art.
                                                      25

         Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that, in solid phase synthesis,
deprotection and coupling reactions must go to completion and the side-chain blocking groups
must be stable throughout the synthesis. In addition, solid phase synthesis is generally most
suitable when peptides are to be made on a small scale.
         Acetylation of the N-terminal can be accomplished by reacting the final peptide with
acetic anhydride before cleavage from the resin. C-amidation is accomplished using an
appropriate resin such as methylbenzhydrylamine resin using the Boc technology.
         Alternatively the Aad-GCRA peptides are produced by modem cloning techniques. For
example, the Aad-GCRA peptides are produced either in bacteria including, without limitation,
E. coli, or in other existing systems for polypeptide or protein production (e.g., Bacillus subtilis,
baculovirus expression systems using Drosophila Sf9 cells, yeast or filamentous fungal
expression systems, mammalian cell expression systems), or they can be chemically synthesized.
 If the Aad-GCRA peptide or variant peptide is to be produced in bacteria, e.g., E. coli, the
nucleic acid molecule encoding the polypeptide may also encode a leader sequence that permits
the secretion of the mature polypeptide from the cell. Thus, the sequence encoding the
polypeptide can include the pre sequence and the pro sequence of, for example, a naturally
occurring bacterial ST polypeptide. The secreted, mature polypeptide can be purified from the
culture medium.
         The sequence encoding an Aad-GCRA peptide described herein can be inserted into a
vector capable of delivering and maintaining the nucleic acid molecule in a bacterial cell. The
DNA molecule may be inserted into an autonomously replicating vector (suitable vectors
include, for example, pGEM3Z and pcDNA3, and derivatives thereof). The vector nucleic acid
may be a bacterial or bacteriophage DNA such as bacteriophage lambda or M13 and derivatives
thereof. Construction of a vector containing a nucleic acid described herein can be followed by
transformation of a host cell such as a bacterium. Suitable bacterial hosts include but are not
limited to, E. coli, B subtilis, Pseudomonas, Salmonella. The genetic construct also includes, in
addition to the encoding nucleic acid molecule, elements that allow expression, such as a
promoter and regulatory sequences. The expression vectors may contain transcriptional control
sequences that control transcriptional initiation, such as promoter, enhancer, operator, and
repressor sequences.
                                                    26

           A variety of transcriptional control sequences are well known to those in the art. The
  expression vector can also include a translation regulatory sequence (e.g., an untranslated 5'
  sequence, an untranslated 3' sequence, or an internal ribosome entry site). The vector can be
  capable of autonomous replication or it can integrate into host DNA to ensure stability during
  polypeptide production.
           The protein coding sequence that includes an Aad-GCRA peptide described herein can
  also be fused to a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide affinity tag, e.g., glutathione S-transferase
  (GST), maltose E binding protein, protein A, FLAG tag, hexa-histidine, myc tag or the influenza
  HA tag, in order to facilitate purification. The affinity tag or reporter fusion joins the reading
  frame of the polypeptide of interest to the reading frame of the gene encoding the affinity tag
  such that a translational fusion is generated. Expression of the fusion gene results in translation
  of a single polypeptide that includes both the polypeptide of interest and the affinity tag. In
  some instances where affinity tags are utilized, DNA sequence encoding a protease recognition
  site will be fused between the reading frames for the affinity tag and the polypeptide of interest.
           Genetic constructs and methods suitable for production of immature and mature forms of
  the Aad-GCRA peptides and variants described herein in protein expression systems other than
  bacteria, and well known to those skilled in the art, can also be used to produce polypeptides in a
  biological system.
           The peptides disclosed herein may be modified by attachment of a second molecule that
  confers a desired property upon the peptide, such as increased half-life in the body, for example,
  pegylation. Such modifications also fall within the scope of the term "variant" as used herein.
           COMPOSITIONS
           The present invention also provides compositions comprising at least one Aad-GCRA
5 peptide, at least one enteric coating which releases the peptide at a specific pH (e.g., about pH
  4.0, pH 5.0, pH 6.0 or pH 7.0) and an inert carrier.
           A composition may comprise an enteric coating which releases the peptide at pH5 and an
  inert carrier coated with Aad-GCRA peptides.
           A composition may comprise an enteric coating which releases the peptide at pH6 and an
  inert carrier coated with Aad-GCRA peptides.
                                                    27

         A composition may comprise an enteric coating which releases the peptide at pH7 and an
inert carrier coated with Aad-GCRA peptides.
         The present invention further provides a formulation comprising a mixture of
compositions that contain different peptides and/or that release the peptides at different pH
levels. The mixture may comprise at least 2, 3, 4 or more compositions that release the peptides
at different pH levels. The mixture may comprise at least 2, 3, 4 or more compositions that
contain different Aad-GCRA peptides. A skilled artisan can determine the ratio of these
compositions within the mixture, for example, according to the activity of each peptide,
solubility of each peptide, and/or the targeting region of the GI tract.
         In some embodiments, a formulation comprises a mixture of (1) a composition having an
inert carrier coated with Aad-GCRA peptides and an enteric coating that releases the peptides at
pH5.0 ("pH5.0 composition") and (2) a composition having an inert carrier coated with Aad
GCRA peptides and an enteric coating that releases the peptides at pH6.0 ("pH6.0
composition").
         The ratio of pH5.0 composition to pH6.0 composition can be any value between 100:1
(v/v) and 1: 100 (v/v) and can be determined, for example, by the activity of each peptide,
solubility of each peptide, and/or the targeting region of the GI tract. In some embodiments, the
ratio of pH5.0 composition to pH6.0 composition is10:1, 9:1, 8:1, 7:1, 6:1, 5:1, 4:1, 3:1, 2: 1, 1:
1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:6, 1:7, 1:8, 1:9, or 1:10.
         In some embodiments, a formulation comprises a mixture of (1) a composition having an
inert carrier coated with Aad-GCRA peptides and an enteric coating that releases the peptides at
pH5.0 ("pH5.0 composition") and (2) a composition having an inert carrier coated with Aad
GCRA peptides and an enteric coating that releases the peptides at pH7.0 ("pH7.0
composition").
         The ratio of pH5.0 composition to pH7.0 composition can be any value between 100:1
(v/v) and 1: 100 (v/v) and can be determined, for example, by the activity of each peptide,
solubility of each peptide, and/or the targeting region of the GI tract. In some embodiments, the
ratio of pH5.0 composition to pH7.0 composition is10:1, 9:1, 8:1, 7:1, 6:1, 5:1, 4:1, 3:1, 2: 1, 1:
1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:6, 1:7, 1:8, 1:9, or 1:10.
         In some embodiments, a formulation comprises a mixture of (1) a composition having an
inert carrier coated with Aad-GCRA peptides and an enteric coating that releases the peptides at
                                                    28

pH6.0 ("pH6.0 composition") and (2) a composition having an inert carrier coated with Aad
GCRA peptides and an enteric coating that releases the peptides at pH7.0 ("pH7.0
composition").
        The ratio of pH6.0 composition to pH7.0 composition can be any value between 100:1
(v/v) and 1: 100 (v/v) and can be determined, for example, by the activity of each peptide,
solubility of each peptide, and/or the targeting region of the GI tract. In some embodiments, the
ratio of pH6.0 composition to pH7.0 composition is10:1, 9:1, 8:1, 7:1, 6:1, 5:1, 4:1, 3:1, 2: 1, 1:
1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:6, 1:7, 1:8, 1:9, or 1:10.
        In some embodiments, a formulation comprises a mixture of (1) a composition having an
inert carrier coated with Aad-GCRA peptides and an enteric coating that releases the peptides at
pH5.0 ("pH5.0 composition"); (2) a composition having an inert carrier coated with Aad-GCRA
peptides and an enteric coating that releases the peptides at pH6.0 ("pH6.0 composition") and (3)
a composition having an inert carrier coated with Aad-GCRA and an enteric coating that releases
the peptides at pH7.0 ("pH7.0 composition").
        The ratio of pH5.0 composition to pH6.0 composition to pH7.0 composition can be
determined, for example, by the activity of each peptide, solubility of each peptide, and/or the
targeting region of the GI tract.
        In some embodiments, a formulation comprises a mixture of (1) a composition having an
inert carrier coated with Aad-GCRA peptides and an enteric coating that releases the peptides at
duodenum or jejunum ("duodenum composition") and (2) a composition having an inert carrier
coated with Aad-GCRA peptides and an enteric coating that releases the peptides at ileum,
terminal ileum, or ascending colon ("ileum composition").
        In some embodiments, a formulation comprises a mixture of (1) a composition having an
inert carrier coated with Aad-GCRA peptides and an enteric coating that releases the peptides in
a pH range of 4.5 to 5.5 or in a pH range of 5.5 to 6.5 at duodenum or jejunum ("duodenum
composition"); and (2) a composition having an inert carrier coated with Aad-GCRA peptides
and an enteric coating that releases the peptides in a pH range of 5.5 to 6.5 or in a pH range of
6.5 to 7.5 at ileum, terminal ileum, or ascending colon ("ileum composition").
        The ratio of duodenum composition to ileum composition can be any value between
100:1 (v/v) and 1: 100 (v/v) and can be determined, for example, by the activity of each peptide,
solubility of each peptide, and/or the targeting region of the GI tract. In some embodiments, the
                                                    29

  ratio of duodenum composition to ileum composition is 10:1, 9:1, 8:1, 7:1, 6:1, 5:1, 4:1, 3:1, 2:
  1, 1: 1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:6, 1:7, 1:8, 1:9, or 1:10.
          The targeting region of the GI track includes, but is not limited to, duodenum, jejunum,
  ileum, terminal ileum, and ascending colon.
          In some embodiments, the inert carrier is selected from the group consisting of sorbitol,
  mannitol, EMDEX, and starch. In some embodiments, the carrier is mannitol (e.g.,
  MANNOGEM) or microcrystalline cellulose (e.g., PROSOLV, CELPHERE@, CELPHERE@
  beads). In a preferred embodiment, the carrier is microcrystalline cellulose spheres or spherical
  microcrystalline cellulose, such as Celphere@ SCP-100.
          The enteric coating material is chosen to target the release of the composition of the
  present invention to a specific region of the gastrointestinal tract. The enteric coating material
  preferably comprises one of the following: (1) a pH dependent polymer; (2) a swellable polymer;
  or (3) a degradable composition. More coating materials and formulations can be found in PCT
  publications WO 10/06575 1, WO 12/118972, and WO 12/037380 and US publication
  20120237593, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
          THERAPEUTIC METHODS
          The present invention provides for both prophylactic and therapeutic methods of treating
  a subject at risk of (or susceptible to) developing a disorder or having a disorder that is mediated
  by guanylate cyclase receptor agonists by administering an Aad-GCRA peptide described herein.
          The present invention also provides methods for treating a condition that responds to
  enhanced cGMP levels in a subject by admistering an Aad-GCRA peptide described herein.
          Disorders mediated by the guanylate cyclase receptor agonists and conditions that
  respond to enhanced cGMP levels include lipid metabolism disorders, biliary disorders,
5 gastrointestinal disorders, inflammatory disorders, lung disorders, cancer, cardiac disorders
  including cardiovascular disorders, eye disorders, oral disorders, blood disorders, liver disorders,
  skin disorders, prostate disorders, endocrine disorders, increasing gastrointestinal motility and
  obesity. Lipid metabolism disorders include, but not limited to, dyslipidemia, hyperlipidemia,
  hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, sitosterolemia, familial hypercholesterolemia,
  xanthoma, combined hyperlipidemia, lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency, tangier
  disease, abetalipoproteinemia, erectile dysfunction, fatty liver disease, and hepatitis. Billary
                                                        30

disorders include gallbladder disorders such as for example, gallstones, gall bladder cancer
cholangitis, or primary sclerosing cholangitis; or bile duct disorders such as for
example,cholecystitis, bile duct cancer or fascioliasis. Gastointestinal disorders include for
example, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), non-ulcer
dyspepsia, chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction, functional dyspepsia, colonic pseudo
obstruction, duodenogastric reflux, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), ileus inflammation
(e.g., post-operative ileus), gastroparesis, heartburn (high acidity in the GI tract), constipation
(e.g., chronic constipation, constipation associated with IBS, constipation associated with use of
medications such as opioids, osteoarthritis drugs , osteoporosis drugs; post surigical
constipation, constipation associated with neuropathic disorders). Inflammatory disorders include
tissue and organ inflammation such as kidney inflammation (e.g., nephritis), gastrointestinal
system inflammation (e.g., Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis), IBD, necrotizing enterocolitis
(NEC); pancreatic inflammation (e.g., pancreatis), lung inflammation (e.g., bronchitis or asthma)
or skin inflammation (e.g., psoriasis, eczema). Lung Disorders include for example chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and fibrosis. Cancer includes tissue and organ
carcinogenesis including metatases such as for example gastrointestinal cancer (e.g., gastric
cancer, esophageal cancer, pancreatic cancer colorectal cancer, intestinal cancer, anal cancer,
liver cancer, gallbladder cancer, or colon cancer); lung cancer; thyroid cancer; skin cancer (e.g.,
melanoma); oral cancer; urinary tract cancer (e.g. bladder cancer or kidney cancer); blood cancer
(e.g. myeloma or leukemia) or prostate cancer. Cardiac disorders include for example,
congestive heart failure, trachea cardia hypertension, high cholesterol, or high tryglycerides.
Cardiovascular disorders include for example aneurysm, angina, atherosclerosis, cerebrovascular
accident (stroke), cerebrovasculardisease, congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease,
myocardial infarction (heart attack), or peripheral vascular disease. Liver disorders include for
example cirrhosis and fibrosis. In addition, Aad derviatives of GC-C agonist described herein
may also be useful to facilitate liver regeneration in liver transplant patients. Eye disorders
include for example increased intra-ocular pressure, glaucoma, dry eyes retinal degeneration,
disorders of tear glands or eye inflammation. Skin disorders include for example xerosis. Oral
disorders include for example dry mouth (xerostomia), Sj6gren's syndrome, gum diseases (e.g.,
periodontal disease), or salivary gland duct blockage or malfunction. Prostate disorders include
                                                   31

for example benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Endocrine disorders include for example
diabetes mellitus, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, and cystic fibrosis.
          The term "treatment" refers to reducing or alleviating symptoms in a subject, preventing
symptoms from worsening or progressing, and/or preventing disease in a subject who is free
therefrom. For a given subject, improvement in a symptom, its worsening, regression, or
progression may be determined by any objective or subjective measure. Efficacy of the
treatment may be measured as an improvement in morbidity or mortality (e.g., lengthening of
survival curve for a selected population). Thus, effective treatment would include therapy of
existing disease, control of disease by slowing or stopping its progression, prevention of disease
occurrence, reduction in the number or severity of symptoms, or a combination thereof. The
effect may be shown in a controlled study using one or more statistically significant criteria.
         Intracellular cGMP is produced by exposing, e.g., contacting a tissue (e.g.,
gastrointestinals tissue) or cell with Aad-GCRA peptides. By inducing is meant an increase in
cGMP production compared to a tissue or cell that has not been in contact with Aad-GCRA
peptide or variant. Tissues or cells are directly contacted with an Aad-GCRA peptide or variant.
Alternatively, the Aad-GCRA peptide or variant is administered systemically. Aad-GCRA
peptides or variants are administered in an amount sufficient to increase intracellular cGMP
concentration. cGMP production is measured by a cell-based assay known in the art (25).
         Disorders are treated, prevented or alleviated by administering to a subject, e.g., a
mammal such as a human in need thereof, a therapeutically effective dose of any Aad-GCRA
peptide described herein.
         The Aad-GCRA peptides may be in a pharmaceutical composition in unit dose form,
together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. The term "unit dose form"
refers to a single drug delivery entity, e.g., a tablet, capsule, solution or inhalation formulation.
The amount of peptide present should be sufficient to have a positive therapeutic effect when
administered to a patient (typically, between 10 pg and 3 g). What constitutes a "positive
therapeutic effect" will depend upon the particular condition being treated and will include any
significant improvement in a condition readily recognized by one of skill in the art.
         The present invention also provides a method of colonic cleansing by administering to a
subject in need thereof an effective amount of any compositions of the present invention, for
example an Aad-GCRA peptide described herein.
                                                    32

         This method can be used in cleansing or purging the bowels or colon prior to carrying out
a diagnostic, therapeutic or surgical procedure on the colon, rectum or anus or elsewhere in the
abdomen. The diagnostic or surgical procedure may, for example, be sigmoidoscopy,
colonoscopy, radiographic examination, preparation for patients undergoing bowel surgery, and
other medical or diagnostic procedures. It has been believed that profuse, uncontrolled diarrhea
was necessary to produce adequate cleansing of the colon. This present invention provides a safe
and effective cleansing method for the bowels and colon, without the ingestion of large volumes
of lavage solutions, without the unpleasant, bitter, and dangerous hypertonic salt solutions, thus
providing an improved patients compliance.
         "Subject", as used herein, means an individual. In one aspect, the subject is a mammal
such as a primate, and, in another aspect, the subject is a human. The term "subject" also includes
domesticated animals (e.g., cats, dogs, etc.), and livestock (e.g., cattle, horses, pigs, sheep, goats,
etc.). The subject may be at risk of (or susceptible to) developing a disorder that is mediated by
guanylate cyclase receptor agonists or may have a disorder that is mediated by guanylate cyclase
receptor agonists. The subject may be a human over 50 years old.
         Preferably, the Aad-GCRA peptide used for any methods described herein is Asn -Asp 2_
Aad 3-Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu 6-Cys 7 -Valg-Asn-Val 1 0 -Ala 1 -Cys 12-Thr13-Gly 4-Cys -Leu 6 (SEQ ID NO:
             1  2                                                                1             1   15
                                                                         1 -Cys -Thr13 -Gly1 4 -Cys -Ser   16
1), Asn -Asp -Aad3 -Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu6 -Cys 7 -Valg-Asn-Val 10 -Ala"
(SEQ ID NO: 32), Asn-Asp 2 -Aad3 -Cys 4 -Glu 5 -Leu6 -Cys         7
                                                                    -Valg-Asn 9-Val 10 -Ala" -Cys -Thr 3
Gly 1 4-Cys 15 -Thr16 (SEQ ID NO: 119), Asn-Asp 2-Aad3-Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu 6-Cys 7 -Val-Asn9-Val           10
Ala1 -Cys 12 -Thr 13 -Gly 14 -Cys1-Tyr 6 (SEQ ID NO: 120), dAsn-Asp 2-Aad 3-Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu6
Cys 7 -Valg-Asn 9 -Val 10 -Ala 1 -Cys 12-Thr13 -Gly 1 4-Cys 15 -dLeu 6 (SEQ ID NO: 17), or pyGlul-Asp 2_
Aad 3-Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu 6-Cys 7 -Valg-Asn 9-Val 1 0 -Ala 1 -Cys 1 2-Thr13-Gly 4-Cys -Leu 6 (SEQ ID NO:
56).
         The Aad-GCRA peptides can be administered alone or in combination with other agents.
For example the Aad-GCRA peptides can be administered in combination with inhibitors of
cGMP dependent phosphodiesterase, such as, for example, sulindac sulfone, zaprinast,
motapizone, vardenafil, and sildenafil; one or more other chemotherapeutic agents; or anti
inflammatory drugs such as, for example, steroids or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
(NSAIDs), such as aspirin.
                                                        33

        The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be administered with one or more other
agents, for example, L-glucose, cholera toxin, osmotic colonic evacuants, cathartic, laxatives and
agents for treating chronic constipation, or any combination thereof, for cleansing or purging the
bowels or colon prior to carrying out a diagnostic, therapeutic or surgical procedure on the colon,
rectum or anus or elsewhere in the abdomen. In some embodiments, the compositions (e.g.,
Aad-GCRA peptides) or the formulations described herein can be administered with L-glucose.
        Combination therapy can be achieved by administering two or more agents, e.g., an Aad
GCRA peptide described herein and another compound, each of which is formulated and
administered separately, or by administering two or more agents in a single formulation. Other
combinations are also encompassed by combination therapy. For example, two agents can be
formulated together and administered in conjunction with a separate formulation containing a
third agent. While the two or more agents in the combination therapy can be administered
simultaneously, they need not be. For example, administration of a first agent (or combination of
agents) can precede administration of a second agent (or combination of agents) by minutes,
hours, days, or weeks. Thus, the two or more agents can be administered within minutes of each
other or within 1, 2,3,6,9,12, 15, 18, or 24 hours of each other or within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10, 12, 14 days of each other or within 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 weeks of each other. In some
cases even longer intervals are possible. While in many cases it is desirable that the two or more
agents used in a combination therapy be present in within the patient's body at the same time,
this need not be so.
        The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein may be combined with cGMP-dependent
phosphodiesterase inhibitors, e.g., sulindac sulfone, zaprinast, motapizone, vardenafil, and
sildenafil to further enhance levels of cGMP in the target tissues or organs.
        Combination therapy can also include two or more administrations of one or more of the
agents used in the combination. For example, if agent X and agent Y are used in a combination,
one could administer them sequentially in any combination one or more times, e.g., in the order
X-Y- X, X-X-Y, Y-X-Y, Y-Y-X, X-X-Y-Y, etc.
        Combination therapy can also include the administration of one of the Aad-GCRA
peptides with azothioprine and/or other immunomodulating agents. The immunomodulating
agents may include small molecule drugs and biologics such as Remicade, Humaira, Cimzia etc.
                                                  34

          Combination therapy can also include the administration of two or more agents via
  different routes or locations. For example, (a) one agent is administered orally and another agent
  is administered intravenously or (b) one agent is administered orally and another is administered
  locally. In each case, the agents can either simultaneously or sequentially. Approximate dosages
  for some of the combination therapy agents described herein are found in the "BNF
  Recommended Dose" column of tables on pages 11-17 of WOO1/76632 (the data in the tables
  being attributed to the March 2000 British National Formulary) and can also be found in other
  standard formularies and other drug prescribing directories. For some drugs, the customary
  prescribed dose for an indication will vary somewhat from country to country.
          The Aad-GCRA peptides, alone or in combination, can be combined with any
  pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or medium. Thus, they can be combined with materials that
  do not produce an adverse, allergic or otherwise unwanted reaction when administered to a
  patient. The carriers or mediums used can include solvents, dispersants, coatings, absorption
  promoting agents, controlled release agents, and one or more inert excipients (which include
  starches, polyols, granulating agents, microcrystalline cellulose (e.g. celphere, Celphere beads@),
  diluents, lubricants, binders, disintegrating agents, and the like), etc. If desired, tablet dosages of
  the disclosed compositions may be coated by standard aqueous or nonaqueous techniques.
          A pharmaceutical composition of the invention is formulated to be compatible with its
  intended route of administration. Examples of routes of administration include parenteral, e.g.,
  intravenous, intradermal, subcutaneous, oral (e.g., inhalation), transdermal (topical),
  transmucosal, and rectal administration. Solutions or suspensions used for parenteral,
  intradermal, or subcutaneous application can include the following components: a sterile diluent
  such as water for injection, saline solution, fixed oils, polyethylene glycols, glycerine, propylene
  glycol or other synthetic solvents; antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl
5 parabens; antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite; chelating agents such as
  ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid; buffers such as acetates, citrates or phosphates, and agents for
  the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. The pH can be adjusted with
  acids or bases, such as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. The parenteral preparation can
  be enclosed in ampoules, disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic.
          Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions
  (where water soluble) or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of
                                                     35

sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. For intravenous administration, suitable carriers
include physiological saline, bacteriostatic water, Cremophor ELTM (BASF, Parsippany, N.J.) or
phosphate buffered saline (PBS). In all cases, the composition must be sterile and should be
fluid to the extent that easy syringeability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of
manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of
microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium
containing, for example, water, ethanol, polyol (for example, glycerol, propylene glycol, and
liquid polyethylene glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can
be maintained, for example, by the use of a coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the
required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prevention of the
action of microorganisms can be achieved by various antibacterial and antifungal agents, for
example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, ascorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like. In many
cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic agents, for example, sugars, polyalcohols such as
manitol, sorbitol, sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the injectable
compositions can be brought about by including in the composition an agent which delays
absorption, for example, aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
         Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active compound (e.g.,
an Aad-GCRA peptide) in the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a
combination of ingredients enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization.
Generally, dispersions are prepared by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle
that contains a basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those
enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable
solutions, methods of preparation are vacuum drying and freeze-drying that yields a powder of
the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered
solution thereof.
         Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier. Such as
mannitol, fructooligosaccharides, polyethylene glycol and other excipients. They can be
enclosed in gelatin capsules or compressed into tablets. For the purpose of oral therapeutic
administration, the active compound can be incorporated with excipients and used in the form of
tablets, troches, or capsules. Oral compositions can also be prepared using a fluid carrier for use
as a mouthwash, wherein the compound in the fluid carrier is applied orally and swished and
                                                   36

expectorated or swallowed. Pharmaceutically compatible binding agents, and/or adjuvant
materials can be included as part of the composition. The tablets, pills, capsules, troches and the
like can contain any of the following ingredients, or compounds of a similar nature: a binder
such as microcrystalline cellulose, gum tragacanth or gelatin; an excipient such as starch or
lactose, a disintegrating agent such as alginic acid, Primogel, or corn starch; a lubricant such as
magnesium stearate or Sterotes; a glidant such as colloidal silicon dioxide; a sweetening agent
such as sucrose or saccharin; or a flavoring agent such as peppermint, methyl salicylate, or
orange flavoring.
        For administration by inhalation, the compounds are delivered in the form of an aerosol
spray from pressured container or dispenser which contains a suitable propellant, e.g., a gas such
as carbon dioxide, or a nebulizer.
        Systemic administration can also be by transmucosal or transdermal means. For
transmucosal or transdermal administration, penetrants appropriate to the barrier to be permeated
are used in the formulation. Such penetrants are generally known in the art, and include, for
example, for transmucosal administration, detergents, bile salts, and fusidic acid derivatives.
Transmucosal administration can be accomplished through the use of nasal sprays or
suppositories. For transdermal administration, the active compounds are formulated into
ointments, salves, gels, or creams as generally known in the art.
        The compounds can also be prepared in the form of suppositories (e.g., with conventional
suppository bases such as cocoa butter and other glycerides) or retention enemas for rectal delivery.
        In one embodiment, the active compounds are prepared with carriers that will protect the
compound against rapid elimination from the body, such as a controlled release formulation,
including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable, biocompatible
polymers can be used, such as ethylene vinyl acetate, polyanhydrides, polyglycolic acid,
collagen, polyorthoesters, and polylactic acid. Methods for preparation of such formulations will
be apparent to those skilled in the art. The materials can also be obtained commercially from
Alza Corporation and Nova Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Liposomal suspensions (including liposomes
targeted to infected cells with monoclonal antibodies to viral antigens) can also be used as
pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. These can be prepared according to methods known to
those skilled in the art, for example, as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,522,811, incorporated fully
herein by reference.
                                                  37

        It is especially advantageous to formulate oral or parenteral compositions in dosage unit
form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers
to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the subject to be treated; each unit
containing a predetermined quantity of active compound calculated to produce the desired
therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for
the dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by and directly dependent on the unique
characteristics of the active compound and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved.
        The pharmaceutical compositions can be included in a container, pack, or dispenser
together with instructions for administration.
        Compositions of the present invention may also optionally include other therapeutic
ingredients, anti-caking agents, preservatives, sweetening agents, colorants, flavors, desiccants,
plasticizers, dyes, glidants, anti-adherents, anti-static agents, surfactants (wetting agents), anti
oxidants, film- coating agents, and the like. Any such optional ingredient must be compatible
with the compound described herein to insure the stability of the formulation.
         The composition may contain other additives as needed, including for exanple lactose,
glucose, fructose, galactose, trehalose, sucrose, maltose, raffnose, maltitol, melezitose,
stachyose, lactitol, palatinite, starch, xylitol, mannitol, myoinositol, and the like, and hydrates
thereof, and amino acids, for example alanine, glycine and betaine, and polypeptides and
proteins, for example albumen.
        Examples of excipients for use as the pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and the
pharmaceutically acceptable inert carriers and the aforementioned additional ingredients include,
but are not limited to binders, fillers, disintegrants, lubricants, anti-microbial agents, and coating
agents such as: BINDERS: corn starch, potato starch, other starches, gelatin, natural and
synthetic gums such as acacia, xanthan, sodium alginate, alginic acid, other alginates, powdered
tragacanth, guar gum, cellulose and its derivatives (e.g., ethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate,
carboxymethyl cellulose calcium, sodium carboxymethyl cellulose), polyvinyl pyrrolidone (e.g.,
povidone, crospovidone, copovidone, etc), methyl cellulose, Methocel, pre-gelatinized starch
(e.g., STARCH 1500@ and STARCH 1500 LM@, sold by Colorcon, Ltd.), hydroxypropyl
methyl cellulose, microcrystalline cellulose (FMC Corporation, Marcus Hook, PA, USA), or
mixtures thereof, FILLERS: talc, calcium carbonate (e.g., granules or powder), dibasic calcium
phosphate, tribasic calcium phosphate, calcium sulfate (e.g., granules or powder),
                                                    38

microcrystalline cellulose, powdered cellulose, dextrates, kaolin, mannitol, silicic acid, sorbitol,
starch, pre-gelatinized starch, dextrose, fructose, honey, lactose anhydrate, lactose monohydrate,
lactose and aspartame, lactose and cellulose, lactose and microcrystalline cellulose, maltodextrin,
maltose, mannitol, microcrystalline cellulose &amp; guar gum, molasses, sucrose,or mixtures
thereof, DISINTEGRANTS: agar-agar, alginic acid, calcium carbonate, microcrystalline
cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, crospovidone, polacrilin potassium, sodium starch glycolate,
potato or tapioca starch, other starches, pre-gelatinized starch, clays, other algins, other
celluloses, gums (like gellan), low-substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose, or mixtures thereof,
LUBRICANTS: calcium stearate, magnesium stearate, mineral oil, light mineral oil, glycerin,
sorbitol, mannitol, polyethylene glycol, other glycols, stearic acid, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium
stearyl fumarate, vegetable based fatty acids lubricant, talc, hydrogenated vegetable oil (e.g.,
peanut oil, cottonseed oil, sunflower oil, sesame oil, olive oil, corn oil and soybean oil), zinc
stearate, ethyl oleate, ethyl laurate, agar, syloid silica gel (AEROSIL 200, W.R. Grace Co.,
Baltimore, MD USA), a coagulated aerosol of synthetic silica (Deaussa Co., Piano, TX USA), a
pyrogenic silicon dioxide (CAB-O-SIL, Cabot Co., Boston, MA USA), or mixtures thereof,
ANTI-CAKING AGENTS: calcium silicate, magnesium silicate, silicon dioxide, colloidal
silicon dioxide, talc, or mixtures thereof, ANTIMICROBIAL AGENTS: benzalkonium chloride,
benzethonium chloride, benzoic acid, benzyl alcohol, butyl paraben, cetylpyridinium chloride,
cresol, chlorobutanol, dehydroacetic acid, ethylparaben, methylparaben, phenol, phenylethyl
alcohol, phenoxyethanol, phenylmercuric acetate, phenylmercuric nitrate, potassium sorbate,
propylparaben, sodium benzoate, sodium dehydroacetate, sodium propionate, sorbic acid,
thimersol, thymo, or mixtures thereof, and COATING AGENTS: sodium carboxymethyl
cellulose, cellulose acetate phthalate, ethylcellulose, gelatin, pharmaceutical glaze,
hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (hypromellose), hydroxypropyl methyl
cellulose phthalate, methylcellulose, polyethylene glycol, polyvinyl acetate phthalate, shellac,
sucrose, titanium dioxide, carnauba wax, microcrystalline wax, gellan gum, maltodextrin,
methacrylates, microcrystalline cellulose and carrageenan or mixtures thereof.
        The formulation can also include other excipients and categories thereof including but not
limited to L-histidine, Pluronic@, Poloxamers (such as Lutrol@ and Poloxamer 188), ascorbic
acid, glutathione, permeability enhancers (e.g. lipids, sodium cholate, acylcarnitine, salicylates,
mixed bile salts, fatty acid micelles, chelators, fatty acid, surfactants, medium chain glycerides),
                                                    39

protease inhibitors (e.g. soybean trypsin inhibitor, organic acids), pH lowering agents and
absorption enhancers effective to promote bioavailability (including but not limited to those
described in US6086918 and US5912014), creams and lotions (like maltodextrin and
carrageenans); materials for chewable tablets (like dextrose, fructose, lactose monohydrate,
lactose and aspartame, lactose and cellulose, maltodextrin, maltose, mannitol, microcrystalline
cellulose and guar gum, sorbitol crystalline); parenterals (like mannitol and povidone);
plasticizers (like dibutyl sebacate, plasticizers for coatings, polyvinylacetate phthalate); powder
lubricants (like glyceryl behenate); soft gelatin capsules (like sorbitol special solution); spheres
for coating (like sugar spheres); spheronization agents (like glyceryl behenate and
microcrystalline cellulose); suspending/gelling agents (like carrageenan, gellan gum, mannitol,
microcrystalline cellulose, povidone, sodium starch glycolate, xanthan gum); sweeteners (like
aspartame, aspartame and lactose, dextrose, fructose, honey, maltodextrin, maltose, mannitol,
molasses, sorbitol crystalline, sorbitol special solution, sucrose); wet granulation agents (like
calcium carbonate, lactose anhydrous, lactose monohydrate, maltodextrin, mannitol,
microcrystalline cellulose, povidone, starch), caramel, carboxymethylcellulose sodium, cherry
cream flavor and cherry flavor, citric acid anhydrous, citric acid, confectioner's sugar, D&C Red
No. 33, D&C Yellow #10 Aluminum Lake, disodium edetate, ethyl alcohol 15%, FD&C Yellow
No. 6 aluminum lake, FD&C Blue # 1 Aluminum Lake, FD&C Blue No. 1, FD&C blue no. 2
aluminum lake, FD&C Green No.3, FD&C Red No. 40, FD&C Yellow No. 6 Aluminum Lake,
FD&C Yellow No. 6, FD&C Yellow No.10, glycerol palmitostearate, glyceryl monostearate,
indigo carmine, lecithin, manitol, methyl and propyl parabens, mono ammonium glycyrrhizinate,
natural and artificial orange flavor, pharmaceutical glaze, poloxamer 188, Polydextrose,
polysorbate 20, polysorbate 80, polyvidone, pregelatinized corn starch, pregelatinized starch, red
iron oxide, saccharin sodium, sodium carboxymethyl ether, sodium chloride, sodium citrate,
sodium phosphate, strawberry flavor, synthetic black iron oxide, synthetic red iron oxide,
titanium dioxide, and white wax.
        Solid oral dosage forms may optionally be treated with coating systems (e.g. Opadry@ fx
film coating system, for example Opadry@ blue (OY-LS-20921), Opadry@ white (YS-2-7063),
Opadry@ white (YS- 1-7040), and black ink (S- 1-8 106).
        The agents either in their free form or as a salt can be combined with a polymer such as
polylactic-glycoloic acid (PLGA), poly-(I)-lactic-glycolic-tartaric acid (P(I)LGT) (WO
                                                   40

01/12233), polyglycolic acid (U.S. 3,773,919), polylactic acid (U.S. 4,767,628), poly( 6
caprolactone) and poly(alkylene oxide) (U.S. 20030068384) to create a sustained release
formulation. Such formulations can be used to implants that release a polypeptide or another
agent over a period of a few days, a few weeks or several months depending on the polymer, the
particle size of the polymer, and the size of the implant (See, e.g., U.S. 6,620,422). Other
sustained release formulations and polymers for use in are described in EP 0 467 389 A2, WO
93/24150, U.S. 5,612,052, WO 97/40085, WO 03/075887, WO 01/01964A2, U.S. 5,922,356,
WO 94/155587, WO 02/074247A2, WO 98/25642, U.S. 5,968,895, U.S. 6,180,608, U.S.
20030171296, U.S. 20020176841, U.S. 5,672,659, U.S. 5,893,985, U.S. 5,134,122, U.S.
 5,192,741, U.S. 5,192,741, U.S. 4,668,506, U.S. 4,713,244, U.S. 5,445,832 U.S. 4,931,279, U.S.
5,980,945, WO 02/058672, WO 97/26015, WO 97/04744, and US20020019446. In such
sustained release formulations microparticles (Delie and Blanco-Prieto 2005 Molecule 10:65-80)
of polypeptide are combined with microparticles of polymer. One or more sustained release
implants can be placed in the large intestine, the small intestine or both. U.S. 6,011,011 and WO
94/06452 describe a sustained release formulation providing either polyethylene glycols (i.e.
PEG 300 and PEG 400) or triacetin. WO 03/053401 describes a formulation which may both
enhance bioavailability and provide controlled release of the agent within the GI tract.
Additional controlled release formulations are described in WO 02/38129, EP 326151, U.S.
5,236,704, WO 02/30398, WO 98/13029; U.S. 20030064105, U.S. 20030138488A1, U.S.
20030216307A1, U.S. 6,667,060, WO 01/49249, WO 01/49311, WO 01/49249, WO 01/49311,
and U.S. 5,877,224 materials which may include those described in W004041195 (including the
seal and enteric coating described therein) and pH-sensitive coatings that achieve delivery in the
colon including those described in US4,910,021 and W09001329. US4910021 describes using a
pH-sensitive material to coat a capsule. W09001329 describes using pH-sensitive coatings on
beads containing acid, where the acid in the bead core prolongs dissolution of the pH-sensitive
coating. U. S. Patent No. 5,175,003 discloses a dual mechanism polymer mixture composed of
pH-sensitive enteric materials and film-forming plasticizers capable of conferring permeability to
the enteric material, for use in drug-delivery systems; a matrix pellet composed of a dual
mechanism polymer mixture permeated with a drug and sometimes covering a pharmaceutically
neutral nucleus; a membrane- coated pellet comprising a matrix pellet coated with a dual
mechanism polymer mixture envelope of the same or different composition; and a
                                                   41

pharmaceutical dosage form containing matrix pellets. The matrix pellet releases acid-soluble
drugs by diffusion in acid pH and by disintegration at pH levels of nominally about 5.0 or higher.
        The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein may be formulated in the pH triggered
targeted control release systems described in W004052339. The agents described herein may be
formulated according to the methodology described in any of W003105812 (extruded
hyrdratable polymers); W00243767 (enzyme cleavable membrane translocators); W003007913
and W003086297 (mucoadhesive systems); W002072075 (bilayer laminated formulation
comprising pH lowering agent and absorption enhancer); W004064769 (amidated polypeptides);
W005063156 (solid lipid suspension with pseudotropic and/or thixotropic properties upon
melting); W003035029 and W003035041 (erodible, gastric retentive dosage forms);
US5007790 and US5972389 (sustained release dosage forms); W0041 1271 1 (oral extended
release compositions); W005027878, W002072033, and W002072034 (delayed release
compositions with natural or synthetic gum); W005030182 (controlled release formulations with
an ascending rate of release); W005048998 (microencapsulation system); US Patent 5,952,314
(biopolymer); US5,108,758 (glassy amylose matrix delivery); US 5,840,860 (modified starch
based delivery). JP10324642 (delivery system comprising chitosan and gastric resistant material
such as wheat gliadin or zein); US 5,866,619 and US 6,368,629 (saccharide containing polymer);
US 6,531,152 (describes a drug delivery system containing a water soluble core (Ca pectinate or
other water-insoluble polymers) and outer coat which bursts (e.g. hydrophobic polymer
Eudragrit)); US 6,234,464; US 6,403,130 (coating with polymer containing casein and high
methoxy pectin; WOO 174 175 (Maillard reaction product); W005063206 (solubility increasing
formulation); W0040 19872 (transferring fusion proteins).
        The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein may be formulated using gastrointestinal
retention system technology (GIRES; Merrion Pharmaceuticals). GIRES comprises a controlled
release dosage form inside an inflatable pouch, which is placed in a drug capsule for oral
administration. Upon dissolution of the capsule, a gas-generating system inflates the pouch in the
stomach where it is retained for 16-24 hours, all the time releasing agents described herein.
        The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be formulated in an osmotic device
including the ones disclosed in US4,503,030, US5,609,590 and US5,358,502. US4,503,030
discloses an osmotic device for dispensing a drug to certain pH regions of the gastrointestinal
tract. More particularly, the invention relates to an osmotic device comprising a wall formed of a
                                                   42

  semi-permeable pH sensitive composition that surrounds a compartment containing a drug, with
  a passageway through the wall connecting the exterior of the device with the compartment. The
  device delivers the drug at a controlled rate in the region of the gastrointestinal tract having a pH
  of less than 3.5, and the device self- destructs and releases all its drug in the region of the
  gastrointestinal tract having a pH greater than 3.5, thereby providing total availability for drug
  absorption. U.S. Patent Nos. 5,609,590 and 5, 358,502 disclose an osmotic bursting device for
  dispensing a beneficial agent to an aqueous environment. The device comprises a beneficial
  agent and osmagent surrounded at least in part by a semi-permeable membrane. The beneficial
  agent may also function as the osmagent. The semi-permeable membrane is permeable to water
  and substantially impermeable to the beneficial agent and osmagent. A trigger means is attached
  to the semi-permeable membrane (e.g., joins two capsule halves). The trigger means is activated
  by a pH of from 3 to 9 and triggers the eventual, but sudden, delivery of the beneficial agent.
  These devices enable the pH-triggered release of the beneficial agent core as a bolus by osmotic
  bursting.
           EXEMPLARY AGENTS FOR COMBINATION THERAPY
  Analgesic Agents
           The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy with an
  analgesic agent, e.g., an analgesic compound or an analgesic polypeptide. These polypeptides
  and compounds can be administered with the Aad-GCRA peptides described herein
  (simultaneously or sequentially). They can also be optionally covalently linked or attached to an
  agent described herein to create therapeutic conjugates. Among the useful analgesic agents are:
  Calcium channel blockers, 5HT receptor antagonists (for example 5HT3, 5HT4 and 5HTl
  receptor antagonists), opioid receptor agonists (loperamide, fedotozine, and fentanyl), NKl
5 receptor antagonists, CCK receptor agonists (e.g., loxiglumide), NKI receptor antagonists, NK3
  receptor antagonists, norepinephrine-serotonin reuptake inhibitors (NSRI), vanilloid and
  cannabanoid receptor agonists, and sialorphin. Analgesics agents in the various classes are
  described in the literature.
           Among the useful analgesic polypeptides are sialorphin-related polypeptides, including
  those comprising the amino acid sequence QHNPR (SEQ ID NO: 95), including: VQHNPR
  (SEQ ID NO: 96); VRQHNPR (SEQ ID NO: 97); VRGQHNPR (SEQ ID NO: 98);
                                                     43

VRGPQHNPR (SEQ ID NO: 99); VRGPRQHNPR (SEQ ID NO: 100); VRGPRRQHNPR (SEQ
ID NO: 101); and RQHNPR (SEQ ID NO: 102). Sialorphin-related polypeptides bind to
neprilysin and inhibit neprilysin- mediated breakdown of substance P and Met-enkephalin.
Thus, compounds or polypeptides that are inhibitors of neprilysin are useful analgesic agents
which can be administered with the polypeptides described herein in a co-therapy or linked to the
polypeptides described herein, e.g., by a covalent bond. Sialophin and related polypeptides are
described in U.S. Patent 6,589,750; U.S. 20030078200 Al; and WO 02/051435 A2.
         Opioid receptor antagonists and agonists can be administered with the GCRA peptides
described herein in co-therapy or linked to the agent described herein, e.g., by a covalent bond.
For example, opioid receptor antagonists such as naloxone, naltrexone, methyl nalozone,
nalmefene, cypridime, beta funaltrexamine, naloxonazine, naltrindole, and nor-binaltorphimine
are thought to be useful in the treatment of IBS. It can be useful to formulate opioid antagonists
of this type is a delayed and sustained release formulation such that initial release of the
antagonist is in the mid to distal small intestine and/or ascending colon. Such antagonists are
described in WO 01/32180 A2. Enkephalin pentapeptide (HOE825; Tyr-D-Lys-Gly-Phe-L
homoserine) (SEQ ID NO: 103) is an agonist of the mu and delta opioid receptors and is thought
to be useful for increasing intestinal motility {Eur. J. Pharm. 219:445, 1992), and this
polypeptide can be used in conjunction with the polypeptides described herein. Also useful is
trimebutine which is thought to bind to mu/delta/kappa opioid receptors and activate release of
motilin and modulate the release of gastrin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, gastrin and
glucagons. Kappa opioid receptor agonists such as fedotozine, asimadoline, and
ketocyclazocine, and compounds described in WO03/097051 and WO05/007626 can be used
with or linked to the polypeptides described herein. In addition, mu opioid receptor agonists
such as morphine, diphenyloxylate, frakefamide (H-Tyr-D-Ala-Phe(F)-Phe-NH 2 (SEQ ID NO:
104); WO 01/019849 Al) and loperamide can be used.
         Tyr-Arg (kyotorphin) is a dipeptide that acts by stimulating the release of met
enkephalins to elicit an analgesic effect (J. Biol. Chem 262:8165, 1987). Kyotorphin can be used
with or linked to the Aad-GCRA peptides described herein.
         Chromogranin-derived polypeptide (CgA 47-66; See, e.g., Ghia et al. 2004 Regulatory
polypeptides 119:199) can be used with or linked to the Aad-GCRA peptides described herein.
                                                   44

           CCK receptor agonists such as caerulein from amphibians and other species are useful
  analgesic agents that can be used with or linked to the Aad-GCRA peptides described herein.
          Conotoxin polypeptides represent a large class of analgesic polypeptides that act at
  voltage gated calcium channels, NMDA receptors or nicotinic receptors. These polypeptides can
  be used with or linked to the polypeptides described herein.
          Peptide analogs of thymulin (FR Application 2830451) can have analgesic activity and
  can be used with or linked to the polypeptides described herein.
          CCK (CCKa or CCKb) receptor antagonists, including loxiglumide and dexloxiglumide
  (the R- isomer of loxiglumide) (WO 88/05774) can have analgesic activity and can be used with
  or linked to the polypeptides described herein.
          Other useful analgesic agents include 5-HT4 agonists such as tegaserod (Zelnorm@),
  mosapride, metoclopramide, zacopride, cisapride, renzapride, benzimidazolone derivatives such
  as BIMU 1 and BIMU 8, and lirexapride. Such agonists are described in: EP1321 142 Al, WO
  03/053432A1, EP 505322 Al, EP 505322 Bl, US 5,510,353, EP 507672 Al, EP 507672 Bl, and
  US 5,273,983.
          Calcium channel blockers such as ziconotide and related compounds described in, for
  example, EP625162B1, US 5,364,842, US 5,587,454, US 5,824,645, US 5,859,186, US
  5,994,305, US 6087,091, US 6,136,786, WO 93/13128 Al, EP 1336409 Al, EP 835126 Al, EP
  835126 B1, US 5,795,864, US 5,891,849, US 6,054,429, WO 97/01351 Al, can be used with or
  linked to the polypeptides described herein.
          Various antagonists of the NK-I, NK-2, and NK-3 receptors (for a review see Giardina et
  al. 2003.Drugs 6:758) can be can be used with or linked to the polypeptides described herein.
          NKl receptor antagonists such as: aprepitant (Merck & Co Inc), vofopitant, ezlopitant
  (Pfizer, Inc.), R-673 (Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd), SR-48968 (Sanofi Synthelabo), CP-122,721
5 (Pfizer, Inc.), GW679769 (Glaxo Smith Kline), TAK-637 (Takeda/Abbot), SR-14033, and
  related compounds described in, for example, EP 873753 Al, US 20010006972 Al, US
  20030109417 Al, WO 01/52844 Al, can be used with or linked to the polypeptides described
  herein.
          NK-2 receptor antagonists such as nepadutant (Menarini Ricerche SpA), saredutant
  (Sanoft- Synthelabo), GW597599 (Glaxo Smith Kline), SR-144190 (Sanoft-Synthelabo) and
  UK-290795 (Pfizer Inc) can be used with or linked to the polypeptides described herein.
                                                  45

        NK3 receptor antagonists such as osanetant (SR-142801; Sanoft-Synthelabo), SSR
241586, talnetant and related compounds described in, for example, WO 02/094187 A2, EP
876347 Al, WO 97/21680 Al, US 6,277,862, WO 98/1 1090, WO 95/28418, WO 97/19927, and
Boden et al. (J Med Chem. 39:1664-75, 1996) can be used with or linked to the polypeptides
described herein.
        Norepinephrine-serotonin reuptake inhibitors (NSRI) such as milnacipran and related
compounds described in WO 03/077897 Al can be used with or linked to the polypeptides
described herein.
        Vanilloid receptor antagonists such as arvanil and related compouds described in WO
01/64212 Al can be used with or linked to the polypeptides described herein.
        The analgesic polypeptides and compounds can be administered with the polypeptides
and agonists described herein (simultaneously or sequentially). The analgesic agents can also be
covalently linked to the polypeptides and agonists described herein to create therapeutic
conjugates. Where the analgesic is a polypeptide and is covalently linked to an agent described
herein the resulting polypeptide may also include at least one trypsin cleavage site. When
present within the polypeptide, the analgesic polypeptide may be preceded by (if it is at the
carboxy terminus) or followed by (if it is at the amino terminus) a trypsin cleavage site that
allows release of the analgesic polypeptide.
        In addition to sialorphin-related polypeptides, analgesic polypeptides include: AspPhe,
endomorphin-1, endomorphin-2, nocistatin, dalargin, lupron, ziconotide, and substance P.
Agents to Treat GastrointestinalDisorders
         Examples of additional therapeutic agents to treat gastrointestinal and other disorders
include agents to treat constipation (e.g., a chloride channel activator such as the bicylic fatty
acid, Lubiprostone (formerly known as SPI-021 1; Sucampo Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Bethesda,
MD), a laxative (e.g. a bulk-forming laxative (e.g. nonstarch polysaccharides, Colonel Tablet
(polycarbophil calcium), Plantago Ovata@, Equalactin@ (Calcium Polycarbophil)), fiber (e.g.
FIBERCON@ (Calcium Polycarbophil), an osmotic laxative, a stimulant laxative (such as
diphenylmethanes (e.g. bisacodyl), anthraquinones (e.g. cascara, senna), and surfactant laxatives
(e.g. castor oil, docusates), an emollient/lubricating agent (such as mineral oil, glycerine, and
docusates), MiraLax (Braintree Laboratories, Braintree MA), dexloxiglumide (Forest
Laboratories, also known as CR 2017 Rottapharm (Rotta Research Laboratorium SpA)), saline
                                                   46

laxatives, enemas, suppositories, and CR 3700 (Rottapharm (Rotta Research Laboratorium SpA);
acid reducing agents such as proton pump inhibitors (e.g., omeprazole (Prilosec@), esomeprazole
(Nexium@), lansoprazole (Prevacid@), pantoprazole (Protonix@) and rabeprazole (Aciphex@))
and Histamine H2 -receptor antagonist (also known as H2 receptor blockers including
cimetidine, ranitidine, famotidine and nizatidine); prokinetic agents including itopride,
octreotide, bethanechol, metoclopramide (Reglan@), domperidone (Motilium@), erythromycin
(and derivatives thereof) or cisapride (propulsid@); Prokineticin polypeptides homologs, variants
and chimeras thereof including those described in US 7,052,674 which can be used with or
linked to the polypeptides described herein; pro-motility agents such as the vasostatin-derived
polypeptide, chromogranin A (4-16) (See, e.g., Ghia et al. 2004 Regulatory polypeptides 121:31)
or motilin agonists (e.g., GM-611 or mitemcinal fumarate) or nociceptin/Orphanin FQ receptor
modulators (US20050169917); other peptides which can bind to and/or activate GC-C including
those described in US20050287067; complete or partial 5HT (e.g. 5HTIl, 5HT2, 5HT3, 5HT4)
receptor agonists or antagonists (including 5HTIA antagonists (e.g. AGI-OOl (AGI
therapeutics), 5HT2B antagonists (e.g. PGN 1091 and PGNl 164 (Pharmagene Laboratories
Limited), and 5HT4 receptor agonists (such as tegaserod (ZELNORM@), prucalopride,
mosapride, metoclopramide, zacopride, cisapride, renzapride, benzimidazolone derivatives such
as BIMU 1 and BIMU 8, and lirexapride). Such agonists/modulators are described in:
EP1321142 Al, WO 03/053432A1, EP 505322 Al, EP 505322 Bl, US 5,510,353, EP 507672 Al,
EP 507672 Bl, US 5,273,983, and US 6,951,867); 5HT3 receptor agonists such as MKC-733;
and 5HT3 receptor antagonists such as DDP-225 (MCI-225; Dynogen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.),
cilansetron (Calmactin@), alosetron (Lotronex@), Ondansetron HCl (Zofran@), Dolasetron
(ANZEMET@), palonosetron (Aloxi@), Granisetron (Kytril@), YM060(ramosetron; Astellas
Pharma Inc.; ramosetron may be given as a daily dose of 0.002 to 0.02 mg as described in
EP01588707) and ATI-7000 (Aryx Therapeutics, Santa Clara CA); muscarinic receptor agonists;
anti-inflammatory agents; antispasmodics including but not limited to anticholinergic drugs (like
dicyclomine (e.g. Colimex@, Formulex@, Lomine@, Protylol@, Visceral@, Spasmoban@,
Bentyl@, Bentylol@), hyoscyamine (e.g. IB-Stat@, Nulev@, Levsin@, Levbid@, Levsinex
Timecaps@, Levsin/SL@, Anaspaz@, A-Spas S/L@, Cystospaz@, Cystospaz-M@, Donnamar@,
Colidrops Liquid Pediatric@, Gastrosed@, Hyco Elixir@, Hyosol@, Hyospaz@, Hyosyne@,
Losamine@, Medispaz@, Neosol@, Spacol@, Spasdel@, Symax@, Symax SL@), Donnatal (e.g.
                                                 47

Donnatal Extentabs@), clidinium (e.g. Quarzan, in combination with Librium = Librax),
methantheline (e.g. Banthine), Mepenzolate (e.g. Cantil), homatropine (e.g. hycodan, Homapin),
Propantheline bromide (e.g. Pro-Banthine), Glycopyrrolate (e.g. Robinul@, Robinul Forte@),
scopolamine (e.g. Transderm-Scop@, Transderm-V@), hyosine-N-butylbromide (e.g.
Buscopan@), Pirenzepine (e.g. Gastrozepin@) Propantheline Bromide (e.g. Propanthel@),
dicycloverine (e.g. Merbentyl@), glycopyrronium bromide (e.g. Glycopyrrolate@), hyoscine
hydrobromide, hyoscine methobromide, methanthelinium, and octatropine); peppermint oil; and
direct smooth muscle relaxants like cimetropium bromide, mebeverine (DUSPATAL@,
DUSPATALIN@, COLOFAC MR@, COLOTAL@), otilonium bromide (octilonium),
pinaverium (e.g. Dicetel@ (pinaverium bromide; Solvay S. A.)), Spasfon@ (hydrated
phloroglucinol and trimethylphloroglucinol)and trimebutine (including trimebutine maleate
(Modulon@); antidepressants, including but not limited to those listed herein, as well as tricyclic
antidepressants like amitriptyline (Elavil@), desipramine (Norpramin@), imipramine
(Tofranil@), amoxapine (Asendin@), nortriptyline; the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors
(SSRTs) like paroxetine (Paxil@), fluoxetine (Prozac@), sertraline (Zoloft@), and citralopram
(Celexa@); and others like doxepin (Sinequan@) and trazodone (Desyrel@); centrally-acting
analgesic agents such as opioid receptor agonists, opioid receptor antagonists (e.g., naltrexone);
agents for the treatment of Inflammatory bowel disease; agents for the treatment of Crohn's
disease and/or ulcerative colitis (e.g., alequel (Enzo Biochem, Inc.; Farmingsale, NY), the anti
inflammatory polypeptide RDP58 (Genzyme, Inc.; Cambridge, MA), and TRAFICET-ENTM
(ChemoCentryx, Inc.; San Carlos, CA); agents that treat gastrointestinal or visceral pain; agents
that increase cGMP levels (as described in US20040121994) like adrenergic receptor
antagonists, dopamine receptor agonists and PDE (phosphodiesterase) inhibitors including but
not limited to those disclosed herein; purgatives that draw fluids to the intestine (e.g.,
VISICOL@, a combination of sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate and sodium phosphate
dibasic anhydrate); Corticotropin Releasing Factor (CRF) receptor antagonists (including NBI
34041 (Neurocrine Biosciences, San Diego, CA), CRH9-41, astressin, R121919 (Janssen
Pharmaceutica), CP154,526, NBI-27914, Antalarmin, DMP696 (Bristol-Myers Squibb) CP
316,311 (Pfizer, Inc.), SB723620 (GSK), GW876008 (Neurocrine/Glaxo Smith Kline), ONO
2333Ms (Ono Pharmaceuticals), TS-041 (Janssen), AAG561 (Novartis) and those disclosed in
US 5,063,245, US 5,861,398, US20040224964, US20040198726, US20040176400,
                                                   48

US20040171607, US20040110815, US20040006066, and US20050209253); glucagon- like
polypeptides (glp-1) and analogues thereof (including exendin-4 and GTP-010 (Gastrotech
Pharma A)) and inhibitors of DPP-IV (DPP-IV mediates the inactivation of glp-1); tofisopam,
enantiomerically-pure R-tofisopam, and pharmaceutically-acceptable salts thereof (US
20040229867); tricyclic anti-depressants of the dibenzothiazepine type including but not limited
to Dextofisopam@ (Vela Pharmaceuticals), tianeptine (Stablon@) and other agents described in
US 6,683,072; (E)-4 (1 ,3bis(cyclohexylmethyl)-1 ,2,34,-tetrahydro-2,6-diono-9H-purin-8
yl)cinnamic acid nonaethylene glycol methyl ether ester and related compounds described in WO
02/067942; the probiotic PROBACTRIX@ (The BioBalance Corporation; New York, NY)
which contains microorganisms useful in the treatment of gastrointestinal disorders; antidiarrheal
drugs including but not limited to loperamide (Imodium, Pepto Diarrhea), diphenoxylate with
atropine (Lomotil, Lomocot), cholestyramine (Questran, Cholybar), atropine (Co-Phenotrope,
Diarsed, Diphenoxylate, Lofene, Logen, Lonox, Vi-Atro, atropine sulfate injection) and
Xifaxan@ (rifaximin; Salix Pharmaceuticals Ltd), TZP-201(Tranzyme Pharma Inc.), the
neuronal acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) blocker AGI-004 (AGI therapeutics), and bismuth
subsalicylate (Pepto-bismol); anxiolytic drugs including but not limited toAtivan (lorazepam),
alprazolam (Xanax@), chlordiazepoxide/clidinium (Librium@, Librax@), clonazepam
(Klonopin@), clorazepate (Tranxene@), diazepam (Valium@), estazolam (ProSom@),
flurazepam (Dalmane@), oxazepam (Serax@), prazepam (Centrax@), temazepam (Restoril@),
triazolam (Halcion@; Bedelix@ (Montmorillonite beidellitic; Ipsen Ltd), Solvay SLV332
(ArQuIe Inc), YKP (SK Pharma), Asimadoline (Tioga Pharmaceuticals/Merck), AGI-003 (AGI
Therapeutics); neurokinin antagonists including those described in US20060040950; potassium
channel modulators including those described in US7,002,015; the serotonin modulator
AZD7371 (AstraZeneca PIc); M3 muscarinic receptor antagonists such as darifenacin (Enablex;
Novartis AG and zamifenacin (Pfizer); herbal and natural therapies including but not limited to
acidophilus, chamomile tea, evening primrose oil, fennel seeds,wormwood, comfrey, and
compounds of Bao-Ji-Wan (magnolol, honokiol, imperatorin, and isoimperatorin) as in
US6923992; and compositions comprising lysine and an anti-stress agent for the treatment of
irritable bowel syndrome as described in EPO 1550443.
 Insulin and Insulin ModulatingAgents
                                                49

           The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy with
  insulin and related compounds including primate, rodent, or rabbit insulin including biologically
  active variants thereof including allelic variants, more preferably human insulin available in
  recombinant form. Sources of human insulin include pharmaceutically acceptable and sterile
  formulations such as those available from Eli Lilly (Indianapolis, Ind. 46285) as HumulinTM
  (human insulin rDNA origin). See, the THE PHYSICIAN'S DESK REFERENCE, 55.sup.th Ed.
  (2001) Medical Economics, Thomson Healthcare (disclosing other suitable human insulins).
           The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can also be used in combination therapy with
  agents that can boost insulin effects or levels of a subject upon administration, e.g. glipizide
  and/or rosiglitazone. The polypeptides and agonistsdescribed herein can be used in
  combitherapy with SYMLIN@ (pramlintide acetate) and Exenatide@ (synthetic exendin-4; a 39
  aa polypeptide).
  Agents for the Treatment of PostoperativeIleus
          The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can also be used in combination therapy with
  agents (e.g., Entereg TM (alvimopan; formerly called ado IOr/ ADL 8-2698), conivaptan and
  related agents describe in US 6,645,959) used for the treatment of postoperative ileus and other
  disorders.
  Anti-Hypertensive Agents
          The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy with an
  anti-hypertensive agent including but not limited to: (1) diuretics, such as thiazides, including
  chlorthalidone, chlorthiazide, dichlorophenamide, hydroflumethiazide, indapamide, polythiazide,
  and hydrochlorothiazide; loop diuretics, such as bumetanide, ethacrynic acid, furosemide, and
  torsemide; potassium sparing agents, such as amiloride, and triamterene; carbonic anhydrase
  inhibitors, osmotics(such as glycerin) and aldosterone antagonists, such as spironolactone,
5 epirenone, and the like; (2) beta-adrenergic blockers such as acebutolol, atenolol, betaxolol,
  bevantolol, bisoprolol, bopindolol, carteolol, carvedilol, celiprolol, esmolol, indenolol,
  metaprolol, nadolol, nebivolol, penbutolol, pindolol, propanolol, sotalol, tertatolol, tilisolol, and
  timolol, and the like; (3) calcium channel blockers such as amlodipine, aranidipine, azelnidipine,
  barnidipine, benidipine, bepridil, cinaldipine, clevidipine, diltiazem, efonidipine, felodipine,
  gallopamil, isradipine, lacidipine, lemildipine, lercanidipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, nilvadipine,
  nimodepine, nisoldipine, nitrendipine, manidipine, pranidipine, and verapamil, and the like; (4)
                                                     50

angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril; captopril; ceranapril;
cilazapril; delapril; enalapril; enalopril; fosinopril; imidapril; lisinopril; losinopril; moexipril;
quinapril; quinaprilat; ramipril; perindopril; perindropril; quanipril; spirapril; tenocapril;
trandolapril, and zofenopril, and the like; (5) neutral endopeptidase inhibitors such as
omapatrilat, cadoxatril and ecadotril, fosidotril, sampatrilat, AVE7688, ER4030, and the like; (6)
endothelin antagonists such as tezosentan, A308165, and YM62899, and the like; (7)
vasodilators such as hydralazine, clonidine, minoxidil, and nicotinyl alcohol, and the like; (8)
angiotensin II receptor antagonists such as aprosartan, candesartan, eprosartan, irbesartan,
losartan, olmesartan, pratosartan, tasosartan, telmisartan, valsartan, and EXP-3137, F16828K,
and RNH6270, and the like; (9) a/p adrenergic blockers such as nipradilol, arotinolol and
amosulalol, and the like; (10) alpha 1 blockers, such as terazosin, urapidil, prazosin, tamsulosin,
bunazosin, trimazosin, doxazosin, naftopidil, indoramin, WHP 164, and XENOlO, and the like;
(11) alpha 2 agonists such as lofexidine, tiamenidine, moxonidine, rilmenidine and guanobenz,
and the like; (12) aldosterone inhibitors, and the like; and (13) angiopoietin-2 -binding agents
such as those disclosed in W003/030833. Specific anti-hypertensive agents that can be used in
combination with polypeptides and agonists described herein include, but are not limited to:
diuretics, such as thiazides (e.g., chlorthalidone, cyclothiazide (CAS RN 2259-96-3),
chlorothiazide (CAS RN 72956-09-3, which may be prepared as disclosed in US2809194),
dichlorophenamide, hydroflumethiazide, indapamide, polythiazide, bendroflumethazide,
methyclothazide, polythiazide, trichlormethazide, chlorthalidone, indapamide, metolazone,
quinethazone, althiazide (CAS RN 5588-16-9, which may be prepared as disclosed in British
Patent No. 902,658), benzthiazide (CAS RN 91-33-8, which may be prepared as disclosed in
US3108097), buthiazide (which may be prepared as disclosed in British Patent Nos. 861 ,367),
and hydrochlorothiazide), loop diuretics (e.g. bumetanide, ethacrynic acid, furosemide, and
torasemide), potassium sparing agents (e.g. amiloride, and triamterene (CAS Number 396-0 1
0)), and aldosterone antagonists (e.g. spironolactone (CAS Number 52-01-7), epirenone, and the
like); p-adrenergic   blockers such as Amiodarone (Cordarone, Pacerone), bunolol hydrochloride
(CAS RN 31969-05-8, Parke-Davis), acebutolol (+N-[3-Acetyl-4-[2-hydroxy-3-[(1
methylethyl)amino]propoxy]phenyl]-butanamide, or (+)-3'-Acetyl-4'-[2-hydroxy -3
(isopropylamino) propoxy] butyranilide), acebutolol hydrochloride (e.g. Sectral@, Wyeth
Ayerst), alprenolol hydrochloride (CAS RN 13707-88-5 see Netherlands Patent Application No.
                                                    51

  6,605,692), atenolol (e.g. Tenormin@, AstraZeneca), carteolol hydrochloride (e.g. Cartrol@
  Filmtab@, Abbott), Celiprolol hydrochloride (CAS RN 57470-78-7, also see in US4034009),
  cetamolol hydrochloride (CAS RN 77590-95-5, see also US4059622), labetalol hydrochloride
  (e.g. Normodyne@, Schering), esmolol hydrochloride (e.g. Brevibloc@, Baxter), levobetaxolol
  hydrochloride (e.g. BetaxonTM Ophthalmic Suspension, Alcon), levobunolol hydrochloride (e.g.
  Betagan@ Liquifilm@ with C CAP Compliance Cap, Allergan), nadolol (e.g. Nadolol, Mylan),
  practolol (CAS RN 6673-35-4, see also US3408387), propranolol hydrochloride (CAS RN 318
  98-9), sotalol hydrochloride (e.g. Betapace AFTM,Berlex), timolol (2-Propanol,l-[(1,1
  dimethylethyl)amino]-3-[[4-4(4-morpholinyl)-1,2,5-thiadiazol-3-yl]oxy]-,   hemihydrate, (S)-,
  CAS RN 91524-16-2), timolol maleate (S)-I -[(1,1 -dimethylethyl) amino]-3-[[4- (4
  morpholinyl)-1,2,5-thiadiazol -3- yl] oxy]-2-propanol (Z)-2-butenedioate (1 :1) salt, CAS RN
  26921-17-5), bisoprolol (2-Propanol, 1-[4-[[2-(1-methylethoxy)ethoxy]-methyl]phenoxyl]-3-[(1
  meth- ylethyl)amino]-, (), CAS RN 66722-44-9), bisoprolol fumarate (such as ()-1-[4-[[2-(1
  Methylethoxy) ethoxy]methyl]phenoxy]-3-[(1-methylethyl)amino]-2-propanol (E) -2
  butenedioate (2:1) (salt), e.g., ZebetaTM , Lederle Consumer), nebivalol (2H-1-Benzopyran-2
  methanol, aa'-[iminobis(methylene)]bis[6-fluoro-3,4-dihydro-, CAS RN 99200-09-6 see also
  U.S. Pat. No. 4,654,362), cicloprolol hydrochloride, such 2-Propanol, 1-[4-[2
  (cyclopropylmethoxy)ethoxy]phenoxy]-3-[l-methylethyl)amino]-, hydrochloride, A.A.S. RN
  63686-79-3), dexpropranolol hydrochloride (2-Propanol,l-[l-methylethy)-amino]-3-(1
  naphthalenyloxy)-hydrochloride (CAS RN 13071-11-9), diacetolol hydrochloride (Acetamide,
  N-[3-acetyl-4-[2-hydroxy-3-[(1-methyl-ethyl)amino]propoxy]     [phenyl]-, monohydrochloride
  CAS RN 69796-04-9), dilevalol hydrochloride (Benzamide, 2-hydroxy-5-[l-hydroxy-2-[1
  methyl-3 -phenylpropyl)amino] ethyl]-, monohydrochloride, CAS RN 75659-08-4), exaprolol
  hydrochloride (2-Propanol, 1 -(2-cyclohexylphenoxy)-3 - [( 1 -methylethyl)amino] -,
5 hydrochloride CAS RN 59333-90-3), flestolol sulfate (Benzoic acid, 2-fluro-,3-[[2
  [aminocarbonyl)amino] - - dimethylethyl] amino] -2-hydroxypropyl ester, (+)- sulfate (1 :1) (salt),
  CAS RN 88844-73-9; metalol hydrochloride (Methanesulfonamide, N-[4-[l-hydroxy-2
  (methylamino)propyl]phenyl]-, monohydrochloride CAS RN 7701-65-7), metoprolol 2
  Propanol, 1-[4-(2- methoxyethyl)phenoxy]-3-[l-methylethyl)amino]-; CAS RN 37350-58-6),
  metoprolol tartrate (such as 2-Propanol, 1-[4-(2-methoxyethyl)phenoxy]-3-[(1
  methylethyl)amino]-, e.g., Lopressor@, Novartis), pamatolol sulfate (Carbamic acid, [2-[4-[2
                                                    52

  hydroxy-3 -[(1- methylethyl)amino]propoxyl]phenyl] -ethyl]-, methyl ester, () sulfate (salt) (2:1),
  CAS RN 59954-01-7), penbutolol sulfate (2-Propanol, 1-(2-cyclopentylphenoxy)-3-[1,1
  dimethyle- thyl)amino] 1 , (S)-, sulfate (2:1) (salt), CAS RN 38363-32-5), practolol (Acetamide,
  N-[4-[2- hydroxy-3-[(1-methylethyl)amino]-propoxy]phenyl]-, CAS RN 6673-35-4;) tiprenolol
  hydrochloride (Propanol, 1-[(1-methylethyl)amino]-3-[2-(methylthio)-phenoxy]-, hydrochloride,
  (), CAS RN 39832-43-4), tolamolol (Benzamide, 4-[2-[[2-hydroxy-3-(2-methylphenoxy)
  propyl] amino] ethoxyl]-, CAS RN 38103-61-6), bopindolol, indenolol, pindolol, propanolol,
  tertatolol, and tilisolol, and the like; calcium channel blockers such as besylate salt of amlodipine
  (such as 3-ethyl-5-methyl-2-(2-aminoethoxymethyl)-4-(2-chlorophenyl)-1 ,4-dihydro-6-methyl
  3,5-pyridinedicarboxylate benzenesulphonate, e.g., Norvasc@, Pfizer), clentiazem maleate (1,5
  Benzothiazepin-4(5H)-one, 3-(acetyloxy)-8-chloro-5-[2-(dimethylamino)ethyl]-2,3-dihydro-2
  (4-methoxyphenyl)-(2S-cis)-, (Z)-2-butenedioate (1 :1), see also US4567195), isradipine (3,5
  Pyridinedicarboxylic acid, 4-(4-benzofurazanyl)-1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-, methyl 1
  methylethyl ester, (+)-4(4-benzofurazanyl)- 1 ,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-3 ,5
  pyridinedicarboxylate, see also US4466972); nimodipine (such as is isopropyl (2- methoxyethyl)
  1, 4- dihydro -2,6- dimethyl -4- (3-nitrophenyl) -3,5- pyridine - dicarboxylate, e.g. Nimotop@,
  Bayer), felodipine (such as ethyl methyl 4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-3,5
  pyridinedicarboxylate- , e.g. Plendil@ Extended-Release, AstraZeneca LP), nilvadipine (3,5
  Pyridinedicarboxylic acid, 2-cyano-1,4-dihydro-6-methyl-4-(3-nitrophenyl)-,3-methyl 5-(1
  methylethyl) ester, also see US3799934), nifedipine (such as 3, 5 -pyridinedicarboxylic acid,1,4
  dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-4-(2-nitrophenyl)-, dimethyl ester, e.g., Procardia XL@ Extended Release
  Tablets, Pfizer), diltiazem hydrochloride (such as 1,5-Benzothiazepin-4(5H)-one,3-(acetyloxy)
  5[2-(dimethylamino)ethyl]-2,-3-dihydro-2(4-methoxyphenyl)-, monohydrochloride, (+)-cis., e.g.,
  Tiazac@, Forest), verapamil hydrochloride (such as benzeneacetronitrile, (alpha)-[ [3 -[ [2-(3,4
5 dimethoxyphenyl) ethyl]methylamino]propyl] -3 ,4-dimethoxy-(alpha)-( 1 -methylethyl)
  hydrochloride, e.g., Isoptin@ SR, Knoll Labs), teludipine hydrochloride (3,5
  Pyridinedicarboxylic acid, 2-[(dimethylamino)methyl]4-[2-[(lE)-3-(1,1-dimethylethoxy)-3-oxo-        1
  propenyl]phenyl]-1,4-dihydro-6-methyl-, diethyl ester, monohydrochloride) CAS RN 108700
  03-4), belfosdil (Phosphonic acid, [2-(2-phenoxy ethyl)- 1,3 -propane- diyl]bis-, tetrabutyl ester
  CAS RN 103486-79-9), fostedil (Phosphonic acid, [[4-(2-benzothiazolyl)phenyl]methyl]-,
  diethyl ester CAS RN 75889-62-2), aranidipine, azelnidipine, bamidipine, benidipine, bepridil,
                                                     53

  cinaldipine, clevidipine, efonidipine, gallopamil, lacidipine, lemildipine, lercanidipine, monatepil
  maleate (1-Piperazinebutanamide, N-(6, 11 -dihydrodibenzo(b,e)thiepin- 11 -yl)4-(4
  fluorophenyl)-, (+)-, (Z)-2-butenedioate (1 :1) ()-N-(6,1 l-Dihydrodibenzo(b,e)thiep- in-i 1-yl)-4
  (p- fluorophenyl)-l-piperazinebutyramide maleate (1 :1) CAS RN 132046-06-1), nicardipine,
  nisoldipine, nitrendipine, manidipine, pranidipine, and the like; T-channel calcium antagonists
  such as mibefradil; angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril,
  benazepril hydrochloride (such as 3-[[l-(ethoxycarbonyl)-3- phenyl-( 1 S)-propyl]amino]-2,3
  ,4,5-tetrahydro-2-oxo- 1 H - 1 -(3 S)-benzazepine- 1 -acetic acid monohydrochloride, e.g.,
  Lotrel@, Novartis), captopril (such as l-[(2S)-3-mercapto-2- methylpropionyl]-L-proline, e.g.,
  Captopril, Mylan, CAS RN 62571-86-2 and others disclosed in US4046889), ceranapril (and
  others disclosed in US4452790), cetapril (alacepril, Dainippon disclosed in Eur. Therap. Res.
  39:671 (1986); 40:543 (1986)), cilazapril (Hoffman-LaRoche) disclosed in J. Cardiovasc.
  Pharmacol. 9:39 (1987), indalapril (delapril hydrochloride (2H-1,2,4- Benzothiadiazine-7
  sulfonamide, 3-bicyclo[2.2.1 ]hept-5-en-2-yl-6-chloro-3,4-dihydro-, 1,1- dioxide CAS RN 2259
  96-3); disclosed in US4385051), enalapril (and others disclosed in US4374829), enalopril,
  enaloprilat, fosinopril, ((such as L-proline, 4-cyclohexyl-l-[[[2-methyl- 1-(1-oxopropoxy)
  propoxy](4-phenylbutyl) phosphinyl]acetyl]-, sodium salt, e.g., Monopril, Bristol-Myers Squibb
  and others disclosed in US4168267), fosinopril sodium (L- Proline, 4-cyclohexyl-l-[[(R)-[(lS)-2
  methyl-l-(1-ox- opropoxy)propox), imidapril, indolapril (Schering, disclosed in J. Cardiovasc.
  Pharmacol. 5:643, 655 (1983)), lisinopril (Merck), losinopril, moexipril, moexipril hydrochloride
  (3-Isoquinolinecarboxylic acid, 2-[(2S)-2-[[(lS)-   1 -(ethoxycarbonyl)-3 -phenylpropyl] amino] - 1
  oxopropyl]- 1 ,- 2,3,4-tetrahydro-6,7-dimethoxy-, monohydrochloride, (3S)- CAS RN 82586-52
  5), quinapril, quinaprilat, ramipril (Hoechsst) disclosed in EP 79022 and Curr. Ther. Res. 40:74
  (1986), perindopril erbumine (such as 2S,3aS,7aS- 1 -[(S)-N-[(S)-    1
5 CarboxybutyljalanyljhexahydroA-indolinecarboxylic acid, 1 -ethyl ester, compound with tert
  butylamine (1 :1), e.g., Aceon@, Solvay), perindopril (Servier, disclosed in Eur. J. clin.
  Pharmacol. 31 :519 (1987)), quanipril (disclosed in US4344949), spirapril (Schering, disclosed
  in Acta. Pharmacol. Toxicol. 59 (Supp. 5): 173 (1986)), tenocapril, trandolapril, zofenopril (and
  others disclosed in US4316906), rentiapril (fentiapril, disclosed in Clin. Exp. Pharmacol.
  Physiol. 10:131 (1983)), pivopril, YS980, teprotide (Bradykinin potentiator BPP9a CAS RN
  35115-60-7), BRL 36,378 (Smith Kline Beecham, see EP80822 and EP60668), MC-838
                                                    54

  (Chugai, see CA. 102:72588v and Jap. J. Pharmacol. 40:373 (1986), CGS 14824 (Ciba-Geigy, 3
  ([l-ethoxycarbonyl-3-phenyl-(lS)-propyl]amino)-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-2-ox-        o-l-(3S)-benzazepine-l
  acetic acid HCl, see U.K. Patent No. 2103614), CGS 16,617 (Ciba- Geigy, 3(S)-[[(lS)-5-amino-l
  carboxypentyl] amino] -2,3,4,- 5-tetrahydro-2-oxo-lH-1- benzazepine-1-ethanoic acid, see
  US4473575), Ru 44570 (Hoechst, see Arzneimittelforschung 34:1254 (1985)), R 31-2201
  (Hoffman-LaRoche see FEBS Lett. 165:201 (1984)), C1925 (Pharmacologist 26:243, 266
  (1984)), WY-44221 (Wyeth, see J. Med. Chem. 26:394 (1983)), and those disclosed in
  US2003006922 (paragraph 28), US4337201, US4432971 (phosphonamidates); neutral
  endopeptidase inhibitors such as omapatrilat (Vanlev@), CGS 30440, cadoxatril and ecadotril,
  fasidotril (also known as aladotril or alatriopril), sampatrilat, mixanpril, and gemopatrilat,
  AVE7688, ER4030, and those disclosed in US5362727, US5366973, US5225401, US47228 10,
  US5223516, US4749688, US5552397, US5504080, US5612359, US5525723, EP0599444,
  EP0481522, EP0599444, EP0595610, EP0534363, EP534396, EP534492, EP0629627;
  endothelin antagonists such as tezosentan, A308165, and YM62899, and the like; vasodilators
  such as hydralazine (apresoline), clonidine (clonidine hydrochloride (1H-Imidazol- 2-amine, N
  (2,6-dichlorophenyl)4,5-dihydro-, monohydrochloride CAS RN 4205-91-8), catapres, minoxidil
  (loniten), nicotinyl alcohol (roniacol), diltiazem hydrochloride (such as 1,5- Benzothiazepin
  4(5H)-one,3-(acetyloxy)-5[2-(dimethylamino)ethyl]-2,-3-dihydro-2(4- methoxyphenyl)-,
  monohydrochloride, (+)-cis, e.g., Tiazac@, Forest), isosorbide dinitrate (such as 1,4:3,6
  dianhydro-D-glucitol 2,5-dinitrate e.g., Isordil@ Titradose@, Wyeth- Ayerst), sosorbide
  mononitrate (such as 1,4:3,6-dianhydro-D-glucito- 1,5-nitrate, an organic nitrate, e.g., Ismo@,
  Wyeth-Ayerst), nitroglycerin (such as 2,3 propanetriol trinitrate, e.g., Nitrostat@ Parke- Davis),
  verapamil hydrochloride (such as benzeneacetonitrile, (+)-(alpha)[3-[[2-(3,4 dimethoxypheny
  1)ethyl]methylamino]propyl] -3 ,4-dimethoxy-(alpha)- ( 1 -methylethyl) hydrochloride, e.g.,
5 Covera HS@ Extended-Release, Searle), chromonar (which may be prepared as disclosed in
  US3282938), clonitate (Annalen 1870 155), droprenilamine (which may be prepared as disclosed
  in DE2521113), lidoflazine (which may be prepared as disclosed in US3267104); prenylamine
  (which may be prepared as disclosed in US3152173), propatyl nitrate (which may be prepared as
  disclosed in French Patent No. 1,103,113), mioflazine hydrochloride (1 -Piperazineacetamide, 3
  (aminocarbonyl) 4-[4,4-bis(4-fluorophenyl)butyl]-N-(2,6- dichlorophenyl)-, dihydrochloride CAS
  RN 83898-67-3), mixidine (Benzeneethanamine, 3,4- dimethoxy-N-(1-methyl-2
                                                      55

  pyrrolidinylidene)- Pyrrolidine, 2-[(3,4-dimethoxyphenethyl)imino]- 1 -methyl- 1-Methyl-2- [(3,
  4-dimethoxyphenethyl)imino]pyrrolidine CAS RN 27737-38-8), molsidomine (1,2,3
  Oxadiazolium, 5-[(ethoxycarbonyl)amino]-3-(4-morpholinyl)-, inner salt CAS RN 25717-80-0),
  isosorbide mononitrate (D-Glucitol, 1,4:3,6-dianhydro-, 5-nitrate CAS RN 16051-77-7),
  erythrityl tetranitrate (1,2,3,4-Butanetetrol, tetranitrate, (2R,3S)-rel-CAS RN 7297-25-8),
  clonitrate(1,2-Propanediol, 3-chloro-, dinitrate (7CI, 8CI, 9CI) CAS RN 2612-33-1),
  dipyridamole Ethanol, 2,2',2",2'"-[(4,8-di-l-piperidinylpyrimido[5,4-d]pyrimidine-2,6
  diyl)dinitrilo]tetrakis- CAS RN 58-32-2), nicorandil (CAS RN 65141-46-0 3-),
  pyridinecarboxamide (N-[2-(nitrooxy)ethyl]-Nisoldipine3,5-Pyridinedicarboxylic acid, 1,4
  dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-4-(2-nitrophenyl)-, methyl 2-methylpropyl ester CAS RN 63675-72-9),
  nifedipine3,5-Pyridinedicarboxylic acid, 1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-4-(2-nitrophenyl)-, dimethyl
  ester CAS RN 21829-25-4), perhexiline maleate (Piperidine, 2-(2,2-dicyclohexylethyl)-, (2Z)-2
  butenedioate (1 :1) CAS RN 6724-53-4), oxprenolol hydrochloride (2-Propanol, 1-[(1
  methylethyl)amino]-3-[2-(2-propenyloxy)phenoxy]-, hydrochloride CAS RN 6452-73-9),
  pentrinitrol (1,3-Propanediol, 2,2-bis[(nitrooxy)methyl]-, mononitrate (ester) CAS RN 1607-17
  6), verapamil (Benzeneacetonitrile, a-[3-[[2-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)ethyl]- methylamino]propyl]
  3, 4-dimethoxy-a-(1 -methylethyl)- CAS RN 52-53-9) and the like; angiotensin II receptor
  antagonists such as, aprosartan, zolasartan, olmesartan, pratosartan, F16828K, RNH6270,
  candesartan (1 H-Benzimidazole-7-carboxylic acid, 2-ethoxy-l-[[2'-(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)[l,l'
  biphenyl]4-yl]methyl]- CAS RN 139481-59-7), candesartan cilexetil ((+/-)-I
  (cyclohexylcarbonyloxy)ethyl-2-ethoxy-l-[[2'-(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]-lH-benzimidazole
  carboxylate, CAS RN 145040-37-5, US5703 110 and US5 196444), eprosartan (3-[1-4
  carboxyphenylmethyl)-2-n-butyl-imidazol-5-yl]-(2-thienylmethyl) propenoic acid, US5185351
  and US5650650), irbesartan (2-n-butyl-3- [[2'-(lh-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl] 1 ,3
5 diazazspiro[4,4]non-l-en-4-one, US5270317 and US5352788), losartan (2-N-butyl-4-chloro-5
  hydroxymethyl-l-[(2'-(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl)-methyl]imidazole,      potassium salt,
  US5138069, US5153197 and US5128355), tasosartan (5,8-dihydro-2,4-dimethyl-8-[(2'-(lH
  tetrazol-5-yl)[l,r-biphenyl]4-yl)methyl]-pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-7(6H)-one,     US5149699),
  telmisartan (4'-[(1 ,4-dimethyl-2'-propyl-(2,6'-bi-lH-benzimidazol)-r-yl)]-[ 1 , 1 '-biphenyl]-2
  carboxylic acid, CAS RN 144701-48-4, US5591762), milfasartan, abitesartan, valsartan
  (Diovan@ (Novartis), (S)-N-valeryl-N-[[2'-(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl)methyl]valine,
                                                      56

  US5399578), EXP-3137 (2-N-butyl-4-chloro-l-[(2'-(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl)
  methyl]imidazole-5-carboxylic acid, US5138069, US5153197 and US5128355), 3-(2'-(tetrazol
  5-yl)-1,r-biphen-4-yl)methyl-5,7-dimethyl-2-ethyl-3H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyridine,        4'[2-ethyl-4
  methyl-6-(5,6,7,8-tetrahydroimidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-2-yl]-benzimidazol-1-yl]-methyl]-1,r
  biphenyl]-2- carboxylic acid, 2-butyl-6-(1-methoxy-l-methylethyl)-2-[2'-)IH-tetrazol-5
  yl)biphenyl-4-ylmethyl] guinazolin-4(3H)-one, 3 - [2' -carboxybiphenyl-4-yl)methyl] -2
  cyclopropyl-7-methyl- 3H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyridine, 2-butyl-4-chloro-l-[(2'-tetrazol-5
  yl)biphenyl-4-yl)methyl]imidazole-carboxylic acid, 2-butyl-4-chloro-l-[[2'-(lH-tetrazol-5- yl) [ 1
  ,1 '-biphenyl] -4-yl]methyl]- 1 H-imidazole-5 -carboxylic acid- 1 -(ethoxycarbonyl-oxy)ethyl
  ester potassium salt, dipotassium 2-butyl-4-(methylthio)-1-[ [2-[ [ [(propylamino)carbonyl] amino]
  sulfonyl](1,1'-biphenyl)-4-yl]methyl]-1 H-imidazole-5 -carboxylate, methyl-2-[[4-butyl-2
  methyl-6-oxo-5-[[2'-(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)-[1,1 '-biphenyl]-4-yl]methyl]-1-(6H)- pyrimidinyl]methyl]
  3-thiophencarboxylate, 5-[(3,5-dibutyl-lH-l,2,4-triazol-1-yl)methyl]-2-[2- ( 1 H-tetrazol-5
  ylphenyl)]pyridine, 6-butyl-2-(2-phenylethyl)-5 [[2'-(I H-tetrazol-5 -yl)[ 1,1 '- biphenyl]-4
  methyl]pyrimidin-4-(3H)-one D,L lysine salt, 5-methyl-7-n-propyl-8-[[2'-(lH- tetrazol-5
  yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl]-[1 ,2,4]-triazolo[1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-2(3H)-one, 2,7-diethyl-5- [[2'-(5
  tetrazoly)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl]-5H-pyrazolo[1,5-b][l,2,4]triazole potassium salt, 2-[2- butyl-4,5
  dihydro-4-oxo-3-[2'-(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)-4-biphenylmethyl]-3H-imidazol[4,5-        c]pyridine-5
  ylmethyl]benzoic acid, ethyl ester, potassium salt, 3-methoxy-2,6-dimethyl-4- [[2'(lH-tetrazol-5
  yl)-1,1 '-biphenyl-4-yl]methoxy]pyridine, 2-ethoxy-l-[[2'-(5-oxo-2,5-dihydro- 1 ,2,4-oxadiazol-3
  yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl] - 1 H-benzimidazole-7-carboxylic acid, 1 - [N-(2 ' -( 1 H- tetrazol-5
  yl)biphenyl-4-yl-methyl)-N-valerolylaminomethyl)cyclopentane-         1 -carboxylic acid, 7- methyl
  2n-propyl-3-[[2' 1H-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl]-3H-imidazo[4,5-6]pyridine, 2- [5-[(2
  ethyl-5,7-dimethyl-3H-imidazo [4,5 -b]pyridine-3 -yl)methyl] -2-quinolinyl] sodium benzoate, 2
5 butyl-6-chloro-4-hydroxymethyl-5 -methyl-3 -[[2'-(I H-tetrazol-5 -yl)biphenyl-4
  yl]methyl]pyridine, 2- [ [[2-butyl- 1 - [(4-carboxyphenyl)methyl] - 1 H-imidazol-5
  yl]methyl]amino]benzoic acid tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl]pyrimidin-6-one, 4(S)- [4
  (carboxymethyl)phenoxy]-N-[2(R)-[4-(2-sulfobenzamido)imidazol-           1 -yl]octanoyl]-L-proline, 1
  - (2,6-dimethylphenyl)-4-butyl-1,3-dihydro-3-[[6-[2-(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)phenyl]-3
  pyridinyl]methyl]-2H-imidazol-2-one, 5     ,8-ethano-5 ,8-dimethyl-2-n-propyl-5    ,6,7,8-tetrahydro
  1 - [[2'(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl]-lH,4H-l,3,4a,8a-tetrazacyclopentanaphthalene-9
                                                    57

  one, 4-[l-[2'-(1,2,3,4-tetrazol-5-yl)biphen-4-yl)methylamino]-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-2
  trifylquinazoline, 2-(2-chlorobenzoyl)imino-5-ethyl-3-[2'-(lH-tetrazole-5-yl)biphenyl-4
  yl)methyl-1,3,4-thiadiazoline, 2-[5-ethyl-3-[2-(lH-tetrazole-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl-1,3,4
  thiazoline-2-ylidene]aminocarbonyl-l-cyclopentencarboxylic acid dipotassium salt, and 2-butyl
  4-[N-methyl-N-(3 -methylcrotonoyl)amino] - 1 - [ [2 '-( 1 H-tetrazol-5 -yl)biphenyl-4
  yl]methyl]- 1 H- imidzole-5 -carboxylic acid 1-ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl ester, those disclosed in
  patent publications EP475206, EP497150, EP539086, EP539713, EP535463, EP535465,
  EP542059, EP497121, EP535420, EP407342, EP415886, EP424317, EP435827, EP433983,
  EP475898, EP490820, EP528762, EP324377, EP323841, EP420237, EP500297, EP426021,
  EP480204, EP429257, EP430709, EP434249, EP446062, EP505954, EP524217, EP514197,
  EP514198, EP514193, EP514192, EP450566, EP468372, EP485929, EP503162, EP533058,
  EP467207 EP399731, EP399732, EP412848, EP453210, EP456442, EP470794, EP470795,
  EP495626, EP495627, EP499414, EP499416, EP499415, EP511791, EP516392, EP520723,
  EP520724, EP539066, EP438869, EP505893, EP530702, EP400835, EP400974, EP401030,
  EP407102, EP411766, EP409332, EP412594, EP419048, EP480659, EP481614, EP490587,
  EP467715, EP479479, EP502725, EP503838, EP505098, EP505 111 EP513,979 EP507594,
  EP510812, EP511767, EP512675, EP512676, EP512870, EP517357, EP537937, EP534706,
  EP527534, EP540356, EP461040, EP540039, EP465368, EP498723, EP498722, EP498721,
  EP515265, EP503785, EP501892, EP519831, EP532410, EP498361, EP432737, EP504888,
  EP508393, EP508445, EP403159, EP403158, EP425211, EP427463, EP437103, EP481448,
  EP488532, EP501269, EP500409, EP540400, EP005528, EP028834, EP028833, EP411507,
  EP425921, EP430300, EP434038, EP442473, EP443568, EP445811, EP459136, EP483683,
  EP518033, EP520423, EP531876, EP531874, EP392317, EP468470, EP470543, EP502314,
  EP529253, EP543263, EP540209, EP449699, EP465323, EP521768, EP415594, W092/14468,
5 W093/08171, W093/08169, W091/00277, W091/00281, W091/14367, W092/00067,
  W092/00977, W092/20342, W093/04045, W093/04046, W091/15206, W092/14714,
  W092/09600, W092/16552, W093/05025, W093/03018, W091/07404, W092/02508,
  W092/13853, W091/19697, W091/11909, W091/12001, W091/11999, W091/15209,
  W091/15479, W092/20687, W092/20662, W092/20661, W093/01177, W091/14679,
> W091/13063, W092/13564, W091/17148, W091/18888, W091/19715, W092/02257,
  W092/04335, W092/05161, W092/07852, W092/15577, W093/03033, W091/16313,
                                                    58

  W092/00068, W092/025 10, W092/09278, W09210179, W092/10180, W092/10186,
  W092/10181, W092/10097, W092/10183, W092/10182, W092/10187, W092/10184,
  W092/10188, W092/10180, W092/10185, W092/20651, W093/03722, W093/06828,
  W093/03040, W092/19211, W092/22533, W092/0608 1, W092/05784, W093/0034 1,
  W092/04343, W092/04059, US5104877, US5187168, US5149699, US5185340, US4880804,
  US5138069, US4916129, US5153197, US5173494, US5137906, US5155126, US5140037,
  US5137902, US5157026, US5053329, US5132216, US5057522, US5066586, US5089626,
  US5049565, US5087702, US5124335, US5102880, US5128327, US5151435, US5202322,
  US5187159, US5198438, US5182288, US5036048, US5140036, US5087634, US5196537,
  US5153347, US5191086, US5190942, US5177097, US5212177, US5208234, US5208235,
  US5212195, US5130439, US5045540, US5041152, and US5210204, and pharmaceutically
  acceptable salts and esters thereof; a/P adrenergic blockers such as nipradilol, arotinolol,
  amosulalol, bretylium tosylate (CAS RN: 61-75-6), dihydroergtamine mesylate (such as
  ergotaman-3', 6',18-trione,9,-10-dihydro-12'-hydroxy-2'-methyl-5'-(phenylmethyl)-,(5'(a))-,
  monomethanesulfonate, e.g., DHE 45@ Injection, Novartis), carvedilol (such as (+)-1-(Carbazol
  4-yloxy)-3-[[2-(o-methoxyphenoxy)ethyl] amino] -2-propanol, e.g., Coreg@, SmithKline
  Beecham), labetalol (such as 5-[l-hydroxy-2-[(1-methyl-3-phenylpropyl) amino]
  ethyljsalicylamide monohydrochloride, e.g., Normodyne@, Schering), bretylium tosylate
  (Benzenemethanaminium, 2-bromo-N-ethyl-N,N-dimethyl-, salt with 4-methylbenzenesulfonic
  acid (1 :1) CAS RN 61-75-6), phentolamine mesylate (Phenol, 3-[[(4,5-dihydro-lH-imidazol-2
  yl)methyl](4-methylphenyl)amino]-, monomethanesulfonate (salt) CAS RN 65-28-1),
  solypertine tartrate (5H-l,3-Dioxolo[4,5-flindole, 7-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-l
  piperazinyl]ethyl]-, (2R,3R)-2,3-dihydroxybutanedioate (1 :1) CAS RN 5591-43-5), zolertine
  hydrochloride (Piperazine, 1-phenyl4-[2-(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)ethyl]-, monohydrochloride (8Cl, 9Cl)
5 CAS RN 7241-94-3) and the like; a adrenergic receptor blockers, such as alfuzosin (CAS RN:
  81403-68-1), terazosin, urapidil, prazosin (Minipress@), tamsulosin, bunazosin, trimazosin,
  doxazosin, naftopidil, indoramin, WHP 164, XENOlO, fenspiride hydrochloride (which may be
  prepared as disclosed in US3399192), proroxan (CAS RN 33743-96-3), and labetalol
  hydrochloride and combinations thereof; a 2 agonists such as methyldopa, methyldopa HCL,
  lofexidine, tiamenidine, moxonidine, rilmenidine, guanobenz, and the like; aldosterone
  inhibitors, and the like; renin inhibitors including Aliskiren (SPPlOO; Novartis/Speedel);
                                                     59

angiopoietin-2-binding agents such as those disclosed in W003/030833; anti-angina agents such
as ranolazine (hydrochloride 1-Piperazineacetamide, N-(2,6- dimethylphenyl)-4-[2-hydroxy-3
(2-methoxyphenoxy)propyl]-, dihydrochloride CAS RN 95635- 56-6), betaxolol hydrochloride
(2-Propanol, 1-[4-[2 (cyclopropylmethoxy)ethyl]phenoxy]-3-[(1- methylethyl)amino]-,
hydrochloride CAS RN 63659-19-8), butoprozine hydrochloride (Methanone, [4
[3(dibutylamino)propoxy]phenyl](2-ethyl-3-indolizinyl)-, monohydrochloride CAS RN 62134
34-3), cinepazet maleatel-Piperazineacetic acid, 4-[l-oxo-3-(3,4,5- trimethoxyphenyl)-2
propenyl]-, ethyl ester, (2Z)-2-butenedioate (1 :1) CAS RN 5 0679-07-7), tosifen
(Benzenesulfonamide, 4-methyl-N-[ [ [(lS)-l-methyl-2-phenylethyl] amino] carbonyl] - CAS RN
32295-184), verapamilhydrochloride (Benzeneacetonitrile, a-[3-[[2-(3,4
dimethoxyphenyl)ethyl]methylamino]propyl]-3 ,4-dimethoxy-a-( 1 -methylethyl)-,
monohydrochloride CAS RN 152-114), molsidomine (1,2,3-Oxadiazolium, 5
[(ethoxycarbonyl)amino]-3-(4-morpholinyl)-, inner salt CAS RN 25717-80-0), and ranolazine
hydrochloride (1 -Piperazineacetamide, N-(2,6-dimethylphenyl) 4-[2-hydroxy-3-(2-meth
oxyphenoxy)propyl]-, dihydrochloride CAS RN 95635-56-6); tosifen (Benzenesulfonamide, 4
methyl-N- [ [[(lS)-l-methyl-2-phenylethyl] amino] carbonyl] - CAS RN 32295-184); adrenergic
stimulants such as guanfacine hydrochloride (such as N-amidino-2-(2,6-dichlorophenyl)
acetamide hydrochloride, e.g., Tenex@ Tablets available from Robins); methyldopa
hydrochlorothiazide (such as levo-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-2-methylalanine) combined with
Hydrochlorothiazide (such as 6-chloro-3,4-dihydro-2H -1,2,4-benzothiadiazine-7- sulfonamide
1,1-dioxide, e.g., the combination as, e.g., Aldoril@ Tablets available from Merck), methyldopa
chlorothiazide (such as 6-chloro-2H-l, 2,4-benzothiadiazine-7-sulfonamide 1,1-dioxide and
methyldopa as described above, e.g., Aldoclor@, Merck), clonidine hydrochloride (such as 2
(2,6-dichlorophenylamino)-2-imidazoline hydrochloride and chlorthalidone (such as 2-chloro-5
(1-hydroxy-3-oxo-l-isoindolinyl) benzenesulfonamide), e.g., Combipres@, Boehringer
Ingelheim), clonidine hydrochloride (such as 2-(2,6-dichlorophenylamino)-2-imidazoline
hydrochloride, e.g., Catapres@, Boehringer Ingelheim), clonidine (lH-Imidazol-2-amine, N-(2,6
dichlorophenyl)4,5-dihydro-CAS RN 4205-90-7), Hyzaar (Merck; a combination of losartan and
hydrochlorothiazide), Co-Diovan (Novartis; a combination of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide,
Lotrel (Novartis; a combination of benazepril and amlodipine) and Caduet (Pfizer; a combination
of amlodipine and atorvastatin), and those agents disclosed in US20030069221.
                                                  60

Agents for the Treatment of RespiratoryDisorders
        The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy with one
or more of the following agents useful in the treatment of respiratory and other disorders
including but not limited to: ( 1 ) p-agonists including but not limited to: albuterol (PRO
VENTIL@ , S ALBUT AMOl@, VENTOLIN@), bambuterol, bitoterol, clenbuterol, fenoterol,
formoterol, isoetharine (BRONKOSOL@, BRONKOMETER@), metaproterenol (ALUPENT@,
METAPREL@), pirbuterol (MAXAIR@), reproterol, rimiterol, salmeterol, terbutaline
(BRETHAIRE@, BRETHINE@, BRICANYL@), adrenalin, isoproterenol (ISUPREL@),
epinephrine bitartrate (PRIMATENE@), ephedrine, orciprenline, fenoterol and isoetharine; (2)
steroids, including but not limited to beclomethasone, beclomethasone dipropionate,
betamethasone, budesonide, bunedoside, butixocort, dexamethasone, flunisolide, fluocortin,
fluticasone, hydrocortisone, methyl prednisone, mometasone, predonisolone, predonisone,
tipredane, tixocortal, triamcinolone, and triamcinolone acetonide; (3)   p2-agonist-corticosteroid
combinations [e.g., salmeterol-fluticasone (AD V AIR@), formoterol-budesonid (S
YMBICORT@)] ; (4) leukotriene D4 receptor antagonists/leukotriene antagonists/LTD4
antagonists (i.e., any compound that is capable of blocking, inhibiting, reducing or otherwise
interrupting the interaction between leukotrienes and the Cys LTI receptor) including but not
limited to: zafhiukast, montelukast, montelukast sodium (SINGULAIR@), pranlukast, iralukast,
pobilukast, SKB-106,203 and compounds described as having LTD4 antagonizing activity
described in U.S. Patent No. 5,565,473; (5) 5 -lipoxygenase inhibitors and/or leukotriene
biosynthesis inhibitors [e.g., zileuton and BAY1005 (CA registry 128253-31-6)]; (6) histamine
Hl receptor antagonists/antihistamines (i.e., any compound that is capable of blocking, inhibiting,
reducing or otherwise interrupting the interaction between histamine and its receptor) including
but not limited to: astemizole, acrivastine, antazoline, azatadine, azelastine, astamizole,
bromopheniramine, bromopheniramine maleate, carbinoxamine, carebastine, cetirizine,
chlorpheniramine, chloropheniramine maleate, cimetidine clemastine, cyclizine, cyproheptadine,
descarboethoxyloratadine, dexchlorpheniramine, dimethindene, diphenhydramine,
diphenylpyraline, doxylamine succinate, doxylamine, ebastine, efletirizine, epinastine,
famotidine, fexofenadine, hydroxyzine, hydroxyzine, ketotifen, levocabastine, levocetirizine,
levocetirizine, loratadine, meclizine, mepyramine, mequitazine, methdilazine, mianserin,
mizolastine, noberastine, norasternizole, noraztemizole, phenindamine, pheniramine, picumast,
                                                   61

promethazine, pynlamine, pyrilamine, ranitidine, temelastine, terfenadine, trimeprazine,
tripelenamine, and triprolidine; (7) an anticholinergic including but not limited to: atropine,
benztropine, biperiden, flutropium, hyoscyamine (e.g. Levsin@; Levbid@; Levsin/SL@,
Anaspaz@, Levsinex timecaps@, NuLev@), ilutropium, ipratropium, ipratropium bromide,
methscopolamine, oxybutinin, rispenzepine, scopolamine, and tiotropium; (8) an anti-tussive
including but not limited to: dextromethorphan, codeine, and hydromorphone; (9) a decongestant
including but not limited to: pseudoephedrine and phenylpropanolamine; (10) an expectorant
including but not limited to: guafenesin, guaicolsulfate, terpin, ammonium chloride, glycerol
guaicolate, and iodinated glycerol; (11) a bronchodilator including but not limited to:
theophylline and aminophylline; (12) an anti-inflammatory including but not limited to:
fluribiprofen, diclophenac, indomethacin, ketoprofen, S-ketroprophen, tenoxicam; (13) a PDE
(phosphodiesterase) inhibitor including but not limited to those disclosed herein; (14) a
recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody [e.g. xolair (also called omalizumab), rhuMab, and
talizumab]; (15) a humanized lung surfactant including recombinant forms of surfactant proteins
SP-B, SP-C or SP-D [e.g. SURFAXIN@, formerly known as dsc-104 (Discovery Laboratories)],
(16) agents that inhibit epithelial sodium channels (ENaC) such as amiloride and related
compounds; (17) antimicrobial agents used to treat pulmonary infections such as acyclovir,
amikacin, amoxicillin, doxycycline, trimethoprin sulfamethoxazole, amphotericin B,
azithromycin, clarithromycin, roxithromycin, clarithromycin, cephalosporins( ceffoxitin,
cefmetazole etc), ciprofloxacin, ethambutol, gentimycin, ganciclovir, imipenem, isoniazid,
itraconazole, penicillin, ribavirin, rifampin, rifabutin,amantadine, rimantidine, streptomycin,
tobramycin, and vancomycin; (18) agents that activate chloride secretion through Ca++
dependent chloride channels (such as purinergic receptor (P2Y(2) agonists); (19) agents that
decrease sputum viscosity, such as human recombinant DNase 1, (Pulmozyme@); (20)
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (acemetacin, acetaminophen, acetyl salicylic acid,
alclofenac, alminoprofen, apazone, aspirin, benoxaprofen, bezpiperylon, bucloxic acid,
carprofen, clidanac, diclofenac, diclofenac, diflunisal, diflusinal, etodolac, fenbufen, fenbufen,
fenclofenac, fenclozic acid, fenoprofen, fentiazac, feprazone, flufenamic acid, flufenisal,
flufenisal, fluprofen, flurbiprofen, flurbiprofen, furofenac, ibufenac, ibuprofen, indomethacin,
indomethacin, indoprofen, isoxepac, isoxicam, ketoprofen, ketoprofen, ketorolac, meclofenamic
acid, meclofenamic acid, mefenamic acid, mefenamic acid, miroprofen, mofebutazone,
                                                   62

nabumetone oxaprozin, naproxen, naproxen, niflumic acid , oxaprozin, oxpinac,
oxyphenbutazone, phenacetin, phenylbutazone, phenylbutazone, piroxicam, piroxicam,
pirprofen, pranoprofen, sudoxicam, tenoxican, sulfasalazine, sulindac, sulindac, suprofen,
tiaprofenic acid, tiopinac, tioxaprofen, tolfenamic acid, tolmetin, tolmetin, zidometacin,
zomepirac, and zomepirac); and (21) aerosolized antioxidant therapeutics such as S
Nitrosoglutathione.
Anti-obesity agents
        The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy with an
anti-obesity agent. Suitable such agents include, but are not limited to: 1 1p HSD-I (11-beta
hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase type 1) inhibitors, such as BVT 3498, BVT 2733, 3-(1
adamantyl)-4-ethyl-5-(ethylthio)- 4H-l,2,4-triazole, 3-(l-adamantyl)-5-(3,4,5- trimethoxyphenyl)
4-methyl-4H-l,2,4-triazole, 3- adamantanyl-4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,3a- decahydro-1,2,4-triazolo[4,3
a][11]annulene, and those compounds disclosed in WOO1/90091, WOO 1/90090, WOO 1/90092
and WO02/072084; 5HT antagonists such as those in WO03/037871, WO03/037887, and the
like; 5HTIa modulators such as carbidopa, benserazide and those disclosed in US6207699,
WO03/031439, and the like; 5HT2c (serotonin receptor 2c) agonists, such as BVT933,
DPCA37215, IK264, PNU 22394, WAY161503, R-1065, SB 243213 (Glaxo Smith Kline) and
YM 348 and those disclosed in US3914250, WOOO/77010, WO02/36596, WO02/48124,
WO02/10169, WOO1/66548, WO02/44152, WO02/51844, WO02/40456, and WO02/40457;
5HT6 receptor modulators, such as those in WO03/030901, WO03/035061, WO03/039547, and
the like; acyl-estrogens, such as oleoyl-estrone, disclosed in del Mar-Grasa, M. et al, Obesity
Research, 9:202-9 (2001) and Japanese Patent Application No. JP 2000256190; anorectic
bicyclic compounds such as 1426 (Aventis) and 1954 (Aventis), and the compounds disclosed in
WOOO/18749, WOO1/32638, WOO1/62746, WOO1/62747, and WO03/015769; CB 1
(cannabinoid-1 receptor) antagonist/inverse agonists such as rimonabant (Acomplia; Sanofi), SR
147778 (Sanofi), SR-141716 (Sanofi), BAY 65-2520 (Bayer), and SLV 319 (Solvay), and those
disclosed in patent publications US4973587, US5013837, US5081122, US5112820, US5292736,
US5532237, US5624941, US6028084, US6509367, US6509367, W096/33159, W097/29079,
W098/31227, W098/33765, W098/37061, W098/41519, W098/43635, W098/43636,
W099/02499, WOOO/10967, WOOO/10968, WOO1/09120, WOO1/58869, WOO1/64632,
WOO1/64633, WOO1/64634, WOO1/70700, WOO1/96330, WO02/076949, WO03/006007,
                                                  63

W003/007887, W003/020217, W003/026647, W003/026648, W003/027069, W003/027076,
W003/027114, W003/037332, W003/040107, W003/086940, W003/084943 and EP658546;
CCK-A (cholecystokinin-A) agonists, such as AR-R 15849, GI 181771 (GSK), JMV-180, A
71378, A-71623 and SR146131 (Sanofi), and those described in US5739106; CNTF (Ciliary
neurotrophic factors), such as GI- 181771 (Glaxo-SmithKline), SRI 46131 (Sanofi Synthelabo),
butabindide, PD 170,292, and PD 149164 (Pfizer); CNTF derivatives, such as Axokine@
(Regeneron), and those disclosed in W094/09134, W098/22128, and W099/43813; dipeptidyl
peptidase IV (DP-IV) inhibitors, such as isoleucine thiazolidide, valine pyrrolidide, NVP
DPP728, LAF237, P93/01, P 3298, TSL 225 (tryptophyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-3
carboxylic acid; disclosed by Yamada et al, Bioorg. & Med. Chem. Lett. 8 (1998) 1537-1540),
TMC-2A/2B/2C, CD26 inhibtors, FE 999011, P9310/K364, VIP 0177, SDZ 274-444, 2
cyanopyrrolidides and 4-cyanopyrrolidides as disclosed by Ashworth et al, Bioorg. & Med.
Chem. Lett., Vol. 6, No. 22, pp 1163-1166 and 2745-2748 (1996) and the compounds disclosed
patent publications. W099/38501, W099/46272, W099/67279 (Probiodrug), W099/67278
(Probiodrug), W099/61431 (Probiodrug), W002/083128, W002/062764, W003/000180,
W003/000181, W003/000250, W003/002530, W003/00253 1, W003/002553, W003/0025 93,
W003/004498, W003/004496,WO03/017936, W003/024942, W003/024965, W003/033524,
W003/037327 and EP1258476; growth hormone secretagogue receptor agonists/antagonists,
such as NN703, hexarelin, MK- 0677 (Merck), SM-130686, CP-424391 (Pfizer), LY 444,711
(Eli Lilly), L-692,429 and L- 163,255, and such as those disclosed in USSN 09/662448, US
provisional application 60/203335, US6358951, US2002049196, US2002/022637, WOo1/56592
and W002/32888; H3 (histamine H3) antagonist/inverse agonists, such as thioperamide, 3-(lH
imidazol-4- yl)propyl N-(4-pentenyl)carbamate), clobenpropit, iodophenpropit, imoproxifan,
GT2394 (Gliatech), and A331440, 0-[3-(lH-imidazol-4-yl)propanol]carbamates (Kiec
Kononowicz, K. et al., Pharmazie, 55:349-55 (2000)), piperidine-containing histamine H3
receptor antagonists (Lazewska, D. et al., Pharmazie, 56:927-32 (2001), benzophenone
derivatives and related compounds (Sasse, A. et al., Arch. Pharm.(Weinheim) 334:45-52 (2001)),
substituted N- phenylcarbamates (Reidemeister, S. et al., Pharmazie, 55:83-6 (2000)), and
proxifan derivatives (Sasse, A. et al., J. Med. Chem.. 43:3335-43 (2000)) and histamine H3
receptor modulators such as those disclosed in W002/15905, W003/024928 and W003/024929;
leptin derivatives, such as those disclosed in US5552524, US5552523, US5552522, US5521283,
                                                 64

  W096/23513, W096/23514, W096/23515, W096/23516, W096/23517, W096/23518,
  W096/23519, and W096/23520; leptin, including recombinant human leptin (PEG-OB,
  Hoffman La Roche) and recombinant methionyl human leptin (Amgen); lipase inhibitors, such
  as tetrahydrolipstatin (orlistat/Xenical@), Triton WRI 339, RHC80267, lipstatin, teasaponin,
  diethylumbelliferyl phosphate, FL-386, WAY-121898, Bay-N-3176, valilactone, esteracin,
  ebelactone A, ebelactone B, and RHC 80267, and those disclosed in patent publications
  WO1/77094, US4598089, US4452813, USUS5512565, US5391571, US5602151, US4405644,
  US4189438, and US4242453; lipid metabolism modulators such as maslinic acid, erythrodiol,
  ursolic acid uvaol, betulinic acid, betulin, and the like and compounds disclosed in
  WO03/011267; Mc4r (melanocortin 4 receptor) agonists, such as CHIR86036 (Chiron), ME
  10142, ME-10145, and HS-131 (Melacure), and those disclosed in PCT publication Nos.
  W099/64002, WOOO/74679, WOO1/991752, WOo1/25192, WOO1/52880, WOO1/74844,
  WOO1/70708, WOO1/70337, WOO1/91752, WO02/059095, WO02/059107, WO02/059108,
  WO02/059117, WO02/06276, WO02/12166, WO02/11715, WO02/12178, WO02/15909,
  WO02/38544, WO02/068387, WO02/068388, WO02/067869, WO02/081430, WO03/06604,
  WO03/007949, WO03/009847, WO03/009850, WO03/013509, and WO03/031410; Mc5r
  (melanocortin 5 receptor) modulators, such as those disclosed in WO97/19952, WOO0/15826,
  WOOO/15790, US20030092041; melanin-concentrating hormone 1 receptor (MCHR)
  antagonists, such as T-226296 (Takeda), SB 568849, SNP-7941 (Synaptic), and those disclosed
  in patent publications WOO1/21169, WOO1/82925, WOO1/87834, WO02/051809, WO02/06245,
  WO02/076929, WO02/076947, WO02/04433, WO02/51809, WO02/083134, WO02/094799,
  WO03/004027, WO03/13574, WO03/15769, WO03/028641, WO03/035624, WO03/033476,
  WO03/033480, JP13226269, and JP1437059; mGluR5 modulators such as those disclosed in
  WO03/029210, WO03/047581, WO03/048137, WO03/051315, WO03/051833, WO03/053922,
5 WO03/059904, and the like; serotoninergic agents, such as fenfluramine (such as Pondimin@
  (Benzeneethanamine, N-ethyl- alpha-methyl-3-(trifluoromethyl)-, hydrochloride), Robbins),
  dexfenfluramine (such as Redux@ (Benzeneethanamine, N-ethyl-alpha-methyl-3
  (trifluoromethyl)-, hydrochloride), Interneuron) and sibutramine ((Meridia@, Knoll/ReductilTM)
  including racemic mixtures, as optically pure isomers (+) and (-), and pharmaceutically
  acceptable salts, solvents, hydrates, clathrates and prodrugs thereof including sibutramine
  hydrochloride monohydrate salts thereof, and those compounds disclosed in US4746680,
                                                     65

US4806570, and US5436272, US20020006964, WOO1/27068, and WOO1/62341; NE
(norepinephrine) transport inhibitors, such as GW 320659, despiramine, talsupram, and
nomifensine; NPY 1 antagonists, such as BIBP3226, J-1 15814, BIBO 3304, LY-357897, CP
671906, GI- 264879A, and those disclosed in US6001836, W096/14307, WOO1/23387,
W099/51600, WOO1/85690, WOO1/85098, WOO1/85173, and WOO1/89528; NPY5
(neuropeptide Y Y5) antagonists, such as 152,804, GW-569180A, GW-594884A, GW
587081X, GW-548118X, FR235208, FR226928, FR240662, FR252384, 1229U91, GI-264879A,
CGP71683A, LY-377897, LY-366377, PD-160170, SR- 120562A, SR-120819A, JCF-104, and
H409/22 and those compounds disclosed in patent publications US6140354, US6191160,
US6218408, US6258837, US6313298, US6326375, US6329395, US6335345, US6337332,
US6329395, US6340683, EP01010691, EP-01044970, W097/19682, W097/20820,
W097/20821, W097/20822, W097/20823, W098/27063, WOOO/107409, WOOO/185714,
WOOO/185730, WOOO/64880, WOOO/68197, WOOO/69849, WO/0113917, WOO1/09120,
WOO1/14376, WOO1/85714, WOO1/85730, WOO1/07409, WOO1/02379, WOO1/23388,
WOO1/23389, WOO1/44201, WOO1/62737, WOO1/62738, WOO1/09120, WO02/20488,
WO02/22592, WO02/48152, WO02/49648, WO02/051806, WO02/094789, WO03/009845,
WO03/014083, WO03/022849, W003/028726 and Norman et al, J. Med. Chem. 43:4288-4312
(2000); opioid antagonists, such as nalmefene (REVEX @), 3-methoxynaltrexone,
methylnaltrexone, naloxone, and naltrexone (e.g. PT901; Pain Therapeutics, Inc.) and those
disclosed in US20050004155 and WOOO/21509; orexin antagonists, such as SB-334867-A and
those disclosed in patent publications WOO1/96302, WOO1/68609, WO02/44172, WO02/51232,
WO02/51838, WO02/089800, WO02/090355, WO03/023561, WO03/032991, and
WO03/037847; PDE inhibitors (e.g. compounds which slow the degradation of cyclic AMP
(cAMP) and/or cyclic GMP (cGMP) by inhibition of the phosphodiesterases, which can lead to a
relative increase in the intracellular concentration of cAMP and cGMP; possible PDE inhibitors
are primarily those substances which are to be numbered among the class consisting of the PDE3
inhibitors, the class consisting of the PDE4 inhibitors and/or the class consisting of the PDE5
inhibitors, in particular those substances which can be designated as mixed types of PDE3/4
inhibitors or as mixed types of PDE3/4/5 inhibitors) such as those disclosed in patent
publications DE1470341, DE2108438, DE2123328, DE2305339, DE2305575, DE2315801,
DE2402908, DE2413935, DE2451417, DE2459090, DE2646469, DE2727481, DE2825048,
                                                   66

DE2837161, DE2845220, DE2847621, DE2934747, DE3021792, DE3038166, DE3044568,
EP000718, EP0008408, EP0010759, EP0059948, EP0075436, EP0096517, EPOl 12987, EPOl
16948, EP0150937, EP0158380, EP0161632, EP0161918, EP0167121, EP0199127, EP0220044,
EP0247725, EP0258191, EP0272910, EP0272914, EP0294647, EP0300726, EP0335386,
EP0357788, EP0389282, EP0406958, EP0426180, EP0428302, EP0435811, EP0470805,
EP0482208, EP0490823, EP0506194, EP0511865, EP0527117, EP0626939, EP0664289,
EP0671389, EP0685474, EP0685475, EP0685479, JP92234389, JP94329652, JP95010875,
US4963561, US5141931, W09117991, W09200968, W09212961, W09307146, W09315044,
W09315045, W09318024, W09319068, W09319720, W09319747, W09319749,
W09319751, W09325517, W09402465, W09406423, W09412461, W09420455,
W09422852, W09425437, W09427947, W09500516, W09501980, W09503794,
W09504045, W09504046, W09505386, W09508534, W09509623, W09509624,
W09509627, W09509836, W09514667, W09514680, W09514681, W09517392,
W09517399, W09519362, W09522520, W09524381, W09527692, W09528926,
W09535281, W09535282, W09600218, W09601825, W09602541, W09611917,
DE3142982, DEl 116676, DE2162096, EP0293063, EP0463756, EP0482208, EP0579496,
EP0667345 US6331543, US20050004222 (including those disclosed in formulas I- XIII and
paragraphs 37-39, 85-0545 and 557-577), W09307124, EP0163965, EP0393500, EP0510562,
EP0553174, W09501338 and W09603399, as well as PDE5 inhibitors (such as RX-RA-69,
SCH-51866, KT-734, vesnarinone, zaprinast, SKF-96231, ER-21355, BF/GP-385, NM-702 and
sildenafil (ViagraTM)), PDE4 inhibitors (such as etazolate, IC163197, RP73401, imazolidinone
(RO-20-1724), MEM 1414 (R1533/R1500; Pharmacia Roche), denbufylline, rolipram,
oxagrelate, nitraquazone, Y-590, DH-6471, SKF-94120, motapizone, lixazinone, indolidan,
olprinone, atizoram, KS-506-G, dipamfylline, BMY-43351, atizoram, arofylline, filaminast,
PDB-093, UCB-29646, CDP-840, SKF-107806, piclamilast, RS-17597, RS-25344- 000, SB
207499, TIBENELAST, SB-210667, SB-211572, SB-211600, SB-212066, SB-212179, GW
3600, CDP-840, mopidamol, anagrelide, ibudilast, amrinone, pimobendan, cilostazol, quazinone
and N-(3,5-dichloropyrid-4-yl)-3-cyclopropylmethoxy4-difluoromethoxybenzamide,      PDE3
inhibitors (such as IC1153, 100, bemorandane (RWJ 22867), MCI-154, UD-CG 212, sulmazole,
ampizone, cilostamide, carbazeran, piroximone, imazodan, CI-930, siguazodan, adibendan,
saterinone, SKF-95654, SDZ-MKS-492, 349-U-85, emoradan, EMD-53998, EMD- 57033, NSP
                                                67

306, NSP-307, revizinone, NM-702, WIN-62582 and WIN-63291, enoximone and milrinone,
PDE3/4 inhibitors (such as benafentrine, trequinsin, ORG-30029, zardaverine, L- 686398, SDZ
ISQ-844, ORG-20241, EMD-54622, and tolafentrine) and other PDE inhibitors (such as
vinpocetin, papaverine, enprofylline, cilomilast, fenoximone, pentoxifylline, roflumilast,
tadalafil(Cialis@), theophylline, and vardenafil(Levitra@); Neuropeptide Y2 (NPY2) agonists
include but are not limited to: polypeptide YY and fragments and variants thereof (e.g. YY3-36
(PYY3-36 )(N. Engl. J. Med. 349:941, 2003; IKPEAPGE DASPEELNRY YASLRHYLNL
VTRQRY (SEQ ID NO: 105)) and PYY agonists such as those disclosed in WO02/47712,
WO03/026591, WO03/057235, and WO03/027637; serotonin reuptake inhibitors, such as,
paroxetine, fluoxetine (Prozac TM), fluvoxamine, sertraline, citalopram, and imipramine, and
those disclosed in US6162805, US6365633, WO03/00663, WOO1/27060, and WOO1/162341;
thyroid hormone    p agonists, such as KB-2611 (KaroBioBMS), and those disclosed in
WO02/15845, W097/21993, W099/00353, GB98/284425, U.S. Provisional Application No.
60/183,223, and Japanese Patent Application No. JP 2000256190; UCP-I (uncoupling protein-1),
2, or 3 activators, such as phytanic acid, 4-[(E)-2-(5, 6,7,8- tetrahydro-5,5,8,8-tetramethyl-2
napthalenyl)-l-propenyl]benzoic acid (TTNPB), retinoic acid, and those disclosed in
W099/00123;     p3 (beta adrenergic receptor  3) agonists, such as AJ9677/TAK677
(Dainippon/Takeda), L750355 (Merck), CP331648 (Pfizer), CL-316,243, SB 418790, BRL
37344, L-796568, BMS-196085, BRL-35135A, CGP12177A, BTA-243, GW 427353,
Trecadrine, Zeneca D7114, N-5984 (Nisshin Kyorin), LY-377604 (Lilly), SR 59119A, and those
disclosed in US5541204, US5770615, US5491134, US5776983, US488064, US5705515,
US5451677, W094/18161, W095/29159, W097/46556, W098/04526 and W098/32753,
WOO1/74782, WO02/32897, WO03/014113, WO03/016276, WO03/016307, WO03/024948,
W003/024953 and WO03/037881; noradrenergic agents including, but not limited to,
diethylpropion (such as Tenuate@ (1- propanone, 2-(diethylamino)-l -phenyl-, hydrochloride),
Merrell), dextroamphetamine (also known as dextroamphetamine sulfate, dexamphetamine,
dexedrine, Dexampex, Femdex, Oxydess II, Robese, Spancap #1), mazindol ((or 5-(p
chlorophenyl)-2,5-dihydro-3H- imidazo[2,1-a]isoindol-5-ol) such as Sanorex@, Novartis or
Mazanor@, Wyeth Ayerst), phenylpropanolamine (or Benzenemethanol, alpha-(1-aminoethyl)-,
hydrochloride), phentermine ((or Phenol, 3-[[4,5-duhydro-lH-imidazol-2-yl)ethyl](4
methylpheny-1)amino], monohydrochloride) such as Adipex-P@, Lemmon, FASTIN@, Smith
                                                  68

Kline Beecham and Ionamin@, Medeva), phendimetrazine ((or (2S,3S)-3,4-Dimethyl
2phenylmorpholine L-(+)- tartrate (1 :1)) such as Metra@ (Forest), Plegine@ (Wyeth- Ay erst),
Prelu-2@ (Boehringer Ingelheim), and Statobex@ (Lemmon), phendamine tartrate (such as
Thephorin@ (2,3,4,9- Tetrahydro-2-methyl-9-phenyl-lH-indenol[2,1-c]pyridine L-(+)-tartrate (1
:1)), Hoffmann- LaRoche), methamphetamine (such as Desoxyn@, Abbot ((S)-N, (alpha)
dimethylbenzeneethanamine hydrochloride)), and phendimetrazine tartrate (such as Bontril@
Slow-Release Capsules, Amarin (-3,4-Dimethyl-2-phenylmorpholine Tartrate); fatty acid
oxidation upregulator/inducers such as Famoxin@ (Genset); monamine oxidase inhibitors
including but not limited to befloxatone, moclobemide, brofaromine, phenoxathine, esuprone,
befol, toloxatone, pirlindol, amiflamine, sercloremine, bazinaprine, lazabemide, milacemide,
caroxazone and other certain compounds as disclosed by WOO1/12176; and other anti-obesity
agents such as 5HT-2 agonists, ACC (acetyl-CoA carboxylase) inhibitors such as those described
in WO03/072197, alpha-lipoic acid (alpha-LA), AOD9604, appetite suppressants such as those
in WO03/40107, ATL-962 (Alizyme PLC), benzocaine, benzphetamine hydrochloride (Didrex),
bladderwrack (focus vesiculosus), BRS3 (bombesin receptor subtype 3) agonists, bupropion,
caffeine, CCK agonists, chitosan, chromium, conjugated linoleic acid, corticotropin-releasing
hormone agonists, dehydroepiandrosterone, DGATl (diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1) inhibitors,
DGAT2 (diacylglycerol acyltransferase 2) inhibitors, dicarboxylate transporter inhibitors,
ephedra, exendin-4 (an inhibitor of glp-1) FAS (fatty acid synthase) inhibitors (such as Cerulenin
and C75), fat resorption inhibitors (such as those in W003/05345 1, and the like), fatty acid
transporter inhibitors, natural water soluble fibers (such as psyllium, plantago, guar, oat, pectin),
galanin antagonists, galega (Goat's Rue, French Lilac), garcinia cambogia, germander (teucrium
chamaedrys), ghrelin antibodies and ghrelin antagonists (such as those disclosed in
WOO 1/87335, and W002/08250), polypeptide hormones and variants thereof which affect the
islet cell secretion, such as the hormones of the secretin/gastric inhibitory polypeptide
(GIP)/vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)/pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide
(PACAP)/glucagon-like polypeptide II (GLP- II)/glicentin/glucagon gene family and/or those of
the adrenomedullin/amylin/calcitonin gene related polypeptide (CGRP) gene family
includingGLP-1 (glucagon- like polypeptide 1) agonists (e.g. (1) exendin-4, (2) those GLP-I
molecules described in US20050130891 including GLP- 1(7-34), GLP-l(7-35), GLP-l(7-36) or
GLP-l(7-37) in its C-terminally carboxylated or amidated form or as modified GLP-I
                                                  69

polypeptides and modifications thereof including those described in paragraphs 17-44 of
US20050130891, and derivatives derived from GLP-1-(7- 34)COOH and the corresponding acid
amide are employed which have the following general formula: R-NH
HAEGTFTSDVSYLEGQAAKEFIAWLVK-CONH                       2 wherein R=H or an organic compound
having from I to 10 carbon atoms (SEQ ID NO: 106). Preferably, R is the residue of a
carboxylic acid. Particularly preferred are the following carboxylic acid residues: formyl, acetyl,
propionyl, isopropionyl, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, sec-butyl, tert- butyl.) and glp
1 (glucagon-like polypeptide- 1), glucocorticoid antagonists, glucose transporter inhibitors,
growth hormone secretagogues (such as those disclosed and specifically described in
US5536716), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and modulators thereof (as in WO03/057237, and the like), L
camitine, Mc3r (melanocortin 3 receptor) agonists, MCH2R (melanin concentrating hormone
2R) agonist/antagonists, melanin concentrating hormone antagonists, melanocortin agonists
(such as Melanotan II or those described in WO 99/64002 and WO 00/74679), nomame herba,
phosphate transporter inhibitors, phytopharm compound 57 (CP 644,673), pyruvate, SCD-I
(stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1) inhibitors, T71 (Tularik, Inc., Boulder CO), Topiramate
(Topimax@, indicated as an anti-convulsant which has been shown to increase weight loss),
transcription factor modulators (such as those disclosed in W003/026576),     p-hydroxy    steroid
dehydrogenase- 1 inhibitors (p -HSD-I),   p-hydroxy-p-methylbutyrate,   p57 (Pfizer), Zonisamide
(Zonegran TM, indicated as an anti-epileptic which has been shown to lead to weight loss), and the
agents disclosed in US20030119428 paragraphs 20-26.
 Anti-DiabeticAgents
        The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be used in therapeutic combination with
one or more anti-diabetic agents, including but not limited to: PPARy agonists such as glitazones
(e.g., WAY-120,744, AD 5075, balaglitazone, ciglitazone, darglitazone (CP-86325, Pfizer),
englitazone (CP-68722, Pfizer), isaglitazone (MIT/J&J), MCC- 555 (Mitsibishi disclosed in
US5594016), pioglitazone (such as such as Actosm pioglitazone; Takeda), rosiglitazone
(Avandiam;Smith Kline Beecham), rosiglitazone maleate, troglitazone (Rezulin@, disclosed in
US4572912), rivoglitazone (CS-Ol 1, Sankyo), GL-262570 (Glaxo Welcome), BRL49653
(disclosed in W098/0533 1), CLX-0921, 5-BTZD, GW-0207, LG- 100641, JJT-501
(JPNT/P&U), L-895645 (Merck), R- 119702 (Sankyo/Pfizer), NN-2344 (Dr. Reddy/NN), YM
440 (Yamanouchi), LY-300512, LY-519818, R483 (Roche), T131 (Tularik), and the like and
                                                  70

compounds disclosed in US4687777, US5002953, US5741803, US5965584, US6150383,
US6150384, US6166042, US6166043, US6172090, US6211205, US6271243, US6288095,
US6303640, US6329404, US5994554, W097/10813, W097/27857, W097/28115,
W097/28137,WO97/27847, WOOO/76488, W003/000685,WO03/027112,WO03/035602,
W003/048130, W003/055867, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof; biguanides such
as metformin hydrochloride (N,N-dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydrochloride, such as
GlucophageTM, Bristol-Myers Squibb); metformin hydrochloride with glyburide, such as
GlucovanceTM, Bristol-Myers Squibb); buformin (Imidodicarbonimidic diamide, N-butyl-);
etoformine (1-Butyl-2-ethylbiguanide, Schering A. G.); other metformin salt forms (including
where the salt is chosen from the group of, acetate, benzoate, citrate, ftimarate, embonate,
chlorophenoxyacetate, glycolate, palmoate, aspartate, methanesulphonate, maleate,
parachlorophenoxyisobutyrate, formate, lactate, succinate, sulphate, tartrate,
cyclohexanecarboxylate, hexanoate, octanoate, decanoate, hexadecanoate, octodecanoate,
benzenesulphonate, trimethoxybenzoate, paratoluenesulphonate, adamantanecarboxylate,
glycoxylate, glutamate, pyrrolidonecarboxylate, naphthalenesulphonate, 1-glucosephosphate,
nitrate, sulphite, dithionate and phosphate), and phenformin; protein tyrosine phosphatase- IB
(PTP-IB) inhibitors, such as A-401,674, KR 61639, OC- 060062, OC-83839, OC-297962,
MC52445, MC52453, ISIS 113715, and those disclosed in W099/585521, W099/58518,
W099/58522, W099/61435, W003/032916, W003/032982, W003/041729, W003/055883,
W002/26707, W002/26743, JP2002114768, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters
thereof; sulfonylureas such as acetohexamide (e.g. Dymelor, Eli Lilly), carbutamide,
chlorpropamide (e.g. Diabinese@, Pfizer), gliamilide (Pfizer), gliclazide (e.g. Diamcron, Servier
Canada Inc), glimepiride (e.g. disclosed in US4379785, such as Amaryl , Aventis), glipentide,
glipizide (e.g. Glucotrol or Glucotrol XL Extended Release, Pfizer), gliquidone, glisolamide,
glyburide/glibenclamide (e.g. Micronase or Glynase Prestab, Pharmacia & Upjohn and Diabeta,
Aventis), tolazamide (e.g. Tolinase), and tolbutamide (e.g. Orinase), and pharmaceutically
acceptable salts and esters thereof; meglitinides such as repaglinide (e.g. Pranidin@, Novo
Nordisk), KAD 1229 (PF/Kissei), and nateglinide (e.g. Starlix@, Novartis), and pharmaceutically
acceptable salts and esters thereof; a glucoside hydrolase inhibitors (or glucoside inhibitors) such
as acarbose (e.g. PrecoseTM, Bayer disclosed in US4904769), miglitol (such as GLYSETTM
Pharmacia & Upjohn disclosed in US4639436), camiglibose (Methyl 6-deoxy-6-[(2R,3R,4R,5S)
                                                  71

3,4,5-trihydroxy-2- (hydroxymethyl)piperidino]-alpha-D-glucopyranoside, Marion Merrell
Dow), voglibose (Takeda), adiposine, emiglitate, pradimicin-Q, salbostatin, CKD-7 11, MDL
25,637, MDL- 73,945, and MOR 14, and the compounds disclosed in US4062950, US4174439,
US4254256, US4701559, US4639436, US5192772, US4634765, US5157116, US5504078,
US5091418, US5217877, and WO01/47528 (polyamines); a-amylase inhibitors such as
tendamistat, trestatin, and Al -3688, and the compounds disclosed in US4451455, US4623714,
and US4273765; SGLT2 inhibtors including those disclosed in US6414126 and US6515117; an
aP2 inhibitor such as disclosed in US6548529; insulin secreatagogues such as linogliride, A
4166, forskilin, dibutyrl cAMP, isobutylmethylxanthine (IBMX), and pharmaceutically
acceptable salts and esters thereof; fatty acid oxidation inhibitors, such as clomoxir, and
etomoxir, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof; A2 antagonists, such as
midaglizole, isaglidole, deriglidole, idazoxan, earoxan, and fluparoxan, and pharmaceutically
acceptable salts and esters thereof; insulin and related compounds (e.g. insulin mimetics) such as
biota, LP-100, novarapid, insulin detemir, insulin lispro, insulin glargine, insulin zinc suspension
(lente and ultralente), Lys-Pro insulin, GLP-I (1-3 6) amide, GLP-I (73-7) (insulintropin,
disclosed in US5614492), LY-315902 (Lilly), GLP-I (7-36)-NH2), AL-401 (Autoimmune),
certain compositions as disclosed in US4579730, US4849405, US4963526, US5642868,
US5763396, US5824638, US5843866, US6153632, US6191105, and WO 85/05029, and
primate, rodent, or rabbit insulin including biologically active variants thereof including allelic
variants, more preferably human insulin available in recombinant form (sources of human insulin
include pharmaceutically acceptable and sterile formulations such as those available from Eli
Lilly (Indianapolis, Ind. 46285) as HumulinT M (human insulin rDNA origin), also see the THE
PHYSICIAN'S DESK REFERENCE, 55.sup.th Ed. (2001) Medical Economics, Thomson
Healthcare (disclosing other suitable human insulins); non-thiazolidinediones such as JT-501 and
farglitazar (GW-2570/GI- 262579), and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof;
PPARa/y dual agonists such as AR-H039242 (Aztrazeneca), GW-409544 (Glaxo-Wellcome),
BVT-142, CLX-0940, GW-1536, GW-1929, GW-2433, KRP-297 (Kyorin Merck; 5-[(2,4-Dioxo
thiazolidinyl)methyl] methoxy-N-[[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] methyljbenzamide), L-796449,
LR-90, MK-0767 (Merck/Kyorin/Banyu), SB 219994, muraglitazar (BMS), tesaglitzar
(Astrazeneca), reglitazar (JTT-501) and those disclosed in W099/16758, W099/193 13,
W099/20614, W099/38850, WOOO/23415, WOOO/23417, WOOO/23445, WOOO/50414,
                                                  72

WOo1/00579, WOo1/79150, WO02/062799, WO03/004458, WO03/016265, WO03/018010,
WO03/033481, WO03/033450, WO03/033453, WO03/043985, WO 031053976, U.S.
application Ser. No. 09/664,598, filed Sep. 18, 2000, Murakami et al. Diabetes 47, 1841-1847
(1998), and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof; other insulin sensitizing drugs;
VPAC2 receptor agonists; GLK modulators, such as those disclosed in WO03/015774; retinoid
modulators such as those disclosed in W003/000249; GSK 3p/GSK 3 inhibitors such as 4-[2-(2
bromophenyl)-4-(4-fluorophenyl-lH-imidazol-5- yl]pyridine and those compounds disclosed in
WO03/024447, WO03/037869, WO03/037877, WO03/037891, WO03/068773, EP1295884,
EP1295885, and the like; glycogen phosphorylase (HGLPa) inhibitors such as CP-368,296, CP
316,819, BAYR3401, and compounds disclosed in WOO1/94300, WO02/20530, WO03/037864,
and pharmaceutically acceptable salts or esters thereof; ATP consumption promotors such as
those disclosed in WO03/007990; TRB3 inhibitors; vanilloid receptor ligands such as those
disclosed in WO03/049702; hypoglycemic agents such as those disclosed in W003/015781 and
WO03/040114; glycogen synthase kinase 3 inhibitors such as those disclosed in W003/035663
agents such as those disclosed in W099/51225, US20030134890, WOO1/24786, and
WO03/059870; insulin-responsive DNA binding protein-i (IRDBP-I) as disclosed in
WO03/057827, and the like; adenosine A2 antagonists such as those disclosed in WO03/035639,
W003/035640, and the like; PPAR6 agonists such as GW 501516, GW 590735, and compounds
disclosed in JP10237049 and W002/14291; dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DP-IV) inhibitors, such as
isoleucine thiazolidide, NVP-DPP728A (1- [[[2-[(5-cyanopyridin-2
yl)amino] ethyl] amino]acetyl] -2-cyano-(S)-pyrrolidine, disclosed by Hughes et al, Biochemistry,
38(36), 11597-11603, 1999), P32/98, NVP-LAF-237, P3298, TSL225 (tryptophyl-1,2,3,4
tetrahydro-isoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid, disclosed by Yamada et al, Bioorg. & Med. Chem.
Lett. 8 (1998) 1537-1540), valine pyrrolidide, TMC-2A/2B/2C, CD- 26 inhibitors, FE99901 1,
P93 10/K364, VIP 0177, DPP4, SDZ 274-444, 2-cyanopyrrolidides and 4-cyanopyrrolidides as
disclosed by Ashworth et al, Bioorg. & Med. Chem. Lett., Vol. 6, No. 22, pp 1163-1166 and
2745-2748 (1996) ,and the compounds disclosed in US6395767, US6573287, US6395767
(compounds disclosed include BMS-477118, BMS-471211 and BMS 538,305), W099/38501,
W099/46272, W099/67279, W099/67278, W099/6143 1WO03/004498, WO03/004496,
EP1258476, WO02/083128, WO02/062764, WO03/000250, WO03/002530, WO03/002531,
WO03/002553, WO03/002593, WO03/000180, and WO03/000181; GLP-I agonists such as
                                                 73

exendin-3 and exendin-4 (including the 39 aa polypeptide synthetic exendin-4 called
Exenatide@), and compounds disclosed in US2003087821 and NZ 504256, and
pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof; peptides including amlintide and Symlin@
(pramlintide acetate); and glycokinase activators such as those disclosed in US2002103199
(fused heteroaromatic compounds) and W002/48106 (isoindolin- 1-one-substituted propionamide
compounds).
        Phosphodiesteraseinhibitors
        The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy with a
phosphodiesterase inhibitor. PDE inhibitors are those compounds which slow the degradation of
cyclic AMP (cAMP) and/or cyclic GMP (cGMP) by inhibition of the phosphodiesterases, which
can lead to a relative increase in the intracellular concentration of c AMP and/or cGMP.
Possible PDE inhibitors are primarily those substances which are to be numbered among the
class consisting of the PDE3 inhibitors, the class consisting of the PDE4 inhibitors and/or the
class consisting of the PDE5 inhibitors, in particular those substances which can be designated as
mixed types of PDE3/4 inhibitors or as mixed types of PDE3/4/5 inhibitors. By way of example,
those PDE inhibitors may be mentioned such as are described and/or claimed in the following
patent applications and patents: DE1470341, DE2108438, DE2123328, DE2305339,
DE2305575, DE2315801, DE2402908, DE2413935, DE2451417, DE2459090, DE2646469,
DE2727481, DE2825048, DE2837161, DE2845220, DE2847621, DE2934747, DE3021792,
DE3038166, DE3044568, EP000718, EP0008408, EP0010759, EP0059948, EP0075436,
EP0096517, EPOl 12987, EPOl 16948, EP0150937, EP0158380, EP0161632, EP0161918,
EP0167121, EP0199127, EP0220044, EP0247725, EP0258191, EP0272910, EP0272914,
EP0294647, EP0300726, EP0335386, EP0357788, EP0389282, EP0406958, EP0426180,
EP0428302, EP0435811, EP0470805, EP0482208, EP0490823, EP0506194, EP0511865,
EP0527117, EP0626939, EP0664289, EP0671389, EP0685474, EP0685475, EP0685479,
JP92234389, JP94329652, JP95010875, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,963,561, 5,141,931, W09117991,
W09200968, W09212961, W09307146, W09315044, W09315045, W09318024,
W09319068, W09319720, W09319747, W09319749, W09319751, W09325517,
W09402465, W09406423, W09412461, W09420455, W09422852, W09425437,
W09427947, W09500516, W09501980, W09503794, W09504045, W09504046,
W09505386, W09508534, W09509623, W09509624, W09509627, W09509836,
                                                   74

  W09514667, W09514680, W09514681, W09517392, W09517399, W09519362,
  W09522520, W09524381, W09527692, W09528926, W09535281, W09535282,
  W09600218, W09601825, W09602541, W09611917, DE3142982, DEl 116676, DE2162096,
  EP0293063, EP0463756, EP0482208, EP0579496, EP0667345 US6,331,543, US20050004222
  (including those disclosed in formulas I-XIII and paragraphs 37-39, 85-0545 and 557-577) and
  W09307124, EP0163965, EP0393500, EP0510562, EP0553174, W09501338 and W09603399.
  PDE5 inhibitors which may be mentioned by way of example are RX-RA-69, SCH-51866, KT
  734, vesnarinone, zaprinast, SKF-96231, ER-21355, BF/GP-385, NM-702 and sildenafil
  (Viagra@). PDE4 inhibitors which may be mentioned by way of example are RO-20-1724,
  MEM 1414 (R1533/R1500; Pharmacia Roche), DENBUFYLLINE, ROLIPRAM,
  OXAGRELATE, NITRAQUAZONE, Y-590, DH-6471, SKF-94120, MOTAPIZONE,
  LIXAZINONE, INDOLIDAN, OLPRINONE, ATIZORAM, KS-506-G, DIPAMFYLLINE,
  BMY-43351, ATIZORAM, AROFYLLINE, FILAMINAST, PDB-093, UCB-29646, CDP-840,
  SKF- 107806, PICLAMILAST, RS- 17597, RS-25344-000, SB-207499, TIBENELAST, SB
  210667, SB-211572, SB-211600, SB-212066, SB-212179, GW-3600, CDP-840, MOPIDAMOL,
  ANAGRELIDE, IBUDILAST, AMRINONE, PIMOBENDAN, CILOSTAZOL, QUAZINONE
  and N-(3,5-dichloropyrid-4-yl)-3-cyclopropylmethoxy4-difluoromethoxybenzamide.           PDE3
  inhibitors which may be mentioned by way of example are SULMAZOLE, AMPIZONE,
  CILOSTAMIDE, CARBAZERAN, PIROXIMONE, IMAZODAN, CI-930, SIGUAZODAN,
  ADIBENDAN, SATERINONE, SKF-95654, SDZ-MKS-492, 349-U-85, EMORADAN, EMD
  53998, EMD-57033, NSP-306, NSP-307, REVIZINONE, NM-702, WIN-62582 and WIN
  63291, ENOXIMONE and MILRINONE. PDE3/4 inhibitors which may be mentioned by way of
  example are BENAFENTRINE, TREQUINSIN, ORG-30029, ZARDAVERINE, L-686398,
  SDZ-ISQ-844, ORG-20241, EMD-54622, and TOLAFENTRINE. Other PDE inhibitors include:
5 cilomilast, pentoxifylline, roflumilast, tadalafil(Cialis@), theophylline, and vardenafil(Levitra@),
  zaprinast (PDE5 specific).
  Anti- Uterine ContractionsAgents
          The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy (for
  example, in order to decrease or inhibit uterine contractions) with a tocolytic agent including but
  not limited to beta-adrenergic agents, magnesium sulfate, prostaglandin inhibitors, and calcium
  channel blockers.
                                                     75

 Anti- Neoplastic Agents
         The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy with an
antineoplastic agents including but not limited to alkylating agents, epipodophyllotoxins,
nitrosoureas, antimetabolites, vinca alkaloids, anthracycline antibiotics, nitrogen mustard agents,
and the like. Particular anti-neoplastic agents may include tamoxifen, taxol, etoposide and 5
fluorouracil.
         The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy (for
example as in a chemotherapeutic composition) with an antiviral and monoclonal antibody
therapies.
Agents to treat Congestive HeartFailure
         The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy (for
example, in prevention/treatment of congestive heart failure or another method described herein)
with the partial agonist of the nociceptin receptor ORLl described by Dooley et al. (The Journal
of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, 283 (2): 735-741, 1997). The agonist is a
hexapeptide having the amino acid sequence Ac- RYY (RK) (WI) (RK)-NH2 ("the Dooley
polypeptide"), where the brackets show allowable variation of amino acid residue. Thus Dooley
polypeptide can include but are not limited to KYYRWR (SEQ ID NO: 107), RYYRWR (SEQ
ID NO: 108), KWRYYR (SEQ ID NO: 109), RYYRWK (SEQ ID NO: 110), RYYRWK (all-D
amin acids) (SEQ ID NO: 111), RYYRIK (SEQ ID NO: 112), RYYRIR (SEQ ID NO: 113),
RYYKIK (SEQ ID NO: 114), RYYKIR (SEQ ID NO: 115), RYYKWR (SEQ ID NO: 116),
RYYKWK (SEQ ID NO: 117), and KYYRWK (SEQ ID NO: 118), wherein the amino acid
residues are in the L-form unless otherwise specified. The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein
can also be used in combination therapy with polypeptide conjugate modifications of the Dooley
polypeptide described in WOO 198324.
Fibrate
         The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy with a
fibrate. The term "fibrate" is also interchangeably used herein and in the art with the term "fibric
acid derivative," and means any of the fibric acid derivatives useful in the methods described
herein, e.g., fenofibrate. Fenofibrate is a fibrate compound, other examples of which include, for
example, bezafibrate, beclofibrate, benzafibrate, binifibrate, ciprofibrate, clinofibrate, clofibrate,
                                                    76

etofibrate, gemcabene, gemfibrozil, lifibrol, nicofibrate, pirifibrate, ronifibrate, simfibrate,
theofibrate, etc.
Lipid Altering Agents
         The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy with a
lipid altering agent. As used herein the term "lipid altering agent" or "dyslipidemia agent" refers
to compounds including, but not limited to, bile acid sequestrants such as cholestyramine (a
styrene-divinylbenzene copolymer containing quaternary ammonium cationic groups capable of
binding bile acids, such as QUESTRAN@ or QUESTRAN LIGHT@ cholestyramine which are
available from Bristol-Myers Squibb), colesevelam hydrochloride (such as WELCHOL@ Tablets
(polyallylamine hydrochloride) cross-linked with epichlorohydrin and alkylated with 1
bromodecane and (6-bromohexyl)-trimethylammonium bromide) which are available from
Sankyo), colestipol (a copolymer of diethylenetriamine and 1-chloro-2,3-epoxypropane, such as
COLESTID@ tablets which are available from Pharmacia), dialkylaminoalkyl derivatives of a
cross-linked dextran, LOCHOLEST@, DEAE-Sephadex (SECHOLEX@, POLICEXIDE@),
water soluble derivatives such as 3,3-ioene, N- (cycloalkyl)alkylamines and poliglusam,
insoluble quaternized polystyrenes, saponins and mixtures thereof and those bile acid
sequestrants disclosed in W097/11345, W098/57652, US3692895, and US5703 188. Suitable
inorganic cholesterol sequestrants include bismuth salicylate plus montmorillonite clay,
aluminum hydroxide and calcium carbonate antacids.
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors
         The Aad-GCRA peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy with a
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are dyslipidemic agents that can
be used in therapeutic combinations with compounds described herein. Suitable HMG-CoA
reductase inhibitors for use in therapeutic combination with a compounds described herein
include: atorvastatin (LIPITOR@; disclosed in US4681893, US5385929 and US5686104),
atorvastatin calcium (disclosed in US5273995), dihydrocompactin, (disclosed in US4450171),
bervastatin (disclosed in US5082859), carvastatin, cerivastatin (BAYCOL@; disclosed in
US5006530, US5502199, and US5 177080), crilvastatin, dalvastatin (disclosed in EP738510A2),
fluvastatin (LESCOL@; disclosed in US4739073 and US534772), glenvastatin, fluindostatin
(disclosed in EP363934A1), velostatin (visinolin; disclosed in US4448784 and US4450171),
lovastatin (mevinolin; MEVACOR@ (Merck and Co.) and related compounds disclosed in
                                                 77

US4231938), mevastatin (and related compound disclosed in US3983140), compactin (and
related compounds disclosed in US4804770), pravastatin ( also known as NK- 104, itavastatin,
nisvastatin, nisbastatin disclosed in US5 102888), pravastatin (PRAVACHOL@ (Bristol Myers
Squibb) and related compounds disclosed in US4346227), rivastatin (sodium 7-(4-fluorophenyl)
2,6- diisopropyl-5-methoxymethylpyridin-3-yl )-3,5-dihydroxy-6-heptanoate), rosuvastatin
(CRESTOR@; also known as ZD-4522 disclosed in US5260440), atavastatin, visastatin,
simvastatin (ZOCOR@ (Merck and Co.) and related compounds as disclosed in US4448784 and
US4450171), simvastatin, CI-981, compounds disclosed in W003/033481, US4231938,
US4444784, US4647576, US4686237, US4499289, US4346227, US5753675, US4613610,
EP0221025, and EP491226, and optical or geometric isomers thereof; and nontoxic
pharmaceutically acceptable salts, N-oxides, esters, quaternary ammonium salts, and prodrugs
thereof. In HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors where an open-acid form can exist, salt and ester
forms may preferably be formed from the open-acid, and all such forms are included within the
meaning of the term "HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor" as used herein. Pharmaceutically
acceptable salts with respect to the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor includes non-toxic salts of the
compounds which are generally prepared by reacting the free acid with a suitable organic or
inorganic base, particularly those formed from cations such as sodium, potassium, aluminum,
calcium, lithium, magnesium, zinc and tetramethylammonium, as well as those salts formed from
amines such as ammonia, ethylenediamine, N- methylglucamine, lysine, arginine, ornithine
(Om), choline, N,N'-dibenzylethylenediamine, chloroprocaine, diethanolamine, procaine, N
benzylphenethylamine, 1-p- chlorobenzyl-2 -pyrrolidine- l'-yl-methylbenzim- idazole,
diethylamine, piperazine, and tris(hydroxymethyl) aminomethane. Further examples of salt
forms of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may include, but are not limited to, acetate,
benzenesulfonate, benzoate, bicarbonate, bisulfate, bitartrate, borate, bromide, calcium edetate,
camsylate, carbonate, chloride, clavulanate, citrate, dihydrochloride, edetate, edisylate, estolate,
esylate, fumarate, gluceptate, gluconate, glutamate, glycollylarsanilate, hexylresorcinate,
hydrabamine, hydrobromide, hydrochloride, hydroxynapthoate, iodide, isothionate, lactate,
lactobionate, laurate, malate, maleate, mandelate, mesylate, methylsulfate, mucate, napsylate,
nitrate, oleate, oxalate, pamaote, palmitate, pantothenate, phosphate/diphosphate,
polygalacturonate, salicylate, stearate, subacetate, succinate, tannate, tartrate, teoclate, tosylate,
triethiodide, and valerate.
                                                  78

        Other dyslipidemic agents which can be used in therapeutic combination with a
compound described herein include: HMG-CoA synthase inhibitors such as L-659,699 ((E E)-I 1
[3'R-(hydroxy- methyl)-4'-oxo-2'R-oxetanyl]-3,5,7R-trimethyl-2,4-undecadienoic acid) and
those disclosed in US5 120729, US5064856, and US4847271; cholesterol absorption inhibitors
such as plant sterols, plant stanols and/or fatty acid estesrs of plant stanols such as sitostanol
ester used in BENECOL@ margarine, stanol esters, beta-sitosterol, and sterol glycosides such as
tiqueside. Other cholesterol absorption inhibitors include 1,4-Diphenylazetidin-2-ones; 4
biarylyl-l- phenylazetidin-2-ones; 4-(hydroxyphenyl)azetidin-2-ones; 1,4-diphenyl-3
hydroxyalkyl-2-azetidinones; 4-biphenyl- 1-phenylazetidin-2-ones; 4-biarylyl- 1
phenylazetidin-2-ones; and 4-biphenylylazetidinones.acyl coenzyme A -cholesterol acyl
transferase (ACAT) inhibitors such as avasimibe (Current Opinion in Investigational Drugs.
3(9):291-297 (2003)), eflucimibe, HL-004, lecimibe, DuP-128, KY505, SMP 797, CL-277,082
(Clin Pharmacol Ther. 48(2): 189-94 (1990)) and the like; and those disclosed in US55 10379,
W096/26948 and W096/10559; CETP inhibitors such as JTT 705 identified as in Nature 406,
(6792):203-7 (2000), torcetrapib (CP-529,414 described in US20030186952 and
WOOO/017164), CP 532,632, BAY63-2149, SC 591, SC 795, and the like including those
described in Current Opinion in Investigational Drugs. 4(3):291-297 (2003) and those disclosed
in J. Antibiot, 49(8): 815-816 (1996), and Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett, 6:1951-1954 (1996) and
patent publications US55 12548, US6147090, W099/20302, W099/14204, W099/41237,
W095/04755, W096/15141, W096/05227,WO038721, EP796846, EP818197, EP818448,
DE19704244, DE19741051,DE19741399, DE197042437, DE19709125, DE19627430,
DE19832159,DE19741400, JP 11049743, and JP 09059155; squalene synthetase inhibitors such
as squalestatin- 1, TAK-475, and those disclosed in US4871721, US4924024, US57 12396 (a
phosphono-sulfonates), Biller et al (1988) J. Med. Chem., 31:1869 (e.g. isoprenoid (phosphinyl
methyl)phosphonates), Biller et al (1996) Current Pharmaceutical Design, 2:1, P. Ortiz de
Montellano et al (1977) J. Med. Chem. 20:243 (terpenoid pyrophosphates), Corey and Volante
(1976) J. Am. Chem. Soc, 98:1291 (famesyl diphosphate analog A and presqualene
pyrophosphate (PSQ-PP) analogs), McClard et al (1987) J.A.C.S., 109:5544
(phosphinylphosphonates), Capson, T. L., PhD dissertation, June, 1987, Dept. Med. Chem. U of
Utah, Abstract, Table of Contents, pp 16, 17, 40-43, 48-5 1, Summary, (cyclopropanes), Curr.
Op. Ther. Patents (1993) 861, and patent publications EP0567026A1, EP0645378A1,
                                                   79

EP0645377A1, EP0611749A1, EP0705607A2, EP0701725A1, and W096/09827; antioxidants
such as probucol (and related compounds disclosed in US3674836), probucol derivatives such as
AGI-1067 (and other derivatives disclosed in US6121319 and US6147250), tocopherol, ascorbic
acid, p-carotene,  selenium and vitamins such as vitamin B6 or vitamin B12 and pharmaceutically
acceptable salts and esters thereof; PPARa agonists such as those disclosed in US6028109
(fluorophenyl compounds), WOOO/75103 (substituted phenylpropionic compounds),
W098/43081 and fibric acid derivatives (fibrates) such as beclofibrate, benzafibrate, bezafibrate
(C.A.S. Registry No. 41859-67-0, see US3781328), binifibrate (C.A.S. Registry No. 69047-39-8,
see BE884722), ciprofibrate (C.A.S. Registry No. 52214-84-3, see US3948973), clinofibrate
(C.A.S. Registry No. 30299-08-2, see US3716583), clofibrate (such as ethyl 2 -(p
chlorophenoxy)-2-methyl-propionate, e.g. Atromid-S@ capsules (Wyeth-Ayerst), etofibrate,
fenofibrate (such as Tricor@ micronized fenofibrate ((2-[4-(4-chlorobenzoyl)phenoxy]-2-methyl
propanoic acid, 1-methylethyl ester; Abbott Laboratories) or Lipanthyl@ micronized fenofibrate
(Labortoire Founier, France)), gemcabene, gemfibrozil (such as 5-(2,5-dimethylphenoxy)-2,2
dimethylpentanoic acid, e.g. Lopid@ tablets (Parke Davis)), lifibrol, GW 7647, BM 170744,
LY5 18674 and those fibrate and fibrate acid derivatives disclosed in W003/033456,
W003/033481, W003/043997, W003/048116, W003/053974, W003/059864, and
W003/05875; FXR receptor modulators such as GW 4064, SR 103912, and the like; LXR
receptor modulators such as GW 3965, T9013137, and XTC0179628, and those disclosed in
US20030125357, W003/045382, W003/053352, W003/059874, and the like; HM74 and
HM74A (human HM74A is Genbank Accession No. AY148884 and rat HM74A is
EMMpatAR09 8624) receptor agonists such as nicotinic acid (niacin) and derivatives thereof
(e.g. compounds comprising a pyridine-3 -carboxylate structure or a pyrazine-2-carboxylate
structure, including acid forms, salts, esters, zwitterions and tautomers, where available)
including but not limited to those disclosed in Wise et al (2003) J. Biol. Chem. 278: 9869 (e.g. 5
methylpyrazole-3- carboxylic acid and acifran (4,5-dihydro-5-methyl-4-oxo-5-phenyl-2-furan
carboxylic acid pyradine-3 -acetic acid)), as well as 5-methyl nicotinic acid, nicotinuric acid,
niceritrol, nicofuranose, acipimox (5-methylpyrazine-2 -carboxylic acid 4-oxide), Niaspan@
(niacin extended-release tablets; Kos) and those which can be easily identified by one skilled in
the art which bind to and agonize the HM74A or HM74 receptor (for example using the assays
disclosed in Wise et al (2003) J. Biol. Chem 278:9869 (nicotine binding and [35S]-GTPyS
                                                  80

binding assays), Soga et al (2003) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 303:364 (radiolabel binding
assay using the HM74 receptor which could be adapted to the HM74A receptor), Tunaru et al
(2003) Nature Medicine 9:352 (calcium mobilization assay using the HM74 receptor which
could be adapted to the HM74A receptor) and US6420183 (FLIPR assays are described
generally in and may be adapted to the HM74A or HM74 receptor); renin angiotensin system
inhibitors; bile acid reabsorption inhibitors (bile acid reuptake inhibitors), such as BARI 1453,
SC435, PHA384640, S8921, AZD7706, and the like; PPARS agonists (including partial
agonists) such as GW 501516, and GW 590735, and those disclosed in US5859051
(acetophenols), W003/024395, W097/28149, Wo01/79197, W002/14291, W002/46154,
W002/46176, W002/076957, W003/0 16291, W003/033493, W099/20275 (quinoline phenyl
compounds), W099/38845 (aryl compounds), WOOO/63161 (1,4-disubstituted phenyl
compounds), WO01/00579 (aryl compounds), WO01/12612 & WO01/12187 (benzoic acid
compounds), and W097/31907 (substituted 4-hydroxy-phenylalconic acid compound); sterol
biosynthesis inhibitors such as DMP-565; triglyceride synthesis inhibitors; microsomal
triglyceride transport (MTTP) inhibitors, such as inplitapide, LAB687, and CP346086, AEGR
733, implitapide and the like; HMG-CoA reductase gene expression inhibitors (e.g. compounds
that decrease HMG-CoA reductase expression by affecting (e.g. blocking) transcription or
translation of HMG-CoA reductase into protein or compounds that maybe biotransformed into
compounds that have the aforementioned attributes by one or more enzymes in the cholesterol
biosynthetic cascade or may lead to the accumulation of an isoprene metabolite that has the
aforementioned activities (such regulation is readily determined by those skilled in the art
according to standard assays (Methods of Enzymology, 110:9-19 1985))) such as those disclosed
in US5041432 (certain 15- substituted lanosterol derivatives) and E. I. Mercer (1993) Prog. Lip.
Res. 32:357 (oxygenated sterols that suppress the biosynthesis of HMG-CoA reductase);
squalene epoxidase inhibitors such as NB-598 ((E)-N-ethyl-N-(6,6- dimethyl-2-hepten-4-y- nyl
)-3-[(3,3'-bithiophen-5-yl)methoxy]benzene-methanamine hydrochloride); low density
lipoprotein (LDL) receptor inducers such as HOE-402 (an imidazolidinyl-pyrimidine derivative
that directly stimulates LDL receptor activity, see Huettinger et al (1993) Arterioscler. Thromb.
13:1005); platelet aggregation inhibitors; 5-LO or FLAP inhibitors; PPAR modulators (including
compounds that may have multiple functionality for activating various combinations of PPARa,
PPARy, and PPARS) such as those disclosed in US6008237, US6248781, US6166049,
                                                   81

  WOOO/12491, WOOO/218355, WOOO/23415, WOOO/23416, WOOO/23425, WOOO/23442,
  WOOO/23445, WOOO/23451, WOOO/236331, WOOO/236332, WOOO/238553, WOOO/50392,
  WOOO/53563, WOOO/63153, WOOO/63190, WOOO/63196, WOOO/63209, WOOO/78312,
  WOOO/78313, WOO1/04351, WOO1/14349, WOO1/14350, WOO1/16120, WOO1/17994,
  WOO1/21181, WO1/21578, WO1/25 181, WO1/25225, WO1/25226, WO1/40192,
  WOO1/79150, W002/081428, W002/100403, W002/102780, W002/79162, W003/016265,
  W003/033453, W003/042194, W003/043997, W003/066581, W097/25042, W099/07357,
  W099/11255, W099/12534, W099/15520, W099/46232, and W098/05331 (including GW233
  1 or (2-(4-[difluorophenyl]-l heptylureido)ethyl]phenoxy)-2-methylbutyric)); niacin-bound
  chromium, as disclosed in W003/039535; substituted acid derivatives disclosed in
  W003/040114; apolipoprotein B inhibitors such as those disclosed in W002/090347,
  W002/28835, W003/045921, W003/047575; Factor Xa modulators such as those disclosed in
  W003/047517, W003/047520, W003/048081; ileal bile acid transport ("IBAT") inhibitors (or
  apical sodium co-dependent bile acid transport ("ASBT") inhibitors) such as benzothiepines
  (including 1,2- benzothiazepines; 1,4- benzodiazepines; 1,5-benzothiazepines; 1,2, 5
  benzothiadiazepines); PPARS activators such as disclosed in WOO 1/00603 (thiazole and oxazole
  derivates (e.g. C.A.S. Registry No. 317318-32-4), W097/28149 (fluoro, chloro and thio phenoxy
  phenylacetic), US5093365 (non-I-oxidizable fatty acid analogues), and W099/04815. Tests
  showing the efficacy of the therapy and the rationale for the combination therapy with a
  dyslipidemic agent are presented in US2003 0069221 (where the dyslipidemic agents are called
  'cardiovascular agents').
          DOSAGE
          Dosage levels of active ingredients in a pharmaceutical composition can also be varied so as
5 to achieve a transient or sustained concentration of the compound in a subject, especially in and
  around the site of inflammation or disease area, and to result in the desired response. It is well
  within the skill of the art to start doses of the compound at levels lower than required to achieve
  the desired effect and to gradually increase the dosage until the desired effect is achieved. It will
  be understood that the specific dose level for any particular subject will depend on a variety of
  factors, including body weight, general health, diet, natural history of disease, route and
  scheduling of administration, combination with one or more other drugs, and severity of disease.
                                                      82

         An effective dosage of the composition will typically be between about 1 pg and about 10
mg per kilogram body weight, preferably between about 10 pg to 5 mg of the compound per
kilogram body weight. Adjustments in dosage will be made using methods that are routine in the
art and will be based upon the particular composition being used and clinical considerations.
         The guanylate cyclase receptor agonists used in the methods described above may be
administered orally, systemically or locally. Dosage forms include preparations for inhalation or
injection, solutions, suspensions, emulsions, tablets, capsules, topical salves and lotions,
transdermal compositions, other known peptide formulations and pegylated peptide analogs.
Agonists may be administered as either the sole active agent or in combination with other drugs,
e.g., an inhibitor of cGMP-dependent phosphodiesterase and anti-inflammatory agent. In all
cases, additional drugs should be administered at a dosage that is therapeutically effective using
the existing art as a guide. Drugs may be administered in a single composition or sequentially.
         Dosage levels of the Aad-GCRA peptides for use in methods of this invention typically
are from about 0.001 mg to about 10,000 mg daily, preferably from about 0.005 mg to about
1,000 mg daily. For example, an effective dosage of the Aad-GCRA peptides for use in methods
of this invention is 0.1, 0.2. 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0,
5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.5, 8.0, 8.5, 9.0, 9.5, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20 mg per day or
optionally twice a day. Preferably the Aad-GCRA peptide is given after a meal (i.e, 30 minutes).
In some embodiments a second agent described above is administered. In some aspects the
second agent is administered at less than the standard does for treating the particular disorder
because the Aad-GCRA peptide acts synergistically with the second agent. For example, 2.5, 5.
7.5 or 10 mg of Liptor is given twice a day after a meal (i.e, 30 minutes). On the basis of mg/kg
daily dose, either given in single or divided doses, dosages typically range from about 0.001/75
mg/kg to about 10,000/75 mg/kg, preferably from about 0.005/75 mg/kg to about 1,000/75
mg/kg.
         The total daily dose of each inhibitor can be administered to the patient in a single dose,
or in multiple subdoses. Typically, subdoses can be administered two to six times per day,
preferably two to four times per day, and even more preferably two to three times per day.
Doses can be in immediate release form or sustained release form sufficiently effective to obtain
the desired control over the medical condition.
                                                      83

         The dosage regimen to prevent, treat, give relief from, or ameliorate a medical
condition or disorder, or to otherwise protect against or treat a medical condition with the
combinations and compositions of the present invention is selected in accordance with a
variety of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the type, age, weight, sex,
diet, and medical condition of the subject, the severity of the disease, the route of
administration, pharmacological considerations such as the activity, efficacy,
pharmacokinetics and toxicology profiles of the particular inhibitors employed, whether a
drug delivery system is utilized, and whether the inhibitors are administered with other active
ingredients. Thus, the dosage regimen actually employed may vary widely and therefore
deviate from the preferred dosage regimen set forth above.
         Other embodiments of the invention as described herein are defined in the following
paragraphs:
1. A peptide consisting essentially of the sequence of any one of Table 1.
                                                                         2      36
2. The peptide of paragraph 1, wherein said peptide is Asn1 -Asp -Aad -Cys 4 -Glu 5 -Leu'
    Cys 7 -Val8 -Asn 9-Val10 -Ala"-Cys1 2-Thr1 3-Gly  4-Cys"-Leu"      (SEQ ID NO: 1), Asn -Asp2_
    Aad 3-Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu 6 -Cys 7 -Val8-Asn9-Val -Ala -Cys 12 -Thr -Gly 4-Cys -Ser          (SEQ
    ID NO: 32), Asn1 -Asp 2 -Aad3 -Cys 4-Glu 5-Leu6 -Cys 7 -Val-Asn 9-Val1 0 -Ala" -Cys 12 -Thr"
    Gly 1 4 -Cys 15 -Thr16 (SEQ ID NO: 119), Asn-Asp 2-Aad 3 -Cys4 -Gu 5-Leu 6 -Cys   7
                                                                                         -Val-Asn 9
    Val"-Ala"-Cys 12 -Thr -Gly 4-Cys 1 5-Tyr1 6 (SEQ ID NO: 120), dAsn1 -Asp 2 -Aad3-Cys 4
    Glu5 -Leu6-Cys 7 -Val8 -Asn 9-Val -Ala -Cys 12 -Thr 3-Gly 4-Cys -dLeu          (SEQ ID NO:
     17), or pyGlu -Asp 2 -Aad3 -Cys 4-Glu 5-Leu6 -Cys 7 -Val8 -Asn 9-Val 1 0 -Ala-Cys 12 -Thr"
    Gly 1 4 -Cys 15 -Leu16 (SEQ ID NO: 56).
3.  A pharmaceutical composition comprising the peptide of paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 in a
    therapeutically effective amount and a pharmaceutical carrier, excipient or diluent.
4. The peptide of paragraph 1, wherein said peptide increases cGMP production in a cell.
5. The peptide of paragraph 1, wherein said peptide is a bicyclic peptide.
6. A composition comprising an inert carrier coated with peptides of paragraph 1 and an
    enteric coating that releases the peptide at pH5.0 or pH7.0.
7. The composition of paragraph 6, wherein said inert carrier is a selected from mannitol,
    lactose, a microcrystalline cellulose, or starch.
8. A method for treating a condition that responds to enhanced cGMP levels in a patient
    comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of a peptide of
    paragraph 1, wherein said peptide is administered in an amount sufficient to increase
                                                  84

    water transport in the gastrointestinal tract and induce cGMP production in a
    gastrointestinal epithelial cell.
9. A method for preventing or treating a condition selected from the group consisting of
    ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), non-ulcer dyspepsia,
    chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction, functional dyspepsia, colonic pseudo-obstruction,
    duodenogastric reflux, constipation, chronic constipation, constipation associated with
    use of opiate pain killers, post-surgical constipation, constipation associated with
    neuropathic disorders, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), Celiac disease,
    gastroparesis, heartburn, poor gastrointestinal motility , congestive heart failure,
    hypertension, benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), colon cancer, lung cancer, bladder
    cancer, liver cancer, salivary gland cancer or skin cancer, bronchitis, tissue inflammation,
    organ inflammation, respiratory inflammation, asthma, COPD, lipid metabolism
    disorders, biliary disorders, cardiovascular disease, obesity and an endocrine disorder
    comprising administering to a patient in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount
    of a peptide of paragraph 1.
10. A method of colonic cleansing, comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an
    effective amount of a peptide of paragraph 1.
11. A method of increasing cGMP production in a cell comprising contacting said cell with a
    peptide of paragraph 1.
12. The method of paragraphs 8, 9, 10 or 11, wherein said peptide is Asn1 -Asp 2 -Aad3 -Cys       4
    Glu5 -Leu6-Cys 7 -Val'-Asn9-Val -Ala -Cys 12 -Thr 3-Gly 4-Cys -Leu         (SEQ ID NO: 1),
            1  2                                   8    9    1      11           13      14
    Asn -Asp -Aad3 -Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu6 -Cys 7 -Val'-Asn9-Val -Ala -Cys 12 -Thr -Gly -Cys 15
        16                                                             7   8      960           1
    Ser    (SEQ ID NO: 32), Asn1 -Asp2 -Aad3 -Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu 6 -Cys -Val8-Asn9-Val -Ala"
    Cys 12 -Thr13 -Gly 14-Cys 1 5 Thr16 (SEQ ID NO: 119), Asn-ASp 2-Aad 3 -CyS 4 -GlU5-LeU6
    Cys 7 -Val8 -Asn 9-Val10 -Ala"-Cys1 2-Thr1 3-Gly 4-Cys"-Tyr    (SEQ ID NO: 120), dAsn'
                                         7   8     9   101                        14      15        16
    Asp 2 -Aad3 -Cys 4-Glu 5-Leu 6 -Cys -Val8-Asn9-Val -Ala" -Cys 12 -Thr"-Gly      4-Cys    -dLeu
    (SEQ ID NO: 17), or pyGlul-Asp 2 -Aad3 -Cys 4-Glu 5-Leu 6 -Cys -Val8-Asn-Val "-Ala"
    Cys 12 -Thr13 -Gly 4-Cys"-Leu       (SEQ ID NO: 56).
13. The method of paragraphs 8, 9, 10 or 11, further comprising administering a
    therapeutically effective amount of a cGMP-dependent phosphodiesterase inhibitor.
14. The method of paragraph 13, wherein said cGMP-dependent phosphodiesterase inhibitor
    is administered either concurrently or sequentially with said guanylate cyclase receptor
    agonist.
                                                  85

15. The method of paragraph 13, wherein said cGMP-dependent phosphodiesterase inhibitor
    is selected from the group consisting of sulindac sulfone, zaprinast, motapizone,
    vardenafil, and sildenafil.
16. The method of paragraphs 8 or 9, further comprising administering a therapeutically
    effective amount of at least one anti-inflammatory agent.
17. The method of 16, wherein said anti-inflammatory agent is a steroid or nonsteroid anti
    inflammatory drug (NSAID).
18. The method of paragraph 10, further comprising administering to said subject an effective
    amount of L-glucose, lubiprostone (Amitiza), prucalopride, an agent for treating chronic
    constipation, or any combination thereof.
19. Use of a peptide of paragraph 1 in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a
    human disease.
                                                              1   2                   5
20. The use of paragraph 19, wherein said peptide is Asn -Asp -Aad3 -Cys 4 -Glu5 -Leu6 -Cys 7
    Val'-Asn9-Val"-Ala" -Cys 12 -Thr 13-Gly 14 -Cys15 -Leu  (SEQ ID NO: 1), Asn -Asp 2 -Aad3
    Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu 6 -Cys 7-Val8-Asn9-Val "-Ala" -Cys1 -Thr"-Gly  4-Cys     -Ser     (SEQ ID NO:
    32), Asn -Asp2 -Aad3 -Cys 4-Glu 5-Leu6 -Cys -Val8-Asn9-Val -Ala" -Cys       12
                                                                                   -Thr1"-Gly 1
    Cys 15 -Thr16 (SEQ ID NO: 119), Asn1 -Asp 2-Aad 3-Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu 6-Cys 7 -Val-Asn 9-Val   10
    Ala"1 -Cys 12 -Thr 13 -Gly 4-Cys -Tyr   (SEQ ID NO: 120), dAsn -Asp2 -Aad 3 -Cys 4 -Glu5
    Leu 6-Cys 7 -Val8-Asn9-Val0-Ala -Cys12 -Thr13 -Gly 1 4-Cys"-dLeu      (SEQ ID NO: 17), or
                  2       3                         86          0
    pyGlul-Asp -Aad -Cys 4-Glu 5 -Leu 6 -Cys 7 -Val8-Asn9-Val0-Ala "-Cys    12
                                                                               -Thr13-Gly 44-Cys"1
    Leu1 (SEQ ID NO: 56).
                                                 86

CLAIMS
1. A peptide consisting of the sequence of any one of SEQ ID NOs: 1-38, 50-94, 119, and
   120.
                                                             1 2                    5    6
2. The peptide of claim 1, wherein said peptide is Asn -Asp -Aad3 -Cys 4 -Glu5 -Leu -Cys 7
   Val'-Asn9-Val"-Ala" -Cys 12 -Thr 13-Gly 14 -Cys15 -Leu    (SEQ ID NO: 1), Asn -Asp 2 -Aad3
   Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu 6 -Cys7 -Val8-Asn9-Val   -Ala" -Cys1 -Thr"-Gly    4-Cys   -Ser    (SEQ ID NO:
                            2                         8    9      101
   32), Asn -Asp2 -Aad3 -Cys 4-Glu 5-Leu6 -Cys -Val8-Asn9-Val -Ala" -Cys        12
                                                                                   -Thr -Gly 14
   Cys 15 -Thr16 (SEQ ID NO: 119), Asn1 -Asp 2-Aad 3-Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu 6-Cys 7 -Val-Asn 9-Val    10
   Ala"1 -Cys 12 -Thr 13 -Gly 4-Cys -Tyr   (SEQ ID NO: 120), dAsn -Asp2 -Aad 3 -Cys 4 -Glu5
   Leu 6 -Cys 7 -Val8-Asn9-Val'-Ala -Cys12 -Thr13 -Gly 1 4-Cys"-dLeu      (SEQ ID NO: 17), or
                 2       3                          8    9     10
   pyGlul-Asp -Aad -Cys 4-Glu 5 -Leu 6 -Cys 7 -Val8-Asn9-Val0-Ala "-Cys     12
                                                                               -Thr"-Gly 144-Cys"1
   Leu1 (SEQ ID NO: 56).
3. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the peptide of claim 1 or claim 2 in a
   therapeutically effective amount and a pharmaceutical carrier, excipient or diluent.
4. The peptide of claim 1, wherein said peptide increases cGMP production in a cell.
5. The peptide of claim 1, wherein said peptide is a bicyclic peptide.
6. A composition comprising an inert carrier coated with the peptide of claim 1 or claim 2
   and an enteric coating that releases the peptide at pH5.0 or pH7.0.
7. The composition of claim 6, wherein said inert carrier is a selected from mannitol,
   lactose, a microcrystalline cellulose, or starch.
8. A method for treating a condition that responds to enhanced cGMP levels in a patient
   comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of a peptide of
   claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said peptide is administered in an amount sufficient to
   increase water transport in the gastrointestinal tract and induce cGMP production in a
   gastrointestinal epithelial cell.
9. A method for preventing or treating a condition selected from the group consisting of
   ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), chronic intestinal
   pseudo-obstruction, colonic pseudo-obstruction, duodenogastric reflux, constipation,
   chronic constipation, constipation associated with use of opiate pain killers, post-surgical
   constipation, constipation associated with neuropathic disorders, Celiac disease,
   gastroparesis, and poor gastrointestinal motility, comprising administering to a patient in
   need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a peptide of claim 1 or claim 2.
                                                 87

10. A method of colonic cleansing, comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an
    effective amount of a peptide of claim 1 or claim 2.
11. A method of increasing cGMP production in a cell comprising contacting said cell with a
    peptide of claim 1 or claim 2.
12. The method of any one of claims 8 to 11, wherein said peptide is Asn1 -Asp 2 -Aad3 -Cys       4
    Glu5 -Leu6-Cys 7 -Val'-Asn9 -Val -Ala -Cys 12 -Thr 3-Gly 4-Cys -Leu       (SEQ ID NO: 1),
            1 2                                    8    9    1       11          13      14
    Asn -Asp -Aad3 -Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu6 -Cys 7 -Val'-Asn-Val "-Ala -Cys 12 -Thr -Gly -Cys 15
        16                                                               7 8      960           1
    Ser    (SEQ ID NO: 32), Asn1 -Asp 2 -Aad3 -Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu 6 -Cys -Val8-Asn9-Val -Ala"
    Cys 12 -Thr13 -Gly 14-Cys 1 5 Thr16 (SEQ ID NO: 119), Asn1 -Asp 2-Aad 3-Cys 4 -Glu 5-Leu 6
    Cys 7 -Val8 -Asn 9-Val10 -Ala"-Cys1 2-Thr1 3-Gly 4-Cys"-Tyr     (SEQ ID NO: 120), dAsn'
                                         7   8     9   101                        14      15       16
    Asp 2 -Aad3 -Cys 4-Glu 5-Leu 6 -Cys -Val8-Asn9-Val -Ala" -Cys -Thr"-Gly
                                                                      12
                                                                                    4-Cys    -dLeu
    (SEQ ID NO: 17), or pyGlul-Asp 2 -Aad3 -Cys 4-Glu 5-Leu 6 -Cys -Val8-Asn-Val "-Ala"
    Cys 12 -Thr13 -Gly 4-Cys"-Leu       (SEQ ID NO: 56).
13. The method of any one of claims 8 to 11, further comprising administering a
    therapeutically effective amount of a cGMP-dependent phosphodiesterase inhibitor.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein said cGMP-dependent phosphodiesterase inhibitor is
    administered either concurrently or sequentially with said guanylate cyclase receptor
    agonist.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein said cGMP-dependent phosphodiesterase inhibitor is
    selected from the group consisting of sulindac sulfone, zaprinast, motapizone, vardenafil,
    and sildenafil.
16. The method of claim 8 or claim 9, further comprising administering a therapeutically
    effective amount of at least one anti-inflammatory agent.
17. The method of 16, wherein said anti-inflammatory agent is a steroid or nonsteroid anti
    inflammatory drug (NSAID).
18. The method of claim 10, further comprising administering to said subject an effective
    amount of L-glucose, lubiprostone (Amitiza), prucalopride, an agent for treating chronic
    constipation, or any combination thereof.
19. Use of a peptide of claim 1 or claim 2 in the manufacture of a medicament for the
    treatment of a condition selected from the group consisting of ulcerative colitis, Crohn's
    disease, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction, colonic
    pseudo-obstruction, duodenogastric reflux, constipation, chronic constipation,
    constipation associated with use of opiate pain killers, post-surgical constipation,
                                                  88

    constipation associated with neuropathic disorders, Celiac disease, gastroparesis, and poor
    gastrointestinal motility.
20. Use of a peptide of claim 1 or claim 2 in the manufacture of a medicament for colonic
    cleansing.
                                               89

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                   40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
                                               SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110>   Sy ner gy Phar mac eut i c al s I nc
                      Shai l ubhai , Kunwar
              <120>   Agoni s t s Of Guany l at e Cy c l as e And Thei r Us es
              <130>   40737- 514001WO
              <150>   US 61/ 790266
              <151>   2013- 03- 15
              <150>   US 61/ 826749
<removed-apn>
              <151>   2013- 05- 23
              <160>   120
              <170>   Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
              <210>   1
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <400>   1
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   2
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 2) . . ( 2)
              <223>   Aad
              <400>   2
              As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              <210>   3
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
                                                             Page 1

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 2) . . ( 2)
              <223>   Aad
              <400>   3
              As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s
              1                  5                     10
              <210>   4
              <211>   14
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   Aad
              <400>   4
              Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                 5                      10
              <210>   5
              <211>   13
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   Aad
              <400>   5
              Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s
              1                 5                      10
              <210>   6
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
                                                             Page 2

                                               40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   6
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   7
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu
              <400>   7
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
              <210>   8
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 2) . . ( 2)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs p
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu
              <400>   8
                                                            Page 3

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                5                      10                     15
              <210>   9
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <400>   9
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                 5                      10                     15
              <210>   10
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 6) . . ( 6)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu
              <400>   10
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Xaa Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
              <210>   11
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
                                                             Page 4

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <400>   11
<removed-apn>
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   12
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu, and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   12
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   13
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n, and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
                                                             Page 5

                                               40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu, and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   13
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
              <210>   14
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n, and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 2) . . ( 2)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs p
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   14
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                5                      10                     15
              <210>   15
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
                                                          Page 6

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <400>   15
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
              <210>   16
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu
              <400>   16
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   17
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s an Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu
              <400>   17
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
                                                        Page 7

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              1                       5                     10                   15
              <210>   18
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   18
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   19
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 2) . . ( 2)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs p
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu
              <400>   19
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                5                      10                     15
              <210>   20
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
                                                             Page 8

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 2) . . ( 2)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs p
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   20
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                5                      10                     15
              <210>   21
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a D- 3- ( 2- napht hy l ) al ani ne ( dNal )
              <400>   21
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
              <210>   22
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
                                                             Page 9

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
<removed-apn>
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 8) . . ( 8)
              <223>   Ai b
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 10) . . ( 10)
              <223>   Ai b
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu
              <400>   22
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Xaa As n Xaa Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
              <210>   23
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 7) . . ( 7)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s an As p, f or ms a l ac t am br i dge wi t h r es i due 15
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 15) . . ( 15)
              <223>   Or n
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
                                                            Page 10

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu
              <400>   23
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Xaa Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Xaa Xaa
              1                 5                     10                     15
              <210>   24
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu
              <400>   24
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Ty r Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                       10                     15
              <210>   25
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu
              <400>   25
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Ser Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
                                                            Page 11

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <210>   26
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
<removed-apn>
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   26
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Ty r Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                       10                     15
              <210>   27
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu
              <400>   27
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Ty r Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                       10                     15
              <210>   28
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
                                                            Page 12

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   28
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Ty r Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                       10                     15
              <210>   29
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   29
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Ser Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
              <210>   30
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
                                                            Page 13

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu
              <400>   30
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Ser Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   31
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   31
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Ser Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
              <210>   32
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <400>   32
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   33
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
                                                            Page 14

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
<removed-apn>
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   33
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   34
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <400>   34
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   35
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
                                                            Page 15

                                                 40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   35
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   36
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dSer and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   36
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   37
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dSer
              <400>   37
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                  5                      10                     15
                                                           Page 16

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <210>   38
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dSer and a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   38
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   39
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 5) . . ( 6)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 8) . . ( 10)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 11) . . ( 11)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 13) . . ( 14)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
                                                          Page 17

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <400>   39
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa
              1                  5                    10                   15
              <210>   40
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 2)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s abs ent or any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or
                      anal ogue t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 5) . . ( 6)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 8) . . ( 11)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 13) . . ( 14)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s abs ent or any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or
                      anal ogue t her eof
              <400>   40
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa
              1                5                    10                   15
              <210>   41
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
                                                            Page 18

                                                40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 2)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s abs ent or any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or
                      anal ogue t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 4) . . ( 4)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a Cy s , Peni c i l l ami ne ( Pen) , homoc y s t ei ne or
<removed-apn>
                      3- mer c apt opr ol i ne
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 6) . . ( 6)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 7) . . ( 7)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a Cy s , Peni c i l l ami ne ( Pen) , homoc y s t ei ne or
                      3- mer c apt opr ol i ne
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 12) . . ( 12)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a Cy s , Peni c i l l ami ne ( Pen) , homoc y s t ei ne or
                      3- mer c apt opr ol i ne
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 15) . . ( 15)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a Cy s , Peni c i l l ami ne ( Pen) , homoc y s t ei ne or
                      3- mer c apt opr ol i ne
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s abs ent or any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or
                      anal ogue t her eof
              <400>   41
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Gl u Xaa Xaa Val As n Val Al a Xaa Thr Gl y Xaa Xaa
              1               5                     10                    15
              <210>   42
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 2)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s abs ent or any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or
                      anal ogue t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
                                                             Page 19

                                                  40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 2)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 4) . . ( 4)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a Cy s , Peni c i l l ami ne ( Pen) , homoc y s t ei ne or
                      3- mer c apt opr ol i ne
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 5) . . ( 6)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 7) . . ( 7)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a Cy s , Peni c i l l ami ne ( Pen) , homoc y s t ei ne or
                      3- mer c apt opr ol i ne
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 8) . . ( 11)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 12) . . ( 12)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a Cy s , Peni c i l l ami ne ( Pen) , homoc y s t ei ne or
                      3- mer c apt opr ol i ne
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 13) . . ( 14)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 15) . . ( 15)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a Cy s , Peni c i l l ami ne ( Pen) , homoc y s t ei ne or
                      3- mer c apt opr ol i ne
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 15)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s abs ent or any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or
                      anal ogue t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   42
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   43
                                                             Page 20

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 5) . . ( 6)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 8) . . ( 8)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 10) . . ( 11)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 13) . . ( 14)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <400>   43
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa As n Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa
              1                  5                     10                   15
              <210>   44
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
                                                            Page 21

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 5) . . ( 6)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 8) . . ( 8)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 10) . . ( 11)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 13) . . ( 14)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a D- f or m of any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or
                      anal ogue t her eof
              <400>   44
              Xaa Gl u Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa As n Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                     10                   15
              <210>   45
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 2) . . ( 2)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dGl u
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 5) . . ( 6)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
                                                            Page 22

                                               40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <222>   ( 8) . . ( 8)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 10) . . ( 11)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 13) . . ( 14)
<removed-apn>
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s D- f or m of any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or
                      anal ogue t her eof
              <400>   45
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa As n Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa
              1                5                     10                   15
              <210>   46
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 2) . . ( 2)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs p
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 5) . . ( 6)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 8) . . ( 8)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 10) . . ( 11)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                                                          Page 23

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 13) . . ( 14)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s D- f or m of any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or
                      anal ogue t her eof
<removed-apn>
              <400>   46
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa As n Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa
              1                5                     10                   15
              <210>   47
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 2) . . ( 2)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs p
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 5) . . ( 6)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 8) . . ( 8)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 10) . . ( 11)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 13) . . ( 14)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
                                                            Page 24

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s D- f or m of any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or
                      anal ogue t her eof
              <400>   47
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Ty r Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa
              1                5                     10                   15
              <210>   48
<removed-apn>
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 2) . . ( 2)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dGl u
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 4) . . ( 4)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 5) . . ( 6)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 7) . . ( 7)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 8) . . ( 8)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 10) . . ( 11)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 12) . . ( 12)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
                                                           Page 25

                                                       40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>      MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>      ( 13) . . ( 14)
              <223>      wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                         t her eof
              <220>
              <221>      mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>      ( 15) . . ( 15)
              <223>      Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>      MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>      ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>      wher ei n Xaa i s D- f or m of any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or
                         anal ogue t her eof
              <220>
              <221>      mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>      ( 18) . . ( 18)
              <223>      Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>      48
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Ty r Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa
              1               5                     10                    15
              Cy s Xaa
              <210>      49
              <211>      14
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>      MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>      ( 1) . . ( 2)
              <223>      wher ei n Xaa i s abs ent or any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or
                         anal ogue t her eof
              <220>
              <221>      MOD_RES
              <222>      ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>      Aad
              <220>
              <221>      mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>      ( 4) . . ( 4)
              <223>      Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <220>
              <221>      MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>      ( 5) . . ( 11)
              <223>      wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                         t her eof
              <220>
              <221>      mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>      ( 12) . . ( 12)
              <223>      Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
                                                              Page 26

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 13) . . ( 15)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s abs ent or any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or
                      anal ogue t her eof
<removed-apn>
              <400>   49
              Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Cy s Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1                5                   10
              <210>   50
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   AMI DATI ON
              <400>   50
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
              <210>   51
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
                                                            Page 27

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dSer
              <400>   51
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
<removed-apn>
              1                 5                      10                     15
              <210>   52
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dSer
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   AMI DATI ON
              <400>   52
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
              <210>   53
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
                                                            Page 28

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dTy r
              <400>   53
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   54
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dAs n
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dTy r
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   AMI DATI ON
              <400>   54
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
              <210>   55
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a py r ogl ut ami c ac i d
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
                                                            Page 29

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a dLeu
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   AMI DATI ON
              <400>   55
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Xaa
              1                 5                      10                     15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   56
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a py r ogl ut ami c ac i d
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <400>   56
              Xaa As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                 5                      10                     15
              <210>   57
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   57
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                      10                     15
                                                         Page 30

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <210>   58
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
<removed-apn>
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   wher ei n a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he N- t er mi nus
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <400>   58
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   59
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 5) . . ( 5)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n a PEG i s c onj ugat ed at t he C- t er mi nus
              <400>   59
              As n As p Gl u Cy s Xaa Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                   5                     10                     15
              <210>   60
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
                                                            Page 31

                                               40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 2)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 4) . . ( 4)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a Cy s , Peni c i l l ami ne ( Pen) , homoc y s t ei ne or
<removed-apn>
                      3- mer c apt opr ol i ne
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 5) . . ( 6)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 7) . . ( 7)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a Cy s , Peni c i l l ami ne ( Pen) , homoc y s t ei ne or
                      3- mer c apt opr ol i ne
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 8) . . ( 11)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 12) . . ( 12)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a Cy s , Peni c i l l ami ne ( Pen) , homoc y s t ei ne or
                      3- mer c apt opr ol i ne
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 13) . . ( 14)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 15) . . ( 15)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a Cy s , Peni c i l l ami ne ( Pen) , homoc y s t ei ne or
                      3- mer c apt opr ol i ne
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 16) . . ( 16)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s any nat ur al , unnat ur al ami no ac i d or anal ogue
                      t her eof
              <400>   60
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   61
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
                                                             Page 32

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   61
              Gl u As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                      10                     15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   62
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   62
              Gl u Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   63
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   63
              As p As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   64
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
                                                           Page 33

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <400>   64
              As p Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   65
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   65
              Gl n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   66
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   66
              Gl n Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   67
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   67
              Ly s As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   68
                                                            Page 34

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
<removed-apn>
              <400>   68
              Ly s Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   69
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   69
              Gl u As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   70
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   70
              Gl u Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   71
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
                                                            Page 35

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   71
              As p As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   72
              <211>   16
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   72
              As p Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   73
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   73
              Gl n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   74
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   74
              Gl n Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
                                                         Page 36

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              1                   5                         10                     15
              <210>   75
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   75
              Ly s As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   76
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   76
              Ly s Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                      10                     15
              <210>   77
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   77
              Gl u As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   78
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
                                                            Page 37

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   78
              Gl u Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                        10                     15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   79
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   79
              As p As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   80
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   80
              As p Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   81
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
                                                           Page 38

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <400>   81
              Gl n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   82
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   82
              Gl n Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   83
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   83
              Ly s As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   84
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   84
              Ly s Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Leu
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   85
                                                            Page 39

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
<removed-apn>
              <400>   85
              Gl u As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   86
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   86
              Gl u Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   87
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   87
              As p As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   88
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
                                                            Page 40

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <400>   88
              As p Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   89
              <211>   16
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   89
              As p Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   90
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   90
              Gl n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   91
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>   91
              Gl n Gl u As p Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                   5                        10                     15
              <210>   92
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
                                                            Page 41

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   92
<removed-apn>
              Gl n Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   93
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   93
              Ly s As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   94
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>   94
              Ly s Gl u Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s I l e As n Met Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ser
              1                  5                        10                     15
              <210>   95
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>   95
              Gl n Hi s As n Pr o Ar g
                                                            Page 42

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              1                   5
              <210>   96
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>   96
<removed-apn>
              Val Gl n Hi s As n Pr o Ar g
              1                  5
              <210>   97
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>   97
              Val Ar g Gl n Hi s As n Pr o Ar g
              1                  5
              <210>   98
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>   98
              Val Ar g Gl y Gl n Hi s As n Pr o Ar g
              1                  5
              <210>   99
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>   99
              Val Ar g Gl y Pr o Gl n Hi s As n Pr o Ar g
              1                  5
              <210>   100
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>   100
                                                            Page 43

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              Val Ar g Gl y Pr o Ar g Gl n Hi s As n Pr o Ar g
              1                  5                        10
              <210>   101
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
<removed-apn>
              <400>   101
              Val Ar g Gl y Pr o Ar g Ar g Gl n Hi s As n Pr o Ar g
              1                  5                        10
              <210>   102
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>   102
              Ar g Gl n Hi s As n Pr o Ar g
              1                   5
              <210>   103
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 2) . . ( 2)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s a D- Ly s
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 5) . . ( 5)
              <223>   wher ei n Xaa i s an L- homos er i ne
              <400>   103
              Ty r Xaa Gl y Phe Xaa
              1                 5
              <210>   104
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
                                                            Page 44

                                                     40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <221>       MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>       ( 2) . . ( 2)
              <223>       wher ei n Xaa i s a D- Al a
              <220>
              <221>       MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>       ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>       wher ei n a f l uor o gr oup i s at t ac hed t o Phe
              <220>
              <221>       MOD_RES
              <222>       ( 4) . . ( 4)
              <223>       AMI DATI ON
<removed-apn>
              <400>       104
              Ty r Xaa Phe Phe
              1
              <210>       105
              <211>       34
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>       Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>       105
              I l e Ly s Pr o Gl u Al a Pr o Gl y Gl u As p Al a Ser Pr o Gl u Gl u Leu As n
              1                    5                        10                      15
              Ar g Ty r Ty r Al a Ser Leu Ar g Hi s Ty r Leu As n Leu Val Thr Ar g Gl n
                             20                     25                    30
              Ar g Ty r
              <210>       106
              <211>       27
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>       Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>       MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>       ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>       wher ei n R gr oup i s at t ac hed, and R=H or an or gani c c ompound
                          hav i ng f r om 1 t o 10 c ar bon at oms
              <220>
              <221>       MOD_RES
              <222>       ( 27) . . ( 27)
              <223>       AMI DATI ON
              <400>       106
              Hi s Al a Gl u Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Val Ser Ty r Leu Gl u Gl y Gl n
              1                   5                    10                    15
                                                               Page 45

                                                  40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              Al a Al a Ly s Gl u Phe I l e Al a Tr p Leu Val Ly s
                             20                       25
              <210>   107
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>   107
<removed-apn>
              Ly s Ty r Ty r Ar g Tr p Ar g
              1                   5
              <210>   108
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>   108
              Ar g Ty r Ty r Ar g Tr p Ar g
              1                   5
              <210>   109
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>   109
              Ly s Tr p Ar g Ty r Ty r Ar g
              1                   5
              <210>   110
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>   110
              Ar g Ty r Ty r Ar g Tr p Ly s
              1                   5
              <210>   111
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
                                                         Page 46

                                                     40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>    MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>    ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>    wher ei n Xaa i s a D- Ar g
              <220>
              <221>    MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>    ( 2) . . ( 3)
              <223>    wher ei n Xaa i s a D- Ty r
              <220>
              <221>    MI SC_FEATURE
<removed-apn>
              <222>    ( 4) . . ( 4)
              <223>    wher ei n Xaa i s a D- Ar g
              <220>
              <221>    MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>    ( 5) . . ( 5)
              <223>    wher ei n Xaa i s a D- Tr p
              <220>
              <221>    MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>    ( 6) . . ( 6)
              <223>    wher ei n Xaa i s a D- Ar g
              <400>    111
              Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5
              <210>    112
              <211>    6
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>    112
              Ar g Ty r Ty r Ar g I l e Ly s
              1                   5
              <210>    113
              <211>    6
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>    113
              Ar g Ty r Ty r Ar g I l e Ar g
              1                   5
              <210>    114
              <211>    6
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
                                                             Page 47

                                                     40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <400>    114
              Ar g Ty r Ty r Ly s I l e Ly s
              1                   5
              <210>    115
              <211>    6
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
<removed-apn>
              <400>    115
              Ar g Ty r Ty r Ly s I l e Ar g
              1                   5
              <210>    116
              <211>    6
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>    116
              Ar g Ty r Ty r Ly s Tr p Ar g
              1                   5
              <210>    117
              <211>    6
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>    117
              Ar g Ty r Ty r Ly s Tr p Ly s
              1                   5
              <210>    118
              <211>    6
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <400>    118
              Ly s Ty r Ty r Ar g Tr p Ly s
              1                   5
              <210>    119
              <211>    16
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
                                                             Page 48

                                                    40737- 514001WO_ST25. TXT
<removed-date>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <400>   119
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Thr
              1                  5                      10                     15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   120
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Sy nt hes i z ed pept i de
              <220>
              <221>   MOD_RES
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Aad
              <400>   120
              As n As p Xaa Cy s Gl u Leu Cy s Val As n Val Al a Cy s Thr Gl y Cy s Ty r
              1                  5                      10                     15
                                                            Page 49

