                                         ABSTRACT
A chemically modified cellulosic web of needled fibres having a tensile strength of at least
3N per cm measured in the cross direction is obtained by processing cellulosic fibres into
chemically modified cellulosic fibres having a moisture content of from 11% to 18% by
weight. The cellulosic fibres are chemically modified prior to being needled to form the
chemically modified cellulosic web of needled fibres.

                                                  -1
                  Processing of Chemically Modified Cellulosic Fibres
    The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application
    No. 2013366038, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
    This invention relates to chemically modified cellulosic fibres and processes for making
 5  nonwoven fibre webs from them. In particular it relates to chemically modified
    cellulosic fibres which may be carded on a carding machine to produce a web. The
    fibres may be ultimately processed into nonwoven fabrics for instance by needling or
    entangling the web, the fabrics being suitable for use in absorbent personal products or
    absorbent medical products such as wound dressings. Also described are carding
 0  processes suitable for forming webs of chemically modified cellulosic fibres or blends of
    chemically modified fibres with other non-gelling fibres, for example viscose or Tencel
    or other cellulosic fibres.
    Absorbent cellulosic fibres are well known. For instance GB-A-2220881 and GB-A
    2094802 describe the production of carboxymethyl cellulose fibres from regenerated
 5  cellulose fibres (viscose rayon) fibres or from cotton. It is also known that
    carboxymethyl cellulose fibre of greater absorbency and strength can be produced from
    solvent-spun cellulose fibre. Such fibres are described in EP 0616650 and are
    manufactured by reacting solvent spun cellulose fibre with a strong alkali and a
    monochloroacetic acid reagent. It is also known that alternative chemical modification
 '0 of cellulose fibres is possible and also has the effect of increasing the absorbency of the
    cellulose fibre. The cellulose fibre can for instance be modified by sulphonation, for
    example by substitution with an alkyl sulphonate at one or more of the hydroxyl groups
    on the anhydroglucose monomers that make up the cellulose backbone forming ether
    linkages. Modified cellulose of this type is known as cellulose sulphonate or cellulose
25  alkyl sulphonate some of the insoluble forms of which are described in
    W02012/061225.
    Modifying the cellulose fibre requires the fibre to be exposed to one or more reagents
    which modify the cellulose by substitution, the degree of substitution determining the
    absorbency and solubility of the fibre. As the degree of substitution is increased the

                                                 -2
    modified cellulose becomes increasingly soluble. As the solubility increases,
    absorbency also increases.
    For some applications, for instance for absorbent gelling wound dressings, the
    chemically modified fibres need to be insoluble and retain some of their fibrous form
 5  when exposed to wound fluid and consequently a balance needs to be found between
    solubility and absorbency. The chemically modified fibre can be in the form of a tow,
    filament, sliver, yarn or staple fibre, woven, non-woven or knitted fabric.
    Once the modification and neutralisation in acid has taken place, the fibres need to be
    washed to remove any unreacted alkali, chloroacetate, alkylsulphonate, other modifying
 0  agent or any by-products such as sodium chloride or sodium glycollate. An aqueous
    wash is generally used initially, preferably a mixture of water with a water-miscible
    organic solvent such as water and IMS, the major portion of the wash being organic
    solvent. The wash may contain an organic hydroxyl compound, a surfactant, and/or
    acid. The organic hydroxyl compound is a compound containing at least one alcoholic
 5  hydroxyl group, for example ethanol, methanol or another low molecular weight alcohol
    and/or a compound such as ethylene glycol or propylene glycol.
    The final wash or finish typically comprises a large percentage of alcohol for instance,
    99% industrial alcohol and 1% emulsifier or 100% alcohol. After washing, the fibres
    are dried at low temperature for instance as described in EP 0680344, by forced air
 '0 drying or radiant heat drying.
    As the washing step or steps to which the fibres are subjected following modification
    involve the use of relatively high percentages of organic solvents such as industrial
    alcohol, the drying of the fibres requires the solvents that are released to be managed
    from an environmental and safety perspective. It would be desirable to reduce the
25  percentage of organic solvents used in the washing process so that environmental and
    safety standards can be readily met. There are also potential cost and efficiency
    advantages to using a lower percentage of organic solvents as the cost of materials and
    duty are reduced.
    We have found that reducing, for instance, the percentage of organic solvent in the wash
30  liquor used to wash modified cellulose fibres results in fibres that have a lower tensile

                                                -3
   strength making them less suitable for processing on textile machinery such as a
   carding machine. The lower tensile strength can lead to the problem of fibre breakage
   on carding which gives higher levels of airborne lint or dust (fly) and greater shedding
   of broken fibre from the finished fabric. The higher level of fly necessitates increased
 5 cleaning and environment management in the fabric production process which in turn
   increases cost. There is also more wastage in the process as fibres tend to drop out of
   the fabric during the process of manufacture.
   Fibre breakage can also adversely affect the staple length which has the effect of
   reducing the strength of a carded web and nonwoven fabric made from the fibres. It is
 o possible that fibre breakage leads to a failed card process where no non-woven mat is
   produced. A weaker product can be more difficult to remove from the wound as the
   integrity of the dressing can be compromised.
   A reference herein to a patent document or any other matter identified as prior art, is
   not to be taken as an admission that the document or other matter was known or that
 5 the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority
   date of any of the claims.
   We have now found that it is possible to mitigate the problem of low tensile strength in
   modified fibres by controlled management of the moisture content of the fibres.
   Accordingly, a chemically modified cellulosic web of fibres is described herein having a
20 tensile strength of at least 3N per cm (N/cm) in the cross direction produced by
   processing fibres having a moisture content of at least 7% by weight.
   Controlling the moisture content of the fibres, either by controlling the drying process
   following washing of the modified fibres as part of the chemical modification process or
   by conditioning the fibres to increase their moisture content to at least 7% subsequent
25 to drying, increases the tensile strength of the fibres to the point where it is possible to
   process the fibres for example on a carding machine to produce a non-woven fibre web
   without the production of excessive fly or shedding from a fabric produced from the
   web. Preferably the moisture content of the fibres is kept at between 11 and 20% by
   controlling the drying process following washing of the modified fibres as part of the
30 chemical modification process.

                                                -4
   Preferably the tensile strength is measured in the cross direction on needled webs
   having a basis weight in the range of 80 to 120 gsm.
   Viewed from one aspect, the present invention provides a chemically modified cellulosic
   web of needled fibres having a tensile strength of at least 3N per cm measured in the
 5 cross direction obtained by processing cellulosic fibres into chemically modified
   cellulosic fibres having a moisture content of from 11% to 18% by weight, wherein the
   cellulosic fibres are chemically modified prior to being needled to form the chemically
   modified cellulosic web of needled fibres.
   A process for producing a non-woven web of chemically modified cellulosic fibres is also
 0 described herein comprising the steps of:
           (i)     obtaining chemically modified cellulosic fibres with a moisture content of
   at least 7%;
           (ii)    carding the fibres to make a nonwoven web of fibres.
   The fibres are typically those resulting from a modification process using a wash or final
 5 rinse comprising less than 99% by weight such as 95% by weight of organic solvent in
   the wash liquor. By controlling the moisture content, the fibres can be processed into a
   consolidated form that allows a fabric to be produced by conventional carding means
   while mitigating the problem of fibre breakage and fly in the environment of the fabric
   production plant. A consolidated form could for example be a yarn, sliver, woven, non
20 woven or knitted fabric.
   When the fibres are to be processed using textiling machinery, if it is found that the
   moisture content of the fibres is too low, the moisture content of the modified cellulosic
   fibres is increased by exposing the fibres to a moisture rich environment for at least 24
   hours. Alternatively the drying of the fibres at the end of the chemical modification
25 process can be controlled so that the moisture content of the fibres is maintained above
   7% until the fibres are subjected to further processing such as with textiling machinery
   for instance by carding and needling.

                                                -5
   Preferably the carded, needled fibre web has a tensile strength of from 3N/cm to 25
   N/cm, more preferably from 7N/cm to 25N/cm and most preferably from 1ON/cm to
   25N/cm.
   The tensile strength of the carded, needled web is measured by cutting five specimens
 5 to a size of 25 mm x 75 mm with the long dimension being in the direction to be tested.
   Tensile testing is carried out at a gauge length (effective test fabric length) of 50mm.
   One end of the sample is fixed in an upper jaw of a tensile testing machine and allowed
   to dangle into the lower jaw. The sample is then fixed by closing the jaws without
   stretching the sample or allowing it to be slack. The crosshead speed is set to
 0 100mm/min and the sample pulled to break. The tensile strength is calculated by
   dividing the force at break by the sample width in cm.
   Preferably the moisture content of the fibres prior to processing with textiling
   machinery is from 7% to 20% by weight and more preferably from 11% to 18%. More
   preferably the moisture content is from 11.5% and 15% by weight and most preferably
 5 it is between 12 and 15% by weight. A moisture content of 12.5% to 15% is particularly
   preferred and 15% is most preferred.
   By the term moisture content is meant the amount of moisture (measured by weight)
   contained in the sample of fibres as a percentage of its conditioned weight and
   measured by the loss on drying.
20 The moisture content of the fibres is measured by calculating the loss on drying using a
   moisture balance operated in accordance with the instrument manual. For
   convenience, during the process for making the fibres, comparative measurements of
   moisture content can be made using a moisture meter for instance an Aquaboy (TEMI).
   By the term carding in the present invention is meant a mechanical process that
25 disentangles, cleans and intermixes fibres to produce a continuous web or sliver
   suitable for further processing.
   A chemically modified cellulosic fibre having a moisture content of at least 7% by
   weight is also described herein.

                                                 -6
    Viewed from another aspect, the present invention provides a process for producing a
    non-woven web of chemically modified cellulosic fibres, the process comprising the
    steps of: (i) obtaining chemically modified cellulosic fibres with a moisture content of
    from 11% to 18% by weight, wherein the chemically modified cellulosic fibres are
 5  obtained from a chemical modification process wherein the chemically modified
    cellulosic fibres are subjected to a final wash with a composition comprising less than
    99% by weight of an organic solvent; and (ii) carding and needling the chemically
    modified cellulosic fibres to make the non-woven web of chemically modified cellulosic
    fibres.
 o  Viewed from another aspect, the present invention provides a process for producing a
    chemically modified cellulosic fibre or filament having a moisture content of from 11%
    to 18% by weight, the process comprising the steps of: (i) obtaining cellulosic fibres or
    filaments and chemically modifying the cellulosic fibres or filaments by substitution to
    increase its absorbency; (ii) washing the chemically modified fibres or filaments with a
 5  final wash composition comprising water and less than 99% by weight of water
    miscible organic solvent; and (iii)   drying the chemically modified fibres or filaments in
    a controlled atmosphere to a moisture content of from 11% to 18% by weight.
    Viewed from another aspect, the present invention provides a chemically modified
    cellulosic fibre or filament having a moisture content of from 11% to 18% by weight
 '0 obtained by a process comprising the steps of: (i) obtaining cellulosic fibres or filaments
    and chemically modifying the cellulosic fibres or filaments by substitution to increase its
    absorbency; (ii) washing the chemically modified fibres or filaments after step (i) in a
    final wash mixture comprising water and less than 99% by weight of water-miscible
    organic solvent; and (iii) drying the chemically modified fibres or filaments to a
25  moisture content of from 11% to 18% by weight.
    Viewed from another aspect, the present invention provides a process for producing a
    chemically modified cellulosic fibre or filament having a moisture content of from 11%
    to 18% by weight, the process comprising the steps of: (i) obtaining cellulosic fibres or
    filaments and chemically modifying the cellulosic fibres or filaments by substitution to
30  increase its absorbency; (ii) washing the chemically modified fibres or filaments with a
    final wash composition comprising less than 99% by weight of an organic solvent; and

                                                -7
   (iii) conditioning the chemically modified fibres or filaments in an atmosphere having a
   relative humidity of at least 40% to increase the moisture content of the chemically
   modified fibres or filaments to from 11% to 18% by weight.
   Viewed from yet another aspect, the present invention provides a chemically modified
 5 cellulosic fibre or filament having a moisture content of from 11% to 18% by weight
   obtained by the process as described above.
   Embodiments of the invention will now be illustrated by the following examples.
   Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are
   used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying
 0 the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding
   the presence of one or more other features, integers, steps or components.
   Example 1
   Comparison of the moisture content of fibres vs their tensile strengths once carded and
   needled was made by measuring the initial moisture content of dried modified cellulosic
 5 fibres produced using washes of varying alcohol content. That initial moisture content
   was then increased by conditioning the fibres in a moist atmosphere for 24 hours at a
   relative humidity of 55 to 60% and the tensile strength of the needled fabric measured
   again. Figure 1 shows the fibre moisture content vs tensile strength of carded needled
   fabric in the transverse (cross) direction before and after moisture conditioning to
20 increase the moisture content.
   The results show that the moisture content of the fibres influences the tensile strength
   of the resulting carded and needled web. The column headed IDA in the table of Figure
   1 refers to the percentage of IDA (industrial denatured alcohols) used in the wash liquor
   as part of the modification process. The columns headed % refers to the % moisture in
25 the fibre and N/cm to the tensile strength of the resulting carded needled web in the
   transverse direction. It can be seen from Figure 1 that decreasing the % of IDA in the
   wash liquor has a negative influence on tensile strength for carded and needled webs
   made from unconditioned fibres. It can also be seen that once the moisture content of

                                                 -8
   those fibres is raised to more than 11%, such as 12.5 to 14% moisture those tensile
   strength values of the carded needled web increase.
   Example 2
   Effect of moisture content on the tensile strength of silver containing wound dressings.
 5 Dressings were prepared by modification of solvent spun cellulose tow to a degree of
   substitution of 0.3 to form carboxymethylcellulose, neutralising to a pH of 5.5 with an
   organic acid. Adding 1.2% cationic silver by an ion exchange process in a largely
   organic solvent such as by the process described in Ep1343510, washing in an aqueous
   organic solution containing sodium chloride and di-sodium EDTA for light stabilisation
 0 and to entrain approximately 0.4% EDTA. Followed by washing in organic solvent wash
   containing fibre finishing agents including tween 20 and benzethonium chloride (to give
   0.135% wt/wt BeCl on the finished product) and subsequently warm air drying, cutting
   to staple and processing into a nonwoven felt by carding and a needle punching process.
   The dressings were cut to size from the web and packaged in a light, moisture and
 5 vapour impermeable heat sealed foil pouch.
   The dressings were removed from the packs and then subjected to various controlled
   environments.
   Controlled environments
           Ambient as packed, tested without any preconditioning
20         Zero humidity: Stored in a square desiccator with 3 perforated perspex shelves
           above a layer of silica gel desiccant, conditioned for a minimum of 5 days
           25'C/60%RH, for a minimum of 6 days
           30'C/65%RH, for a minimum of 6 days
           40'C/75%RH, for a minimum of 6 days
25 Samples (ambient as packed) were tested immediately after opening the packs.
   Samples removed from the other environments were sealed into plastic bags during
   removal, and then tested immediately. The plastic bags (also preconditioned in
   corresponding controlled environments) were used to maintain the humidity of the
   environment of the samples until the point of testing.

                                            -9
  Loss on Drying (LOD)
  LOD of the samples was determined using the Ohaus moisture balance MB23 operated
  in accordance with the instruction manual. A sample mass of greater than 1 gram was
  used. Samples were cut to fit within the weighing pan, ensuring there was adequate
5 clearance from the heating element. A standardised method was used with a maximum
  temperature limit of 110'C. The endpoint was determined automatically when the
  sample mass stopped reducing and was stable. Under these conditions the fabric did
  not char. Typically, samples would be subjected to a 10 minute cycle.
  Fabric Thickness (Loft)
0 Samples were tested using the Hampden Soft Materials Thickness Gauge, Model FMTml
  4D, S/N 14082. Fabric thickness (sometimes referred to as loft) was determined for 6
  dressings per batch.
  Fabric Dry Tensile Strength
  2.5cm x 7.5cm rectangular strips were cut from along the length (machine direction)
5 and across the width (transverse direction) using a ribbon cutting die and press.
  Samples were conditioned as described Table 1. The peak force and the extension at
  which that force occurred were recorded when a 50mm test length was stretched at a
  constant separation rate of 100mm per minute.

                                                - 10
   Results
   Table 1
    Relationship between absolute and relative humidity
    Conditioning    Dry      Ambient     25'C/60%RH        30'C/65%RH     40'C/75%RH
    Moisture        0.00     9.50        13.81             19.71          38.29
    (g/m 3)
    Thickness       0.170    0.190       0.198             0.183          0.202
    (mm)
    LOD%            9.28     11.93       14.17             15.27          18.10
    Tensile         3.10     5.19        5.80              5.36           7.75
   Machine
   (N/cm)
   Tensile          5.15     6.53        11.12             10.23          14.28
   Transverse
   (N/Cm)
    GSM (g/m2)      91       102         105               98             108
   Loss on drying is the summation of all the volatile substances that can be removed by
 5 heating at 110'C. These include ethanol, water and to some degree acetic acid.
   For this particular fibre, for this example, textile trials have shown that fibres for use in
   wound dressings according to the invention can be successfully textiled between 42%
   and 50% RH at around 18 to 20'C. Trials suggest that fibres with 10.5% to 11.5% w/w
   moisture content can be carded efficiently.
10 The results show that tensile strength, loft and LOD are all functions of equilibrium
   moisture content. The results suggest that fibres with a moisture content of greater
   than 9% will be able to be textiled to produce dressings suitable for use in the present
   invention.

                                               - 11
   Example 3
   Materials
   Two gelling fibre types were used in this study; cellulose ethylsulphonate (CES) and
   carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC).
 5 Table 1 Summary of gelling fibres used
    Gelling Fibre
    CES fibre tow
    CMC fibre tow
   Methods
   Single fibres were mounted onto card windows as described in BS EN 5079:1996.
   In addition, tow bundles were prepared to assess the moisture content.
   Fibres were oven dried at 105'C for one hour prior to being conditioned at the chosen
 0 relative humidity for a minimum of 16 hours. The mass of the oven dried tow bundles
   (W1) and the conditioned tow bundles (W2) was taken to assess the moisture content
   of the fibres, using Equation 1.
   Equation 1:     Moisture Content (%) = W2-Wlx100
                                             W2
   Single fibre tensile strength of the conditioned samples was undertaken using the
 5 method described in BS EN 5079:1996.
   Fibres were tested at 45% RH, 65% RH, and 85% RH.
   Results
   Results found that a significantly higher (Ps0.05) tensile strength was seen in the
   samples conditioned at 65% RH than those conditioned at 45% RH and 85% RH as
20 shown in Table 2.

                                      - 12
Table 2 Summary of results
Relative Humidity of Atmosphere (%)
Ambient                                    45    65   85
        Moisture Content in fibre (%)
        w/w                                9     15   22
        Mean Fibre Breaking Strength
 CES    (cN)                               4.85  6.16 3.79
        Standard Deviation (cN)            1.08  3.61 1.21
        T-Test against 65% RH data P
        value                              0.016 N/A  0.000
        Moisture Content in fibre (%)      12    15   21
        Mean Fibre Breaking Strength
                                           6.04  8.24 4.16
 CMC    (cN)
        Standard Deviation (cN)            2.65  6.06 1.55
        T-Test against 65% RH data P
        value                              0.029 N/A  0.000

                                               - 13
    The claims defining the invention as follows:
           1.      A chemically modified cellulosic web of needled fibres having a tensile
   strength of at least 3N per cm measured in the cross direction obtained by processing
   cellulosic fibres into chemically modified cellulosic fibres having a moisture content of
 5 from 11% to 18% by weight, wherein the cellulosic fibres are chemically modified prior
   to being needled to form the chemically modified cellulosic web of needled fibres.
           2.      A chemically modified cellulosic web of needled fibres as claimed in claim
   1 having a moisture content of from 12% to 15% by weight.
           3.      A chemically modified cellulosic web of needled fibres as claimed in claim
 0 1 having a moisture content of 15% by weight.
           4.      A chemically modified cellulosic web of needled fibres as claimed in any
   one of the preceding claims wherein the chemically modified cellulosic fibres are
   obtained from a chemical modification process comprising a final wash step that uses a
   wash composition comprising less than 99% by weight of a water-miscible organic
 5 solvent.
           5.      A chemically modified cellulosic web of needled fibres as claimed in any
   one of the preceding claims having a tensile strength of 3N/cm to 25N/cm.
           6.      A chemically modified cellulosic web of needled fibres as claimed in claim
   5 having a basis weight of between 80 and 120 gsm.
20         7.      A chemically modified cellulosic web of needled fibres as claimed in claim
   5 or 6 having a tensile strength of from 7N/cm to 25N/cm.
           8.      A chemically modified cellulosic web of needled fibres as claimed in any
   one of claims 5 to 7 having a tensile strength of from 1ON/cm to 25N/cm.
           9.      A process for producing a non-woven web of chemically modified
25 cellulosic fibres, the process comprising the steps of:
                   (i)     obtaining chemically modified cellulosic fibres with a moisture
   content of from 11% to 18% by weight, wherein the chemically modified cellulosic
   fibres are obtained from a chemical modification process wherein the chemically

                                                - 14
   modified cellulosic fibres are subjected to a final wash with a composition comprising
   less than 99% by weight of an organic solvent; and
                   (ii)   carding and needling the chemically modified cellulosic fibres to
   make the non-woven web of chemically modified cellulosic fibres.
 5         10.     A process as claimed in claim 9 wherein the composition comprises less
   than 95% by weight of a water-miscible organic solvent.
           11.     A process as claimed in claim 9 or 10 wherein the chemically modified
   cellulosic fibres are obtained by conditioning the chemically modified cellulosic fibres in
   air having a relative humidity of at least 40% to increase the moisture content of the
 0 chemically modified cellulosic fibres to least 12%.
           12.     A process as claimed in claim 11 wherein the relative humidity is from
   45% to 85%.
           13.     A process as claimed in claim 11 or 12 wherein the relative humidity is
   from 50% to 65%.
 5         14.     A process as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 13 wherein the chemically
   modified cellulosic fibres have a moisture content of from 11.5% to 15% by weight.
           15.     A process as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 14 wherein the chemically
   modified cellulosic fibres have a moisture content of from 12% to 15% by weight.
           16.     A process as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 15 wherein the chemically
20 modified cellulosic fibres have a moisture content of 14% to 15% by weight.
           17.     A process for producing a chemically modified cellulosic fibre or filament
   having a moisture content of from 11% to 18% by weight, the process comprising the
   steps of:
                   (i)    obtaining cellulosic fibres or filaments and chemically modifying
25 the cellulosic fibres or filaments by substitution to increase its absorbency;
                   (ii)   washing the chemically modified fibres or filaments with a final
   wash composition comprising water and less than 99% by weight of water-miscible
   organic solvent; and

                                                - 15
                   (iii)  drying the chemically modified fibres or filaments in a controlled
   atmosphere to a moisture content of from 11% to 18% by weight.
           18.    A process as claimed in claim 17 wherein the final wash composition
   comprises less than 95% by weight of an organic solvent.
 5         19.    A process as claimed in claim 17 or 18 wherein the process comprises the
   additional step of needling the chemically modified fibres or filaments into a web to
   form a wound dressing.
           20.    A process as claimed in claim 19 wherein the process comprises the
   additional step of sealing and sterilising the wound dressing in a pouch that maintains
 0 the wound dressing in a sterile and controlled environment.
           21.    A process as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 20 wherein the chemically
   modified fibres or filaments have a moisture content of from 11.5% to 15% by weight.
           22.    A process as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 21 wherein the chemically
   modified fibres or filaments have a moisture content from 12% to 15% by weight.
 5         23.    A process as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 22 wherein the chemically
   modified fibres or filaments have a moisture content of 14% to 15% by weight.
           24.    A chemically modified cellulosic fibre or filament having a moisture
   content of from 11% to 18% by weight obtained by a process comprising the steps of:
                   (i)    obtaining cellulosic fibres or filaments and chemically modifying
20 the cellulosic fibres or filaments by substitution to increase its absorbency;
                   (ii)   washing the chemically modified fibres or filaments after step (i)
   in a final wash mixture comprising water and less than 99% by weight of water-miscible
   organic solvent; and
                   (iii)  drying the chemically modified fibres or filaments to a moisture
25 content of from 11% to 18% by weight.
           25.    A process as claimed in claim 24 wherein the final wash mixture
   comprises less than 95% by weight of an organic solvent.

                                                - 16
           26.    A process as claimed in claim 24 or 25 wherein the process comprises the
   additional step of carding and needling the chemically modified fibres or filaments to
   form a wound dressing.
           27.    A process as claimed in claim 26 wherein the process comprises the
 5 additional step of sealing and sterilising the wound dressing in a pouch that maintains
   the moisture content of the wound dressing in a sterile environment.
           28.    A process as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 27 wherein the chemically
   modified fibres or filaments have a moisture content of from 11.5% to 15% by weight.
           29.    A process as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 28 wherein the chemically
 0 modified fibres or filaments have a moisture content of from 12% to 15% by weight.
           30.    A process as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 29 wherein the chemically
   modified fibres or filaments have a moisture content of 14% to 15% by weight.
           31.    A process for producing a chemically modified cellulosic fibre or filament
   having a moisture content of from 11% to 18% by weight, the process comprising the
 5 steps of:
                   (i)    obtaining cellulosic fibres or filaments and chemically modifying
   the cellulosic fibres or filaments by substitution to increase its absorbency;
                   (ii)   washing the chemically modified fibres or filaments with a final
   wash composition comprising less than 99% by weight of an organic solvent; and
20                 (iii)  conditioning the chemically modified fibres or filaments in an
   atmosphere having a relative humidity of at least 40% to increase the moisture content
   of the chemically modified fibres or filaments to from 11% to 18% by weight.
           32.    A process as claimed in claim 31 wherein the final wash composition
   comprises less than 95% by weight of an organic solvent.
25         33.    A process as claimed in claim 31 or 32 wherein the conditioning is in air
   having a relative humidity of 45% to 85%.
           34.    A process as claimed in any one of claims 31 to 33 wherein the relative
   humidity is from 50% to 65%.

                                               - 17
         35.     A process as claimed in any one of claims 31 to 34 wherein the chemically
  modified fibres or filaments have a moisture content of from 11.5% to 15% by weight.
         36.     A process as claimed in any one of claims 31 to 35 wherein the chemically
  modified fibres or filaments have a moisture content of from 12% to 15% by weight.
5        37.     A process as claimed in any one of claims 31 to 36 wherein the chemically
  modified fibres or filaments have a moisture content of 14% to 15% by weight.
         38.     A process as claimed in any one of claims 31 to 37 wherein the process
  comprises the additional step of carding and needling the chemically modified fibres or
  filaments to form a wound dressing.
0        39.     A process as claimed in claim 38 wherein the process comprises the
  additional step of sealing and sterilising the wound dressing in a pouch that maintains
  the moisture content of the wound dressing in a sterile environment.
         40.     A chemically modified cellulosic fibre or filament having a moisture
  content of from 11% to 18% by weight obtained by the process as claimed in any one of
5 claims 31 to 39.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/1

