                                     - 26
                                  Abstract
   A corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member comprising:
          (i)    an elongate core member defining a longitudinal axis;
          (ii)   a longitudinally extending outer wall connected to and
          extending
 5               around said elongate core; and
           (iii)  a void between the elongate core and the outer wall that is
                                          in fluid
                   communication with the outside of the reinforcement
                                          member;
      wherein the surface area defined by the portions of the elongate core
      and the outer wall that define the void is adapted to contact concrete
      and assist in
10    mechanical bonding of the reinforcing member to said concrete.

                                                         -1
                                  Corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member
            Field of the Invention
            The present invention relates generally to a corrosion resistant concrete
            reinforcing member. The present invention also relates to the use of a corrosion
            resistant concrete reinforcing member for strengthening concrete and to a system
            employing a corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member.
            Background to the Invention
            Concrete and other masonry or cementitious materials have high compressive
            strength, but relatively low tensile strength.      When concrete is employed as a
            structural member it is common to employ reinforcing members to enhance the
            tensile strength of the final structure. Reinforcing members are most commonly
            made of steel or other metal reinforcing rods or bars, i.e., "rebar".
           Although steel and other metal reinforcement can enhance the tensile strength of
            a concrete structure, they are susceptible to oxidation/corrosion. This oxidation
            can be increased by exposure to a strong acid, or otherwise lowering the pH of
            concrete. In addition, chlorine, from salt can permeate into concrete and cause
            corrosion.           When the metal reinforcement corrodes, it can expand and create
            internal stresses in the concrete which can in turn lead to cracking and
            disintegration of the concrete.             Once the structure of the concrete is
            compromised this further exposes the reinforcement material to corrosive
            compounds.
            Corrosion resistant reinforcement members including polymer coated rod/rebar
            have been developed but fail to offer a simple, inexpensive and effective option
            to the traditional metal reinforcement solutions.
            With the above in mind there is a need for improved reinforcing that does not
            suffer from one or more of the problems associated with existing solutions.
9840242_1(GHMatters) P99340.AU.1

                                        -2
Summary of the Invention
The present invention provides a corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member
comprising:
    (i)   an elongate core member defining a longitudinal axis;
   (ii)   a longitudinally extending outer wall connected to and extending
          around said elongate core; and
    (iii) a void between the elongate core and the outer wall that is in fluid
          communication with the outside of the reinforcement member;
wherein the surface area defined by the portions of the elongate core and the
outer wall that define the void is adapted to contact concrete and assist in
mechanical bonding of the reinforcing member to said concrete.
The present invention also provides a concrete reinforcing member comprising:
    (i)   an elongate core member defining a longitudinal axis;
    (ii)  a plurality of longitudinally extending outer walls connected to and
          extending around said elongate core; and
    (iii) a void between the elongate core and each outer wall that is in fluid
          communication with the outside of the reinforcement member;
wherein the surface area defined by the portions of the elongate core and the
outer walls that define the void is adapted to contact concrete and assist in
bonding of the reinforcing member into said concrete.
A corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member of the present invention may
be provided with its various components integrally provided i.e. as a one piece
moulded unit.
In another aspect, the present invention provides a building reinforcement system
comprising a corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member of the invention.

                                        -3
In still another aspect, the present invention provides for the use of a corrosion
resistant concrete reinforcing member for strengthening concrete.
Brief Description of Drawings
Figures 1 and 2 are isometric and cross-sectional views of a first embodiment of
the concrete reinforcing member of the invention;
Figures 3 and 4 are isometric and cross-sectional views of a second embodiment
of the concrete reinforcing member of the invention;
Figures 5 and 6 are isometric and cross-sectional views of a third embodiment of
the concrete reinforcing member the invention;
 Figures 7 and 8 are isometric and cross-sectional views of a fourth embodiment
of the concrete reinforcing member the invention;
Figures 9 and 10 are isometric and cross-sectional views of a fifth embodiment of
the concrete reinforcing member of the invention;
Figures 11 and 12 are isometric and cross-sectional views of a sixth embodiment
of the concrete reinforcing member of the invention;
Figures 13 and 14 are isometric and cross-sectional views of a seventh
embodiment of the concrete reinforcing member of the invention;
Figures 15 and 16 are isometric and cross-sectional views of an eighth
embodiment of the concrete reinforcing member of the invention;
 Figures 17 and 18 are isometric and cross-sectional views of a ninth embodiment
of the concrete reinforcing member of the invention;
Figures 19 and 20 are isometric and cross-sectional views of a tenth embodiment
of the concrete reinforcing member of the invention incorporating lip members;
Figures 21 and 22 are isometric and cross-sectional views of an eleventh
embodiment of the concrete reinforcing member of the invention incorporating lip
members;
Figures 23 and 24 are isometric and cross-sectional views of a twelfth
embodiment of the concrete reinforcing member of the invention incorporating lip
members;
Figures 25 and 26 are isometric and cross-sectional views of a thirteenth

                                         -4
embodiment of the concrete reinforcing member of the invention incorporating lip
members;
Figures 27 and 28 are isometric and cross-sectional views of a fourteenth
embodiment of the concrete reinforcing member of the invention;
Figures 29 and 30 are a side cross sectional and perspective view showing a
concrete reinforcing member according to the third embodiment of the invention
in situ as it may be used in a concrete wall; and
Figures 31 and 32 are a top cross sectional and perspective view showing a
concrete reinforcing member according to the third embodiment of the invention
in situ as it may be used in a concrete pylon, column or beam.
Detailed Description of the Invention
According to one embodiment, the present invention provides a corrosion
resistant concrete reinforcing member comprising:
     (i)    an elongate core member defining a longitudinal axis;
    (ii)    a longitudinally extending outer wall connected to and extending
            around said elongate core; and
     (iii)  a void between the elongate core and the outer wall that is in fluid
            communication with the outside of the reinforcement member;
    wherein the surface area defined by the portions of the elongate core and the
    outer wall that define the void is adapted to contact concrete and assist in
    mechanical bonding of the reinforcing member to said concrete.
The corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member may comprise a metal or
alloy that is resistant to corrosion or a non-metallic material. Corrosion resistant
metals and alloys include those comprising stainless steel, carbon steel, cast
iron, bronze, nickel and/or chromium alloys such as durimet, monel and hasteloy,
titanium and cobalt.
A preferred non-metallic material is a thermoplastic polymer. Thermoplastic

                                          -5
polymers, as used herein, includes plastics which irreversibly solidify or "set"
when completely cured. Preferably, the corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing
member comprises a thermoplastic polymer selected from the group consisting of
polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene and polypropylene,            unsaturated polyester,
phenolics,         vinyl      esters,        polyvinylacetate,      styrene-butadiene,
polymethylmethacrylate,       polystyrene,    cellulose   acetatebutyrate,    saturated
polyesters, urethane-extended saturated polyesters, methacrylate copolymers,
polyethylene terephthalate and mixtures and blends thereof.
The corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member may further comprise one or
more additional components selected from the list comprising: reinforcing fillers,
particulate fillers, selective reinforcements, thickeners, initiators, mould release
agents, catalysts, pigments, flame retardants, and the like, in amounts commonly
known to those skilled in the art. Any initiator may be a high or a low temperature
polymerization initiator, or in certain applications, both may be employed.
Catalysts    are    typically  required    in   resin   compositions    thickened   with
polyurethane. The catalyst promotes the polymerization of NCO groups with OH
groups. Suitable catalysts include dibutyl tin dilaurate and stannous octoate.
Preferably, the reinforcing member comprises a fibre reinforced polymer (FRP).
When the reinforcing member includes an additional component it may be a
reinforcing fibre material selected from the group comprising aramid, glass,
carbon, basalt, metal, high modulus organic fibres (e.g., aromatic polyamides,
polybenzimidazoles, and aromatic polyimides), other organic fibres                (e.g.,
polyethylene, liquid crystal and nylon). Blends and hybrids of the various fibres
can also be used. In this regard, the mechanical and thermal properties of the
FRP depend on the amount and orientation of the fibres as well as the properties
of the polymer matrix. As used herein, "concrete" is used in the usual sense of
meaning a mixture of a particulate filler such as gravel, pebbles, sand, stone,
slag or cinders in either mortar or cement. Exemplary cements include hydraulic
cements such as Portland cement, aluminous cement, and the like. The cement

                                          -6
 or concrete may contain other ingredients such as, for example, a plastic latex,
 hydration aids, curatives, and the like.
The elongate core member can be solid or hollow. When the elongate core is
hollow it may be hollow along its entire length or for only a part thereof. In this
regard, a hollow core member allows for a lighter weight reinforcing member that
has a greater circumference to cross-sectional area ratio, which allows for
greater chemical bonding of the surface to the concrete. A hollow reinforcing
member can also be more readily manipulated to allow for surface irregularities,
such as indents or protrusions for improved mechanical interlocking into the
concrete. When the elongate core member is hollow, the hollow core can serve
as a conduit for other components such as wiring, monitoring instruments, other
conduits and/or fluid.
The inner and outer surfaces of the elongate core member may be modified to
further enhance bonding of the reinforcing member in concrete. In this regard,
any modification that seeks to increase the surface area of the elongate core
member for contact with concrete is likely to enhance bonding.     Such
modifications include indents, protrusions, scoring, channels and the like.
The inner and/or outer surfaces of the elongate core member may also be
modified by the addition of a lining or coating of another material, such as a
ceramic or silica that will further improve bonding between the reinforcing
member and the concrete polymer. The liner or coating may also be formed of a
plastic/polymer with different properties from the primary material used in the
construction of the reinforcing member, that may alter the modulus of elasticity or
another structural property or performance characteristic of the reinforcing
member, as required.
Any modifications that create areas of increased cross section can also improve
mechanical bonding with the concrete.            Cross section variations can be
accomplished by a range of methods including overmoulding or by employing a

                                        -7
die of variable diameter in the extrusion, pultrusion or pushtrusion process.      In
this regard, by periodically increasing the diameter of the die, areas of increased
diameter can be formed.       Offset portions on the surface of the elongate core
member can also increase mechanical bonding with the concrete as well as
providing raised surface features (protrusions) or recesses (indents).
When the elongate core is hollow it can also be filled with a material to achieve
particular desired product characteristics such as thermoplastic polymer. In this
regard, the hollow may be filled only at preselected portions of its length in order
to provide localized strengthening without unduly increasing weight. Such filler
material can provide increased shear strength at the centre of the length of the
reinforcing member, and in sections that experience the greatest shear stresses.
The elongate core member can have a range of cross sectional shapes.
Preferably, elongate core member has a round, oval or polygonal cross section.
The cross sectional shape of the elongate core member may also be semi
circular ("half-moon") or semi oval and thus include a substantially flat outer face.
When the cross sectional shape is polygonal it may be triangular, square or
rectangular.    When the elongate core member is provided integrally with the
outer wall its cross sectional shape is less well defined.      Embodiments of the
present invention including a "one piece" or integral elongate core member and
outer wall, and optionally a flange member, are described in more detail later
herein.
The elongate core member can have a range of cross sectional sizes.
Preferably, elongate core member has an internal diameter or width of at least 3,
4, 5, 6, 7.5 or 8cm but other dimensions are possible depending on the required
performance of the end product.
The longitudinally extending outer wall can be directly or indirectly connected with
the elongate core member. When the outer wall is indirectly connected to the
elongate core member it may be connected via a flange member that extends

                                           -8
 from and along the longitudinal axis of the elongate core member.
Preferably, there is a plurality of outer walls. Thus, the present invention also
provides a concrete reinforcing member comprising:
       (i)     an elongate core member defining a longitudinal axis;
        (ii)   a plurality of longitudinally extending outer walls connected to and
               extending around said elongate core; and
       (iii)   a void between the elongate core and each outer wall that is in fluid
               communication with the outside of the reinforcement member;
       wherein the surface area defined by the portions of the elongate core and
        the outer walls that define the void is adapted to contact concrete and
        assist in bonding of the reinforcing member into said concrete.
When there are multiple outer walls there may be multiple flange members
connecting each outer wall to the elongate core member.
The flange member may be varied and includes a rib member.                The flange
member may be of various profiles, shapes and sizes selected to suit the
particular use requirements.
At least one of the surfaces of the flange member may have a non-planar surface
portion for improving concrete adhesion thereto. In addition, certain parts of the
flange member may be thicker than the other portions. Typically, each flange
member has a constant cross section.          In addition, the surfaces of the flange
member may be modified to further enhance bonding of the reinforcing member
in concrete. In this regard, any modification that seeks to increase the surface
area of the flange member for contact with concrete is likely to enhance bonding.
Such modifications include indents, protrusions, scoring, channels and the like.
Preferably, each flange member has a cross sectional dimension about the same

                                        -9
 (or greater than the elongate core member.
When there is a plurality of outer walls there is preferably, two, three, or four
longitudinally extending outer walls connected to elongate core member. Even
more preferably, the plurality of outer walls are equidistantly spaced around the
elongate core member.
The inner and outer surfaces of the outer walls may be modified to further
enhance bonding of the reinforcing member in concrete.          In this regard, any
modification that seeks to increase the surface area of the outer walls for contact
with concrete is likely to enhance bonding. Such modifications include indents,
protrusions, scoring, channels and the like and are described further elsewhere
herein.
The outer wall can have a range of cross sectional shapes. The outer wall may
be angular or curved. Preferably, the outer wall has a V, L, triangular or convex
cross section. It will be appreciated that the outer walls also dictate the outer
cross sectional shape of the concrete reinforcing member. Preferably, the outer
cross sectional shape is generally circular, oval or polygonal, such as triangular,
square or rectangular.        The outer cross-sectional shape of the concrete
reinforcing member may be varied but it is preferable that it has a constant cross
sectional shape along its length.
The outer wall can have a range of sizes depending on the use requirements and
how many outer walls are employed.
The void defines a space for receiving concrete and thus acts to assist in
mechanical bonding of the reinforcing member to said concrete. In this regard,
the void increases the surface area for bonding per unit of cross sectional area
and/or per unit of volume of the reinforcing member. Preferably, the inclusion of
the void increases the surface area for bonding per 1cm of length of the
reinforcing member by at least 1.25x, 1.5x, 1.75x or 2x relative to a reinforcing

                                        -10
 member with the same general cross sectional profile but without the void.
The void between the elongate core and the outer wall that is in fluid
communication with the outside of the reinforcement member may have a range
of shapes and sizes depending on the shape and configuration of the elongate
core member, outer walls and flange member, when present.           Preferably, the
edge of the outer wall adjacent to the opening to the void includes a projection or
lip that further enhances the mechanical bonding between the reinforcing
member and the concrete. The size of the opening to the void may be varied
depending on the size of the aggregate in the concrete. Preferably, the opening
is large enough to allow the passage of aggregate of a width of at least 2.5 or
3.5cm.
Preferably, the corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member is moulded as a
one piece unit and thus can include any one or more of the features described
above provided integrally. Thus, the present invention also provides a corrosion
resistant concrete reinforcing member comprising the following components,
integrally provided:
     (i)   an elongate core member defining a longitudinal axis;
     (ii)  a longitudinally extending outer wall connected to and extending
           around said elongate core; and
    (iii)  a void between the elongate core and the outer wall that is in fluid
           communication with the outside of the reinforcement member;
     wherein the surface area defined by the portions of the elongate core and the
     outer wall that define the void is adapted to contact concrete and assist in
     bonding of the reinforcing member into said concrete.
When the corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member is moulded as a one
piece unit it can have a variety of outer and inner cross sectional shapes. The

                                        - 11
outer cross sectional shapes include those described above.           With respect to
inner cross sectional shapes they include generally "cross" or "X" shaped where
the centre of the X represents the elongate core member and the arms or legs of
the X represent the flange members connecting the elongate core member to the
outer walls.
Manufacture
The reinforcing member of the present invention can be produced using a range
of techniques including extrusion, pultrusion, pushtrusion.      Different techniques
may be used to manufacture different components of the reinforcing member and
then the components can be assembled by the use of suitable bonding agent.
For example, the elongate core may be manufactured using a filament winding
technique and the longitudinally extending outer wall may be formed by
extrusion, pultrusion or pushtrusion. Alternatively, the reinforcing member may
be manufactured as a single piece from a single manufacturing process such as
extrusion, pultrusion or pushtrusion.
Other components
The reinforcing member of the invention is used in much the same manner as
conventional reinforcement members/bars are used.          The reinforcing members
can be assembled into place, forming a skeleton or framework over which the
concrete structure is formed.    Individual reinforcing member can be connected
together in a variety of ways, including ties, clamps, welds, brackets, snap-on
bridges, strips, hooks or other connectors, glues, and the like, to hold them in
place until the concrete is poured and hardens.       In preferred embodiments, the
concrete is poured over the skeleton or framework and permitted to harden.
Thus, in another embodiment the present invention provides a system comprising
a reinforcement member of the present invention and at least on other
component selected from the list comprising: a support member such as a chair,

                                          -12
a brace, an end cap, a tie member and a base member.
General
Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention described herein is
susceptible to variations       and modifications other than those specifically
described.      The invention includes all such variation and modifications.     The
invention also includes all of the steps and features referred to or indicated in the
specification, individually or collectively and any and all combinations or any two
or more of the steps or features.
 Each document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is
expressly incorporated herein in their entirety by reference, which means that it
should be read and considered by the reader as part of this text.            That the
document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is not repeated
 in this text is merely for reasons of conciseness. None of the cited material or the
 information contained in that material should, however be understood to be
common general knowledge.
The present invention is not to be limited in scope by any of the specific
embodiments described herein.           These embodiments are intended for the
purpose of exemplification only. Functionally equivalent products and methods
are clearly within the scope of the invention as described herein.
The invention described herein may include one or more range of values (e.g.
size etc). A range of values will be understood to include all values within the
range, including the values defining the range, and values adjacent to the range
which lead to the same or substantially the same outcome as the values
immediately adjacent to that value which defines the boundary to the range.
Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood

                                          -13
to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion
of any other integer or group of integers.
Other definitions for selected terms used herein may be found within the detailed
description of the invention and apply throughout. Unless otherwise defined, all
technical terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood to
one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention belongs.
Description of the Preferred Embodiments
The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference
to the accompanying drawings, in which preferred embodiments of the invention
are shown. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms
and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein;
rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough
and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in
the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.
 Figures 1 and 2 illustrate a first embodiment of the invention where the concrete
reinforcing member, generally indicated by the numeral 10 has a generally
square outer cross section and includes a hollow elongate core 12 with a
generally square cross section. Four longitudinally extending outer walls 14 have
a generally triangular cross section and hence each define outer wall faces 14a
and 14b. Each outer wall 14 is connected to, equidistantly spaced and extending
around the elongate core 12.         The outer wall faces 14a and 14b define an
angular outer surface and are indirectly connected to the elongate core 12 via
flange members in the form of rib members 16 that extend from and along a
longitudinal surface of the elongate core 12 and have width that is less than the
width of said longitudinal surface. The elongate core 12 and the outer walls 14
together define voids 18 that are in fluid communication with the outside of the
reinforcement member via openings 20. In use, the surface area defined by the

                                       -14
outer walls 14, the rib members 16 and the elongate core 12 aid in "bonding" of
the concrete reinforcing member into concrete.
Figures 3 and 4 illustrate a second embodiment of the invention where the
concrete reinforcing member, generally indicated by the numeral 10 has a
generally square outer cross section and includes a hollow elongate core 12 with
a generally square cross section, that is smaller in terms of cross sectional area
than the first embodiment. Four longitudinally extending outer walls 14 have a
generally triangular cross section and hence each define outer wall faces 14a
and 14b. As in the first embodiment, the outer wall faces 14a and 14b define an
angular outer surface and are indirectly connected to the elongate core 12 via
flange members in the form of rib members 16 that extend from and along a
longitudinal surface of the elongate core 12 and have width that is less than the
width of said longitudinal surface. The elongate core 12 and the outer walls 14
together define voids 18 that are in fluid communication with the outside of the
reinforcement member via openings 20.
Figures 5 and 6 illustrate a third embodiment of the invention where the concrete
reinforcing member, generally indicated by the numeral 10 has a generally
circular outer cross section and includes a hollow elongate core 12 that has a
generally circular cross section and four longitudinally extending outer walls 14
connected to, equidistantly spaced and extending around the elongate core 12.
The outer walls 14 have an arcuate cross section defining a convex outer surface
and are indirectly connected to the elongate core 12 via flange members in the
form of rib members 16 that extend from and along the longitudinal axis of the
elongate core 12. The elongate core 12 and the outer walls 14 together define
voids 18 that are in fluid communication with the outside of the reinforcement
member via openings 20.
Concrete reinforcing members according to the third embodiment formed from
glass fibre reinforced polymer (and in 4x1 m lengths) were supported at both ends

                                       -15
and load tested and demonstrated to have a load capacity of between 6.25kN
11.6kN with a minimal average displacement of 4mm.
Figures 7 and 8 illustrate a fourth embodiment of the invention where the
concrete reinforcing member, generally indicated by the numeral 10 has a
generally square outer cross section and includes a hollow elongate core 12 with
a generally square cross section and four longitudinally extending outer walls 14
connected to, equidistantly spaced and extending around the elongate core 12.
Each outer wall 14 has an "L" shaped cross section, defining two angular outer
wall faces 14a and 14b and are indirectly connected to the elongate core 12 via
flange members in the form of rib members 16 that extend from the corners of
and along the longitudinal axis of the elongate core 12. The elongate core 12
and the outer walls 14 together define voids 18 that are in fluid communication
with the outside of the reinforcement member via openings 20.
Figures 9 and 10 illustrate a fifth embodiment of the invention where the concrete
reinforcing member, generally indicated by the numeral 10 has a generally
square outer cross section and includes a hollow elongate core 12 with a
generally circular cross section and four longitudinally extending outer walls 14
connected to, equidistantly spaced and extending around the elongate core 12.
Each outer wall 14 has an "L" shaped cross section, defining two angular outer
wall faces 14a and 14b and are indirectly connected to the elongate core 12 via
flange members in the form of rib members 16 that extend from the corners of
and along the longitudinal axis of the elongate core 12. The elongate core 12
and the outer walls 14 together define voids 18 that are in fluid communication
with the outside of the reinforcement member via openings 20.
Figures 11 and 12 illustrate a sixth embodiment of the invention where the
concrete reinforcing member, generally indicated by the numeral 10 has a
generally circular cross section and includes a hollow elongate core 12 with a
generally square cross section and four longitudinally extending outer walls 14
connected to, equidistantly spaced and extending around the elongate core 12.

                                       -16
The outer walls 14 have an arcuate cross section defining a convex outer surface
and are indirectly connected to the elongate core 12 via flange members in the
form of rib members 16 that extend from the corners of and along the longitudinal
axis of the elongate core 12.     The elongate core 12 and the outer walls 14
together define voids 18 that are in fluid communication with the outside of the
reinforcement member via openings 20.
Figures 13 and 14 illustrate a seventh embodiment of the invention where the
concrete reinforcing member, generally indicated by the numeral 10 has a
generally square outer cross section and includes a solid elongate core 12,
defined by the intersection of the flange members in the form of rib members 16
that form a generally X shaped cross section and extend out to indirectly connect
the elongate core 12 to the four longitudinally extending outer walls 14. The
outer walls 14 have an "L" shaped cross section , defining two angular outer wall
faces 14a and 14b and are indirectly connected to the elongate core 12 via
flange members in the form of rib members 16 that extend from the corners of
and along the longitudinal axis of the elongate core 12. The elongate core 12
and the outer walls 14 together define voids 18 that are in fluid communication
with the outside of the reinforcement member via openings 20.
Figures 15 and 16 illustrate a eighth embodiment of the invention where the
concrete reinforcing member, generally indicated by the numeral 10 has a
generally square outer cross section and, includes a hollow elongate core 12 with
a generally square cross section and four longitudinally extending outer walls 14,
equidistantly spaced and extending around the elongate core. The outer walls 14
are directly attached to the elongate core at its corner edges and define a flat
outer surface. The elongate core 12 and the outer walls 14 together define voids
18 that are in fluid communication with the outside of the reinforcement member
via openings 20.
Figures 17 and 18 illustrate a ninth embodiment of the invention where the
concrete reinforcing member, generally indicated by the numeral 10 and has a

                                       -17
generally circular outer cross section and includes a solid elongate core 12,
defined by the intersection of the flange members in the form of rib members 16
that form a generally X shaped cross section and extend out to indirectly connect
the elongate core 12 to the four longitudinally extending outer walls 14.      The
outer walls 14 have an arcuate shaped cross section defining a convex outer
surface. The elongate core 12 and the outer walls 14 together define voids 18
that are in fluid communication with the outside of the reinforcement member via
openings 20.
Figures 19 and 20 illustrate a tenth embodiment of the invention that is similar to
the third embodiment and corresponding numbering has been used. The tenth
embodiment includes outer walls 14 that further comprise lip members 22
provided at the edge of the outer walls 14 adjacent to the opening 20 to the void
18. The lip member 22 provide additional contact surfaces and also act to further
contain the concrete in the void 18 to further enhance the mechanical bonding
between the reinforcing member and the concrete.
Figures 21 and 22 illustrate an eleventh embodiment of the invention that is
similar to the sixth embodiment and corresponding numbering has been used.
The eleventh embodiment includes outer walls 14 that further comprise lip
members 22 provided at the edge of the outer walls 14 adjacent to the opening
20 to the void 18. The lip member 22 provide additional contact surfaces and
also act to further contain the concrete in the void 18 to further enhance the
mechanical bonding between the reinforcing member and the concrete.
Figures 23 and 24 illustrate a twelfth embodiment of the invention that is similar
to the ninth embodiment and corresponding numbering has been used.            The
twelfth embodiment includes outer walls 14 that further comprise lip members 22
provided at the edge of the outer walls 14 adjacent to the opening 20 to the void
18. The lip member 22 provide additional contact surfaces and also act to further
contain the concrete in the void 18 to further enhance the mechanical bonding
between the reinforcing member and the concrete.

                                       -18
Figures 25 and 26 illustrate a thirteenth embodiment of the invention where the
concrete reinforcing member, generally indicated by the numeral 10 has a
generally circular outer cross section and includes a solid elongate core 12
provided integrally with four longitudinally extending outer walls 14 that define a
convex outer wall surface. The core 12 and outer walls 14 are connected via
flange members 16. The elongate core 12, outer walls 14 and flange members
16 together define voids 18 that are in fluid communication with the outside of the
reinforcement member via openings 20. The outer walls 14 further comprise lip
members 22 provided at the edge of the outer walls 14 adjacent to the opening
20 to the void 18. The lip member 22 provide additional contact surfaces and
also act to further contain the concrete in the void 18 to further enhance the
mechanical bonding between the reinforcing member and the concrete. A variant
of the thirteenth embodiment is identical to that depicted in Figures 25 and 26 but
lacks the lip members 22.
Figures 27 and 28 illustrate a fourteenth embodiment of the invention where the
concrete reinforcing member, generally indicated by the numeral 10 has semi
circular ("half-moon") cross sectional shaped elongate core 12 that defines a
substantially flat outer face 13.      The concrete reinforcing member 10 is
essentially half of the concrete reinforcing member illustrated in Figures 5 and 6
and includes outer walls 14 have an arcuate cross section defining a convex
outer surface and are indirectly connected to the elongate core 12 via flange
members in the form of rib members 16 that extend from and along the
longitudinal axis of the elongate core 12. The elongate core 12 and the outer
walls 14 together define voids 18 that are in fluid communication with the outside
of the reinforcement member via openings 20.
Figures 29 and 30 illustrate a concrete wall element, generally indicated by the
numeral 100 including five of the concrete reinforcing member depicted in
Figures 5 and 6, 10A-10E.        The wall element 100 further comprises further
reinforcement in the form of four lengths of rebar 80A-80D. The rebar 80A-80D

                                         -19
can be attached to the reinforcing members 10A-10E using ties (not shown) or
any other suitable fixing means as described herein.
Figures 31 and 32 illustrate a concrete column element, generally indicated by
the numeral 200 including four of the concrete reinforcing member depicted in
Figures 5 and 6, 10A-10D. The column element 200 further comprises further
reinforcement in the form of rebar 80A and 80B positioned between and around
the concrete reinforcing members 10-10D. The rebar 80A-80B can be attached
to the reinforcing members 10A-10D using ties (not shown) or any other suitable
fixing means as described herein.
The foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as
limiting thereof. Although a few exemplary embodiments of this invention have
been described, those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many
modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially
departing    from   the novel     teachings and     advantages   of this   invention.
Accordingly, all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope
of this invention as defined in the claims. In the claims, means-plus-function
clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the
recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures.
Therefore, it is to be understood that the foregoing is illustrative of the present
invention and is not to be construed as limited to the specific embodiments
disclosed, and that modifications to the disclosed embodiments, as well as other
embodiments, are intended to be included within the scope of the appended
claims. Applications
The present invention is suitable for use in a range of applications and concrete
structures including industrial, farming, commercial, marine and residential
buildings.     Hollow core versions of the reinforcing member of the present
invention are generally lighter but when incorporated into a concrete structure
deliver equivalent or superior strength to structures using existing reinforcement
solutions. Applications and end uses that require reinforcement that is resistant

                                         - 20
to corrosion (e.g. marine applications) and/or frequent and severe temperature
fluctuations are particularly suitable for the application of the present invention.
It should also be appreciated that, depending on requirements, the present
invention can be used in conjunction with other reinforcing material such as
traditional rebar.
The reinforcing member of the present invention can be used in precast
structures or incorporated into structures that are cast in situ. Currently, hollow
core concrete structures are manufactured off-site requiring the pre-cast items to
be transported to site using heavy road trucks and the use of heavy lifting
machinery and/or cranes on-site to assemble the pre-cast items.            The current
system also requires a lot of space for heavy vehicles parking and cranes to
manoeuvre around buildings and surrounding neighbourhoods. For logistical and
safety reasons, it is therefore difficult to apply the current methods on building
sites where there is limited space, where the ground conditions are unstable e.g.
seismic active areas or where the area is in an environment that is sensitive to
damage or is otherwise protected.
The present invention is suitable for use in applications where the concrete
structure will be exposed to corrosive or otherwise harsh environments.
Examples include concrete structures such as seawalls, retaining walls, water
breaks, waterfront building structures and floating docks.            Other corrosive
environments are highly alkaline environments and/or environments where the
concrete structures are exposed to de-icing salts and other harsh, snowy
environments.
One specific application of the reinforcing member of the present invention is
where the invention is used to reinforce the concrete portion of steel framed
structures such as warehouses or sheds. In this application, the upper part of the
structure consists of metal sheet cladding and the lower half with precast
concrete walls including the reinforcing member of the present invention.

                                         - 21
With respect to residential building applications, the reinforcing members of the
present invention will be designed and used in a manner that meets applicable
building guidelines and standards.      However, it is expected that the use of the
present invention will be more economical, at least through cost savings
achieved through the use of concrete members including less concrete and
traditional steel reinforcing.    In this regard, the reinforcing members of the
present invention are designed to enable structures with equivalent performance,
in terms of strength etc, but with the use of less concrete and steel reinforcing.
One example of efficiencies gained from the present invention is the use of the
reinforcing members of the invention in precast panels that will render them
lighter but still strong enough to be used for both internal and external walls.
Other buildings such as carports, sheds and other outbuildings could also be
economically constructed using concrete reinforced with the reinforcing members
of the present invention.
This application is filed as a divisional application of application number
AU 2013 325 106, the contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

                                                            - 22
            CLAIMS
             1. A corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member comprising:
                  (i)            an elongate core member defining a longitudinal axis;
                  (ii)           a longitudinally extending outer wall connected to and extending
                                 around said elongate core; and
                  (iii)          a void between the elongate core and the outer wall that is in fluid
                                 communication with the outside of the reinforcement member;
                  wherein the surface area defined by the portions of the elongate core and the
                  outer wall that define the void is adapted to contact concrete and assist in
                  mechanical bonding of the reinforcing member to said concrete.
             2. A corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member according to claim 1
                     wherein the corrosion resistant material comprises a non-metallic material.
             3. A corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member according to claim 1
                     wherein the corrosion resistant material comprises a thermoplastic polymer.
             4. A corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member according to claim 3
                     wherein the thermoplastic polymer is fibre reinforced.
             5. A corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member according to claim 3 or 4
                     wherein the thermoplastic polymer comprises PVC.
             6. A corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member according to claim 1
                     wherein the elongate core member is hollow.
             7.      A corrosion resistant reinforcing member according to claim 6 wherein the
                     elongate core is hollow along its entire length.
             8.      A corrosion resistant reinforcing member according to claim 6 wherein the
                     elongate core is hollow along a part of its length.
9840242 1 (GHMatters)P99340.AU.1

                                                             -23
            9. A corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member according to claim 1
                  wherein the elongate core member is solid.
             10.A corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member according to claim 1
                  wherein the elongate core member has a round, oval or polygonal cross
                  section.
             11.A corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member according to claim 1
                  wherein the longitudinally extending outer wall is indirectly connected with the
                  elongate core member.
             12.A corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member according to claim 11
                  wherein the outer wall is indirectly connected to the elongate core member via
                  a flange member that extends from and along the longitudinal axis of the
                  elongate core member.
             13.A concrete reinforcing member comprising:
                  (i)           an elongate core member defining a longitudinal axis;
                  (ii)          a plurality of longitudinally extending outer walls connected to and
                                extending around said elongate core; and
                  (iii)         a void between the elongate core and each outer wall that is in fluid
                                communication with the outside of the reinforcement member;
                  wherein the surface area defined by the portions of the elongate core and the
                  outer walls that define the void is adapted to contact concrete and assist in
                  bonding of the reinforcing member into said concrete.
             14.A concrete reinforcing member according to claim 13 wherein there are four
                  outer walls.
9840242 1 (GHMatters)P99340.AU.1

                                                            - 24
             15. A concrete reinforcing member according to claim 13 or 14 wherein the
                     plurality of outer walls are equidistantly spaced around the elongate core
                     member.
             16. A concrete reinforcing member according to claim 1 or 13 wherein the outer 5
                     wall is angular.
             17. A concrete reinforcing member according to claim 1 or 13 wherein the outer
                     wall is convex.
             18. A concrete reinforcing member according to claim 1 or 13 wherein the edge of
                     the outer wall adjacent to the opening to the void includes a projection or lip.
             19. A corrosion resistant concrete reinforcing member comprising the following
                     components, integrally provided:
                  (i)           an elongate core member defining a longitudinal axis;
                  (ii)          a longitudinally extending outer wall connected to and extending
                                around said elongate core; and
                  (iii)         a void between the elongate core and the outer wall that is in fluid
                                communication with the outside of the reinforcement member;
                   wherein the surface area defined by the portions of the elongate core and the
                   outer wall that define the void is adapted to contact concrete and assist in
                   bonding of the reinforcing member into said concrete.
            20. A building reinforcement system comprising a corrosion resistant concrete
                     reinforcing member according to claim 1 or 13.
            21. A building reinforcement system according to claim 20 further comprising at
                     least one other component selected from the list comprising: a support
                     member such as a chair, a brace, an end cap, a tie member and a base
  25               member.
9840242 1 (GHMatters)P99340.AU.1

                                                        -25
            22. Use of a reinforcing member according to claim 1 or 13 or a system
                      according to claim 20 for strengthening concrete.
            23. A concrete building member comprising a concrete reinforcing member
                      according to claim 1 or 13.
9840242 1 (GHMatters) P99340.AU.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
0

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
