                                          ABSTRACT
An upper guide track assembly (10) for a horizontally opening retractable screen is
described. The guide track assembly (10) comprises a U shaped guide channel (11), an
elongate track attachment member (20) for attaching the guide track assembly to a support
that has a wall section defining an inner side wall (12) of the guide channel and an elongate
track outer member (40) connectable to the attachment member (20) that has a wall section
defining the outer side wall (14) of the guide channel (11) and an elongate screen retaining
member (80) within the guide channel (11).      The elongate screen retaining member (80)
comprises an elongate body (82) with a lower longitudinal channel (84) for receiving and
retaining an upper edge of a retractable screen. The screen retaining member (80) has two
opposed substantially resilient wings (86, 88) extending from either of the elongate body.
Each wing is biased towards a position in which the distal end of each wing is away from
the body. The wings are is moveable against the bias to a wing retracted position. When
the screen retaining member is retained in the guide channel (11), each wing is held in the
retracted position against the bias by contact with the side walls (12, 14) of the guide
channel (11).    This allows an upper edge of a retractable screen retained by the screen
retaining member (80) to be biased in the vertical direction.

00
        UPPER GUIDE TRACK AND ASSEMBLY FOR A RETRACTABLE SCREEN
FIELD
The present disclosure relates to an upper guide track assembly for a retractable screen of
the type having a flexible screen material that can be drawn off a roller within a housing and
across an architectural opening. The disclosure also relates to a method of assembly of
the guide track and a retractable screen including the upper guide track.
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
This application claims priority from Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
<removed-apn> filed 30 November 2016, Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
<removed-apn> filed 30 November 2016, and Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
<removed-apn> filed 30 November 2016, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated
herein by reference.
BACKGROUND
Retractable screens that can be opened have found appeal with users due to their versatility
in being able to be rolled away when not in use. This enables a wide and uninterrupted
view when withdrawn. The present disclosure will be described with particular reference to
an insect screen mesh. However, it will be appreciated that the disclosure may relate to
other types of flexible screen material and no limitation is intended thereby.
Retractable screens can be mounted across any suitable architectural opening such as
windows, doors, and between supports in outdoor areas such as pergolas, gazebos and
the like. Retractable screens are generally insect screens. However, other types of screens
such as solar screens, transparent vinyl screens or the like may also be retractable.
Retractable screens in general have a roller located within a housing, upon which the screen
is rolled onto as the screen is closed and the screen is unrolled from when the screen is
opened. The roller is usually biased towards the closed or rolled position. The housing is
typically fixed in place at the top of a vertically opening screen or at the side of a horizontally
opening screen. The screen extends between a housing and a moveable handle post or
drawbar that is moveable between and open position towards the housing and a closed
                                                   1

position away from the housing. Upper and lower, right or left guide tracks (for horizontally
and vertically opening windows) are operatively engaged with the respective ends of the
moveable handle post to guide movement of the post between open and closed positions.
Alternatively, the housing may be located within the moveable handle post, although this is
not as preferred for larger screens.
Horizontally opening screens can pose problems that are not found with vertically opening
screens. Customers are demanding horizontally opening screens of increasing width to
extend across open areas that are significantly wider than a standard doorway such as bi
fold doors and French doors. With increased width comes increased size and weight. The
design of the roller and guides must accommodate the increased weight. The upper guide
track, in particular, must both guide and bear the weight of the screen. The arrangements
and methods of mounting the upper guide track to a support must also be able to bear the
weight.
In contrast, with vertically opening screens, the roller is at the top and the guide tracks
simply guide the edges of the screen and do not support any weight.
Another difference between horizontally and vertically opening screens is the direction in
which tension is applied to the respective screens. It is desirable that the edges of the
screen are securely held in place and for the screens to have a taut and neat appearance
across the face of the screen. Vertically opening screens are tensioned between the vertical
guides, whereas horizontally opening screens are tensioned between the horizontal guides.
With vertically opening screens, the top guide track is often installed by fixing an attachment
member of the upper guide track assembly to the door lintel. When the lintel sags, the
upper guide track assembly that is fixed to the lintel will sag. When this occurs, there is a
loss of tension in the screen.
It will be appreciated that with a vertically opening screen where tension is applied
horizontally, any lintel sag will not affect tension in the screen.
The present disclosure is therefore directed towards providing a guide track assembly for
horizontally opening retractable screen that may in some embodiments resist a loss of
                                                 2

tension or otherwise at least partially compensate for a sag in a door lintel to which the
upper guide track assembly is fixed.
DEFINITION
In the present specification and claims the term "comprising " shall be understood to have
a broad meaning similar to the term "including" and will be understood to imply the inclusion
of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other
integer or step or group of integers or steps. This definition also applies to variations on the
term "comprising" such as "comprise" and "comprises".
SUMMARY
According to one aspect of the disclosure, there is provided an upper guide track assembly
for a horizontally opening retractable screen that in use is attached to a support and has an
inner side facing towards the support and an outer side facing outwards away from the
support; the upper guide track assembly comprising;
        a substantially U shaped guide channel having an inner side wall, an outer second
side wall and an upper wall;
        an elongate track attachment member for attaching the upper guide track assembly
to the support, the elongate attachment member having a wall section defining the inner
side wall of the guide channel;
        an elongate track outer member connectable to the attachment member having a
wall section defining the outer side wall of the guide channel;
        an elongate screen retaining member within the guide channel, wherein the elongate
screen retaining member comprises;
        a body having a lower face with a longitudinal channel for receiving and retaining an
upper edge of a retractable screen;
        a first substantially resilient wing and a second substantially resilient wing extending
from respective first and second sides of the body and each first and second wing is biased
towards an open position in which the distal end of each wing is away from the body and is
moveable against the bias to a retracted position in which each distal end of each wing is
towards the body; and
        when the screen retaining member is retained in the guide channel, each first and
second wing is held in the closed position against the bias of the wing by contact with
respective first and second side walls of the guide channel, such that an upper edge of a
                                                 3

retractable screen retained by the screen retaining member is biased in the vertical direction
and the body of the screen retaining member is spaced from the upper wall of the guide
channel.
In the present description and claims, the term "inner" refers to that side of the assembly,
or a component that faces inwardly relative to the support. The term "outer" refers to that
side of the assembly or a component thereof that in use faces outwardly relative to the
support. The terms "upper" and "lower" refer to the respective orientations when the guide
track assembly is mounted to the support.
The elongate attachment member is suitably an aluminium extrusion. The attachment
member is attachable to a support which is suitably a door lintel. Attachment may be by
any suitable means and is suitably a screw.
The attachment member has a wall section that in use defines an inner side wall of the
guide channel. Suitably the attachment member includes an upper attachment section that
is configured to receive a fastener to fasten the guide track assembly to a support and a
lower wall section that defines the inner side wall of the guide channel.
In one embodiment, the upper attachment section includes an inner channel of rectangular
cross section having a wall that is contiguous with the lower wall section and which in use
receives a fastener for fastening the attachment member to a support.
In one embodiment the attachment member has a lower horizontal wall section that in use
defines the upper wall of the guide channel.
The guide track assembly also includes an elongate track outer member that isconnectable
to the attachment member.      The elongate track outer member is suitably an aluminium
extrusion. The elongate track outer member has a wall section that forms the second wall
of the guide channel.
Suitably the attachment member and outer member are connectable by a fastener such as
a screw.
In the embodiment where the attachment member includes an upper attachment section,
the upper attachment section may include a channel of U shaped cross section having an
                                              4

opening facing towards the outer side of the guide track assembly. The outer track member
may also include a channel of U shaped cross section, having an opening that is also
outwardly facing towards the outer side of the guide track assembly. The respective U
shaped channels are complimentary in shape such that in use the U shaped section of the
attachment member can at least partially receive the U shaped channel of the outer track
member. This arrangement allows the respective attachment and outer track members to
be positioned relative to each other in an easy and aligned manner during assembly of the
guide track assembly.
In this arrangement, the respective end walls of each U shaped section abut. The abutting
walls may be fixed together by a fastener such as a screw.
Suitably the guide track assembly further includes a cover member that can cover the open
end of the U shaped section of the track outer member so as to provide a neat appearance
to the outer side of the guide track assembly that is use faces outwardly away from the
support.
The guide track assembly includes a screen retaining member having a body and two
substantially resilient wings extending therefrom.
In one aspect, the screen retaining member body is substantially rigid. By substantially
rigid, it is meant that the body may tolerate some degree of flex but essentially retains its
shape under stress.        The substantially rigid body is suitably a substantially rigid
thermoplastic such as poly (vinyl chloride), (PVC).
Two substantially resilient wings extending from the body. By substantially resilient is meant
that the wings can resist being deformed towards the body, or in other words are biased
such that distal ends of the wings are away from the body.          A suitable material is a
thermoplastic elastomer such as polyurethane.
In one aspect the screen retaining member is formed by co-extrusion of an elastomeric
material whereby the body is a substantially rigid thermoplastic and the wings are a resilient
thermoplastic elastomer. Suitable materials and co-extrusion methods are known in the art.
In an alternative aspect, the body and wings may be formed separately and joined together.
This may provide a greater control of the respective physical and chemical properties of the
                                               5

body and wings, as it allows for the parts to be formed from materials that would not
otherwise be compatible for co-extrusion.
In one aspect the body may be formed by extrusion of a metallic material such as aluminium.
Such a construction may be more rigid than a rigid plastics material.
The wings may be extruded separately from a resilient plastics material and the body and
wings fixed together. Fixing of the two parts together may be by any suitable means.
In one aspect, the wings have a longitudinal recess or projection along the proximal end
thereof and the body has the other of a longitudinal projection or recess for sliding
engagement between the body and wings.
In the aspect where the wings have a longitudinal projection at the proximal end, in order to
facilitate and resist detachment, the projections may be formed from a more rigid material
than the main part of the wings. Suitably the wings may be co-extruded with the projections
extruded from a rigid thermoplastic such as a rigid PVC and the main portion of the wings
extruded from a thermoplastic elastomer.
In the aspect where the screen retaining member body is an aluminium extrusion, the
screen retaining member suitably further comprises a liner within the longitudinal channel
upon which an upper thickened edge of the screen may run. This can facilitate a smooth
running of the screen. A suitable material is a rigid thermoplastic such as PVC.
Also disclosed herein is a screen retaining member for an upper guide track of a horizontally
opening retractable screen, comprising a body having a longitudinal channel for receiving
and retaining an upper edge of a retractable screen; and
          a first substantially resilient wing and a second substantially resilient wing extending
from respective first and second sides of the body and each first and second wing is biased
towards an open position in which the distal end of each wing is away from the body and is
moveable against the bias to a closed position in which each distal end of each wing is
towards the body.
The wings are normally biased towards an open position, but when in the guide channel,
each wing is held in the closed position in which the distal ends of the wings are towards
the body, by contact of the distal ends of the wings with the walls of the guide channel. This
                                                   6

biases the screen retaining member in the vertical direction away from the centre of the
screen.
The screen retaining member is spaced from the upper wall of the guide channel such that
the screen retaining member is effectively in a "floating" position within the guide member.
If the support upon which the guide track assembly, sags or otherwise moves, the guide
track assembly that is fixed to the support will likewise move. However, this sag may be
compensated by the wings biasing the screen retaining member in the vertical direction
such that the position of the screen retaining member does not change, thereby minimising
or reducing any reduction in tension of the screen.
The screen retaining member has a channel for retaining an upper edge of a retractable
screen. The edge of the screen is suitably a thickened edge. A particularly suitable screen
has a zipper edge. Zipper edges are can be securely retained within retaining channels.
The present disclosure also relates to a method of installing the guide track assembly. The
elongate track attachment member and elongate track outer member are initially loosely
connected together. As respective wall sections of the track attachment and track outer
members define the walls of the guide channel, when the respective members are in the
loosely connected position, the opening of the U shaped guide channel is wider than when
in the in use position.
One suitable method for moving the respective members towards each other is by use of a
threaded fastener.
Suitably, the width of the guide channel in the loosely connected position is wider than the
body of the screen retaining member, but not wider than the full width of the body and wings
together, when the wings are in the closed position. This allows the screen retaining
member to be inserted into the channel relatively easily without the installer and/or
assembler having to press upwards against the full bias of the wings.
Suitably, the free ends of each wall of the guide channel have an inwardly facing rib that
provides a stop for the distal ends of the wings to hold the screen retaining member within
the guide channel.
                                               7

When the screen retaining member has been inserted into the guide channel, the loose
connection between the track attachment member and the outer track member is tightened
so as to draw the side walls of the guide channel towards each other, thereby drawing the
wings towards each other to the closed position.       One suitable method for moving the
respective members towards each other is by use of threaded fasteners.
According to a further aspect, there is disclosed a method of assembly of the disclosed
guide track assembly comprising loosely connecting the elongate track attachment member
and the elongate track outer member so as to form the guide channel, wherein the first side
wall and the second side wall of the guide channel are spaced apart such that the width of
the opening of the guide channel is wider than the width of the body of the screen retaining
member but less than the distance between the distal ends of the wings when in the open
position; such that the distal end of each wing bears against a respective guide channel
side wall and tightening the connection between the upper elongate track attachment
member and the elongate track attachment member so as to draw the guide channel side
walls together, thereby moving the wings of the screen retaining member to the closed
position.
The assembly may be conducted before or after the elongate wall member is attached to a
support, suitably before the assembly is attached to the support.
Also disclosed herein is a vertically opening screen having an upper guide track and a lower
guide track and a roller assembly, wherein the upper guide track is an upper guide track
assembly as disclosed herein.
Suitably the vertically opening screen comprises a drawbar that is operatively engaged with
the upper guide track for movement between open and closed positions.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Figure 1 is a perspective view of a one aspect of an upper guide track assembly as disclosed
herein;
Figure 2 is an exploded perspective view of the guide track assembly shown in Figure 1;
                                               8

Figures 3a, 3b and 3c show cross sectional views of the components of the guide track
assembly as shown in Figure 1;
Figure 4 is a cross section of the guide track assembly as shown in Figure 1;
Figure 5 is a cross section of the screen retaining member of the guide track assembly as
shown in Figure 1 in its extruded open position;
Figure 6 is another cross sectional view of the guide track assembly as shown in Figure 1,
in which the screen retaining member is in a different position to that shown in Figure 3;
Figure 7 is a bottom perspective view of the screen retaining member and end cap of the
guide track assembly shown in Figure 1;
Figure 8 is a schematic view of the guide track assembly as shown in Figure 1 in the loosely
connected position;
Figure 9 is a cross section of the guide track assembly as shown in Figure 3, but with a
different screen retaining member;
Figure 10 is a cross section of the screen retaining member of the guide track assembly
shown in Figure 9 in its extruded open position;
Figure 10a is a cross section of the body of the screen retaining member as shown in figure
10;
Figure 11 is a schematic view showing the guide track assembly as shown in Figure 1 with
a drawbar of a screen assembly; and
Figure 12 shows the guide track assembly and drawbar as shown in Figure 11 in an
engaged position.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
Figure 1 is a perspective view of one aspect of a guide track assembly 10. In use the guide
track assembly 10 is mounted to a horizontal support member such as a door lintel. The
                                               9

guide track assembly 10 has an inner side wall 8 that when mounted is towards the support
and an outer side wall 9, that when mounted faces outwardly away from the support.
The guide track assembly 10 has a U shaped guide channel 11 that has a first inner wall 12
and a second outer wall 14, an upper wall 16 and an opening 15.
The guide track assembly 10 includes an elongate track attachment member 20 for
attaching the guide track assembly 10 to a support such as a door lintel. The cross section
of the guide track assembly 20 is shown in Figure 3a. The track attachment member 20 has
an upper section 24 and a lower wall member 25. The lower wall member 25 defines the
first inner wall 12 of the guide channel 11.
The upper section 24 of the track attachment member 20 has at attachment portion 26 that
is rectangular in cross section with an inner side wall 28 and outer 30 side wall. The upper
section 24 also has a section of U shaped cross section 32 in which the open end therefore
faces outwardly.      The U shaped section 32 has an upper horizontal wall 34, a lower
horizontal wall 36, and a rear wall 37 that is common with the outer side wall 30 of the
attachment portion 26.
In use the track attachment member 20 is secured to a support such as a door lintel by
screws 39 that pass through inner side wall 28.
The guide track assembly 10 also includes an elongate track outer member 40 that engages
and is fixed to the attachment member 20, the cross section of which is shown in Figure 3b.
The track outer member 40 has an upper section 42 that is U shaped in cross section, the
open end of the U being outwardly facing. The U shaped section 42 has a rear wall 44, an
upper wall 48 and a base 50. The free end 48a of the upper wall 48 of the attachment
member 40 terminates in a thickened edge 49.
The track outer member 40 also includes a lower outer wall 52 that is contiguous with and
depends from the open end of the base 50. This lower outer wall 52 defines the outer wall
14 of the guide channel 11.
The upper section 42 of the track outer member 40 is complimentary in the shape to the U
shaped section 32 of the elongate track attachment member 20 such that the upper section
42 can be received within section 32 during assembly. During installation of the assembly
                                              10

10, the two U shaped sections 32, 42 are connected by a screw 56 as shown in Figure 3.
Installation and assembly will be described further below.
Figure 3 also shows that when the upper section 42 of the track outer member 40 is received
within the upper section 24 of the attachment member 20, the free ends 34a, 48a of the
respective upper walls are co-terminus.
The guide track assembly 10 further includes an elongate cover or filler 58 that closes off
the open end of the U shaped upper section 42 of the track outer member 40. The cross
section is shown in Figure 3c. The track cover 58 is substantially U shaped in cross section
with the open end facing inwardly when the guide track assembly 10 is assembled. The
track cover 58 has an upper wall 60, a lower wall 62 with a connecting web 64. The track
cover 58 is configured relative to the configuration of the track outer member 40 such that
it can be received thereby as is clearly shown in Figure 3.
The free end 60a of the upper side wall 60 of the filler 58 has an upstanding rib 66 and a
concavity 68. The concavity 68 is complimentary to the thickened edge 49 of the upper wall
48 of the track outer member 40 so as to facilitate a snap fit between the track filler 58 and
track outer member 40 for ease of assembly. The lower wall 50 of the track outer member
40 has an upstanding rib 70 that acts as a stop for the free end 62a of the lower wall 62 of
the track filler 58.
Figures 3c and Figure 4 also show that the lower wall 52 of the track outer member 40 has
an inwardly facing rib 72 in the upper part thereof. This rib 72 defines a channel between
the rib 72 and the base 50 that snugly receives the free end 36a of the lower wall 36 of the
track attachment member 20.
The lower wall 36 of the track attachment member 20 also has a downwardly projecting rib
74 that is located towards the inner end of the lower wall 36. The lower wall 36 also has a
centrally located curved projection defining a downward facing longitudinal channel 76. The
distance d between the projection 76 and rib 74 is the same as the distance d between
projection 76 and the free end of rib 72.
These additional features assist with installation of the guide track assembly 10 as will be
discussed below.
                                              11

The guide track assembly 10 further includes an elongate screen retaining member 80
located within guide channel 11.       With reference to Figures 4 and 5, the screen retaining
member 80 has a substantially rigid body 82 having a longitudinal channel 84 having a
narrow entry channel 84a. The channel 84 is configured for receiving and retaining a
thickened edge of a screen.
The screen retaining member 80 includes a first and second substantially resilient wings
86, 88 extending therefrom.       The screen retaining member 80 is suitably formed from a
rubber material that has been coextruded according to known co-extrusion methods.
Each wing 86, 88 is biased towards an open position in which the distal end 86a, 88a of
each wing 86, 88 is away from the body as shown in Figure 5 and a closed position in which
the respective distal ends 86a, 88a are towards the body as shown in Figure 3. Figure 3
shows that each wing 86, 88 is held against the bias in the closed position by the walls 12,
14 of the guide channel 11. The free end 12a, 14a, of each wall 12, 14 of the guide channel
11 has a return section 12b, 14b that defines a channel that receives the respective distal
end 86a, 88b of each wing 86, 88 so as to prevent the screen retaining member from being
pulled out of the guide channel 11 by the weight of the screen.
It may be appreciated that the screen retaining member is in a "floating position" within the
guide channel 11 as it is able to move towards the upper wall 16 of the guide channel.
A disadvantage with prior art horizontally opening screens is that the door lintels or other
support to which the guide assembly is attached can sag over time. As the guide assembly
is fixed to the door lintel, the guide assembly also drops with the lintel. In the prior art, lintel
sag often caused a loss of tension in the screen. However, in the guide assembly 10 as
disclosed herein, because of the fact that the screen retaining member is held within the
guide channel 11 against the bias of the wings 86, 88 if there is lintel sag and the guide
assembly 10 drops, the bias of the screen retaining member 80 can compensate for the
drop so as to reduce or minimise loss in tension of the screen. Figure 6 shows the screen
retaining member 80 in such a compensating position.
The guide track assembly 10 and installation of the guide track assembly 10 will now be
described.
                                                 12

The guide track assembly 10 further includes an end cap 90 (see Figures 2 and 7). The
end cap 90 has a U shaped projection 92 that is dimensioned to be snugly received within
rectangular section 26 of the attachment member 20. This allows for easy alignment of the
attachment member 20 with the cap 90 during installation. The location of projection 92
within the end of section 26 may be seen in Figure 6. The cap 90 also includes two
longitudinal projections 94, 96. These projections 94, 96 are dimensioned and located to
be positioned adjacent and below lower horizontal wall 36 of the attachment member 20.
The end cap 90 is fixed to the end of the guide track assembly has an aperture 98 axially
located with respect to the projection 98 on the attachment member 20. In use, a screw is
passed through aperture 98 so as to engage the attachment member 20. The point of the
screw 100 is shown in Figure 6.
The cap 90 further includes a rounded projection 102 terminating in a rearwardly inclined
stop. This projection 102 cooperates with slot 104 of the screen retaining member at the
end of the screen retaining channel 84.       In use, projection 102 acts as a stop for the
thickened upper edge of a screen when the screen is being pushed towards the open
position.
Prior to installation, the elongate track attachment member 20 and elongate track outer
member 40 are loosely connected together with screw 34 such that the opening of the guide
channel 11 is wider than the width w1 of the body 82 of the extrusion, but narrower than the
distance dl between the distal ends 86a, 88a of the wings in their extended unbiased
position (shown in Figure 5). This loose connection is shown schematically in Figure 8.
This loose connection allows the screen retaining member 80 to be easily pushed into the
guide channel against the bias of the wings 86, 88. In some applications, the length of the
guide track assembly 10 may be 4 to 6m. It will be appreciated that this allows for relatively
easy placement of the screen retaining member 80 within guide channel 11.
The screws 34 are then tightened so as to draw the two sides 12, 14 of the guide channel
11 towards each other to the positioned in Figure 3, against the bias of the wings 86, 88 to
the in use position. With reference to Figure 8, it will be understood that as the screws 34
are tightened, the base 50 of the track outer member 40 rides along the lower horizontal
wall 36 of the attachment member 20.
                                               13

The track cover 58 is then clipped into place along the outer side of the assembly so as to
provide a neat and tidy appearance to the guide track assembly 10 as a whole. As concavity
68 is complimentary to the thickened edge 49 of the upper wall 48 of the track outer member
40 so as to facilitate a snap fit between the track filler 58 and track outer member 40 for
ease of assembly.
Figure 9 shows the guide track assembly 10 with an alternative screen retaining member
180. The other components of the guide track assembly are as previously described and
the same reference numerals will be used to refer to the same parts.
Figure 10 shows the screen retaining member 180 in which the wings 186, 188 are in the
extended position. Figure 10a shows the body 182 of the screen retaining member.
The screen retaining member 180 has essentially the same overall shape as the screen
retaining member 80 as shown in Figure 1 in that the screen retaining member 180 has a
body 182 and two wings 186, 188 extending from the body 182.
The body 182 is an aluminium extrusion. The upper section of the body 182 has two
longitudinal recesses 190, 192 extending along the length thereof. The recesses 190, 192
have a wide base 190a, 192a and a narrower retaining collar 190b, 192b.
The proximal end of each wing 186, 188 has a projection 194, 196, that is complimentary
to the respective recess 190, 192 in the body. Each projection 194, 196 has a wide retaining
member 194a, 194b and a narrower neck 194b, 196a. This arrangement allows the body
180 to slidingly receive the projections 194, 196 of the wings and to be retained thereby.
The projections 194, 196 are formed from a substantially rigid thermoplastic such as PVC.
The main body of the wings is formed from an extruded thermoplastics elastomer such that
they are more resilient and flexible than the projections 194, 196. The wings 186, 188 are
suitably co-extruded.
The upper guide track assembly 10 as shown in Figures 9 and 10 also includes a
substantially circular liner 198 located within retaining channel 184. In use the thickened
edge of a screen member will be retained within the retaining channel 84 and will be
supported by liner 198.
                                               14

The liner 198 is suitably a rigid extruded thermoplastics elastomeric material such as PVC.
The liner 198 fits snugly within channel 84 but is free to move with respect to the retainer
body 182 so as to absorb a rotational force as a result of the screen being subjected to wind
or being struck by an object.
In the event of an impact upon a screen held within the channel, a downward force will be
applied to the liner 198 so that it may pinch down upon the thickened edge of the screen
which helps to resist the screen from being pulled out of the channel 184.
In the event of a sideways force on the screen, such as being blown by a strong wind, or hit
by an object, the liner 198 can rotate within channel 184 so as to reduce resistance on the
thickened edge of the screen.
This may be compared with the body 82 of the screen retaining member 80 as shown in
Figure 1 that is a single piece of PVC. When this screen retaining member 80 is subjected
to excess stress, the PVC body 82 also accommodates the pressure.            However, if the
excess pressure is too great, the side walls of the narrow section 84a can distort and the
screen can be pulled out of channel 84. However, where the body 182 of the screen
retaining member 180 is made from a rigid material such as aluminium, the side walls of
narrow section 198a of the liner 198 are held or pinched together against the rigid
aluminium, such that there is less chance of the screen being pulled out of the screen
retaining member 180.
As the body 82 of the screen retaining member 80 as shown in Figure 1 is in one piece,
there is also no ability to absorb or accommodate a rotational force on the upper edge of
the screen as described above in which the liner 198 can rotate within channel 184.
Figures 11 and 12 show how the upper guide track assembly 10 as shown in Figure 1
engages with a drawbar 200 so as to guide the upper part of the drawbar 200 between an
open position towards a roller and a closed position away from the roller. The drawbar 200
retains a free edge of a screen. Figure 11 shows the drawbar 200 spaced from the upper
guide track assembly 10.
The drawbar 200 has a main body 202 and an end cap 204. The upper facing part 206 of
the end cap 204 has a profile that is complimentary to the lower part 207 of the screen
retaining member body 82. Specifically, the upper profile of the cap 204 is substantially U
                                               15

shaped, the inner walls of the U defined by longitudinal inwardly facing curved ribs 208,
209.
The lower part 207 of the screen retaining member body 80 has curved channels 210, 211
extending along both sides thereof.
It will be appreciated that various changes and modifications may be made to the invention
as disclosed and claimed herein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.
                                             16

CLAIMS
1.   An upper guide track assembly for a horizontally opening retractable screen that in
     use is attached to a support and has an inner side facing towards the support and an
     outer side facing outwards away from the support; the upper guide track assembly
     comprising;
               a substantially U shaped guide channel having an inner side wall, an outer
     side wall and an upper wall;
               an elongate track attachment member for attaching the upper guide track
     assembly to the support, the elongate attachment member having a wall section
     defining the inner side wall of the guide channel;
               an elongate track outer member connectable to the attachment member
     having a wall section defining the outer side wall of the guide channel; and
               an elongate screen retaining member within the guide channel, wherein the
       elongate screen retaining member comprises;
               an elongate body having a lower face with a longitudinal channel for
     receiving and retaining an upper edge of a retractable screen;
               a first substantially resilient wing and a second substantially resilient wing
     extending from respective first and second sides of the elongate body and each first
     and second wing comprises a proximal end towards the elongate body and a distal
     end and each wing is biased towards an open position in which the distal end of each
     wing is away from the body and is moveable against the bias to a retracted position
     in which each distal end of each first and second wing is towards the body; and
               when the screen retaining member is retained in the guide channel, each
     first and second wing is held in the retracted position against the bias by contact with
     respective first and second side walls of the guide channel, such that an upper edge
     of a retractable screen retained by the screen retaining member is biased in the
     vertical direction and the body of the screen retaining member is spaced from the
     upper wall of the guide channel.
2.   The guide track assembly of claim 1, wherein the elongate attachment member
     includes a lower horizontal wall section that in use defines the upper wall of the guide
     channel.
3.   The guide track assembly of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the elongate attachment
     member includes an upper attachment section that is configured to receive a fastener
                                                17

   to fasten the guide track assembly to a support and a lower wall section that defines
   the inner side wall of the guide channel.
4. The guide track assembly of claim 3, wherein, the upper attachment section includes
   an inner channel of rectangular cross section having a wall that is contiguous with the
   lower wall section and which in use receives a fastener for fastening the attachment
   member to the support.
5. The guide track assembly of claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the upper attachment section
   includes a channel of U shaped cross section having an end wall and an opposed
   opening facing towards the outer side of the guide track assembly.
6. The guide track assembly of claim 5, wherein the outer track member includes a
   channel of U shaped cross section, having an end wall and an opposed opening that
   is also outwardly facing towards the outer side of the guide track assembly and which
   is complimentary in shape to the channel of U shaped cross section of the upper
   attachment section such that in use the channel of U shaped section of the upper
   attachment section is at least partially received within the channel       of U shaped
   channel of the outer track member.
7. The guide track assembly of claim 6, wherein the end wall of the channel of U shaped
   cross section of the upper attachment section and the end wall of the channel of U
   shaped cross section of the outer track member abut such that the abutting walls may
   be fixed together by a fastener.
8. The guide track assembly of claim 6 that further comprises an elongate cover member
   that can cover the opening of the channel of U shaped section of the elongate track
   outer member.
9. The guide track assembly of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein each of the inner side
   wall and outer side wall of the substantially U shaped guide channel comprise an
   inwardly facing rib that provides a stop for the distal end of each wing of the elongate
   screen retaining member to hold the screen retaining member within the guide
   channel.
                                           18

10. The guide track assembly of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the body of the elongate
    screen retaining member is formed from a substantially rigid thermoplastic and each
    first and second wing is formed form a resilient thermoplastic elastomer and the
    elongate screen retaining member is formed by co-extrusion.
11. The guide track assembly of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the body of the elongate
    screen retaining member y is formed separately from each first and second wing and
    the body of the elongate screen retaining member and each wing are joined together.
12. The guide track assembly of claim 11, wherein the elongate screen retaining member
    body is an aluminium extrusion.
13. The guide track assembly of claim 12, wherein each first and second wing comprises
    a longitudinal recess or projection at the proximal end thereof and the elongate body
    of the screen retaining member comprises the other of a longitudinal projection or
    recess for sliding engagement of the proximal end of each first and second wing
    between the elongate body of the screen retaining member and each first and second
    wing.
14. The guide track assembly of claim 13, wherein each first and second wing comprises
    a longitudinal projection at the proximal end thereof, and each projection of each wing
    is formed from a material that is more rigid than the other part of each first and second
    wing.
15. The guide track assembly of claim 13, wherein each first and second wing is co
    extruded with the projections extruded from a rigid thermoplastic such as a rigid PVC
    and the other part of each first and second wing is extruded from a thermoplastic
    elastomer.
16. The guide track assembly of any one of claims 11 to 15, which further comprises an
    elongate liner within the longitudinal channel in the body of the elongate screen
    retaining member.
                                             19

15. A screen retaining member for an upper guide track of a horizontally opening
    retractable screen, comprising a body having a longitudinal channel for receiving and
    retaining an upper edge of a retractable screen;
              a first substantially resilient wing and a second substantially resilient wing
    extending from respective first and second sides of the body and each first and
    second wing is biased towards an open position in which the distal end of each wing
    is away from the body and is moveable against the bias to a closed position in which
    each distal end of each wing is towards the body, wherein each first and second wing
    comprises a longitudinal recess or projection at the proximal end thereof and the
    elongate body of the screen retaining member comprises the other of a longitudinal
    projection or recess for sliding engagement of the proximal end of each first and
    second wing between the elongate body of the screen retaining member and each
    first and second wing.
16. The screen retaining member of claim 15, wherein each first and second wing
    comprises a longitudinal projection at the proximal end thereof, and each projection
    of each wing is formed from a material that is more rigid than the other part of each
    first and second wing.
17. The guide track assembly of claim 16, wherein each first and second wing is co
    extruded with the projections extruded from a rigid thermoplastic such as a rigid PVC
    and the other part of each first and second wing is extruded from a thermoplastic
    elastomer.
18. A method of assembly of the guide track assembly of claim 1, the method comprising
    loosely connecting the elongate track attachment member and the elongate track
    outer member so as to form the guide channel, wherein the first side wall and the
    second side wall of the guide channel are spaced apart such that the width of the
    opening of the guide channel is wider than the width of the body of the screen retaining
    member but less than the distance between the distal ends of the wings when in the
    open position; such that the distal end of each wing bears against a respective guide
    channel side wall and tightening the connection between the upper elongate track
    attachment member and the elongate track attachment member so as to draw the
    guide channel side walls together, thereby moving the wings of the screen retaining
    member to the closed position.
                                              20

19. A vertically opening screen having an upper guide track and a lower guide track, a
    roller assembly and a flexible screen, wherein the upper guide track is the upper guide
    track assembly of any one of claims 1 to 16.
19. The vertically opening screen of claim 18, wherein the screen comprises a drawbar
    that is operatively engaged with the upper guide track assembly for movement
    between open and closed positions, wherein the body of the elongate                screen
    retaining member has a lower part having a first profile and the draw bar has an upper
    part with a second profile, the first profile is complimentary to the second profile such
    that the lower part of the elongate screen retaining member guides the upper part of
    the drawbar.
20. The vertically opening screen of claim 19, wherein the flexible screen has an upper
    zipper edge.
                                              21

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
