                                        ABSTRACT
         A discharge head features at least one low-deflection component that
  substantially does not deflect in response to high piping forces applied in a direction
  perpendicular to the discharge head; at least one high-deflection component that
5 deflects in response to the high piping forces; and a flexible element configured
  between the at least one low-deflection component and the at least one high
  deflection component to contain pressure and to be highly flexible in the direction
  perpendicular to the centerline of the discharge head.

       VERTICAL PUMP HAVING DISCHARGE HEAD WITH FLEXIBLE ELEMENT
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           1. Field of the Invention
           The present invention relates to a discharge head; and more particularly to a
 5 discharge head for a vertically suspended pump type.
           2. Brief Description of Related Art
           Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way
   be considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of
 0 common general knowledge in the field.
           By way of example, Figure 1A shows a known vertically suspended pump
   type and includes reference designations of various parts and components that
   make up the same. Vertically suspended pumps are known in the art which operate
   in an upright position and employ a bowl assembly including a rotary impeller
 5 submerged in a body of liquid or fluid to be pumped. By way of further example, the
   reader is also referred to United States Patent No. 8,226,352, which discloses a
   discharge head for configuring in such a vertically suspended pump type, which is
   assigned to the assignee of the present invention, and hereby incorporated by
   reference in its entirety.
20         In operation, discharge heads of vertical pumps are often subjected to high
   piping forces from expanding pipe joints at the connection between the piping and
   pump discharge flange. These expanding pipe joints are designed to be flexible and
   are typically constructed of rubber elements. The high piping forces which occur in
   the direction perpendicular to the face of the pump discharge flange are the result of
25 elastic expansion of the expanding pipe joint elements along their centerline axis
                                               -1-

   when pressurized. When flexible pipe joints are used, these forces are
   approximately equal to the discharge pressure times the projected area of the inside
   diameter of the joint. For example, a 36-inch diameter expanding pipe joint
   pressurized to 100 psig produces a piping force equal to 101,736 lbf acting
 5 horizontally against the pump discharge head.
          High piping forces applied against standard discharge head designs cause
   material deflection of the discharge head which in turn causes misalignment of the
   stationary bearings mounted in the discharge head from the rotating shaft of the
   pump. This internal pump misalignment causes high mechanical vibration and
 0 contact wear between the bearings and bearing journals on the shaft. As a result,
   pump life is shortened.
          There is a need in the industry for a discharge head design that reduces the
   undesirable effects from high piping forces, including misalignment of the bearings
   mounted in the discharge head from the rotating shaft of the pump and high
 5 mechanical vibration and contact wear between the bearings and bearing journals on
   the shaft.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
          It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one
20 of the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
          An embodiment of the present invention provides a new and unique discharge
   head design, which separates one set of flexible components of the discharge head
   which deflect under the high piping forces from another set of rigid components of
   the discharge head which support one or more bearings. The flexible components
25 which deflect are the pump discharge flange and the discharge elbow, and the rigid
                                               -2-

   components which support the one or more bearings are the motor supports and the
   bearing housings. A flexible element may be inserted between the flexible and rigid
   components of the discharge head so that the deflection of the former is not
   communicated to the latter. The flexible components may be designed to contain
 5 pressure and to be highly flexible in the direction perpendicular to the centerline of
   the discharge head, which is the direction of the high piping force. The rigid
   components may be design to maintain internal pump alignment and product life is
   improved.
          When this innovative discharge head design with flexible element design is
 0 used in vertically suspended pump types, the benefits may include the following:
          - Customer installation costs are reduced because allowable piping forces on
   the pumps can be increased.
          - Pump weights are reduced because discharge elbows are designed based
   solely on material stress values and not based on restraining deflections.
 5        - Pump mechanical vibration and rates of wear are reduced because internal
   alignment at bearings is maintained under high pipe forces.
          - Pump life cycles are increased because vibration and rates of wear are
   reduced.
20                          Examples of Particular Embodiments
          An embodiment of the present invention provides a new and unique discharge
   head featuring at least one low-deflection component that substantially does not
   deflect in response to high piping forces applied in a direction perpendicular to the
   discharge head; at least one high-deflection component that deflects in response to
25 the high piping forces; and a flexible element configured between the at least one
                                              -3-

   low-deflection component and the at least one high-deflection component to contain
   pressure and to be highly flexible in the direction perpendicular to the centerline of
   the discharge head.
          According to some embodiments of the present invention, the discharge head
 5 may include one or more of the features, as follows:
          The at least one high-deflection component may include some combination of
   a pump discharge flange and a discharge elbow.
          The at least one low-deflection component may include components which
   support one or more bearings, including some combination of motor supports and a
 0 bearing housing.
          The flexible element may be configured or inserted between the at least one
   low-deflection component and the at least one high-deflection component, so that
   the deflection of the at least one high-deflection component is not substantially
   communicated to the at least one low-deflection component.
 5        The flexible element may be configured as a bellows-like flexible structure and
   made from any flexible material, including elastomers and metals.
          The discharge head may include a mounting plate and a base plate, and the
   motor supports may be configured to couple the mounting plate and the base plate.
          The discharge head may include rib supports, and the bearing housing may
20 be configured or coupled to the rib supports.
          The discharge elbow may be coupled to the base plate.
          The flexible element may be configured to couple the bearing housing to the
   discharge elbow.
          According to some embodiments, the present invention may also take the
25 form of a vertical pump featuring a first pump arrangement, a second pump
                                               -4-

   combination and the new and unique discharge head. The first pump arrangement
   may include a vertical solid shaft motor configured on a motor support for rotating a
   drive shaft. The second pump combination may include a column arranged about
   the drive shaft, and also include a bowl assembly having a rotary impeller coupled to
 5 the drive shaft. Consistent with that set forth herein, the new and unique discharge
   head may be configured to couple the motor support of the first pump arrangement
   and the column of the second pump arrangement. The discharge head may also
   include at least one low-deflection component that substantially does not deflect in
   response to high piping forces applied in a direction perpendicular to a centerline of
 0 the discharge head; at least one high-deflection component that deflects in response
   to the high piping forces; and a flexible element configured between the at least one
   low-deflection component and the at least one high-deflection component to contain
   pressure and to be highly flexible in the direction perpendicular to the centerline of
   the discharge head. The flexible element may also be configured so an internal
 5 pump alignment of the vertical pump is substantially maintained.
          According to some embodiments, the present invention may also take the
   form of a discharge head for a vertical pump having a motor mounting plate and a
   base plate, comprising:
                 three or more motor supports configured to couple or connect the
20 motor mounting plate and the base plate;
                 three or more rib supports configured to couple or connect a bearing
   housing and the three or more three motor supports;
                 a discharge elbow having a discharge elbow flange, the discharge
   elbow configured, coupled or affixed to the base plate, and the discharge elbow
                                               -5-

   flange configured to couple to piping that subjects the discharge elbow to piping
   forces in a direction perpendicular to a centerline of the discharge head; and
                  a bellows-like flexible structure and flange-like elements, arranged and
   fastened between the bearing housing and the discharge elbow, and configured to
 5 contain pressure and flex in the direction perpendicular to the centerline of the
   discharge head in response to the piping forces.
           According to some embodiments, the present invention may also take the
   form of a vertical pump comprising:
                  a first pump arrangement having a vertical solid shaft motor configured
 0 for rotating a drive shaft;
                  a second pump combination having a column arranged about the drive
   shaft, and having a bowl assembly with a rotary impeller coupled to the drive shaft;
   and
                  a discharge head having a motor mounting plate configured to couple
 5 to the vertical solid shaft motor of the first pump arrangement, and having a base
   plate configured to couple to the column of the second pump arrangement, the
   discharge head comprising:
                  three or more motor supports configured to couple or connect the
   motor mounting plate and the base plate;
20                three or more rib supports configured to couple or connect a bearing
   housing and the three or more motor supports;
                  a discharge elbow having a discharge elbow flange, the discharge
   elbow coupled to the base plate, and the discharge elbow flange configured to
   couple to piping that subjects the discharge elbow to piping forces in a direction
25 perpendicular to a centerline of the discharge head; and
                                                 -6-

                  a bellows-like flexible structure and flange-like elements, arranged and
   fastened between the bearing housing and the discharge elbow, and configured to
   contain pressure and flex in the direction perpendicular to the centerline of the
   discharge head in response to the piping forces.
 5         Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and
   the claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an
   inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the
   sense of "including, but not limited to".
 0                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
          The drawing includes Figures 1A-4B, which are not necessarily drawn to
   scale:
           Figure 1 shows a diagram of an example of one known vertically suspended
   pump assembly.
 5         Figure 2 is a diagram of an example of a new discharge head design
   according to some embodiments of the present invention.
           Figure 3 is a copy of a photograph showing a flexible element that may be
   configured to form part of the new discharge head design shown in Figure 2, e.g., in
   the form of a bellows-like structure arranged between a bearing housing and a
20 discharge elbow of the new discharge head design, according to some embodiments
   of the present invention.
           Figure 4A is diagram of a vertically suspended pump having the new
   discharge head design incorporated therein, according to some embodiments of the
   present invention.
                                                -7-

           Figure 4B is an index containing a list of the components by item no. and a
   description for the vertically suspended pump shown in Figure 4B.
                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 5         Figure 2 shows the new and unique discharge head generally indicated as 10
   featuring:
                   at least one low-deflection component, e.g., including a combination of
           a motor support generally indicated as 12 and a bearing housing 14, that
           substantially does not deflect in response to high piping forces F applied in a
 0         direction perpendicular to a centerline CL of the discharge head 10;
                   at least one high-deflection component, e.g., including a combination of
           a discharge elbow 16 and a discharge elbow flange 18, that deflects in
           response to the high piping forces F; and
                   a flexible element 20 configured between the at least one low
 5         deflection component such as elements 12, 14 and the at least one high
           deflection component such as elements 16, 18 to contain pressure and to be
           highly flexible in the direction perpendicular to the centerline CL of the
           discharge head 10.
           The flexible element 20 may be configured, arranged or inserted between the
20 low-deflection components 12, 14 and the high-deflection components 16, 18 so that
   the deflection of the high-deflection components 16, 18 is not substantially
   communicated to the low-deflection components 12, 14.
           The discharge head 10 may include a mounting plate 22 and a base plate 24.
   The motor support 12 may be configured with three or more supports, e.g., including
                                                -8-

   four supports 12a, 12b, 12c, 12d as shown, that are configured to couple the
   mounting plate 22 and the base plate 24.
          The discharge head 10 may also include three or more rib supports, e.g.,
   including rib supports 15a, 15b, 15c, 15d as shown, and the bearing housing 14 may
 5 be configured or coupled to the rib supports 15a, 15b, 15c, 15d as shown.
          The discharge elbow 10 may be configured, coupled or affixed to the base
   plate 24 as also shown.
          The flexible element 10 may be configured to couple the bearing housing 14
   to the discharge elbow 16 as shown, and consistent for example with that shown in
 0 Figure 3.
          By way of example, Figure 3 shows the flexible element 20 configured in the
   form of a bellows-like flexible structure 20a arranged between the bearing housing
   14 and the discharge elbow 16, according to some embodiments of the present
   invention. According to some embodiments, the bellows-like flexible structure 20a
 5 may be made from a flexible material such as rubber, although the scope of the
   invention is intended to include using other types or kinds of flexible materials either
   now known or later developed in the future.
          By way of further example, the bellows-like flexible structure 20a may be
   configured with two flange-like elements 20b and 20c, and coupling elements 21 a
20 and 21 b may be configured to fasten the two flange-like elements 20b and 20c to the
   bearing housing 14 and the discharge elbow 16 respectively as shown, e.g., using
   nut and bolt combinations, one of which is indicated by reference label 23. As
   shown, the bolts are configured to extend from the bearing housing 14 and the
   discharge elbow 16, although embodiment are envisioned in which, and the scope of
                                               -9-

   the invention is intended to include, the bolts screwing into the bearing housing 14
   and the discharge elbow 16.
           Embodiments are also envisioned in which, and the scope of the invention is
   intended to include, one or more internal metal element (not shown) that may be
 5 provided to prevent the bellows-like flexible structure 20a from collapsing under
   certain vacuum conditions.
           When the new discharge head 10 is configured in such a vertical pump, the
   flexible element 20 may be configured so that the internal pump alignment of the
   vertical pump is substantially maintained, especially in response to the high piping
 0 forces, which provides an improvement over prior art discharge heads.
                                       Figures 4A and 4B
           Figure 4A is diagram of a vertically suspended pump having the new
   discharge head design incorporated therein, according to some embodiments of the
 5 present invention. For example, see the head expansion joint identified by element
   118. Moreover, see Figure 4B showing an index with a list of the components.
                                  The Scope of the Invention
           It should be understood that, unless stated otherwise herein, any of the
20 features, characteristics, alternatives or modifications described regarding a
   particular embodiment herein may also be applied, used, or incorporated with any
   other embodiment described herein. Also, the drawings herein are not drawn to
   scale.
           Although the invention has been described and illustrated with respect to
25 exemplary embodiments thereof, the foregoing and various other additions and
                                              -10-

omissions may be made therein and thereto without departing from the spirit and
scope of the present invention.
                                     -11-

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
           1. A discharge head for a vertical pump having a motor mounting plate and a
   base plate, comprising:
           three or more motor supports configured to couple or connect the motor
 5 mounting plate and the base plate;
           three or more rib supports configured to couple or connect a bearing housing
   and the three or more three motor supports;
           a discharge elbow having a discharge elbow flange, the discharge elbow
   configured, coupled or affixed to the base plate, and the discharge elbow flange
 O configured to couple to piping that subjects the discharge elbow to piping forces in a
   direction perpendicular to a centerline of the discharge head; and
           a bellows-like flexible structure and flange-like elements, arranged and
   fastened between the bearing housing and the discharge elbow, and configured to
   contain pressure and flex in the direction perpendicular to the centerline of the
 5 discharge head in response to the piping forces.
           2. A discharge head according to claim 1, wherein the discharge head
   comprises coupling elements configured to fasten respectively the flange-like
   elements to the bearing housing and the discharge elbow respectively.
20
           3. A discharge head according to claim 2, wherein
           the flange-like elements include a first flange-like element, the coupling
   elements include a first coupling element, and the first flange-like element is
   arranged between the first coupling element and the bearing housing; and
                                               -12-

          the flange-like elements include a second flange-like element, the coupling
   elements include a second coupling element, and the second flange-like element is
   arranged between the second coupling element and the discharge elbow.
 5        4. A discharge head according to claim 3, wherein
          the first flange-like element is fastened between the first coupling element and
   the bearing housing using a nut and bolt combination; and
          the second flange-like element is fastened between the second coupling
   element and the discharge elbow using a nut and bolt combination.
 0
          5. A discharge head according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
   the bellows-like flexible structure and flange-like elements are made from rubber.
          6. A discharge head according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
 5 the piping force includes high piping forces applied by, and provided from, expanding
   pipe joints at a connection between the piping and the discharge elbow flange.
          7. A discharge head according to claim 6, wherein the high piping forces are
   the result of elastic expansion of expanding piping elements along the centerline axis
20 when pressurized.
          8. A discharge head according to claim 6, wherein the discharge elbow and
   the discharge elbow flange form part of high-deflection components configured to
   respond directly to the high piping forces.
25
                                               -13-

           9. A discharge head according to claim 8, wherein
           the three or more motor supports and the bearing housing form part of low
   deflection components; and
           the bellows-like flexible structure and flange-like elements are configured,
 5 arranged or inserted between the low-deflection components and the high-deflection
   components, so that a deflection of the high-deflection components is not
   communicated directly to the low-deflection components.
           10. A vertical pump comprising:
 0         a first pump arrangement having a vertical solid shaft motor configured for
   rotating a drive shaft;
           a second pump combination having a column arranged about the drive shaft,
   and having a bowl assembly with a rotary impeller coupled to the drive shaft; and
           a discharge head having a motor mounting plate configured to couple to the
 5 vertical solid shaft motor of the first pump arrangement, and having a base plate
   configured to couple to the column of the second pump arrangement, the discharge
   head comprising:
           three or more motor supports configured to couple or connect the motor
   mounting plate and the base plate;
20         three or more rib supports configured to couple or connect a bearing housing
   and the three or more motor supports;
           a discharge elbow having a discharge elbow flange, the discharge elbow
   coupled to the base plate, and the discharge elbow flange configured to couple to
   piping that subjects the discharge elbow to piping forces in a direction perpendicular
25 to a centerline of the discharge head; and
                                               -14-

          a bellows-like flexible structure and flange-like elements, arranged and
   fastened between the bearing housing and the discharge elbow, and configured to
   contain pressure and flex in the direction perpendicular to the centerline of the
   discharge head in response to the piping forces.
 5
          11. A vertical pump according to claim 10, wherein the discharge head
   comprises coupling elements configured to fasten respectively the flange-like
   elements to the bearing housing and the discharge elbow respectively.
 0        12. A vertical pump according to claim 11, wherein
          the flange-like elements include a first flange-like element, the coupling
   elements include a first coupling element, and the first flange-like element is
   arranged between the first coupling element and the bearing housing; and
          the flange-like elements include a second flange-like element, the coupling
 5 elements include a second coupling element, and the second flange-like element is
   arranged between the second coupling element and the discharge elbow.
          13. A vertical pump according to claim 12, wherein
          the first flange-like element is fastened between the first coupling element and
20 the bearing housing using a nut and bolt combination; and
          the second flange-like element is fastened between the second coupling
   element and the discharge elbow using a nut and bolt combination.
          14. A vertical pump according to any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein the
25 bellows-like flexible structure and flange-like elements are made from rubber.
                                               -15-

           15. A vertical pump according to any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein the
   piping force includes high piping forces applied by, and provided from, expanding
   pipe joints at a connection between the piping and the discharge elbow flange.
 5
           16. A vertical pump according to claim 15, wherein the high piping forces are
   the result of elastic expansion of expanding piping elements along the centerline axis
   when pressurized.
 0         17. A vertical pump according to claim 15, wherein the discharge elbow and
   the discharge elbow flange form part of high-deflection components configured to
   respond directly to the high piping forces.
           18. A vertical pump according to claim 15, wherein
 5        the three or more motor supports and the bearing housing form part of low
   deflection components; and
          the bellows-like flexible structure and flange-like elements are configured,
   arranged or inserted between the low-deflection components and the high-deflection
   components, so that a deflection of the high-deflection components is not
20 communicated directly to the low-deflection components.
                                              -16-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
