   ABSTRACT:
   A building clip (2) for connection to a building component to enable the building component to
   be secured to a support structure, the building clip (2) including a base portion (4), a first
   connecting portion (6) and a second connecting portion (8) each extending substantially
 5 orthogonally from said base portion (4) and defining a gap (5) therebetween to accommodate
   said building component; said first connecting portion (6) having a first set of recesses (23) and
   projections (21) and said second connecting portion (8) having a second set of recesses (27) and
   projections (25), wherein the clip (2) connects to said building component through said first and
   second sets of recesses (23, 27), an aperture (24) located in at least one of said first connecting
10 portion (6) or said second connecting portion (8) to enable securing of an article or articles (64,
   66) to said clip (2).
                                                     9

I-ciL
     Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are five pages of description only

                                      IMPROVED BUILDING CLIP
   Field of the Invention
            This invention relates to a building clip and more particularly to a clip used to secure
   articles to an elongate building member as well as securing the building member to a support
 5 structure, such as a ceiling or wall.
   Background of the Invention
            When erecting internal walls and ceilings within a building, generally such a wall or
   ceiling, which is typically made of plaster board, is attached to a framework of elongate
   members, such as furring channels, that are mounted parallel with each other. The framework is
10 attached to a support structure leaving a gap to allow utilities such as cables and pipes to be
   concealed within the wall or ceiling cavity. Generally such cables or pipes have to be secured in
   some manner, particularly with internal walls, to prevent bending or generally having the cables
   or pipes randomly positioned within the wall or ceiling cavity.
           There is a need to have secure attachment of such cables and pipes that saves time ,saves
15 costs and removes potential safety hazards of a tradesperson affixing such cables and pipes. The
   cables and pipes would otherwise have had to be secured separately or secured to the plaster
   board framework, for convenience, which could interfere or compromise the integrity of the
   framework, or could be inserted behind furring channels, for convenience, which provides a
   safety hazard in the form of electric shock when cables are present, or gas or water leaks when
20 pipes are present.
   Summary of the Invention
                                                       2

            According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a building clip for
    connection to a building component to enable the building component to be secured to a support
    structure, the building clip including:
            a base portion;
 5          a first connecting portion and a second connecting portion each extending substantially
    orthogonally from said base portion and defining a gap therebetween to accommodate said
   building component; said first connecting portion having a first set of recesses and projections
   and said second connecting portion having a second set of recesses and projections, wherein the
   clip connects to said building component through said first and second sets of recesses,
10          an aperture located in at least one of said first connecting portion or said second
   connecting portion to enable securing of an article or articles to said clip.
            The articles are preferably secured to said clip through a fastening device that extends
   through said aperture and around said article or articles, said aperture being a slotted hole. The
   clip may further include a tab extending from said base portion at an angle of between 1 and 10
15 degrees, preferably about 5 degrees, with respect to the plane of the base portion.
            Preferably the tab has an aperture through which a fastener protrudes in order to affix the
   clip to the support structure such that, when affixed, the tab is substantially abutting against a
   surface of said support structure and a part of said base portion is not in contact with said support
   structure.
20          According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a method of attaching a
   building component to a support structure using a building clip according to the first aspect and
   securing one or more articles to said building clip, the method including:
            attaching at least one said building clip to the support structure;
                                                       3

            fitting the building component to the said at least one building clip;
            securing said one or more articles to the at least one building clip using a fastening device
    looped through said aperture.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
 5          A preferred embodiment of the invention will hereinafter be described, by way of
   example only, with reference to the Figures in which:
            Figure 1 is a perspective view from above of the clip;
            Figure 2 is a perspective view from above showing the clip attached to an elongate
   member and enabling cables to be supported using at least one aperture located in the clip;
10         Figure 3 is a perspective view from above of an alternative use of the clip where it is used
   to brace a stud wall frame of a structure, and
           Figure 4 is a perspective view of two of the clips shown in Figure 1 used to support a
   building product that spans between the clips.
   Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
15         Referring to Figure 1 there is shown a building clip 2 which is able to attach or mount an
   elongate member, such as a furring channel, to a support structure, such as a ceiling or a wall
   structure. The clip 2 has a base portion 4 and a pair of connecting portions 6 and 8 that extend
   orthogonally from a lower region of the base portion 4 and have a gap 5 between the connecting
   portions 6 and 8. The base portion 4 is generally rectangular in shape and has top edge 12, lower
20 edge 18, a first side edge 14 and a second side edge 16. The connecting portions 6 and 8 are
   integrally formed individually with the base portion 4. A fixing tab 10 extends from top edge 12
                                                      4

   of the base portion 4, generally at an angle of about 50 with respect to the plane of the base
   portion 4. The base portion 4 is generally rectangular bounded by top edge 12, side edges 14 and
    16 and lower or bottom edge 18.
            The connecting portion 6 has an aperture, in the form of an elongate slotted hole 24, and
 5 gripping means 20 in the form of alternating teeth 21 and recesses or grooves 23. The second
   connecting portion 8 also has an aperture, in the form of an elongate slotted hole 26, and
   gripping means 22 in the form of alternating teeth 25 and recesses or grooves 27. A projecting
   portion 36 extends outwardly from a lower region adjacent bottom edge 18 of the base portion 4.
   Tab 10 has an aperture 28 through which a securing means can protrude in order to secure the
10 clip 2 to a support structure, to be described in relation to Figure 2. Aperture 30 exists in the
   base portion 4 to also provide an option for securing the clip 2 to a support structure.
           Referring to Figure 2, this shows the clip 2 connected to flanges 48 and 46 of building
   component, in the form of a furring channel 44, where a pre-determined distance of the furring
   channel flanges 46, 48 from a support structure 42 is enabled through a series of recesses 23 and
15 27 of the clip 2 (see Figure 1). In this particular case the second recess from the front edge of the
   respective connecting portions 6 and 8 are chosen. The furring channel 44 fits to the clip 2 in a
   snug fit or a snap engagement fit in the respective recesses 23 and 27. Also shown in Figure 2 is
   slotted hole 24 being used to house articles, such that a fastening device such as a tie 60 can fit
   around the articles, such as cables 64 and 66, and be engaged in lock 62 to keep the cable 64 and
20 66 in a secured relative position to the furring channel 44. Other fastening devices can be used
   such as hook and loop material (Velcro) or cable ties. This avoids the situation where the cables
   64 and 66 are randomly distributed or situated within the wall or ceiling cavity. Furthermore it
   provides some knowledge to a tradesperson of the approximate location of such cables, that is,
   being next to a furring channel. It also provides a safer alternative to running the cables 64 and
                                                      5

   66 within the cavity of the furring channel 44, bounded by sides 50 and 52 and web 54, which is
   unsafe and a potential hazard due to fixing screws of the plaster board generally being inserted
   through web 54 of furring channel 44 and the possibility of such screws penetrating the
   sheathing of cables 64 and 66, or pipes in a similar location.
 5          With reference to Figure 3 there is shown an alternate use for the clip 2. In this situation
   it is used as a stud wall brace. The tab 10 is secured through a fastener 11 to the underneath or
   outward surface of the web 65 of wall stud 63. Slotted holes 24 and 26 of the connecting
   portions 6 and 8 respectively are used to receive fasteners 13 and 15 to secure the clip to
   structure 17. This provides bracing to the structure for the wall stud 63 and this can be done at
10 various positions along the length of the wall stud 63 as required.
                    With reference to Figure 4, two clips 2 are employed to support a separate
   building product 100 that spans between the two clips 2, with the fixing tab 101 on building
   product 100 being inserted into the slotted hole 24 on one clip 2, and the fixing tab 102 being
   inserted into the slotted hole 26 on the other clip 2. The building product 100 is used for affixing
15 materials with the wall cavity. The slotted holes 24 and 26 allow the fixing tabs 101 and 102 to
   accurately locate and positively fix the building product 100 without the need for additional
   fixings, such as screws or ties.
            In use typically a tradesperson would, with the embodiments shown in Figures 1 to 4,
   attach a series of clips 2 to the support structure 42 in an exact line, which can be plumb-lined if
20 this is vertical. Once the desired number and spacing of the clips is determined and these are
   attached to the support structure 42, the furring channel 44 is just clipped into each of the clips 2.
   The cables or additional service elements 64 and 66 are then secured through the tie 60 in the
   respective slotted hole 24 or alternatively slotted hole 26 of each of the clips 2.
                                                       6

    CLAIMS:
    1.      A building clip for connection to a building component to enable the building component
   to be secured to a support structure, the building clip including:
            a base portion;
 5          a first connecting portion and a second connecting portion each extending substantially
   orthogonally from said base portion and defining a gap therebetween to accommodate said
   building component; said first connecting portion having a first set of recesses and projections
   and said second connecting portion having a second set of recesses and projections, wherein the
   clip connects to said building component through said first and second sets of recesses,
10          an aperture located in at least one of said first connecting portion or said second
   connecting portion to enable securing of an article or articles to said clip.
   2.      A building clip according to claim 1 wherein said articles are secured to said clip through
   a fastening device that extends through said aperture and around said article or articles, said
   aperture being a slotted hole.
15 3.      A building clip according to claim 1 or claim 2 further including a tab extending from
   said base position at an angle of between 1 and 10 degrees, preferably about 5 degrees, with
   respect to the plane of the base portion.
   4.      A building clip according to claim 3 wherein said tab has an aperture through which a
   fastener protrudes in order to affix the clip to the support structure such that, when affixed, the
20 tab is substantially abutting against a surface of said support structure and a part of said base
   portion is not in contact with said support structure.
                                                       7

  5.       A method of attaching a building component to a support structure using a building clip
  according to any one of the preceding claims and securing one or more articles to said building
  clip, the method including:
           attaching at least one said building clip to the support structure;
5          fitting the building component to the said at least one building clip;
           securing said one or more articles to the at least one building clip using a fastening device
  looped through said aperture.
                                                      8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/3

