                                          Abstract
   Wire netting and method for producing a helix for a wire netting
   The invention is based on a wire netting (10a; 1Ob; 1Oc), in particular a safety net,
 5 with a plurality of helices (12a, 14a; 12b; 12c) which are braided with one another
   and at least one of which is manufactured of at least one single wire, a wire
   bundle, a wire strand, a wire rope and/or another longitudinal element (16a; 16b;
   16c) with at least one wire (18a; 18b; 18c) and which comprises at least one first
   leg (20a; 20b; 20c), at least one second leg (22a; 22b; 22c) and at least one
10 bending region (24a; 24b; 24c) connecting the first leg (20a; 20b; 20c) and the
   second leg (22a; 22b; 22c) to one another, wherein, in a front view perpendicularly
   to a main extension plane of the helix (12a; 12b; 12c), the first leg (20a; 20b; 20c)
   extends with at least one first gradient angle (26a; 26b; 26c) with respect to a
   longitudinal direction (28a; 28b; 28c) of the helix (12a; 12b; 12c).
15 It is proposed that, in a transverse view in parallel to the main extension plane of
   the helix (12a; 12b; 12c) and perpendicularly to the longitudinal direction (28a;
   28b; 28c) of the helix (12a; 12b; 12c), the bending region (24a; 24b; 24c) extends
   at least section-wise with a second gradient angle (30a; 30b; 30c) with respect to
   the longitudinal direction (28a; 28b; 28c) of the helix (12a; 12b; 12c), wherein the
20 second gradient angle (30a; 30b; 30c) differs from the first gradient angle (26a;
   26b; 26c).
   (Fig. 1)

                                                     1
WIRE NETTING AND METHOD FOR PRODUCING A HELIX FOR A
WIRE NETTING
State of the art
The invention relates to a wire netting and to a method for producing a wire netting.
From the state of the art wire nettings are known which are made of helices braided with one
another. The helices are usually bent by a braiding knife and braided into a netting.
It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome one or more disadvantages of
known wire netting, or at least to provide a useful alternative.
For example, it would be desirable to provide a generic wire netting with advantageous
characteristics regarding load-bearing capacity.
Summary of the invention
In one aspect of the invention, which may be considered on its own or in combination with at
least one aspect, in particular in combination with one aspect, in particular in combination with
any number of the remaining aspects of the invention, a wire netting, such as a safety net, is
proposed, with a plurality of helices which are braided with one another, and at least one of
which is manufactured of at least one single wire, a wire bundle, a wire strand, a wire rope
and/or other longitudinal element with at least one wire, and which comprises at least one first
leg, at least one second leg and at least one bending region connecting the first leg and the
second leg to one another, wherein, in a front view perpendicularly to a main extension plane of
the helix, the first leg extends featuring at least one first gradient angle with respect to a
longitudinal direction of the helix, wherein, in a transverse view in parallel to the main extension
plane of the helix and perpendicularly to the longitudinal direction of the helix, the bending
region extends at least section-wise with a second gradient angle with respect to the longitudinal
direction of the helix, wherein the second gradient angle differs from the first gradient angle, in
particular beyond a range of manufacturing tolerances, wherein in the transverse view, the
bending region follows at least section-wise an at least approximately straight contour. In this
way a high load-bearing capacity is advantageously achievable. Moreover a high degree of
safety is achievable. It is in particular possible to make a wire netting with a high degree of

                                                    2
strength, in particular tensile strength, available. Advantageously a geometry of helices and/or
meshes of a netting is adaptable to a strain that is to be expected. Beyond this a load-bearing
capacity of intersection points and/or node points in a netting may be increased. Advantageously
different regions of a helix of a wire netting may be optimized individually and load
specifically. This moreover advantageously allows providing a wire netting with a high degree
of rigidity, in particular transversely to the netting and/or along the netting. Furthermore
mechanical properties of a wire netting may be adapted flexibly and/or according to
requirements.
The invention moreover concerns a method for manufacturing a helix for a wire netting, in
particular for a safety net, in particular a method for producing a wire netting, in particular a
safety net, wherein the helix is manufactured of at least one single wire, of a wire bundle, of a
wire strand, of a wire rope and/or of another longitudinal element with at least one wire, and
wherein at least one first leg, at least one second leg and at least one bending region of the helix
connecting the first leg and the second leg to one another are produced by way of bending, as a
result of which, in a first view perpendicularly to the main extension plane of the helix, the first
leg and/or the second leg extends at least with a first gradient angle with respect to a
longitudinal direction of the helix. It is proposed that the helix is produced by bending in such a
way that, in a second view in parallel to the main extension plane of the helix and
perpendicularly to the longitudinal direction of the helix, the bending region extends at least
section-wise with a second gradient angle with respect to the longitudinal direction of the helix
that differs from the first gradient angle, and such that, in the transverse view, the bending
region follows at least section-wise an at least approximately straight contour. In this way a high
load-bearing capacity is advantageously achievable. Moreover a high degree of safety is
achievable. It is in particular possible to make a wire netting with a high degree of strength, in
particular tensile strength, available. Advantageously a geometry of helices and/or meshes of a
netting is adaptable to a strain that is to be expected. Beyond this a load-bearing capacity of
intersection points and/or node points in a netting may be increased. Advantageously different
regions of a helix of a wire netting may be optimized individually and load-specifically. This
moreover advantageously allows providing a wire netting with a high degree of rigidity, in
particular transversely to the netting and/or along the netting. Furthermore mechanical
properties of a wire netting may be adapted flexibly and/or according to requirements.

                                                    3
In a further aspect of the invention, which may be considered on its own or in combination with
at least one aspect, in particular in combination with one aspect, in particular in combination
with any number of the remaining aspects of the invention, a wire netting, in particular a safety
net, is proposed, with a plurality of helices which are braided with one another and at least one
of which is manufactured of at least one single wire, of a wire bundle, of a wire strand, of a wire
rope and/or of another longitudinal element with at least one wire and which comprises at least
one first leg, at least one second leg and at least one bending region wherein, in a longitudinal
view in parallel to a longitudinal direction of the helix, the bending region comprises at least one
bending zone with a bending curvature as well as at least one first transition zone which is
connected to the first leg and has a first transition curvature that differs from the bending
curvature. This allows achieving advantageous characteristics regarding a load-bearing capacity.
Moreover a high degree of safety is achievable. It is in particular possible to make a wire netting
with a high degree of strength, in particular tensile strength, available. Advantageously a
geometry of helices and/or meshes of a netting is adaptable to a strain that is to be expected.
Advantageously different regions of a helix of a wire netting may be optimized individually and
load-specifically. This

                                              - 4
   moreover advantageously allows providing a wire netting with a high degree of
   rigidity, in particular transversely to the netting and/or along the netting.
   Furthermore mechanical properties of a wire netting may be adapted flexibly
   and/or according to requirements. Beyond this a behavior of a bending region in
 5 case of a load is optimizable. Moreover a large parameter space may be rendered
   available regarding a bending region geometry.
   The invention further concerns a method for producing a helix for a wire netting, in
   particular a safety net, in particular a method for producing a wire netting, in
   particular a safety net, wherein the helix is manufactured of at least one single
10 wire, of a wire bundle, of a wire strand, of a wire rope and/or of another
   longitudinal element with at least one wire, and wherein at least one first leg, at
   least one second leg and at least one bending region of the helix connecting the
   first leg and the second leg to one another are produced by way of bending. It is
   proposed that the helix is produced by bending such, in a longitudinal view in
15 parallel to a longitudinal direction of the helix, the bending region comprises at
   least one bending zone with a bending curvature and comprises at least one first
   transition zone that is connected to the first leg and has a first transition curvature
   differing from the bending curvature. This allows achieving advantageous
   characteristics regarding a load-bearing capacity. Moreover a high degree of
20 safety is achievable. It is in particular possible to make a wire netting with a high
   degree of strength, in particular tensile strength, available. Advantageously a
   geometry of helices and/or meshes of a netting is adaptable to a strain that is to be
   expected. Advantageously different regions of a helix of a wire netting may be
   optimized individually and load-specifically. This moreover advantageously allows
25 providing a wire netting with a high degree of hardness, in particular transversely
   to the netting and/or along the netting. Furthermore mechanical properties of a
   wire netting may be adapted flexibly and/or according to requirements. Beyond
   this a behavior of a bending region in case of a load is optimizable. Moreover a
   large parameter space may be rendered available regarding a bending region
30 geometry.

                                             - 5
   In a further aspect of the invention, which may be considered on its own or in
   combination with at least one aspect, in particular in combination with one aspect,
   in particular in combination with any number of the remaining aspects of the
   invention, a wire netting, in particular a safety net, is proposed, with a plurality of
 5 helices which are braided with one another and at least one of which is
   manufactured of at least one single wire, of a wire bundle, of a wire strand, of a
   wire rope and/or of another longitudinal element with at least one wire, which is in
   particular made of a high-tensile steel wherein, in a reverse bend test, the wire is
   bendable in opposite directions, by at least 900 respectively, about at least one
10 bending cylinder having a diameter of maximally 2 d, at least M times without
   breaking, wherein M may be determined (by rounding down if applicable) to be
   C-R-0 5 d-0 5 and wherein a diameter d of the wire is given in mm, R is a tensile
   strength of the wire in N mm- 2 and C is a factor of at least 400 N0 5 mm    5
                                                                                  . This
   allows achieving advantageous characteristics regarding processability and/or
15 manufacturability. Moreover a robust wire netting may be made available. It is
   furthermore possible to achieve a high degree of safety. In particular, a wire
   netting may be rendered available featuring a high strength, in particular tensile
   strength. Advantageously a wire netting with balanced characteristics regarding
   hardness and tensile strength may be made available. Furthermore, a wire
20 breakage is advantageously avoidable in a production of wire nettings. In
   particular, in a production of wire nettings test runs may advantageously be
   dispensed with, at least to a large extent. Beyond this it is possible to simply
   and/or quickly and/or reliably identify wires suitable for a wire netting with a high
   load-bearing capacity. In particular, a selection method for a suitable wire may be
25 provided which is significantly more rigorous and/or more load-specific as
   compared to a reverse bend test according to ISO 7801.
   The invention moreover concerns a method for identifying a suitable wire, in
   particular a wire made of a high-tensile steel, for a wire netting, in particular for a
   safety net, with a plurality of helices which are braided with one another, wherein
30 at least one of the helices is to be manufactured of at least one single wire, a wire

                                               - 6
   bundle, a wire strand, a wire rope and/or another longitudinal element with a
   suitable wire. It is proposed that the wire is identified as suitable if in a reverse
   bend test a test piece of the wire is bendable in opposite directions, by at least 900
   respectively, about a bending cylinder having a diameter of maximally 2 d, at least
 5 M times without breaking, wherein M may be determined (by rounding down if
                              5
   applicable) to be C-R-       d-0 5
                                      and wherein a diameter d of the wire is given in mm,
   R is a tensile strength of the wire in N mm-2 and C is a factor of at least
   400 N0 5 mm     5
                     . This allows achieving advantageous properties regarding a load
   bearing capacity. It is furthermore possible to achieve a high degree of safety. In
10 particular, a wire netting may be rendered available featuring a high strength, in
   particular tensile strength. Advantageously a wire netting with balanced
   characteristics regarding rigidity and tensile strength may be made available.
   Moreover wire breakage is advantageously avoidable in a production of wire
   nettings. In particular, in a production of wire nettings test runs may
15 advantageously be dispensed with, at least to a large extent. Beyond this it is
   possible to identify wires suitable for a wire netting with a high load-bearing
   capacity simply and/or quickly and/or reliably.
   In another aspect of the invention, which may be considered on its own or in
   combination with at least one aspect, in particular in combination with one aspect,
20 in particular in combination with any number of the remaining aspects of the
   invention, a wire netting, in particular a safety net, is proposed, with a plurality of
   helices which are braided with one another and at least one of which is
   manufactured of at least one single wire, of a wire bundle, of a wire strand, of a
   wire rope and/or of another longitudinal element with at least one wire which is
25 made of a high-tensile steel and which comprises a plurality of legs, a plurality of
   bending regions respectively connecting two legs, and which has a transverse
   extension along a frontal direction, perpendicularly to a main extension plane of
   the helix, wherein, in a press test between parallel plates comprising a pressing by
   moving the plates along a press path in parallel to the frontal direction, a test piece
30 of the helix, taken from the helix and comprising at least five legs and at least four

                                            - 7
   bending regions, shows a spring characteristic curve which has in a press path
   force diagram, starting from a start of the press path, a first partial characteristic
   curve running at least approximately linearly or running linearly and having a first
   gradient. The press path force diagram is herein in particular a path-force-diagram.
 5 This allows achieving advantageous characteristics regarding a load-bearing
   capacity. Moreover a high degree of safety is achievable. It is in particular possible
   to provide a wire netting with a high strength, in particular a high tensile strength.
   Advantageously a wire netting may be rendered available with balanced properties
   regarding a hardness as well as a tensile strength. Moreover a wire netting with a
10 high level of robustness regarding forces acting transversely to the netting, in
   particular forces resulting from impacting objects, may be rendered available.
   Beyond this a suitability of a netting may be determined simply and/or quickly
   and/or reliably.
   In a further aspect of the invention, which may be considered on its own or in
15 combination with at least one aspect, in particular in combination with one aspect,
   in particular in combination with any number of the remaining aspects of the
   invention, a bending device for producing a wire netting, in particular a safety net,
   is proposed, which comprises a plurality of helices which are braided with one
   another and at least one of which is manufactured of at least one helix blank,
20 namely a single wire, a wire bundle, a wire strand, a wire rope and/or another
   longitudinal element with at least one wire, with a bending unit comprising at least
   one bending mandrel and at least one bending table that is configured for bending
   the helix blank about the bending mandrel and is supported in a manner entirely
   circulating about the bending mandrel, with a feed unit configured for conveying
25 the helix blank along a feed axis in a feed direction, and with a geometry adjusting
   unit which is configured for adjusting a geometry of the helix. In this way
   advantageous characteristics are achievable regarding a production. In particular,
   regarding a production of a wire netting a large parameter space may be made
   available. Moreover, a geometry of helices and/or meshes of a wire netting may be
30 adapted variably and/or according to requirements. Beyond this, a quick and/or

                                             - 8
   reliable production may be facilitated. It is furthermore possible to make bending
   device available that is adjustable flexibly and/or comprehensively. In addition a
   high production throughput is achievable. Moreover, in a bending of a helix of a
   wire netting, slowing down of moving parts, which in particular means a high time
 5 and/or energy input, may be dispensed with to a large extent. A low-maintenance
   bending unit may be provided and/or downtimes, e.g. due to maintenance, may be
   reduced.
   "Configured" is in particular to mean specifically programmed, designed and/or
   equipped. By an object being configured for a certain function is in particular to be
10 understood that the object fulfills and/or implements said certain function in at least
   one application state and/or operating state. By a method being "configured" for a
   purpose is in particular to be understood that the method comprises at least one
   method step that is specifically directed to the purpose and/or that the method is
   directly focused on the purpose and/or that the method serves for fulfilling the
15 purpose and is at least partly optimized therefor. By a method step being
   "configured" for a purpose is in particular to be understood that the method step is
   specifically aimed at the purpose and/or that the method step is directly aimed at
   the purpose and/or that the method step serves for fulfilling the purpose and is at
   least partly optimized for said fulfillment.
20 Advantageously it is possible to provide a wire netting that has a good load
   bearing capacity and/or is producible in such a way that it is adapted to a
   requirement profile, and/or to provide a method for its production that is flexibly
   adaptable and/or reliable. Advantageously mechanical properties of bending
   regions and/or connection points and/or legs and/or netting helices may be
25 optimized and/or adapted independently as well as synergistically. Beyond this, a
   method for quality control is provided that is easily applicable and/or yields reliable
   results.
   In particular, the helix is manufactured from a longitudinal element, namely a
   single wire, a wire bundle, a wire strand, a wire rope and/or another longitudinal

                                            - 9
   element comprising at least the wire. By a "wire" is in particular, in this context, a
   body to be understood which is elongate and/or thin and/or at bendable at least
   machine-wise and/or flexible. Advantageously the wire has along its longitudinal
   direction an at least substantially constant cross section, which is in particular
 5 circle-shaped or elliptic. Especially advantageously the wire is embodied as a
   round wire. It is however also conceivable that the wire is embodied, at least
   section-wise or completely, as a flat wire, a four-edge wire, a polygonal wire and/or
   a profile wire. The wire may be implemented, for example, at least partly or
   completely of metal, in particular a metal alloy, and/or of an organic and/or
10 inorganic synthetic material and/or of a composite material and/or of an inorganic
   non-metallic material and/or of a ceramic material. It is conceivable, for example,
   that the wire is implemented as a polymer wire or as a synthetic wire. In particular,
   the wire may be embodied as a composite wire, e.g. as a metal-organic composite
   wire and/or as a metal-inorganic composite wire and/or as a metal-polymer
15 composite wire and/or as a metal-metal composite wire or the like. It is in particular
   conceivable that the wire comprises at least two different materials which are in
   particular arranged with respect to one another following a composite geometry
   and/or are at least partly mixed up with each other. Advantageously the wire is
   embodied as a metal wire, in particular as a steel wire, in particular as a stainless
20 steel wire. If the helix comprises a plurality of wires, these are preferably identical.
   It is however also conceivable that the helix comprises a plurality of wires which
   differ from one another regarding their materials and/or diameters and/or cross
   sections. Preferentially the wire has an in particular corrosion-resistant coating
   and/or cladding, e.g. a zinc coating and/or an aluminum-zinc coating and/or a
25 plastic coating and/or a PET coating and/or a metal oxide coating and/or a ceramic
   coating or the like.
   Advantageously the transverse extension of the helix is greater, in particular
   considerably greater than a diameter of the wire and/or than a diameter of the
   longitudinal element which the helix is made of. Depending on an application and
30 in particular depending on a desired load-bearing capacity and/or depending on

                                               - 10
   desired spring characteristic curves of the wire netting, in particular in a frontal
   direction, the transverse extension may be, for example, twice or three times or
   five times or ten times or twenty times as great as the diameter of the longitudinal
   element, wherein values in between or smaller values or greater values are also
 5 conceivable. Likewise, depending on a utilization, the wire may have a diameter
   of, for example, approximately 1 mm, approximately 2 mm, approximately 3 mm,
   approximately 4 mm, approximately 5 mm, approximately 6 mm, approximately
   7 mm or even more or even less or a diameter having a value in between. Larger
   diameters, in particular considerably larger diameters are also conceivable if the
10 longitudinal element comprises a plurality of components, in particular a plurality of
   wires, e.g. in a case of a wire rope, or a wire strand, or a wire bundle, or the like.
   In particular, the wire netting is implemented as a slope protection, as a safety
   fence, as a catch fence, as a rock-fall protection net, as a barrier fence, as a fish
   farming net, as a net protecting from predatory animals, as an enclosure fence, as
15 a tunnel safeguarding, as a landslide protection, as a motor sport protection fence,
   as a road fence, as an avalanche protection or the like. In particular due to its high
   strength and/or load-bearing capacity, applications as a covering and/or as a
   cladding, e.g. of power plants, factory buildings, residential or other buildings, as
   an explosion protection, as a bullet protection, as a screening against flying
20 objects, as a catch net, as a ram protection or the like are also conceivable. The
   wire netting may, for example, be laid out and/or arranged and/or mounted
   horizontally or vertically or obliquely, in particular with respect to a ground. In
   particular, the wire netting is embodied planar. Advantageously the wire netting is
   structured regularly and/or in at least one direction periodically. Preferentially the
25 wire netting is capable of being rolled up and/or rolled out, in particular about an
   axis which extends in parallel to the main extension direction of the helix. In
   particular, a roll that is rolled up of the wire netting may be rolled out in a direction
   that is perpendicular to the main extension direction of the helix.
   The helix is preferably embodied spiral-shaped. In particular, the helix is embodied
30 as a flattened spiral. Preferably a plurality of bending regions and a plurality of legs

                                              - 11
   implement the helix, wherein advantageously bending regions are respectively
   connected to legs directly. Advantageously a transverse extension is considerably
   smaller than a length of the first leg. In particular, the helix advantageously has
   along its contour an at least substantially constant diameter and/or cross section,
 5 or a constant diameter and/or cross section. Especially preferentially the helix
   comprises a plurality of legs, which are advantageously implemented at least
   substantially identically or identically. Advantageously the helix comprises a
   plurality of bending regions, which respectively connect two neighboring legs and
   which are preferably embodied at least substantially identically or identically.
10 Preferably the helix is implemented of one single longitudinal element, in particular
   only of the longitudinal element, e.g. of the wire or of a wire strand or of a wire
   rope or of a wire bundle or the like. By "at least substantially identical" objects is in
   particular to be understood, in this context, that the objects are structured in such
   a way that they are respectively capable of fulfilling a shared function and differ
15 from one another structurally, except for manufacturing tolerances, if at all, by
   individual elements which are not essential for the shared function. Preferably "at
   least substantially identical" is to mean identical except for manufacturing
   tolerances and/or in the scope of manufacture-technological possibilities. An "at
   least substantially constant value" is in particular to mean, in this context, a value
20 varying by maximally 20 %, advantageously by no more than 15 %, especially
   advantageously by maximally 10 %, preferably by no more than 5 %, preferentially
   by maximally 3 % and particularly preferably by maximally 2 % or even maximally
   1 %. By an object having an "at least substantially constant cross section" is in
   particular to be understood that, for any first cross section of the object along at
25 least one direction and any second cross section of the object along the direction,
   a minimum surface area of a difference surface resulting from one of the cross
   sections being laid over the other one is maximally 20 %, advantageously
   maximally 10 % and especially advantageously no more than 5 % of the surface
   area of the larger one of the two cross sections.

                                             - 12
   Preferentially the longitudinal direction of the helix is arranged at least substantially
   parallel or parallel to a main extension direction of the helix. Preferentially the helix
   has a longitudinal axis extending in parallel to the longitudinal direction of the helix.
   Preferably the main extension plane of the helix is arranged at least substantially
 5 parallel to a main extension plane of the wire netting, at least in a state when the
   wire netting is laid out and/or rolled out in a planar fashion, which may in particular
   differ from an installed state of the wire netting. By a "main extension direction" of
   an object is herein in particular a direction to be understood which extends in
   parallel to a largest edge of a smallest imaginary rectangular cuboid which just still
10 encloses the object. By "at least substantially parallel" is here in particular an
   orientation of a direction with respect to a reference direction, in particular in a
   plane, to be understood, wherein the direction deviates from the reference
   direction in particular by less than 80, advantageously by less than 50 and
   especially advantageously by less than 2c. By a "main extension plane" of an
15 object is in particular a plane to be understood which is parallel to a largest side
   surface of a smallest imaginary rectangular cuboid just still completely enclosing
   the object, and which in particular extends through the center of the rectangular
   cuboid.
   The wire netting preferably comprises a plurality of or several helices, in particular
20 identically implemented helices. It is also conceivable that the wire netting is
   implemented of a plurality of different helices. Advantageously the helices are
   interconnected. In particular, neighboring helices are arranged in such a way that
   their longitudinal directions extend in parallel. Preferably respectively one helix is
   braided and/or twisted in with two neighboring helices. In particular, the wire
25 netting is producible by a helix being twisted into a pre-netting, a further helix
   being twisted into said twisted-in helix, another helix being then twisted into said
   further twisted-in helix, and so forth. Advantageously neighboring helices are
   connected via their bending regions. Especially advantageously respectively two
   bending regions of different helices connected to each other, in particular hooked
30 in with one another. In particular, the helices of the wire netting have the same

                                              - 13
   direction of rotation. Advantageously respectively two helices are knotted with one
   another, in particular at a respective first one of their ends and/or at a respective
   second one of their ends situated opposite the first ends.
   Preferentially the wire netting comprises at least one mesh. Especially
 5 preferentially the mesh is delimited by four legs, respectively two of which belong
   to the same helix. Advantageously the helix delimits the mesh from at least one
   side, in particular from two sides. In particular, the mesh is quadrangular, in
   particular rhomboid-shaped. Advantageously the mesh is symmetrical to a
   symmetry axis extending in parallel to the longitudinal direction of the helix and/or
10 symmetrical to a symmetry axis extending perpendicularly to the longitudinal
   direction of the helix. Preferably the mesh has a first interior angle. Especially
   preferentially the first interior angle has an absolute value that is twice as large as
   the absolute value of the first gradient angle. In particular, the first interior angle is
   composed of two gradient angles of neighboring helices. Advantageously the
15 longitudinal axis of the helix is an angle bisector of the first angle. Preferentially the
   mesh features a second interior angle that is arranged adjacently to the first
   interior angle. In particular, a sum of half the absolute value of the second interior
   angle and an absolute value of the gradient angle is at least substantially or
   precisely 900. Advantageously an angle bisector of the second interior angle is
20 oriented perpendicularly to the longitudinal axis of the helix. Especially
   advantageously the mesh has a third interior angle that is arranged opposite the
   first interior angle. In particular, the absolute value of the third interior angle is
   identical to the absolute value of the first interior angle. Advantageously the mesh
   has a fourth interior angle that is arranged opposite the second interior angle. In
25 particular, the absolute value of the fourth interior angle is identical to the absolute
   value of the second interior angle. Advantageously the wire netting comprises a
   plurality of meshes, which are in particular at least substantially identical or
   identical. Particularly advantageously respectively two neighboring helices
   implement a plurality of meshes. Preferably the first leg and the second leg form
30 the mesh together with a further first leg and a further second leg of a further helix

                                              - 14
   that is arranged adjacently to the helix. "At least substantially" is in particular to
   mean, in this context, that a deviation from a given value is in particular less than
   15 %, preferably less than 10 % and especially preferentially less than 5 % of the
   given value.
 5 The first gradient angle is advantageously an angle included by a longitudinal axis
   of the first leg and the longitudinal axis of the helix, in particular in a front view.
   Especially advantageously the second gradient angle is an angle included by a
   main extension direction of the bending region and the longitudinal axis of the
   helix, in particular in a transverse view.
10 The bending zone in particular comprises at least 25 %, advantageously at least
   50 %, especially advantageously no less than 75 % and preferably at least 85 % of
   the bending region.
   Preferentially the first leg is connected to the bending region, in particular to the
   first transition zone, integrally. Especially preferentially the second leg is
15 connected to the bending region integrally. Advantageously the first transition zone
   is connected to the bending zone integrally. Particularly preferably the helix is
   embodied in a one-part implementation. In particular, a main extension plane of
   the bending region differs from a main extension plane of the first transition zone.
   It is however also conceivable that the bending region and the first transition zone
20 share a main extension plane. "Integrally" is in particular to mean connected at
   least by substance-to-substance bond, e.g. by a welding process, an adhesive
   bonding process, an injection-molding process and/or another process that is
   deemed expedient by someone skilled in the art, and/or advantageously formed in
   one piece, e.g. by manufacturing from one cast and/or by manufacturing in a one
25 component or multi-component injection molding procedure, and advantageously
   from a single blank. If the helix is implemented of a longitudinal element with a
   plurality of components, e.g. a strand and/or a wire rope and/or a wire bundle,
   "integrally" is in particular to mean, in this context, that component wires and/or
   other components of the longitudinal element have no interruption along a contour

                                             - 15
   of the helix. The helix is in particular manufactured of a single longitudinal element
   or of a single longitudinal-element blank.
   In the reverse bend test the wire is preferably bent around two opposite-situated,
   identically implemented bending cylinders. Advantageously the bending cylinders
 5 are configured to execute the reverse bend test without deformation and/or non
   destructively.
   Advantageously the test piece of the helix is embodied in a one-part
   implementation. The test piece of the helix preferably has exactly four bending
   regions. Particularly preferably the test piece of the helix has exactly five legs. In
10 particular, the parallel plates are configured to carry out the press test
   deformation-free and/or non-destructively. In particular, in pressing a first plate of
   the two parallel plates is moved towards a second plate of the two parallel plates
   along the press path. In particular, in pressing the first plate moves with a speed of
   no less than 10 pm s-1, advantageously at least 50 pm s-1, especially
15 advantageously no less than 100 pm s-1, preferably approximately 117 pm s-1 with
   respect to the second plate. In particular, the test piece of the helix is irreversibly
   deformed in the press test. "Extending at least approximately linearly" is in
   particular to mean, in this context, extending free of jumps and/or with an at least
   substantially constant gradient.
20 The feed unit advantageously comprises at least one feed element, which is in
   particular driven and which in feeding exerts a feed force onto the helix blank. The
   feed element is preferably embodied as a feed roll. Especially advantageously the
   feed unit comprises a plurality of feed elements, wherein in particular at least one
   of the feed elements, advantageously several, especially advantageously all of the
25 feed elements are driven, and wherein in the forward-feeding the helix blank is
   conveyed between the feed elements.
   In particular, the geometry adjusting unit is configured to adjust a curvature of the
   bending region, in particular of the bending zone and/or of the first transition zone,
   and/or a length of the first leg and/or a length of the second leg and/or the

                                             - 16
   transverse extension of the helix and/or the first gradient angle and/or the second
   gradient angle and/or a geometry of the mesh. Advantageously the bending device
   is configured to produce the helix according to the invention. In particular, the
   bending device is configured to produce the wire netting according to the
 5 invention.
   The bending device advantageously comprises a braiding unit, which is configured
   to braid the helix into a pre-netting, in particular a pre-netting implemented of a
   plurality of helices which are at least substantially identical or identical to the helix.
   Preferably the bending mandrel is supported rotatably about a longitudinal axis of
10 the bending mandrel. In particular, the bending mandrel is driven. Advantageously
   the bending device, in particular the bending unit, comprises at least one drive unit
   for the bending mandrel, which rotates the bending mandrel about its longitudinal
   axis. Preferably the bending device, in particular the bending unit, comprises at
   least one drive unit for the bending table, which is configured to drive the bending
15 table about the bending mandrel in circulating fashion. The bending device
   preferably comprises a single drive unit, which is connected to driven and/or
   moved components of the bending device via suitable belts, wheels,
   transmissions, etc. and/or is configured to drive said driven and/or moved
   components.
20 In a further implementation of the invention it is proposed that the wire is produced
   at least partially, in particular completely, irrespective from a coating, of a high
   tensile steel. The wire is preferably a high-tensile steel wire. For example, the
   high-tensile steel may be spring steel and/or wire steel and/or a steel suitable for
   wire ropes. In particular, the wire has a tensile strength of at least 800 N mm-2
25 advantageously no less than 1000 N mm-2 , especially advantageously at least
   1200 N mm- 2 , preferably no less than 1400 N mm- 2 and particularly preferably at
   least 1600 N mm- 2 , in particular a tensile strength of approximately 1770 N mm- 2 or
   approximately 1960 N mm- 2 . It is also conceivable that the wire has an even higher
   tensile strength, e.g. a tensile strength of at least 2000 N mm-2, or of no less than

                                              - 17
   2200 N mm-2, or even at least 2400 N mm-2. This allows achieving a high load
   bearing capacity, in particular a high tensile strength and/or a high rigidity
   transversely to the netting. Moreover advantageous bending characteristics are
   achievable.
 5 In an advantageous implementation of the invention it is proposed that the second
   gradient angle differs from the first gradient angle by at least 2.50, preferably by no
   less than 50, advantageously by at least 100, especially advantageously by no less
   than 150, preferably by no less than 200, particularly preferably by at least 250.
   This allows application-specific optimizing of a geometry of connecting points.
10 In a particularly advantageous implementation of the invention it is proposed that
   the second gradient angle has a value between 25' and 650, advantageously
   between 400 and 500. In particular, the second gradient angle is at least 250,
   advantageously no less than 300, especially advantageously at least 350 and
   preferably no less than 400, and/or maximally 65', advantageously no more than
15 600, especially advantageously no more than 550 and preferably maximally 500. In
   particular, the second gradient angle is at least substantially 450, in particular
   precisely 450. Particularly preferably the bending regions of the helix of the netting
   feature a second gradient angle of approximately 450. This allows achieving a
   geometry of a bending region which has a high load-bearing capacity and/or is
20 advantageously connectable to a further bending region.
   Beyond this it is proposed that in a transverse view the bending region, in
   particular the bending zone, follows at least section-wise an at least approximately
   straight contour, in particular a straight contour. "At least approximately straight" is
   in particular to mean, in this context, straight, in particular linear, in the range of
25 manufacturing tolerances. Preferably, in the transverse view a section of the
   bending region follows the approximately straight contour or straight contour, said
   section comprising at least 50 %, advantageously at least 75 % and especially
   advantageously at least 85 % of the bending region. Advantageously the bending
   region is in the section, in particular in a proximity of the bending region, curved in

                                             - 18
   a plane which is arranged in parallel to the approximately straight contour of the
   bending region. Preferably, in the front view the approximately straight contour
   extends at least substantially parallel or parallel to the longitudinal direction of the
   helix. This allows providing a bending region having a high tensile strength and/or
 5 a high flexural rigidity. Furthermore, in this way a geometry may be rendered
   available which is advantageous regarding a connection of bending regions of
   different helices.
   It is also proposed that, in the transverse view, the helix follows at least section
   wise a stepped course, in particular an obliquely-stepped course. Preferably, in the
10 transverse view the first leg, the bending region and the second leg implement the
   stepped course, wherein the bending region or at least the approximately straight
   contour of the bending region includes an angle with the first leg and/or the second
   leg corresponds to the second gradient angle.
   A high rigidity of a wire netting transversely to its surface is achievable if the first
15 leg and/or the second leg at least section-wise follows a straight contour.
   Advantageously the first leg and the second leg form straight sides of a mesh.
   Especially advantageously the entire first leg and/or the entire second leg is
   embodied straight. In particular, the first leg and/or the second leg has a length of
   at least 1 cm, advantageously at least 2 cm, especially advantageously at least
20 3 cm, preferably no less than 5 cm and particularly preferably at least 7 cm. The
   first leg and the second leg may however also have any other lengths, in particular
   considerably greater lengths. The first leg and/or the second leg may, for example,
   have a length of no less than 10 cm or at least 15 cm or no less than 20 cm or at
   least 25 cm or an even greater length, in particular if the helix is embodied of a
25 wire strand, a wire rope, a wire bundle or the like.
   In another implementation of the invention it is proposed that the first leg extends
   at least section-wise in a first plane and the second leg extends at least section
   wise in a second plane that is parallel to the first plane. In particular, at least two
   neighboring legs of the helix extend in parallel planes. Advantageously, in the

                                               - 19
   transverse view the first leg extends in parallel to the second leg. The first leg and
   the further first leg preferably extend in the first plane and/or the second leg and/or
   the further second leg extend in the second plane. Preferably said first plane
   defines a front side of the wire netting and/or the second plane defines a rear side
 5 of the wire netting, or vice versa. This allows rendering a wire netting with a
   double-faced and/or double-walled structure available. Preferably in this way
   forces acting transversely to the netting may be absorbed effectively, involving a
   minimum deformation of the netting.
   The further helix in particular comprises at least one further bending region, in a
10 proximity of which the helix and the further helix intersect. Preferably the first
   bending region is connected, in particular hooked, with the further bending region.
   In particular, the further bending region connects the further first leg and the
   further second leg. The first leg preferably extends at least substantially parallel or
   parallel to the further first leg. Particularly preferably the second leg extends at
15 least substantially parallel or parallel to the further second leg.
   In an advantageous implementation of the invention it is proposed that the first
   helix and the second helix intersect perpendicularly in a proximity of the further
   bending region. In particular, the second gradient angle is 450 and an analogously
   defined further second gradient angle of the further bending region is also 450.
20 Preferably bending regions of the wire netting which are hooked with one another
   respectively intersect perpendicularly. In this way a high tensile strength of a
   connection between bending regions is achievable, in particular due to a direct
   force introduction and/or force transmission in intersection points. Furthermore,
   this allows maximizing a contact surface between hooked bending regions.
25 It is moreover proposed that the second gradient angle is smaller than the first
   gradient angle, in particular in case the first gradient angle is larger than 450.
   Alternatively it is proposed that the second gradient angle is larger than the first
   gradient angle, in particular in case the first gradient angle is smaller than 450.
   Preferably the second gradient angle is independent from the first gradient angle

                                             - 20
   and is in particular advantageously exactly 450, as has been mentioned above. In
   case of differently embodied bending regions being hooked with one another, the
   second gradient angles of the respective bending regions are advantageously
   chosen in such a way that the bending regions intersect perpendicularly. This
 5 allows rendering available connecting points featuring a high load-bearing
   capacity, independently from a mesh geometry.
   It is further proposed that the first gradient angle is larger than 450,
   advantageously larger than 500, especially advantageously larger than 550 and
   preferably larger than 600, resulting in particular in narrow meshes being
10 implemented. In particular, the first interior angle of the mesh is in particular
   considerably greater than the second interior angle of the mesh. In this way a high
   tensile strength of a netting is achievable, in particular perpendicularly to a
   longitudinal direction of netting helices.
   It is however also conceivable that the first gradient angle is smaller than 450,
15 advantageously smaller than 400, especially advantageously smaller than 350 and
   preferably smaller than 300, resulting in particular in wide meshes being
   implemented. In particular, the first interior angle of the mesh is in particular
   considerably smaller than the second interior angle of the mesh. In this way a high
   tensile strength of a netting is achievable, in particular in parallel to a longitudinal
20 direction of netting helices. Moreover it is in this way possible to render a wire
   netting available for a slope protection of the like, which may be rolled out
   transversely to a slope, thus advantageously allowing quick installation for narrow
   areas that are to be secured.
   In a preferred embodiment of the invention it is proposed that, in the longitudinal
25 view, the bending region comprises at least one second transition zone which is
   connected to the second leg and has a second transition curvature differing from
   the bending curvature. Advantageously the first transition zone, the second
   transition zone and the bending zone together form the bending region. In
   particular, the bending region is implemented of the first transition zone, the

                                            - 21
   second transition zone and the bending zone. Preferably the second transition
   zone is connected to the bending region in a one-part implementation. Especially
   preferentially the second leg is connected to the second transition zone, in
   particular in a one-part implementation. Preferably the helix is not curved, except
 5 for knots and bending regions. This allows rendering a helix geometry available
   which is variable and is adaptable to a requirement regarding a variety of
   parameters.
   In a particularly preferred implementation of the invention it is proposed that the
   first transition curvature and the second transition curvature are identical.
10 Advantageously the first transition zone and the second transition zone
   respectively comprise an identical portion of the bending region. This preferably
   allows rendering a wire netting available, the front side and rear side of which may
   be used in an exchangeable fashion.
   It is furthermore proposed that, in the longitudinal view, the first transition zone and
15 the second transition zone are embodied mirror-symmetrically, advantageously
   with respect to a symmetry plane in which the angle bisector of the second interior
   angle of the mesh extends, and/or which is arranged in parallel to the longitudinal
   direction of the helix. Preferably said symmetry plane is a main extension plane of
   the wire netting and/or of the helix. Preferentially the bending region is mirror
20 symmetrical in the longitudinal view, in particular with respect to said symmetry
   axis. This allows achieving advantageous mechanical properties of a bending
   region.
   Beyond this it is proposed that the bending curvature is larger than the first
   transition curvature and/or than the second transition curvature. It is conceivable
25 that the first transition curvature and/or the second transition curvature is at least
   substantially constant. Preferably, in the first transition zone and/or in the second
   transition zone the bending region merges into the first leg and/or into the second
   leg. Advantageously the first leg, the bending region and the second leg form a V
   shaped section of the helix, wherein the bending region in particular forms a

                                              - 22
   rounded tip of the section. This advantageously allows avoiding, in particular to a
   large extent, or at least reducing stress in the material caused by sudden
   geometry changes.
   A high degree of hardness in a frontal direction and/or a high load-bearing
 5 capacity of connecting points of a netting is achievable if the bending zone, in
   particular the entire bending zone, follows a circular-arc-shaped course, in
   particular in the longitudinal view. Advantageously a curvature radius of the
   bending zone is at least substantially equivalent to a sum of a radius of the
   longitudinal element, respectively the wire, and a radius of the bending mandrel.
10 In particular, for the reverse bend test C is a factor of precisely 400 N0 5 mm     5
                                                                                         . It is
   also conceivable that a greater C is chosen, in particular to achieve a higher load
   bearing capacity of a helix. For example, C may be a factor of at least
   500 N0 5 mm       or no less than 750 N0 5 mm    5 or at least 1000 N0 5 mm   5 or no
   less than 1500 N0 5 mm0     5
                                 or even greater. In particular, the factor may be chosen
15 specific for an application, wherein a greater factor will result in selecting a wire
   breaking less easily in case of bending, and thus in particular to a wire netting with
   a higher level of non-destructive deformability.
   Furthermore, according to the invention a method for producing a wire netting
   according to the invention, in particular a safety net, with a plurality of helices
20 which are braided with one another, is proposed, wherein a wire suitable for
   manufacturing, which is in particular made of a high-tensile steel, is identified at
   least via the method according to the invention for identifying a suitable wire, and
   wherein at least one helix is manufactured of at least one single wire, a wire
   bundle, a wire strand, a wire rope and/or another longitudinal element with the
25 identified wire by bending. This advantageously allows largely avoiding time
   consuming test runs. Moreover in this way a high-grade wire netting is producible.
   It is further proposed that the first partial characteristic curve runs over a press
   path value range that is equivalent to at least a quarter, advantageously at least a
   third, especially advantageously at least half of the transverse extension of the

                                              - 23
   helix. In particular, a transverse extension of the test piece of the helix is
   equivalent to a transverse extension of the helix. This advantageously allows
   rendering a wire netting available which is capable of receiving forces acting in an
   impact partly elastically and/or non-destructively over a wide range.
 5 In an advantageous implementation of the invention it is proposed that an
   approximately linearly-extending second partial characteristic curve with a second
   gradient that is greater than the first gradient follows, in particular directly follows,
   the first partial characteristic curve. In particular, the second gradient is at least 1.2
   times, advantageously no less than 1.5 times, especially advantageously at least
10 twice and preferably no less than three times as great as the first gradient. In
   particular, the second gradient is maximally ten times, advantageously no more
   than eight times, especially advantageously maximally six times and preferentially
   no more than five times as great as the first gradient In this way, force peaks
   occurring in case of a load may be advantageously absorbed by a wire netting.
15 An adaptive force intake and/or energy intake of a wire netting is achievable if the
   second gradient is no more than four times as great as the first gradient. In
   particular, in this way damages by abruptly decelerated, impacted objects are
   avoidable as a deceleration is effected in at least two steps.
   Beyond this it is proposed that the spring characteristic curve has a kink in a
20 transition region between the first partial characteristic curve and the second
   partial characteristic curve, which in particular allows achieving a spontaneous
   response in case of an impact. A "kink" is in particular to mean, in this context, a
   spontaneous, in particular a jump-like of jump-style change in a gradient. In
   particular, the transition region extends over a press path value range that
25 corresponds to maximally 5 %, advantageously no more than 3 %, especially
   advantageously no more than 2 % and preferably maximally 1 % of the transverse
   extension of the helix.
   It is also proposed that the second partial characteristic curve extends over a
   press path value range that corresponds to at least a fifth, advantageously no less

                                             - 24
   than a quarter, especially advantageously at least a third of the transverse
   extension of the helix. Preferably the second partial characteristic curve extends
   over a press path value range that is smaller than a corresponding press path
   value range of the first partial characteristic curve. In this way, in a second force
 5 accommodation zone of a wire netting, great forces may be absorbed in a
   controlled manner involving a comparably smaller deformation than in a first force
   accommodation zone of the wire netting.
   In a preferred implementation of the invention it is proposed that the second partial
   characteristic curve is directly followed by a convexly curved third partial
10 characteristic curve. In particular, the third partial characteristic curve has a
   gradient increasing, in particular continuously, in particular mathematically
   continuously, with an increase of the press path. It is conceivable that the third
   partial characteristic curve follows a polynomial, in particular a parabolic or an
   exponential course. In particular, the third partial characteristic curve extends over
15 a press path value range corresponding to at least a tenth, advantageously at
   least an eighth, especially advantageously at least a sixth and preferably at least a
   quarter of the transverse extension of the helix. Preferably the third partial
   characteristic curve extends over a press path value range that is smaller than a
   corresponding press path value range of the second partial characteristic curve. In
20 this way extreme forces may be accommodated safely, in particular by way of a
   controlled deformation of a wire netting, respectively of the helices thereof.
   It is further proposed that a transition between the second partial characteristic
   curve and the third partial characteristic curve is kink-free. In particular, the
   gradient of the second partial characteristic curve continuously merges into the
25 gradient of the third partial characteristic curve. Preferably the spring characteristic
   curve is composed of the first partial characteristic curve, the second partial
   characteristic curve, which in particular directly follows the first partial
   characteristic curve, and the third partial characteristic curve, which in particular
   directly follows the second partial characteristic curve. This advantageously allows

                                              - 25
   avoiding a suddenly occurring damaging of a wire netting, e.g. in case of an
   impact.
   Principally it is conceivable that the first partial characteristic is directly followed by
   a partial characteristic curve which, in terms of its course, approximately or
 5 precisely corresponds to the third partial characteristic curve. It is in particular
   conceivable that the spring characteristic curve is free of a second linear partial
   characteristic curve.
   Moreover it is proposed that the geometry adjusting unit comprises a transverse
   stroke unit, which is configured to change a relative position of the bending table
10 with respect to the feed axis, along a main extension direction in a transverse
   stroke direction of the bending mandrel, periodically and/or in a manner
   synchronized with a circulation of the bending table about the bending mandrel, in
   particular during manufacturing of the helix. In particular, the transverse stroke unit
   comprises at least one conveying element, which conveys the helix blank to the
15 bending table. In particular, the conveying element is supported displaceably, with
   respect to the bending table, in the transverse stroke direction. Advantageously
   the transverse stroke unit comprises at least one coupling element, which couples
   a movement of the conveying element, in particular mechanically, to the circulation
   of the bending table about the bending mandrel. Preferentially the bending table is,
20 at a start of the bending and/or following the forward-feeding of the helix blank, in
   a start position of the bending table. Especially preferentially the conveying
   element is, at a start of the bending and/or following the forward displacement of
   the helix blank, in a start position of the conveying element. In particular, during a
   circulation of the bending table about the bending mandrel, the bending table and
25 the conveying element are at least once in their respective start positions
   simultaneously. Advantageously, during a circulation of the bending table about
   the bending mandrel, the conveying element is deflected out of its start position, in
   parallel to the transverse stroke direction, away from the bending table. Especially
   advantageously, in said circulation of the bending table the conveying element is
30 then moved back into its start position. In particular, the transverse stroke unit is

                                             - 26
   configured to provide a bending region generated in bending with the second
   gradient angle. In particular, the transverse stroke unit is configured to generate an
   adjustable transverse stroke. This advantageously allows a precise adjustment of
   a geometry of a bending region by adapting a transverse stroke.
 5 In an advantageous implementation of the invention it is proposed that the
   geometry adjusting unit comprises an abutment unit with at least one abutment
   element defining a maximum feed-forward position for the helix blank. In particular,
   the abutment unit is configured to adjust a length of the first leg and/or a length of
   the second leg. Advantageously, in the forward feeding, the feed unit feeds the
10 helix blank, in particular a respective most recently bent bending region, forward
   up to the abutment element. In particular, in a forward-fed state, the helix blank, in
   particular the respective most recently bent bending region, abuts on the abutment
   element. Preferentially, prior to bending, the helix blank is fed forward up to the
   maximum feed-forward position. In this way advantageously a helix geometry, in
15 particular a leg length, may be adjusted precisely and/or easily and/or reliably.
   In an especially advantageous implementation of the invention it is proposed that
   the abutment element is supported in a manner completely circulating about the
   bending mandrel, in particular circulating on a circular path. Preferably a
   movement of the bending table and a movement of the abutment element about
20 the bending mandrel are synchronized, in particular during manufacturing of the
   helix. This allows facilitating a precise forward-feeding at a high manufacturing
   speed.
   It is moreover proposed that, in a circulation of the bending table, a position of the
   bending table with respect to the abutment element is variable. Advantageously
25 the abutment element runs in advance of the bending table during the forward
   feeding and/or prior to the bending. In particular, during a circulation of the
   bending table about the bending mandrel, the helix blank is already situated in the
   maximum feed-forward position before the bending table is in its start position.
   Advantageously the abutment element abuts on the bending table during bending.

                                             - 27
   Especially advantageously a position of the abutment element with respect to the
   bending table is constant during bending. In this way a movement flow allowing
   high-level precision and/or a high speed of manufacturing.
   A precise positioning of a blank prior to bending is achievable if the abutment
 5 element comprises an abutment surface that is curved concavely, in particular
   curved in the shape of a circular arc. In particular, the abutment surface is curved
   concavely, in particular curved in the shape of a circular arc, in two directions,
   which advantageously extend perpendicularly to one another. Preferably, in a
   circulation of the abutment element about the bending mandrel, a distance
10 between the abutment surface and the bending mandrel is constant. Preferentially
   the abutment surface is implemented as a surface of a groove. The groove is
   advantageously curved about the bending mandrel in a circulation direction.
   Particularly advantageously the abutment surface is curved concavely in a
   direction that is perpendicular to a longitudinal direction of the groove. In particular,
15 a curvature of the abutment surface in a longitudinal view approximately
   corresponds to a curvature of the bending region. In particular, the groove is
   configured for centering the helix blank and/or the most recently bent bending
   region, in particular toward an end of the forward-feeding and/or in the maximum
   feed-forward position of the helix blank.
20 It is further proposed that in at least one forward-feed operating state, in which a
   forward-feeding of the helix blank is effected, a position of the abutment element
   with respect to the feed axis, and in particular with respect to the bending mandrel,
   is variable. In particular, in the forward-feed operating state, the abutment element
   circulates about the bending mandrel with a constant angular velocity. In this way
25 a precise abutment for a blank may be made available by means of a moved
   structural component, in particular by a rotating structural component.
   In a preferred implementation of the invention it is proposed that the bending table
   is supported pivotally about a pivot axis which itself circulates about the bending
   mandrel during circulation of the bending table about the bending mandrel.

                                             - 28
   Advantageously the pivot axis is arranged parallel to the longitudinal axis of the
   bending mandrel. Especially advantageously the bending table is pivoted about
   the pivot axis after bending. In particular, in pivoting about the pivot axis, the
   bending table carries out an evasive movement, as a result of which the bending
 5 table is conveyable underneath the helix blank when circulating about the bending
   mandrel. In particular, during part of its circulation about the bending mandrel the
   bending table is in a pivoted position. This allows advantageously providing a
   continuously circulating bending table facilitating quick and precise manufacturing.
   In a particularly preferred embodiment of the invention it is proposed that for the
10 purpose of bending a helix blank the bending unit is configured with at least one
   wire which is made of a high-tensile steel.
   Helixes which are straight in themselves and/or not twisted in themselves are
   advantageously manufacturable if the bending unit is configured to bend the helix
   blank by more than 1800 in a circulation of the bending table. In particular, the
15 bending unit is configured to overbend and/or overpress the helix blank in bending,
   which may be necessary in particular in case of longitudinal elements with a high
   tensile wire, in particular because of a partially elastic behavior and/or resilience of
   such longitudinal elements. Advantageously the bending unit is configured to
   generate bending regions which are bent by 1800. Advantageously, following the
20 bending, the bending table is pivoted by an angle greater than 1800. Especially
   advantageously the bending unit is configured to adjust an overbend angle. In
   particular, during bending the bending table presses against the helix blank,
   advantageously while, in its circulation, the bending table sweeps over an angle
   range that is greater than 1800 by an overbend angle. In particular, an overbend
25 angle may be, for example, up to 10 or up to 20 or up to 50 or up to 100 or up to 150
   or up to 200 or up to 300 or more, in particular depending on spring characteristic
   curves of the helix blank. It is also conceivable that the overbend angle is
   adjustable via an adjustment of the bending unit.

                                             - 29
   An inadvertent subsequent bending is avoidable and/or a high precision of
   manufacturing is achievable if the geometry adjusting unit comprises a holding unit
   with at least one holding element, which at least partly fixates the helix, viewed
   from the bending mandrel, behind the bending table in bending and in particular in
 5 overbending as well. In particular, the holding element restricts a movability and/or
   bendability of the helix in at least one direction, in particular toward a half-space.
   Advantageously the holding element holds the helix in a proximity of a leg abutting
   on the most recently bent bending region. In particular, the holding element partly
   engages around the helix, in particular in a direction toward a main extension
10 plane of the bending table. The holding element is advantageously embodied fork
   like. In particular, in a bending of the helix blank about the bending mandrel, the
   bending table pivots the entire already bent helix about an axis that is parallel to
   the longitudinal axis of the helix, wherein the holding element advantageously
   stabilizes the helix in said pivoting.
15 A continuous support of a helix while it is bent may be obtained if the holding
   element is supported in such a way that it fully circulates about the bending
   mandrel. In particular, the holding element circulates about the bending mandrel in
   a manner synchronized with the circulation of the bending table, in particular
   during manufacturing of the helix.
20 In a further implementation of the invention it is proposed that the holding element
   is supported pivotally about a pivot axis, the pivot axis itself circulating about the
   bending mandrel during a circulation of the holding element about the bending
   mandrel. In particular, the holding element abuts on the helix only during part of a
   circulation of the holding element about the bending mandrel. Advantageously the
25 holding element pivots about its pivot axis during its circulation about the bending
   mandrel, while moving away from the helix. Especially advantageously the holding
   element is during the forward-feeding arranged touch-free with respect to the helix
   and to the helix blank. This in particular allows achieving a high manufacturing
   speed. Moreover, in this way a deceleration of moved components during

                                             - 30
   manufacturing may be largely dispensed with in a time-efficient and/or energy
   effective fashion.
   In a preferred embodiment of the invention it is proposed that the holding element
   is supported on the bending table. In particular, the pivot axis of the bending table
 5 and the pivot axis of the holding element extend in parallel, and preferentially in
   parallel to the longitudinal axis of the bending mandrel. In particular, the pivot axis
   of the holding element extends in the bending table and/or in a suspension of the
   bending table. Preferably the geometry adjusting unit comprises at least one
   slotted link for the bending table. Especially preferentially the geometry adjusting
10 unit comprises at least one further slotted link for the holding element.
   Advantageously, during manufacturing of the helix the bending table and the
   holding element circulate about the bending mandrel synchronously and are
   pivoted with respect to the helix blank at different points in time.
   The invention furthermore comprises a method for manufacturing a wire netting
15 according to the invention, in particular a safety net, comprising a plurality of
   helices which are braided with one another and at least one of which is
   manufactured of at least one helix blank, namely a single wire, a wire bundle, a
   wire strand, a wire rope and/or another longitudinal element with at least one wire,
   by means of at least one bending device according to the invention. In this way in
20 particular a high speed of manufacturing and a high manufacturing precision may
   be achievable.
   A wire netting according to the invention, a bending device according to the
   invention and a method according to the invention are herein not to be restricted to
   the applications and implementation forms described above. In particular, to fulfill
25 a functionality herein described, a wire netting according to the invention, a
   bending device according to the invention and a method according to the invention
   may comprise a number of respective elements and/or structural components
   and/or units and/or method steps that differs from a number herein mentioned.

                                            - 31
   Drawings
   Further advantages will become apparent from the following description of the
   drawings. In the drawings various exemplary embodiments of the invention are
   depicted. The drawings, the description and the claims contain a plurality of
 5 features in combination. Someone skilled in the art will purposefully also consider
   the features separately and will find further expedient combinations.
   It is shown in:
          Fig. 1   a portion of a wire netting in a schematic front view,
          Fig. 2   a portion of a helix of the wire netting in a perspective view,
10        Fig. 3   another portion of the wire netting in a schematic front view,
          Fig. 4   two legs and a bending region of the helix in different views,
          Fig. 5   two interconnected bending regions of two helices in different
                   views,
          Fig. 6   the helix, viewed in a longitudinal direction of the helix, in a
15                 schematic representation,
          Fig. 7   a bend test device for carrying out a reverse bend test, in a
                   schematic representation,
          Fig. 8   a pressing device for carrying out a press test, in a schematic
                   representation,
20        Fig. 9   a spring characteristic curve of a test piece of the helix, in a
                   schematic diagram,
          Fig. 10  a bending device for manufacturing a wire netting, in a perspective
                   view,
          Fig. 11  a bending space of the bending device in a first operating state, in
25                 a perspective view,
          Fig. 12  the bending space in a second operating state, in a perspective
                   view,
          Fig. 13  slotted links of a bending table and of a holding element of the
                   bending device, in a schematic side view,

                                             - 32
         Fig. 14    a schematic flow chart of a method for manufacturing the wire
                    netting,
         Fig. 15    a second wire netting in a schematic front view,
         Fig. 16    a bending region of a helix of the second wire netting, in a
 5                  schematic representation,
         Fig. 17    a third wire netting in a schematic front view,
         Fig. 18    a bending region of a helix of the third wire netting, in a schematic
                    representation,
         Fig. 19    a helix of a fourth wire netting, viewed in a longitudinal direction of
10                  the helix, in a schematic view,
         Fig. 20    a helix of a fifth wire netting, viewed in a longitudinal direction of
                    the helix, in a schematic view,
         Fig. 21    a spring characteristic curve of a test piece of a helix of a sixth
                    wire netting, in a schematic diagram,
15       Fig. 22    a spring characteristic curve of a test piece of a helix of a seventh
                    wire netting, in a schematic diagram,
         Fig. 23    a spring characteristic curve of a test piece of a helix of an eighth
                    wire netting, in a schematic diagram,
         Fig. 24    a spring characteristic curve of a test piece of a helix of a ninth
20                  wire netting, in a schematic diagram, and
         Fig. 25    a spring characteristic curve of a test piece of a helix of a tenth
                    wire netting, in a schematic diagram.
   Description of the exemplary embodiments
   Figure 1 shows a portion of a wire netting 1Oa in a schematic front view. The wire
25 netting 10a is implemented as a safety net. The wire netting 10a shown may be
   used, for example, as a slope protection, as a snow-slide protection net, as a
   catch fence or the like. The wire netting 1Oa comprises a plurality of helices 12a,
   14a which are braided with one another, in particular a helix 12a and a further
   helix 14a. In the present case the wire netting 10a comprises a plurality of

                                             - 33
   identically implemented helices 12a, 14a, which are twisted into each other and
   form the wire netting 10a.
   Figure 2 shows a portion of the helix 12a of the wire netting 10a in a perspective
   view. Figure 3 shows another portion of the wire netting 1Oa in a schematic front
 5 representation. The helix 12a is manufactured of a longitudinal element 16a with at
   least one wire 18a. In the present case the longitudinal element 16a is embodied
   as a single wire. The wire 18a implements the longitudinal element 16a in the
   present case. The longitudinal element 16a is bent to form the helix 12a. The helix
   12a is embodied in a one-part implementation. The helix 12a is manufactured of a
10 single piece of wire. In the present case the wire 18a has a diameter d of 3 mm. It
   is also conceivable that a longitudinal element is implemented as a wire bundle, a
   wire strand, a wire rope or the like. Moreover it is conceivable that a wire has a
   different diameter, e.g. less than 1 mm or approximately 1 mm or approximately
   2 mm or approximately 4 mm or approximately 5 mm or approximately 6 mm or
15 has an even greater diameter.
   The helix 12a comprises a first leg 20a, a second leg 22a and a bending region
   24a connecting the first leg 20a and the second leg 22a. In the present case the
   helix 12a comprises a plurality of first legs 20a, a plurality of second legs 22a and
   a plurality of bending regions 24a, not all of which are given a reference numeral
20 for the sake of better overview. Furthermore, in the present case the first legs 20a
   are implemented at least substantially identically to each other. In the present case
   the second legs 22a are also implemented at least substantially identically to each
   other. Moreover, in the present case the bending regions 24a are implemented at
   least substantially identically to each other. Therefore, in the following the first leg
25 20a, the second leg 22a and the bending region 24a are described in detail by way
   of example. It is of course conceivable that a wire netting comprises differing first
   legs and/or differing second legs and/or differing bending regions.
   The helix 12a has a longitudinal direction 28a. The helix 12a has a longitudinal
   axis 109a extending in parallel to the longitudinal direction 28a. The longitudinal

                                             - 34
   direction 28a is equivalent to a main extension direction of the helix 12a. In a front
   view perpendicularly to a main extension plane of the helix 12a, the first leg 20a
   extends featuring a first gradient angle 26a with respect to the longitudinal
   direction 28a of the helix 12a. In particular, the front view is a view in a frontal
 5 direction 54a. The first leg 20a has a longitudinal axis 110a. The longitudinal axis
   11 Oa of the first leg 20a extends in parallel to a main extension direction 11 2a of
   the first leg 20a. In figure 3 the helix 12a is shown in the front view. The
   longitudinal axis 109a of the helix 12a and the longitudinal axis 110a of the first leg
   20a include the first gradient angle 26a. The first leg 20a has in the present case a
10 length of approximately 65 mm. The second leg 22a has in the present case a
   length of approximately 65 mm.
   Figure 4 shows a portion of the helix 12a comprising the first leg 20a, the second
   leg 22a and the bending region 24a in a variety of views. Figure 4a illustrates a
   view in the longitudinal direction 28a of the helix 12a. Figure 4b shows the first leg
15 20a, the second leg 22a and the bending region 24a in a transverse view
   perpendicularly to the longitudinal direction 28a of the helix 12a and in the main
   extension plane of the helix 12a. Figure 4c illustrates a view in the frontal direction
   54a. Figure 4d shows a perspective view. In the transverse view, the bending
   region 24a extends at least section-wise with a second gradient angle 30a with
20 respect to the longitudinal direction 28a of the helix 12a, which is different from the
   first gradient angle 26a. In the transverse view the bending region 24a has a
   longitudinal axis 114a. The longitudinal axis 114a of the bending region 24a and
   the longitudinal axis 109a of the helix 12a include the second gradient angle 30a.
   The wire 18a is at least partly made of a high-tensile steel. The wire 18a is
25 embodied as a high-tensile steel wire. The wire 18a has a tensile strength R of at
   least 800 N mm- 2 . In the present case the wire 18a has a tensile strength of
   approximately 1770 N mm- 2 . Of course, as has been mentioned above, other
   tensile strengths are also conceivable, in particular even tensile strengths of more
   than 2200 N mm- 2 . It is in particular conceivable that a wire is made of super high
30 tensile steel.

                                             - 35
   The second gradient angle 30a differs from the first gradient angle 26a by at least
   50. The second gradient angle 30a has a value between 250 and 650. Furthermore
   the first gradient angle 26a is greater than 450. In the present case the first
   gradient angle 26a is approximately 600. Furthermore, in the present case the
 5 second gradient angle 30a is approximately 450. The second gradient angle 30a is
   smaller than the first gradient angle 26a.
   In the transverse view, the bending region 24a follows at least section-wise an at
   least approximately straight contour. In the present case a large part of the
   bending region 24a follows a straight contour in the transverse view.
10 In the transverse view, the helix 12a follows at least section-wise a stepped
   contour. The stepped contour is obliquely-stepped.
   The first leg 20a follows at least section-wise a straight contour. In the present
   case the first leg 20a follows a straight contour. The second leg 22a follows at
   least section-wise a straight contour. In the present case the second leg 22a
15 follows a straight contour. The first leg 20a and/or the second leg 22a are free of a
   curvature and/or bend and/or kink. The bending region 24a has a contour
   describing, in a longitudinal view, in parallel to the longitudinal direction 28a of the
   helix 12a, a 1800 bend. In figure 4a the helix 12a is shown in a longitudinal view.
   The first leg 20a extends at least section-wise, in particular entirely, in a first plane
20 and the second leg 22a extends at least section-wise, in particular entirely, in a
   second plane that is parallel to the first plane. In the longitudinal view, the first leg
   20a extends in parallel to the second leg 22a.
   The further helix 14a comprises a further bending region 32a. The bending region
   24a and the further bending region 32a are connected. The bending region 24a
25 and the further bending region 32a implement a connecting point of the first helix
   12a and the further helix 14a.

                                            - 36
   Figure 5 shows a portion of the wire netting 10a, which comprises the bending
   region 24a and the further bending region 32a, in different views. Figure 5a shows
   a view in a longitudinal direction 28a of the helix 12a. Figure 5b shows the portion
   of the wire netting 10a in a transverse view perpendicularly to the longitudinal
 5 direction 28a of the helix 12a in the main extension plane of the helix 12a. Figure
   5c shows a view in the frontal direction 54a. Figure 5d shows a perspective view.
   The helix 12a and the further helix 14a intersect in a proximity of the further
   bending region 32a at least substantially perpendicularly. In the transverse view,
   the bending region 24a and the further bending region 32a include an intersection
10 angle 118a. The intersection angle 118a depends on the second gradient angle
   30a and a correspondingly defined further second gradient angle of the further
   helix 14a. In the present case, the intersection angle 118a is 900.
   For other first gradient angles a second gradient angle of 450 is advantageously
   chosen in such a way that accordingly implemented helices intersect
15 perpendicularly in connecting points and said connecting points advantageously
   have a high mechanical load-bearing capacity.
   Figure 6 shows the helix 12a, viewed in a longitudinal direction 28a of the helix
   12a, in a schematic representation. In figures 1 to 5 the helix 12a, in particular the
   bending region 24a, is shown in a representation that is simplified with respect to
20 the representation in figure 6. In the longitudinal view in parallel to the longitudinal
   direction 28a of the helix 12a, the bending region 24a comprises a bending zone
   34a with a bending curvature and with a first transition zone 36a which is
   connected to the first leg 20a and has a first transition curvature differing from the
   bending curvature. The bending zone 34a is connected to the first transition zone
25 36a. The bending zone 34a and the first transition zone 36a are arranged directly
   side by side and in particular merge into one another. The bending zone 34a and
   the first transition zone 36a are connected to one another in a one-part
   implementation. The first transition zone 36a merges into the first leg 20a. The first
   transition zone 36a is connected to the first leg 20a in a one-part implementation.

                                              - 37
   In the longitudinal view, the bending region 24a comprises a second transition
   zone 38a which is connected to the second leg 22a and has a second transition
   curvature that differs from the bending curvature. The second transition zone 38a
   is connected to the bending zone 34a in a one-part implementation. The second
 5 transition zone 38a merges into the second leg 22a. The second transition zone
   38a is connected to the second leg 22a in a one-part implementation. The bending
   zone 34a, the first transition zone 36a and the second transition zone 38a together
   embody the bending region 24a.
   The first transition curvature and the second transition curvature are identical. It is
10 however also conceivable that a first transition curvature and a second transition
   curvature are different from one another, allowing to create, for example, a wire
   netting with a front side and a rear side, which differ in particular regarding their
   spring characteristic curves and/or deformation characteristics.
   In the longitudinal view the first transition zone 36a and the second transition zone
15 38a are embodied mirror-symmetrically. The first transition zone 36a and the
   second transition zone 38a are mirror-symmetrical with respect to a main
   extension plane of the wire netting 1Oa. The first transition zone 36a and the
   second transition zone 38a are mirror-symmetrical with respect to a plane that
   extends centrally between the plane in which the first leg 20a extends and the
20 plane in which the second leg 22a extends and which is parallel to the plane in
   which the first leg 20a extends, the centrally-extending plane being parallel to said
   planes.
   The bending curvature is greater than the first transition curvature. The bending
   curvature is greater than the second transition curvature. The bending zone 34a
25 follows a circle-shaped course. In the longitudinal view, the bending zone 34a is
   bent in a circular-arc shape. In the longitudinal view, the bending zone 34a is bent
   by less than 1800. The bending zone 34a, the first transition zone 36a and the
   second transition zone 38a are, in the longitudinal view, all bent by 1800. In the
   present case, the bending curvature, in particular the contour of the bending zone

                                             - 38
   34a, merges into the first transition curvature, in particular into a contour of the first
   transition zone 36a, continuously, in particular mathematically continuously, in
   particular kink-free. Furthermore, in the present case, the bending curvature, in
   particular the contour of the bending zone 34a, merges into the second transition
 5 curvature, in particular into a contour of the second transition zone 38a,
   continuously, in particular mathematically continuously, in particular kink-free.
   Moreover, in the present case the first transition curvature, in particular the course
   of the first transition zone 36a, merges into the straight contour of the first leg 20a
   continuously, in particular mathematically continuously, in particular kink-free.
10 Moreover, in the present case the second transition curvature, in particular the
   contour of the second transition zone 38a, merges into the straight contour of the
   second leg 22a continuously, in particular mathematically continuously, in
   particular kink-free. It is also conceivable that respective transitions are provided
   with a kink. It is further conceivable that a first transition curvature and/or a second
15 transition curvature disappears, wherein in particular a first transition zone and/or
   a second transition zone have a straight contour at least section-wise or over their
   entire extension.
   Figure 7 shows a bend test device 120a for carrying out a reverse bend test, in a
   schematic view. The bend test device 120a comprises clamping jaws 122a, 124a,
20 which are configured to clamp a test piece of a wire between them. In the case
   shown it is a test piece 42a of the wire 18a. The bend test device 120a comprises
   a bending lever 128a, which is supported in such a way that it is pivotable to-and
   fro-wise. The bending lever 128a comprises drivers 130a, 132a for the test piece
   42a of the wire 18a. The bend test device 120a comprises a bending cylinder 40a,
25 about which the test piece 42a of the wire 18a is bent in the reverse bend test. The
   bend test device 120a comprises a further bending cylinder 126a, which is
   embodied identically to the bending cylinder 40a. The further bending cylinder
   126a is arranged opposite the bending cylinder 40a. In the reverse bend test the
   bending lever 128a bends the test piece 42a of the wire 18a alternatingly about
30 the bending cylinder 40a and the further bending cylinder 126a by 900

                                              - 39
   respectively. The reverse bend test is usually carried out until the test piece 42a of
   the wire 18a breaks, for the purpose of testing a load-bearing capacity and/or
   flexibility of said test piece 42a of the wire 18a.
   The bending cylinder 40a has a diameter of maximally 2d, i.e. no more than twice
 5 the diameter d of the wire. In the present case, the bending cylinder 40a has a
   diameter of 5 mm. Advantageously, a bending cylinder diameter of 3.75 mm is
   chosen for a wire diameter of 2 mm. Advantageously, a bending cylinder diameter
   of 5 mm is chosen for a wire diameter of 3 mm. Advantageously, a bending
   cylinder diameter of 7.5 mm is chosen for a wire diameter of 4 mm.
10 Advantageously, a bending cylinder diameter of 10 mm is chosen for a wire
   diameter of 5 mm.
   The test piece 42a of the wire 18a has in the present case a length of
   approximately 85 mm. Advantageously, a test piece length of approximately
   75 mm is chosen for a wire diameter of 2 mm. Advantageously, a test piece length
15 of approximately 85 mm is chosen for a wire diameter of 3 mm. Advantageously, a
   test piece length of approximately 100 mm is chosen for a wire diameter of 4 mm.
   Advantageously, a test piece length of approximately 115 mm is chosen for a wire
   diameter of 5 mm. Preferably the test piece 42a is cut off the wire 18a, in particular
   prior to a manufacturing of the longitudinal element 16a and/or of the wire netting
20 1Oa.
   In the reverse bend test about the bending cylinder 40a and in particular about the
   further bending cylinder 126a, the wire 18a, respectively the test piece 42a of the
   wire 18a, is bendable by at least 90 0 in opposite directions at least M times without
   breaking, wherein M may be determined, if applicable by rounding down, to be
         5
25 C-R-      d-0 5 , and wherein d is the diameter of the wire 18a in mm, R is the tensile
   strength of the wire 18a in N mm- 2 and C is a factor of at least 400 N0 5 mm     5
                                                                                       . The
   reverse bend test permits testing the wire 18a, in addition to its tensile strength,
   also regarding its flexural characteristics, which are relevant both for a
   manufacturing of the wire netting 10a as well as for a deformation behavior of the

                                             - 40
   wire netting 10a in an installation and in particular in case of an impact. If a greater
   value is chosen for C, wires may be chosen which have a higher flexibility, e.g. for
   more demanding applications. C may, for example, be a factor of 500 N0 5 mm           or
   750 N0 5 mm     5 or 1000 N0 5 mm  5 or 2000 N05 mm0     5 or even greater. In the
 5 present case, the above formula gives a value of
   M' = 400 N0 5 mm 0 5   x (1770 N mm 2 )-05  x (3 mm)-0 5 = 5.4892.
   In the present case, applying this formula and then rounding down M', results in M
   having a value of 5.
   The bend test device 120a defines a bending length 133a. The bending length
10 133a is a vertical distance between a highest point of the bending cylinder 40a and
   a lowest point of the drivers 130a, 132a. In the present case, the bending length
   133a is approximately 35 mm. Advantageously a bending length of approximately
   25 mm is chosen for a wire diameter of 2 mm. Advantageously a bending length of
   approximately 35 mm is chosen for a wire diameter of 3 mm. Advantageously a
15 bending length of approximately 50 mm is chosen for a wire diameter of 4 mm.
   Advantageously a bending length of approximately 75 mm is chosen for a wire
   diameter of 5 mm.
   By way of the reverse bend test, a suitable wire 18a may be identified prior to a
   manufacturing of the wire netting 10a. The wire 18a is herein identified as suitable
20 if the test piece 42a of the wire 18a is bendable to and fro about the bending
   cylinder 40a and in particular about the further bending cylinder 126a by at least
   900 in opposite directions at least M times without breaking.
   Figure 8 shows a pressing device 134a for the purpose of executing a press test,
   in a schematic representation. The pressing device 134a comprises two opposite
25 parallel plates 48a, 50a, namely a first plate 48a and a second plate 50a. The
   plates 48a, 50a are movable toward each other along a press path 52a. In the
   present case the first plate 48a is movable toward the second plate 50a.
   Furthermore, in the present case the plates 48a, 50a are moved toward each other

                                             - 41
   in the press test with a velocity of approximately 117 pm s-1. Advantageously, prior
   to the press test the first plate 48a and/or the second plate 50a is first of all
   traversed towards contacting the test piece 42a of the wire 18a, in particular with a
   pre-load of approximately 10 kN and/or with a velocity of approximately 333 pm s
 5 1,wherein other pre-loads and/or velocities, e.g. differing by a factor 2, a factor 5, a
   factor 10, a factor 20, a factor 50, a factor 100, are also conceivable.
   The press test comprises pressing a test piece 46a of the helix 12a. The test piece
   46a of the helix 12a is taken from the helix 12a, in particular cut out of the helix
   12a. The test piece 46a of the helix 12a comprises, in particular precisely, five legs
10 and four bending regions. The helix 12a has a transverse extension 44a (cf. also
   figure 4a). In the present case the transverse extension 44a is approximately
   12 mm. The transverse extension 44a depends on a geometry of the bending
   region 24a. The transverse extension 44a depends on the bending curvature, the
   first transition curvature and the second transition curvature. Any other transverse
15 extensions, and their adaptions to an application, are conceivable. For example,
   smaller transverse extensions may be applied if a wire netting having a small
   thickness is required, e.g. a transverse extension of maximally 10 mm or
   maximally 7mm. Greater transverse extensions are also conceivable, e.g. a
   transverse extension of more than 15 mm or more than 25 mm or more than
20 40 mm or even more. It is in particular conceivable, in case of greater diameters of
   longitudinal elements, to choose correspondingly greater transverse extensions.
   However, closely bent wire nettings are also conceivable, having a small
   transverse extension at the same time as a great diameter of a corresponding
   longitudinal element. In particular for the purpose of realizing small netting
25 thicknesses, it is conceivable that a first bending region and a second bending
   region intersect including a small angle, wherein in particular a corresponding
   second gradient angle has a value that is considerably below 450, e.g. 300 or 200
   or even less. It is also conceivable that a first bending region and a second
   bending region intersect including a large angle, wherein a corresponding second
30 gradient angle has a value that is considerably above 450, e.g. an angle of 600 or

                                             - 42
   700 or even more, as a result of which in particular a wire netting is realizable
   featuring a great thickness and narrowly implemented connecting points between
   helices.
   Figure 9 shows a spring characteristic curve 56a of the test piece 46a of the helix
 5 12a in the press test in a schematic press path force diagram 58a. The press path
   force diagram 58a comprises a press path axis 136a, on which a position of the
   plates 48a, 50a, in particular of the first plate 48a, is marked along the press path
   52a. The press path force diagram 58a comprises a force axis 138a, on which a
   press force occurring in the press test is marked in a respective point of the press
10 path 52a. The pressing device 134a is configured to determine the spring
   characteristic curve 56a according to the press path force diagram 58a. The test
   piece 46a of the helix 12a, taken from the helix 12a, shows in the press test
   between the parallel plates 48a, 50a - the press test comprising a pressing via
   moving the plates 48a, 50a along the press path 52a in parallel to the frontal
15 direction 54a of the helix 12a - the spring characteristic curve 56a, which in the
   press path force diagram 58a has a first partial characteristic curve 60a starting
   from a start of the press path 52a and running at least approximately linearly, with
   a first gradient. In the present case the first partial characteristic curve 60a runs
   linearly.
20 The press path 52a herein starts with the plates 48a, 50a abutting on the test
   piece 46a of the helix 12a, wherein no press force acts onto the test piece 46a of
   the helix 12a yet. The press path 52a then extends up to a point in which the test
   piece 46a of the helix 12a is flattened. In particular, the press path 52a extends
   over a distance that is approximately equivalent to a difference between the
25 transverse extension 44a and the wire diameter d. In particular, the test piece 46a
   of the helix 12a is flattened in the press test at least substantially down to the wire
   diameter d.

                                             - 43
   The first partial characteristic curve 60a extends over a press path value range
   66a, which is equivalent at least to a quarter of the transverse extension 44a of the
   helix 12a.
   The first partial characteristic curve 60a is directly followed by an approximately
 5 linearly extending second partial characteristic curve 62a. The second partial
   characteristic curve 62a has a second gradient, which is greater than the first
   gradient. The second gradient is no more than four times as great as the first
   gradient. In the present case the second gradient is approximately twice as great
   as the first gradient. However, other factors between the first gradient and the
10 second gradient are also conceivable, e.g. 1.1 or 1.5 or 2.5 or 3 or 3.5 or the like.
   The spring characteristic curve 56a has a kink 70a in a transition region 68a
   between the first partial characteristic curve 60a and the second partial
   characteristic curve 62a. The kink 70a corresponds to a jump-wise change of a
   gradient of the spring characteristic curve 56a from the first gradient to the second
15 gradient.
   The second partial characteristic curve 62a runs over a press path value range
   72a, which corresponds to at least a fifth of the transverse extension 44a of the
   helix 12a.
   The second partial characteristic curve 62a is followed by a convexly curved third
20 partial characteristic curve 64a. The third partial characteristic curve 64a has a
   continuously increasing gradient. A transition between the second partial
   characteristic curve 62a and the third characteristic 64a is free of a kink. The
   second gradient continuously merges into the gradient of the third partial
   characteristic curve 64a. In a transition point 116a between the second partial
25 characteristic curve 62a and the third partial characteristic curve 64a, the gradient
   of the third partial characteristic curve 64a corresponds to the second gradient.
   Figure 10 shows a bending device 74a for producing the wire netting 1Oa, in a
   perspective view. Figure 11 shows a bending space 140a of the bending device

                                            - 44
   74a in a first operating state, in a perspective view. Figure 12 shows the bending
   space 140a in a second operating state, in a perspective view. The bending device
   74a is configured for producing the wire netting 1Oa. The bending device 74a is
   configured for producing the helix 12a. The bending device 74a is configured for a
 5 bending of the helix 12a according to the geometry of the helix 12a, in particular of
   the legs 20a, 22a and of the bending region 24a of the helix 12a. The bending
   device 74a is configured for producing the wire netting 1Oa, respectively the helix
   12a, from a helix blank 76a. The helix blank 76a is herein implemented by the
   longitudinal element 16a in a non-bent state. In the present case the wire 18a
10 implements the helix blank 76a. It is however also conceivable that a helix blank is
   implemented as a wire bundle and/or a wire strand and/or a wire rope and/or
   another type of a longitudinal element. The bending device 74a is configured to
   produce the helix 12a by a bending of the helix blank 76a.
   The bending device 74a comprises a bending unit 78a. The bending unit 78a
15 comprises a bending mandrel 80a as well as a bending table 82a. The bending
   table 82a is configured for a bending of the helix blank 76a about the bending
   mandrel 80a. The bending table 82a is supported in a manner completely
   circulating the bending mandrel 80a. In manufacturing, the bending table 82a runs
   about the bending mandrel 80a continuously in a circulation direction 142a.The
20 bending mandrel 80a has a longitudinal axis 144a. The longitudinal axis 144a of
   the bending mandrel 80a extends in parallel to a main extension direction 94a of
   the bending mandrel 80a.
   The bending device 74a comprises a feed unit 84a, which is configured for
   forward-feeding of the helix blank 76a in a feed direction 88a along a feed axis
25 86a. The feed axis 86a is arranged in parallel to the feed direction 88a. The feed
   direction 88a extends in parallel to a main extension direction of the helix blank
   76a. The feed axis 86a and the longitudinal axis 144a of the bending mandrel 80a
   include an angle that is at least substantially and in particularly exactly equivalent
   to the first gradient angle 26a. The first gradient angle 26a is adjustable by way of

                                            - 45
   an adjustment of the feed axis 86a with respect to the longitudinal axis 144a of the
   bending mandrel 80a.
   The bending device 74a comprises a geometry adjusting unit 90a, which is
   configured to adjust a geometry of the helix 12a. The geometry adjusting unit 90a
 5 is configured to adjust a length of the first leg 20a and of the second leg 22a. The
   geometry adjusting unit 90a is configured to adjust the transverse extension 44a of
   the helix 12a. The geometry adjusting unit 90a is configured to adjust the first
   gradient angle 26a. The geometry adjusting unit 90a is configured to adjust the
   second gradient angle 30a. The geometry adjusting unit 90a is configured to
10 adjust the bending curvature. The geometry adjusting unit 90a is configured to
   adjust the first transition curvature. The geometry adjusting unit 90a is configured
   to adjust the second transition curvature. The geometry adjusting unit 90a is
   configured to adjust the geometry of the bending region 24a, in particular of the
   bending zone 34a, in particular of the first transition zone 36a and in particular of
15 the second transition zone 38a. The geometry adjusting unit 90a comprises an
   orientation element 146a for adjusting the angle between the feed axis 86a and
   the longitudinal axis 144a of the bending mandrel 80a. The orientation element
   146a is embodied as an oblong hole.
   During manufacturing the helix blank 76a is fed forward repeatedly. Following an
20 executed forward-feeding, the bending unit 78a, in particular the bending table
   82a, respectively bends the helix blank 76a about the bending mandrel 80a to
   generate a bending region 24a of the manufactured helix 12a. A diameter of the
   bending mandrel 80a herein defines the bending curvature of the bending zone
   34a and at least partly defines the transverse extension 44a of the helix 12a. In
25 particular, the diameter of the bending mandrel 80a defines an inner radius of the
   bending region 24a.
   The geometry adjusting unit 90a comprises a transverse stroke unit 92a, which is
   configured for changing a position of the bending table 82a with respect to the
   feed axis 86a, along the main extension direction 94a of the bending mandrel 80a

                                            - 46
   periodically and in a manner synchronized to a circulation of the bending table 82a
   about the bending mandrel 80a. In the present case the transverse stroke unit 92a
   comprises a conveying element 148a, which conveys the helix blank 76a to the
   bending table 82a. The conveying element 148a is embodied as a guiding table
 5 150a with guiding rolls 152a, 154a. The conveying element 148a is supported
   displaceably, with respect to the bending table 82a, in a transverse stroke direction
   156a and counter to said transverse stroke direction 156a. The transverse stroke
   direction 156a runs in parallel to the main extension direction 94a of the bending
   mandrel 80a. The geometry adjusting unit 90a is configured for adjusting a
10 maximum transverse stroke 160a. The conveying element 148a is displaceable,
   by the maximum transverse stroke 160a, in parallel to the transverse stroke
   direction 156a.
   The transverse stroke unit 92a comprises a coupling element 162a which
   mechanically couples a movement of the conveying element 148a to the
15 circulation of the bending table 82a about the bending mandrel 80a. In the present
   case the coupling element 162a is a lever drive mechanically coupling the
   conveying element 148a to a shared drive (not shown) of the bending device 74a.
   During a circulation of the bending table 82a about the bending mandrel 80a, the
   conveying element 148a is deflected, parallel to the transverse stroke direction
20 156a, out of a start position and away from the bending table 82a. Especially
   advantageously, in this circulation of the bending table 82a, the conveying element
   148a is then moved back into its start position. In particular, the transverse stroke
   unit 92a is configured to provide a bending region generated by bending with the
   second gradient angle 30a. In particular, the transverse stroke unit 92a is
25 configured to generate an adjustable maximum transverse stroke 160a. By the
   maximum transverse stroke 160a the second gradient angle 30a is adjustable.
   The maximum transverse stroke 160a allows generating a second gradient angle
   30a, which differs from the first gradient angle 26a, in particular by way of the helix
   blank 76a being laterally offset in a bending of a bending region about the bending
30 mandrel 80a.

                                             - 47
   In the present case the bending mandrel 80a is driven. The bending mandrel 80a
   is supported rotatably about its longitudinal axis 144a. The bending mandrel 80a is
   coupled with the shared drive of the bending device 74a via a belt 164a. The
   bending mandrel 80a is embodied adjustable. The bending unit 78a is loadable
 5 with bending mandrels of differing diameters.
   The geometry adjusting unit 90a comprises an abutment unit 96a with at least one
   abutment element 98a defining a maximum feed-forward position for the helix
   blank 76a. In a forward feeding the helix blank 76a may be fed forward by the feed
   unit 84a maximally up to the maxim feed-forward position. Prior to being bent
10 about the bending mandrel 80a by the bending table 82a, the helix blank 76a is
   situated in the maximum feed-forward position. In the maximum feed-forward
   position, the helix blank 76a abuts on the abutment element 98a with a most
   recently bent bending region 166a of the helix 12a. The first operating state shown
   in figure 11 corresponds to a situation directly before the bending of the helix blank
15 76a about the bending mandrel 80a. In the first operating state, the helix blank 76a
   is in the maximum feed-forward position. The second operating state shown in
   figure 12 corresponds to a situation during the bending of the helix blank 76a
   about the bending mandrel 80a. The bending table 82a is in the second operating
   state offset, along the circulation direction 142a, relative to its position in the first
20 operating state.
   The abutment element 98a is supported in a manner fully circulating about the
   bending mandrel 80a. In manufacturing, the abutment element 98a continuously
   circulates about the bending mandrel 80a in the circulation direction 142a.
   In the circulation of the bending table 82a about the bending mandrel 80a, a
25 position of the bending table 82a with respect to the abutment element 98a is
   variable. The bending table 82a is supported pivotally about a pivot axis 102a
   which, during the circulation of the bending table 82a about the bending mandrel
   80a, itself circulates about the bending mandrel 80a, in particular in the circulation
   direction 142a. In manufacturing, the pivot axis 102a moves on a circular path

                                            - 48
   168a (cf. figure 13). In manufacturing, the pivot axis 102a moves with a constant
   angular velocity. During bending the bending table 82a and the abutment element
   98a circulate about the bending mandrel 80a with equivalent velocities. Following
   the bending, the bending table 82a pivots about the pivot axis 102a, as a result of
 5 which a maximum bending angle is defined. Then, in particular during the forward
   feeding of the helix blank 76a, the bending table 82a pivots back about the pivot
   axis 102a. In the first operating state the abutment element 98a lies upon the
   bending table 82a.
   The abutment element 98a comprises a concavely curved abutment surface 100a.
10 In the circulation direction 142a, the abutment surface 100a is curved in a circular
   arc shape accordingly. The abutment surface 100a is moreover curved in a
   circular-arc shape perpendicularly to the curvature in the circulation direction 142a.
   A curvature radius, which is perpendicular to the circulation direction 142a, at least
   substantially corresponds to a curvature radius of the bending region 24a. In the
15 maximum feed-forward position, the most recently bent bending region 166a abuts
   on the abutment surface 100a, which curves about the most recently bent bending
   region 166a in a circular-arc shape.
   In a feed-forward operating state, in which the forward-feeding of the helix blank
   76a is effected, a position of the abutment element 98a with respect to the feed
20 axis 86a is variable. In the feed-forward operating state, in particular following the
   helix blank 76a abutting on the abutment element 98a and being thus, in
   particular, in the maximum feed-forward position, the abutment element 98a
   moves along the most recently bent bending region 166a in the circulation
   direction 142a.
25 The bending unit 78a is configured for a bending of a helix blank with at least one
   wire made of a high-tensile steel. In the present case the helix blank 76a is
   bendable by means of the bending unit 78a. The bending unit 78a is further
   configured for bending helix blanks implemented of different longitudinal elements,
   e.g. of wire strands, wire ropes, wire bundles or the like, as well as of single wires,

                                             - 49
   respectively in particular having different diameters and/or tensile strengths, into
   helices. Moreover the bending device 74a is configured for manufacturing a wire
   netting, in particular the wire netting 1Oa, from correspondingly bent helices.
   The bending unit is configured for bending the helix blank 76a in a single
 5 circulation, in particular in each circulation, of the bending table 82a about the
   bending mandrel 80a by more than 1800. A bending angle is herein defined by a
   point in time of a pivoting of the bending table 82a about the pivot axis 102a. The
   bending unit 78a is configured to overbend the helix blank 76a, in particular to
   compensate for a rebound of the helix blank 76a after bending, due to its high
10 degree of hardness. The bending unit 78a is configured to provide the bending
   region 24a with a total angle of precisely 1800, allowing the helix 12a being
   manufactured extending straight in itself.
   The geometry adjusting unit 90a comprises a holding unit 104a with a holding
   element 106a which, during the bending about the bending mandrel 80a, at least
15 partly fixates the helix 12a, viewed from the bending mandrel 80a, behind the
   bending table 82a. The holding element 106a partly engages around the helix 12a.
   The holding element 106a is embodied fork-like. During a bending of the helix
   blank 76a about the bending mandrel 80a, wherein the helix 12a is co-rotated in
   the circulation direction 142a, the holding element 106a supports the helix 12a.
20 The holding element 106a is supported in a manner completely circulating about
   the bending mandrel 80a. The holding element 106a is supported pivotally about a
   pivot axis 108a, which itself circulates about the bending mandrel 80a during a
   circulation of the holding element 106a about the bending mandrel 80a. The
   holding element 106a is supported on the bending table 82a. The pivot axis 108a
25 of the holding element 106a is identical to the pivot axis 102a of the bending table
   82a. The pivot axis 108a extends through a support pin 170a supporting the
   holding element 106a on the bending table 82a. In a circulation of the holding
   element 106a about the bending mandrel 80a, a position of the holding element
   106a with respect to the bending table 82a is variable. After bending the holding

                                             - 50
   element 106a is pivoted away from the helix 12a and is moved back into a start
   position underneath the helix 12a. Then the holding element 106a engages around
   the helix 12a engages around the helix 12a in a proximity of another leg than
   before.
 5 Figure 13 shows slotted links 172a, 174a of the bending table 82a and of the
   holding element 106a, in a schematic side view. A first slotted link 172a effects a
   pivoting of the bending table 82a about the pivot axis 102a in the circulation of the
   bending table 82a about the bending mandrel 80a. A second slotted link 174a
   effects a pivoting of the holding element 106a about the pivot axis 108a of the
10 holding element 106a in the circulation of the holding element 106a about the
   bending mandrel 80a.
   Figure 14 shows a schematic flow chart of a method for producing the wire netting
   10a. In a first method step 176a, a test piece 42a of the wire 18a is taken from the
   longitudinal element 16a and, by carrying out the already described reverse bend
15 test, the wire 18a is identified as suitable. Accordingly, a non-suitable wire would
   not be used further on. In a second method step 178a, the wire netting 10a is
   manufactured from the longitudinal element 16a with the wire 18a identified as
   suitable. The wire netting 10a is manufactured by bending, wherein the helix 12a
   is produced. In the second method step 178a, the helix 12a is produced via the
20 bending device 74a. In a third method step 180a, a test piece 46a of the helix 12a
   is taken from the helix 12a and is tested via the press test already described. The
   third method step 180a may be effected following a short test run of manufacturing
   a test piece of the wire netting 1Oa and/or for quality control purposes.
   The method steps 176a, 178a, 180a described may also be carried out
25 independently from one another. It is, for example, conceivable to process a wire
   or a corresponding longitudinal element, which has been identified as suitable by
   the reverse bend test, to implement a wire netting in a different manner. It is
   moreover conceivable to manufacture via the bending device a wire netting that
   does not comprise a wire showing the described behavior in the reverse bend test

                                            - 51
   and/or in the press test. Furthermore any manufacturing method is conceivable for
   a wire netting in particular showing the described behavior in the press test. It is
   principally conceivable to manufacture a wire netting having one or a plurality of
   the features described by means of a braiding knife and/or by means of a bending
 5 table that is pivotable to and fro and/or by means of another suitable
   manufacturing device.
   Figures 15 to 25 show nine further exemplary embodiments of the invention. The
   following description and the drawings are restricted substantially to the
   differences between the exemplary embodiments wherein, as regards identically
10 designated structural components, in particular as regards structural components
   with the same reference numerals, principally the drawings and/or the description
   of the other exemplary embodiments, in particular of figures 1 to 14, may also be
   referred to. For the purpose of distinguishing the exemplary embodiments, the
   letter a has been added to the reference numerals of the exemplary embodiment
15 in figures 1 to 14. In the exemplary embodiments of figures 15 to 25, the letter a
   has been substituted by the letters b to  j.
   Figure 15 shows a second wire netting 1Ob in a schematic front view. The second
   wire netting 10b comprises a plurality of helices 12b, which are braided with one
   another and at least one helix 12b of which is manufactured of a longitudinal
20 element 16b with a wire 18b. The longitudinal element 16b is in the present case
   embodied as a wire bundle with the wire 18b. The helix 12b comprises a first leg
   20b, a second leg 22b and a bending region 24b connecting the first leg 20b and
   the second leg 22b. In a front view perpendicularly to a main extension plane of
   the helix 12b, the first leg 20b extends with a first gradient angle 26b with respect
25 to a longitudinal direction 28b of the helix 12b.
   Figure 16 shows the bending region 24b of the helix 12b in a transverse view
   parallel to the main extension plane of the helix 12b and perpendicularly to the
   longitudinal direction 28b of the helix 12b. In the transverse view the bending
   region 24b at least section-wise extends with a second gradient angle 30b with

                                            - 52
   respect to the longitudinal direction 28b of the helix 12b, which differs from the first
   gradient angle 26b.
   In the present case the first gradient angle 26b is smaller than 450. The first
   gradient angle 26b is approximately 300. Due to the small first gradient angle 26b,
 5 the second wire netting 1Ob features wide meshes. The second wire netting 1Ob is
   configured to be rolled out transversely to a slope, in such a way that it is possible
   to lay out the second wire netting 10b transversely to the slope without
   interruptions over a large distance. In parallel to the slope, a height of such an
   installation is hence equivalent to a width of the second wire netting 10b,
10 respectively to a length of the helix 12b.
   The second gradient angle 30b is greater than the first gradient angle 26b. In the
   present case the second gradient angle 30b is approximately 450. Figure 17
   shows a third wire netting 1Oc in a schematic front view. The third wire netting 1Oc
   comprises a plurality of helices 12c, which are braided with one another and at
15 least one helix 12c of which is manufactured of a longitudinal element 16c with a
   wire 18c. The longitudinal element 16c is in the present case embodied as a wire
   strand with the wire 18c. The longitudinal element 16c comprises a plurality of
   wires 18c which are wound around one another and are embodied identically. The
   helix 12c comprises a first leg 20c, a second leg 22c and a bending region 24c
20 connecting the first leg 20c and the second leg 22c. In a front view perpendicularly
   to a main extension plane of the helix 12c, the first leg 20c extends with a first
   gradient angle 26c with respect to a longitudinal direction 28c of the helix 12c.
   Figure 18 shows the bending region 24c of the helix 12c in a transverse view
   parallel to the main extension plane of the helix 12c and perpendicularly to the
25 longitudinal direction 28c of the helix 12c. In the transverse view the bending
   region 24c at least section-wise extends with a second gradient angle 30c with
   respect to the longitudinal direction 28c of the helix 12c, which differs from the first
   gradient angle 26c.

                                             - 53
   In the present case the first gradient angle 26c is larger than 45'. The first gradient
   angle 26c is approximately 750. Due to the large first gradient angle 26c, the third
   wire netting 1Oc features narrow meshes. The wire netting 1Oc has hence a high
   tensile strength in a longitudinal direction of the meshes. The wire netting 10c is
 5 furthermore easier to stretch in a transverse direction of the meshes than in the
   longitudinal direction.
   The second gradient angle 30c is smaller than the first gradient angle 26c. In the
   present case the second gradient angle 30c is approximately 450.
   Figure 19 shows a helix 12d of a fourth wire netting, viewed in a longitudinal
10 direction of the helix 12d, in a schematic view. The helix 12d is manufactured of a
   longitudinal element 16d with at least one wire 18d. The helix 12d comprises a first
   leg 20d, a second leg 22d and a bending region 24d connecting the first leg 20d
   and the second leg 22d. In a longitudinal view in parallel to a longitudinal direction
   28d of the helix 12d, the bending region 24d comprises a bending zone 34d with a
15 bending curvature. In the longitudinal view the bending region 24d furthermore
   comprises a first transition zone 36d, which is connected to the first leg 20d, with a
   first transition curvature differing from the bending curvature. Moreover, in the
   longitudinal view the bending region 24d comprises a second transition zone 38d,
   which is connected to the second leg 22d, with a second transition curvature.
20 The first leg 20d features a curved contour. The first leg 20d is free of a straight
   contour. The bending zone 34d is curved in a circular-arc shape. The first
   transition curvature and the second transition curvature are identical.
   Figure 20 shows a helix 12e of a fifth wire netting, viewed in a longitudinal
   direction of the helix 12e, in a schematic view. The helix 12e is manufactured of a
25 longitudinal element 16e with at least one wire 18e. The helix 12e features a first
   leg 20e, a second leg 22e and a bending region 24e connecting the first leg 20e
   and the second leg 22e. In a longitudinal view, the bending region 24e comprises
   a bending zone 34e with a bending curvature. Furthermore, in the longitudinal
   view parallel to a longitudinal direction 28e of the helix 12e, the bending region

                                              - 54
   24e comprises a first transition zone 36e, which is connected to the first leg 20e,
   with a first transition curvature differing from the bending curvature. Moreover, in
   the longitudinal view the bending region 24e comprises a second transition zone
   38e, which is connected to the second leg 22e, with a second transition curvature.
 5 The first transition zone 36e section-wise follows a straight contour. The first
   transition zone 36e implements a portion of the first leg 20e. In the present case
   the first transition zone 36e implements half of the first leg 20e. The first transition
   zone 36e continuously merges into the first leg 20e. Analogously the second
   transition zone 38e implements half of the second leg 22e.
10 Figure 21 shows a spring characteristic curve 56f of a test piece of a helix of a
   sixth wire netting, in a schematic press path force diagram 58f. The spring
   characteristic curve 56f was created, analogously to the spring characteristic curve
   56a in the exemplary embodiment of figures 1 to 14, by pressing the test piece of
   the helix along a press path. The sixth wire netting is manufactured from a high
15 tensile steel wire with a wire diameter of 2 mm. The sixth wire netting features a
   leg length of approximately 65 mm.
   The spring characteristic curve 56f comprises, starting from a start of the press
   path, a first partial characteristic curve 60f extending approximately linearly and
   having a first gradient. The first partial characteristic curve 60f is followed by a
20 second partial characteristic curve 62f extending approximately linearly and having
   a second gradient, which is greater than the first gradient. In a transition region 68f
   between the first partial characteristic curve 60f and the second partial
   characteristic curve 62f, the spring characteristic curve 56f has a kink 70f.
   The second partial characteristic curve 62f is followed by a convexly curved third
25 partial characteristic curve 64f. A transition between the second partial
   characteristic curve 62f and the third partial characteristic curve 64f is free of a
   kink.

                                              - 55
   Figure 22 shows a spring characteristic curve 56g of a test piece of a helix of a
   seventh wire netting, in a schematic press path force diagram 58g. The spring
   characteristic curve 56g was obtained, analogously to the spring characteristic
   curve 56a in the exemplary embodiment of figures 1 to 14, via pressing the test
 5 piece of the helix along a press path. The seventh wire netting is manufactured of
   a high-tensile steel wire with a wire diameter of 2 mm. The seventh wire netting
   has a leg length of approximately 45 mm.
   The spring characteristic curve 56g comprises, starting from a start of the press
   path, a first partial characteristic curve 60g extending approximately linearly and
10 having a first gradient. The first partial characteristic curve 60g is followed by a
   second partial characteristic curve 62g, which extends approximately linearly and
   has a second gradient that is greater than the first gradient. In a transition region
   68g between the first partial characteristic curve 60g and the second partial
   characteristic curve 62g, the spring characteristic curve 56g has a kink 70g.
15 The second partial characteristic curve 62g is followed by a convexly curved third
   partial characteristic curve 64g. A transition between the second partial
   characteristic curve 62g and the third partial characteristic curve 64g is free of a
   kink.
   Figure 23 shows a spring characteristic curve 56h of a test piece of a helix of an
20 eighth wire netting, in a schematic press path force diagram 58h. The spring
   characteristic curve 56h was obtained, analogously to the spring characteristic
   curve 56a in the exemplary embodiment of figures 1 to 14, by pressing the test
   piece of the helix along a press path. The eighth wire netting is manufactured of a
   high-tensile steel wire with a wire diameter of 3 mm. The eighth wire netting
25 features a leg length of approximately 65 mm.
   Starting from a start of the press path, the spring characteristic curve 56h
   comprises a first partial characteristic curve 60h extending approximately linearly
   with a first gradient. The first partial characteristic curve 60h is followed by a
   second partial characteristic curve 62h extending approximately linearly with a

                                              - 56
   second gradient, which is greater than the first gradient. In a transition region 68h
   between the first partial characteristic curve 60h and the second partial
   characteristic curve 62h the spring characteristic curve 56h has a kink 70h.
   The second partial characteristic curve 62h is followed by a convexly curved third
 5 partial characteristic curve 64h. A transition between the second partial
   characteristic curve 62h and the third partial characteristic curve 64h is free of a
   kink.
   Figure 24 shows a spring characteristic curve 56i of a test piece of a helix of a
   ninth wire netting, in a schematic press path force diagram 58i. The spring
10 characteristic curve 56i was obtained, analogously to the spring characteristic
   curve 56a in the exemplary embodiment of figures 1 to 14, by pressing the test
   piece of the helix along a press path. The ninth wire netting is manufactured of a
   high-tensile steel wire with a wire diameter of 4 mm. The ninth wire netting
   features a leg length of approximately 80 mm.
15 Starting from a start of the press path, the spring characteristic curve 56i
   comprises a first partial characteristic curve 60i with a first gradient. The first
   partial characteristic curve 60i is followed by a second partial characteristic curve
   62i extending approximately linearly, with a second gradient which is greater than
   the first gradient. In a transition region 68i between the first partial characteristic
20 curve 60i and the second partial characteristic curve 62i, the spring characteristic
   curve 56i has a kink 70i.
   The second partial characteristic curve 62i is followed by a convexly curved third
   partial characteristic curve 64i. A transition between the second partial
   characteristic curve 62i and the third partial characteristic curve 64i is free of a
25 kink.
   Figure 25 shows a spring characteristic curve 56j of a test piece of a helix of a
   tenth wire netting, in a schematic press path force diagram 58j. The spring
   characteristic curve 56j was obtained, analogously to the spring characteristic

                                             - 57
   curve 56a in the exemplary embodiment of figures 1 to 14, by pressing the test
   piece of the helix along a press path. The tenth wire netting is manufactured from
   a high-tensile steel wire with a wire diameter of 4 mm. The tenth wire netting
   features a leg length of approximately 65 mm.
 5 Starting from a start of the press path, the spring characteristic curve 56j has a first
   partial characteristic curve 60j, extending approximately linearly and having a first
   gradient. The first partial characteristic curve 60j is followed by an approximately
   linearly extending second partial characteristic curve 62j with a second gradient
   which is greater than the first gradient. In a transition region 68j between the first
10 partial characteristic curve 60j and the second partial characteristic curve 62j, the
   spring characteristic curve 56j has a kink 70j.
   The second partial characteristic curve 62j is followed by a convexly curved third
   partial characteristic curve 64j. A transition between the second partial
   characteristic curve 62j and the third partial characteristic curve 64j is free of a
15 kink.

                                        - 58
Reference numerals
10   wire netting
12    helix
14    helix
16    longitudinal element
18   wire
20    leg
22    leg
24    bending region
26   gradient angle
28    longitudinal direction
30   gradient angle
32    bending region
34    bending zone
36   transition zone
38   transition zone
40    bending cylinder
42   test piece
44   transverse extension
46   test piece
48    plate
50    plate
52    press path
54   frontal direction
56   spring characteristic curve
58    press path-force diagram
60    partial characteristic curve curve
62    partial characteristic curve curve
64    partial characteristic curve curve
66    press path value range

                             - 59
68  transition zone
70  bend
72  press path value range
74  bending device
76  helix blank
78  bending unit
80  bending mandrel
82  bending table
84  feed unit
86  feed axis
88  feed direction
90  geometry-adjusting unit
92  transverse stroke unit
94  main extension direction
96  abutment unit
98  abutment element
100 abutment surface
102 pivot axis
104 holding unit
106 holding element
108 pivot axis
109 longitudinal axis
110 longitudinal axis
112 main extension direction
114 longitudinal axis
116 transition point
118 intersection angle
120 bending test device
122 clamping jaw
124 clamping jaw
126 bending cylinder

                                - 60
128 bending lever
130 driver
132 driver
133 bending distance
134 pressing device
136 press path axis
138 force axis
140 bending space
142 circulation direction
144 longitudinal axis
146 orientation element
148 conveying element
150 guiding table
152 guiding roll
154 guiding roll
156 transverse stroke direction
158 coupling element
160 transverse stroke
162 coupling element
164 belt
166 bending region
168 circular path
170 support pin
172 slotted link
174 slotted link
176 method step
178 method step
180 method step

                                                   61
CLAIMS
1.      A wire netting, such as a safety net, with a plurality of helices which are braided with
one another and at least one of which is manufactured of at least one single wire, a wire bundle, a
wire strand, a wire rope and/or other longitudinal element with at least one wire and which
comprises at least one first leg, at least one second leg and at least one bending region
connecting the first leg and the second leg to one another, wherein, in a front view
perpendicularly to a main extension plane of the helix, the first leg extends with at least one first
gradient angle with respect to a longitudinal direction of the helix, wherein, in a transverse view
in parallel to the main extension plane of the helix and perpendicularly to the longitudinal
direction of the helix, the bending region extends at least section-wise with a second gradient
angle with respect to the longitudinal direction of the helix, wherein the second gradient angle
differs from the first gradient angle, and wherein, in the transverse view, the bending region
follows at least section-wise an at least approximately straight contour.
2.      The wire netting according to claim 1, wherein the wire is at least partly made of a high
tensile steel.
3.      The wire netting according to claim 2, wherein the wire has a tensile strength of at least
800 N mm-2.
4.      The wire netting according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the second gradient
angle differs from the first gradient angle by at least 2.50, advantageously by at least 10'.
5.      The wire netting according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the second gradient
angle has a value between 25' and 65', advantageously between 40' and 50'.
6.      The wire netting according to one of the preceding claims, wherein, in the transverse
view, the helix follows at least section-wise a stepped course.
7.      The wire netting according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the first leg and/or the
second leg at least section-wise follows a straight contour.

                                                    62
8.       The wire netting according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the first leg extends at
least section-wise in a first plane and the second leg extends at least section-wise in a second
plane that is parallel to the first plane.
9.       The wire netting according to one of the preceding claims, comprising at least one further
helix with at least one further bending region, in a proximity of which the helix and the further
helix intersect at least substantially perpendicularly.
10.      The wire netting according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the second gradient
angle is smaller than the first gradient angle.
11.      The wire netting according to one claims 1 to 10, wherein the second gradient angle is
larger than the first gradient angle.
12.      The wire netting according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the first gradient
angle is larger than 45'.
13.      The wire netting according to one claims 1 to 12, wherein the first gradient angle is
smaller than 450.
14.      A method for manufacturing a helix for a wire netting, in particular for a safety net, in
particular according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the helix is manufactured of at least
one single wire, a wire bundle, a wire strand, a wire rope and/or other longitudinal element with
at least one wire, and wherein at least one first leg, at least one second leg and at least one
bending region of the helix connecting the first leg and the second leg to one another are
manufactured by way of bending, as a result of which, in a first view perpendicularly to a main
extension plane of the helix, the first leg and/or the second leg extends at least with a first
gradient angle with respect to a longitudinal direction of the helix, wherein the helix is
manufactured by bending in such a way that, in a second view in parallel to the main extension
plane of the helix and perpendicularly to the longitudinal direction of the helix, the bending
region extends at least section-wise with a second gradient angle with respect to the longitudinal
direction of the helix that differs from the first gradient angle, and wherein, in the transverse
view, the bending region follows at least section-wise an at least approximately straight contour.

                          63
                   Geobrugg AG
Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
             SPRUSON & FERGUSON

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702>
                                        <U+271E> <U+271F> <U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                                                 <U+2711><U+260E><U+2712>
                                                       <U+2711><U+2706><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                                                       <U+2711><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                                    <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270E>
                                           <U+2706><U+2706><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711><U+2714><U+2712>
                                  <U+2706><U+2713><U+2712>
                                 <U+2706><U+260E><U+2712>
                                                          <U+2711><U+260E><U+2704><U+2712>
                                                    <U+2711><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                   <U+2715><U+2713><U+2712>
                                    <U+2706><U+2714><U+2712>                             <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F>
                                    <U+2711><U+2711><U+2706><U+2712>                 <U+2711><U+2711><U+260E><U+2712>
                                                         <U+2706><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2711><U+260E><U+2704><U+2712>
                                                         <U+2706><U+2716><U+2712>
                           <U+2706><U+260E><U+2712>           <U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>               <U+2711><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                          <U+2711><U+2716><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711><U+2714><U+2712>
                                           <U+2706><U+2714><U+2712>                      <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D>

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702>
                                         <U+2702> <U+271F> <U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                                  <U+2715><U+2713><U+2712>                    <U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2712>
                                    <U+2706><U+260E><U+2712>                 <U+2711><U+2711><U+260E><U+2712>
                       <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                         <U+2706><U+2713><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2711><U+2706><U+2712>      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>                                <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2706>
                           <U+2711><U+2706><U+2712>                    <U+2715><U+2713><U+2712>
                             <U+2706><U+260E><U+2712>                         <U+2706><U+2706><U+2712> <U+2711><U+260E><U+2704><U+2712>
                <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>                               <U+2706><U+2713><U+2712>
                                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+2712>                    <U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2712>    <U+2706><U+2714><U+2712>
                                                                      <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+260E>
                             <U+2711><U+2711><U+260E><U+2712>
                                        <U+2706><U+260E><U+2712> <U+2706><U+2716><U+2712>
                 <U+2706><U+2714><U+2712>
                           <U+2711><U+2706><U+2712>                     <U+2706><U+2706><U+2712> <U+2706><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                  <U+2711><U+260E><U+2714><U+2712>
                                                                      <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2704>
                                        <U+2706><U+260E><U+2712>
                           <U+2711><U+2706><U+2712>                            <U+2706><U+2713><U+2712>
                                  <U+2706><U+2714><U+2712>                   <U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                                      <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2701>

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702>
                                         <U+2720> <U+271F> <U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>                 <U+2711><U+2706><U+2712> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                  <U+2715><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2712>
                               <U+2706><U+260E><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>                 <U+2706><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                            <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2706>
                                   <U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2712>
                           <U+2711><U+2706><U+2712>            <U+2711><U+2711><U+2714><U+2712>
                                 <U+2706><U+260E><U+2712>
                             <U+2711><U+2713><U+2712> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2712> <U+2706><U+2713><U+2712>              <U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+260E>
                            <U+2711><U+2706><U+2712>                     <U+2711><U+2713><U+2712>
                                   <U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>
                                 <U+271D><U+2706><U+2712>                <U+2706><U+2713><U+2712>
                                  <U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                            <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2704>
                                        <U+2706><U+2713><U+2712>           <U+2711><U+2713><U+2712>
                           <U+2711><U+2706><U+2712>
                                 <U+2706><U+260E><U+2712>
                                 <U+271D><U+2706><U+2712>
                                              <U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                            <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2701>

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702>
                                   <U+2702> <U+271F> <U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>                         <U+2715><U+2713><U+2712>
                                      <U+271D><U+2716><U+2712>
               <U+2711><U+2711><U+260E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2706><U+2712> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                                                    <U+271D><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                              <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                    <U+2706><U+2713><U+2712>
                             <U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>       <U+271D><U+2714><U+2712>
                                                             <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2701>
                       <U+2711><U+2706><U+260E><U+2712>
                                             <U+2711><U+2706><U+2714><U+2712>
                            <U+2711><U+271D><U+2706><U+2712>             <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+2712>
                       <U+2713><U+2706><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711><U+2714><U+2712>                        <U+2711><U+271D><U+271D><U+2712>
                       <U+2711><U+2706><U+2716><U+2712>                   <U+2713><U+260E><U+2712>
                           <U+2711><U+2706><U+2713><U+2712>               <U+2711><U+2706><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                             <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>

               <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702>
                                      <U+2702> <U+271F> <U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                                                           <U+2711><U+271D><U+2713><U+2712>
                            <U+2713><U+2716><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                              <U+2713><U+2714><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2712>                                              <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>        <U+2715><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                              <U+2715><U+260E><U+2712>
                                                                     <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2701>
                                                           <U+2715><U+2714><U+2712>
               <U+2711><U+271D><U+2714><U+2712>                                  <U+2716><U+2706><U+2712>
                                               <U+2716><U+2714><U+2712>                  <U+2716><U+2713><U+2712>
                                      <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712>                         <U+2711><U+2711><U+2716><U+2712>
                              <U+2716><U+260E><U+2712>
                                                                  <U+2704><U+260E><U+2712>
                                                              <U+2711><U+271D><U+2716><U+2712>
                                <U+2716><U+2716><U+2712>              <U+2704><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                                     <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702>
                                   <U+2701> <U+271F> <U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>           <U+2711><U+2713><U+260E><U+2712>             <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711><U+2715><U+2716><U+2712>
                             <U+2704><U+2706><U+2712>                  <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>
                    <U+2704><U+2714><U+2712>
              <U+2714><U+260E><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+2711><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2712>
                                        <U+2711><U+2716><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                   <U+2714><U+2714><U+2712>
              <U+2704><U+2716><U+2712>
                                                          <U+2714><U+2716><U+2712>
                                                         <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270E>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702>
                      <U+271F> <U+271E><U+2720>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702>
                      <U+271F> <U+271E><U+2720>

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702>
                                      <U+271F> <U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                                <U+2711><U+260E><U+2713><U+2712>
                          <U+2704><U+2714><U+2712>          <U+2711><U+260E><U+2716><U+2712>           <U+2711><U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                              <U+2711><U+2716><U+2714><U+2712>
<removed-apn>    <U+2711><U+2704><U+260E><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+260E><U+2714><U+2712><U+2717><U+2711><U+260E><U+2706><U+2712>                                        <U+2704><U+2716><U+2712>
                                                             <U+2711><U+2704><U+2706><U+2712>
                                <U+2714><U+2706><U+2712>
                                             <U+2711><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                             <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270D>
                                                   <U+2711><U+2704><U+2716><U+2712>
                                                   <U+2711><U+2704><U+2714><U+2712>
                                                   <U+2711><U+2714><U+260E><U+2712>
                                                             <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270E>

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702>
                                        <U+271E> <U+271F> <U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                                <U+2711><U+260E><U+2701>          <U+2706><U+2713><U+2701>
                                         <U+2706><U+260E><U+2701> <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2716><U+2701><U+2717><U+2711><U+2714><U+2701>                                              <U+2711><U+2706><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                                                 <U+2706><U+2716><U+2701>
                                <U+2706><U+2714><U+2701>
                                                                     <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270E>
                                <U+2706><U+260E><U+2701>          <U+2706><U+2713><U+2701>
                        <U+2711><U+2706><U+2701>                           <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>
                          <U+271D><U+260E><U+2701>
                                        <U+2706><U+2714><U+2701>                          <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270E><U+2701>
                                              <U+2711><U+260E><U+2702>
                                      <U+2706><U+260E><U+2702>       <U+2706><U+2713><U+2702>
                    <U+2711><U+2716><U+2702><U+2717><U+2711><U+2714><U+2702>                                    <U+2711><U+2706><U+2702>
                                                             <U+2706><U+2706><U+2702>
                                                            <U+2706><U+2716><U+2702>
                                            <U+2706><U+2714><U+2702>                      <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270E>

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702>
                                    <U+271E><U+271E> <U+271F> <U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                             <U+2706><U+260E><U+2702>         <U+2706><U+2713><U+2702>
                    <U+2711><U+2706><U+2702>                               <U+2706><U+2706><U+2702>
                      <U+271D><U+260E><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                     <U+2706><U+2714><U+2702>                     <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270E><U+2701>
                            <U+2711><U+2706>     <U+2706><U+260E>                 <U+271D><U+2716>
                                                            <U+271D><U+2713>
                                                            <U+2706><U+2713>
                             <U+2706><U+2706>
                                   <U+2711><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2711><U+2714>             <U+271D><U+2714>
                                                             <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270E>
                                               <U+271D><U+2716> <U+2701>
                           <U+2711><U+2706><U+2701>     <U+2706><U+260E><U+2701>
                                                            <U+271D><U+2713><U+2701>
                                                            <U+2706><U+2713><U+2701>
                             <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>
                               <U+2711><U+2716><U+2701><U+2717><U+2711><U+2714><U+2701>         <U+271D><U+2714><U+2701>
                                                             <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F>

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702>
                                    <U+271E><U+2702> <U+271F> <U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                                                        <U+2715><U+2714>
                                   <U+2716><U+2706>
                              <U+2715><U+2716> <U+2716><U+2714>                          <U+2716><U+2713>
                           <U+2716><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
                                           <U+2704><U+260E>                             <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F><U+270E>
                                                         <U+2715><U+2714>      <U+2701>
                                         <U+2716><U+2706>         <U+2701>
                                    <U+2715><U+2716> <U+2716><U+2714>
                                       <U+2701>
                                                <U+2701>
                                                                 <U+2716><U+2713>
                           <U+2716><U+260E>   <U+2701>
                                                                     <U+2701>
                                                <U+2704><U+260E><U+2701>
                                                                          <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F><U+270F>
                                                         <U+2715><U+2714>      <U+2702>
                                    <U+2715><U+2716> <U+2702>    <U+2716><U+2714>  <U+2702>
                                                                 <U+2716><U+2713>
                           <U+2716><U+260E>   <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                        <U+2716><U+2706>   <U+2702>
                                                 <U+2704><U+260E><U+2702>
                                                                          <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F><U+270D>

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702>
                            <U+271E><U+2720> <U+271F> <U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                                                                <U+2715><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
                                    <U+2715><U+2716>       <U+2716><U+2714>
                           <U+2716><U+260E>                                           <U+2716><U+2713>
                                                               <U+2716><U+2706>
                                                  <U+2704><U+260E>
                                                                                 <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F>
                                                                        <U+2715><U+2714>   <U+2701>
                                    <U+2715><U+2716>       <U+2716><U+2714>   <U+2701>
                                                                        <U+2716><U+2713>
                           <U+2716><U+260E>
                                         <U+2701>
                                                                         <U+2701>
                                                               <U+2716><U+2706>
                                <U+2701>
                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2704><U+260E>   <U+2701>
                                                                                 <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F>

