ABSTRACT
A humidification breathing apparatus for generating and delivering humidified air to a patient at a
desired humidity proximate the patient, the apparatus comprising an air flow path and a
controller for controlling operation of the humidification breathing apparatus, wherein the
controller is configured to operate the humidification breathing apparatus to control humidity at
a point in the flow path to achieve the desired delivered humidity proximate the patient based on
the patient exhaled humidity and flow.

                       2/9
       -cDn4-U                        CN
              I     -         0
                L   0
                   C:
                                  LO-    E
           (00
                  10
    U)      C)      4-Co4
         0          C          Cc
   -a
     U)     ~)        :         C   *
         E
         m        Co
                          -0   C
0)                a    a)
                       >-   L
                              a)q~j       U!B

                    HUMIDIFICATION BREATHING APPARATUS CONTROL
   FIELD OF INVENTION
   The present invention relates to humidification breathing apparatus and their control to provide
   humidified air to a patient at a desired humidity and temperature
 5 BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
   In breathing apparatus that provide humidification, the intention is to provide humidified air to
   the patient at a desired humidity and/or temperature to achieve the desired patient comfort
   and/or therapy. Providing the desired humidity and/or temperature requires achieving and
   maintaining the humidity and/or temperature of humidified air at the patient (that is, in the
10 vicinity of the patient's mouth and/or nose) as this is the humidity and temperature of air that is
   ultimately passed to the patient. (NB: "in the vicinity" can also be termed "at or near" or
   "proximate".) In theory, this involves heating and/or humidifying air that passes through the
   flow path of the breathing apparatus from the flow generator to the patient (via e.g. the conduit
   and patient interface) until the desired humidity and/or temperature proximate the patient is
15 achieved and maintained.
   However, while controlling the humidity and/or temperature proximate the patient is possible, it
   is technically and economically difficult. For example, using sensors to detect the humidity
   and/or temperature of humidified air proximate the patient is expensive and has technical and
   health difficulties. Therefore, traditionally it is not the humidity and/or temperature of the
20 humidified air proximate the patient that is controlled, but rather the humidity and/or
   temperature of humidified air at some other point in the flow path, being a point that is easier to
   monitor. A target temperature and/or humidity is determined for a particular point (such as the
   humidifier outlet or the end of the conduit/hose), and it is that temperature and/or humidity that
   is controlled. The difficulty with this approach is that achieving and maintaining the target
25 temperature and/or humidity at the point in the flow path does not guarantee that the desired
   humidity and/or temperature are achieved proximate to the patient and delivered to them. The
   humidity and/or temperature of humidified air can change by the time it reaches the patient. For
   example, if the temperature and/or humidity of air at the end of the conduit is kept at a target,
   the humidity and temperature fluctuations provided in the patient interface mean that the actual
30 temperature and/or humidity delivered to the patient via the patient interface varies in a
   unknown manner from that at the end of the hose. This makes it difficult to know the actual
                                                        1

   temperature/humidity of air at the patient and makes it difficult to deliver the desired
   temperature and/or humidity of humidified air to the patient.
   SUMMARY OF INVENTION
 5 It is an object of the invention to provide a humidification breathing apparatus and/or method of
   operation that controls humidity and/or temperature of humidified air in a flow path in a manner
   that improves the ability to deliver humidified air to the patient at the desired humidity and/or
   temperature.
   In one aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a humidification breathing
10 apparatus for generating and delivering humidified air to a patient at a desired humidity
   proximate the patient, the apparatus comprising: an air flow path, and a controller for controlling
   operation of the humidification breathing apparatus, wherein the controller is configured to
   operate the humidification breathing apparatus to control humidity at a point in the flow path to
   achieve the desired delivered humidity proximate the patient based on the patient exhaled
15 humidity and flow.
   Preferably the apparatus further comprises a conduit coupled to a patient interface that form part
   of the flow path.
20 Preferably the point in the flow path where the controller is configured to control humidity is at
   or near the patient interface end of the conduit.
   Preferably the patient interface is a mask and the controller controls the humidity at the point in
   the flow path to achieve a target humidity calculated from patient exhaled humidity and flow, the
25 relationship between target humidity, patient exhaled humidity and flow being based on the
   balance of water vapour mass flow into and out of the mask.
   Preferably the water vapour mass flow is:
30
                         ms         mip      +M   mc   ,[mg  H20   sec']             (14)
                      flow out            flow in

   Where:
                                                                                    HO
             The water vapour mass flow out averaged over 1 breathing cycle (          equals the
   amount of water vapour present in air mixed in the mask and goes out through the exhaust/bias
   holes.
                                                                                           M1P
 5           The water vapour mass flow from patient averaged over 1 breathing cycle             is a
   function of CPAP delivered humidity, patient exhaled humidity and patient peak flow.
             The water vapour mass flow from the CPAP apparatus averaged over 1 breathing cycle
      . H2 0
     InC
               is a function of CPAP delivered humidity and average/bias flow and peak flow.
10
   Preferably the relationship is defined by:
                                                     EOH_AH =f(A, J,    Mh,  hp)       (5)
15
   Where
              hp is the humidity provided by the patient (exhalation) into the mask
             A is the peak flow of the patient
             JB is the  average flow (bias plus leak flow)
20           Mh is the mask humidity
              EOHAH is the end of hose (absolute) humidity
   Preferably the relationship is defined by:
    EOH_         lAH = (Mask _ AH -(A(JB       * pi))*Patient AH)/(I-A(JB *pi))            (6)
25 where

            A is the patient peak flow
           J is the average flow
            PatientT and PatientAH are the temperature and humidity of the air exhaled by the
   patient.
 5
   Preferably the point in the flow path where the controller is configured to control humidity is at
   or near the humidifier outlet.
   Preferably the apparatus comprises a flow sensor to sense the flow.
10
   Preferably the flow comprises one or more characteristics of flow, being one or more of:
            average flow rate,
            peak flow rate,
            tidal volume.
15
   Preferably patient exhaled humidity is one or more of:
            a predetermined value,
            a sensed value using a sensor,
            a calculated value from one or more of: BMI, height, weight, body volume or any other
20 suitable physiological patient characteristic.
   Preferably the controller is configured to operate the humidifier to control humidity by
   controlling a heater plate temperature, for example by controlling the duty cycle of the power
   supplied to the heater plate.
25
   Preferably the controller is further configured to operate the humidification breathing apparatus
   to control humidity based on mask information, for example, mask internal volume.
   In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a method of generating and
30 delivering humidified air to a patient at a desired humidity proximate the patient comprising
   operating a humidification breathing apparatus to control humidity at a point in a flow path to
   achieve the desired delivered humidity proximate the patient based on the patient exhaled
   humidity and flow.
                                                      4

   Preferably controlling humidity at the point in the flow path is to achieve a target humidity
   calculated from patient exhaled humidity and flow, the relationship between target humidity,
   patient exhaled humidity and flow being based on the balance of water vapour mass flow into
   and out of the mask.
 5
   In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a humidification breathing
   apparatus for generating and delivering humidified air to a patient at a desired humidity
   proximate the patient, the apparatus comprising: an air flow path, and a controller for controlling
   operation of the humidification breathing apparatus ,wherein the controller is configured to
10 operate the humidification breathing apparatus to control humidity at a point in the flow path to
   achieve the desired delivered humidity proximate the patient based on the patient exhaled
   humidity and flow, and wherein the controller is configured to operate the humidification
   breathing apparatus to control temperature at a point in the flow path to achieve the desired
   delivered temperature proximate the patient based on the patient exhaled temperature and flow.
15
   In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a method of generating and
   delivering humidified air to a patient at a desired humidity proximate the patient comprising:
   operating a humidification breathing apparatus to control humidity at a point in a flow path to
   achieve the desired delivered humidity proximate the patient based on the patient exhaled
20 humidity and flow, and operating a humidification breathing apparatus to control temperature at
   a point in the flow path to achieve the desired delivered temperature proximate the patient based
   on the patient exhaled temperature and flow.
   In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a humidification breathing
25 apparatus for generating and delivering humidified air to a patient at a desired temperature
   proximate the patient comprising: an air flow path, and         a controller for controlling
   operation of the humidification breathing apparatus, wherein the controller is configured to
   operate the humidification breathing apparatus to control temperature at a point in the flow path
   to achieve the desired delivered temperature proximate the patient based on the patient exhaled
30 temperature and flow.
   Preferably the apparatus further comprises a conduit coupled to a patient interface that form part
   of the flow path.

   Preferably the point in the flow path where the controller is configured to control temperature is
   at or near the patient interface end of the conduit.
   Preferably the patient interface is a mask and the humidifier controls the temperature at the point
 5 in the flow path to achieve a target temperature calculated from patient exhaled temperature and
   flow, the relationship between target temperature, patient exhaled temperature and flow being
   based on the balance of heat flow into and out of the mask.
   Preferably the heat flow is:
10
                       qM     + q         =  q,   +qc    [1 sec-]                  (15)
                       average "heat" out           in
                                                "heat"
   Where
            The heat out comprises the heat energy carried by the air flow out through the bias
15 holes JE (function of mask temperature and average flow) and also the heat lost to the ambient
   through the mask surface (function of mask temperature, ambient temperature and the heat loss
   coefficient through the mask).
            The heat in comprises the heat energy carried by CPAP flow (function of average flow,
20 peak flow and CPAP delivered temperature) and the heat energy carried by patient flow into the
   mask (function of patient exhaled temperature, CPAP delivered temperature and patient peak
   flow).
   Preferably the relationship is defined by:
25
                                          EOHT =f(A,J, M,Tp,T)                            (11)
   Where
            TP is the temperature provided by the patient (exhalation) into the mask
            A is the peak flow of the patient
30          Jais the average flow (bias plus leak flow)

            T is ambient temperature as measured by e.g. a sensor
            Mtis the mask temperature
            EOHT is the end of hose temperature
 5 Preferably the relationship is defined by
   EOH_T =(MaskT*(1+8)-(A(JB *pj))*PatientT-*Amb_7T1/1-AIB *pi))                            (12)
   Where
                      kg. S
               O= k f         JBI
                       PC,
10          kaff is the effective heat conduction coefficient through the mask,
            S is the surface area of the mask
            Cp and p refer to the air specific heat and (average) density at constant (average) process
   pressure
            A is the patient peak flow
15          J is the  average flow
            PatientT and PatientAH are the temperature and humidity of the air exhaled by the
   patient.
   Preferably the point in the flow path where the controller is configured to control temperature is
20 at or near the humidifier outlet.
   Preferably the apparatus further comprises a flow sensor to sense the flow.
   Preferably the flow comprises one or more characteristics of flow, being one or more of:
25          average flow rate,
            peak flow rate,
            tidal volume.
   Preferably patient exhaled temperature is one or more of:
30          a predetermined value,
                                                       7

            a sensed value using a sensor,
            a calculated value from one or more of: BMI, height, weight, body volume or any other
   suitable physiological patient characteristic.
 5 Preferably the controller is configured to operate the humidifier to control temperature by
   controlling energising a heater in the conduit or alternatively by energising a heater plate
   apparatus, to heat the delivered humidified air.
   Preferably the controller is further configured to operate the humidifier to control temperature
10 based input air temperature, and optionally wherein the input air temperature is ambient air
   temperature or a predetermined value.
   Preferably the controller is further configured to operate the humidification breathing apparatus
   to control humidity based on mask information, optionally wherein the mask information is one
15 or more of:
            mask internal volume,
            mask surface area,
            mask material.
20 In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a method of generating and
   delivering humidified air to a patient at a desired temperature proximate the patient comprising
   operating a humidification breathing apparatus to control temperature at a point in the flow path
   to achieve the desired delivered temperature proximate the patient based on the patient exhaled
   temperature and flow.
25
   Preferably the temperature at the point in the flow path is to achieve a target temperature
   calculated from patient exhaled temperature and flow, the relationship between target
   temperature, patient exhaled temperature and flow being based on the balance of heat flow into
   and out of the mask.
30
   In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a humidification breathing
   apparatus with a flow path for delivering humidified air to a patient at a desired humidity
   proximate the patient, wherein the humidifier comprises a controller configured to control
   humidity at a point in the flow path to achieve the desired delivered humidity proximate the
35 patient based on the contribution a patient makes to humidity.
                                                      q

   In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a method of controlling a
   humidification breathing apparatus to deliver a desired humidity to a patient comprising receiving
   input on patient exhaled humidity and flow and operating the humidification breathing apparatus
 5 to provide an output humidity based on the patient exhaled humidity and flow.
   In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a humidification breathing
   apparatus with a flow path for delivering humidified air to a patient at a desired temperature
   proximate the patient, wherein the humidifier comprises a controller configured to control
10 temperature at a point in the flow path to achieve the desired delivered temperature proximate
   the patient based on the contribution a patient makes to temperature.
   In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a method of controlling a
   humidification breathing apparatus to deliver a desired temperature to a patient comprising
15 receiving input on patient exhaled temperature and flow and operating the humidification
   breathing apparatus to provide an output temperature based on the patient exhaled temperature
   and flow.
   In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other external
20 documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of providing a
   context for discussing the features of the disclosure.        Unless specifically stated otherwise,
   reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission that such
   documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form part of the
   common general knowledge in the art.
25
   The term "comprising" as used in this specification means "consisting at least in part of". When
   interpreting each statement in this specification that includes the term "comprising", features
   other than that or those prefaced by the term may also be present. Related terms such as
   "comprise" and "comprises" are to be interpreted in the same manner.
30
   To those skilled in the art to which the invention relates, many changes in construction and
   widely differing embodiments and applications of the invention will suggest themselves without
   departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. The disclosures
   and the descriptions herein are purely illustrative and are not intended to be in any sense limiting.
35
                                                      Q

   Where specific integers are mentioned herein which have known equivalents in the art to which
   this invention relates, such known equivalents are deemed to be incorporated herein as if
   individually set forth.
 5 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to the following drawings,
   of which:
   Figure 1A is a schematic diagram of a humidification breathing apparatus that provides
   humidified air to a patient along a flow path that has downstream contributions that alter
10 humidity and/or temperature of humidified air.
   Figure 1B is a schematic diagram showing general humidification breathing apparatus control.
   Figure 2 is a detailed schematic diagram of a CPAP apparatus with a humidifier that provides
   pressurised humidified air to a patient.
   Figure 3 is a high level schematic generalisation of a humidification breathing apparatus such as
15 that shown in Figure 2 that provides humidified air to a patient according to one embodiment.
   Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of humidification breathing apparatus control
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a target temperature and humidity model used in the control
   shown in Figure 4.
   Figures 6A, 6B are schematic diagrams showing the flow balance in the mask of a humidification
20 breathing apparatus.
   Figure 7 shows a sine wave approximation of breath flow.
   Figure 8 is a schematic diagram of a target humidity model, which may form part of the model in
   Figure 5.
   Figure 9 is a schematic diagram of a target temperature model, which may form part of the model
25 in Figure 5.
   Figure 10 is a schematic process flow diagram of the overall humidification breathing apparatus
   control.
                                                     1iA

   Figure 11A, 11 B are schematic diagrams showing the flow balance in the mask of a
   humidification breathing apparatus.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS.
   Overview of invention
 5 The present invention relates to a humidification breathing apparatus and method of its
   operation for supplying humidified air to a patient. The specification of the priority application
   US 61/707629 is incorporated herein by reference into this specification in its entirety. The
   humidification breathing apparatus could be a humidifier on its own, or a humidifier combined
   with other hardware to provide additional breathing assistance, such as a CPAP (continuous
10 positive airway pressure) apparatus, Auto titration apparatus, bi-level apparatus or other PAP
   apparatus operating at e.g. 3to 20cm H 2 0 or similar or high flow breathing apparatus with a
   humidifier. The humidification breathing apparatus and its method of operation generates and
   delivers humidified air to a patient at (also deemed to mean "or close to") a desired humidity
   and/or temperature. The humidification breathing apparatus and its method of operation aim to
15 achieve a desired humidity and/or temperature of the humidified air is that actually delivered to
   the patient. That is, the humidification breathing apparatus and method of operation control the
   humidity and/or temperature of humidified air in the air flow path such that the humidified air
   proximate/proximal (that is at or near) the patient is at the desired humidity and/or temperature.
   Referring to Figure 1A, the humidification breathing apparatus has air humidification capabilities
20 (box 10), comprising a humidifier for humidification 10a, flow generator 10b and controller 10c,
   along with hardware for other capabilities such as CPAP or the like. A flow path 11 delivers
   humidified air 13 to the patient 12. The flow path is shown separate to the breathing apparatus
   box 10, but it can be considered part of the breathing apparatus, and the flow path can include
   parts of the hardware itself, such as internal ducting and air paths within the humidifier. The
25 patient interface can also be considered part of the flow path and humidification breathing
   apparatus in general. In general terms, the temperature and/or humidity of humidified air 13 is
   controlled at some point (target point) 14 in the humidification breathing apparatus flow path.
   Models of the downstream contributions 15 to humidity and/or temperature provided by
   components and inputs (e.g. patient inputs) further down the remaining parts of the flow path
30 (ending at the patient) are determined and target temperature/humidity models are devised and
   implemented in the controller 10c.
                                                      11

   A target temperature and/or humidity at the target point is determined from the models. This
   target temperature and/or humidity is determined using the models such that if the target
   temperature and/or humidity is reached, the remaining contributions 15 to humidity and
   temperature from downstream influences bring the actual temperature and/or humidity
 5 proximate the patient to (or close to) the desired values. The humidification breathing apparatus
   and/or any peripheral components (such as fans, heated tubes, masks and the like) are operated
   to control the humidity and/or temperature of humidified air passing through the humidification
   breathing apparatus flow path so that the target temperature and/or humidity at the target point
   are achieved and maintained.
10 The target temperature and/or humidity of the air in the flow path can be achieved using any of
   the usual control methods for a humidification breathing apparatus, such as using closed loop
   feedback (using sensors or the like) or using models or other predictive mechanisms.
   Referring to Figure 1B, humidification breathing apparatus control 18 is provided to achieve the
   required desired temperature and humidity at the patient. The control comprises (parameter)
15 models 16 for determining relevant values of parameters that must be achieved to deliver the
   desired temperature and humidity at the patient, and control functionality (e.g. in the form of
   models/equations) 17 to operate the humidification apparatus to achieve those parameter values.
   The models comprise patient contribution/target parameter models 16, and humidification
   breathing apparatus control models for e.g. controlling the apparatus heater plate temperature
20 and breathing tube heater power. The humidification breathing apparatus control 18 among
   other things uses ambient temperature 19a, user settings 19b, ambient humidity 19c, and patient
   feedback comprising patient flow 19f, patient temperature 19d, patient humidity 19e. Control
   output parameters 20, signals or other control mechanisms are output 20, such as heater plate
   temperature 20a and heated breathing tube power 20b, which are used to control the
25 humidification breathing apparatus operation to achieve the desired temperature and humidity at
   the patient.
    In calculating the target temperature/humidity the relevant model(s) in effect takes into account
   the contribution of the patient to the humidity and temperature of the humidified air. The
   contribution may be due, for example, to the temperature and/or humidity of the patient breath
30 and also breath flow characteristics (also termed "flow"
    or "patient flow" or "flow characteristics" ). Other parameters can optionally be used also,
   including those relating to the mask type itself. For example, a parameter(s) could comprise mask
   internal volume, mask surface area, and/or mask material. Using the patient contribution, the
                                                      12

   controller 109 (see Figure 3) can calculate the required target temperature and/or humidity of the
   air at some other point in the air flow path which if achieved will achieve the desired parameters
   of humidified air at/delivered to the patient.
 5 1        First embodiment of invention
   1.1      Overview
   A possible non-limiting embodiment of a humidification breathing apparatus is shown in
   overview in Figures 2 to 4. In this case, it is a CPAP apparatus 1 with integrated humidifier as
   shown in Figure 2. It will be appreciated that any sort of breathing apparatus that provides
10 humidification could be used, including a flow therapy apparatus with humidification or even a
   humidifier alone.
   Figure 2 shows a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a humidification breathing
   apparatus 1, comprising a PAP apparatus 100 for delivering a supply of breathing gases, a
   breathing conduit 101, which comprises a heater, and a patient interface 102.
15
   The breathing conduit 101 (also called a "hose" or "tube" ) extends from an outlet in the PAP
   apparatus 100 and to the patient interface 102. The patient interface may be any suitable sealing
   patient interface such as a full face mask, nasal mask, direct nasal mask, oral mask or the like,
   with bias flow holes for a bias flow rate that is kept constant during both the inhalation and
20 exhalation phases by maintaining constant pressure at the mask.
   The PAP apparatus comprises a blower 103. The blower preferably comprises a fan driven by an
   electric motor. Air is drawn into the PAP apparatus through the inlet 104 by the fan. Pressurised
   air leaves the fan for supply to the patient. Alternatively, controllable flow generators may draw
25 on a source of high pressure gas, and regulate a flow of gas from the high pressure source.
   The PAP apparatus comprises a humidifier 115. In alternative embodiments, the humidifier 115
   may be separate from the PAP apparatus and part of the PAP apparatus. The humidifier 115 as
   shown is a pass over type humidifier where air passing through the humidifier picks up a quantity
30 of water vapour from a reservoir of water 107. The water reservoir is heated by a heater 108. The
   humidifier is preferably integrated into the housing of the PAP apparatus. Alternatively the
   humidifier may be a separate component within the housing of the PAP apparatus or separate
   from the PAP apparatus with a conduit connecting between the PAP apparatus and the
                                                      1't

   humidifier. Other types of humidifiers, other than a pass over type may be used. In some forms
   multiple humidifiers may used. The humidified air leaves the end of heated breathing tube 101
   (later referred as end of hose, EOH), it is mixed with the patients' exhaled breathe and then flows
   out of the bias hole on a nasal, full face or oral mask 102. In some embodiments a non heated
 5 breathing tube could be used instead.
   The PAP apparatus comprises a controller 109. The controller 109 is used to control the
   humidification breathing apparatus, including the PAP apparatus, tube heater 101a, and other
   peripherals. It also operates the model(s) of the present invention. The controller receives inputs
10 from a user interface (UI) 113 and sensors. The user interface could be in the form of any
   suitable user interface such as a knob, a plurality of buttons, a screen or any combination thereof.
   The user interface allows the PAP apparatus to display information to the user and also allows a
   user to input information to the PAP apparatus, more particularly to the controller. The
   controller may also be provided with an interface 114 for connecting to an external data source.
15
   The controller comprises inputs for receiving inputs from one or more sensors (such as 112, 110,
   201, 111, 117, 119 as shown), which can comprise temperature, flow, humidity and/or pressure
   sensors upstream or downstream to the fan or outside the apparatus. As shown a flow sensor
   determines the flow characteristics (such as volume, velocity or phase) of gases supplied to the
20 patient or user. The flow sensor may be positioned upstream 110 or downstream 111, 112 to the
   fan. Ambient temperature and humidity sensors 201, 110 can also be used - which can be at the
   blower inlet, humidifier inlet or any other suitable location. Optionally end of hose 112 and/or
   mask 117 temperature and/or humidity sensors can be used as required.            Optionally a heater
   plate temperature sensor 119 is used. The sensors shown are one configuration of sensors that
25 can be used. Any other configuration of sensors and any other types of sensors may be used.
   There may be fewer or more sensors than those shown. Sensors can be provided in any suitable
   location to sense any of flow, humidity, temperature and/or pressure or the like of the patient
   (e.g. patient exhaled flow measured in the mask or at any other suitable point), humidified or
   unhumidified flow at any point in the flow path, ambient surroundings or at any other point in
30 the apparatus or peripheral components. The apparatus is powered by a power supply.
   The humidification breathing apparatus comprises an air flow path 30, which can comprise any
   part in which air 13 flow travels. That can comprise the blower inlet, the blower 103, ducting to
   the humidifier 118, flow path through the water chamber 115, outlet ducts from the water
35 chamber, the conduit 101 and the patient interface 102.           In this embodiment, the desired
                                                      14

   temperature and humidity is that in the mask near the patient's nose/mouth - this is the
   temperature and humidity that will be delivered to the patient. The target point is a suitable point
   in that air flow path, which in this embodiment is the end of the conduit (termed "end of hose"
   31 see Figure 3), as this is a point in the flow path in which humidity and/or temperature can be
 5 controlled to a target value. The patient interface is a full face, nasal or oral mask. The mask 102
   itself and the patient provide contributions such that the humidity and/or temperature at the end
   of the conduit differ from those proximate the patient (that is, in the mask and near the
   mouth/nose). Due to e.g. the heat loss from the end of hose to the mask and also due to the
   addition of humidity and heat from patient's exhalation into the mask space, the relative humidity
10 of the air in the mask can be much higher than the end of the hose. This can cause condensation
   in the mask if the relative humidity exceeds 100%.
   Referring to Figure 3, the humidification apparatus of Figure 2 is modelled as an apparatus with
   an air flow path 30 and downstream patient/mask contributions that effect humidity and
15 temperature of air flow. The patient contributions (and/or optionally mask contributions) are
   used to derive models that determine the target temperature and/or humidity at the end of the
   conduit (based on inputs) that will result in the desired mask temperature and humidity.
   Referring to Figure 4, which is an embodiment of the general case shown in Figure 1B, the
   controller implements (among other functionality) the models 40 as part of an overall humidifier
20 control program 41 to determine target temperature and/or humidity at the target point 31 (that
   will achieve the desired temperature and humidity in the mask) and to control the heater plate
   108 and breathing tube power 101a to achieve/maintain the target temperature and/or humidity
   at the target point 31. The desired temperature and humidity (that is mask humidity and
   temperature) are taken as inputs into the model 42d, 42e (desired mask temperature and
25 humidity). Also taken as inputs can be one or more of ambient temperature 19a, ambient
   humidity 19c, average flow 42a, patient peak flow or tidal volume 42b, and optionally mask type
   42c, patient temperature 19d, patient humidity 19e and the like
   The target temperature and/or humidity of the air in the flow path can be achieved using any of
   the usual control methods for a humidification breathing apparatus, such as using closed loop
30 feedback (using sensors or the like) or using models or other predictive mechanisms. The target
   temperature and/or humidity are achieved in this embodiment using heater plate temperature
   settings and heated breathing tube power settings. These will be described later with reference to
   Figure 10.

   In this embodiment, the controller is configured to determine both a target temperature and
   humidity and is configured to achieve/maintain these both at the target point. However, in
   alternative embodiments, the controller might be programmed to only determine and achieve a
   target temperature, or to determine and achieve a target humidity, instead of both. Where both
 5 target temperature and humidity are required, the controller could be configured with a single
   model to determine and control both, or separate models to determine and control each
   separately (as is the case with the present embodiment). Where only one of target temperature or
   humidity are required, a separate model is used.
   1.2 Detailed description of first embodiment
10 The embodiment will now be described in more detail with reference to Figures 5 to 10.
   1.2.1 General description of target temperature and humidity model
   The present embodiment uses separate models to determine the target temperature and humidity,
   so that these parameters can be determined and controlled in separate implementations.
   However, first a brief description of a combined target temperature and humidity model will be
15 described with reference to Figures 5 and 6A, 6B for overview purposes and also to support the
   discussion on how the models are derived. (Figure 5 is a simplified version of the model shown
   in Figure 4 as part of the overall control.) Following that, a detailed description of the separate
   models is provided for determining target temperature and humidity. But this is only provided for
   illustrative purposes and should not be considered limiting.
20 As noted previously, in this embodiment, the desired temperature is the temperature in the mask,
   and is termed "mask temperature (Mt) or (MaskT)". The desired humidity is the humidity in the
   mask and is termed "mask (absolute) humidity (Mh) or (maskAH)". These are specified by
   patient/physician settings or determined using measured parameters or determined using a
   combination of both. Determination of these parameters is described later. Referring to Figure
25 5, once determined,   Mh,  Mt become known parameters that are inputs 42d, 42e into a target
   humidity and temperature model 50 that is based on (a "reverse") of the patient contribution
   model for humidity and temperature, along with other inputs to produce the end of conduit
   (hose) (target) humidity (EOHAH) 44b and temperature (EOHT) 44a. The inputs to the
   model 50 also optionally include patient-temperature 19d and patientabsolute humidity (AH)
30 19e - being the temperature and humidity of the air exhaled by the patient. Rather than direct
   inputs these can be included intrinsically in the model (as is the case in Figure 5), but can still be
   considered model inputs. As an example, average values obtained from literature (e.g. 34 0 C,
                                                     1r

   85%, 32mg/L) could be used. Also, mask type or mask parameters can be an input to the model,
   where the mask type is detected by CPAP or entered by user. But, in an alternative
   implementation, an average mask type is used to simplify the model. Alternatively, the values can
   be calculated using physiological patient characteristics/parameters such as height, weight, age,
 5 BMI, inhaled temperature or humidity, tidal volume, nose or mouth breathing, lung disease (e.g.
   COPD), rhinitis/cold, bronchial blood flow, hydration level.
   The model 50 is based on the following. For a balanced system, the flow provided by the CPAP
   breathing apparatus will equal the negative sum of patient flow and average/bias flow. This is
   shown in Figures 6A, 6B. There is an incoming CPAP flow into the mask and an outgoing flow
10 out of the bias hole at the constant rate. Figures 6A, 6B illustrates the air flow in an inhalation
   and exhalation process where the mask is considered as a control volume.
   The patient flow can be approximated by a sine curve for the purposes of the model. The CPAP
   flow waveform is shown in Figure 7. The average flow can be assumed to be constant.
15 According to conservation of mass, assuming density remains the same, the volume flow in the
   system can be represented by the following equation:
                                 VCPAP + Vpatient + Vbias     0          (16)
20 This is equivalent to equation 13 below.
   CPAP flow mostly has a positive sign representing flow into the system whereas the bias flow
   should always have a negative sign representing flow out of the system. The patient's flow has a
   positive sign during exhalation and a negative sign during inhalation. However, with a particularly
25 large volume exhalation, the CPAP flow can reverse its direction and flows back into the
   apparatus, resulting in a negative flow.
   EOH air temperature and humidity level can be considered as a known input parameter in this
   particular analysis. Also the sensor measurements of real time CPAP flow and bias flow rate that
30 are available from the controller can be taken as input parameter (flow characteristics). Another
   input factor is the ambient room condition which would be assumed to be constant for the
   analysis. The exhaled air composition for an average patient is largely dependent on the patient of
   interest and varies considerably from individual to individual. Most studies done to date suggest
   that a temperature of 34-35 degree Celsius and a humidity level of 75-95% in exhaled air are
                                                      17

   universally acceptable values. Rather than assuming an average breathing pattern for patients, we
   will calculate the average flow, and amplitude (or peak flow)based on the detected CPAP and bias
   flow rates and model the breath pattern using a suitable function like sine/cosine. Some of the
   model inputs can be determined from using the CPAP flow waveform. For example, the average
 5 flow can be obtained by calculating a moving average of the dynamic flow over 749 samples or
   more (15 sec with lOms sensor sampling). The peak flow for each breath can be obtained by
   calculating the difference between maximum flow and average flow for each breath. To get an
   average peak flow, a moving average of this peak flow can be calculated over 15 breaths or over a
   set time period. Peak flow could also be calculated from physiological parameters, such as those
10 mentioned earlier.
   The above combined target temperature and humidity model was provided by way of overview.
   The models of this embodiment will now be described in detail as separate models below.
   1.2.2 Target humidity model
15 Referring to Figure 8, once determined,   Mh  becomes a known parameter that is an input to a
   target humidity model that is based on (a "reverse") of the patient contribution model for
   humidity, along with other inputs to produce the end of conduit (hose) (target) humidity
   (EOHAH) 44b.
   The patient contribution model for humidity can be generally defined as the following function:
20                       Mh -fflow characteristic, he, hp)                                      (1)
   Where:
            hc is the humidity provided by the CPAP apparatus to the mask - in this case the
   humidity at the end of the hose (also EOHAH).
            hp is the humidity provided by the patient (exhalation) into the mask
25          flow characteristic represents any one or more breath flow characteristics of the patient
   The patient contribution model is rearranged to the following function that defines the target
   humidity model 50:
                     EOHAH =fXflow characteristic,      Mh, hp,)                           (2)
                                                     1R

   In one embodiment, a functional definition of a patient contribution model that specifies the
   actual flow characteristics is as follows:
                                  Mh  =fA,J, hc, h,)                                            (3)
   Where
 5          A is the peak flow of the patient
           JB is the  average flow (bias plus leak flow)
   Mask type can also additionally be used as an input, but this is not essential and an average for a
   mask can be used instead and included intrinsically in the function.
   One example of this function is, as based on water vapour mass balance is:
10
   AHmaskVmask       +  AHCPAPVCPAP +        tent     patient   AHmixtureVtotai            (4a)
   Since the volume of the mask is constantly flushed with the incoming air, the residual term
15 (AHmaskVmask)   = 0. Therefore, the equation will be as follows:
   AHCPAPVCPAP + AHpatientVpatient            AHmixtureVtotai                              (4b)
20
   Solving for end of hose (absolute) humidity, the functional definition of the patient contribution
   model (3) that specifies the actual flow characteristics can be rearranged to (as shown in Figure
   8):
                                     EOH_AH =f/(A, JB,     Mh, h,)                         (5)
25
   A particular instance of the function in equation (5) can be implemented by the following
   equation:
                                                       1Q

    EOH   _  AH = (MaskAH-(A(JB * pi))*Patient _AH)/(1-A/(JB *pi))                         (6)
   Where
            A is the patient peak flow
 5          JE is the average flow
            PatientT and PatientAH are the temperature and humidity of the air exhaled by the
   patient.
   Therefore, equation (6) is one implementation of a target humidity model to determine the target
10 humidity at the end of hose target point.
   1.2.3 Target temperature model
   Referring to Figure 9, once determined, Mt becomes a known parameter that is an input to a
   target temperature model that is based on (a "reverse") of the patient contribution model for
   temperature, along with other inputs to produce the end of conduit (hose) (target) temperature
15 (EOHT) 44a.
   The patient contribution model for temperature can be generally defined as follow
                          M, =fflow characteristic, Tc,TP)                                     (7)
   Where:
            Tc is the temperature provided by the CPAP apparatus to the mask - in this case the
20 temperature at the end of the hose (EOHT) 44a.
            TP is the temperature provided by the patient (exhalation) into the mask
            Flow characteristic represents any one or more breath flow characteristics of the patient
   The patient contribution model is rearranged to the following function that defines the target
   temperature model 50:
25                   EOHT =fflow characteristic, Mt, TP)                                   (8)
                                                     ?nl

   In one embodiment, a functional definition of a patient contribution model that specifies the
   actual flow characteristics is as follows:
                            Mt =f(AJ,Tc,TP,T,)                                             (9)
 5 Where
            A is the peak flow of the patient
           JB is the average flow (bias plus leak flow)
            T is ambient temperature as measured by e.g. a sensor
   Mask type can also additionally be used as an input, but this is not essential and an average for a
10 mask can be used instead and included intrinsically in the function.
   One example of this function based on energy balance equation is:
   A(mmaskCpTmask) =nCPAPCPTCPAP + Thpatient pTpatient -                 rnbiascpTmask -    lost
            (1Oa)
15 (Change in the energy of air in the mask = Energy of air coming in from CPAP + Energy of air
   coming in from patient - Energy of air going out through the bias holes - Heat lost to ambient)
   In steady state, the change in the energy of air in the mask A(mmaskVCTmask)will be 0. So the
   equation will be as follows:
20 TfbiasCpTmask +      Qst -    rnCPAPCPTCPAP + T Patient pPatient                        (lOb)
   Solving for end of hose temperature, the functional definition of the patient contribution model
   (9) that specifies the actual flow characteristics can be rearranged to:
                                     EOHT =f(A,JB, M,Tp,T)                                 (11)
25 A particular instance of this function can be implemented by the following equation:
                                                       21

    EOl_T =(Mask T*(1+0)-(AI(JB* ptl*PatieitT--O*A b 7/(1-AJB *pj))                                  (12)
   Where
      0= kMC        J
             pC,
 5          k0f is the effective heat conduction coefficient through the mask,
            S is the surface area of the mask
            Cp and p refer to the air specific heat and (average) density at constant (average) process
   pressure
            A is the patient peak flow
10          JE is the average flow
            PatientT and PatientAH are the temperature and humidity of the air exhaled by the
   patient.
   Therefore, equation (12) is one implementation of a target temperature model to determine the
15 target humidity at the end of hose target point.
   Therefore, equations (6), (12) can be used to determine target humidity and temperature
   respectively, which can then be achieved using control methods programmed in to the controller.
   Alternatively, a neural network can also be used to determine target humidity and temperature
   with the inputs described above.
20 1.2.4 Derivation of target humidity and temperature models
   The derivation of the patient contribution, target temperature and target humidity models will
   now be described.
   1.2.4.1 Background definitions
   The following abbreviations are used:
25          Indices : "C"-"CPAP", '"-       'Patient", 'B"- "bias (f/ow)","M"- what is there in the mask
   (mixed), 'A"- 'Ambient".
            JX,  X=CP,B -  olumeticf/ow, X y, X=C,P,M - absolute humidity, mg H20 L' air. Tx,  XC,P,M
               0
   temperatutv, C.

             VLWG is the tidal volume per breath and brperiod is the time period of the breath, RF is
   the respiration frequency.
   Referring to Figures6A, 6B, according to law of conservation of mass, the system shown can be
 5 written as follows, assuming air densities remain the same.
                            Jc(t) + Jp(t ) - JE=0,                                          (13)
   With the exhaust pressure being constant (atmospheric), the JE is now also constant. For the
10 illustration purposes and simplicity, a sinusoidal time-dependence of the flow in/out of the lungs
   for patient flow JP= Asin(ot) is assumed, where A is the amplitude or patient peak flow.
   Referring to Figure 11 a, considering the mask 90 as an open system or a control volume, the
   thermodynamic interactions that are involved are largely the mixing of different fluids. During
   the exhalation phase, the residual air inside the mask 91 (i.e. mixture resultant from last breathe
15 cycle) is mixed with the incoming CPAP air 92 and patient exhaled air 93 whereas during the
   inhalation phase, the residual air inside the mask is mostly flushed out by the large volume of
   incoming CPAP air. This is a mass convection and diffusion process as shown in Figure 11a.
   In most CPAP apparatus operating environments, the room would have a lower temperature
20 than the air inside the mask, resulting in a heat exchange out of the system. The breath cycle can
   be considered as a thermodynamic cyclic process, assuming each exhalation is relatively similar
   and any mask residual air is flushed out by the incoming CPAP air during inhalation, bringing the
   mask condition back to an initial state. Thus, the average air temperature inside the mask
   averaged out for each cycle of inhalation and exhalation processes should maintain approximately
25 constant. For this reason, a steady-state heat transfer process involving convection 95a, 95b and
   conduction 94 is considered as shown in Figure 11 b.
   The above-mentioned thermodynamic process in the sealed mask is likely to be turbulent mixing
   due to the nature of rapid variation of velocity in the small space. Turbulence is an effective aid in
30 the process of molecular mixing as the flow motion induces a large interfacial surface area
   promoting the diffusion process.
   Turbulence mixing is normally categorised into three levels: (1) passive mixing such as mixing of
   match-density fluids, (2) mixing that is coupled to the dynamics such as Rayleigh-Taylor

   instability flows in the case of different-density fluids in an acceleration field, and (3) mixing that
   changes the fluid such as a pressure increase. Inside-mask air mixing falls in the first category as
   the fluids involved (i.e. air) are of similar density. For such mixing process, the analysis of the
   mixing is not required to describe the flow dynamics. Thus, we do not need to consider the
 5 change in flow pattern during each breath cycle due to the mixing process.
   1.2.4.2 Derivation of target humidity model
   Water vapour mass (m) rate balance averaged over 1 breathing cycle then is:
                                                +
                                          20 )         H2O111
                        1. H2O  )   (
                        mn        =   Mt             mc/,      [mg H20 sec']           (14)
                       flow  out             flow in
10 Where:
                                                                                       .H2O
            The Water vapour mass Flow out averaged over 1 breathing cycle          K im,
                                                                                            ) equals the
   amount of water vapour present in air mixed in the mask and goes out through the exhaust/bias
   holes.
                                                                                                 .HO
            The Water vapour mass Flow from patient averaged over 1 breathing cycle                     is a
15 function of CPAP delivered humidity, patient exhaled humidity and patient peak flow.
     K.
     mc
       H2)0
            The water vapour mass flow from the CPAP apparatus averaged over 1 breathing cycle
              is a function of CPAP delivered humidity and flow characteristics, such as average/bias
   flow and/or peak flow.
20 Due to the complexity of the geometry, a simplification can be made. The scalar conservation of
   mass of water vapour at some discrete points during the breathing cycle is applied. This assumes
   that the incoming CPAP air is mixed well with the exhaled air and the residual air inside the mask
   before leaving via the bias hole. The mathematical representation is as the following: (water
   vapour mass flow into the mask equals water vapour mass flow out)
25
   AHmaskVmask +        AHCPAPVCPAP +           tent      patient   AHmixtureVtotal             (4a)

   Since the volume of the mask is constantly flushed with the incoming air, the residual term
   (AHmaskVmak)   = 0. Therefore, the equation will be as follows:
 5 AHCPAPVCPAP + AHpatientVpatient            AHmixture total                            (4b)
   From the above equation, the average humidity of the air in the mask can be written as.
10
                   Mask Humidity =function (A, JB, he, h)                                (3)
   Solving the above equation for target humidity, results in.
15                                       EOH_AH =f(A, JB,    Mh, h>)                     (5)
   and
    EOH _ AH = (Mask _ AH -( AI(JB             pi))*PatientAH)/(1-    A(JB * pi))        (6)
   as previously stated.
20 1.2.4.3Derivation of target temperature model
   Using the same approach for temperature, a heat energy balance equation for the mask system
   can be written as below:
                                                           , [ sec-']                    (15)
                       q,    +     q ,    =  q ,)+       c
                      average "heat" out       "heat" in
   Where
25
           The heat out comprises the heat energy carried by the air flow out through the bias
   holes JB (function of mask temperature and average flow) and also the heat lost to the ambient
   through the mask surface (function of mask temperature, ambient temperature and the heat loss
   coefficient through the mask).
30

            The heat in comprises the heat energy carried by CPAP flow (function of average flow,
   peak flow and CPAP delivered temperature) and the heat energy carried by patient flow into the
   mask (function of patient exhaled temperature, CPAP delivered temperature and patient peak
   flow).
 5
   It will be assumed that the mixing air process is completed before the air leaves the system via
   the bias hole during both inhalation and exhalation. The exhalation phase is the process when the
   mixed air gains more heat and humidity.
10 1.       The mask temperature obtained from the last time step would be used to calculate the
   mask temperature at the current time step, thus giving an iterative model represented by the
   following equation.
   2.       The model output gives the mask air temperature as a function of time during each
   breathe-cycle and the average value is calculated and compared with the experimental
15 measurement. However, the results showed errors mostly in one-direction.
   From the second law of thermodynamic, it is known that heat flows from higher-temperature
   object to lower-temperature object. For most of the CPAP operating environments, the air inside
   the mask is likely to have a higher temperature than the ambient room temperature, and there
20 would be heat lost from inside of the mask to the ambient.
   The energy balance equation including the heat loss is as follows:
   A(mmaskcpmask            rCPAPCPTCPAP     + ThPatientCpTPatient- 7hbiasCpTmask -        Lst
25 (1Oa)
   (Change in the energy of air in the mask - Energy of air coming in from CPAP + Energy of air
   coming in from patient - Energy of air going out through the bias holes - Heat lost to ambient)
   In steady state, the change in the energy of air in the mask A(mmask CpTmask)will be 0. So the
   equation will be as follows:
30
   rnbiascpTmask +      Lost =nCPAPCPTCPAP + inPatient pTPatient                           (lOb)
   Using the concept of thermal resistance:

          1. RQist
                       (Tmask-TinWall)
         2.-. RC=Qdst
                 cond =(TinWall-ToutWall)
          3. RQstott     (ToutWall-Tamb)
    Due to the complex geometry of the mask, it is very difficult to calculate these thermal
  5 resistances theoretically. Therefore, an empirical approach was taken to obtain a statistical
    relationship for the thermal resistance using experimental measurements.
    Solving the above equation for mask temperature, the average temperature of the air in the mask
    can be written as:
10
                       Mask Temperature =function (A, J, Tc, T,, T)                           (9)
    Solving the above equation for target temperature, results in
                        EOHT =f(A,J, M,TP,T,)                                       (11)
15  and:
     EOH_T=(MaskT*(1+O)-(A(JB*pj))*PatientT-6*An&TftG1AIJB*Po)                                (12)
    as previously stated.
20  kff and    Smask were measured experimentally for a nominal mask type for this particular
    implementation. In alternative variations, mask type can be included as an input to the model,
    where the mask type is detected by CPAP or T, and hp are the temperature and absolute humidity
    of the air exhaled by the patient. For one implementation, average values obtained from literature
    (i.e. 34 0 C, 85%, 32mg/L) can be used, for example.
25
    1.2.5 Humidification breathing apparatus control
    The controller is configured to implement the models above using equations (6), (12) to
    determine the target temperature and humidity at the end of the hose. Once those targets have
                                                        27

   been determined, the controller is also configured to operate the humidification breathing
   apparatus to achieve those targets at the target point (end of hose). This was shown in overview
   in Figure 4, and a detailed example of the overall apparatus control (implemented by the
   controller) for this embodiment is shown in Figure 10.
 5 Referring to those Figures, a user or physician inputs the preferred temperature and/or humidity
   settings into the humidification breathing apparatus via the user input control interface 114.
   Ambient temperature 19a is also received as an input into the controller, for example from a
   temperature sensor situated outside the breathing apparatus. The controller 109 contains a look
   up table or similar implementation that uses the ambient temperature 19a and user settings 19b to
10 determine the desired mask humidity 42e and temperature 42d. For example, the mask relative
   humidity (MaskRH) and also mask temperature (MaskT) 42d and mask absolute humidity
   (MaskAH)42e are pre-determined for each comfort setting for ambient temperatures from 50 C
   to 35 0 C and these are programmed into the controller look-up table. These values are defined
   based on feedback from patient trials or other empirical methods. The desired MaskT 42d and
15 MaskAH 42e can be determined using two look-up tables in the unit memory for each user
   setting and different ambient temperatures.
   Next, the controller 109 uses the desired mask humidity 42e and temperature 42 d as inputs into
   the equations (6), (12) that implement the target temperature and humidity models 50. The
20 controller 109 also uses average flow 42a, peak flow 42b and ambient temperature l9aas inputs
   into those equations as received from the appropriate sensors/inputs. The target temperature and
   target humidity models 50 then output the target end of hose humidity (EOHAH) 44b and
   temperatures (EOHT) 44a as described previously.
   The controller 109 then operates the humidification breathing apparatus to achieve and maintain
25 the target humidity and temperature. In this embodiment, the controller does this by controlling
   the heater plate (HP) 108 to control target humidity and the heater (HBT)101a in the breathing
   tube to control target temperature. To control the heater platelO8 to achieve the target humidity,
   the controller 109 uses the target humidity (end of hose temperature 44a) along with ambient
   temperature 19a, ambient humidity 19c (measured by sensor or determined through a model) and
30 average flow 42a as inputs into a neural network model or equations 120 that outputs the target
   heater plate temperature 43a that will achieve the target end of hose humidity 44b. The controller
   109 also optionally uses an end of hose humidity sensor 122 reading as a feedback input into the
   model 120. Similarly, to control the heated breathing tube to achieve the target temperature (end
   of hose temperature 44a), the controller 109 uses the target temperature along with ambient
                                                     ?R

   temperature 19a, and average flow 42a and heater plate temperature 43a as inputs into a neural
   network model or equations 121 that outputs the target power 43b for the heated breathing tube
   101 to achieve the target end of hose temperature 44a. It also optionally or as an alternative uses
   an end of hose temperature sensor 123 reading as a feedback input into the model 121.. Based on
 5 the heater plate target temperature 43a and HBT target power 43b, the controller 109 generates
   and passes control voltages to the heater plate 108 and breathing tube heater 101a respectively to
   control them to attain and maintain the target heater plate temperature 43a and breathing tube
   power 43b to achieve the target temperature/humidity at the end of hose 44a, 44b.
10 The above embodiment could be run as an open loop system, where no sensors are present to
   measure the output humidity and temperature. However, optionally, there can be sensors present
   to measure humidity and/or temperature in the mask or end of hose. If they are present, the
   following occurs:
15 If a sensor 117 is implemented to measure temperature in the mask 102, the HBT power 43b will
   be adjusted according to the feedback control loop to maintain target mask temperature 42d. In
   this case, the target temperature model (T) 50 and neural network model (HBT)121 would be
   bypassed. In this case, just the target humidity model 50 and neural network model 120 for the
   heater plate 108 would be used.
20
   Similarly, if a sensor 117 is implemented to measure humidity (AH or RH) in the mask 102, the
   HP temperature/power 43a would be adjusted according to the feedback control loop to
   maintain target mask humidity 42e. In this case, the target humidity model (AH) 50 and neural
   network model (HP) 120 would be bypassed. In this case, just the target temperature model 50
25 and neural network model 121 for the breathing tube heater would be used.
   If a sensor 123 is implemented to measure temperature at the end of hose, the HBT power 43b
   would be adjusted according to the feedback control loop to maintain target EOH T 44a. In this
   case, the neural network model (HBT) 121 would be bypassed. But, the patient contribution
30 model (T) 50 would still be used to calculate EOH T 44a from Mask Temperature targets 42a.
   If a sensor 122is implemented to measure humidity at the end of hose, the HP
   temperature/power 43a will be adjusted according to the feedback control loop to maintain
   target EOH humidity 44b. In this case, the neural network model (HP) 120 would be bypassed.
                                                     2Q

   But, the patient contribution model (AH) 50 would still be used to calculate EOH AH 44b from
   Mask AH targets 42e.
   The humidity control model 120 as shown in can be a machine learning algorithm such as a
 5 neural network model or set of equations. A neural network model can be implemented in the
   controller to predict HP 43a and HBT settings 43b under different conditions, to achieve EOH
   targets (AH and T) 44b, 44a. The model 120 is trained using known inputs and outputs
   parameters from experimental data to mimic the relationships of the physical system. It is then
   implemented in the controller to predict the required settings output using a different set of
10 inputs. Preferably, the HP model 120 runs first. This model determines the HP temperature
   43a to maintain target EOH AH 44b under different conditions (ambient T, ambient AH and
   flow). The HBT model 121 takes HP setting 43a as input and controls HBT power 43b to
   compensate for the remaining EOH_T 44a requirement under different conditions (ambient T
   and flow).
15
   The model can optionally comprise additional functionality to take into account another effect.
   As the water level in the chamber decreases over night due to water chamber geometry, the
   moisture pick-up capability and therefore the level of humidity being delivered decreases as well.
   By compensating for the water level decline, a constant level of humidity can be maintained
20 throughout the night.
   It would be done using the following steps:
   Step 1- Calculate the water level estimate
   A water level estimate will be calculated using the inputs: ambient absolute humidity (AmbAH),
25 target end of hose output humidity (EOHAH), average flow (L/min) and CPAP run time for
   the night, as follows.
       *   The Initial WL (water level at the start of the therapy) can be assumed to be full chamber
            capacity.
       *    Unit AH = EOH_AH        - AmbAH                                 [AH added by CPAP in
30          mg/L]
       *    Evap. Rate = Unit AH * Average flow                             [evaporation rate in
            mg/min]
       *   Water evaporated (mg)      Evap. Rate * Run time (hours) * 60

        *    Water level (mg or ml) - Initial WL - Water evaporated
   Step 2 - Calculating HP setting
   A mathematical model was described above with reference to Figure 10 that relates the output
   humidity (or moisture pick up) as a function of heater-plate temperature, ambient temperature,
 5 input humidity and flow rate. The water level will be added as an input to the model as well. By
   re-arranging this equation, we can get the heater-plate temperature setting. Alternatively, the
   water level can be added as an input to the neural network model.
   1.2.6 Humidity and temperature control models
10
   An example of the mathematical HP 120 and HBT 121 models will now be described in more
   detail. The model is divided into 2 subsystems: humidity model (mainly humidifier chamber) 120
   and temperature model 121 (mainly heated breathing tube). The models described below relate to
   a particular humidification breathing apparatus configuration. If the configuration changes, the
15 equations will change. Referring back to Figure 2, the breathing apparatus configuration has a
   chamber to hold about 400ml of water, which is on top of a heater-plate, to evaporate the water
   in the chamber. There are sensors to measure the temperature of the heater-plate     (THPL) 119,
   which is fed into a PID feedback loop to maintain constant temperature by varying the supplied
   power. The incoming air flows over the water surface and picks up humidity. This humidity is
20 carried through the hose 101, which is heated across its surface using the HBT (heater in the
   breathing tube) 101a in order to prevent rainout due to drop in temperature. The power in the
   tube   (PHE) is controlled to get the desired temperature 44a at the end of the hose as previously
   described.
25 1.3 Alternative embodiments
   The above is one embodiment. Many others will be envisaged by those skilled in the art.
   Different implementations of (that is, different equations defining) the target temperature and
   humidity models 50 could be envisaged, along with different heater plate120 and heated
30 breathing tube 121 control models and implementations. Furthermore, the embodiment above
   uses the end of hose as the target point and the model used relates to the patient contribution
   that influences the humidity and temperature of the mask contributions. Other target points in
   the flow path of the breathing apparatus could be used, with the appropriate models used to
   compensate for contributions to humidity and temperature made by the downstream portions of
                                                      ' 11

   the breathing apparatus. For example, the humidifier outlet could be used as the target point and
   the model would take into account patient and breathing tube contributions.
   In one alternative embodiment, there is no heated breathing tube (that is a breathing tube
 5 without heating) and the only control parameter is the heater plate temperaturel19. This means
   that AH 42e and temperature42d in the mask cannot be independently controlled as both will be
   determined by the heater plate setting.
   An equation can be used to determine the HP setting for the particular ambient temperature,
   ambient humidity, average flow and desired maskRH or EOHRH.
10
   Embodiments described herein refer to the mask humidity and the mask temperature as the
   desired temperature/humidity proximate the patient, although this should not be considered
   limiting. Models could be created for achieving desired temperatures/humidities at other points
   in the flow path.
15 In further embodiments, it is possible to estimate parameters (patient exhaled humidity and
   temperature and tidal volume) based on more information about patient (height, weight, lung
   volume, age, gender, BMI etc) or surroundings (ambient temperature, inhaled temperature etc),
   or if the patient is nose breathing or mouth breathing.
20 Another way to represent the average humidity and temperature in the mask when patient breath
   may not be assumed as sinusoidal is:
            Mask Humidity = function     (VLUNG,  RF, JE, hc, h,)
            Mask Temperature = function      (VLUNG, RF, JE, Tc, TP, T,)
25
   Where RF =respiratory frequency.
   An empirical relation for tidal volume via Body Surface Area (BSA), body Weight (          and body
   Height (H) can be devised so these can be replaced instead of      VLUNG in the above function.
30
   Also, the RF in the above function can be replaced by br-period.
   LIST OF PARAMETERS

   Throughout this specification, various parameters are used. In some cases, the same parameter is
   represented by different symbols or acronyms in different equations. For clarity, a set of
   parameters and their symbols used in equations is set out below.
 5 The desired absolute humidity at the mask is referred to as MaskAH,       Mh,   hM, Mask
   Humidity,    AHmixme, AHmask.
   The desired relative humidity at the mask is referred to as MaskRH.
   The desired temperature at the mask is referred to as Mask_T, Me, TM, Mask Temperature,
   Tmask
10 The absolute humidity of the air at the patient end of breathing tube is referred to as EOHAH,
   hC,AHCPAP.
   The relative humidity of the air at the patient end of the breathing tube is referred to as
   EOHRH.
   The temperature of the air at the patient end of the breathing tube is referred to as EOHT, TC,
15 TCPAP.
   The patient exhaled absolute humidity is referred to as PatientAH, hp, Patient humidity,
   AHatient.
   The patient exhaled temperature is referred to as PatientT, Tp, Patient temperature,        Tpatient.
   The generally constant flow rate leaving the bias holes of the mask (plus any leak through the
20 mask) is referred to as Average Flow, Avg Flow, JB, av. Flow.
   The amplitude of the assumed sinusoidal patient flow rate is referred to as the Peak Flow, A.
   The ambient temperature is referred to as Amb_T, TA, Amb. Temperature, Ambient
   temperature,    Tamb.
   The ambient humidity is referred to as AmbAH, Ambient humidity.
25 The specific heat and (average) density of the air at constant (average) process pressure are
   referred to as Cp and p respectively.
   The effective heat conduction coefficient through the mask is referred to as keff.
   The surface area of the mask is referred to as S.
   The heater plate is referred to as HP.
30 The heater in the breathing tube is referred to as HBT.
   The temperature of the heater-plate is referred to as  THPL
   The power in the heated tube is referred to as   PHBT
   The neural network is referred to as NN.
   The tidal volume per breath is referred to as  VLUNG
35 The time period of the breath is referred to as br-period.

   The respiration frequency is referred to as RF.
   Volumetric flow rate of the CPAP is referred to   asVCPAPJC.
   Volumetric flow rate of the patient breath is referred to asVPatient,JP.
   Volumetric flow rate going out through the bias holes is referred to     asVbias,JB, VttA.
 5 Volume of the mask is referred to as  Vmask.
   Absolute humidity of the air in the mask is referred to as AHmask.
   The heat loss to ambient through the mask is referred to as   Qios.
   The forced convection resistance inside the mask is referred to as Rin.
   The conduction resistance through the mask is referred to as Rcn   0 d.
10 The natural convection resistance from mask to ambient is referred to as R.
   The temperature of the inner surface of the mask is referred to as Tinwan.
   The temperature of the outer surface of the mask is referred to as Toutwan.

CLAIMS
1.      A humidification breathing apparatus for generating and delivering humidified air to a
patient at a desired humidity proximate the patient, the apparatus comprising:
        an air flow path, and
        a controller for controlling operation of the humidification breathing apparatus ,
        wherein the controller is configured to operate the humidification breathing apparatus to
control humidity at a point in the flow path to achieve the desired delivered humidity proximate
the patient based on the patient exhaled humidity and flow.
2.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising a conduit
coupled to a patient interface that form part of the flow path.
3.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the point in the flow
path where the controller is configured to control humidity is at or near the patient interface end
of the conduit.
4.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to claim 2 or 3 wherein the patient
interface is a mask and the controller controls the humidity at the point in the flow path to
achieve a target humidity calculated from patient exhaled humidity and flow, the relationship
between target humidity, patient exhaled humidity and flow being based on the balance of water
vapour mass flow into and out of the mask.
5.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the water vapour
mass flow balance is
                                  ,H 20         ,IH,0
                    1. HIO
                   Km       =Km2        )+Kc          ,[mg H20  sec']           (14)
                   flow out             flow in
Where:

                                                                                H20
                                                                             (.
        The water vapour mass flow out averaged over 1 breathing cycle         M    equals the
amount of water vapour present in air mixed in the mask and goes out through the exhaust/bias
holes.
                                                                                        ,H20
        The water vapour mass flow from patient averaged over 1 breathing cycle               is a
function of CPAP delivered humidity, patient exhaled humidity and patient peak flow.
        The water vapour mass flow from the CPAP apparatus averaged over 1 breathing cycle
   M1C
    H     is a function of CPAP delivered humidity and flow (e.g. average/bias flow and peak
flow).
6.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to claim 4 or 5 wherein the relationship is
defined by
                                  EOHAH =f(A, J,      Mh, hp)                          (5)
Where
         hP is the humidity provided by the patient (exhalation) into the mask
        A is the peak flow of the patient
        JBis   the average flow (bias plus leak flow)
         Mh is the desired mask humidity
         EOHAH is the end of hose (absolute) humidity
7.       A humidification breathing apparatus according to claim 4, 5 or 6 wherein the
relationship is defined by
 EOH   _  AH = (Mask _ AH - (A/(JB * pi))* Patient AH)/(1- AI(JB * p))                 (6)

         A is the patient peak flow
        JB is  the average flow
         PatientT and PatientAH are the temperature and humidity of the air exhaled by the
patient.
8.       A humidification breathing apparatus with a humidifier according to claim 2 wherein the
point in the flow path where the controller is configured to control humidity is at or near the
humidifier outlet.
9.       A humidification breathing apparatus according to any preceding claim comprising a flow
sensor to sense the flow.
10.      A humidification apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein the flow comprises
one or more characteristics of flow, being one or more of:
         average flow rate,
         peak flow rate,
         tidal volume.
11.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein patient
exhaled humidity one or more of:
         a predetermined value,
         a sensed value using a sensor,
         a calculated value from one or more of: BMI, height, weight, body volume or any other
suitable physiological patient characteristic.
12.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein the
controller is configured to operate the humidifier to control humidity by controlling a heater
plate temperature, for example by controlling the duty cycle of the power supplied to the heater
plate.
13.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein the
controller is further configured to operate the humidification breathing apparatus to control
humidity based on mask information, for example, mask internal volume.
                                                  r

14.      A method of generating and delivering humidified air to a patient at a desired humidity
proximate the patient comprising operating a humidification breathing apparatus to control
humidity at a point in a flow path to achieve the desired delivered humidity proximate the patient
based on the patient exhaled humidity and flow.
15.      A method according to claim 14 wherein controlling humidity at the point in the flow
path is to achieve a target humidity calculated from patient exhaled humidity and flow, the
relationship between target humidity, patient exhaled humidity and flow being based on the
balance of water vapour mass flow into and out of the mask.
16.      A humidification breathing apparatus for generating and delivering humidified air to a
patient at a desired humidity and temperature proximate the patient, the apparatus comprising:
         an air flow path, and
         a controller for controlling operation of the humidification breathing apparatus,
        wherein the controller is configured to operate the humidification breathing apparatus to
control humidity at a point in the flow path to achieve the desired delivered humidity proximate
the patient based on the patient exhaled humidity and flow, and
        wherein the controller is configured to operate the humidification breathing apparatus to
control temperature at a point in the flow path to achieve the desired delivered temperature
proximate the patient based on the patient exhaled temperature and flow.
17.      A method of generating and delivering humidified air to a patient at a desired humidity
and temperature proximate the patient comprising:
          operating a humidification breathing apparatus to control humidity at a point in a flow
path to achieve the desired delivered humidity proximate the patient based on the patient exhaled
humidity and flow, and
         operating a humidification breathing apparatus to control temperature at a point in the
flow path to achieve the desired delivered temperature proximate the patient based on the patient
exhaled temperature and flow.
18.      A humidification breathing apparatus for generating and delivering humidified air to a
patient at a desired temperature proximate the patient comprising:
         an air flow path, and
         a controller for controlling operation of the humidification breathing apparatus,

        wherein the controller is configured to operate the humidification breathing apparatus to
control temperature at a point in the flow path to achieve the desired delivered temperature
proximate the patient based on the patient exhaled temperature and flow.
19.     A humidification breathing apparatus according to claim 18 further comprising a conduit
coupled to a patient interface that form part of the flow path.
20.     A humidification breathing apparatus according to claim 19 wherein the point in the flow
path where the controller is configured to control temperature is at or near the patient interface
end of the conduit.
21.     A humidification breathing apparatus according to claim 19 or 20 wherein the patient
interface is a mask and the humidifier controls the temperature at the point in the flow path to
achieve a target temperature calculated from patient exhaled temperature and flow, the
relationship between target temperature, patient exhaled temperature and flow being based on
the balance of heat flow into and out of the mask.
22.     A humidification breathing apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the heat flow balance
is
                  q,    )+     q      = q,    +q      [ sec-]                  (15)
                   average "heat" out      "heat" in
Where
        The heat out comprises the heat energy carried by the air flow out through the bias
holes JE (function of mask temperature and average flow) and also the heat lost to the ambient
through the mask surface (function of mask temperature, ambient temperature and the heat loss
coefficient through the mask).
        The heat in comprises the heat energy carried by CPAP flow (e.g. function of average
flow, peak flow and CPAP delivered temperature) and the heat energy carried by patient flow
into the mask (e.g. function of patient exhaled temperature, CPAP delivered temperature and
patient peak flow).

23.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to claim 21 or 22 wherein the
relationship is defined by:
                                    EOHT =f(A,J, Mt,Tp,Tn)                               (11)
Where
         TP is the temperature provided by the patient (exhalation) into the mask
         A is the peak flow of the patient
         JE is the average flow (bias plus leak flow)
         T is ambient temperature as measured by e.g. a sensor
         Mtis the desired mask temperature
         EOHT is the end of hose temperature
24.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to claim 21, 22 or 23 wherein the
relationship is defined by
 EOH_T=(Mask_7'*(1+O)-(AI(JB*p4)*PatientT-O              t Ambfl/fj-AGJB*pj)             (12)
Where
                     kS
            O = k&         JBI
                  PMC
                    PC,      B
         kaff is the effective heat conduction coefficient through the mask,
         S is the surface area of the mask
         Cp and p refer to the air specific heat and (average) density at constant (average) process
pressure
         A is the patient peak flow
         JB is  the average flow
         PatientT and PatientAH are the temperature and humidity of the air exhaled by the
patient.
                                                    Ain

25.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to claim 19 wherein the point in the flow
path where the controller is configured to control temperature is at or near the humidifier outlet.
26.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to any one of claims 18 to 25 comprising
a flow sensor to sense the flow.
27.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to any one of claims 18 to 26 wherein the
flow comprises one or more characteristics of flow, being one or more of:
         average flow rate,
         peak flow rate,
         tidal volume.
28.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to any one of claims 18 to 27 wherein
patient exhaled temperature is one or more of:
         a predetermined value,
         a sensed value using a sensor,
         a calculated value from one or more of: BMI, height, weight, body volume or any other
suitable physiological patient characteristic.
29.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to any one of claims 18 to 28 wherein the
controller is configured to operate the humidifier to control temperature by controlling
energising a heater in the conduit or alternatively by energising a heater plate apparatus, to heat
the delivered humidified air.
30.      A humidification breathing apparatus to any one of claims 18 to 29 wherein the controller
is further configured to operate the humidifier to control temperature based input air
temperature, and optionally wherein the input air temperature is ambient air temperature or a
predetermined value.
31.      A humidification breathing apparatus according to any one of claims 18 to 30 wherein the
controller is further configured to operate the humidification breathing apparatus to control
humidity based on mask information, optionally wherein the mask information is one or more of:
         mask internal volume,
         mask surface area,
         mask material.
                                                   41

32.     A method of generating and delivering humidified air to a patient at a desired temperature
proximate the patient comprising operating a humidification breathing apparatus to control
temperature at a point in the flow path to achieve the desired delivered temperature proximate
the patient based on the patient exhaled temperature and flow.
33.     A method according to claim 33 wherein controlling the temperature at the point in the
flow path is to achieve a target temperature calculated from patient exhaled temperature and
flow, the relationship between target temperature, patient exhaled temperature and flow being
based on the balance of heat flow into and out of the mask.
                                                 A?

                                                                         <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
                     10                     11
Humidification                                                                                 12
Breathing                                                           15
                    10b          13       Flow path
Apparatus
Flow generation                                         Downstream contributions   Patient
                                            x
                     Air
humidification
                      10a
 controller
                    10c               Target point 14
                                       FIGURE 1A
                                                                                                             1/9
                           1
  Humidification                                                  30
  Breathing                                                                                          12
  Apparatus                103              Flow path
  Flow generation                                                                    Patient
                                                                           x
  humidification
   controller             115
                                                                   Target point
                     109
                                        FIGURE 3                   End of Hose 31

                                                                                            <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                                                               18
                                                                                 16
                                                                                                      20         20a
                   19a
                         Ambient temperature
                   19b                                                                              Heater plate
                            User settings                Parameter models                        temperature setting
                   19c
                                                Humidifier breathing apparatus control             Control output
                          Ambient humidity     to achieve target temperature and humidity
                                                                                                   Heated breathing
                                                                                                                       2/9
                         Patient temperature            Control functionality
                                                                                                  tube power setting
                   19d
                           Patient humidity
                                                                                                              20b
                   19e
                             Patient flow                                             17
                   19f
patient feedback
                                                         FIGURE 1B

                                                                     <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                                                                     1
                                118                                            102
        104                                    100
                   103          111
                                                                      101a
                                                                                 117
110     inlet
                    fan
                                                   115         101
 105                                                                     112
                     motor
                                                   107
 201                                                                                            3/9
                          PS                             108
  106
                                                   119
              UI               Controller
                               interface
        113                                  109
                                       114
                                   FIGURE 2

                                                                                            <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
                            19c                                      41
                                                                                                                   43a
                                   Ambient humidity                                                           Heater plate
                                                               19d                                            temperature
                                                                           40
                                                                                           Apparatus            setting
                      19f         Patient temperature
                                                                                            control
       19a                                                                                  models                43b
                                   Average flow
                                                         42a                                                    Heated
                                   Patient peak          42b                                                 breathing tube
                                      flow OR                                                                power setting
Ambient Temperature                Tidal Volume         19a                   Target      End of hose
                                                                          temperature &   temperature
                                     Ambient
                                   Temperature                               Humidity                       44a
     19b
                                                         42c              models based
                                                                            on Patient                                        4/9
                                     Mask type
                                                                           Contribution      End of hose
   User settings                                         42d                  Model         humidity (AH)
                                   Desired Mask                                                             44b
                                   temperature
                                                         42e
                                   Desired Mask
                                   humidity (AH)        19e
                                  Patient humidity
                                                               Humidifier control
                                                              FIGURE 4

                                                                   <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
         19a
 Amb_T                             50                                               43a
              42b
                                                                           EOH_T      43b
Average &                        Reverse Patient
Peak Flow                       Contribution Model
                                                                           EOH_AH
Mask_T & AH
         42d          42d
                                    FIGURE 5
                                                                                                   5/9
                                     MASK
                    from CPAP                        from /out of / the patient
                                     P=const
                                                               breathing out
  Bias flow
                                                0
                                 Bias flow
                    time                                 breathing in
                                FIGURE 6A

                                                                                           <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                                            90                                                  90
           Mask Bias Flow                                        Mask Bias Flow
                                Mask                                               Mask
                                        Inhaled air                                         Exhaled air
                        CPAP Air                                            CPAP Air
                                                   FIGURE 6B
                                                                                                             90                       6/9
                90                                                90                            94
                                   91                                                                Conduction
                     Mask Air                         Mask Air
Air Mixture                        Air Mixture
via bias hole                      via bias hole                                                                   Mask Air Mixture
                                                                   Air Mixture
                    Exhaled air                                    to patient
                 CPAP Air                             CPAP Air                                                    Forced Convection
                                                                                       Natural Convection
          92                           93                                                 95a
                                                                                                           95b
                          FIGURE 11A                                                                  FIGURE 11B

                                          <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
70.00
                           Flow
60.00
50.00
40.00
30.00                                                  Flow
                                                       CPAP
20.00                                                              7/9
10.00
 0.00
        0.00   5.00     10.00     15.00        20.00
                      FIGURE 7

                                            <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
 42e
                                                       44b
        Mask humidity
 42b
        Peak flow                            EOH_AH
                              Target
42a
        Av. flow
                             Humidity
                              Model
        Patient humidity
 19e                                         50
                             FIGURE 8                                 8/9
19a
       Amb . temperature
42d                                                   44a
       Mask temperature
42b                             Target
       Peak flow                              EOH_T
                              Temperature
                                Model
       Av. flow
42a
       Patient temperature
19d                                          50
                             FIGURE 9

                                                                                     <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                                                                 117
                                           50                                    122
                                                          Mask AH
                    42a                                  sensor FB
                                                                          EOH AH
                   42b                                                   sensor FB
                              Avg flow    Patient
19a               42e         Peak flow   contribution                               120
                                          model (AH)              44b
                                                                                                   43a
      Amb_T     Look-      Mask_AH                       EOH_AH                NN
                 up
      User                                                                    model        HP
                table      Mask_T                             Amb_T
      setting                                          19a                    (HP)                       121
                                          Patient             Amb_AH
                   42d        Amb_T
                                          contribution        Avg flow
                              Avg flow                 42a
19b                  19a                  model (T)
                              Peak flow                                                          NN
                     42a                                 EOH_T                                                         9/9
                                                                                                model      HBT
                     42b                                                                        (HBT)
                                                              Amb_T
                                           50      44a        Avg flow                                           43b
                                                  19a                                123
                                                  42a
                                                                          EOH T
                                                                         sensor FB
                                                               Mask T
                                                              sensor FB
                                                                           117
                                                FIGURE 10

