   ABSTRACT
   A sleep posture alerting apparatus, comprising:
   - an electronic control unit,
   - a body posture detecting sensor operatively connected to the control unit for detecting the
   posture of the body of the user, and
 5 - an alarming device operatively connected to the control unit,
   wherein, the sleep posture alerting apparatus has a normal operational mode, in which
   when the posture of the body detected by the body posture detecting sensor exits a
   predefined posture range - the control unit sends an alarm signal to the alarming device, and
   the alarming device generates an alarm based on the signal received from the control unit, to
10 alert said person, characterised in that
   the sleep posture alerting apparatus furthermore comprises a temperature sensor operatively
   connected to the control unit for detecting a body temperature of the user, wherein the
   control unit is programmed to send an alarm signal to the alarming device only if the detected
   temperature is within a predetermined temperature range.
15

                                                    1
   Title:   Sleep posture alerting apparatus and method
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 5
   The present invention relates to a sleep posture alerting apparatus, comprising
   - an electronic control unit,
   - a body posture detecting sensor operatively connected to the control unit for detecting the
   posture of the body, and
10 - an alarming device operatively connected to the control unit,
   wherein, the sleep posture alerting device has a normal operational mode, in which - when
   the posture of the body detected by the sensor exits a predefined posture range - the control
   unit sends an alarm signal to the alarming device, and the alarming device generates an
   alarm based on the signal received from the control unit, to alert said person.
15
   Such an apparatus is disclosed in WO 2011/139141.
   It is an object of the invention to provide an improved sleep posture alerting apparatus.
20 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   This object is achieved by a sleep posture apparatus of the above described type.
   Sometimes users might be disturbed by the sleep position trainer during the night, which
25 causes them to take off the device. In their sleepiness, they can forget to turn off the device.
   Consequence is that, in a wrong position, the device could be vibrating all night until the
   battery empties. Furthermore, the data representation of one's night of sleep will be distorted.
   An aspect of the invention is that the apparatus uses it's temperature sensor to activate the
30 sensor only when used. Based on a temperature range at around body temperature, the
   sensor is active (possibly after switching the device on with the regular on/off switch). So for
   example at temperatures below the body temperature range the sensor is or becomes not
   active (e.g. when the sensor is not worn), or at temperatures above the body temperature
   range (e.g. when someone lays the sensor on a radiator for example). The unexpected effect
35 of using the body temperature range to activate the device is that the device takes time to
   cool down when not in use (and within the housing of the device, the temperature sensor),
   and the other way around, it also needs time to warm up. So although the sensor may be

                                                      2
   switched on by a user, the sensor may not be at the right temperature yet to be active. This
   allows users to get accustomed of wearing the device and gently fall asleep before it is
   activated.
 5 In general humans tend to sleep lighter towards the end of their sleep. More specifically,
   humans generally sleep lighter during approximately the second half of their night. Another
   aspect of the invention lies in that the apparatus is arranged and configured to automatically
   change the intensity or type of the stimulus during the second half of their night. To this end
   the level of the feedback to the patient (e.g. audible, tactile, vibro-tactile, movement, light,
10 smell) is preferably decreased. It is also possible to increase the feedback, but as the patient
   is usually sleeping lighter during the second part of their night, a decreased level of feedback
   is usually sufficient to alarm the patient. This change can be set to occur after a certain
   period of time, or determined by the patient himself, or automatically set by changing
   externally measured circumstances (e.g. posture, movement, arousal, sleep, depth of sleep).
15 This change could also occur gradually over the time of one night.
   According to an aspect of the invention the alarming device is configured to generate
   different alarm stimuli, and in that the control unit is programmed to send an alarm signal to
   the alarming device such that a stimulus variation is effected by the alarming device.
20
   It is noted here that the term "alerting device" in this application, and in particular in the
   appending claims, can mean an alerting device that can generate one type of alert stimulus
   (e.g. vibrotactile, tactile, electromagnetic, auditive), but can also mean an assembly of
   alerting devices, each of which is able to generate a certain type of alerting stimulus (e.g.
25 vibrotactile, tactile, electromagnetic, auditive).
   An aspect of the present invention relates to a sleep posture alerting method, wherein the
   sleep posture of a person is detected and wherein the person is automatically alerted by a
   stimulus generated by an alerting device when the sleep posture is out of a predetermined
30 body posture range, wherein a stimulus variation is effected by the alerting device.
   When providing the same stimulus, habituation occurs. Therefore the present invention
   proposes to use a stimulus variation in order to prevent this habituation effect.
   The stimulus variation may comprise a variation in type of stimulus (vibrotactile, tactile,
35 electromagnetic, auditive, (bone) conduction or a combination of stimulus types previously
   mentioned).

                                                     3
   Alternatively or in addition the stimulus variation can comprise a variation in strength or
   amplitude of the stimulus.
   Furthermore, alternatively or in addition, the stimulus variation can comprise a variation in the
 5 length of a stimulus and/or in the frequency of the stimulus.
   Also, alternatively or in addition, the stimulus variation can comprise a variation in the
   interstimulus interval.
10 Moreover, it is possible to give the stimulus on different locations on the body of a patient,
   such that the stimulus variation can comprises a variation in the location where the stimulus
   is given.
   The variation type as described above can be randomised. Also the type of variation within a
15 specific form of the stimulus can be randomised.
   Discontinued habituation seems to occur when a stimulation is recognised but then changes.
   To stimulate recognition therefore, one type of stimulus is repeated.
20 According to one aspect of the invention a certain alarm stimulus is repeated and then the
   stimulus is changed based on a certain external input variable measured by a detecting
   device, wherein the detecting device comprises a body posture detecting sensor combined
   with a timer to determine the reaction time (of body posture change) to the generated
   stimulus, and wherein the variable is the event of a (predetermined) time increase in reaction
25 time compared to the previous reaction time (or an average of previous reaction times).
   As such, the stimulus remains the same over a set period of time, a set number of previous
   stimulus rounds or types or when no (predetermined) significant changes in the subject is
   seen in for example their conscious or unconscious (body) response at any autonomic or
30 non-autonomic level. So for example, the variation type as described above can remain the
   same based on similar responses, response times, learning effects, therapy progress,
   therapy results, therapy period or sleep architecture. An additional example may be to
   remain with the same stimulation in the event of a similar reaction time, the latter meaning
   that the previous reaction time (t1) is, within a certain margin, equal to the last reaction time
35 (t2).

                                                     4
   As long as the given stimulus remains within the margin of a 'good reaction' (t1 = t2) as
   described above, the device will continue to provide the preceding stimulus, not further
   changing any characteristics. So for example a user has a good reaction to stimulus A, then
   the next stimulus that is given when needed, will be the same stimulus A.
 5
   Next, to avoid the habituation, at a certain point the stimulus is (automatically) changed. This
   can be either after a set period of time, a set number of previous stimulus rounds or types or
   when a change in the subject is seen in for example their conscious or unconscious (body)
   response at any autonomic or non-autonomic level. So for example, the variation type as
10 described above can be adapted to the response, response time, learning effect, therapy
   progress, therapy results, therapy period or sleep architecture. An additional example may
   be, at the moment of an increased reaction time (so the previous reaction time (t1) is shorter
   then the last reaction time (t2)), to change the stimulation. Then, the stimulation is changed
   to a different variation. This change may be, as previously described, in stimulus types,
15 levels, frequencies, strengths, lengths, locations, amplitudes and/or interstimulus intervals.
   Additionally, all can vary going up or down. In doing that, habituation is discontinued and the
   learning effect maintained or increased.
   An important aspect of the invention is that, different users show and/or experience different
20 optimal nightly stimulus types, levels, locations, frequencies, strengths, lengths, amplitudes
   and/or interstimulus intervals. To accustom individual stimulus optimisation, stimulus types,
   levels, frequencies, strengths, lengths, locations, amplitudes and/or interstimulus intervals
   can be adapted towards the optimal subject reaction.
25 When non-optimal reaction by the subject is measured (for example, a subject does not
   respond to the stimulus), the stimulus (automatically) changes to a more severe or different
   stimulus. This ensures the effectiveness of the stimulus regardless the user.
   On the other hand, when optimal results are measured (for example, subject reacts very fast
   to the stimulus), the stimulus (automatically) stays the same, or changes to less severe
30 stimulus. This has two main benefits; it is ensured that subjects have minimal stimulus
   interventions during their sleep, still evoking their reaction. And secondly, this can guide the
   learning process to a point where no externals stimulus is needed to avoid certain (nightly)
   behaviour (for example sleeping on the back).
35 The above processes can be endlessly repeated. The above processes can range between a
   lower limit and upper limit in stimulus types, levels, locations, frequencies, strengths, lengths,
   amplitudes and/or interstimulus intervals. The lower limit can be no stimulus at all.

                                                     5
   The above processes can also be used to change between types of stimuli (vibrotactile,
   tactile, electromagnetic, auditive or a combination of stimulus types previously mentioned ) to
   adjust the stimuli to the reaction of the user.
 5
   Another aspect is that, the whole of the sleep position trainer can be paused, to start working
   again after a set period of time, or based on behavioural changes of the subject, or based on
   whether or not a subject is already sleeping etc. This pause can be optional to be indicated or
   activated by the user. The pause periods may vary in time. The pause periods could also be
10 pre set at certain moments, automatically by the device or pre-set by the user. So for
   example, there are always two pause moments during the night, one during the first part of
   sleep, one towards the end of the sleep. Or whatever a user prefers. The pause options
   could also increase or decrease over time, to provide a period to get used to the device, or to
   provide a learning effect (so if someone wants to test if they have learned not to sleep on
15 their back they could record this during the increasing pause moments). Also this pause can
   be based on (behavioural) indications such as the occurrence or non-occurrence of sleep
   related outcomes (such as apnoeas, or snoring for example).
   Another aspect of the invention provides for a pre-warning signal as an introduction that an
   alarm is upcoming. The pre-warning signal has such a level that it is only slightly noted by the
20 patient and that it does not disturb the sleep. The pre-warning signal is not necessarily meant
   to evoke a reaction by the user (for example, a position change or awakening), but merely to
   prepare a user of the upcoming feedback, consciously or unconsciously. That way, users are
   less surprised when the regular alarm feedback cycle starts at a certain level of intensity. The
   case might be however, that a user reacts to the pre-warning. After a certain time delay, in
25 the event that an undesired position is still detected the regular alarm feedback cycle starts.
   This delay time may vary over periods of the night, over periods of use (e.g. the beginning of
   use versus over a certain period of time of use), or they could be preset by a user. The delay
   time may also gradually change over any of the preceding periods. An advantage is that the
   pre-warning prevents that the patient is woken by the regular alarm, because the user is
30 prepared by the pre-warning. The pre-warning could be dependent or independent of the set
   alarm types, levels, frequencies, strengths, lengths, locations, amplitudes and/or
   interstimulus intervals.
   In a further aspect of the invention it is envisaged that if a patient for example has stopped
35 sleeping with the sensor, or has not used the sensor for a certain period of time, the sleep
   posture alerting apparatus resets itself to another mode, such that when it is reused again it
   starts again with a training program. When the apparatus is reset, the selection of the mode

                                                    6
   (what program) the apparatus is reset to can be set by the user, or based on external factors.
   The reset can be set to occur after a certain period of time, or determined by the patient
   himself, or automatically set by changing externally measured circumstances (e.g. posture,
   movement, arousal, sleep, depth of sleep). For example in the event a certain level of usage
 5 - e.g. a lower threshold value - is reached which is monitored, the apparatus can reset itself
   to another mode.
   Often is seen that users enjoy waking up in a relaxed way, being able to sleep in all positions.
   Another aspect of the invention lies in that the intensity or type of the stimulus is changed
10 towards the end of the night or the end of the sleeping period, wherein preferably, there is an
   end period before waking up in which the user does not receive any feedback . According to
   this aspect the apparatus is arranged and configured to automatically change the intensity or
   type of the stimulus towards the end of the night. Preferably, there is a 'wake up period',
   where the user does not receive any feedback from the device. During this period the device
15 does not actively provide alarm stimuli. This change can be set to occur after a certain period
   of time, or determined by the patient himself, or automatically set by changing externally
   measured circumstances (e.g. posture, movement, arousal, sleep, depth of sleep).
   With the use of the device, users like to see their progress. Yet another aspect of the
20 invention are diagnosis periods, in which the device is only recording and not providing
   feedback. These diagnosis periods could be set for a part or parts of the night, sleep, training
   period, or period of use. These diagnosis periods could be automatically generated, based on
   behaviour, moment in sleep, or they could be set by the user themselves. The diagnosis
   moments could also increase or decrease over time, to accustom a period of gradually
25 learning not to sleep on the back, or to accustom a positive learning effect (so if someone
   wants to test if they have learned not to sleep on their back they could record this during the
   increasing diagnosis moments).
   The invention will be elucidated in the following description with reference to the drawings.
30

                                                    7
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Fig. 1 shows diagrammatic representation of a preferred embodiment of the apparatus
   according to the invention;
 5
   Fig. 2 shows schematically a lying person wearing an apparatus according to the invention on
   his body by means of a strap; and
   Fig. 3 illustrates how the apparatus is arranged on the strap of Fig. 2.
10
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   In Fig. 2 is shown a person 31 lying on a bed 32. The person 31 is wearing a strap 33 around
   his waist. The strap may also be worn around the chest or other position on the torso,
15 around the neck or the head. In the middle of the strap 33 a pocket 34 is arranged in which a
   sleep posture alerting apparatus 35 is received as can be seen in Fig. 3.
   Instead of a strap the apparatus 35 may also be worn in a dedicated pocket in a tight shirt. It
   is also possible to use a clip to attach the apparatus to one's hair, body, ear, a strap, belt or
20 underwear, possibly underwear in which the device can be put. It is also possible to use a
   head cap, beanie or headband to wear or attach the apparatus to one's head. Other means
   like buttons, stickers, Velcro or other attaching methods could be used to place the device on
   nightwear, headbands, hair or directly on the skin. Also rings that use fabric (of for example a
   t-shirt) to hold the invention in place could be possible. Also nose plugs, earplugs or ear
25 covers to hold the invention in place could be options. Also other means for attaching the
   apparatus 35 to the body are conceivable. Essential is only that the apparatus is attached to
   the users body, in particular to the torso and/or the neck and/or head, so that the movements
   and orientation of the body and/or the neck and/or the head of the user 31 are correctly
   related to the movements and orientation of the apparatus 35.
30
   Fig. 1 is an illustration of a possible component structure of the apparatus 35. The
   components are all directly or indirectly connected to control unit 1. The control unit 1
   enables the communication between the different components and the interpretation of the
   signals in between the components. The communication and interpretation of the signals is
35 defined through a method, or so-called algorithm, of the control unit 1.

                                                       8
   The control unit is in particular a programmable microcontroller which enables the
   communication between and the control of the hardware components. The control unit makes
   it possible to transfer all the signals between the different hardware components and external
   applications/products connected to the device. Furthermore it enables the programming of
 5 the behaviour of the apparatus and so to tell it how to respond to situations (e.g.
   accelerometer values, feedback, snoring sound, upright posture, and more).
   The apparatus 35 furthermore includes a gravity-actuated sensor 3 (cf. Fig.1). Preferably the
   gravity actuated sensor is an electronic three-axes accelerometer / 3-axes MEMS
10 accelerometer to define the posture of the apparatus in three dimensions which is directly
   related to the posture of the body of the user 31. The introduction of a MEMS accelerometer
   is preferred because of the high frequency of measurements and fast response time to small
   changes in acceleration.
15 The apparatus also includes an alert device. In principle any type of alert that is noticed by
   the user in the specific circumstance, e.g. smell, sound, sight, taste and tactile -electronic
   stimulation, vibrotactile, (bone) conduction or any other may be applied. The alert device may
   for example be adapted for vibrotactile stimulation of the person 31, preferably by a vibration
   motor 6. The use of vibrotactile feedback may be preferable because it is comfortable in that
20 it does not hurt or injure the user 31 (like with electronics shocks) and does not disturb the
   sleep rhythm of the user 31 or partner of the user 31, like e.g. with sound.
   Additionally the alert device may include a speaker 14 for audible feedback to the user 31.
   Also the alert devices may include other type of alert sub-devices (generating e.g. smell,
25 sight, taste and tactile -electronic stimulation, (bone) conduction or any other) such that a
   variation of alert types can be given to the user. When providing the same stimulus,
   habituation occurs. Therefore the present invention proposes to use a stimulus variation in
   order to prevent this habituation effect. The stimulus variation may comprise a variation in
   type of stimulus, e.g. vibrotactile, tactile, electromagnetic, auditive or a combination of
30 stimulus types previously mentioned.
   Alternatively or in addition the stimulus variation can comprise a variation in strength or
   amplitude of the stimulus. Furthermore, alternatively or in addition, the stimulus variation can
   comprise a variation in the length of a stimulus and/or in the frequency of the stimulus.
35 Also, alternatively or in addition, the stimulus variation can comprise a variation in the
   interstimulus interval. Moreover, it is possible to give the stimulus on different locations on the

                                                    9
   body of a patient, such that the stimulus variation can comprises a variation in the location
   where the stimulus is given
   The variation type as described above can be randomised. Also the type of variation within a
 5 specific form of the stimulus can be randomised.
   The alert device may additionally be provided with a connection to other devices to enable
   remote monitoring by another individual, for example caretakers, nurses, parents or other
   family members.
10
   The apparatus 35 may include a display, preferably a LED display 7 to give visual feedback
   to the user. The introduction of a LED will enable the apparatus 35 to transfer information
   using visual feedback to the user 31 to indicate e.g. battery status, stored events, operation
   mode, progress, occupation, and more.
15
   The apparatus 35 may have a sound sensor, preferably a microphone 4 to detect noise or
   sound level from the environment, possibly to detect snoring, possibly to register
   disturbances. The introduction of a sound sensor enables the detection of snoring sounds so
   that even if the user is snoring in the desired position a type of feedback is activated to
20 change position or posture (e.g. so that the partner does not have to do so) and therefore the
   device is optimised to prevent snoring.
   The apparatus may be provided with a data storage device, preferably a memory 8 to store
   detected and measured events. Registering events makes it possible to gather information
25 about what is going on at a certain moment during the sleep. This can be used at another
   moment in time to determine, inform, diagnose, help and/or advise users or others of various
   elements. This may be feedback to the user, information about sleeping / sleep monitoring,
   combine the storage of events with a certain action to indicate something to the user, make
   calculations, averages, figures, etcetera.
30
   The apparatus may be provided with a feature to transfer stored data, preferably a USB
   interface 10 to enable connecting the apparatus 35 to a personal computer. The ability to
   transfer stored data enables a lot of options to combine the apparatus 35 with other
   appliances/software/products to enhance the capabilities of the stored events. This way
35 information can be transferred or exchanged between appliances/products/software to offer
   new features to the user or give them more insight in the information stored in the apparatus

                                                    10
   35.
   The apparatus 35 may have external communication through a USB interface 10, but
   alternatively or additionally through a wireless interface 9 for communication with a computer
 5 or other devices. The communication with external devices, e.g. a personal computer, baby
   phone, or other, enables the exchange of information between those devices and enables
   options for information feedback, remote monitoring, remote data uploads or remote control.
   The apparatus 35 has a power supply 13, preferably an integrated battery to enable wireless
10 use of the apparatus 35. The integration of the battery makes it possible to use the apparatus
   35 wherever wanted without the need of a wall plug. Furthermore it makes the apparatus 35
   wireless, which improves the comfort for the user 31 and the freedom to move in/around/away
   from the bed or sleeping area.
15 The apparatus may have a charging system 11, 12, preferably including a USB port 11 which
   enables charging the battery of the apparatus 35 through an adapter or a personal computer.
   Charging the battery with a charging system 11, 12 means the user does not have to open
   up the apparatus 35 and/or to change the batteries to keep using the product. This minimises
   the occurrence of problems to the apparatus 35 and makes it easier to supply it with required
20 power. Preferably a charging system based on induction or exchange of movement to enable
   the charging of the battery without the need for an opening in the housing, such that the
   apparatus can be made moisture/waterproof.
   The apparatus 35 may include a temperature switch, preferably an integrated circuit
25 temperature switch to define overheating of electronic components to disconnect power
   supply if temperature exceeds a certain threshold value. Thus, to prevent overheating of the
   device and minimise the risk.
   The apparatus may include a temperature detection means, preferably an integrated
30 temperature sensor 5, additionally an external temperature sensor connected to the device to
   detect for example body temperature to define sleep comfort, which may be especially
   important for monitoring babies. The introduction of an integrated temperature sensor 5
   enables measurement of the temperature of the body to enable more options of feedback
   and sleep information. First of all the user can be indicated of a high temperature during
35 sleep to improve the quality and comfort of the sleep. Also it is possible to alarm in certain
   situations and information can be given to the user about the body temperature during sleep;
   especially with babies or children. For babies, correct temperature of the body during sleep is

                                                     11
   very important.
   Furthermore the apparatus 35 may be provided with additional integrated detection means
   (not shown), like e.g. a sound sensor, shock sensor, humidity sensor and more for additional
 5 functions like detection of respiration, snoring sound, environmental influence factors and
   more. Moreover the apparatus 35 may have connectors (not shown) for external sensors;
   e.g. position sensors, shock sensors, respiration sensors and more for additional functions
   like detection of blood saturation, brain activity, airflow, respiration, breathing pattern, heart
   rate, muscle movement, snoring, apnoea and more.
10
   The apparatus 35 includes an internal clock 15, preferably crystal oscillator to provide the
   time and data to the control unit. The internal clock 15 enables the registration of events in
   relation with time to create a timestamp for the event. In this way the time the event took
   place can be defined more precise for storage into the memory 8 and/or feedback (alert)
15 through information given to the user 31.
   The apparatus may be supplied with software which can be loaded on a computer. The
   software program may be used to download, store, analyse, display, visualise and/or transfer
   data from the apparatus to the computer 35. The software program enables the
20 interpretation, visualisation and comparison of the events and data stored by the apparatus to
   enable feedback of events. This way events registered at a certain moment can be
   communicated at another moment in time through which the user 31 can be informed about
   their behaviour. The most beneficial result of this is that it is possible to guide and train the
   user 31 into sleeping with an improved sleeping posture by giving more insight and to
25 stimulate the use of the apparatus 35. This can also be used for guidance, monitoring or
   control by externals like for example a parent, doctor or nurse. Preferably the software can
   be used to combine parameters, values, functions, and more between the proposed invention
   and external products or appliances that can be connected to the personal computer or
   through the world wide web.
30
   The apparatus 35 has a switch 2 which is connected to the control unit 1 to activate it.
   Whenever the apparatus 35 is activated, the accelerometer 3, microphone 4 and temperature
   sensory means 5 execute measurements to be transferred to the control unit 1 for
   interpretation.
35
   The accelerometer 3 returns values for the accelerations measured in all three dimensions x,
   y and z. From these values the activity, movement and or position can be derived. The

                                                   12
   microphone 4 returns values for the frequency and amplitude of the measured sound. The
   temperature sensory means 5 returns values for the temperature measured in its
   environment (e.g. body temperature, device temperature and more).
 5 Whenever the signals from the accelerometer 3, microphone 4 or temperature sensory
   means 5 exceed a predefined threshold, e.g. undesired body posture, occurring apnoeas or
   snoring, when interpreted by the control unit 1 the actuator 6 (e.g. a vibration motor) is
   activated to indicate the user 31 that the body position needs to be changed.
10 Whenever visual feedback to the user is needed the control unit 1 activates the LED display
   7 to switch on the light of the LED display 7 in a predefined sequence.
   Whenever an event takes place within the control unit 1 which is predefined to be stored it is
   done so by sending a signal from the control unit 1 to the internal memory 8. The control unit
15 1 can also retrieve information stored into the memory 8 whenever necessary.
   Whenever a wireless interface 9 is connected to the control unit 1 the apparatus 35 is able to
   communicate through the wireless interface 9 with a wireless receiver 16 of an external
   device.
20
   Whenever an external device is connected to the device through the USB port 11 signals are
   exchanged between the USB port 11 and the control unit 1 through the USB interface 10.
   The USB interface 10 translates the signals from the USB port 11 into signals to the control
   unit 1 and vice versa.
25
   Whenever an external device is connected to the device through the USB port 11 power can
   be transferred to the power supply 13 with the use of a charge control 12. The charge control
   12 enables the transfer of electronic power from the USB port 11 to the power supply 13.
30 The power supply 13 is connected to all components within the device which have to be
   supplied with electronic power. The electronic power transferred from the power supply 13 to
   the control unit 1 is measured by the control unit 1 to define the status of the power supply
   13.
35 Whenever a speaker 14 is connected to the control unit 1 it is possible to sound an alarm or
   produce sound through the speaker 14.

                                                 13
  The clock 15 is directly connected to the control unit 1 to provide the control unit 1 with the
  values to define the date and the time. This information from the clock 15 is used to store the
  date and time for events stored from the control unit 1 into the memory 8.
5 Whenever communication through the USB port 11 or wireless interface 9 is possible with
  software from an external device 17 the control unit 1 can exchange information or programs
  with the software 17.

                                                  14
   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
   1.      A sleep posture alerting apparatus, comprising:
   - an electronic control unit,
 5 - a body posture detecting sensor operatively connected to the control unit for detecting the
   posture of the body of the user, and
   - an alarming device operatively connected to the control unit,
   wherein, the sleep posture alerting apparatus has a normal operational mode, in which
   when the posture of the body detected by the body posture detecting sensor exits a
10 predefined posture range - the control unit sends an alarm signal to the alarming device, and
   the alarming device generates an alarm based on the signal received from the control unit, to
   alert said person, characterised in that
   the sleep posture alerting apparatus furthermore comprises a temperature sensor operatively
   connected to the control unit for detecting a body temperature of the user, wherein the
15 control unit is programmed to send an alarm signal to the alarming device only if the detected
   temperature is within a predetermined temperature range.
   2.      The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the temperature sensor is located in the
   apparatus such that a warm-up time is provided before the detected temperature is within the
20 predetermined temperature range.
   3.      The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the predetermined temperature range is
   at around body temperature.
25 4.      The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit is programmed not to
   send an alarm signal to the alarming device when the detected temperature is below the
   predetermined temperature range.
   5.      The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit is programmed not to
30 send an alarm signal to the alarming device when the detected temperature is above the
   predetermined temperature range.
   6.      The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the temperature sensor is an integrated
   temperature sensor.
35
   7.      A sleep posture alerting method, wherein the sleep posture of the person is detected
   and wherein the person is automatically alerted by a stimulus generated by an alarming

                                                   15
   device when the sleep posture is out of a predetermined body posture range, wherein a body
   temperature of a user is detected by a temperature sensor, wherein the alarming device is
   configured to generate alarm stimuli only if a detected temperature is within a predetermined
   temperature range.
 5
   8.      The method according to claim 7, wherein the temperature sensor is located in the
   apparatus such that a warm-up time is provided before the detected temperature is within the
   predetermined temperature range.
10 9.      The method according to claim 7, wherein the predetermined temperature range is at
   around body temperature.
   10.     The method according to claim 7, wherein the control unit is programmed not to send
   an alarm signal to the alarming device when the detected temperature is below the
15 predetermined temperature range.
   11.     The method according to claim 7, wherein the control unit is programmed not to send
   an alarm signal to the alarming device when the detected temperature is above the
   predetermined temperature range.
20
   12.     The method according to claim 7, wherein the temperature sensor is an integrated
   temperature sensor.
   13.     A sleep posture alerting apparatus, comprising
25 - an electronic control unit,
   - a body posture detecting sensor operatively connected to the control unit for detecting the
   posture of the body, and
   - an alarming device operatively connected to the control unit,
   wherein, the sleep posture alerting apparatus has a normal operational mode, in which
30 when the posture of the body detected by the sensor exits a predefined posture range - the
   control unit sends an alarm signal to the alarming device, and the alarming device generates
   an alarm based on the signal received from the control unit, to alert said person, wherein the
   alarming device is configured to generate different alarm stimuli, and in that the control unit is
   programmed to send an alarm signal to the alarming device such that a stimulus variation is
35 effected by the alarming device.

                                                    16
   14.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the alarming device is configured to
   generate different types of stimulus, and wherein the control unit is programmed to send an
   alarm signal to effect a variation in stimulus type generated by the alarming device.
 5 15.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the alarming device is configured to
   generate stimuli with varying strength or amplitude, and wherein the control unit is
   programmed to send an alarm signal to effect a variation in the strength or amplitude of the
   stimulus or stimuli generated by the alarming device.
10 16.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the alarming device is configured to
   generate stimuli with varying length, and wherein the control unit is programmed to send an
   alarm signal to effect a variation in the length of the stimulus or stimuli generated by the
   alarming device.
15 17.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the alarming device is configured to
   generate stimuli with varying frequency, and wherein the control unit is programmed to send
   an alarm signal to effect a variation in the frequency of the stimulus or stimuli generated by
   the alarming device.
20 18.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit is programmed to send
   an alarm signal to effect a variation in the length of the interstimulus interval of the stimulus
   or stimuli generated by the alarming device.
   19.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the alarming device is configured to
25 generate stimuli with varying melodies or messages, and wherein the control unit is
   programmed to send an alarm signal to effect a variation in melodies or messages of the
   stimulus or stimuli generated by the alarming device.
   20.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the alarming device is configured to
30 generate stimuli on different locations on the body of the user, and wherein the control unit is
   programmed to send an alarm signal to effect a variation in the location where the stimulus or
   stimuli is generated by the alarming device.
   21.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit is programmed to
35 randomise the variation in the stimulus or stimuli generated by the alarming device.

                                                  17
   22.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit is programmed to send a
   signal to repeat a certain alarm stimulus and then send a signal to change the stimulus
   based on a certain variable.
 5 23.     The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the variable is a set period of time or a
   set number of generated stimuli.
   24.     The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the variable is an external input variable
   measured by a detecting device.
10
   25.     The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the detecting device comprises a body
   activity detecting sensor, and wherein the control unit is programmed to determine whether
   the person is asleep based on the level of body activity per time period.
15 26.     The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the detecting device comprises a body
   posture detecting sensor combined with a timer to determine a reaction time of body posture
   change to the generated stimulus, and wherein the variable is the event of a time increase in
   reaction time compared to the previous reaction time or an average of previous reaction
   times, wherein the control unit is programmed to evaluate the detected reaction of the user
20 by the body posture detecting sensor, and to adapt the stimulus based on the evaluated
   reaction.
   27.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit is programmed with a
   pause function so as to allow pausing of the operation of the apparatus.
25
   28.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus is arranged and
   configured to automatically change the intensity of the stimulus during a second part of the
   night of sleep.
30 29.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit is programmed to send a
   pre-warning signal to the alarming device such that the alarming device generates a pre
   warning stimulus as an introduction for the patient that an alarm is upcoming, wherein the
   pre-warning signal has not the intention to evoke an active reaction of the user.
35 30.     The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the strength, type or location of the pre
   warning stimulus is dependent on the prior stimulus strength, type or location.

                                                    18
   31.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit has a reset feature that
   resets the operational mode to a starting program or another program, wherein the reset
   feature can be activated by a predetermined occurrence.
 5 32.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus is arranged and
   configured to automatically change the intensity or type of the stimulus towards the end of
   the night or the end of the sleeping period, wherein preferably, there is an end period before
   waking up in which the user does not receive any feedback from the apparatus.
10 33.     A sleep posture alerting method, wherein the sleep posture of a person is detected
   and wherein the person is automatically alerted by a stimulus generated by an alerting device
   when the sleep posture is out of a predetermined body posture range, wherein a stimulus
   variation is effected by the alerting device.
15 34.     Method according to claim 21, wherein the stimulus variation comprises a variation in
   the type of stimulus, wherein the type of stimulus may be for example vibrotactile, tactile,
   electromagnetic, auditive, (bone) conduction or a combination thereof.
   35.     Method according to claim 22, wherein the stimulus variation comprises a variation in
20 the strength or amplitude of the stimulus.
   36.     Method according to claim 22, wherein the stimulus variation comprises a variation in
   the length of the stimulus.
25 37.     Method according to claim 22, wherein the stimulus variation comprises a variation in
   the frequency of the stimulus.
   38.     Method according to claim 22, wherein the stimulus variation comprises a variation in
   the length of the interstimulus interval of the stimulus.
30
   39.     Method according to claim 22, wherein the stimulus variation comprises a variation in
   a melody or message of the stimulus.
   40.     Method according to claim 22, wherein the stimulus can be given on different
35 locations on the body of a patient and wherein the stimulus variation comprises a variation in
   the location where the stimulus is given.

                                                  19
   41.     Method according to claim 22, wherein the stimulus variation is randomised.
   42.     Method according to claim 22, wherein the response of the patient is measured, and
   wherein the change of the stimulus is effected based on the response.
 5
   43.     Method according to claim 22, wherein a certain alarm stimulus is repeated and the
   response time is measured to the generated stimulus, and wherein the stimulus is changed
   based on the measured response and response time, if an increase in response time occurs
   compared to the previous response time or an average of previous response times.
10
   44.     Method according to claim 22, wherein the intensity or type of the stimulus is changed
   towards the end of the night or the end of the sleeping period, wherein preferably, there is an
   end period before waking up in which the user does not receive any feedback.
15 45.     A sleep posture alerting apparatus, comprising:
   - an electronic control unit,
   - a body posture detecting sensor operatively connected to the control unit for detecting the
   posture of the body of the user, and
   - an alarming device operatively connected to the control unit,
20 wherein, the sleep posture alerting device has a normal operational mode, in which - when
   the posture of the body detected by the body posture detecting sensor exits a predefined
   posture range - the control unit sends an alarm signal to the alarming device, and the
   alarming device generates an alarm based on the signal received from the control unit, to
   alert said person, wherein
25 the sleep posture alerting apparatus furthermore comprises a temperature sensor operatively
   connected to the control unit for detecting a body temperature of the user, wherein the
   control unit is programmed to send an alarm signal to the alarming device only if the detected
    temperature is within a predetermined temperature range.
30 46.     The apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the temperature sensor is located in the
   apparatus such that a warm-up time is provided before the detected temperature is within the
   predetermined temperature range.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
