ABSTRACT
Embodiments of the present invention provide a bone fixation assembly (10) that can
provide polyaxial fixation. The polyaxial fixation may be provided by fins (24) that protrude
from an opening (18) in a bone plate (12) or fins (110) that protrude from a fastener head
(104).

 5             SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR USING POLYAXIAL PLATES
           The disclosure of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application No.
   2006272646 as originally filed is incorporated herein by reference.
            This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application Nos 20132027<removed-date>00491,
10  the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
           This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
   60/702,231 filed July 25, 2005 titled "Locking Screw", the entire contents of which is
   hereby incorporated by reference.
15                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention relates generally to orthopedic fixation devices and bone
   plating systems for fracture fixation, and particularly to systems and methods for
   using bone plates that provide polyaxial fixation of fasteners.
           Bone fractures are often repaired by securing a bone plate across the fracture.
20 Depending upon which bone is to be treated, the bone plate may be straight or curved
   to match the contour of the bone for which it is designed. Bone plates may also be
   provided in many shapes and sizes. In cases where a bone is severely comminuted or
   if bone segments are missing, the use of bone plate and screw systems promotes
   healing of the fracture by providing a rigid fixation or support structure between the
25 bone and the plate.
           Bone plates may be secured to the bone in a number of ways. An existing
   solution is a plate and screw system where the screws are locked in the plate. A bone
   screw is threaded through an opening in the plate and into the bone. The screw is
   then secured to the bone plate via threads in the screw head that cooperate with
30 threaded openings in the bone plate. This secures the plate with respect to the bone
   and provides rigid fixation because the relationship between the plate and screw(s) is
   fixed. Because the head of the locking screw interdigitates with threads in the plate,
   the plate and screw(s) form one stable system, and the stability of the fracture can be
   dependent upon the stiffness of the construct. Locking a screw into the plate can
35 achieve angular and axial stability and eliminate the possibility for the screw to toggle,
   slide, or be dislodged, reducing the risk of postoperative loss of reduction.
           However, although may reduce the incidence of loosening, they provide only
   one fixed angle relationship between the plate and the screw(s). They have a limited
   insertion angle because the threads of the head mate with the threads of the hole
40 in one way only. The longitudinal axis of the screw lines up with the central axis of the
                                                 1

     hole, and no angular variation is allowed. In short, locking screws are unidirectional,
     limiting their use in some instances.
             For example, when treating a severe fracture, fragments may be shattered
     and in irregular positions. Although a surgeon may wish to obtain the benefits of a
  5 locking screw and bone plate used together, the angle at which the locking screw
     extends from the plate at a certain opening may not be the angle that would allow
     the surgeon to "grab" (or seize, or otherwise secure) the desired, random bone
     fragment, In this case, the surgeon may need to secure the plate to the bone
     somewhere else, or use a non-locking screw. Although non-locking screws do not
 10 lock into the plate, they can be inserted at various angles.
             Specifically, non-locking screws are secured into bone in the same way that
     locking screws are, but they are not secured to the plate. Their heads are typically
     rounded where they contact the bone plate. Thus, one advantage of non-locking
    screws is that they can be inserted at various angles because they are not limited by
15 the thread-to-thread contact of locking screws with the bone plate. However, if the
    surgeon desires the rigid stable construct of a locking screw and plate, the use of a
    non-locking screw to obtain the desired angular orientation is not necessarily
    optimal.
             There have been bone plating systems developed that provide the surgeon
20 with the option of choosing a non-locking or a locking screw. In some embodiments,
    these systems provide plates with some threaded holes (that may receive with either
    locking screws or non-locking screws) and some non-threaded holes (for non-locking
    screws). There are also systems that provide partially threaded slots to allow either
    non-locking or locking screws to be used together. Such combination slots provide
25 surgeons with the intraoperative choice about whether to use the plate with locking
    screws, non-locking screws, or with a combination of both. These combination slots
    typically have a partially threaded opening that can receive either a compression
    screw or a locking screw. However, because these combination slots are only
    partially threaded, the locking screw(s) may not be able to maintain the fixed angular
30 relationship between the screw(s) and plate under physiological loads. Specifically,
    the locking screws within the plate are only partially captured and thus only partially
    surrounded by threads. Under high stress and loading conditions, the slot may
    distort and allow the fixed angular relationship between the locking screw and plate
                                               2

      to change. This can result in loss of fixation or loss of established intraoperative
      plate orientation. Moreover, the locking screw can still only be inserted at a single
      angle - the predetermined angle defined by the manufacturer.
             Additionally, current bone plate and screw systems still limit a surgeon's ability
  5 to both (a) lock a fastener with respect to the bone plate, but still (b) allow the
     fastener to extend from the bone plate at various angles. Locking screws lock into
     the plate, but only in a single angular configuration, and non-locking screws allow
     various angle configurations, but they do not provide a stable construct with the
     plate. Accordingly, none of these options allow a surgeon to capture bone fragments
 10 that do not fall in line with the axis of the opening provided on the plate In a rigid
     fashion. As example of this problem is shown in FIG. 21. Thus, currently available
     options can still lead to malalignment and poor clinical results.
            There have, however, been some attempts to provide polyaxial locking
    systems. For example, one effort includes providing holes that accept fixed angle
 15 locking pegs and multidirectional locking pegs, with a threaded cap inserted over the
    multidirectional peg to hold it into place. Such a system can be cumbersome to use
    because although the multidirectional peg can be inserted at any angle, the surgeon
    then needs to thread a small cap onto the top of the peg head and into the plate,
    requiring an extra step, extra time, and extra instrumentation. Such systems also fail
20 to allow the use of non-locking members in conjunction with the locking and
    multidirectional pegs.
            Other systems that have attempted to offer polyaxial fixation include providing
    a bone plate with inserts at the hole peripheries made out of a deformable material,
    with the remaining part of the plate made of titanium. The plate is manufactured and
25 the inserts are then pushed into the hole peripheries and engaged In place by
    deformation and pressure. When screws are inserted, the inserts deform and are
    compressed between the edges of the holes of the plate, which holds the screws
    and inserts in place. Challenges with such systems are that they cannot be used
    with non-locking screws, the Inserts do not have the strength to receive and hold a
30 regular locking screws, (i.e., they do not provide the surgeon with options), and
    plates with deformable inserts are more expensive to manufacture than regular bone
    plates. Other attempts have failed to provide adequate locking mechanisms.
                                                3

        Another attempt at polyaxial fixation includes a plate with holes that have an internal
jacket with recesses that extend away from the axis of the hole or into the internal jacket
surface. This attempt is described in International Application WO 2005/018472, titled Bone
Plate. The internal jacket surface of the plate described in that application is threaded or has
ribs or protuberances. A bone screw is intended to be pulled into the hole of the plate by the
internal jacket surface. If the bone screw head is threaded, when the screw is inclined, the
threaded head is intended to "jump over" the pitches of the threads in the hole of the plate
interrupted by the recesses, without "cutting through" them. The goal of the invention is to
provide a bone plate that can have bone screws introduced at an angle that is different from the
specified axis of the hole and secured into position.
        However, some of the problems encountered by this attempted solution are that (1)
threaded openings in bone plates typically require the plate to be of a certain thickness and
thus, do not lend themselves to use with a thin plate, (2) threaded openings can be difficult and
more expensive to manufacture than non-threaded openings in a bone plate, and (3) threaded
openings can take more effort in use because the surgeon needs to have the appropriate
alignment for use. Moreover, the thread of this application are short because they are
interrupted by the recesses so it is likely that a fastener will not actually "grab" the threads to
get good engagement.
        Accordingly, it is desirable for embodiments of the invention to provide an improved
bone plating system that overcomes the deficiencies of the prior art. It is also desirable for
embodiments of the invention to provide a system that provides a stable connection between a
bone and a bone plate using a fastener that permits different angles to he obtained between the
bone plate and the fastener, while the fastener also locks into the bone plate. 'This would allow
surgeons to capture random bone fragments that are in irregular positions, for example, in
cases of severe fractures with highly fragmented bone fragments. Inthese and other cases, it
would be advantageous to provide a fastener and plate system that allows the surgeon to
choose the angle at which the screw is inserted through, and rigidly affixed in, an opening of
the plate.
         Such an improvement would allow a surgeon to direct the fastener toward bone
fragments that arc not necessarily located directly beneath the opening in the plate. It would
                                                  4

H  1Mt10.                4cb-l  0
bone fracture. Allowing surgeons to choose the angle at which the fastener is inserted into the
plate would lead to better tailoring of the system to the specific nature of the bone fracture to
be treated. It would also allow surgeons to adjust their strategy as necessary after the surgical
site has been accessed, but prior to insertion of the fastener into bone material. Additionally, in
situations where it is desirable to insert a fastener into a plate in a coaxial or polyaxial
direction, the examples described heroin would provide such a secure fit.
          According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a bone plate
system for fixation of bone, the system comprising: a bone plate comprising a bone contacting
surface, an tipper surface, and a first opening extending between the bone contacting surface
and the upper surface, the first opening comprising a lower portion, a non-threaded upper
portion, and a threaded portion comprising threads and converging towards the lower portion,
the lower portion comprising a smallest diameter of the first opening; and a first fastener
comprising a head at least partially comprising a spherical portion and a first material,
wherein, when the first fastener is inserted into the first opening, the threads of the first
opening form threads in the first material on the head of the first fastener to secure the first
fastener in place at one of a plurality of possible angles within the first opening.
          According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a bone plate
system for fixation of bone, the system comprising: a bone plate comprising a bone contacting
surface, an upper surface, and a first opening comprising threads and extending between the
bone contacting surface and the upper surface; and a first fastener comprising a head at least
partially encompassed by a fastener seating surface, the fastener seating surface comprising a
first material and a smooth and contoured portion, wherein, when the first fastener is inserted
into the first opening, the threads of the first opening form threads in the fastener seating
surface of the first fastener to secure the first fastener in place at one of a plurality of possible
angles within the first opening.
          According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
reducing a fracture of a bone, the method comprising: reducing the fracture to bring bone
fragments in close apposition; providing a bone plate comprising openings, wherein at least
some of the openings comprise threads; compressing the bone plate against the bone with a
first fastener to hold the fracture reduction; and inserting a second fastener into one of the
                                                   5

It i r      a b r   Xii
openings in the bone plate comprising threads, wherein the second fastener comprises a head
at least partially encompassed by a fastener seating surface, the fastener seating surface
comprising a smooth and contoured portion, and wherein, when the second fastener is inserted
into the at least some of the openings comprising threads, the threads of the opening form
threads in the fastener seating surface of the second fastener to secure the second fastener in
place at one of a plurality of possible angles relative to the bone plate.
        According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
reducing a fracture of a bone, the method comprising: providing a bone plate comprising a
bonc-contacting surface, an upper surface, and a first and second opening extending between
the bone-contacting and upper surfaces, wherein the first opening comprises threads;
providing a first fastener comprising a head at least partially encompassed by a fastener
seating surface, the fastener seating surface comprising a smooth and contoured portion:
inserting the first fastener through the first opening and on a first side ofthe fracture, wherein
the threads of the first opening form threads in the fastener seating surface of the first fastener
to secure the first fastener in place at one of a plurality of possible angles within the first
opening; and inserting a second fastener through the second opening and into engagement
with the bone on a second side of the fracture opposite the first side to adjust positioning of the
bone and surrounding tissue.
        Examples of the present invention relate to a bone fixation assembly that can provide
polyaxial fixation. The polyaxial fixation may be provided by fins that protrude from an
opening in a bone plate or tins that protrude from a fastener head. For example, there may be
provided a polyaxial bone fixation assembly comprising
        (a)       a bone plate comprising a lower surface, an upper surface and at least one
                  opening extending from the lower surface to the tipper surface;
        (b)       a fastener that is insertable through the opening; and
        (c)       at least one member of co-operation between the opening and the fastener
                  comprising a plurality of protruding tins located within the opening or on the
                  fastener.
        In a specific example, the opening has a non-threaded inner surface and wherein the
fins are located on the inner surface.
                                                    6

           I614f4CM L  ~I     Jfl
         Further examples have fins that are a series of concavely indented, inwardly protruding
 fins that are adapted to secure a threaded head of a fastener in place at varying angles.
         According to a further example, the opening is further defined by a round
circumference at the upper surface and a jagged circumference formed by the protruding fins
at the lower surface.
         According to a further example, [be protruding fins form a concave portion of the inner
surface.
         According to an even further example, the protruding fins have bases that meet the
inner surface in substantially the same plane.
         According to another example, the fastener has a threaded head adapted to engage with
the protruding fins.
         Another example provides fins that have a tapered shape, a straight shape, a
rectangular shape, or a triangular shape.
         A further example provides a bone plate with the opening located on the head.
         In a further specific example, the fastener has a head with fins, wherein the fins are
adapted to cooperate with threads in a bone plate.
         According to another example, the fins are provided in more than one layer.
         Another example provides the opening in the bone plate with one or more rectangular
threads.
         In a further example, the fins are trapezoidal y-shaped, rounded, oval, rectangular,
curved, rhomboid, diamond-shaped, or triangular. The fins may also have the edges of fins
taper inwardly, outwardly, or are about parallel with one another.
         According to a further example, the bone plate is adapted to contact a femur, a distal
tibia, a proximal tibia, a proximal humerus, a distal humerus, a clavicle, a fibula, an uina, a
radius, bones of (he foot, or bones of the hand. Further examples have a bone plate with one or
                                                7

14-   Rr      orbhD(1.        011i.1 Jl iIIl
more of the following features:
          (a)        contoured, straight, or flat;
          (b)        a head portion that is contoured to match a particular bone surface;
          (c)        a head that flares out to form an L-shape, T-shape, or Y-shape; and
          (d)        any combination thereof
          Other examples provide the bone plate with one or more of the follow openings:
          (a)        a threaded opening;
          (b)        a non-threaded opening;
          (c)        an opening adapted to receive locking or non-locking fasteners;
          (d)        a combination slot; or;
          (e)        any combination thereof.
          Other examples of the invention also provide methods flor securing a bone plate to a
bone using polyaxial fixation. For example, there is provided a method for securing a bone
plate to a bone using polyaxial fixation, comprising:
          (a)       providing a bone plate comprising a lower surface, an upper surface, and at least
                    one opening extending from the lower surface to the upper surface, the opening
                    having a non-threaded inner surface with one or more protruding fins located on
                    the inner surface;
         (b)        providing a fastener having a shaft and a. head, the head having at least one set of
                    threads adapted to cooperate with the protruding fins;
         (c)        inserting the fastener into the opening ofthe bone plate and allowing the at least
                    one set of threads to engage the fins of the plate; and
         (d)        securing the bone plate to bone.
         Another example provides a method for securing a bone plate to a bone using polyaxial
fixation, comprising:
         (a)        providing a bone plate comprising a lower surface, an upper surface, and at least
                    one opening extending from the lower surface to the upper surface; the opening
                    having one or more threads;
         (b)        providing a fastener having a shaft and a head, the head having at least one set of
                    fins adapted to cooperate with threads of the plate;
                                                      8

         (c)     inserting the fastener into the opening of the bone plate and allowing the one or
threads to engage the fins of the fastener head; and
         (d)     securing the bone plate to bone.
         The above examples include using polyaxial fixation to draw a bone fragment into
alignment.
         Another example includes inserting a locking screw or a non-locking screw into the
bone plate.
              The present invention will now be described, by way of non-limiting example
only, with reference to the accompanying drawings briefly described as follows.
         FIG. I shows a perspective view of a bone plate having fins according to one
embodiment of the invention with a fastener inserted therein.
         FIG. 2 shows a top perspective view of an opening in a bone plate according to one
embodiment of the invention.
         FIG. 3 shows a top view of a bone plate having multiple openings, with a fastener
inserted therein.
         FIG. 4 shows an underneath view of the bone plate of FIG. 3.
         FIG. 5shows a side perspective view of a bone plate with fasteners inserted therein to
illustrate a few of the multiple angles at which the plate can receive a fastener.
         FIG. 6 shows an example of a fastener for use with various bone plates described
herein,
         FIG. 7 shows a top plan view of an alternate embodiment of an opening in a bone
plate.
         FIG. 8 shows a perspective view of the bone plate of FIG. 7.
         FIG. 9 shows a top plan view of a further embodiment of an opening in a bone plate.
                                                   9

H                IminN tN.1cculI
                            .1.1ic1ocM11:7I'orbftC
         FIG. 10 shows a perspective view of the bone plate of FIG. 9.
         FIGS. 11- 15 show alternate shapes and types of bone plates that may be used with
various embodiments of this invention.
         FIG. 16 shows a cross-section view of an alternate example having a finned fastener in
place in a bone plate.
         FIG. I7 shows a side perspective view of a fastener having a finned head according to
one embodiment of the invention.
         FIG. 18 shows a top perspective view of the fastener of FIG. 17.
         FIG. 19 shows a top perspective view of a bone plate that may be used to receive the
fastener of FIGS. 17 and 18.
         FIG. 20 shows a cross-section of the threads of the plate of FIG. 19.
         FlG. 21 shows an example of a fracture that may he treated with various embodiments
of the invention.
        FIG. 22 shows a perspective view of a fastener according to another embodiment ofthe
present invention.
        FIG. 23 shows a cross-sectional view of the fastener of FIG.22.
        Embodiments of the present invention provide a bone fixation assembly that can accept
and fix fasteners at a plurality of angles. A specific embodiment of a bone fixation assembly
10 is shown as a bone plate 12 and fastener 80 in FIG, 1. As
                                                   10

     shown In more detail In FIGS. 2-4, bone plate 12 has a lower surface 14 and an
     upper surface 16 and one or more openings 18 that extend from the lower surface
     14 to the upper surface 16.
            The embodiments described herein may be used in connection with any type
  5 of bone plate, non-limiting examples of which are shown in FIGS. 11-15. Plate 12
     may be adapted to contact one or more of a femur, a distal tibia, a proximal tibia, a
     proximal humerus, a distal humerus, a clavicle, a fibula, an ulna, a radius, bones of
    the foot, or bones of the hand. The bone plate may be curved, contoured, straight,
    or flat. It may be a periarticular plate or a straight plate, An example of a straight
 10 plate in shown in FIG. 11. Plate may have a head portion that is contoured to match
    a particular bone surface, such as a metaphysis or diaphysis, flares out from the
    shaft portion, that forms an L-shape, T-shape, Y-shape, with the shaft portion, or that
    forms any other appropriate shape to fit the bone to be treated. An example of a T
    shaped plate is shown in FIGS. 12-15, the openings on the plates in those figures
 15 are described in more detail below.
            Bone plate 12 may be comprised of titanium, stainless steel, cobalt chrome,
    plastic - such as polyetheretherketone (PEEK), polyethylene, ultra high molecular
    weight polyethylene (UHMWPE), or a carbon composite - resorbable polylactic acid
    (PLA), polyglycolic acid (PGA), combinations or alloys of such materials or any other
20 appropriate material that has sufficient strength to be secured to and hold bone,
    while also having sufficient biocompatibility to be implanted into a body. Although
    the above list of materials includes many typical materials out of which bone plates
    are made, it should be understood that bone plates comprised of any appropriate
    material are within the scope of this invention.
25          Opening 18 of plate 12 is shown having a central axis 20, and it is adapted to
    receive a fastener. The fastener may be any typical, standard locking fastener or a
    non-locking fastener, although the embodiments described herein are intended for
    particular use with locking fasteners that have a series of threads on their heads.
    FIGS. 5-6 show examples of fastener 80 that may be used in accordance with
30 embodiments of this invention. As shown specifically in FIG. 6, fastener 80 has a
    shaft 82 and a head 84. Shaft 82 may be threaded or otherwise configured to
    engage bone. It may be fully threaded, partially threaded, comprise a helical blade,
    and/or may comprise one or more tacks, deployable talons, expanding elements, or
                                                   11

      so forth. Any feature that allows shaft 82 to engage bone is considered within the
      scope of this invention and may be referred to generally as a "threaded shaft" for the
      sake of convenience. It is also possible, however, that shaft 82 is not threaded, so
      that fastener 80 takes the form of a peg or a pin. This alternative embodiment may
  5 be preferred in certain procedures where, for instance, the main goal is to prevent
      tilting of a bone segment, or in procedures where there is no concern of fastener 80
      pulling out from the bone and hence no need for shaft 82 to be threaded or otherwise
      configured to engage bone. For the sake of reference, shaft 82 Is also shown having
      a longitudinal axis 86. The end of shaft 82 may be a self-tapping or self-drilling tip,
 10 as shown in more detail in FIG. 5.
               The head 84 of fastener 80 preferably has at least one set of threads 88.
     Threads 88 are typically any standard-type thread. For example, the threads 88 may
     be a continuous ridge or a non-continuous ridge. It may comprise a portion of a
     revolution, one complete revolution, multiple revolutions, a single lead, or multiple
 15 leads, or any other threads known in the art. Additionally or alternatively, head 84 of
     fastener 80 may include any other surface that will engage with and seat within
     specific features of plate (described further below). For example, head 84 may have
     a series of dimples, ridges, bumps, textured areas, or any other surface that can
     secure fastener 80 as described herein. As will be described in more detail below,
20 threads 88 of head are adapted to engage, associate with, or otherwise cooperate
    with fins 24 of opening 18. In short, any type of threaded fastener head is intended
    for use with various embodiments of this invention.
              Referring to FIG. 2, it can be seen that the embodiment shown has an
    opening 18 with an inner surface 22 that is defined by a series of concavely
25 indented, inwardly protruding fins 24. Fins 24 extend into opening 18 toward central
    axis 20. The bases 26 of fins 24 form a concave portion 28 at or near a round
    circumference 30 of upper surface 16. (The term "round" circumference Is intended
    to refer to any round shape, such an a circle, an oval, an egg-shaped circumference,
    or any other opening shaped to receive the head of a fastener 80.) The bases 26 of
30 the fins 24 may all meet In substantially the same plane and then angle downwardly
    and inwardly at a similar angle or slope.
              It bears noting that the concave portion 28 is smooth and non-threaded. In
    fact, there are not any threads on concave portion 28 or anywhere on inner surface
                                                  12

     22 of opening 18. The lack of threads helps ease the manufacturing of plate 12, and
     allows plate be manufactured as thinly as desired.
             For example, the thickness of plate 12 and the dimensions of fins 24 are
    typically dependent upon the pitch and threads of fastener 80. For example, a larger
  5  plate 12 for use with a larger fastener (e.g., for use on a femur bone) will likely be
    thicker and will have larger and thicker fins than a smaller plate (e.g., for use on a
    smaller bone). In specific embodiments, the fins 24 are particularly thin so that they
    can be moved up or down and deformed upon pressure. In some embodiments, the
    fins may be pressed toward the edges of the plate opening. A non-limiting
10  exemplary range of thicknesses for fins may be from about 0.5 mm to about 5 mm,
    although larger and smaller sizes are possible. In theory, the fins 24 are intended to
    fit between crimps on the threadform of fastener 80, as shown in FIG. 1.
            Providing a non-threaded inner surface 22 also allows the fastener 80 to be
    inserted into opening 18 at any desired angle, because there are not any threads to
15  interfere with the desired angle, as illustrated by FIG. 5. The fins 24 are Intended to
    slightly bend or deform in order to secure the fastener 80 in place in opening 18.
    Fins 24 actually engage threads 88 or other surface of fastener 10.
            Referring back to FIG. 2, in the embodiment shown, as fins 24 extend toward
    central axis 20, they taper to form tapered sides 32. The fins end at rounded tip 34,
20  although tips 34 can be pointed, square, rectangular, or any other appropriate
    configuration. For example, as shown In FIGS. 7 and 8, fins 24 may have straight
    edges or sides 42 and straight ends 44. This embodiment shows fins 24 that are
    partially rectangular-shaped. The openings 46 between fins 24 are slit-shaped.
            An alternate embodiment is shown in FIGS. 9 and 10, which illustrate fins 24
25  with a more triangular shape. In this embodiment, fins 24 are shown having sides 52
    that taper inwardly and edges 54 that are flat and small, forming the apex area 56
    where sides 52 come to an end. Openings 58 between fins 24 are more elongated
    than openings 46. Both sets of openings 46, 58 in these alternate embodiments are
    shown having rounded backs 60, where they meet inner surface 22 of opening 18. It
30  should be understood however, that these are merely examples of fin 24 shapes and
    openings 46, 58 and that any appropriate shapes are possible and considered within
    the scope of this invention. Non-limiting examples include trapezoidal, square,
                                                    13

       round, circular, triangular (with a pointed tip instead of apex area 56), and any other
       possible option.
              As shown in FIG. 4, a second circumference 36 at the lower or underneath
       surface 14 of plate 12 may appear to be more jagged than the round circumference
   5   30 at the upper surface 16 due to the fins 24 forming a portion of lower surface 14.
      The circumference can appear almost "flower-like" - each fin 24 appears to form a
      petal of the circumference, Alternatively, for the embodiments of FIGS. 7-10, the
      second circumference will appear similar to the shape created by fins 24.
              Although the figures show an opening 18 with about five to eight fins 24, it
 10   should be understood that any number of fins 24 Is considered within the scope of
      this invention. For example, there may be two or three fins, or ten or twenty or more
      fins 24, depending upon the plate for which the opening 18 is intended for use.
              The primary purpose of fins 24 is to grasp one or more threads 88 of a
      threaded head fastener in order to secure the fastener in place in the bone plate 12,
 15   but at any angle. For example, as opposed to threaded openings (which engage the
     threads of the head of the fastener in one way only, limiting the surgeon's ability to
      angle the fastener as desired), the fins 24 of this embodiment are still intended to
      secure the threads of the head of fastener in place, but at any angle. As the fastener
      is inserted, its threads start to engage the fins 24, as shown in FIG. 1. As discussed
20   above, the fins 24 may be very thin so that as the head threads 88 start to grab fins
     24, the fins 24 may move up or down as appropriate to engage the threads 88 and
     secure the fastener 80. In short, the threads 88 engage fins 24 (or fit in between fins
     24). In most cases, this movement of fins 24 is a permanent deformation, so that the
     fins cannot flex back and allow the fastener to work its way out.
25           As discussed above, finned openings 18 may be provided on all types of bone
     plates, examples of which are shown in FIGS. 11-15. FIG. 11 shows a specific
     example of an opening 18 with fins 24 (referred to as a finned opening 18), a smooth
     opening 60, a threaded opening 62, and a provisional pin opening 64. Other options
     are holes that can be used with either a threaded or non-threaded fastener, as well
30   as combination slots. It should be understood that these various types of openings
     may be used on any types of bone plates, in any combination and in any size,
     examples of which are shown In FIGS. 12-15. FIG. 12 shows a plurality of finned
     openings 18 in the head 70 of bone plate 12. This may help achieve better fixation
                                                      14

     of a fractured bone, because the fastener can be inserted at various angles to
     capture "renegade" or random bone fragments that have split from the bone during
     fracture, but still secure the bone fragments to the plate. For example, If a wrist bone
     is broken, there will be numerous fragments that may shatter in various directions.
  5 The plates 12 with finned openings 18 described herein can be used to place a
    fastener 8- at various angles in order to capture the renegade fragments that would
     otherwise not be secured to a bone plate using only a locking or a non-locking
    fastener. It should additionally be understood that other types of openings (in
    addition to or instead of finned openings 18) may be present in the head 70, as well
 10  as elsewhere on plate 12.
            As previously mentioned, fastener 80 may be any typical fastener, made out
    of any appropriate material. It will typically have a bore for receiving a driver in order
    to secure fastener into bone and into plate 12. The receiving bore may be any size
    and shape, for example, it may have a hexagonal configuration to receive a
15  corresponding hexagonal driver, a Phillips screw head, a flat-head, a star
    configuration, Torx, or any other appropriate configuration that can cooperate with a
    driver to place fastener.
            Turning now to the methods of implantation, the surgeon accesses the
    surgical site of interest, which can be an internal site at which a bone fracture is
20  located that requires stabilization to ensure proper healing. The fracture may be
    reduced with conventional forceps and guides (which are known to those in the art),
    and a bone plate of appropriate size and shape is placed over the fracture site. In
    some instances, the bone plate may be temporarily secured to the bone using
    provisional fixation pins. In the bone plates shown in FIGS. 11 and 12, provisional
25  fixation pins may be used through either the provisional pin openings, or any other
    opening (threaded or non-threaded or finned) in the plate. Provisional fixation
    provides for temporarily securing the bone plate to the bone before placing fixation
    screws through the bone plate, so that one can be certain the bone plate is property
    positioned before placing bone screws for permanent fixation of the bone plate to the
30  bone. Moreover, with provisional fixation, x-rays can be taken of the bone
    plate/construct without excess instruments in the field of view.
                                                   15

              Once the plate 12 is secured at a desired location in relation to the fracture
     (typically using one or more provisional fixation pins, although any other appropriate
     method may be used), the surgeon then identifies an insertion angle, or the direction
     along which fastener 80 is to be inserted through a selected opening 18 and driven
  5  into bone material. If bone plate 12 includes more than one opening, as shown in
     the figures, the surgeon also selects the specific opening to be used. After selecting
     the desired insertion angle and opening, the surgeon inserts shaft fastener 80
     through opening 18 until the tip contacts bone material. In some cases, a hole may
     need to be drilled or tapped into the bone along the insertion angle to facilitate the
 10  initial tapping or insertion of fastener 80. The surgeon then uses an appropriate
     driving tool in the receiving bore of head 84 to manipulate the fastener 80 into place.
              Because fastener 10 may be inserted at angles other than the aligned with the
     central axis 20 of the opening 18, as shown in FIG. 5, fastener 80 may be used to
     grab or secure bone fragments that are out of line with the traditional angle at which
 15  a locking screw would normally be Inserted. The surgeon may need to toggle or
     maneuver the fastener 80 in order to secure and draw in displaced bone fragments.
              Once the bone fragment is secured, the fastener 80 is ready to be secured to
    the plate 12. As fastener 80 is driven further into bone, it is also drawn further into
    plate 12. As threads 88 of fastener head 84 begin to contact fins 24, the fins are
20  allowed to engage within the threads to hold the fastener 80 in place in the desired
    angle, even angles that are other than in line with the central axis 20. The action of
    engagement between fins 24 and threads 88 rigidly affixes fastener 80 to the bone
    plate 12 at the desired insertion angle. In some embodiments, the surgeon may then
    use traditional locking and/or non-locking screws In other openings on plate. This
25  can help further secure the bone plate to the bone fracture if needed. One
    advantage of opening 18 is that it is adapted to receive any one of the potential
    fasteners that may be used with plate 12.
             In some instances, once all fasteners and/or screws are placed, the surgeon
    may place covers over the unused openings, particularly if there are any unused
30  openings that cross the fracture in order to strengthen the plate 12. Additionally or
    alternatively, the surgeon may use bone graft material, bone cement, bone void filler,
    and any other material to help heal the bone.
                                                 16

             An alternate embodiment of a fixation assembly is shown in FIGS. 16-18.
      These figures show a fastener 102 with a finned head 104. Specifically, the finned
      head 104 comprises a receiving bore 106 at its upper portion 108 and at least one
      set of extending fins 110 around the main portion 112 of the head 104. Fins 110 are
  5 shown as being square or trapezoidally-shaped with tapered edges, although they
      may be any other shape, such as rounded, oval, rectangular, curved, rhomboid,
     diamond-shaped, triangular or any other appropriate shape. The edges 111 of fins
      110 may taper inwardly, outwardly, or be about parallel with one another. Fins 110
     may be provided in a single row around head 104 or layered in multiple rows as
 10 shown. If layered in multiple rows, each individual fin 110 may be directly above
     another fin (so the top of the fastener 100 looks like that shown in FIG. 18).
     Alternatively, each individual fin 110 in a lower layer may be offset from a fin in a
     higher layer. The number of fins 24 In a set may also vary from about two or three
     up to any desired number that can fit on main portion 112 of head 104. As with the
 15 fins 24 of opening 18 described above, the fins 110 are preferably quite thin, the
    thickness varying depending upon the use of fastener and plate. For example, a
     larger fastener 102 for use with a larger plate (e.g., for use on a femur bone) will
    likely have larger and thicker fins 110 than a smaller fastener (e.g., for use on a
    smaller bone). In specific embodiments, the fins 110 are particularly thin so that they
20 can be moved up or down or compressed upon pressure. A non-limiting exemplary
    range of thicknesses for fins may be from about 0.5 mm to about 5 mm, although
    larger and smaller sizes are possible. In theory, the fins 110 are intended to fit
    between the threadform of plate. Fastener may also have a shaft 114 that is
    threaded or unthreaded, as described above with respect to fastener 80.
25           Fastener 102 may be used with any bone plate that has a threaded opening.
    Any of the examples shown in the figures are described above may be used with
    fastener 102. One option of a specific bone plate that can be used with fastener 110
    is shown in FIG. 19. This bone plate 120 has Acme threads 124 that have a more
    rectangular shape than the pointed, sharp threads that are typically used in bone
30 plates. As shown in FIG. 20, opening 122 has threads 124 that end at their edges
    126 in a rectangular shape. Providing a rectangular shape with a flatter edge 126
    allows a larger channel for the fins 110 to engage. In an even more specific
    embodiment, the threads 124 may be angled at about 15-20" off of the central axis
                                                 17

        MNR~erbm(OSX 1421l4
     HM~elem                ox.ili
130 of opening 122, and even more specifically, at about 184 off of the central. axis 130.
          An example of the method of use is similar to that describe above. As fastener 102 is
being inserted into bone plate 120 (although it should be understood that any traditional bone
plate may used; Acme threads are not a requirement), the fins I 10 are intended to engage
threads of the plate and, much like the fins of the bone plate described above, fins 110 are very
thin so that as the threads of plate start to grab the fins I10, the fins 110 may move up or down
as appropriate to engage the threads of plate and secure the fastener 102 in place, as shown in
FIG. 16. rn most cases, this movement of fins 110 is a permanent deformation. so that the fins
cannot flex back and allow the fastener to-work its way out.
          Figures 22 and 23 show perspective and cross-sectional views ofa fastener 203 such as
bone screw in a connection carrier 201, such as a bone plate, according to another embodiment
of the present invention. The connection carrier 201 containing at least one passage hole 202
and at least one bone screw 203 that is inserted into at least one passage hole 202. The passage
hole 202 has a central axis 220. At least one passage hole 202 in connection carrier 201
includes a seating surface 204. The bone screw 203 has a head 208 and a shaft 210 which
defines a bone screw central axis 216. The head 208 has a bore 212 for receiving a driver, The
bone screw 203 includes a seating surface 205 whose yield strength is lower than that of the
connection carrier 201 to allow deformation to occur, The seating surfaces 204, 205 permit a
mutual alignment at various angles 206, fixing the bone screw 203 at a certain angle to the
carrier 201. The passage hole 202 including a preformed thread, continuous ridge(s), or non
continuous ridge(s) 214 which are present at or adjacent to the seating surface 204.
          As exemplified in Figures 22 and 23, the seating surface 205 has a smooth and
contoured portion 218, and furthermore the smooth and contoured portion 218 is of a spherical
shape. Accordingly, the passage hole 202 has a portion that is spherically-shaped. The
preformed thread, continuous ridge(s), or non-continuous ridge(s) defonning a portion of the
screw head 208 or seat surface 205. When the bone screw 203 is inserted a thread-like
connection is formed between the bore screw 203 and the connection carrier 201. The
deformation being formed by rotating the bone screw 203 at a certain angle to the connection
carrier 201.
                                                    18

H         NonblDCOSL   t
                     rNa$2 i rI -11220
          ina preferred embodiment, the seating surface 205 could comprise the entire head 207
of the bone screw 203.
         In a preferred embodiment, the seating surface 205 could be made of polyethylene.
         While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it
should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not by way
of limitation. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art that various changes in
form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the
invention. Thus, the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described
exemplary embodiments.
         Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
         The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or knovn matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                                             19

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1.      A bone plate system for fixation of bone, the system comprising:
         a bone plate comprising a bone contacting surface, an tipper surface, and a first
 opening extending between the bone contacting surface and the upper surface. the first
 opening comprising a lower portion, a non-threaded upper portion, and a threaded portion
comprising threads and converging towards the lower portion, the lower portion comprising a
smallest diameter of the first opening; and
         a first fastener comprising a head at least partially comprising a spherical portion and a
first material,
         wherein, when the first fastener is inserted into the first opening, the threads of the first
opening form threads in the first material on the head of the first fastener to secure the first
fastener in place at one of a plurality of possible angles within the first opening.
2.       The system of claim 1, wherein the first material comprises polyethylene.
3.       The system of claim 1, wherein the bone plate comprises titanium, stainless steel,
cobalt chrome, plastic, polyetheretherketone, polyethylene, ultra high molecular weight
polyethylene, resorbable polylactic acid, polyglycolic acid, or combinations thereof.
4.      The system of claim 1, wherein the first opening comprises a generally spherical
shaped recessed portion.
5.      A bone plate system for fixation of bone, the system comprising:
        a bone plate comprising a bone contacting surface, an upper surface, and a first
opening comprising threads and extending between the bone contacting surface and the upper
surface; and
        a first fastener comprising a head at least partially encompassed by a fastener seating
surface, the fastener seating surface comprising a first material and a smooth and contoured
portion,
        wherein, when the first fastener is inserted into the first opening, the threads ofthe first
opening form threads in the fastener seating surface of the first fastener to secure the first
fastener in place at one of a plurality of possible angles within the first opening.
                                                  20

 6.      The system of claim 5, wherein the first material comprises polyethylene.
 7.      The system of claim 5, wherein the bone plate comprises titanium, stainless steel.
 cobalt chrome, plastic, polyetheretherketone, polyethylene, ultra high molecular weight
 polyethylene, resorbable polylactic acid, polyglycolic acid, or combinations thereof.
 8.      The system of claim 5, wherein the fastener seating surface at least partially comprises
 a spherical profile.
 9.      The system of claim 5, wherein the first opening comprises a generally spherical
 shaped recessed portion.
 10.     A method of reducing a fracture of a bone, the method comprising:
         reducing the fracture to bring bone fragments in close apposition;
         providing a bone plate comprising openings, wherein at least some of the openings
comprise threads;
         compressing the bone plate against the bone with a first fastener to hold the fracture
reduction; and
         inserting a second fastener into one of the openings in the bone plate comprising
threads,
         wherein the second fastener comprises a head at least partially encompassed by a
fastener seating surface, the fastener seating surface comprising a smooth and contoured
portion. and wherein, when the second fastener is inserted into the at least some of the
openings comprising threads, the threads of the opening form threads in the fastener seating
surface of the second fastener to secure the second fastener in place at one of a plurality of
possible angles relative to the bone plate.
 It.     The method of claim 10, wherein the fastener seating surface at least partially
comprises a spherical profile.
12.      A method of reducing a fracture of a bone, the method comprising:
         providing a bone plate comprising a bone-contacting surface, an upper surface, and a
first and second opening extending between the bone-contacting and upper surfaces, wherein
the first opening comprises threads;
                                             21

114tlitlalImIuhati4RPcnblt5LmS1L4is41?.4IVlV1 I I17
                                                  2
                providing a first fastener comprising a head at least partially encompassed by a fastener
seating surface, the fastener seating surface comprising a smooth and contoured portion;
                inserting the first fastener through the first opening and on a first side of the fracture.
wherein the threads of the first opening form threads in the fastener seating surface of the first
fastener to secure the first fastener in place at one of a plurality of possible angles within the
first opening; and
                inserting a second fastener through the second opening and into engagement with the
bone on a second side of the fracture opposite the first side to adjust positioning of the bone
and surrounding tissue.
13.             The method of claim 12, wherein the fastener seating surface at least partially
comprises a spherical profile.
                                                      22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           /15

                      14/15
<removed-date>
                                                  203
              216             212
                                    208
<removed-apn>
                                                 205
                                           218
                                          210
                    FIG. 22

                       15/15
<removed-date>           220
                                           216
              214
<removed-apn>
                               212          203
                                                  204
                               208
                                                         201
                                                   205
                                           202
                                     218
                      210
                    206
                    FIG. 23

