Abstract
A user terminal device and a controlling method thereof are provided. The user terminal device
includes a display configured to be divided into a first area and a second area which is larger than the
first area with reference to a folding line, a detector configured to detect a user interaction, and a
controller configured to, in response to a folding of the display with reference to the folding line being
detected through the detector, control the display to display a predetermined UI on an exposure area
which is exposed part of the second area.

                                                    1
                                            Description
                 Title of Invention: USER TERMINAL DEVICE AND
                         DISPLAYING METHOD THEREOF
[0001] The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application No.
        2015214697, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
        Technical Field
[0002] Apparatuses and methods consistent with exemplary embodiments relate to a user terminal
        device and a displaying method thereof, and more particularly, to a user terminal device
        where a display is folded asymmetrically with reference to a folding line so as to expose a
        part of the display and a displaying method thereof.
      Background Art
[0003] With the development of electronic technology, various types of user terminal devices have
        been developed and distributed. Recently, the size of such user terminal devices has been
        minimized while the functions of the devices have become diverse and thus, the demands for
        user terminal devices have been increasing continuously.
[0004] A user terminal device may provide various contents such as multimedia contents and
        application screens according to a user's request. A user may select a desired function using a
        button or a touch screen provided with a user terminal device. A user terminal device may
        execute a program selectively according to a user interaction and display the result of
        execution.
[0005] Meanwhile, as a user terminal device provides more diverse functions, there are various needs
        for a method of displaying contents or a user interface method. In other words, as the method
        of displaying contents has changed and the type and function of contents have been
        increasing, the existing interaction methods such as simply selecting a button or touching a
        screen may not be sufficient to perform various functions of a user terminal device.
[0006] Particularly, a user terminal device of which display can be folded with reference to a folding
        line has been developed in order to minimize the size of the user terminal device. When the
        display is folded symmetrically with reference to the folding line, however, the display is
        folded completely and a user may not use or watch the display.
[0006a]   A reference herein to a patent document or any other matter identified as prior art, is not to
        be taken as an admission that the document or other matter was known or that the information

                                                    la
       it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of any of the
       claims.
[0006b] Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are
       used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the
       presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence
       of one or more other features, integers, steps or components.
      Summary of Invention
[0006c] According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a user terminal device,
       comprising: a display configured to be divided into a first area and a second area which is
       larger than the first area with reference to a folding line; a detector configured to detect a user
       interaction; and a controller configured to, control the display to display at least one icon on
       an exposure area which is an exposed part of the second area while the display is folded, in
       response to detecting a touching of one of the at least one icon and an unfolding of the
       display, control the display to display to display a screen corresponding to the touched icon on
       the first area and second area.
[0006d] According to a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a displaying method
       of a user terminal device comprising a display configured to be divided into a first area and a
       second area which is larger than the first area with reference to a folding line, comprising:
       displaying at least one icon on an exposure area which is an exposed part of the second area
       while the display is folded, in response to detecting a touching of one of the at least one icon
       and an unfolding of the display, displaying a screen corresponding to the touched icon on the
       first area and second area.
      Disclosure of Invention
      Solution to Problem
[0006e] Aspects of one or more exemplary embodiments relate to a user terminal device that, when a
       display is folded asymmetrically with reference to a folding line, exposing a part of the
       display, provides various User Interface (UI) through the exposed area, and a display method
       thereof.
[0007] According to an aspect of an exemplary embodiment, there is provided a user terminal device
       which includes a display configured to be divided into a first area and

     a second area which is larger than the first area with reference to a folding line, a
     detector configured to detect a user interaction, and a controller configured to, in
     response to detecting a folding of the display along the folding line, control the display
     to display a predetermined UI on an exposure area which is an exposed part of the
     second area.
[8]    The controller, in response to detecting a folding of the display along the folding line
     while the user terminal device executes a specific application, may be configured to
     control the display to display a UI for controlling the specific application on the
     exposure area.
[9]    The controller, in response to detecting a predetermined user interaction while the
     display is folded, may be configured to control the display to display a UI for releasing
     a lock state of the user terminal device on the exposure area.
[10]   The controller, in response to detecting a predetermined user interaction while the
     display is folded, may be configured to control the display to display a UI for changing
     a setting of the user terminal device on the exposure area.
[11]   The device may further include a communicator configured to send and receive
     messages, and the controller, in response to receiving a message while the display is
     folded, may be configured to control the display to display a UI for informing that the
     message is received on the exposure area.
[12]   The controller, in response to detecting an unfolding of the display up to a prede
     termined angle while the UI for informing that a message is received on the exposure
     area, may be configured to control the display to display a message window for re
     sponding to the message.
[13]   The controller, in response to one or more icons being displayed on the exposure area
     while the display is folded, and detecting an unfolding of the display while one of the
     icons is touched, may be configured to control the display to display a screen corre
     sponding to the touched icon.
[14]   The controller, in response to the touched icon being a photo icon, may be configured
     to control the display to display a call screen on an upper area and a list for selecting a
     photo to be shared.
[15]   The controller, in response to receiving a message while a specific application is
     executed as the display is in a folded state, may be configured to control the display to
     display a UI for informing that the message is received on the exposure area, in
     response to detecting an unfolding of the display while the UI for informing that the
     message is received is touched, may be configured to control the display to display a
     message window for responding to the message, and in response to detecting an
     unfolding of the display while a UI for informing that the message is received is not
     touched, may be configured to control the display to display an execution screen of the

     specific application.
[16]   The controller, in response to a UI for releasing a lock state of the user terminal
     device being displayed on the exposure area as the display is in a folded state. and
     detecting an unfolding of the display after a lock release command is input through the
     UI for releasing the lock state of the user terminal device, may be configured to control
     the display to display a home screen, and in response to detecting an unfolding of the
     display while the lock release command is not input through a UI for releasing the lock
     state of the user terminal device, may be configured to control the display to display a
     UI for releasing the lock state of the user terminal device on full screen.
[17]   The controller, in response to a telephone call request being received while the
     display is folded, may be configured to control the display to display a UI for
     informing that a telephone call request is received on the exposure area, in response to
     the display being unfolded to a first angle range, may be configured to control the
     display to display at least one icon for controlling a function of the telephone call, and
     in response to the display being unfolded to a second angle range that is more than the
     first angle range, may be configured to accept the telephone call request and control
     the display to display a telephone call screen.
[18]   The controller, in response to a telephone call request being received while a specific
     application is executed as the display is in a folded state, may be configured to control
     the display to display a UI for informing that the telephone call request is received on
     the exposure area, in response to detecting an unfolding of the display, may be
     configured to accept the telephone call request and control the display to display a
     telephone call screen, and in response to terminating the telephone call, may be
     configured to control the display to display an execution screen of the specific ap
     plication.
[19]   The controller, in response to detecting a folding of the display to a first angle while
     an execution screen of a specific application is displayed on the display, may be
     configured to control the display to display at least part of an execution screen of the
     specific application on at least part of the second area, and in response to detecting a
     folding of the display such that the first area of the display comes in contact with a
     second area, may be configured to control the display to display a brief information
     providing screen of the specific application on the exposure area.
[20]   According to an aspect of another exemplary embodiment, there is provided a
     displaying method of a user terminal device which includes displaying an image on a
     display which is divided into a first area and a second area that is larger than the first
     area with reference to a folding line and, in response to a detecting a folding of the
     display with reference to the folding line, displaying a predetermined UI on an
     exposure area which is an exposed part of the second area.

[21]   The displaying may include, in response to detecting a folding of the display with
     reference to a folding line while the user terminal device executes a specific ap
     plication, displaying a UI for controlling the specific application on the exposure area.
[22]   The method may include, in response to detecting a predetermined user interaction
     while the display is folded, displaying a UI for releasing a lock state of the user
     terminal device on the exposure area.
[23]   The method may include, in response to detecting a predetermined user interaction
     while the display is folded, displaying a UI for changing a setting of the user terminal
     device on the exposure area.
[24]   The method may include, in response to receiving a message while the display is
     folded, displaying a UI for informing that the message is received on the exposure
     area.
[25]   The method may include, in response to the UI for informing that the message is
     received being displayed on the exposure area while the display is folded, and
     detecting an unfolding of the display up to a predetermined angle while the UI for
     informing that the message is received on the exposure area, displaying a message
     window for responding to the message.
[26]   The displaying may include displaying one or more icons on the exposure area, and
     in response to the one or more icons being displayed on the exposure area while the
     display is folded, and detecting an unfolding of the display while one of the plurality of
     icons is touched, displaying a screen coiTesponding to the touched icon.
[27]   The method may include, in response to a message being received while a specific
     application is executed as the display is in a folding state, displaying a UI for
     informing that the message is received on the exposure area, in response to detecting
     an unfolding of the display while the UI for informing that the message is received is
     touched, displaying a message window for responding to the message, and in response
     to detecting an unfolding of the display while the UI for informing that the message is
     received is not touched, displaying an execution screen of the specific application.
[28]   The displaying may include displaying a UI for releasing a lock state of the user
     terminal device on the exposure area while the display is folded, and in response to a
     UI for releasing a lock state of the user terminal device being displayed on the
     exposure area while the display is folded, and detecting an unfolding of the display
     after a lock release command is input through the UI for releasing the lock state of the
     user terminal device, displaying a home screen, and in response to detecting an
     unfolding of the display while a lock release command is not input through the UI for
     releasing the lock state of the user terminal device, displaying a UI for releasing the
     lock state of the user terminal device on full screen.
[29]   The displaying may include, in response to a telephone call request being received

     while the display is folded, displaying a UI for informing that a telephone call request
     is received on the exposure area, in response to the display being unfolded to a first
     angle range, displaying at least one icon for controlling a function of the telephone call,
     and in response to the display being unfolded to a second angle range that is more than
     the first angle range, accepting the telephone call request and displaying a telephone
     call screen.
[30]   The method may include, in response to a telephone call request being received f
     while a specific application is executed as the display is in a folding state, displaying a
     UI for informing that the telephone call request is received on the exposure area, in
     response to detecting an unfolding of the display, accepting the telephone call request
     and displaying a telephone call screen, and in response to the telephone call being
     terminated, displaying an execution screen of the specific application.
[31]   The method may include, in response to detecting a folding of the display to a first
     angle while an execution screen of a specific application is displayed on the display,
     displaying part of an execution screen of the specific application on at least part of the
     second area, and in response to detecting a folding of the display such that the first area
     of the display comes in contact with the second area, displaying a brief information
     providing screen of the specific application on the exposure area.
[32]   According to another aspect of an exemplary embodiment, there is provided a
     foldable display device including a display comprising a first area and a second area
     that is greater than the first area, wherein the display is configured to fold along an axis
     dividing the first area and the second area; a detector comprising: a touch detector
     configured to detect a user input; and a folding detector configured to detect a folding
     angle of the display; and a controller configured to control the display to display a user
     interface on an exposure area of the second area.
[33]   The controller may be configured to control the display to display a different number
     of guidance messages according to the folding angle of the display.
[34]   The controller, in response to the folding angle of the display being within a first
     angle range, may be configured to control the display to display two guidance
     messages; and in response to the hinge angle of the display being within a second
     angle range, which is greater than the first angle range, may be configured to control
     the display to display three guidance messages.
     Advantageous Effects of Invention
[35]   As described above, according to one or more exemplary embodiments, a user may
     perform various functions of a user terminal device through a UI displayed on the
     exposure area even when the display is folded, and may be provided with various
     pieces of information.

     Brief Description of Drawings
[36]   The above and/or other aspects of exemplary embodiments will be more apparent
     with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[37]   FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating configuration of a user terminal device
     according to an exemplary embodiment;
[38]   FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating a detailed configuration of a user terminal
     device according to an exemplary embodiment;
[39]   FIGS. 3A to 3E are views illustrating a user terminal device with a rectangular
     display panel according to an exemplary embodiment;
[40]   FIG. 4 is a view illustrating a configuration of software stored in a storage according
     to an exemplary embodiment;
[41]   FIGS. 5A to 7B are views illustrating a UI displayed on an exposure area according
     to various exemplary embodiments;
[42]   FIGS. 8A to 16B are views illustrating an exemplary embodiment where a user
     terminal device performs various functions according to a folding interaction and an
     unfolding interaction according to various exemplary embodiments;
[43]   FIGS. 17A to 23B are views illustrating an exemplary embodiment where a user
     terminal device maintains a function when a folding interaction and an unfolding in
     teraction are detected according to various exemplary embodiments;
[44]   FIG. 24 is a flowchart illustrating a display method of a user terminal device
     according to an exemplary embodiment;
[45]   FIGS. 25A to 27B are views illustrating an exemplary embodiment where a user
     terminal device performs various functions according to a folding interaction and an
     unfolding interaction; and
[46]   FIGS. 28A to 31B are views illustrating an exemplary embodiment where a cover
     covers up an exposure area according to another exemplary embodiment.
     Best Mode for Carrying out the Invention
[47]   One or more exemplary embodiments may vary and may be provided in different
     types of exemplary embodiments. Specific exemplary embodiments will be described
     with reference to accompanying drawings and detailed explanation. However, this does
     not necessarily limit the scope of the exemplary embodiments to a specific em
     bodiment form. Instead, modifications, equivalents and replacements included in the
     disclosed concept and technical scope of this specification may be employed. While
     describing exemplary embodiments, if a specific description regarding a known
     technology might obscure the gist of an inventive concept, the specific description may
     be omitted.
[48]   In the present disclosure, relational terms such as first and second, and the like, may

     be used to distinguish one entity from another entity, without necessarily implying any
     actual relationship or order between such entities.
[49]    The terms used in the following description are provided to explain a specific
     exemplary embodiment and are not intended to limit the scope of rights. A singular
     term includes a plural form unless it is expressly says otherwise. The terms "include",
     "comprise", "is configured to," etc., of the description are used to indicate that there
     are features, numbers, steps, operations, elements, parts or combination thereof, and
     they should not exclude the possibilities of combination or addition of one or more
     features, numbers, steps, operations, elements, parts or combination thereof.
[50]    In an exemplary embodiment, 'a module' or 'a unit' performs at least one function or
     operation, and may be realized as hardware, software, or a combination thereof. In
     addition, a plurality of 'modules' or a plurality of 'units' may be integrated into at least
     one module and may be realized as at least one processor except for 'modules' or
      'units' that should be realized in a specific hardware.
[51]    An exemplary embodiment will now be described in detail with accompanying
     drawings. FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating configuration of a user terminal device
      100 according to an exemplary embodiment. As illustrated in FIG. 1, the user terminal
     device 100 includes a display 110, a detector 120, and a controller 130. The user
     terminal device 100 may be realized as various types of devices such as a TV, monitor,
     PC, laptop PC, mobile phone, tablet PC, touchscreen, PDA, MP3 player, kiosk,
     electronic album, table display device, LCD display, LED display, OLED display,
     camera, watch, wearable device, etc. If a user terminal device is realized as portable
     device such as mobile phone, tablet PC, PDA, MP3 player, laptop PC, watch, wearable
     device, etc., the user terminal device may be referred to a mobile device. Throughout
     this specification, for convenience and not for any limiting purposes, it may be referred
     to as a user terminal device.
[52]    The display 110 displays various image data and Uls. In particular, the display 110
     may be realized as a touch screen as it is combined with a touch detector. In addition,
     the display 110 may include a folding line so that the display 110 may be folded.
[53]    In particular, the display 110 consists of a first area and a second area which is larger
     than the first area with reference to the folding line. If the display is folded such that
     the first area comes in touch with the second area with reference to the folding line, the
     display 110 may display on an exposure area of the second area, the area being
     exposed while the display 110 is folded, at least one of a UI including information
     regarding the user terminal device 100 and a UI for controlling the user terminal device
      100.
[54]    The detector 120 detects a user interaction. In particular, the detector 120 may
     include a touch detector which detects a user's touch interaction. In addition, the

     detector 120 may include a folding detector which detects a folding interaction where
     the display 110 is folded with reference to the folding line and an unfolding interaction
     where the display 110 is unfolded with reference to the folding line.
[55]   The controller 130 controls overall operations of the user terminal device 100. In
     particular, if the display is folded with reference to the folding line, the controller 130
     may control the display 110 to display a predetermined UI on an exposure area of the
     second area. In this case, the predetermined UI may include at least one of a UI rep
     resenting state information of the user terminal device 100 and a UI for controlling the
     user terminal device 100. In addition, the exposure area represents an area of the
     second area, which is exposed to the outside when the first area completely comes into
     contact with the second area.
[56]   In particular, if a folding interaction of folding the display 110 with reference to the
     folding line is detected through the detector 120 while the user terminal device 100
     executes a specific application, the controller 130 may control the display 110 to
     display a UI for controlling the specific application in the exposure area of the second
     area. For example, if a folding interaction of folding the display 110 with reference to
     the folding line is detected through the detector while the user terminal device 100
     executes a music application, the controller 130 may control the display 110 to display
     a UI for controlling reproduction of music on the exposed area.
[57]   In addition, if a predetermined user interaction occurs (for example, a touch in
     teraction of touching the exposed area) while the display 110 is folded, the controller
      130 may control the display 110 to display a UI for releasing a lock state of the user
     terminal device 100 on the exposure area of the second area.
[58]   If a predetermined user interaction occurs (for example, a touch interaction of
     touching the exposed area) while the display 110 is folded, the controller 130 may
     control the display 110 to display a UI for changing the setting of the user terminal
     device on the exposed area. For example, if a touch interaction of touching the
     exposure area is detected while the display 110 is folded, the controller 130 may
     control the display 110 to display a UI for changing an audio, video or other setting of
     the user terminal device on the exposed area.
[59]   In addition, if a message is received from outside of the device while the display 110
     is folded, the controller 130 may control the display 110 to display a UI for informing
     that the message is received on the exposed area. In this case, the UI displayed on the
     exposure area may include information regarding a sender and the message.
[60]   If the UI informing that a message is received is displayed on the exposure area while
     the display 110 is folded and an unfolding interaction of unfolding the display to a pre
     determined angle is detected while the UI is touched, the controller 130 may control
     the display 110 to display a message window for responding to the received message.

[611   However, the device is not limited to a using a predetermined angle. It may be a
     range of angles. It may also be an angle or a range of angles that may be set by a user.
[62]   In addition, the controller 130 may control the display 110 to display a plurality of
     icons on the exposure area while the display 110 is folded. If one of the plurality of
     icons is touched through the detector 120 while the plurality of icons are displayed on
     the exposure area while the display 110 is folded and an unfolding interaction of
     unfolding the display 110 is detected through the detector 120 while one of the
     plurality of icons is touched, the controller 130 may control the display 110 to display
     a screen corresponding to the touched icon. For example, if an unfolding interaction of
     unfolding the display 110 is detected while a message icon from among the plurality of
     icons is touched, the controller 130 may control the display 110 to display a message
     window corresponding to the message icon. Of course, the device is not limited to a
     message icon. It could be any number of icons, e.g., a music icon, a telephone icon, a
     document icon, etc.
[63]   In addition, if a message is received from outside while the user terminal device
     executes a specific application in a folding state, the controller 130 may control the
     display 110 to display a UI informing that the message is received on the exposed area.
     If an unfolding interaction of unfolding the display 110 is detected through the detector
      120 while the UI is touched, the controller 130 may control the display 110 to display a
     message window for responding to the message. If an unfolding action of unfolding the
     display is detected through the detector 120 while the UI is not touched, the controller
      130 may control the display 110 to display an execution screen for the specific ap
     plication.
[64]   If a UI for releasing a lock state of the user terminal device 100 is displayed on the
     exposure area while the display 110 is folded, a lock release command is input through
     the UI and then, an unfolding interaction of unfolding the display 110 is detected
     through the detector 120, the controller 130 may control the display 110 to display a
     home screen. However, if a lock release command is not input through the UI, and an
     unfolding interaction of unfolding the display 110 is detected through the detector 120,
     the controller 130 may control the display 110 to display the UI for releasing the lock
     state of the user terminal device 100 on full screen.
[65]   In addition, if a call request is received from outside while the display 110 is folded,
     the controller 130 may control the display 110 to display a UI on the exposed area for
     informing that a call request is received from outside. If an unfolding interaction of
     unfolding the display to a first angle range is detected, the controller 130 may control
     the display 110 to display at least one icon for controlling a telephone call function. If
     an unfolding interaction of unfolding the display to a second angle that is greater than
     the first angle scope is detected, the controller 130 may accept the call request and

     control the display 110 to display a telephone call screen.
[66]   If a call request is received from outside while the display executes a specific ap
     plication as it is being folded, the controller 130 may control the display 110 to display
     a UI for informing that a call request is received on the exposed area. If an unfolding
     interaction of unfolding the display 110 is detected through the detector 120, the
     controller 130 may accept the call request and control the display 110 to display a
     telephone call screen. When a telephone call is completed, the controller 130 may
     control the display 110 to display the execution screen of the specific application
     again.
[67]   If a first folding interaction of folding the display to the first angle is detected while
     the display 110 displays the execution screen of a specific application, the controller
      130 may control the display 110 to display part of the execution screen of the specific
     application on at least part of the second area. If a second folding interaction of folding
     the display 110 such that the first area and the second area of the display 110 come in
     contact with each other is detected, the controller 130 may control the display 110 to
     display a brief information providing screen of the specific application on the exposed
     area.
[68]   In the above-described one or more exemplary embodiments, a user may perform
     various functions of a user terminal device through a UI displayed on the exposure area
     even when the display 110 is in a folding state and thus, the user may be provided with
     various information and options for interaction.
[69]   One or more exemplary embodiments will be described in greater detail with
     reference to FIGS. 2 to 23B. FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating configuration of a
     user terminal device 200 in detail according to an exemplary embodiment. As il
     lustrated in FIG. 2, the user terminal device includes an image receiver 210, an image
     processor 220, a display 230, a communicator 240, a storage 250, an audio processor
     260, a speaker 270, a detector 280, and a controller 290.
[70]   Meanwhile, FIG. 2 illustrates various components comprehensively, assuming that
     the user terminal device 200 is an apparatus having various functions such as contents
     providing function, display function, etc. Accordingly, depending on one or more
     exemplary embodiments, a part of the components illustrated in FIG. 2 may be omitted
     or changed, or other components may be further added.
[71]   The image receiver 210 receives image data through various sources. For example,
     the image receiver 210 may receive broadcasting data from an external broadcasting
     station, VOD data in real time from an external server, or image data from an external
     apparatus.
[721   The image processor 220 processes image data received from the image receiver 210.
     The image processor 220 may perform various image processing with respect to image

     data, such as decoding, scaling, noise filtering, frame rate conversion, resolution
     conversion, etc.
[73]   The display 230 displays at least one of a video frame which is generated as the
     image processor 220 processes image data received from the image receiver 220 and
     various screens generated by a graphic processor 293.
[74]   In particular, as illustrated in FIG. 3A, the display 230 may consist of a first area 320
     and a second area 330 which is larger than the first area 320 with reference to a folding
     line 310. As illustrated in FIG. 3B, if the display 230 is folded with reference to the
     folding line 310, the display 230 may include an exposure area 340 which is the
     exposed part of the second area 330. Meanwhile, FIG. 3C is a view illustrating a cover
     which is on the rear side of the user terminal device 200 when the user terminal device
     200 is folded.
[75]   Meanwhile, in the above-described exemplary embodiment, the length of the folding
     line 310 is in parallel with a short side, but this is only an example. As illustrated in
     FIG. 3D, the length of the folding line 310 may be in parallel with a long side. In this
     case, the display 230 may consist of a first area 350 and a second area 360 with
     reference to the folding line 310. As illustrated in FIG. 3E, if the display 230 is folded
     with reference to the folding line 310, the display 230 may include an exposure area
     370 of the second area 360, which is exposed to outside.
[76]   Meanwhile, in the above-exemplary embodiment, the folding line 310 may be a line
     which is generated by a physical hinge. In addition, if the display 230 is a flexible
     display, the folding line 310 may be a line which can be folded by a user.
[77]   The communicator 240 performs communication with various types of external ap
     paratuses according to various types of communication methods. The communicator
     240 may include a WiFi chip 241, a Bluetooth chip 242, a wireless communication
     chip 243, and a Near Field Communication (NFC) chip 244. The controller 290
     performs communication with various external apparatuses using the communicator
     240.
[78]   In particular, the WiFi chip 241 and the Bluetooth chip 242 perform communication
     according to a WiFi method and a Bluetooth method, respectively. In the case of the
     WiFi chip 241 or the Bluetooth chip 242, various connection information such as SSID
     and a session key may be transmitted/received first for communication connection and
     then, various information may be transmitted/received. The wireless communication
     chip 243 represents a chip which performs communication according to various com
     munication standards such as IEEE, Zigbee, 3rd Generation (3G), 3rd Generation
     Partnership Project (3GPP), Long Term Evolution (LTE) and so on. The NFC chip 244
     represents a chip which operates according to an NFC method which uses 13.56MHz
     band among various RF-ID frequency bands such as 135kHz, 13.56MHz, 433MHz,

     860-960MHz, 2.45GHz, and so on.
[79]   The storage 250 may store various programs and data necessary to operate the user
     terminal device 200. Specifically, the storage 250 may store programs and data to
     configure various screens to be displayed on a main area and a sub area. FIG. 4 is a
     view provided to explain the structure of software stored in the user terminal device
     200. According to FIG. 4, the storage 250 may store an Operating System (OS) 410, a
     kernel 420, middleware 430, an application 440, etc.
[80]   The OS 410 controls and manages overall operations of hardware. In other words,
     the OS 410 manages hardware and is responsible for basic functions such as memory
     and security.
[81]   The kernel 420 serves as a path transmitting various signals detected at the display
     230, such as a touch signal, to the middleware 430.
[82]   The middleware 430 includes various software modules for controlling the operation
     of the user terminal device 200. According to FIG. 4, the middleware 430 includes an
     X 11 module 430-1, an APP manager 430-2, a connection manager 430-3, a security
     module 430-4, a system manager 430-5, a multimedia framework 430-6,. a UI
     framework 430-7, a window manager 430-8, and a writing recognition module 430-9.
[83]   The X 11 module 430-1 receives various event signals from various hardware
     provided in the user terminal device 200. Herein, the event may vary, ranging from an
     event of setting of a system alarm, an event of executing or terminating a specific
     program, etc.
[84]   The APP manager 430-2 manages the execution state of various applications 440
     which are installed in the storage 250. When an application execution event is detected
     from the X 11 module 430-1, the APP manager 430-2 calls and executes an application
     corresponding to the event.
[85]   The connection manager 430-3 supports wired or wireless network connection. The
     connection manager 430-3 may include various detailed modules such as a DNET
     module, a UPnP module, etc.
[86]   The security module 430-4 supports certification, permission, secure storage, etc.
     with respect to hardware.
[87]   The system manager 430-5 monitors the state of each element of the user terminal
     device 200, and provides the monitoring result to other modules. For example, if there
     is not enough battery left, an error occurs, or connection is cut off, the system manager
     430-5 may provide the monitoring result to a main UI framework 430-7 or a sub UI
     framework 430-9 and output an alarm message or an alarm sound.
[88]   The multimedia framework 430-6 may be stored in the user terminal device 200, or
     may reproduce multimedia contents provided from an external source. The multimedia
     framework 430-6 may include a player module, a camcorder module, a sound

     processing module, etc. Accordingly, the multimedia framework 430-6 may reproduce
     various multimedia contents, and generate and reproduce screens and sounds.
[89]   The main UI framework 430-7 provides various Uls to be displayed on a main area
     of the display 230, and the sub UI framework 430-9 provides various Uls to be
     displayed on a sub area. The main Ul framework 430-7 and the sub UI framework
     430-9 may include an image composite module to configure various objects, a co
     ordinates composite module to calculate a coordinates where an object is to be
     displayed, a rendering module to render the configured object on the calculated co
     ordinates, a 2D/3D UI toolkit to provide a tool for configuring a UI in 2D or 3D form,
     etc. The main UI framework 430-7 and the sub UI framework 430-9 may include an
     image composite module to configure various objects, a coordinates composite module
     to calculate a coordinates where an object is to be displayed, a rendering module to
     render the configured object on the calculated coordinates, a 2D/3D UI toolkit to
     provide a tool for configuring a UI in 2D or 3D form, etc.
[90]   The window manager 430-8 may detect a touch event using a user's body part or pen
     or other input events. When such an event is detected, the window manager 430-8
     transmits an event signal to the main UI framework 430-7 or the sub Ul framework
     430-9 so that an operation corresponding to the event is performed.
[91]   In addition, if a user touches and drags a screen, various program modules such as a
     writing module for drawing a line according to a drag trace and an angle calculation
     module for calculating a pitch angle, a roll angle, a yaw angle, etc. based on a sensor
     value sensed by a movement detector 282 may be stored.
[92]   The application module 440 includes applications 440-1-440-n for supporting
     various functions. For example, program modules for providing various services, such
     as a navigation program module, a game module, an electronic book module, a
     calendar module, an alarm management module, a music module, an electronic
     banking module, a stock module, a calculator module, an electronic mail module, a
     spreadsheet module, a word processor module, etc. may be included, Such applications
     may be set as default or may be set temporarily by a user when necessary. If an object
     is selected, the main CPU 294 may execute an application corresponding to the
     selected object using the application module 440.
[93]   The software structure displayed in FIG. 4 is only an example and thus, an exemplary
     embodiment is not necessarily limited thereto. Thus, part of the structure may be
     omitted or changed, or new structure may be added, if necessary. For example, the
     storage 250 may additionally provide various programs such as a sensing module for
     analyzing signals sensed by various sensors, a messaging module including a
     messenger program, a Short Message Service (SMS) & Multimedia Message Service
     (MMS) program, an e-mail program, etc., a call info aggregator program module, a

      VoIP module, a web browser module, etc.
[94]    Referring back to FIG. 2, the audio processor 260 processes audio data of image
      contents. The audio processor 260 may perform various processing such as decoding,
      amplification, noise filtering, compression, equalization, noise cancellation, echo or
      reverb removal or addition, etc., with respect to audio data. The audio data processed
      by the audio processor 260 may be output to the audio output unit 270 (e.g., audio
      outputter).
[95]    The audio output unit 270 outputs not only various audio data which is processed in
      many ways such as decoding, amplification, and noise filtering by the audio processor
      260 but also various alarm sounds or voice messages. In particular, the audio output
      unit 270 may be realized as a speaker, but this is only an example. The audio output
      unit 270 may be realized as an output terminal which may output audio data.
[96]    The detector 280 detects various user interactions. In particular, the detector 280 may
      include a touch detector 281, a movement detector 282, and a folding detector 283 as
      illustrated in FIG. 2.
[97]    Specifically, the touch detector 281 may detect a user's touch interaction using a
      touch panel attached to the rear side of a display panel. The movement detector 282
      may detect a movement (for example, a rotation movement, a vertical movement, or a
      horizontal movement, etc.) of the user terminal device 100 using at least one of an ac
      celerator sensor, a geomagnetic sensor, and a gyro sensor. The folding detector 283
      may detect at least one of whether the user terminal device 200 is folded with reference
      to the folding line 310 and the angle at which the terminal device 200 is folded using a
      bending sensor (for example, a light sensor, a fiber optic sensor, a conductive ink
      based sensor, a conductive fabric sensor, etc.).
[98]    Meanwhile, the touch detector 281 might activate only a touch sensor disposed on
      the exposure area while the display 230 is folded, and inactivate a touch sensor
      disposed on the other areas.
[99]    The controller 290 controls overall operations of the user terminal device 200 using
      various programs stored in the storage 250.
[100]   As illustrated in FIG. 2, the controller 290 includes a RAM 291, a ROM 292, a
      graphic processor 293, a main CPU 294, a first to an nth interface 295-1-295-n, and a
      bus 296. In this case, the RAM 291, the ROM 292, the graphic processor 293, the main
      CPU 294, the first to the nth interface 295-1-295-n, etc. may be interconnected
      through the bus 296.
[101]   The ROM 292 stores a set of commands for system booting. If a turn-on command is
      input and thus, power is supplied, the main CPU 294 copies O/S stored in the storage
      250 in the RAM 291 according to a command stored in the ROM 292, and boots a
      system by executing the O/S. When the booting is completed, the main CPU 294

      copies various application programs stored in the storage 250 in the RAM 291, and
      executes the application programs copied in the RAM 291 to perform various op
      erations.
[102]   The graphic processor 293 generates a screen including various objects such as an
      icon, an image, a text, etc. using a computing unit (e.g., computer) and a rendering unit
      (e.g., renderer). The computing unit computes property values such as coordinates,
      shape, size, and color of each object to be displayed according to the layout of the
      screen using a control command received from the detector 280. The rendering unit
      generates a screen with various layouts including objects based on the property values
      computed by the computing unit. The screen generated by the rendering unit is
      displayed in a display area of the display 230.
[103]   The main CPU 294 accesses the storage 250, and performs booting using the O/S
      stored in the storage 250. The main CPU 294 performs various operations using
      various programs, contents, data, etc. stored in the storage 250.
[104]   The first to the nth interface 295-1-295-n are connected to the above-described
      various elements. One of the above interface may be a network interface which is
      connected to an external apparatus via network.
[105]   In particular, the controller 290 may provide various functions using an exposure
      area which is exposed to the outside when the display 110 is folded.
[106]   <A UI provided on the exposure area>
[107]   If the display 230 is folded with reference to the folding line 310 such that the first
      area 320 and the second area 330 come in contact with each other, the controller 290
      may control the display 230 to display a predetermined Ul on the exposure area 340 of
      the second area 320, which is exposed to the outside. In this case, the predetermined UI
      may include at least one of a UI including the state information of the user terminal
      device 200 and a UI for controlling the user terminal device 200.
[108]   In an exemplary embodiment, if a folding interaction of folding the display 230 with
      reference to the folding line 310 such that the first area 320 and the second area 330
      come in contact with each other is detected, the controller 290 may control the display
      230 to display a UI 510 providing a memo function on the exposure area as illustrated
      in FIG. 5A. In this case, if a user input, e.g., a finger, pen, or stylus, is detected through
      the Ul 510 which provides a memo function, the controller 290 may control the display
      230 to display an image according to the user input.
[109]   In addition, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI for con
      trolling a specific application on the exposure area. Specifically, if a folding interaction
      of folding the display 230 with reference to the folding line 310 such that the first area
      320 and the second area 330 come in contact with each other is detected while a
      specific application is executed, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to

      display a UI for controlling the specific application on the exposure area. For example,
      if a folding interaction of folding the display 230 with reference to the folding line 310
      such that the first area 320 and the second area 330 come in contact with each other is
      detected while a music application is executed, the controller 290 may control the
      display 230 to display a UI 520 controlling the music application on the exposure area
      as illustrated in FIG. 5B. In this case, the UI 520 for controlling a music application
      may include information regarding currently-played music, a play/stop icon, a skip
      icon, a rewind icon, a next song, a past song, thumbs up, thumbs down, etc.
[110]   In addition, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI including a
      hot key icon for checking the current state of the user terminal device 200 on the
      exposure area. For example, if a predetermined user interaction (for example, an in
      teraction of touching or tapping the exposure area twice in a row) is detected while the
      display 230 is folded, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI
      530 including a hot key icon for checking the current state of the user terminal device
      200 on the exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 5C. In this case, the hot key icon for
      checking the current state of the user terminal device 200 may include a hot key icon
      for checking a battery state, a hot key icon for checking a network state, a hot key icon
      for checking display brightness setting, etc.
[111]   In addition, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI informing
      that a message or data is received from the outside on the exposure area. For example,
      if an SNS message or SMS message is received from the outside through the com
      municator 240 while the display 230 is folded, the controller 290 may control the
      display 230 to display a Ul 540 informing that the SNS message or SMS message is
      received on the exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 5D. In this case, the UI 540
      informing that an SNS message or SMS message is received may include at least one
      of information regarding a sender and information regarding the SNS message or SMS
      message.
[112]   Further, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display various types of
      Uls for releasing a lock state of the user terminal device 200 on the exposure area.
[113]    Specifically, as illustrated in FIG. 6A, the controller 290 may control the display 230
      to display a UI 610 for inputting a pin number to release the lock state of the user
      terminal device 200 on the exposure area. In this case, the UI 610 for inputting a pin
      number may change the pin number by a touch interaction of swiping up and down. If
      a predetermined pin number is input on the UI 610 displayed on the exposure area, the
      controller 290 may release the lock state of the user terminal device 200. Additionally,
      the user may set the pin number through user input.
[114]   In addition, as illustrated in FIG. 6B, the controller 290 may control the display 230
      to display a UI 620 including a plurality of dots on a corner of the exposure area to

      release the lock state of the user terminal device 200 on the exposure area. In this case,
      if a touch interaction of connecting dots in a predetermined pattern is detected on the
      UI 620, the controller 290 may release the lock state of the user terminal device 200.
      Additionally, the user may set the pattern through user input.
[115]    As illustrated in FIG. 6C, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a
      UI 630 in the form of a keyboard, i.e., piano to release the lock state of the user
      terminal device 200 on the exposure area. In this case, if a touch interaction of
      touching the keyboard, i.e., piano in a predetermined rhythm is detected on the UI 630,
      the controller may release the lock state of the user terminal device 200.
[116]    In addition, as illustrated in FIG. 6D, the controller 290 may control the display 230
      to display a UI 640 including a home icon to release the lock state of the user terminal
      device on the exposure area. In this case, if a touch interaction of pinching out with
      reference to the home icon included in the UI 640 is detected, the controller 290 may
      release the lock state of the user terminal device 200.
[117]    The controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI for changing the
      setting of the user terminal device 200 on the exposure area.
[118]    Specifically, as illustrated in FIG. 7A, the controller 290 may control the display 230
      to display a UI 710 in the form of an arc for adjusting the volume of the user terminal
      device 200. Meanwhile, in the above exemplary embodiment, the UI displayed on the
      exposure area adjusts the volume, but this is only an example. A UI for adjusting
      another setting of the user terminal device 200 (for example, display brightness, etc.)
      may be displayed.
[119]    In addition, as illustrated in FIG. 7B, if a touch interaction of dragging one of a
      plurality of vertexes included in the exposure area in a diagonal direction is detected,
      the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI 720 for turning off the
      power of the user terminal device 200 at the corner area corresponding to the vertex
      where the touch interaction is detected.
[120]    <A folding interaction and an unfolding interaction>
[121]    If a plurality of icons are displayed on the exposure area while the display 230 is
      folded, and an unfolding interaction of unfolding the display 230 while one of the
      plurality of icons is touched, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display
      a screen corresponding to the touched icon on full screen.
[122]    Specifically, as illustrated in FIG. 8A, the display 230 displays the first to the fourth
      icons 810 to 840 while the display 230 is folded. If an unfolding interaction of
      unfolding the display 230 is detected while the fourth icon 840 out of the first to the
      fourth icon 810 to 840 is touched, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to
      display a message window 850 corresponding to the fourth icon 840 on full screen as
      illustrated in FIG. 8B.

[123]   Meanwhile, in the above exemplary embodiment, an unfolding interaction is detected
      while the fourth icon 840 is touched, but this is only an example. If an unfolding in
      teraction is detected while another icon is touched, a screen corresponding to the other
      touched icon may be displayed on the full screen of the display 230. For example, if an
      unfolding interaction is detected while the first icon 810 is touched, the controller 290
      may control the display 230 to display an execution screen of a call application corre
      sponding to the first icon 810 (for example, a recent call list screen, an address book
      screen, a call sending screen, etc.) on full screen. In addition, if an unfolding in
      teraction is detected while the second icon 820 is touched, the controller 290 may
      control the display 230 to display a web browser screen corresponding to the second
      icon 820 on full screen. If an unfolding interaction is detected while the third icon 830
      is touched, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display an execution
      screen of a music application corresponding to the third icon 830 (for example, a music
      play screen, a music list screen, etc.) on full screen.
[124]   In addition, if the exposure area is touched while the display 230 is folded and then,
      an unfolding interaction of unfolding a hinge angle of the display 230 as much as a
      predetermined angle is detected, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to
      display a screen for executing a specific function.
[125]   Specifically, if a call request is received while the display 230 is folded, the
      controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI 910 informing that a call
      request is received on the exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 9A. If an unfolding in
      teraction of unfolding a hinge angle of the display 230 as much as a predetermined
      angle (for example, 70' to 120') is detected while the UI 910 informing that a call
      request is received is touched, the controller 290 may accept the call request, execute a
      speaker phone function, and control the display 230 to display an execution screen 920
      including various icons as illustrated in FIG. 9B.
[126]   Specifically, if a message is received from outside while news information 1010 is
      displayed at the same as the display 230 is folded, the controller 290 may control the
      display 230 to display a UI 1020 informing that the message is received along with the
      news information 1010 on the exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 10A. If an unfolding
      interaction of unfolding a hinge angle of the display 230 as much as a predetermined
      angle (for example, 70' to 1200) is detected while the UI 1020 informing that a
      message is received is touched, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to
      display a message window 1030 for writing a reply to the received message as il
      lustrated in FIG. 10B.
[127]   In addition, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display different
      screens when the exposure area is touched and then, an unfolding interaction is
      detected and when an unfolding interaction is detected.

[128]   Specifically, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI 1110 cor
      responding to a music application on the exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 11 A.
[129]   If a message is received from outside while the UI 1110 corresponding to a music ap
      plication is displayed on the exposure area, the controller 290 may control the display
      230 to display a Ul 1120 informing that the message is received along with the music
      application UI 1110 on the exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 11B.
[130]   In this case, if an unfolding interaction of unfolding the display 230 is detected while
      the exposure area is not touched, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to
      display an execution screen 1130 of the existing music application as illustrated in
      FIG. 11 C. In this case, a UI 1135 informing that a message is received may be
      displayed on one area of the execution screen 1130 of the music application for a pre
      determined time.
[131]   However, if an unfolding interaction of unfolding the display 230 is detected while
      the UI 1120 informing that a message is received is displayed on the exposure area, the
      controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a message window 1140 for
      writing a reply to the received message as illustrated in FIG. 1 ID.
[132]   In addition, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display different
      screens according to the order of detecting an unfolding interaction and a touch in
      teraction for lock-releasing.
[133]   Specifically, as illustrated in the left side of FIG. 12A, if a touch interaction for lock
      releasing is detected while a UI 1210 for releasing the lock of the user terminal device
      200 is displayed on the exposure area, the controller 290 may release the lock state of
      the user terminal device 200, and as illustrated in the right side of FIG. 12A, may
      control the display 230 to display a first home screen 1220 including time information
      on the exposure area.
[134]   In addition, as illustrated in the left side of FIG. 12B, if a touch interaction for lock
      releasing is detected while the UT 1210 for releasing the lock of the user terminal
      device 200 is displayed on the exposure area, and an unfolding interaction is detected,
      the controller 290 may release the lock state of the user terminal device 200, and as il
      lustrated in the right side of FIG. 12B, may control the display 230 to display a second
      home screen 1230 on full screen.
[135]   As illustrated in the left side of FIG. 12C, if an unfolding interaction is detected
      while an image is not displayed on the exposure area, the controller 290 may control
      the display 230 to display a UT 1240 for releasing the lock of the user terminal device
      on full screen as illustrated in the right side of FIG. 12C. If a touch interaction for lock
      releasing is detected on the UT 1240 for releasing the lock of the user terminal device
      200, which is displayed on full screen, the controller 290 may release the lock state of
      the user terminal device 200, and as illustrated in the right side of FIG. 12B, may

      control the display 230 to display the second home screen 1230 on full screen.
[136]   In addition, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display distinctively a
      screen which is displayed when only an unfolding interaction is detected while a UI
      corresponding to a specific application is displayed on the exposure area and a screen
      which is displayed when an unfolding interaction is detected after the exposure area is
      touched.
[137]   Specifically, if a call request is received from outside while the display 230 is folded,
      the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI 1310 informing a call
      request is received on the exposure area as illustrated in the left side of FIG. 13A. If
      the UI 1310 displayed on the exposure area is touched and then, an unfolding in
      teraction of unfolding the display 230 is detected, the controller 290 may control the
      display 230 to display an execution screen 1320 of a calendar application which is
      related to a call request function on full screen (in another example, an execution
      screen of a memo application) as illustrated in the lower left side of FIG. 13A. On the
      other hand, if an unfolding interaction of unfolding the display 230 is detected while
      the UI 1310 displayed on the exposure area is not touched, the controller 290 may
      control the display 230 to display a call screen 1330 on full screen as illustrated in the
      lower right side of FIG. 13A.
[138]   If a folding interaction of folding the display 230 is detected while a music ap
      plication is executed, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI
       1340 for controlling the music application on the exposure area as illustrated in the
      upper portion of FIG. 13B. If the UI 1430 displayed on the exposure area is touched
      and then, an unfolding interaction of unfolding the display 230 is detected, the
      controller 290 may control the display 230 to maintain music play and display a play
      list 1350 on full screen as illustrated in the lower left side of FIG. 13B. On the other
      hand, if an unfolding interaction of unfolding the display 230 is detected while the UI
       1340 displayed on the exposure area is not touched, the controller 290 may control the
      display 230 to display a music player screen 1360 on full screen as illustrated in the
      lower right side of FIG. 13B.
[139]   If a first unfolding interaction of unfolding a hinge angle of the display 230 as much
      as a predetermined angle is detected, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to
      display at least one icon for executing a specific function. If a second unfolding in
      teraction of unfolding the display 230 completely while at least one icon is touched,
      the controller 290 may execute a function corresponding to the touched icon.
[140]   According to an exemplary embodiment, if a call request is received from outside
      while the display 230 is folded, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to
      display a UI 1410 informing that a call request is received on the exposure area as il
      lustrated in FIG. 14A.

[141]   If the first unfolding interaction of unfolding a hinge angle of the display 230 as
      much as a predetermined angle (for example, 300 to 150') is detected while the UI
       1410 informing that a call request is received is displayed, the controller 290 may
      control the display 230 to display a UI 1420 including a plurality of icons 1430-1 to
       1430-3 for performing various functions in relation with making a call as illustrated in
      FIG. 14B.
[142]   If an unfolding interaction of unfolding the display 230 completely (that is, unfolding
      the display 230 such that a hinge angle of the display 230 becomes 180') is detected
      while a photo sharing icon is touched from among the plurality of icons 1430-1 to
       1430-3, the controller 290 may accept a call request, and as illustrated in FIG. 14C,
      may control the display 230 to display a call screen 1440 on the upper area and a list
      1450 for selecting a photo to be shared. In this case, if a touch interaction of dragging
      one of a plurality of photos included in the list 1450 to the call screen 1440 is selected,
      the controller 290 may control the communicator 240 to transmit the photo where the
      touch interaction is detected to a receiver.
[143]   If an unfolding interaction is detected, the controller 290 may control the display 230
      to display a plurality of guidance messages according to a hinge angle of the display
      230 while the unfolding interaction is detected. In this case, the guidance messages
      may include a guidance message for informing an incoming text message, a guidance
      message for informing an absence call, a guidance message for informing an incoming
      an SNS message or SMS message, a guidance message for informing update of ap
      plications, etc.
[144]   Specifically, as illustrated in FIG. 15A, the controller 290 may control the display
      230 to display one guidance message while the display 230 is folded. Subsequently, if
      an unfolding interaction of unfolding the display 230 is detected, the controller 290
      may control the display 230 to display the different number of guidance messages
      according to a hinge angle of the display 230. For example, if a hinge angle of the
      display 230 is within a first angle range (for example, between 50 and 15'), the
      controller 290 may control the display 230 to display two guidance messages 1510,
       1520. If a hinge angle of the display 230 is within a second angle range (for example.,
      between 150 and 250), the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display three
      guidance messages 1510, 1520, 1530. That is, the controller 290 may increase the
      number of guidance messages displayed as a hinge angle of display 230 becomes
      greater.
[145]   If a hinge angle of the display 230 is within a fourth angle range (for example,
      between 350 and 450), the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display five
      guidance messages (possibly overlapping) 1510 to 1550 as illustrated in FIG. 15B. In
      this case, as illustrated in FIG. 15B, the first guidance message 1510 which is updated

      most recently may be disposed on the top.
[146]   As illustrated in FIG. 15B, if a folding interaction of folding the display 230 again is
      detected when the second guidance message 1520 is touched while the five guidance
      messages 1510 to 1550 are displayed, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to
      display the second guidance message 1520 on the exposure area as illustrated in FIG.
       15C.
[147]   In addition, as illustrated in FIG. 15B, if an unfolding interaction of unfolding the
      display 230 completely is detected when the second guidance message 1520 is touched
      while the five guidance messages 1510 to 1550 are displayed, the controller 290 may
      control the display 230 to display a screen corresponding to the second guidance
      message 1520 on full screen as illustrated in FIG. 15D.
[148]   Further, the controller 290 may perform different functions according to the direction
      of a touch interaction which is detected on the exposure area while the display 230 is
      folded.
[149]   Specifically, if a message is received from outside while the display 230 is folded,
      the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI 1610 informing that the
      message is received on the exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 16A.
[150]   In this case, if a touch interaction in the left-and-right direction is detected on the UI
       1610 informing that a message is received, the controller 290 may control the display
      230 to display a UI informing the previous message or the next message on the
      exposure area according to the touch interaction.
[151]   If a touch interaction in the down direction is detected on the UI 1610 informing that
      a message is received, the controller 290 may delete a currently-received message.
[152]   If a touch interaction in the up direction is detected on the UI 1610 informing that a
      message is received, the controller 290 may store the received messages. Specifically,
      as illustrated in the upper left side of FIG. 16B, if a touch interaction in the up
      direction is detected on a UI 1620 informing that a first message is received, a touch
      interaction in the up direction is detected on a UI 1630 informing a second message is
      received, a touch interaction in the up direction is detected on a UI 1640 informing that
      a third message is received and then, an unfolding interaction of unfolding the display
      230 is detected, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a screen
       1620' including the first message, a screen 1630' including the second message, a
      screen 1640' including the third message and a home screen 1650 as illustrated in the
      lower right side of FIG. 16B.
[153]   <Maintain the current function despite the change in the shape of the display 230>
[154]   The controller 290 may maintain the current function even if the shape of the display
      230 changes according to a folding interaction or an unfolding interaction, and control
      the display 230 to display a screen corresponding to the current function.

[155]   According to an exemplary embodiment, if a folding interaction of folding the
      display 230 is detected while a music application is executed, the controller 290 may
      control the display 230 to display a UI 1710 corresponding to the music application on
      the exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 17A. If a call request is received while the UI
       1710 corresponding to the music application is displayed on the exposure area, the
      controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI 1720 informing that a call
      request is received on the exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 17B. If an unfolding in
      teraction of unfolding the display 230 is detected while the UI 1720 informing that a
      call request is received is displayed on the exposure area, the controller 290 may
      control the display 230 to display a call screen 1730 on full screen as illustrated in FIG.
       17C. Subsequently, when the telephone call is completed, the controller 290 may
      control the display 230 to display an execution screen 1740 of the music application on
      full screen as illustrated in FIG. 17D. If a folding interaction of folding the display 230
      is detected again, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display the UI cor
      responding to the music application on the exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 17E.
[156]   According to another exemplary embodiment, as illustrated in FIG. 18A, the
      controller 290 may control the display 230 to display an execution screen 1810 of a
      music application on full screen while the music application is executed. If a call
      request is received from outside, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to
      display a screen 1820 for confirming whether to accept the call request as illustrated in
      FIG. 18B. If a folding interaction of folding the display 230 is detected while the
      screen 1820 for confirming whether to accept the call request is displayed, the
      controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI 1830 informing that a call
      request is rejected on the exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 18C. When the telephone
      call is completed, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI 1840
      corresponding to the music application on the exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 18D.
      Subsequently, if an unfolding interaction of unfolding the display 230 is detected
      again, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display the execution screen
       1810 of the music application on full screen as illustrated in FIG. 18E.
[157]   The controller 290 may determine a display area which can be watched by a user
      according to a hinge angle of the display 230, and control the display 230 to display a
      screen including different amount of information on the determined display area. In
      this case, the hinge angle of the display 230 may be matched with the watchable
      display area and then stored.
[158]   According to an exemplary embodiment, if the display 230 is unfolded while a
      telephone call is performed, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a
      first telephone call screen 1910 on full screen as illustrated in FIG. 19A.
[159]   If a hinge angle of the display 230 is folded as much as 0 while a telephone call is

      performed, the controller 290 may determine a display area corresponding to the hinge
      angle, and as illustrated in FIG. 19B, may control the display 230 to display a second
      telephone call screen 1920 on the determined display area. In this case, the second
      telephone call screen 1920 may include the amount of information and icons which are
      smaller than those included in the first telephone call screen 1910.
[160]   In addition, if the display 230 is folded while a telephone call is performed, the
      controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI 1930 informing that a
      telephone call is being performed on the exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 19C.
[161]   According to another exemplary embodiment, if the display 230 is unfolded while a
      navigation application is executed, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to
      display a first navigation screen 2010 on full screen as illustrated in FIG. 20A.
[162]   If a hinge angle of the display 230 is folded as much as 0 while a navigation ap
      plication is executed, the controller 290 may determine a display area corresponding to
      the hinge angle, and as illustrated in FIG. 20B, may control the display 230 to display a
      second navigation screen 2020 on the determined display area. In this case, the guiding
      area of the second navigation screen 2020 may be smaller than the guiding area of the
      first navigation screen 2010.
[163]   If the display 230 is folded while a navigation application is executed, the controller
      290 may control the display 230 to display a third navigation screen 2030 on the
      exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 20C. In this case, the third navigation screen 2030
      might include only direction information and distance information instead of a map
      screen included in the first navigation screen 2010 and the second navigation screen
      2020. However, a map screen may also be included on the exposure area in third
      navigation screen 2030.
[164]   Whenever if a folding interaction or an unfolding interaction is detected, the
      controller 290 may control the display 230 to reconfigure and display information such
      that the information corresponds to the size and direction of a screen.
[165]   Specifically, as illustrated in FIG. 21A, if a folding interaction of folding the display
      230 is detected while a first address book list 2110 is displayed on full screen, the
      controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a second address book list 2120
      on the exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 21B. In this case, the first address book list
      2110 might include user information such as image, name, telephone number, direct
      call icon, etc., and the second address book list 2120 might include user information
      such as image and name only, but the display is not limited to this.
[166]   In addition, as illustrated in FIG. 22A, if an unfolding interaction of unfolding the
      display 230 is detected while a news title 2210 is displayed on the exposure area when
      the display 230 is folded, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a
      full screen 2220 including not only the news title but also the news image and the news

      text as illustrated in FIG. 22B.
[167]   In addition, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display different in
      formation on the exposure area and the hidden area when the display 230 is folded. In
      this case, as illustrated in FIG. 23A, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to
      display public information on an exposure area 2310 and private information on a
      hidden area 2320. For example, as illustrated in FIG. 23B, the controller 290 may
      control the display 230 to display barcode information which is public information on
      the exposure area 2330, and credit card list and transaction information which is
      private information on the hidden area 2340.
[168]   Hereinafter, a displaying method of the user terminal device 200 according to an
      exemplary embodiment will be described with reference to FIG. 24.
[169]   Specifically, the user terminal device 200 displays an image on the display 230
      which is divided into a first area and a second area which is larger than the first area
      with reference to a folding line (S2410).
[170]   The user terminal device 200 determines whether the display 230 is folded or not
      (S2420).
[171]   If the display 230 is folded (S2420-Y), the user terminal device 200 displays a prede
      termined UI on the exposure area which is an exposed part of the second area (S2430).
      In this case, the predetermined UI may include a UI including state information of the
      user terminal device 200 and a Ul for controlling the user terminal device 200.
[172]   As described above, a UI is displayed on the exposure area which is exposed to
      outside when the display 230 is folded and thus, a user may perform various functions
      of the user terminal device through the UI displayed on the exposure area and receive
      various information even if the display is folded.
[173]   FIGS. 25A to 27B are views provided to explain an exemplary embodiment of
      performing various functions of a user terminal device based on a folding interaction
      and an unfolding interaction according to various exemplary embodiments.
[174]   According to an exemplary embodiment, if an unfolding interaction is detected while
      a UI for informing that a message is received from outside is displayed when the
      display 230 is folded, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display the
      message received from outside.
[175]   Specifically, if an SNS message or SMS message is received while the display 230 is
      folded, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a UI 2510 informing
      that the SNS message or SMS message is received on the exposure area as illustrated
      in FIG. 25A. In this case, the UI 2510 informing that an SNS message or SMS
      message is received may include sender, time of the message being sent, message title,
      and partial content, etc. of the received SNS message or SMS message. If an unfolding
      interaction of unfolding the display 230 which is in a folding state is detected, the

      controller 290 may control the display 230 to display the detailed contents of the SNS
      message or SMS message received as illustrated in FIG. 25B. In this case, the detailed
      contents of the SNS message or SMS message may include sender, the time of the
      message being sent, message title, the detailed contents, SNS message editing icon, or
      SMS message editing icon, etc.
[176]   According to another exemplary embodiment, if a folding interaction is detected
      while a specific application is executed when the display 230 is in an unfolding state,
      the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display a graphic effect related to the
      execution screen of the specific application on the exposure area.
[177]   Specifically, as illustrated in FIG. 26A, if a folding interaction is detected while an
      execution screen 2610 of a music application is displayed when the display 230 is in an
      unfolding state, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display an equalizer
      animation 2620 of the music which is currently played on the exposure area as il
      lustrated in FIG. 26B.
[178]   In addition, as illustrated in FIG. 27A, if a folding interaction is detected while an
      execution screen 2710 of a weather application is displayed when the display 230 is in
      an unfolding state, the controller 290 may control the display 230 to display an
      animation 2720 related to the current weather (for example, cloudy sky) on the
      exposure area as illustrated in FIG. 27B.
[179]   Meanwhile, in the above exemplary embodiment, the exposure area is an area
      exposed to outside, without being covered by a specific cover, but this is only an
      example. The exposure area may be protected and covered by a specific cover.
[180]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the user terminal device 200 may include a
      transparent cover on the exposure area in order to protect the exposure area.
[181]   For example, if a folding line is in parallel with a longer side, the user terminal
      device 200 may include a transparent cover 2810 as illustrated in FIGS. 28A to 28D.
      FIG. 28A is a side view of the user terminal device 200 including the transparent cover
      2810, FIG. 28B is a plane view of the user terminal device 200 including the
      transparent cover 2810, FIG. 28C is a perspective view of the user terminal device
      including the transparent cover 2810 which is in a folding state, and FIG. 28D is a per
      spective view of the user terminal device 200 including the transparent cover 2810,
      which is unfolded at a specific angle.
[182]   If a folding line is in parallel with a shorter side, the user terminal device 200 may
      include a transparent cover 2910 as illustrated in FIGS. 29A to 29C. FIG. 29A is a side
      view of the user terminal device 200 including the transparent cover 2910, FIG. 29B is
      a plane view of the user terminal device 200 including the transparent cover 2910, and
      FIG. 29C is a perspective view of the user terminal device 200 including the
      transparent cover 2910, which is in a folding state.

[183]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the user terminal device 200 may
      include a punching cover on the exposure area in order to protect the exposure area.
[184]   Specifically, the user terminal device 200 may include a punching cover 3010 where
      punch holes are formed on the lower side which comes in contact with the exposure
      area as illustrated in FIGS. 30A to 30C. FIG. 30A is a side view of the user terminal
      device 200 including the punching cover 3010, FIG. 30B is a plane view of the user
      terminal device 200 including the punching cover 3010, and FIG. 30C is a perspective
      view of the user terminal device 200 including the punching cover 3010, which is in a
      folding state. In particular, with the punching cover 3010, the user terminal device 200
      may provide various information (for example, the current time, weather, a UI
      informing that a message is received, etc.) and image effects to a user by using the
      holes formed on the punching cover 3010.
[185]   With the transparent cover 2810, 2910., the controller 290 may sense a touch input in
      an area where the transparent cover 2810, 2910 is located while the display 230 is
      folded.
[186]   If a touch interaction of terminating a touch input is detected on a display cover area
      or a bezel area rather than the exposure area after the exposure area is touched while
      the display 230 is folded, the controller 290 may perform a predetermined function
      according to the detected touch interaction.
[187]   Specifically, as illustrated in () of FIGS. 31A and 31B, if a touch interaction of ter
      minating a touch input is detected on the upper side of the display cover area after the
      exposure area is touched when the display 230 is in a folding state, the controller 290
      may perform a first function (for example, storing a message, etc.) according to the
      touch interaction. In addition, as illustrated in @ of FIG. 31A, if a touch interaction of
      terminating a touch input is detected on a bezel area of the lower side after the
      exposure area is touched when the display 230 is in a folding state, the controller 290
      may perform a second function perform a second function (for example, deleting a
      message, etc.) according to the touch interaction. As illustrated in @ of FIG. 31 B, if a
      touch interaction of terminating a touch input is detected on a bezel area of the lower
      side after the exposure area is touched while the display 230 of the user terminal
      device 200 including the transparent cover 2810 is folded, the controller 290 may
      perform the second function (for example, deleting a message, etc.) according to the
      touch interaction.
[188]   A displaying method of a user terminal device according to one or more exemplary
      embodiments may be realized as a program and provided in a user terminal device.
      Specifically, a non-transitory computer readable medium which stores a program
      including a controlling method of a user terminal device may be provided.
[189]   The non-transitory recordable medium refers to a medium which may store data

      semi-permanently and may be readable by an apparatus. Specifically, the non
      transitory readable medium may be CD, DVD, hard disk, Blu-ray disk, USB, memory
      card, ROM, etc.
[190]   The foregoing embodiments and advantages are merely exemplary and are not to be
      construed as limiting the present invention. The present teaching can be readily applied
      to other types of apparatuses. Also, the description of exemplary embodiments of the
      present inventive concept is intended to be illustrative, and not to limit the scope of the
      claims, and many alternatives, modifications, and variations will be apparent to those
      skilled in the art.

                                          29
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
[Claim 1]      A user terminal device, comprising:
              a display configured to be divided into a first area and a second area which is
              larger than the first area with reference to a folding line;
              a detector configured to detect a user interaction; and
              a controller configured to,
              control the display to display at least one icon on an exposure area which is an
              exposed part of the second area while the display is folded,
              in response to detecting a touching of one of the at least one icon and an
              unfolding of the display, control the display to display to display a screen
              corresponding to the touched icon on the first area and second area n.
[Claim 2]      The user terminal device of claim 1,
              wherein each of the at least one icon corresponds to at least one application,
              wherein the processor executes an application relating to a selected icon from
              among the at least one icon and controls the display to display an execution
              screen of the executed application on the first area and the second area.
[Claim 3]      The user terminal device of claim 1, wherein the at least one icon comprises a
               call acceptance icon and a call refusal icon,
              wherein the processor, in response to the call acceptance icon being touched
              and the display being unfolded, controls the display to display a screen for
              performing a phone call on the first area and the second area.
              [Claim 4]         The user terminal device of claim 1, wherein the at least one
              icon comprises a message icon notifying that a message is received,
              wherein the processor, in response to the message icon being touched and the
              display being unfolded, controls the display to display an execution screen of
              a message application for receiving and transmitting a message on the first
              area and the second area.
[Claim 5]      The user terminal device of claim 1, wherein the at least one icon comprises
               an icon relating to music reproduction,
              wherein the processor, in response to an icon relating to the music
              reproduction being touched and the display being unfolded, controls the
              display to display an execution of a music application on the first area and the
              second area.

                                        30
[Claim 6]   A displaying method of a user terminal device comprising a display
            configured to be divided into a first area and a second area which is larger
            than the first area with reference to a folding line, comprising:
           displaying at least one icon on an exposure area which is an exposed part of
           the second area while the display is folded,
           in response to detecting a touching of one of the at least one icon and an
           unfolding of the display, displaying a screen corresponding to the touched
           icon on the first area and second area.
[Claim 7]   The method of claim 6,
           wherein each of the at least one icon corresponds to at least one application,
           and
           wherein the displaying a screen comprises executing an application relating to
           a selected icon from among the at least one icon and controlling the display to
           display an execution screen of the executed application on the first area and
           the second area.
[Claim 8]   The method of claim 6,
           wherein the at least one icon comprises a call acceptance icon and a call
           refusal icon, and
           wherein the displaying a screen comprises, in response to the call acceptance
           icon being touched and the display being unfolded, controlling the display to
           display a screen for performing a phone call on the first area and the second
           area.
[Claim 9]   The method of claim 6,
           wherein the at least one icon comprises a message icon notifying that a
           message is received,
           wherein the displaying a screen comprises, in response to the message icon
           being touched and the display being unfolded, controlling the display to
           display an execution screen of a message application for receiving and
           transmitting a message on the first area and the second area.
[Claim 10]  The method of claim 6,
           wherein the at least one icon comprises an icon relating to music
           reproduction, and

                           31
wherein the displaying a screen comprises, in response to an icon relating to
the music reproduction being touched and the display being unfolded,
controlling the display to display an execution of a music application on the
first area and the second area.

                                                               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721>
                                           <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E>
                         <U+261B><U+261B><U+261E>                     <U+270C><U+270D><U+261E>                 <U+261B><U+270E><U+261E>
                          <U+270F>          <U+2711>      <U+2712><U+2713>                       <U+2714>
                  <U+2717><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723>            <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2726><U+271C><U+271C><U+272A><U+2729>              <U+2717><U+272A><U+272B><U+272A><U+2725><U+2605><U+2726><U+2729>
               <U+2715><U+2716>          <U+2724>
                   <U+2718> <U+2718> <U+2718> <U+2718>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+272C><U+2721>
                                                       <U+270E><U+261E><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                                                                         <U+270E><U+272D><U+261E>
                                                                                           <U+2751><U+2738><U+261E>
                          <U+272E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2730><U+272A>
              <U+270E><U+270C><U+261E>                                                               <U+2734><U+2745><U+2726><U+2729><U+2722><U+2730><U+272A>
                         <U+2729><U+272A><U+2725><U+272A><U+2731><U+2732><U+272A><U+2729>
                                                                  <U+270E><U+272D><U+2733>
                                                                                           <U+2751><U+25B2><U+261E>
              <U+270E><U+270E><U+261E>         <U+272E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2730><U+272A>                                                  <U+2722><U+2737><U+2717><U+2731><U+2726>
                     <U+271B><U+2729><U+2726><U+2725><U+272A><U+2734><U+2734><U+2726><U+2729>             <U+2729><U+2722><U+272F>               <U+272F><U+2722><U+2731><U+2735> <U+2725><U+2736><U+2737>          <U+271B><U+2729><U+2726><U+2725><U+272A><U+2734><U+2734><U+2726><U+2729>
                                                                                           <U+2751><U+25BC><U+261E>
                                                                <U+270E><U+272D><U+2738><U+2739><U+261B>
                         <U+2717><U+272E><U+2734><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+273A>                                                <U+2734><U+271B><U+272A><U+2722><U+25C6><U+272A><U+2729>
                                                               <U+273B><U+2731><U+2729><U+2734><U+272B>
                                           <U+2729><U+2726><U+272F>                                             <U+2751><U+2756><U+261E>
                                                             <U+2731><U+2727><U+2605><U+272A><U+2729><U+273C><U+2722><U+2725><U+272A>
                         <U+273D><U+2731><U+273C><U+2731> <U+2725><U+273E><U+2731><U+2736>                                               P<U+2726><U+2737><U+2725><U+273E>
                                                                                           <U+270E><U+2756><U+261B>
                                                                               <U+2717><U+272A><U+2605><U+272A><U+2725><U+2605><U+2726><U+2729>
                     <U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+272A><U+2605><U+2726><U+2726><U+2605><U+273E>                                   <U+270E><U+272D><U+2738><U+2742><U+2743>
                           <U+2725><U+273E><U+2731><U+2736>                                                <U+272F><U+2726><U+2732><U+272A><U+272F><U+272A><U+2727><U+2605>
                                                                                           <U+270E><U+2756><U+270E>
                                                                               <U+2717><U+272A><U+2605><U+272A><U+2725><U+2605><U+2726><U+2729>
                      <U+273D><U+2731><U+2729><U+272A><U+2744><U+272A><U+2734><U+2734>                                 <U+2735><U+2745><U+273E>
                    <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+272E><U+2746><U+274B><U+25CF><U+272E><U+2747><U+274A>                            <U+2731><U+2727><U+2605><U+272A><U+2729><U+273C><U+2722><U+2725><U+272A>          <U+273C><U+2726><U+271C><U+2717><U+2731><U+2735><U+2730>    <U+270E><U+2756><U+270D>
                           <U+2725><U+273E><U+2731><U+2736>                                                <U+2717><U+272A><U+2605><U+272A><U+2725><U+2605><U+2726><U+2729>
              <U+270E><U+2733>         <U+2727><U+273C><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273E><U+2731><U+271B>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+274D><U+2721>
                                     <U+270D><U+261B><U+261E>
                                      <U+274F>
                              <U+270D><U+270E><U+261E>                      <U+270D><U+270D><U+261E>

                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
<removed-date>
                                <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
<removed-apn>                <U+261E><U+270E><U+270D>         <U+261E><U+261E><U+270D>
                                       <U+270F> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2712><U+270D>

                                                 <U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                               <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>
<removed-apn>               <U+271F><U+261B><U+2721>               <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                                      <U+261E>
                                     <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>

                                  <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                         <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>
                           <U+261B>
                             <U+261E>
                           <U+270C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712>
              <U+271F><U+2713><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2714><U+2721>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2715><U+271E>
                         <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
                          <U+2719>
                              <U+271A>
                          <U+271B>
                                         <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A>

                                                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721>
<removed-date>
                                <U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>                  <U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+270F>                       <U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2711>
                                                         <U+2712>                           <U+2713>
                                  <U+2716>                      <U+2717>
                         <U+271C><U+2722><U+2722> <U+270D>                 <U+271C><U+2722><U+2722> <U+270F>           <U+2725><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726> <U+2727>      <U+271C><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2711>               <U+271A><U+271A><U+271B>
                                        <U+2723><U+2724>
              <U+2714><U+2715>                                                                           <U+2719>
                                             <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+271C><U+272E><U+272C>                           <U+2718>            <U+261B><U+272F><U+261E>
                                <U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+270E><U+2730>                 <U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+270E><U+2731>                     <U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+270C><U+2732>
                        <U+2605><U+271C><U+2729><U+2733> <U+2734><U+2729>                <U+272D><U+2729><U+2735><U+272A><U+2736><U+272D>                     <U+2737><U+2738><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2729>
                      <U+273A><U+272E><U+271C><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2736><U+272E><U+273B>               <U+2605><U+271C><U+273C><U+271C><U+273D><U+272C><U+272E>                   <U+273A><U+272E><U+271C><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2736><U+272E><U+273B>
                             <U+273E><U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261B>                      <U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+270E><U+273F>                 <U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+270C><U+2740>
<removed-apn>
                                              <U+2737><U+2743><U+2737><U+2742><U+272C><U+2605>                    <U+2605><U+2738><U+2745><U+2742><U+2729><U+2605><U+272C><U+272A><U+2746><U+271C>
                       <U+2737><U+272C><U+2741><U+2738><U+272E><U+2729><U+2742><U+2743>
                                        <U+2744>     <U+2605><U+271C><U+273C><U+271C><U+273D><U+272C><U+272E>                   <U+273A><U+272E><U+271C><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2736><U+272E><U+273B>
                             <U+2747><U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+270E><U+2748>                    <U+2749><U+274A><U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+270E><U+270F>                 <U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+270C><U+272F>
                                                                        <U+2741><U+2736><U+273C><U+273C><U+272C><U+2741><U+2742><U+2746><U+2736><U+2735>
                         <U+25CF> <U+274D><U+274D>                <U+271C><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2605><U+271C><U+2733><U+271C><U+273D><U+272C><U+272E> <U+2744>
                  <U+274B>                     <U+2723>                               <U+2605><U+271C><U+2733><U+271C><U+273D><U+272C><U+272E>
                                                                                            <U+25BC> <U+25C6><U+271B>
                                               <U+273B><U+272C><U+272E><U+2735><U+272C><U+2751>                                        <U+271A>
              <U+274F>                                                                            <U+25B2>
                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                 |
                                                 <U+2736><U+2737>                                          <U+25D7>
              <U+274F>                                                                            <U+2756>P
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+275A><U+276F><U+2721>
                                                         <U+275C><U+270D><U+261E>
                       <U+2771><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768> <U+2769><U+276C> <U+276D><U+276A><U+276B> <U+2774> <U+2775><U+275B>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+275A><U+275D><U+2721>
                        <U+275E><U+2761><U+2761><U+2762><U+2761><U+2761><U+2763>       <U+2663> q <U+275C><U+270F><U+261E>
                      <U+2764> <U+2710><U+2765><U+2765><U+2766><U+2765><U+2765><U+2767> <U+2660> <U+2665> <U+2666>

                                                                  <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2731>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271F><U+271E>
               <U+2720> <U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270E><U+270E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270E><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711>                       <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+271C><U+271B> <U+271C><U+271B><U+271C><U+271B><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2722> <U+271B><U+271C> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2727><U+2605><U+271E>
                                                            <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2727><U+2729><U+271E>
               <U+272A>    <U+272B>                          <U+272C>    <U+272D>
                                         <U+272E><U+2734><U+2730>                             <U+272E><U+2734><U+2730>

                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                 <U+261E> <U+270C> <U+261E> <U+261E>
                 <U+270D> <U+270D> <U+270D> <U+270D>
                           <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>         <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2712><U+261B>
                          <U+2713>
                           <U+270E><U+2714><U+2711>
                           <U+270E><U+2714><U+2711>

                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                     <U+261E>    <U+270C>
                              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2711><U+261B>
                                    <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+2713><U+271A> <U+271B>
                                                     <U+271C><U+2722><U+270F>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B>

                                                             <U+2660><U+2665><U+2666><U+2663>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
               <U+271F> <U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                                        <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>
               <U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+2719><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+270F><U+2712>
                                                    <U+272A> <U+2730><U+2731><U+2732>
                   <U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2719><U+261B><U+2722>                  <U+2605> <U+2729>
               <U+2726>
                   <U+272B><U+272C><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B>   <U+270F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+270F><U+272F>
               <U+2733> <U+2734><U+2723><U+271B><U+2735><U+2736><U+2722><U+2723><U+2737><U+2725><U+272F><U+2738>
                   <U+273A><U+2719><U+2737> <U+2723><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+270C><U+273E><U+273E><U+273E><U+273E>           <U+273F> <U+2740>
               <U+2739>
                   <U+272B><U+272C><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B>    <U+270F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+270F><U+272F>
<removed-apn>
                   <U+2718><U+270C><U+2735> <U+2741><U+2723><U+2742><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270C><U+271B><U+2743><U+2744><U+2743><U+273E><U+273E><U+273E>      <U+2605> <U+2729>
               <U+2726>
                   <U+272B><U+272C><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B>   <U+270F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+270F><U+272F>
               <U+2733> <U+2745><U+271C><U+2743><U+2722><U+2723><U+2737><U+270E><U+2711><U+2738>
                   <U+2746><U+270C> <U+2737><U+270C><U+2735> <U+2747><U+261B><U+270C><U+2748> <U+273E><U+273E><U+273E>         <U+2605> <U+2729>
               <U+2739>
                   <U+272B><U+272C><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B>   <U+270F><U+272D><U+272E><U+270F><U+2749><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+270F><U+272F>
                   <U+274A><U+2743><U+273B><U+2743><U+274B><U+2719><U+2722> <U+25CF><U+2743><U+273B><U+2719> <U+273E><U+273E><U+273E>        <U+2605> <U+2729>
               <U+2739>
                   <U+272B><U+272C><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B>   <U+270F><U+272D><U+272E><U+270F><U+2749><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+270F><U+272F>
                   <U+274D><U+270C> <U+2711> <U+274F><U+270C><U+271A><U+271B><U+271A> <U+273E><U+273E><U+273E>         <U+2605> <U+2729>
               <U+2739>
                   <U+272B><U+272C><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272B>   <U+270F><U+272D><U+272E><U+270F><U+2749><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+270F><U+272F>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2751><U+25B2><U+271E>
               <U+25BC> <U+25C6><U+2727><U+2727><U+2719><U+271B><U+2756>P <U+25D7><U+2723><U+273B><U+270C><U+261B> |<U+2759> <U+275A><U+2719><U+276F><U+2719><U+2727><U+271B>         <U+2749> <U+272D>
                                                <U+2771><U+2772> <U+2773>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2751><U+271D><U+271E>
                   <U+2768><U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A>
                    <U+276B><U+2774><U+276B><U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275B><U+275C><U+2775><U+275D><U+275E><U+275D><U+275E>
                                      <U+2761><U+2762><U+2763><U+2764><U+2762><U+2710>
                                      <U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2762>
                                                       <U+2749><U+272F><U+272D>

                                                       <U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270C><U+261B><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                <U+2713><U+270E><U+2721><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>
                  <U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2717>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+2718><U+271F>
                 <U+2719>         <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723>
                 <U+2724> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2725><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2726><U+2605><U+2727><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272A>
                   <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E> <U+272F><U+272C><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+272C> <U+2734>
                                     <U+2735><U+2736> <U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+2737><U+273A>
                                                <U+2716><U+2717><U+2775><U+2717>
                  <U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744>
                  <U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D>
                 <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>
                |<U+2759>                      <U+275A><U+276F>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2771> <U+2706><U+271E><U+271F>
                            <U+2772> <U+2773><U+2768><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2717>
                           <U+2769>

                                                         <U+2746><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
                           <U+2721>
                                <U+270C>
                             <U+261B> <U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+270E><U+270F>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2711>
                             <U+2712>
                             <U+2713>
                             <U+2714>
                             <U+2715>
                             <U+2716>
                             <U+2711>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706> <U+271D><U+2720><U+271F>
                             <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719>           <U+271A>
                         <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+271C><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2727><U+271C><U+2726><U+2605>     <U+2729>      <U+270E><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF>
                                           <U+272A>
                   <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+2605> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2732> <U+2735><U+272D><U+2732><U+2736>
                           <U+2737><U+2738><U+2739>
                                                  <U+270E><U+274A><U+274B><U+270F>
                 <U+273A>                          <U+273B>
                 <U+273C><U+273C><U+273D><U+273C><U+273C>                    <U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+273F><U+2741>
                <U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2742>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                     <U+270C>
                         <U+2713><U+2714><U+2713><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2718><U+2719>
                     <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722> <U+2723><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+271B><U+2605>
                                   <U+2729><U+272A><U+2713><U+272B><U+272C><U+2713><U+2716>
<removed-apn>
                 <U+272D>                    <U+272E><U+272F> <U+2730><U+2731><U+2714><U+2732><U+2718><U+2713>
                <U+2733> <U+2734> <U+2735> <U+2736> <U+2737> <U+2738> <U+2739> <U+273A><U+273B> <U+273C>
                     <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745>
                <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D>
                <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+25D7>|<U+261E>
                                             <U+2759>
                                             <U+2714><U+272B><U+2714><U+2713>                   <U+2768><U+2714><U+272B><U+272B><U+2713>
                                                    <U+275A><U+276F>     <U+2771>   <U+2772><U+2773>

                                          <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
                                            <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>        <U+2718><U+2719>
                                        <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+271C><U+272A><U+272B><U+271C><U+272C> <U+272D>
                                                       <U+2730>
                                                  <U+272E><U+272F>       <U+2731>
<removed-apn>
                                    <U+2732>                          <U+2733><U+2734>
                          <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B>
                                        <U+2735>    <U+2736>     <U+2737>           <U+2738>
                           <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+271F>
                                        <U+2739><U+2739><U+2739>
                                        <U+2739><U+2739><U+2739>
                                        <U+2739><U+2739><U+2739>
                           <U+2720><U+2721><U+270D><U+261B><U+270E><U+270F>

                                                                  <U+275E><U+2761><U+2762><U+2763><U+2764>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                                          <U+2720>     <U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270C>
                                               <U+270E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2711>
                         <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719>                                <U+2710><U+2718><U+2719><U+2765>
                                                <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722>                               <U+270E><U+270F><U+270F><U+2711>
                                                     <U+2605>
              <U+2723> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270C><U+2726> <U+2727>
               <U+2729>         <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272B><U+272E><U+272F><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2732><U+270E><U+2731>          <U+2733>
              <U+272A><U+2734><U+2735> <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738> <U+2739><U+273A><U+273B> <U+273C><U+272B><U+273D> <U+2739><U+273E><U+2734>         <U+273F><U+2740><U+2741>   <U+2742><U+2743><U+2744> <U+2745>
                    <U+2746><U+2747>    <U+2748><U+2749>   <U+274A><U+274B>   <U+25CF>      <U+2731>     <U+274D>
                                                         
               <U+274F>    <U+2751>      <U+25B2>    <U+25BC>    <U+25C6>     <U+2756>     <U+270E><U+2732>
                                                         
               <U+25CF><U+270E>   <U+270E><U+2731>    <U+25CF><U+274D>   <U+25CF><U+274F>   <U+270E><U+2751>    <U+25CF><U+25B2>     <U+270E><U+25BC>
                                                                 <U+2766><U+2767> <U+2660><U+2665><U+2666><U+2665><U+2663> q<U+2665>rrst
              <U+25CF><U+25C6>    <U+270E><U+2756>    <U+2731><U+2732>   <U+2731><U+270E>   <U+2731><U+2731>    P<U+25D7>     <U+2731><U+274F> 
                                                                    <U+2711><U+2709><U+2709><U+2709><U+2708><U+2707><U+270E><U+270F><U+275D><U+25CF><U+270F><U+2460>
                                          <U+2759>
               <U+2731><U+2751>   <U+2731><U+25B2>    <U+2731>|   <U+2731><U+25C6>   <U+2731><U+2756>           <U+275A>
                                          <U+276F><U+2771><U+2772>            <U+2745>
                    <U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2769>
               <U+2773>
                    <U+276C><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+2768><U+276C>                             <U+2745>
                                                             <U+2461><U+2462><U+2462> <U+2463><U+2464><U+2465><U+2466>
                     <U+2721><U+276A> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270C><U+276A> <U+2724><U+270C><U+276B><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775>            <U+2711><U+2711><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D>
               <U+276D>

                                                                      <U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                                     <U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B>
                                     <U+261E>          <U+270C><U+270D>
                                         <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                     <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>
                                         <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723>                                           <U+270E><U+270F><U+2745><U+2712>
                                                                          <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749> <U+274A><U+274B> <U+25CF><U+25CF><U+25CF>
                          <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2605><U+2729><U+2725><U+2726><U+272A>
                                                                              <U+270E><U+274D><U+270E>
                          <U+272B><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2725><U+272C><U+2730><U+272D><U+2731><U+2732>
                          <U+272E><U+272F><U+272C><U+2730><U+2733><U+272D><U+2731><U+2732><U+272A><U+2734>
                          <U+2735><U+272A> <U+272D><U+2736> <U+2737><U+272A>
                          <U+272F><U+2729><U+2736><U+272D><U+2736>
                                                                                         <U+274F>
                          <U+2605><U+2729><U+2727> <U+2738><U+272F><U+272A><U+272C>
                                                              <U+2751><U+2751><U+25B2><U+2751><U+2751>                     <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+25B2><U+25C6><U+2756>
              <U+2739> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273B>
                                                              P<U+25D7>|<U+2759>P
              <U+273C>           <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F>

                                                             <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+2747>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
                                <U+2717>
                                    <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B>
                                <U+2718>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+2719>
                                <U+271A>
                                <U+271B>
                                <U+271C>
                                <U+271C>
                                <U+271C>
                                <U+2722>
                                <U+2723>
                                <U+2724>
                                <U+2724>
                                <U+2725>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+2720><U+271F>
                                       <U+272C><U+272C><U+272C> <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731>
                                          <U+2732><U+2731><U+2733><U+2731><U+2734><U+2735>
                                                    <U+272A><U+2729><U+2743><U+272B>
                <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>                    <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C>    <U+272A><U+2729><U+2744><U+272B><U+2745><U+2605>
                <U+270E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2715><U+2716>             <U+2737><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2738>
                                             <U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2738>   <U+272A><U+2729><U+2744><U+272B><U+2745><U+2743>

                                                    <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
                <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711><U+270F><U+2713><U+2714><U+2713><U+2714>
                                <U+2722> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2723><U+2724><U+2712>
                                            <U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
                <U+2715><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2719>
                                            <U+2712><U+2713><U+272A><U+270D>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271B><U+271C><U+271F>
                                          <U+272B> <U+272C><U+270E><U+272A><U+2712><U+270D>

                                                      <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                                               <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B>
                                              <U+261E><U+2721><U+2713><U+261B>
                          <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+270D><U+261B>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+270E><U+271F>
                                    <U+270F> <U+2711><U+2720><U+2721><U+270C><U+261B>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+2712><U+271F>
                                                              <U+2719> <U+271A><U+2720><U+2721><U+270C><U+261B>

                                                               <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                                            <U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2719>
               <U+2720> <U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>      <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712>     <U+2713><U+2714>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+2715><U+271F>
                     <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719>                              <U+2716><U+2717><U+272B><U+2719>                   <U+2736><U+2717><U+2737><U+2719>
                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                   <U+272C>   <U+2716><U+2717><U+272B><U+2719><U+272D>
                            <U+271A>
                                                                   <U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C>
                            <U+271B> <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726>
                            <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729> <U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F>
                               <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+272A>               <U+2716><U+2717><U+2730><U+2719><U+272A>           <U+2716><U+2717><U+273D><U+2719>

                                         <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
                          <U+2721>
                            <U+270C>
                          <U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2711>
                          <U+2712>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+2720><U+271F>
                              <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+270F><U+2727><U+2711>
                          <U+2713>
                          <U+2714>
                          <U+2715>
                          <U+2716>
                          <U+2717>
                          <U+2718>
                          <U+2718>
                          <U+2718>
                          <U+2719>
                          <U+271A>
                          <U+271B>
                          <U+271C>
                          <U+271C>
                          <U+2722>

                                                                      qrst<U+2709>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
                 <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                                                      <U+2716><U+2717> <U+2774> <U+2711><U+2775><U+2712><U+270D>
                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2715>
                                          <U+2718> <U+270D><U+270D><U+2719><U+271A><U+2711>
                                <U+271B><U+271C>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726>
                                <U+2605><U+2729>
                   <U+2727>            <U+272E><U+272F>
                 <U+2730><U+2731><U+2731> <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2734>       <U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2733><U+2731>
                                          <U+272A> <U+272B><U+272C><U+272C> <U+272D>
                <U+2739> <U+273A><U+273B><U+2736><U+2733><U+273C><U+2736><U+273D> <U+273E> <U+273F>   <U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2736>           <U+2736><U+2733><U+2731><U+2746><U+2736><U+2742>
                                              <U+2745>       <U+273E>
                                         <U+2743><U+2744>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+2747><U+271F>
                                 <U+2748><U+2749><U+274A>            <U+274B> <U+25CF><U+274D>
                            <U+2748><U+274F><U+2751><U+270C><U+274F><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6> <U+2756><U+274F><U+25C6>P       <U+25D7>
                    |<U+2759><U+275A><U+275A>P <U+276F><U+2771><U+2772> <U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+275A><U+2768> <U+276C><U+275A><U+2768><U+2721>
                                <U+276D><U+276A><U+276B>
                                                        <U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E><U+270E><U+2761>
                                                                 <U+2714><U+270D>
                                  <U+2730>
                 <U+2762>                                  <U+2763>
                 <U+2764><U+2764><U+2710><U+2764><U+2764>                           <U+2765><U+2766><U+2710><U+2766><U+2767>
                 <U+2660><U+2665><U+2666><U+2663><U+2660>

                                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                                 <U+270C>
                                 <U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711><U+2713>
                                 <U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2715><U+2716><U+261E>
                              <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719>
                         <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+271C><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A> <U+271A>
                    <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+272D><U+2732> <U+2734><U+272D><U+2732><U+2735>
                                <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738>
                          <U+273A><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273A><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273A><U+2739>
                                   <U+273D>
                                   <U+273F>
                  <U+273C>                                   <U+273E>
                  <U+2740><U+2740><U+2741><U+2740><U+2740>                             <U+2742><U+2743><U+2741><U+2743><U+2744>
                 <U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2745>
                                      <U+2711><U+2718><U+2711><U+2749>

                                                <U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
                 <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E><U+2711><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713>
                                <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2716><U+271B><U+271C><U+271C>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+2722><U+2723>
                                  <U+2724>
                          <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2726> <U+2726><U+2726>
                             <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+2727><U+271F>
                             <U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733>
                                  <U+2605><U+2729><U+2734><U+272B>
                            <U+272C>
                            <U+272D>
                           <U+272E>
                           <U+272F>
                           <U+2730>
                            <U+272E>
                            <U+272D>

                                                      <U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+271F>
                              <U+270D><U+2721><U+270E>         <U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>
                          <U+270D><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2717><U+271A><U+271C>   <U+2722>
                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+271C> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+2725><U+272A> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272A><U+272E>
                            <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731>
                                          <U+2732>
                 <U+2733>                              <U+2734>
                <U+2735><U+2735><U+2736><U+2735><U+2735>                         <U+2737><U+2738><U+2736><U+2738><U+2739>
                 <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E>
                                 <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261E>

                                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
<removed-date>
                               <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>
                                       <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716> <U+2717> <U+2718>
                                <U+2726>
               <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2724><U+271B><U+2725>
                                               <U+270F><U+270F><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>
                                                <U+272A>
<removed-apn>
                           <U+272B>
                                        <U+272C>
                             <U+272E><U+272F>
                 <U+272D>           <U+272E><U+272F>
                <U+2734><U+2735><U+2735> <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739>    <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+2737><U+2735>      <U+2730> <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2733>
                 <U+273E><U+273F><U+2740>
                <U+2741><U+2742><U+273B><U+2737><U+2743><U+273B><U+2744>                      <U+2745><U+273B><U+2737><U+2735><U+2746><U+273B><U+2747>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2748><U+270C>
                 <U+272D>
                <U+2734><U+2735><U+2735> <U+2749><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739>
                                      <U+270D><U+270E><U+2605><U+270F>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+274A><U+270C>
                 <U+274B> <U+25CF><U+274D><U+274F><U+2751> <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>                  <U+270F><U+270F><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>
                                    <U+270D><U+270E>P<U+270F>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                           <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
                           <U+270F>             <U+2711>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712><U+261E>
                                  <U+270C><U+270D><U+270C><U+270D>

                                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                <U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>
                  <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271A>           <U+2718><U+2719><U+271B>
                           <U+2717><U+271C><U+2718><U+271C>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2722><U+2723><U+270C>
                           <U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+271C>
               <U+2725> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A> <U+272B><U+272C> <U+272D><U+2714>
                 <U+271C><U+2724><U+271C><U+272F><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+272F><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730>     <U+272E>
               <U+2731> <U+2726><U+270F><U+272B><U+2732> <U+2712><U+2733><U+2733> <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2605>
                 <U+271C><U+2724><U+271C><U+272F><U+2730><U+2737><U+272F><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730>      <U+272E>
               <U+2738> <U+2726><U+270F><U+272B><U+2739> <U+2712><U+273A><U+2736><U+273B> <U+2726><U+272C>
                 <U+271C><U+2724><U+271C><U+272F><U+2730><U+2737><U+272F><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730>      <U+272E>
               <U+2725> <U+2726><U+270F><U+272B><U+273C><U+273D><U+2734><U+2714> <U+270F>
                 <U+271C><U+2724><U+271C><U+272F><U+2730><U+2737><U+272F><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730>      <U+272E>
               <U+2738> <U+2605><U+2714><U+273E> <U+270F><U+2605>
                 <U+271C><U+2724><U+271C><U+272F><U+2730><U+2737><U+272F><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730>      <U+272E>
               <U+2725> <U+272B><U+2714><U+273C> <U+273F><U+2740><U+2605><U+2729> <U+2741><U+2727><U+2726>
                 <U+271C><U+2724><U+271C><U+272F><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+272F><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730>     <U+272E>
               <U+2738> <U+2742><U+2727><U+2711><U+2726><U+2743> <U+272B><U+2744> <U+272D><U+270F>
                 <U+271C><U+2724><U+271C><U+272F><U+2730><U+2737><U+272F><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730>      <U+272E>
               <U+2725> <U+2742><U+2727><U+2711><U+2726><U+273C> <U+2712><U+2733><U+2733> <U+272D><U+270F>
                 <U+271C><U+2724><U+271C><U+272F><U+2730><U+2737><U+272F><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730>      <U+272E>

                                               <U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
               <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+261E><U+2714><U+2711><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+261E><U+2714><U+2711><U+2715> <U+2716><U+271C><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2723>
              <U+261E><U+2714><U+2711><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2718><U+270C><U+2726>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270D>
              <U+2711><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2727><U+2605><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270C><U+261E>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2706><U+272A><U+271F>
                   <U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731> <U+2730><U+272E><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735> <U+2736><U+2732><U+272D><U+2737><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739>
                   <U+2738><U+272D><U+2734><U+273A><U+272D><U+273B><U+2735> <U+273C><U+2734><U+2732><U+2730><U+2738><U+272D><U+2737> <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+272E>
               <U+272B>                           <U+2747>
                               <U+2740>
                             <U+2720><U+2720><U+2721><U+2741>

                                                 <U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                                          <U+271F><U+271F><U+271F><U+2720>
                <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+261E><U+2711><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2711><U+270D><U+2716><U+2711><U+2717><U+270E> <U+2718><U+270D><U+261E><U+2721><U+2713><U+2711><U+2712>
                <U+2719><U+2713><U+271A><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271C><U+261E><U+270C><U+2717><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2711><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2711><U+261E><U+2725>
<removed-apn>
                <U+2726><U+2727><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2729><U+2724><U+272A><U+2715><U+272A><U+272B> <U+2726><U+261B><U+2605><U+272C><U+261B><U+2724><U+272D><U+2726><U+272E><U+2724><U+261B>
                <U+2729><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2715><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2732><U+2729><U+2733><U+261B> <U+2731><U+261B><U+261B><U+2734> <U+2735><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2736><U+2737><U+271E>
                                                         <U+273D><U+273E><U+271F><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741>
              <U+2742><U+2743><U+2743><U+2743><U+2743><U+2743><U+2744><U+274F><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2747><U+2747><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D><U+25B2>
                                   <U+2751>
                    <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>|<U+2759> <U+2756><U+275A><U+276F><U+2771>      <U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+2756><U+276C> <U+2756><U+276D><U+276F><U+2771>
                                 <U+271F><U+273F><U+271F><U+2720>

                                                             <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                  <U+272D><U+272E>     <U+2756>PP|
                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                  <U+272C>
<removed-apn>                                                        <U+2729>
                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                  <U+272F>
                                                     <U+272B>
                <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+2711>                         <U+2712> <U+272B>
                                                     <U+2730>
                <U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714><U+2713>                       <U+2731>                   <U+2756>PP|
                                          <U+2715><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                <U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2718>                                    <U+2729>
                                                                  <U+2730>
                                               <U+271C> <U+2722>
                <U+271A>                         <U+271B>
                <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2725> <U+2726> <U+2725> <U+2727>              <U+2605>
                                 <U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+273B>                          <U+2732>     <U+273C><U+2733><U+2734>
                                  <U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743> <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2741> <U+2747><U+2742><U+2748><U+2743> <U+2749>    <U+2735>      <U+2766><U+2745><U+2746><U+2744><U+274D><U+2741><U+2740>
                                 <U+274A><U+2746><U+2745><U+274B><U+2748><U+2745><U+2744><U+25CF><U+2742><U+274D><U+274B> <U+2742><U+2748><U+2743><U+274D><U+273F><U+274F> <U+2756>P<U+25D7>| <U+2719><U+2719>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+273D><U+261E>
                                  <U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+25B2>
                    <U+2759><U+275A><U+2751><U+276F><U+2771><U+25BC><U+2772> <U+275A><U+2773><U+25BC><U+2768><U+2769> <U+276C><U+276D> <U+2759><U+275A><U+2751><U+276F><U+2771><U+25BC><U+2772> <U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+276B> <U+275A><U+2751>     <U+2767><U+2756><U+25D7><U+2660>|
                    <U+2759><U+275A><U+275B><U+275A><U+2759><U+2769><U+2759> <U+2774><U+276D><U+25B2><U+276C> <U+275C><U+2774><U+25C6><U+2751><U+25B2> <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2769><U+25BC> <U+25BC><U+276D><U+2759> <U+2751><U+2769><U+2775><U+276C><U+276D><U+2759>
                   <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2769><U+25BC> <U+25B2><U+276B><U+25BC><U+275D> <U+275A><U+2751> <U+2771><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2768><U+2769><U+25C6> <U+25B2><U+276B><U+25BC><U+276D> <U+275E><U+275A><U+25C6><U+2751><U+25B2> <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2769><U+25BC>
                      <U+276A><U+275A><U+25B2><U+2761> <U+25C6><U+2769><U+275C><U+2769><U+25C6><U+2769><U+2762><U+2775><U+2769> <U+25B2><U+276C> <U+275E><U+276C><U+2763><U+2759><U+2774><U+276D><U+2768> <U+2763><U+275A><U+276D><U+2769>
                                                          <U+2767><U+2756><U+25D7><U+2756>|
                       <U+2759><U+275A><U+2751><U+276F><U+2771><U+25BC><U+2772> <U+276F><U+25C6><U+2769><U+2759><U+2769><U+2764><U+2769><U+25C6><U+2773><U+2774><U+2762><U+2769><U+2759> <U+2710><U+275A> <U+276C><U+2762>
                                                          <U+2767><U+2756><U+25D7>P|
                     <U+2769><U+2765><U+276F><U+276C><U+2751><U+2710><U+25C6><U+2769> <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2769><U+25BC> <U+276A><U+276B><U+275A><U+2775><U+276B> <U+275A><U+2751> <U+2769><U+2765><U+276F><U+276C><U+2751><U+2769><U+2759>
                           <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2769><U+25BC> <U+276C><U+275E> <U+2751><U+2769><U+2775><U+276C><U+276D><U+2759> <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2769><U+25BC>
                                   <U+2769><U+276D><U+2759>

                                                                       <U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+2775><U+275D>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2720> <U+2721> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2712><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712>      <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722>
                      <U+270E>    <U+2714> <U+2718>             <U+271A><U+271A>     <U+2723>
                   <U+261E>                       <U+261E>
                                         <U+2719>
<removed-apn>
                                             <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+2605><U+271F>
                 <U+2729> <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732>
                 <U+2733>
                 <U+2733> <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+272A> <U+2737><U+272D><U+272D><U+2738><U+2739>
                   <U+273A><U+273B><U+273B><U+273A><U+273B><U+273A><U+273B><U+273A><U+273B><U+273A><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273A><U+273B><U+273A><U+273B><U+273A><U+273B><U+273A><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273A><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273A><U+273C><U+273A><U+273B><U+273A><U+273B><U+273D>
                 <U+273E> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+270C><U+273F><U+2740>
                   <U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741><U+2741>
                 <U+2733> <U+2742><U+270C><U+2743><U+2744> <U+2745><U+270D><U+272D><U+2737><U+272B>
                      <U+2748><U+270C><U+270D><U+270C><U+2749><U+2740><U+274A><U+2739><U+2739><U+274B><U+2716><U+272D><U+273F>
                                            <U+25CF> <U+274D>
                 <U+2746><U+2747>
                 <U+2734><U+274F><U+272D><U+2743><U+272D><U+2739> <U+2751><U+270D><U+272D><U+2749> <U+25B2><U+2744><U+270C> <U+270D><U+272D><U+2735><U+2738> <U+2743><U+270D><U+25BC><U+25C6>              <U+25D7>|<U+2759>
                 <U+273B><U+273A><U+273B><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273B><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273B><U+273A><U+273A><U+273B><U+273A><U+273A><U+273B><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273B><U+273A><U+273A><U+273B><U+273B><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273B><U+273A><U+273B>             <U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2727>
                                <U+2756>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706>P<U+271E><U+271F>
                                                                               <U+2724><U+275E><U+2726><U+2727>
                                              <U+275A> <U+276F><U+2771><U+2772><U+2773> <U+2768><U+2769><U+276C> <U+276D><U+2769><U+276A><U+276B>
                                                                  <U+2761>
                            <U+2774>

                                                                        <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                                          <U+270C><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+270F><U+2711><U+261E>
                                                                               <U+270C><U+2746><U+2747><U+2745>
                       <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2713><U+271A> <U+2715><U+271B> <U+271C><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2729>   <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731> <U+2712><U+2732><U+2733> <U+2715><U+2734>
                         <U+2735> <U+2736> <U+2737><U+2738>        <U+2739>     <U+273A> <U+273B><U+273C> <U+2742>  <U+273D>       <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F>      <U+273D>
                              <U+2741>                              <U+2742><U+2743> <U+2742>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B><U+261E>
                                          <U+270C><U+2744><U+270C><U+2745>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2740><U+2711><U+261E>

                                    <U+2701> <U+2702>
              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
<removed-date>
                           <U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
<removed-apn>
               <U+2711>
              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2712><U+261B>
              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2713><U+261B>

                                           <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                           <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2711><U+261E>
                                       <U+2712>
                                   <U+2713>
                                  <U+270C><U+270D><U+2714><U+270F>

                                                                     <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>    <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+261E>
                         <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+261E>
                 <U+2714>
                 <U+2715><U+2715><U+2716><U+2715><U+2715><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2717><U+2715><U+2715><U+2716><U+2715><U+2715><U+2716><U+2715><U+2715><U+2715><U+2715>
                 <U+2715><U+2717><U+2717><U+2715><U+2717><U+2717><U+2716><U+2717><U+2717><U+2716><U+2717><U+2715><U+2717><U+2717><U+2715><U+2717><U+2717><U+2715><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717>
                 <U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718>
                 <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719> <U+2719><U+271A>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711>
                 <U+2715><U+2715><U+2716><U+2715><U+2717><U+2717><U+2716><U+2717><U+2717><U+2716><U+2717><U+2717><U+2715><U+2717><U+2715><U+2715><U+2717><U+2715><U+2715><U+2717><U+2715>
               <U+271B>

                                  <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2701>
              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+261E><U+270C><U+261B>
              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+261E><U+270D><U+261B>
                           <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>

