                               ABSTRACT
The utility model discloses a courier box for logistics which includes a
box cover and box. The box consists of the housing, sponge layers and
ice trays. The housing is in rectangular shape with an opening on the top;
Ice trays are mounted on the two opposite sides of the wall inside. Sponge
layers are laid both in the inner wall of the housing on the both sides of
the ice trays and on the bottom of the housing. Axle sleeves are
fixed and welded on the upper end of the side perpendicular to the side
where the ice trays are located. Keyholes are set at the upper end of the
side wall opposite to the axle sleeves. A groove is installed lateral
to the housing between keyholes. Sponge layers are fastened and
installed on the inner side of the box cover. An electronic lock is
installed on the sponge layers. Shackles are symmetrically arrayed
on one side of the box cover near the electronic lock. The two sets of
shackles are matched with the keyholes on the housing. A spindle is
fastened and welded on the other side of the box cover. The logistics
courier box has the advantages of reasonable structural design and good
preservation effects etc. which can be widely promoted for use.
                                      1

  DRAWINGS OF THE ABSTRACT
1
              2

                          DESCRIPTION
                A Type of Logistics Courier Box
Technical Field
The utility model relates to a courier box, in particular, a
logistics courier box.
Background for the Technology
In logistics transport, customized boxes should be prepared in
advance for each shipment of products, such as fresh boxes,
which are relatively expensive and discarded after one single
application, resulting in lots of wastes because they cannot be
used repeatedly. Another problem       is that the preservation
effects are not very satisfactory, because customers cannot
afford the costs of using good packaging materials for the
boxes which are thrown away after one time use. The last
problem is that there is no personalized service, no privacy,
the   boxes   are  easily  opened   by   a  third party  during
transportation exposing the products.

Content of Utility Model
The main purpose of the utility model is to provide a type of
logistics    courier   box    which    can   effectively    address   the
problems mentioned in the background for the technology.
The technical      scheme adopted for the utility model is as
follows in order to achieve the above objectives:
A type of logistics courier box includes a box cover and the
box .The box consists of housing, sponge layers and ice trays;
The housing is in a rectangular shape with an opening on the
top; The four corners at the bottom of the box are fixed with
stand bars; The ice trays are mounted on the two opposite sides of the
wall inside the housing; Sponge layers are laid both in the inner wall of
the housing on the both sides of the ice trays and on the bottom of
the housing; The sponge layers are spliced type structure; On
the housing, axle sleeves are fixed and welded on the upper end of
the side perpendicular to the side where the ice trays are located; There
are two opposite sets of axle sleeves in which there are two
axle holes respectively facing each other; On the housing, the
keyholes are set at the upper end of the side wall opposite to the axle
sleeves; The keyholes are set symmetrically at the upper end of the
                                     2

side wall of the housing; A groove is installed lateral to the
housing between the two sets of           keyholes; Sponge layers are
fastened and installed on the inner side of the box cover; An electronic
lock is installed on the sponge layers; On the box cover,
shackles are symmetrically arrayed on one side of the box cover near the
electronic lock; The two sets of shackles are matched with the keyholes
on the housing; A spindle is fastened and welded on the other side of the
box cover; The diameter of the spindle is the same as that of the
axle holes of the axle sleeves.
Further, there are openings on the upper end of the ice trays;
There are inner boxes inside the ice trays; There are cover
plates at the upper end the inner boxes with the same size as
the cross section of the ice trays; There are through-holes on
the side of the ice trays where the two sets face each other and
also on the cover plates of the inner boxes; The through-holes
are evenly arrayed.
 Further, the height of the ice trays are lower than that of the
 housing; There are pressure holes on the housing right above
 the top of the ice trays; The pressure holes are horizontally
 equidistantly    arrayed   ,  connecting the inside of the box
                                    3

 withthe outside. Further, a wireless charging module is also
 installed at the upper end of the box cover; The wireless
 charging module is electrically connected with the electronic
 lock through wires;
Compared with the existing technology, the utility model has
the following beneficial effects: The logistics courier box can
preserve fresh products through the design of the ice trays and
inner boxes equipped with the through-holes where ice cubes
can be placed inside.     This can ensure the quality of the
products during logistics process. The design of electronic
lock and wireless charging module make the charging process
convenient and speedy;     The design of the sponge layers with
spliced structure improves the box insulation effect, and can
absorb   shocks  avoiding   product  damage.   Meanwhile,   the
design of the spliced structure is very convenient for the
disassembling of the sponge blocks; The logistics courier box
has the advantages of reasonable structure design and good
preservation effect etc. which can be widely promoted for use.
Brief Description of the Drawings:
Figure is the schematic view of a type of logistics courier
                                4

box for the utility model.
Figure2 is the schematic view of the box of a type of logistics
courier box for the utility model.
Figure3 is the schematic view of the box cover of a type of
logistics courier box for the utility model.
In the drawings: 1. Box cover; 2. Box; 3. Groove; 4. Pressure
hole; 5. Axle sleeve; 6. Sponge layer; 7. Ice tray; 8.Stand bar;
9. Housing; 1O.Keyhole; 11. Inner box;         12. Through-hole;
13. Spindle; 14.Shackle; 15.Electronic lock
Specific Execution Mode
Further elaboration of the utility model is provided in the
following by combining with the specific execution mode so
that   the  technical   means,     creation  features,  intended
achievements and the effects of the utility model are clear and
easy to understand.
As shown in Figure       1-3, a type of logistics courier box
includes a box cover     1 and box 2. The box 2 consists of
                                5

housing 9, sponge layers 6 and ice trays7; The housing 9 is in
a rectangular shape with an opening on the top; The four
corners of the bottom of box 2 are fixed with stand bars 8;The
ice trays 7 are mounted on the two opposite sides of the wall inside the
housing 9; Sponge layers 6 are laid both in the inner wall of the housing
9 on the both sides of the ice trays 7 and on the bottom of the
housing 9; The sponge layers 6 are spliced type structure; On
the housing 9,axle sleeves 5 are fixed and welded on the upper end
of the side perpendicular to the side where the ice trays 7 are located;
There are two opposite sets of axle sleeves 5 in which there
are two axle holes respectively facing each other; On the
housing 9, keyholes 10 are set at the upper end of the side wall
opposite to the axle sleeves 5; The keyholes 10 are set symmetrically
at the upper end of the side wall of the housing 9; A groove 3 is
installed lateral to the housing 9 between the two sets of
keyholes 10; Sponge layers 6 are fastened and installed on the inner
side of the box cover 1; An electronic lock 15 is installed on the
sponge layers 6;On the box cover 1, shackles 14 are symmetrically
arrayed on one side of the box cover 1 near the electronic lock 15; The
two sets of shackles 14 are matched with the keyholes 10 on the housing
9; A spindle 13 is fastened and welded on the other side of the box
cover 1; The diameter of the spindle 13 is the same as that of
                                    6

the axle holes of the axle sleeves5.
 Wherein,    there are openings on the upper end of the ice trays
 7; There are inner boxes 11 inside the ice trays 7; There are
 cover plates at the upper end the inner boxes 11 with the same
 size as the cross section of the ice trays 7; There are
 through-holes 12 on the side of the ice trays 7 where the two
 sets face each other and also on the cover plates of the inner
 boxes 11; The through-holes 12 are evenly arrayed.
Wherein, the height of the ice trays 7 are lower than that of
the housing 9; There are pressure holes 4 on the housing 9
right above the top of the ice trays 7; The pressure holes 4 are
horizontally equidistantly arrayed ,    connecting the inside of
the box 2 with the outside.
Wherein, a wireless charging module is also installed at the
upper end of the box cover 1; The wireless charging module is
electrically  connected with the electronic lock     15 through
wires; There is a QR code for identification on the box cover 1,
and information IC card is embedded inside the box 1.
                                 7

It should be noted that the utility model is a logistics courier
box which is used to refrigerate products by placing ice cubes
in the ice trays 7 when transporting            fresh products.    The
sponge    layers 6    inside the     box 2   can keep    its   internal
temperature, also have the function of shock absorption to
avoid damage to the products; Before the goods transport, the
consignee     pays   for   the   goods   and   shipment,   while    the
consigner gives the consignee a return receipt containing a set
of   data   such   as    the   open-box    password,   and    box    ID
information.     The   delivery    staff  picks   up  goods     in  the
merchant's warehouse, while scanning the QR code or identity
information IC card in the induction box, so the transport path
of the box can be queried in the APP platform. The customer
can enter the box ID directly in the APP system and will get
the real time location of the driver for parcel delivery. When
the delivery staff hands over the box to the customer, the
customer just needs to enter the APP platform,               click the
"scan" in the user interface functional block, scan the box QR
code with his cell phone,         or use cell phone Bluetooth to
interact with box Identity IC card, then the cell phone screen
will show the customer's specific information. Also should
remind the customer to enter the open-box password in the
                                    8

phone interface and the information of actual recipient. Once
the password     is entered, the box will open. The products
inside can be taken out, the box then can be immediately
recovered by the delivery staff.
The basic principles, main features and the advantages of the
utility model have been shown and described above. The
technical personnel in the field should know that the utility
model is not limited to the above embodiments, and that the
implementation and the description in the specification only
illustrate the principle of the utility model. It will be changed
and improved in different ways without being separated from
its spirit and scope. These changes and improvements fall
within the scope of the claimed invention. The protection
scope for the utility model is defined in the attached claims
and their equivalents.
                                 9

                               CLAIMS
1. A type of logistics courier box including a box cover (1)
and box(2)      has the following features: The box(2)consists
of housing (9)       , sponge layers ( 6)    and ice trays (7)       ; The
housing (9)     is in a rectangular shape with an opening on the
top; The four corners at the bottom of the box (2)              are fixed
with stand bars ( 8 ) ;The ice trays (7) are mounted on the two
opposite sides of the wall inside the housing       ( 9 ) ; Sponge layers
are laid both in the inner wall of the housing (9) on the both sides of
the ice tray (7)     and on the bottom of the housing (9);The
sponge layers (6) are spliced type structure; On the housing
  ( 9) , axle sleeves ( 5 )    are fixed and welded on the upper end of
the side perpendicular to the side where the ice trays   ( 7 ) are located;
There are two opposite sets of axle sleeves ( 5)                in which
there are two axle holes respectively facing each other; On
the housing ( 9 ) , keyholes ( 10 ) are set at the upper end of the side
wall opposite to the axle sleeves ( 5 ) ; The keyholes ( 10 )        are set
symmetrically at the upper end of the side wall of the housing        (9)
A groove( 3)      is installed lateral to the housing (9)between
the two sets of        keyholes ( 10 ) ; Sponge layers ( 6) are fastened
and installed on the inner side of the box cover( 1) ; An electronic lock
  (15)     is installed on the sponge layers (6)            ; On the box
                                    1

   cover ( 1 ) , Shackles       ( 14 ) are symmetrically arrayed on one side
   of the box cover    ( 1 ) near the electronic lock (15 ) ; The two sets of
   shackles    ( 14 ) are matched with the keyholes (10)       on the housing
     ( 9 ) ; A spindle     ( 13 ) is fastened and welded on the other side of
   the box cover( 1); The diameter of the spindle (13) is the same
   as that of the axle holes of the axle sleeves ( 5)           .
 2. According to Claim 1,the characteristics                 of a type of
 logistics courier box are: There are openings on the upper end
 of the ice trays (7); There are inner boxes (11)             inside the ice
 trays     (7)    ; There are cover plates at the upper end the inner
 boxes (11)      with the same size as the cross section of the ice
 trays (7); There are through-holes (12) on the side of the ice
 trays (7) where the two sets face each other and also on the
 cover plates of the inner boxes (11)             ; The through-holes(12)
 are evenly arrayed.
3. According to Claim             1,the characteristics     of a type of
logistics courier box are:          The height of the ice trays (7) are
lower than that of the housing (9); There are pressure holes (4)
on the housing( 9)        right above the top of the ice trays (7); The
pressure holes (4)         are horizontally equidistantly arrayed
                                        2

connecting the inside of the box (2)   with the outside.
 4. According to Claim 1,the characteristics of a type of
 logistics courier box are: A wireless charging module is also
 installed at the upper end of the box cover (1); The wireless
 charging module is electrically connected with the electronic
 lock (15) through wires;
                                3

<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+271F><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E><U+2706><U+2721><U+2706><U+270E><U+2704><U+261B><U+2706><U+2720><U+271D>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2721><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2721><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2701>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2721><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2701>

