  ABSTRACT
            Methods and devices are provided for anchoring suture to bone. In one
  exemplary embodiment, a cannulated suture anchor is provided and it includes a
  suture-engaging member formed therein and configured to receive a suture
5 therearound such that trailing ends of the suture can extend through the suture
  anchor. The suture anchor can also include at least a proximal portion having dual
  threads to facilitate engagement with bone. The present invention also provides
  exemplary sutures and drivers that can be used with the various methods and devices
  disclosed herein, or with other methods and devices known in the art.
  3452224vl

       1/10
   (N
H&
      -7-7/Z i
COv

                                               -1
                     METHODS FOR ANCHORING SUTURE TO BONE
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention generally relates to medical devices and procedures, and more
   particularly to systems and methods for attaching soft tissue to bone.
 5 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   The complete or partial detachment of ligaments, tendons and/or other soft tissues
   from their associated bones within the body are relatively commonplace injuries,
   particularly among athletes. Such injuries are generally the result of excessive
   stresses being placed on these tissues. By way of example, tissue detachment may
10 occur as the result of an accident such as a fall, over-exertion during a work-related
   activity, during the course of an athletic event, or in any one of many other situations
   and/or activities.
   In the case of a partial detachment, the injury will frequently heal itself, if given
   sufficient time and if care is taken not to expose the injury to further undue stress. In
15 the case of complete detachment, however, surgery may be needed to re-attach the
   soft tissue to its associated bone or bones. Numerous devices are currently available
   to re-attach soft tissue to bone. Examples of such currently-available devices include
   screws, staples, suture anchors, and tacks. In soft tissue re-attachment procedures
   utilizing screws, the detached soft tissue is typically moved back into its original
20 position over the bone. Then the screw is screwed through the soft tissue and into
   the bone, with the shank and head of the screw holding the soft tissue to the bone.
   Similarly, in soft tissue re-attachment procedures utilizing staples, the detached soft
   tissue is typically moved back into its original position over the bone. Then the
   staple is driven through the soft tissue and into the bone, with the legs and bridge of
25 the staple holding the soft tissue to the bone.
   In soft tissue re-attachment procedures utilizing suture anchors, an anchor-receiving
   hole is generally first drilled in the bone at the desired point of tissue re-attachment.
   Then a suture anchor is deployed in the hole using an appropriate installation tool.
   This effectively locks the suture to the bone, with the free end(s) of the suture
30 extending out of the bone. The free ends of the suture are passed through or around
   3452224vl

                                                -2
   the soft tissue and are used to tie the soft tissue securely to the bone.
   While current suture anchors are effective in anchoring soft tissue to bone, one
   drawback with current devices is that the suture anchor must have a head with a
   length that is sufficient to withstand a torque applied thereto by a driver. As a result
 5 of the increased length, the suture anchor will typically extend at least partially into
   underlying soft cancellous bone in order to position the head beneath the outer
   surface of the bone. The bone-engaging portion of the suture anchor will thus be
   mostly disposed within and engaged with cancellous bone, rather than cortical bone.
   This is due to the fact that the cortical bone is only about 1 mm to 3 mm in length,
10 and the driver head is often longer than 3 mm. Once implanted, tension applied to
   the anchor via the sutures can cause the anchor to migrate into the cortical bone and
   thus the head of the suture anchor can become proud, resulting in a weak fixation
   among other problems.
   Accordingly, there remains a need for improved methods and devices for attaching
15 soft tissue to bone.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   Methods and devices are provided for anchoring sutures to bone. In one
   embodiment, a suture anchor is provided having an elongate body with proximal and
   distal ends and an inner lumen extending therethrough. A first thread extends around
20 the elongate body from the proximal end toward the distal end of the elongate body,
   and a second thread extends around the elongate body between at least a portion of
   the first thread such that the first and second threads are spaced a distance apart from
   one another. In an exemplary embodiment, the elongate body has a constant root
   diameter. The suture anchor can also include a suture-engaging member located
25 adjacent to the distal end of the elongate body and positioned such that a suture can
   be disposed therearound and trailing ends of the suture can extend through the inner
   lumen and out of the proximal end of the elongated body.
   The first and second threads can have various configurations.       In one embodiment,
   the first thread can extend from the proximal end to a position just proximal to the
30 suture-engaging member, and the second thread can extend from the proximal end
   3452224vl

                                              -3
   and terminate proximal to the first thread. In another embodiment, the first and
   second threads can extend from the proximal end to a position just proximal to the
   suture-engaging member such that the first and second threads have a length that is
   substantially the same. Alternatively, the first thread can extend from the proximal
 5 end to the distal end, and the second thread can extend from the proximal end and
   terminate proximal to the first thread. In another embodiment, the first and second
   threads can extend from the proximal end to the distal end such that the first and
   second threads have a length that is substantially the same and that extends along an
   entire length of the elongate body.
10 The suture anchor can also include various other features. For example, the suture
   anchor can include a distal tip formed on the distal end of the suture anchor. The
   threads can be formed on the distal tip, or the distal tip can be non-threaded. The tip
   can also be blunt or it can be pointed to facilitate insertion into a bone hole, and the
   tip can be hollow or solid. In other embodiments, the suture anchor can include a
15 proximal end that is configured to receive a driver. For example, a proximal portion
   of the inner lumen can have an asymmetrical or non-circular cross-sectional shape
   for receiving a driver tool therein.
   The suture-engaging member can also have a variety of configurations. In an
   exemplary embodiment, the suture-engaging member extends between opposed walls
20 of the inner lumen, preferably substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the
   lumen. The suture-engaging member can have various shapes and sizes. For
   example, in one embodiment the suture-engaging member include features, such as
   scallops, to facilitate positioning ofmultiple sutures.
   In yet another embodiment, a suture anchor is provided having an elongate body with
25 first and second threads extending from a proximal end toward a distal end of the
   elongate body, an inner lumen extending into a proximal end of the elongate body,
   and a cut-out formed in a sidewall of the elongate body. The cut-out is in
   communication with the inner lumen and it defines a suture-engaging member
   extending across the inner lumen and configured such that a suture can extend
30 around the suture-engaging member and trailing ends of the suture can extend
   3452224vl

                                               -4
   through the cannulated body.
   In other aspects, a suture anchor is provided having a cannulated body with first and
   second threads extending from a proximal end toward a distal end of the cannulated
   body, an opening formed in a sidewall of the cannulated body and in fluid
 5 communication with an inner lumen extending through the elongate body, and a
   suture-engaging member extending across the inner lumen and configured such that a
   suture can extend around the suture-engaging member and trailing ends of the suture
   can extend through the cannulated body.
   Exemplary suture anchor systems are also provided, and in one embodiment the
10 system can include a suture anchor having a cannulated body with first and second
   threads extending from a proximal end toward a distal end of the cannulated body,
   and a suture-engaging member located adjacent to the distal end and configured such
   that a suture can extend around the suture-engaging member and trailing ends of the
   suture can extend through the cannulated body. The system can also include a driver
15 tool having a distal end adapted to be inserted into and to engage the proximal end of
   the suture anchor for driving the suture anchor into bone.
   The threads can have various configurations. In one embodiment, the second thread
   can have a distal end that terminates at a location proximal to a distal end of the first
   thread. Alternatively, the first and second threads can have a length that is
20 substantially the same. The suture anchor can also include various other features,
   including those previously discussed above.
   Exemplary methods for anchoring suture to bone are also provided. In one
   embodiment, a method for anchoring suture to bone includes coupling a suture to a
   suture anchor such that the suture extends around a suture-engaging member formed
25 in a distal portion of the suture anchor and trailing ends of the suture extend through
   an inner lumen extending through the suture anchor and out of a proximal end of the
   suture anchor. A driver is inserted into the proximal end of the suture anchor, and
   the driver is rotated to thread the suture anchor into a bone hole to anchor the suture
   to the bone. In an exemplary embodiment, the suture anchor includes an opening
30 formed in a sidewall thereof that allows fluid to flow into the inner lumen of the
   3452224vl

                                              -5
   suture anchor. The suture anchor can include first and second threads that are spaced
   axially apart from one another and that have the same pitch such that the first and
   second threads are driven into bone at the same rate. In one embodiment, the first
   and second threads can be formed on at least the proximal portion of the suture
 5 anchor such that the first and second threads engage cancellous bone. In another
   embodiment, the first thread can extend along a distal portion of the suture anchor
   such that the first thread engages cortical and cancellous bone. In yet another
   embodiment, the first and second threads can extend from the proximal end to the
   distal end of the suture anchor such that the first and second threads engage cortical
10 and cancellous bone.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   The invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed description
   taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
   FIG. 1A is a side view of one embodiment of a cannulated suture anchor having a
15 proximal portion with a dual threaded region and a single threaded region, and a non
   threaded distal portion with a suture-engaging member;
   FIG. lB is a perspective view of the cannulated suture anchor of FIG. 1A;
   FIG. IC is a cross-sectional view of the cannulated suture anchor of FIG. 1A;
   FIG. ID is another cross-sectional view of the cannulated suture anchor of FIG. 1A;
20 FIG. 2A is a side view of another embodiment of a cannulated suture anchor having
   a dual threaded proximal portion and a non-threaded distal portion with a suture
   engaging member;
   FIG. 2B is a perspective view of the cannulated suture anchor of FIG. 2A;
   FIG. 3A is a side view of yet another embodiment of a cannulated suture anchor
25 having a proximal portion with a dual threaded region and a single threaded region,
   and a non-threaded distal portion with a suture-engaging member and a bone
   penetrating tip;
   3452224vl

                                              -6
   FIG. 3B is a perspective view of the cannulated suture anchor of FIG. 3A;
   FIG. 3C is a cross-sectional view of the cannulated suture anchor of FIG. 3A;
   FIG. 3D is another cross-sectional view of the cannulated suture anchor of FIG. 3A;
   FIG. 4A is a side view of a cannulated suture anchor having a dual threaded proximal
 5 portion and a single threaded distal portion with a suture-engaging member and a
   bone-penetrating tip according to another embodiment;
   FIG. 4B is a perspective view of the cannulated suture anchor of FIG. 4A;
   FIG. 4C is a cross-sectional view of the cannulated suture anchor of FIG. 4A;
   FIG. 4D is another cross-sectional view of the cannulated suture anchor of FIG. 4A;
10 FIG. 5A is a side view of yet another embodiment of a cannulated suture anchor
   having a proximal portion with a dual threaded region and a single threaded region, a
   threaded distal portion having a pointed tip, and a scalloped suture-engaging
   member;
   FIG. 5B is a cross-sectional view of the cannulated suture anchor of FIG. 5A;
15 FIG. 6 is a perspective view of one embodiment of a driver tool for inserting a suture
   anchor into bone;
   FIG. 7 is a cross-sectional view of another embodiment of a driver tool shown
   engaged with a suture anchor; and
   FIG. 8 is a partially cross-sectional view of the suture anchor of FIG. 1A implanted
20 in bone and having three sutures coupled thereto.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   Certain exemplary embodiments will now be described to provide an overall
   understanding of the principles of the structure, function, manufacture, and use of the
   devices and methods disclosed herein. One or more examples of these embodiments
25 are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.    Those of ordinary skill in the art will
   3452224vl

                                              -7
   understand that the devices and methods specifically described herein and illustrated
   in the accompanying drawings are non-limiting exemplary embodiments and that the
   scope of the present invention is defined solely by the claims. The features
   illustrated or described in connection with one exemplary embodiment may be
 5 combined with the features of other embodiments.      Such modifications and
   variations are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention.
   The present invention generally provides methods and devices for anchoring suture
   to bone. In an exemplary embodiment, a cannulated suture anchor is provided and
   includes a suture-engaging member formed therein or thereon and configured to
10 receive a suture therearound such that trailing ends of the suture can extend through
   the suture anchor. The use of a cannulated suture anchor allows a driver to be
   inserted into the inner lumen of the suture anchor for driving the suture anchor into
   bone. Such a configuration will allow the torque strength of the suture anchor to be
   maximized due to the increased engagement between the suture anchor and the
15 driver. This in turn will allow the suture anchor to be formed from a broad range of
   materials, including nonabsorbable materials, such as metal or plastic, bioabsorbable
   materials, and/or osteoconductive materials. The cannulated suture anchor is also
   particularly advantageous as the inner lumen can allow materials, such as bone
   growth promoting materials, sealants, adhesives, etc., to be introduced therein to
20 facilitate fixation. The suture anchor can also include at least a proximal portion
   with dual threads configured to optimize fixation within hard cortical bone, thereby
   decreasing the risk for migration of the suture anchor. A person skilled in the art will
   appreciate that, while methods and devices are disclosed herein for anchoring soft
   tissue to bone, the methods and devices can be used in a variety of other medical
25 procedures for anchoring various objects to one another.
   FIGS. 1A-ID illustrate one exemplary embodiment of a cannulated suture anchor 10
   for anchoring soft tissue to bone. As shown, the suture anchor 10 is in the form of a
   generally elongate body having proximal and distal ends 10a, 10b with an inner
   lumen 10c extending therethrough. At least one bone-engaging surface feature can
30 be formed on at least a portion of an external surface thereof for engaging bone. In
   the illustrated embodiment, the suture anchor 10 includes a threaded proximal
   3452224vl

                                                -8
   portion 12a and a non-threaded distal portion 12b. The suture anchor 10 also
   includes a suture-engaging member 14 disposed within the inner lumen 10c adjacent
   to the distal end 1Ob of the suture anchor 10. The suture-engaging member 14 can be
   adapted to receive one or more sutures therearound such that the suture(s) can extend
 5 around the suture-engaging member 14 and trailing ends of the suture(s) can extend
   through the inner lumen 10c and out of the proximal end 10a of the suture anchor 10.
   The suture anchor 10 can be formed from a variety of materials.       In an exemplary
   embodiment, the material has physical properties that are sufficient to allow a driver
   to be inserted into the inner lumen 1 Oc of the suture anchor 10 and to be used to drive
10 the suture anchor 10 into bone without damaging the suture anchor 10. The
   properties of the material will of course depend on the particular configuration of the
   suture anchor 10. For example, the inner lumen 1Oc of the suture anchor 10 can have
   a length that maximizes the torque strength of the suture anchor 10 as well as the
   amount of surface contact between a driver and the suture anchor 10, thus allowing
15 weaker materials, such as bioabsorbable and/or osteoconductive materials to be used.
   A person skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of other materials, including
   plastics and metals, can be used to form the suture anchor 10.
   The body of the suture anchor 10 can have a variety of configurations, shapes, and
   sizes. In an exemplary embodiment, the body is configured to be implanted within a
20 bone tunnel formed in bone, and more preferably it has a size and shape that allows it
   to be fully engaged through the thickness of the cortical bone. As indicated above, in
   the illustrated embodiment the body has a generally elongate cylindrical shape with
   an inner lumen 10c extending therethrough. The diameter di of the inner lumen 10c
   can vary, but in an exemplary embodiment the diameter di is sufficient to receive one
25 or more, and preferably three, pairs of sutures therethrough. In an exemplary
   embodiment, the inner lumen 10c has a diameter di that is in the range of about 1.5
   mm to 3.0 mm.      This will allow six trailing ends of three sutures having a maximum
   outer diameter of about 0.028 inches each to be disposed through the inner lumen
    10c. As further shown in FIGS. lA-ID, the inner 10c lumen can extend through the
30 entire length of the suture anchor 10, including through the distal tip as will be
   discussed in more detail below. The suture-engaging member 14 can, however,
   3452224vl

                                              -9
   extend across a portion of the lumen 10c, as will be discussed in more detail below.
   In other embodiments, the lumen 10c can terminate prior to a substantially solid tip.
   The tip can be blunt or rounded, as shown, or it can be pointed to facilitate insertion
   into a bone tunnel. Other tip configurations can be utilized, as later disclosed herein
 5 or as known in the art.
   The proximal end 10a of the body can be head-free, as the cannulated configuration
   of the body allows a driver to be inserted into the inner lumen 10c to drive the suture
   anchor 10 into bone. While various techniques can be used to facilitate engagement
   between the inner lumen 10c and a driver mechanism, in an exemplary embodiment
10 the inner lumen 1Oc, or at least a portion thereof; has an asymmetrical or non-circular
   shape that complements a corresponding asymmetrical or non-circular shape of a
   driver. The asymmetrical portion preferably extends along a substantial length of the
   inner lumen 10c so as to maximum surface contact between a driver and the suture
   anchor 10. By way of non-limiting example, FIGS. IC and ID illustrate a hexagonal
15 cross-sectional shape formed in the inner lumen 10c for receiving a driver having a
   corresponding hexagonal drive tip. The hexagonal cross-section extends from the
   proximal-most end 10a of the suture anchor 10 and terminates just proximal to the
   proximal end of a cut-out 16, as will be discussed in more detail below. Exemplary
   drivers are discussed in more detail below, and are also disclosed in commonly
20 owned U.S. Apple. No. 11/555,545 filed on Nov. 1, 2006 and entitled "Cannulated
   Suture Anchor," U.S. Apple. No. 11/555,557 filed on Nov. 1, 2006 and entitled
   "Suture Anchor With Pulley," and U.S. Apple. No. 11/555,568 filed on Nov. 1, 2006
   and entitled "Wired Sutures," all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in
   their entireties.
25 As further shown in FIGS. 1A- ID, the body can also include one or more bone
   engaging surface features formed thereon and adapted to engage bone. While
   various surface features can be used, such as teeth, ridges, protrusions, etc., in an
   exemplary embodiment the body can include one or more threads extending
   therearound, and more preferably the threads are formed on at least a proximal
30 portion of the body to provide enhanced fixation with hard cortical bone to prevent
   migration of the suture anchor when implanted. As shown in FIGS. 1A-ID, the body
   3452224vl

                                               - 10
   includes a threaded proximal portion 12a having a first and second threads 18a, 18b
   extending therearound and a non-threaded distal portion 12b. The first thread 18a
   originates at the proximal end 10a of the body and it terminates just proximal to the
   suture-engaging member 14. The particular location at which the first thread 18a
 5 terminates can vary depending on the particular configuration of the suture anchor
    10, as well as the configuration of the tip. As will be discussed in more detail below,
   the illustrated suture anchor 10 can include a cut-out 22 formed in the distal end 10b
   thereof and the first thread 18a can terminate just proximal to the proximal end of the
   cut-out 22. As a result, the first thread 18a extends along about 75% of the length of
10 the suture anchor 10. A person skilled in the art will appreciate, however, that the
   length of the first thread 18a can vary. As further shown in FIGS. lA-ID, the body
   can also include a second thread 18b extending between the first thread 18a. The
   second thread 18b can extend over only a portion of the body, or over the entire
   length of the body, including or excluding the distal tip, as will be discussed in more
15 detail below. As shown in FIGS. 1A-iD, the second thread 18b extends along only a
   proximal-most portion of the body, and it terminates proximal to the first thread 18a.
   The illustrated second thread 18b thus extends over about 25% of the length of the
   suture anchor 10. As a result, the illustrated suture anchor 10 includes a threaded
   proximal portion 12a with a dual threaded proximal region and a single threaded
20 distal region.
   While the position of the second thread 18b relative to the first thread 18a can vary,
   in an exemplary embodiment, as shown, the second thread 18b extends between the
   first thread 18a and the threads 18a, 18b are spaced equidistant apart from one
   another along the axis A of the suture anchor 10, i.e., the threads 18a, 18b are axially
25 aligned. The first and second threads 18a, 18b can also have the same or different
   configurations, but in an exemplary embodiment the first and second threads 18a,
    18b are identical and have the same shape and size, including the same pitch. This
   will allow the first and second threads 18a, 18b to simultaneously cut independent
   courses (paths) through bone. While the pitch can vary depending on the particular
30 configuration of the suture anchor as well as the intended use, in an exemplary
   embodiment the pitch is in the range of about 8 TPI to 20 TPI, and more preferably
   the pitch is about 15 TPI. The first and second threads 18a, 18b can also be aligned
   3452224vl

                                              - 11
   radially with one another, or alternatively the second thread 18b can be radially
   offset from the first thread 18a such that one of the threads, e.g., the first thread 18a,
   engages bone prior to the other thread, e.g., the second thread 18b, to facilitate
   insertion.
 5 The geometry of each thread 18a, 18b can also vary, and the threads 18a, 18b can
   have a constant thickness between the root and crest, or the thickness can decrease
   from the root to the crest as shown. The shape of the crest can also vary. As shown
   in FIGS. 1A-ID, the threads 18a, 18b each have a v-shaped configuration with
   opposed surfaces that extend at about 400 and with a flat crest. Such a configuration
10 facilitates engagement with bone, thereby preventing suture migration when the
   anchor 10 is implanted.
   As further shown in FIGS. 1A- ID, the suture anchor 10 can also have a minor or root
   diameter dmin that remains constant along the entire length thereof, or at least along
   the threaded portion. The major diameter dmax can also remain constant along the
15 entire length of the suture anchor 10. While the particular dimensions will vary
   depending on the size of the suture anchor and the intended application, in an
   exemplary embodiment the suture anchor 10 has major and minor diameters dmax,
   dmin that differ by about 1-2 mm, and more preferably about 1.5 mm. For example,
   the major diameter can be about 5.5 mm, and the minor diameter can be about 4 mm.
20 A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the major and/or minor diameters can
   also vary, and they can taper along a portion or along the entire length of the suture
   anchor 10.
   As previously indicated above, the suture anchor 10 can also include a suture
   engaging member 14. The suture-engaging member 14 can have a variety of
25 configurations, but in an exemplary embodiment it is adapted to engage one or more
   sutures that extend through the inner lumen 10c of the suture anchor 10. As shown
   in FIGS. 1A-ID, the suture-engaging member 14 is in the form of a post or elongate
   member that extends transversely across the inner lumen 10c between opposed inner
   sidewalls of the suture anchor 10. The angular orientation of the suture-engaging
30 member 14 relative to the longitudinal axis A of the suture anchor 10 can vary, but in
   3452224vl

                                               - 12
   an exemplary embodiment the suture-engaging member 14 extends substantially
   perpendicular to the longitudinal axis A of the anchor 10. The location of the suture
   engaging member 14 can also vary, but in an exemplary embodiment the suture
   engaging member 14 is positioned at or adjacent to the distal end 10b of the suture
 5 anchor 10. In the embodiment shown in FIGS. 1A- ID, the suture-engaging member
    14 is located just proximal to the distal-most end 10b of the suture anchor 10 so as to
   form a suture-seating groove 19 in the distal-most end of the suture anchor 10. This
   recessed configuration of the suture-engaging member 14 can allow a suture(s)
   disposed around the suture-engaging member 14 to sit flush or sub-flush with the
10 distal end 1Ob of the suture anchor 10 such that the suture(s) will not interfere with
   insertion of the suture anchor 10 into bone. The location of the suture-engaging
   member 14 near the distal end 10b is also advantageous as it allows the remainder of
   the lumen extending proximally from the suture-engaging member 14 to receive the
   driver. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the suture-engaging member
15  14 can be integrally formed with the suture anchor 10, i e., the suture anchor 10 and
   suture-engaging member 14 can be molded as a single unit or formed from a single
   piece of material, or the suture-engaging member 14 can be fixedly or removably
   mated to the suture anchor 10.
   As further shown in FIGS. 1A- ID, in order to facilitate positioning of a suture(s)
20 around the suture-engaging member 14, the suture anchor 10 can include one or
   more cut-outs formed in a sidewall thereof adjacent to the suture-engaging member
    14. As best shown in FIGS. 1A and 1B, in an exemplary embodiment the suture
   anchor 10 includes a cut-out 16 that begins just proximal to the location of the
   suture-engaging member 14, and that extends around the distal end 10b of the suture
25 anchor 10 such that the suture anchor 10 includes opposed cut-outs or openings
   formed on opposed sides of the suture-engaging member 14 and a distal cut-out that
   defines the suture-seating groove 19 for seating a suture(s). The cut-out 16 can also
   define opposed distal arms 1 la, 11 b on the suture anchor 10 that are spaced a
   distance apart from one another and that have the suture-engaging member 14
30 extending therebetween.
   A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the particular location and
   3452224vl

                                               - 13
   configuration of the cut-out 16 can define the particular location and configuration of
   the suture-engaging member 14, as the cut-out 16 can be formed during
   manufacturing to create the suture-engaging member 14. Alternatively, the
   particular location and configuration of the opposed arms l la, 1Ib can define the
 5 particular location and configuration of the cut-out 16, as the shape and size of the
   arms l la, 1Ib defines the shape and size of the cut-out 16. The location of the
   suture-engaging member 14 relative to the cut-out 16 and/or arms 1 la, 1lb will also
   define the configuration of the distal end of the suture anchor 10, and whether the
   suture anchor 10 includes a distal groove 19 for seating a suture(s).
10 A person skilled in the art will also appreciate that the suture-engaging member 14
   can have a variety of other configurations, and that it can be fixed or movable, e.g.,
   rotatable and/or slidable.    Various exemplary configurations are disclosed herein, and
   in more detail in the commonly-owned U.S. applications previously referenced
   herein.
15 As indicated above, while FIGS. 1A-i D illustrate a second thread 18b having a
   length that is less than a length of the first thread 18a, in other embodiments the first
   and second threads can have the same length. FIGS. 2A-2B illustrate another
   embodiment of a suture anchor 30 having first and second threads 28a, 28b that have
   the same length. In particular, the first and second threads 28a, 28b originate at the
20 proximal end 20a and they both terminate at a location just proximal to the suture
   engaging member 24, or to the cut-out 26 formed in the body. The first and second
   threads 28a, 28b thus extend along about 75% of the length of the suture anchor 20.
   Such a configuration is particularly advantageous as the dual threads will improve
   fixation, especially within the cancellous bone which is engaged by the proximal
25 portion 22a of the anchor. The distal portion 22b of the anchor 20 can be non
   threaded, and can have the same configuration as previously discussed with respect
   to FIGS. lA-ID, or it can have a variety of other configurations as discussed herein
   or known in the art.
   In yet another embodiment, shown in FIGS. 3A-3D, the suture anchor 30 can include
30 a pointed tip 33 to facilitate penetration into bone. As shown, the distal tip 33 can
   3452224vl

                                              - 14
   have a solid, pointed configuration, and it can form the distal-most end of the suture
   anchor 30. The suture-engaging member 34 can thus be positioned proximal to the
   distal tip 33, and the cut-out 36 can be in the form of a cavity extending through
   opposed walls of the suture anchor 30, as best shown in FIGS. 3C and 3D. The
 5 remainder of the suture anchor 30 can be similar to the anchor previously discussed
   with respect to FIGS. 1A- ID. In general, the suture anchor 30 can include a first
   thread 38a that extends from the proximal end 30a to a position just proximal to the
   cut-out 36, and a second thread 38b that is disposed between the first thread 38a and
   that extends from the proximal end 30a and terminates proximal to the first thread
10 38a.
   Alternatively, the threads can extend along the entire length of the suture anchor.
   FIGS. 4A-4D illustrate another embodiment of a suture anchor 40 having a first
   thread 48a that extends along the entire length from the proximal end 40a to the
   distal end 40b. The first thread 48a thus extends toward and can run-out at the
15 pointed tip 43. The second thread 48b can extend along only a proximal portion of
   the anchor 40, as shown in FIGS. 4A-4D, or it can alternatively likewise extend
   along the entire length. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the particular
   configurations of the threads, as well as the configuration of the distal tip, can vary
   and virtually and combination of features can be combined to form an anchor as may
20 be desired. As further shown in FIGS. 4A-4D, in order to allow the thread 48a to
   extend along the distal-most portion, ie., to extend distally beyond the cut-out 46 and
   suture engaging member 44, the cut-out 46 and suture-engaging member 44 can be
   located more toward the mid-portion of the anchor. As a result, the cut-out 46
   extends through the threads. As is also shown in FIGS. 4A-4D, the portion of the
25 body located distal to the cut-out 46 can have a root or minor diameter dr that is less
   than the root or minor diameter dR of the remaining proximal portion of the anchor.
   This will form a smaller tip to facilitate impaction into bone.
   FIGS. 5A and 5B illustrate another embodiment of a suture anchor 50. In this
   embodiment, the suture anchor 50 is similar to anchor 40, except that the suture
30 engaging member 54 is scalloped to facilitate sliding movement of the sutures while
   preventing entanglement. While the number of scallops can vary depending on the
   3452224vl

                                              - 15
   number of sutures used with the anchor, in the illustrated embodiment the suture
   engaging member 54 includes two scallops that defines three suture-seating grooves
   55a, 55b, 55c. Thus, three sutures can be positioned around the suture-engaging
   member 54, with each suture resting in a groove 55a, 55b, 55c. Each suture can thus
 5 be individually slid relative to the suture-engaging member 54 without causing
   movement of an adjacent suture. The scallops can also help maintain alignment of
   the sutures as they extend through the anchor 50, thereby preventing entanglement.
   A person skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of other techniques can be
   used to help maintain alignment of the sutures, prevent entanglement, and/or
10 facilitate sliding movement. For example, the suture-engaging member can include
   one or more pathways formed therethrough, with each pathway being configured to
   receive a suture.
   As previously indicated, in use the various suture anchors disclosed herein can be
   configured to receive one or more sutures, and to receive a driver for driving the
15 anchor into bone to thereby anchor the suture to bone. While various drivers can be
   used, FIGS. 6 and 7 illustrate two exemplary embodiments of drivers that are
   particularly configured for use with the suture anchors disclosed herein. Referring
   first to FIG. 6, as shown the driver 60 has a generally elongate shaft with a drive tip
   62 formed on a distal end thereof The drive tip 62 has a shape and size that
20 corresponds to the shape and size of the suture anchor. In particular, in the illustrated
   embodiment the drive tip 62 has a hexagonal cross-sectional shape that allows the tip
   62 to be disposed within and to engage a hexagonal lumen formed in a suture anchor,
   such as anchor 10 of FIGS. 1A-ID. The length of the drive tip 62 can vary, but
   preferably the length is maximized to provide enhanced surface contact between the
25 drive tip 62 and the suture anchor. In an exemplary embodiment, the drive tip 62 has
   a length that is configured such that the drive tip 62 can extend from the proximal
   end of the suture anchor and can terminate just proximal to the suture-engaging
   member. As further shown in FIG. 6, the drive tip 62 can also include one or more
   suture-seating grooves 64 formed therein and configured to seat the terminal ends of
30 the suture so as to prevent engagement of the suture between the drive tip 62 and the
   suture anchor. While FIG. 6 illustrates two opposing suture-seating grooves 64, the
   drive tip 62 can include any number of grooves, and the shape and size of each
   3452224vl

                                              - 16
   groove can vary depending on the quantity of sutures used with the suture anchor. In
   another embodiment, shown in FIG. 7, the driver 70 can be cannulated to allow the
   sutures to extend through the inner lumen 74 of the drive tip 72 and through the
   elongate shaft of the driver, rather than along an external surface of the drive tip 72.
 5 A person skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of other techniques can be
   used to facilitate engagement between a driver and a suture, and to allow free
   passage of one or more sutures therebetween.
   The particular quantity of sutures used with a suture anchor and driver can depend on
   the size of the suture anchor and the driver, and in particular on the diameter of the
10 inner lumen of the suture anchor and the size of the suture-engaging groove formed
   in the driver (for driver 60) or the diameter of the lumen in the driver (for driver 70).
   For example, where the suture anchor has a relatively small inner lumen, the driver
   will necessarily have a relatively small diameter and thus small suture-engaging
   grooves (for driver 60) or a small inner lumen (for driver 70). It may therefore only
15 be possible to use a single suture that is positioned around the suture-engaging
   member on the suture anchor, and that has two trailing ends extending through the
   suture-receiving grooves in the driver (for driver 60) or through the inner lumen in
   the driver (for driver 70). While a single suture can be sufficient to anchor tissue to
   bone, it is preferred to use more than one, and more preferably two or three sutures.
20 Thus, rather than increasing a size of the suture anchor and/or the driver, the present
   invention provides various exemplary techniques for utilizing two sutures with a
   suture anchor and driver that are configured to seat only one suture. This is
   particularly advantageous as the suture anchor can be sized to be fully disposed
   within cortical bone, while the diameter of the inner lumen of the suture anchor and
25 of the distal tip of the driver are maximized to increase the torque failure rating. This
   also enables the anchor to be made from a broad range of materials, including brittle
   or weaker materials such as those previously disclosed herein.
   The present invention also provides exemplary methods for anchoring tissue to bone.
   While a method is described in connection with attaching soft tissue to bone, the
30 methods and devices disclosed herein can be used in a variety of medical procedures
   for anchoring one structure to another. In general, a bore is formed in bone of a
   3452224vl

                                              - 17
   patient. The diameter of the bore is preferably slightly less than the largest outer
   diameter of the suture anchor, and the length of the bore is preferably the same as or
   slightly greater than a length of the suture anchor. The bore will extend fully through
   the cortical bone to allow the suture anchor to be fully engaged through the thickness
 5 of the cortical bone. The bore can also extend into the cancellous bone depending on
   the length of the suture anchor. One or more sutures can be coupled to the suture
   anchor using various techniques, including those disclosed in the aforementioned
   commonly-owned applications, and the distal tip of a driver can be inserted into the
   lumen in the suture anchor, for example as shown in FIG. 7. The trailing ends of the
10 suture(s) can extend externally along the driver or they can extend through an inner
   lumen of the driver. The driver can then be used to insert the suture anchor into the
   bone tunnel. For example, where the suture anchor includes threads formed thereon,
   the driver can be rotated to thread the suture anchor into the bone hole. The threads
   will engage the bone hole thereby preventing removal of the suture anchor. Where
15 the suture anchor includes dual threads, the second thread will provide additional
   fixation within the bone. By way of non-limiting example, FIG. 8 illustrates the
   suture anchor 10 of FIGS. 1A-IC implanted in bone B, and having three sutures 80a,
   80b, 80c coupled thereto. As shown, the sutures 80a-80c extend around the suture
   engaging member 14 and they extend through the lumen of the anchor 10 and
20 through a lumen in the driver 70, thus allowing the driver 70 to drive the suture 10
   into bone without interference from the sutures 80a-80c. In other embodiments, the
   driver can be used to tap the bone anchor into the bone hole, and an interference fit,
   compression fit, and/or surface features, such as ribs or protrusions, formed on the
   suture anchor can be used to retain the suture anchor within the bone hole. The
25 driver can also optionally be used to impact a threaded suture anchor into the bone
   hole. The threads can allow for later removal of the suture anchor.
   Once the bone anchor is properly anchored within the bone hole, various materials,
   such as those previously discussed herein, can be introduced through the driver and
   into or around the suture anchor. The driver can be removed, and the trailing ends of
30 the suture(s) can then be used to anchor soft tissue to the bone. For example, one or
   both trailing ends of the suture(s) can be attached to a needle to allow the needle to
   be used to thread the suture through tissue to be anchor to the bone. The suture(s)
   3452224vl

                                              - 18
   can be threaded through tissue either prior to or after insertion of the suture anchor
   into bone. Once the soft tissue is approximated toward the bone, the trailing ends of
   the suture(s) can be secured together and the excess trimmed as is typical in these
   situations to complete the surgery. Once implanted, the cut-out extending into the
 5 inner lumen can allow materials, such as bone-growth promoting materials, sealants,
   adhesives, etc., to be introduced therein to facilitate fixation.
   One skilled in the art will appreciate further features and advantages of the invention
   based on the above-described embodiments. Accordingly, the invention is not to be
   limited by what has been particularly shown and described, except as indicated by
10 the appended claims. All publications and references cited herein are expressly
   incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
   This application is a divisional application from Australian Application <removed-apn>
   which is a divisional of Australian Application 2014215944, which is a divisional of
15 2008213560. The full disclosure of <removed-apn>, 2014215944 and 2008213560, are
   incorporated herein by reference.
   Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
   requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
20 "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
   group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group
   of integers or steps.
   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as,
25 an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
   common general knowledge.
   3452224vl

                                                - 19
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1.       A method for anchoring suture to bone, including:
             coupling a suture to a suture anchor such that the suture extends around a
   suture-engaging member formed in a distal portion of the suture anchor and trailing
 5 ends of the suture extend through an inner lumen extending through the suture
   anchor and out of a proximal end of the suture anchor;
             inserting a driver into the proximal end of the suture anchor; and
             rotating the driver to thread the suture anchor into a bone hole to anchor the
   suture to the bone, the suture anchor including first and second threads that are
10 spaced axially apart from one another and that have the same pitch such that the first
   and second threads simultaneously cut independent paths through bone;
             wherein the suture anchor includes an opening formed in a sidewall thereof
   such that fluid can flow through the opening and into the inner lumen of the suture
   anchor.
15 2.        The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second threads are formed on at
   least the proximal portion of the suture anchor such that the first and second threads
   engage cortical bone.
   3.        The method of claim 1, wherein the first thread extends along a distal portion
   of the suture anchor such that the first thread engages cortical and cancellous bone.
20 4.        The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second threads extend from the
   proximal end to the distal end of the suture anchor such that the first and second
   threads engage cortical and cancellous bone.
   5.        The method of claim 1, wherein three sutures are coupled to the suture anchor
   such that the three suture extends around a suture-engaging member formed in a
25 distal portion of the suture anchor and trailing ends of the suture extend through an
   inner lumen extending through the suture anchor and out of a proximal end of the
   suture anchor.
   6.        The method of claim 1, further including securing tissue to the bone using the
   suture.
   3452224vl

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
