                                           ABSTRACT
A radio frequency coil is disclosed that is suitable for use with a magnetic resonance imaging
apparatus. The radio frequency coil comprises first and second conductive loops connected
electrically to each other by a plurality of conductive rungs.         The conductive rungs each
include a section that is relatively thin that will result in less attenuation to a radiation beam
than other thicker sections of the rungs. Insulating regions are also disposed in areas of the
radio frequency coil that are bound by adjacent rungs and the conductive loops. Portions of
the insulating regions can be configured to provide a substantially similar amount of
attenuation to the radiation beam as the relatively thin sections of the conductive rungs.

WO 2014/159597                                      PCT/US2014/024354
                              1/6
                                 Q)
               Q)/
                             7/               'N
                    CC)
                     -~  ~. - --Nell
                                            - -  -    K
                   .......             i...
                                          ~     ~LL
                        .....K........

                      RADIO FREQUENCY TRANSMIT COIL FOR
                     MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING SYSTEM
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]    The present application claims priority to U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 13/796,784, filed
March 12, 2013, entitled "Radio Frequency Transmit Coil for Magnetic Resonance Imaging
System," the filing date and full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety.
                                         TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]    The present disclosure relates generally to radio frequency (RF) coils for use in a
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) system, including RF coils suitable for use with MRI
guided radiation therapy systems.
                                            BACKGROUND
[0003]    Generally, in an MRI system, a substantially uniform main magnetic field, Bo, is
created to cover the entire region of the subject being imaged. The main magnetic field
aligns magnetic dipoles of protons within the main magnetic field. Thereafter, a transient RF
pulse is introduced that causes the proton dipoles to temporarily flip. Once the RF energy
from the RF pulse is removed, the dipoles flip back to their relaxed state and release the
energy absorbed from the RF pulse in the form of a photon having some predictable radio
frequency. The photons are captured and processed to enable imaging.
[0004]    Generally, the transient RF pulse is transmitted by an RF coil. One type of RF coil
commonly used in MRI is known as the "birdcage coil." For example, respective examples of
birdcage coils are disclosed by U.S. Patent 4,680,548 to Edelstein et al., titled "Radio
Frequency Field Coil For NMR," the entire content of which is incorporated herein by
reference, and U.S. Patent Application Publication 2006/0033497 to Chmielewski et al., titled
"Degenerate Birdcage Coil and Transmit/Receive Apparatus and Method For Same," the
entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference. Typically, a birdcage coil is
cylindrical in shape and includes two conductive end loops or rings interconnected by an
even number of rungs or axial conductors that divide the two end rings into arcs or segments
defined therebetween. This construction gives this type of RF coil the appearance of a
birdcage, and hence the name "birdcage coil."
                                                 1

[0005]    Notwithstanding the birdcage coils discussed above, there remains a desire for
further improvements. In particular, when MRI technology is applied to the field of
radiotherapy, traditional birdcage coils are not ideally suited for accommodating a
radiotherapy system. U.S. Patent 7,907,987 to Dempsey, titled "System for delivering
conformal radiation therapy while simultaneously imaging soft tissue," the entire content of
which is incorporated herein by reference, discloses an example of such an MRI guided
radiotherapy system.
                                            SUMMARY
[0006]    Disclosed herein are systems and methods for radio frequency coils for use in a
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) system, including RF coils suitable for use with MRI
guided radiation therapy systems, some embodiments of which may include a first conductive
loop, a second conductive loop and a conductive rung between the first and second
conductive loops that may be electrically connected to the first and second conductive loops,
wherein the conductive rung may include first and second conductive rung sections and
wherein the second conductive rung section may have a thickness substantially thinner than
at least one of a thickness of the first conductive loop, a thickness of the second conductive
loop, and a thickness of the first conductive rung section.
[0007]    In some embodiments, the second conductive rung section may have a thickness
that is about 5% to about 75% of the thickness of the at least one of the first conductive loop,
the second conductive loop, and the first conductive rung section. In other embodiments, the
second conductive rung section may have a thickness that is about 10% to about 50% of the
thickness of the at least one of the first conductive loop, the second conductive loop, and the
first conductive rung section. In still further embodiments, the second conductive rung
section may have a thickness that is about 15% to about 30% of the thickness of the at least
one of the first conductive loop, the second conductive loop, and the first conductive rung
section. The second conductive rung may also have a section has a thickness that is about
20% of the thickness of the at least one of the first conductive loop, the second conductive
loop, and the first conductive rung section.
[0008]    In certain embodiments, the conductive rung may further include a third conductive
rung section, the second conductive rung section being disposed between the first and third
conductive rung sections and where the second conductive rung section may be substantially
thinner than the first and third conductive rung sections. In some embodiments, at least one
                                                  2

of the first conductive loop, the second conductive loop, and the conductive rung may include
at least one of copper, silver, and aluminum or may include multiple layers of conductive
materials.
[0009]     In some embodiments, the radiofrequency coil may include a plurality of conductive
rungs electrically connected to the first and second conductive loops. It may also include an
insulating region disposed between adjacent conductive rungs and between the first and
second conductive loops and at least a portion of the insulating region may have a thickness
selected so that the portion of the insulating region and the second conductive rung section
both provide substantially the same amount of attenuation to a radiation beam. In some
embodiments, the insulating region may be a polyimide.
[0010]     In further embodiments the radio frequency coils may also include a printed circuit
board (PCB) substrate and the conductive rung may include a layer of conductive material
formed on a first side of the PCB substrate. The coil may also include an insulating region
disposed adjacent to the conductive rung and between the first and second conductive loops,
where the insulating region may include a first insulating layer formed on the first side of the
PCB substrate and a second insulating layer formed on a second side of the PCB substrate.
[0011]     The radio frequency coil may also include PIN diode circuitry located adjacent the
first and third conductive rung sections, and the magnetic resonance imaging apparatus may
have a field strength less than 1.OT.
[0012]     These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the present disclosure will
become better understood with reference to the following description and claims.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0013]     Features, aspects, and embodiments are described in conjunction with the attached
drawings, in which:
[0014]     Figure 1 shows a perspective view of an MRI system;
[0015]     Figure 2 shows a simplified cross-sectional view of the MRI system shown in
Figure 1;
[0016]     Figure 3A shows a perspective view of an RF coil according to the present
disclosure;
                                                 3

[0017]    Figure 3B shows a plan view of the RF coil shown in Figure 3A where the RF coil
is unrolled;
[0018]    Figure 4 shows a side view of an embodiment of a conductive rung that can be used
with the RF coil shown in Figures 3A and 3B;
[0019]    Figure 5 shows a cross-sectional view of a portion of the RF coil taken along section
line V-V in Figure 3B; and
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0020]    The following description illustrates embodiments by way of example and not by
way of limitation. All numbers disclosed herein are approximate values unless stated
otherwise, regardless whether the word "about" or "approximately" is used in connection
therewith. Whenever a numerical range with a lower limit and an upper limit is disclosed, any
number falling within the range is specifically and expressly disclosed.
[0021]    The RF coil assembly concepts of the present disclosure may be used with any type
of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) system. It is particularly well suited for use with a
split solenoid or horizontal "open" MRI that includes a gap between two horizontal MRI
magnet halves. The RF coil assemblies disclosed herein are further well suited for use with a
horizontal open MRI that is used with an additional instrument being operated within its gap.
Figure 1 depicts such an arrangement with a horizontal open MRI 10 having first and second
main magnet housings 11 a and 11 b separated by a gap region 12. An instrument 14 is
mounted in the gap region 12 on a gantry 16. Also depicted are a patient 18 and patient
couch 20. In some embodiments, the gantry 16 can be used to reposition the instrument 14
about the patient 18 (i.e., about the Z-axis shown in Figure 1).
[0022]    The embodiment of Figure 1 can include elements of a system of the assignee of the
current application, ViewRay, Incorporated, described in part in U.S. Patent 7,907,987 to
Dempsey, titled "System for Delivering Conformal Radiation Therapy while Simultaneously
Imaging Soft Tissue" (hereafter "Dempsey '987"), which is hereby incorporated by reference.
For example, the instrument 14 can comprise a radiation therapy device and associated multi
leaf collimator (MLC), which, in combination with a fast-imaging horizontal open MRI,
allows for improved radiation therapy that can account for a target's location during radiation
treatment, as discussed in Dempsey '987. While only a single assembly is shown as the
instrument 14 in Figure 1, some embodiments can include multiple assemblies associated
                                                4

with instrument 14, e.g., multiple radiation emitters and/or MLC devices. For example, some
embodiments may include three radiation head assemblies (not shown in Figure 1) mounted
in gap 12, distributed about the Z-axis, and rotatable about the Z-axis on the gantry 16.
While some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein are described with respect to the
system disclosed by Dempsey '987, such aspects are not required for use with the disclosed
RF coil assembly. It is contemplated that the RF coil assembly disclosed herein may be used
in any type of MRI, with or without the use of an associated instrument 14. Furthermore, for
systems utilizing an instrument 14, such instruments are not limited to radiation therapy
devices such as radiation sources or linear particle accelerators (LINACs), but can include
any type of instrument used with an MRI.
[0023]    Figure 2 is diagrammatic cross-section of the system shown in Figure 1. The
embodiment of Figure 2 depicts the horizontal open MRI 10 including a pair of main magnets
22a and 22b, separated by the gap 12. The MRI 10 can be used to image a region of interest
24 above the patient couch 20, while the instrument 14 can be used to emit radiation 15 for
simultaneously performing some form of treatment to the patient within the region of interest
24. The MRI 10 also includes an RF transmit coil assembly 100 that extends across the gap
12. Embodiments of the RF coil assembly 100 are described in greater detail below. The MRI
10 can include additional conventional components not shown, for example, gradient coils
and potentially one or more shim coils. The coordinate system used in the figures and
throughout this disclosure refers to the longitudinal axis through the MRI bore as the Z-axis.
The X-axis extends perpendicular to the Z-axis and from side to side of the MRI 10; the Y
axis extends perpendicular to the Z-axis and from the bottom to the top of MRI 10.
[0024]    As shown in Figure 2, the RF coil assembly 100 extends between the instrument 14
and the region of interest 24. So, for example, in embodiments where the instrument 14
comprises a radiation emitting device such as those used with a radiation therapy system, a
portion of the RF coil assembly will be in the path of radiation 15 that is being directed from
the instrument 14 towards the patient at the region of interest 24. Simply inserting a
conventional RF coil assembly in such a position poses problems, both for MRI operation
and for operation of the radiation therapy device as well as for other systems that could be
implemented as the instrument 14. For example, a conventional RF transmit coil includes
structure that would interfere with a radiation therapy beam passing therethrough from the
instrument 14, potentially attenuating the beam to the point where the RF coil degrades the
quality of the treatment to the point of it being clinically unacceptable. Thus, an RF coil is
                                                 5

disclosed herein that allows for proper MRI imaging without interfering with the operation of
an instrument 14. For example, embodiments of the RF coil disclosed herein can allow for
proper MRI imaging without causing an undesirable level of attenuation to a radiation beam
being emitted from instrument 14 through a portion of the RF coil.
[0025]     Figure 3A shows an embodiment of such an RF coil, which is designated as RF coil
100. Figure 3B shows a plan view of RF coil 100 opened and laid flat, i.e., on a planar
surface. Figure 3A shows the configuration of RF coil 100 as installed in MRI system 10.
When installed, the RF coil 100 can define an inner space having a generally cylindrical
shape, the length of which extends parallel to the Z axis of the MRI system 10 as shown in
Figure 3A.
[0026]     The RF coil 100 comprises a first conductive loop 110 and a second conductive
loop 120, both of which are coaxial with the Z-axis. The first and second conductive loops
110 and 120 are electrically connected to each other via a plurality of conductive rungs 150,
each of which extend at least somewhat parallel to the Z-axis between the first and second
conductive loops 110 and 120.
[0027]     Although the RF coil 100 is shown in Figures 3A and 3B as having sixteen
conductive rungs 150, alternative embodiments of the RF coil 100 can have other numbers of
rungs. For example, exemplary embodiments of the RF coil 100 can include numbers of
conductive rungs 150 equal to any multiple of four. However, embodiments that include
fewer than sixteen conductive rungs 150 may have less than desirable RF emission
uniformity.
[0028]     Each of the plurality of conductive rungs 150 comprises a first end section 151a, a
middle section 152, and a second end section 151b, disposed in series with each other
between the first conductive loop 110 and the second conductive loop 120. The first end
section 15 1a is electrically connected to the first conductive loop 110. The second end section
15 lb is electrically connected to the second conductive loop 120. The middle section 152 is
electrically connected to the first end section 15 la and to the second end section 15 lb. Thus,
an electrical current can flow between the first conductive loop 110 and the second
conductive loop 120 through the first end section 15 1a, the middle section 152, and the
second end section 15 1b of the conductive rung 150.
                                                  6

[0029]     Insulating regions 180 are defined by respective pairs of adjacent rungs 150 and the
first and second conductive loops 110 and 120. The insulating regions 180 may comprise
electrically insulating materials as discussed in more detail below.
[0030]     In one embodiment of the disclosed systems, PIN diode decoupling circuitry is
located outside the path of the radiation beam, adjacent first end section 151 a and second end
section 15 lb. This embodiment is especially effective in conjunction with low field MRI (for
example, less than a 1.0 T field strength). In one implementation, a coax cable is used to
provide the off-center location of the PIN diode decoupling. Similar more efficient methods
can also be implemented such as utilizing twisted pairs or wide parallel conductors with self
canceling field profiles. The tuning capacitors may be placed in the rung and ring gaps
outside of the radiation beam, and may be reduced to compensate for increased inductance
due to the conductor length change.
[0031]     Figure 4 shows a block diagram illustrating a generalized side view of conductive
portions of an exemplary conductive rung 150. Note that Figure 4 does not show insulating
portions of the conductive rung 150 so that the conductive regions of the conductive rung 150
can be more clearly illustrated. Also, the diagram shown in Figure 4 is not necessarily drawn
to scale, and is not intended to be limiting as to the exact shapes of the conductive regions of
the conductive rung 150. Rather, Figure 4 is merely provided to illustrate how the conductive
rung 150 can include relatively thinner and thicker conductive portions. Thus, as shown in
Figure 4, the conductive rungs 150 include a relatively thin conducting portion, i.e., at least
some conductive portion of each conductive rung 150 can have a thickness that is
substantially thinner than a thickness (or thicknesses) of other conductive portions of the
conductive rung 150. More specifically, the middle section 152 includes a conductive portion
that is substantially thinner than conductive portions of the first and second end sections 151 a
and 15 lb. Also, in such embodiments, the conductive portion of the middle section 152 can
be substantially thinner than conductive portions of the first and second conductive loops 110
and 120.
[0032]      The conductive portion of the middle section 152 can have a thickness that is about
5% to about 75% of the thickness of the conductive portions of the first and second end
sections 15 1a and 15 1b. In some embodiments, the conductive portion of the middle section
152 can have a thickness that is about 10% to about 50% of the thickness of conductive
portions of the first and second end sections 15 1a and 15 1b. In some embodiments, the
conductive portion of the middle section 152 can have a thickness that is about 15% to about
                                                  7

30% of the thickness of conductive portions of the first and second end sections 15 1a and
 151b. In some embodiments, the conductive portion of the middle section 152 can have a
thickness that is about 20% of the thickness of conductive portions of the first and second end
sections 151a and 151 .
100331     The conductive portions of the first conductive loop 110, the second conductive
loop 120, and the plurality of conductive rungs 150 can comprise one or more of many
different conductive materials known to be suitable for the construction of MRI RF coils. For
example, conductive portions of the conductive loops 110 and 120 and the conductive rungs
 150 can comprise one or more of copper, silver, and/or aluminum. Also, in some
embodiments, one or more of the first conductive loop 110, the second conductive loop 120,
and the conductive rungs 150 can be formed of laminated layers, which can include one or
more layers of conductive materials, such as copper, silver, and/or aluminum.
100341     Some embodiments can include conductive portions having a thickness that yields
minimal loss. For example, a desirable thickness of copper that would yield minimal loss is
about 10 skin depths, where a skin depth can be calculated according to the following
expression:
         SkinDepth =- , =     Q 2p
         where
         p = bulk resiiviey (ohm - meders)
         f= frequency (Hertz)
            = permeabihIyconstant(Henrieslmeter) = 4rx 10
         p, = relativepermeabihIy(usiually      1)
Thus, for example, at 147MHz, with copper being the conductive material, 10 skin depths
would be approximately equal to 0.172mm. However, a layer of copper having a thickness of
0.172mm would cause an amount of attenuation to radiation beam 15 that is approximately
equivalent to about 153mm of water (Calculation: 0.172mm * 8.9 (density of copper/density
of water)= 1.53mm), which is an undesirable amount of attenuation. But by reducing the
copper thickness in path of the radiation beam I5 by a significant factor, the attenuation can
be reduced to a satisfactory level. For example, if the thickness of the copper in the path of
radiation beam I5 is reduced by a factor of five, the attenuation caused by the copper can be
reduced to an amount approximately equivalent to about 03mm of water (Calculation:
0.03302mm * 8.9 = 0.3mm).
                                                 8

[0035]    Thus, referring back to Figure 2, preferably the relatively thinner middle section 152
is provided in the path of radiation 15 emitted from the instrument 14 during operation. One
advantage of constructing the middle sections 152 of the rungs 150 to have a relatively
thinner conductor is that the thinner conductor causes less attenuation to the radiation 15 than
a thicker conductor, such as the thicker conductors used to form the first and second end
sections 15 la and 15 lb. The radiation 15 can thus penetrate the middle section 152 of the RF
coil 100, reach the patient 18, and still be suitable for exerting the desired level of radiation
therapy on the region of interest 24 of the patient 18.
[0036]    As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, reducing the thickness of the
conductive portions of the rungs of a conventional birdcage-style RF coil has the effect of
raising the RF resistance of the rungs. An important performance factor of RF coils is the
quality factor (Q-factor) of the coil, which should be maximized. For a birdcage-style RF coil,
the Q-factor is inversely proportional to the RF resistance of the coil. Thus, thinning the
rungs of a conventional RF coil in order to avoid attenuating a radiation beam 15 has the
undesirable effect of increasing the RF resistance of the coil and therefore reducing the     Q
factor of the coil.
[0037]    The present disclosure provides a solution to this problem by providing rungs 150
that are only partially thinned. The RF coil described herein includes the relatively thin
middle sections 152 in combination with relatively thick rung end sections 15 1a and 15 1b
and conductive loops 110 and 120. Aspects of the present disclosure are based on an
observation that the amount of RF current in the conductive loops 110 and 120 will be
significantly higher than the amount of RF current in each of the rungs 150. For example, the
amount of RF current in the conductive loops 110 and 120 may be four to five times higher
than the amount of RF current in each of the rungs 150. Therefore, the increased RF
resistance caused by thinning portions of the rungs 150 can be significantly compensated for
by reducing the RF resistance of the conductive loops 110 and 120, as well as by reducing the
RF resistance of significant portions of the rungs 150 (i.e., the rung end sections 151 a and
15 1b). The result is an acceptably small amount of degradation to the Q-factor or
performance of the RF coil 100.
[0038]    Referring again to Figure 3B, in some embodiments, the RF coil 100 can be
constructed using the thin printed circuit board (PCB) technology. In such embodiments,
multiple thicknesses of conductive layers can be applied to one or both sides of a PCB 190
(not shown in Figure 3A for clarity purposes). For embodiments where conductive layers are
                                                  9

applied to both sides of PCB 190, vias can be used to electrically connect the conductive
layers that are located on opposing sides of the PCB 190. In some embodiments, for example,
the conductive portions of the middle sections 152 of the rungs 150 can be located on one
side (top) of the PCB 190, and the end sections 15la and 151b, the first end loop 110, and the
second end loop 120 can all be located on the other side (bottom) of the PCB 190. In such
embodiments, vias can be used to electrically connect the middle sections 152 to adjacent end
sections 151a and 151b through the PCB 190.
[0039]    The RF coil 100 can be configured as a band-pass, low-pass, or high-pass coil, for
example by including circuit elements, such as capacitors, in the rungs 150 and/or insulating
regions 180 according to known coil design and tuning methods. Also, slots in the conductive
layers can be provided for reducing eddy currents.
[0040]    While the RF coil 100 has been described as being constructed using PCB
technology, alternative embodiments of the RF coil 100 can include alternative methods of
construction that do not involve PCB technology. For example, thin strips of conductive
material can be applied to a former made of insulating material in order to construct the
middle sections 152 of the rungs 150. The end loops 110 and 120, as well as the end sections
151 a and 15 lb of the rungs 150, can be constructed of thicker conductive materials, layers, or
groups of layers, that can be soldered or otherwise connected to the thin conductive strips of
the middle sections 152 of the rungs 150. In some embodiments, desired thicknesses of the
conductive materials can be achieved by selectively thickening the conductive materials
using known plating processes or other known construction techniques.
[0041]    The thickness of the insulating regions 180 can also vary, for example in order to
allow for uniform attenuation of radiation beam 15. The insulating regions 180 can be formed
of single or multiple layers of insulating materials, which can include one or more different
insulating materials, such as polyimide film (e.g., KAPTON@ polyimide film, available from
DuPont, Wilmington, DE).
[0042]    Figure 5 shows an exemplary cross-sectional view taken along section lines V-V
shown in Figure 3B. The section shown in Figure 5 illustrates portions of the RF coil 100 that
could be positioned in the path of the radiation beam 15 depending on the position of the
instrument 14 relative to the RF coil 100. As shown in Figure 5, the RF coil 100 includes a
non-conductive (insulating) PCB substrate 190 having a thickness TI. Insulating layers 192a
and 192b having a thickness T2 are formed on the PCB substrate 190 in the insulating regions
                                                10

180. A conducting layer 194 having a thickness T3 is formed on the PCB substrate 190 in the
rung 150 region. Also, additional insulating layers 196a and 196b having a thickness T4 are
formed on an opposing side of the PCB substrate 190 in the insulating regions 180. Because
the material of conductive layer 194 causes greater radiation attenuation than the substrate
and insulating materials, the total thickness Ti+T2+T3 of the substrate 190 and insulating
layers 192 and 196 can be greater than the thickness T1+T3 of the substrate 190 and
conductive layer 194 in order to provide for uniform attenuation to the radiation beam 15. For
example, in some embodiments, the PCB substrate 190 can have a thickness TI        = 0.0762mm,
the insulating layers 192a and 192b can each have a thickness T2   = 0.0762mm, the
conducting layer 194 can have a thickness T3    =  0.03302mm, and the insulating layers 196a
and 196b can each have a thickness T4     = 0.127mm. In such embodiments, the PCB substrate
190, and the insulating layers 192 and 196 can be formed of KAPTON@ polyimide film, and
the conducting layer 194 can be formed of copper. Other materials not shown in Figure 5 that
may be included in an RF coil 100, such as adhesives that may be used for securing the layers
192, 194, and 196 to the substrate 190, can be taken into consideration when determining
appropriate thicknesses of the layers 192 and 196 for providing substantially the same
attenuation as the conducting layer 194.
[0043]     While each of the layers 192, 194, and 196 is shown as a single layer, alternatively
the blocks 192, 194, and/or 196 can be formed of one or more actual layers of material. Also,
one or more of the layers 192, 194, and/or 196 can include one or more different materials.
[0044]     Although the illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure have been described
herein with reference to the accompanying drawings and examples, it is to be understood that
the disclosure is not limited to those precise embodiments, and various other changes and
modifications may be affected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the
scope of spirit of the disclosure. All such changes and modifications are intended to be
included within the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.
[0045]     The subject matter described herein can be embodied in systems, apparatus,
methods, and/or articles depending on the desired configuration. The implementations set
forth in the foregoing description do not represent all implementations consistent with the
subject matter described herein. Instead, they are merely some examples consistent with
aspects related to the described subject matter. While various implementations in accordance
with the disclosed principles have been described above, it should be understood that they
have been presented by way of example only, and are not limiting. Thus, the breadth and
                                                11

scope of the invention(s) should not be limited by any of the above-described exemplary
implementations, but should be defined only in accordance with the claims and their
equivalents issuing from this disclosure. The present disclosure contemplates that the
calculations disclosed in the implementations herein may be performed in a number of ways,
applying the same concepts taught herein, and that such calculations are equivalent to the
implementations disclosed. Furthermore, the above described advantages are not intended to
limit the application of any issued claims to processes and structures accomplishing any or all
of the advantages.
[0046]    Additionally, section headings shall not limit or characterize the invention(s) set out
in any claims that may issue from this disclosure. Specifically, and by way of example,
although the headings refer to a "Technical Field," such claims should not be limited by the
language chosen under this heading to describe the so-called technical field. Further, the
description of a technology in the "Background" is not to be construed as an admission that
technology is prior art to any invention(s) in this disclosure. Neither is the "Summary" to be
considered as a characterization of the invention(s) set forth in issued claims. Furthermore,
any reference to this disclosure in general or use of the word "invention" in the singular is not
intended to imply any limitation on the scope of the claims set forth below. Multiple
inventions may be set forth according to the limitations of the multiple claims issuing from
this disclosure, and such claims accordingly define the invention(s), and their equivalents,
that are protected thereby.
[0047]    Although a few variations have been described in detail above, other modifications
or additions are possible. In particular, further features and/or variations can be provided in
addition to those set forth herein. For example, the implementations described above can be
directed to various combinations and subcombinations of the disclosed features and/or
combinations and subcombinations of several further features disclosed above. In addition,
the logic flows depicted in the accompanying figures and/or described herein do not
necessarily require the particular order shown, or sequential order, to achieve desirable results.
[0048]    In the descriptions above and in the claims, phrases such as "at least one of' or "one
or more of" may occur followed by a conjunctive list of elements or features. The term
"and/or" may also occur in a list of two or more elements or features. Unless otherwise
implicitly or explicitly contradicted by the context in which it used, such a phrase is intended
to mean any of the listed elements or features individually or any of the recited elements or
features in combination with any of the other recited elements or features. For example, the
                                                 12

phrases "at least one of A and B;" "one or more of A and B;" and "A and/or B" are each
intended to mean "A alone, B alone, or A and B together." A similar interpretation is also
intended for lists including three or more items. For example, the phrases "at least one of A,
B, and C;" "one or more of A, B, and C;" and "A, B, and/or C" are each intended to mean "A
alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, or A and B
and C together."
[0049]    Use of the term "based on," above and in the claims is intended to mean, "based at
least in part on," such that an unrecited feature or element is also permissible.
                                                 13

CLAIMS
         1.       A radio frequency coil for use with a magnetic resonance imaging apparatus,
the radio frequency coil comprising:
         a first conductive loop;
         a second conductive loop; and
         at least one conductive rung disposed between the first and second conductive loops
and electrically connected to the first and second conductive loops, forming a cylindrical
volume shape,
         wherein the at least one conductive rung includes a first conductive rung section and a
second conductive rung section, and
         wherein the second conductive rung section has a thickness that is substantially
thinner than at least one of a thickness of the first conductive loop, a thickness of the second
conductive loop, and a thickness of the first conductive rung section, the second conductive
rung section configured to receive a radiation beam emitted from a radiation therapy device
penetrating from outside the cylindrical volume into the cylindrical volume.
         2.       The radio frequency coil of claim 1, wherein the second conductive rung
section has a thickness that is about 5% to about 75% of the thickness of the at least one of
the first conductive loop, the second conductive loop, and the first conductive rung section.
         3.       The radio frequency coil of claim 2, wherein the second conductive rung
section has a thickness that is about 10% to about 50% of the thickness of the at least one of
the first conductive loop, the second conductive loop, and the first conductive rung section.
         4.       The radio frequency coil of claim 3, wherein the second conductive rung
section has a thickness that is about 15% to about 30% of the thickness of the at least one of
the first conductive loop, the second conductive loop, and the first conductive rung section.
         5.       The radio frequency coil of claim 4, wherein the second conductive rung
section has a thickness that is about 20% of the thickness of the at least one of the first
conductive loop, the second conductive loop, and the first conductive rung section.
                                                14

        6.      The radio frequency coil of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the at least one
conductive rung further includes a third conductive rung section, the second conductive rung
section being disposed between the first and third conductive rung sections.
        7.      The radio frequency coil of claim 6, wherein the second conductive rung
section is substantially thinner than the first and third conductive rung sections.
         8.     The radio frequency coil of any of claims 6 to 7, further comprising PIN diode
circuitry located adjacent the first and third conductive rung sections.
        9.      The radio frequency coil of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein at least one of the
first conductive loop, the second conductive loop, and the at least one conductive rung
includes at least one of copper, silver, and aluminum.
         10.    The radio frequency coil of any of claims 1 to 9, wherein at least one of the
first conductive loop, the second conductive loop, and the at least one conductive rung
includes multiple layers of conductive materials.
         12.    The radio frequency coil of claim 11, further comprising an insulating region
disposed between adjacent conductive rungs and between the first and second conductive
loops.
         13.    The radio frequency coil of claim 12, wherein at least a portion of the
insulating region has a thickness that is selected such that the portion of the insulating region
and the second conductive rung section both provide substantially the same amount of
attenuation to a radiation beam.
         14.    The radio frequency coil of any of claims 12 to 13, wherein the insulating
region comprises polyimide.
         15.    The radio frequency coil of any of claims 1 to 14, further comprising a printed
circuit board (PCB) substrate,
        wherein the at least one conductive rung includes a layer of conductive material
formed on a first side of the PCB substrate.
                                                  15

         16.      The radio frequency coil of claim 15, further comprising an insulating region
disposed adjacent to the at least one conductive rung and between the first and second
conductive loops, wherein the insulating region comprises a first insulating layer formed on
the first side of the PCB substrate and a second insulating layer formed on a second side of
the PCB substrate.
         17.      The radio frequency coil of any of claims 1 to 16, wherein the magnetic
resonance imaging apparatus has a field strength less than 1.OT.
         18.      A radio frequency coil for use with a magnetic resonance imaging apparatus,
the radio frequency coil comprising:
         a first conductive loop;
         a second conductive loop; and
         at least one conductive rung disposed between the first and second conductive loops
and electrically connected to the first and second conductive loops,
         wherein the at least one conductive rung includes a first conductive rung section, a
second conductive rung section, and a third conductive rung section, the second conductive
rung section being disposed between the first and third conductive rung sections, and
         wherein the second conductive rung section has a thickness substantially less than a
thickness of the first conductive rung section and a thickness of the third conductive rung
section.
         19.      The radio frequency coil of claim 18, wherein the thickness of the second
conductive rung section is about 20% of the thickness of the at least one of the first
conductive loop, the second conductive loop, and the first conductive rung section.
         21.      The radio frequency coil of claim 20, further comprising PIN diode circuitry
located adjacent the first and third conductive rung sections.
         22.      The radio frequency coil of any of claims 18 to 21, wherein at least one of the
first conductive loop, the second conductive loop, and the at least one conductive rung
includes at least one of copper, silver, and aluminum.
                                                16

        23.     The radio frequency coil of any of claims 18 to 22, wherein at least one of the
first conductive loop, the second conductive loop, and the rung includes multiple layers of
conductive materials.
        25.     The radio frequency coil of claim 24, further comprising an insulating region
disposed between adjacent conductive rungs and between the first and second conductive
loops.
        26.     The radio frequency coil of claim 25, wherein at least a portion of the
insulating region has a thickness that is selected such that the portion of the insulating region
and the second conductive rung section both provide substantially the same amount of
attenuation to a radiation beam.
        27.     The radio frequency coil of any of claims 25 to 26, wherein the insulating
region comprises polyimide.
        28.     The radio frequency coil of any of claims 18 to 27, wherein the magnetic
resonance imaging apparatus has a field strength less than 1.OT.
        29.     A method comprising:
        performing a form of treatment on a subject positioned on within a magnetic
resonance imaging system, the performing comprising utilizing an instrument mounted
within a gap region between two horizontal magnet halves of the magnetic resonance
imaging system, the magnetic resonance imaging system comprising a radio frequency coil
that extends across the gap, the radio frequency coil being consistent with any previous
claim; and
        imaging a part of the subject with the magnetic resonance imaging system, the
imaging occurring concurrently with the performing of the form of treatment and without
degrading a level of quality of the form of treatment to a point of being clinically
unacceptable.
        30.     The radio frequency coil of claim 1, wherein the thickness of the second
conductive rung section is configured to causes less attenuation of the radiation beam than the
thickness of the first conductive rung section.
                                                17

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
