DOSAGE FORMS OF HALOFUGINONE AND METHODS OF USE
ABSTRACT
Oral and parenteral dosage forms comprising halofuginone, including enteric-coated solid oral
dosage forms, subcutaneous dosage forms and intravenous dosage forms, for administration to
subjects in need thereof, e.g., subjects having been identified with musculoskeletal disorders,
fibrotic diseases, malaria, or cancer are described herein.

                                                 1
           DOSAGE FORMS OF HALOFUGINONE AND METHODS OF USE
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
         The parent of present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/617,356, filed March 29, 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/798,784, filed
March 15, 2013, the contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their
entireties. The present application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
AU2013237881, the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                        BACKGROUND
         Halofuginone is a halogenated derivative of febrifugine, an alkaloid isolated from the
plant Dichroa febrifuga. Halofuginone includes two carbon stereocenters. In some
embodiments one or more of the carbon stereocenters is enriched for one or more
stereoisomer. In some embodiments, one or more stereocenters are present to provide a
racemic mixture of halofuginone. Halofuginone is depicted structurally as a compound of
formula (I):
                                Br          N
                                           formula (I).
The compound of formula (I) includes two stereoisomers of halofuginone as shown below:
                          O            01                      0                 0H
                     X0            HN1                                       hN.
       B              N                    and Sr '            N
                 formula (la)                                  formula (lb).
Halofuginone also includes two cis isomers (not depicted here). In some embodiments, the
halofuginone mixture predominately includes one or more trans isomers as shown in formula
(la) or (lb) above (e.g greater than 50%, greater than 60%, greater than 70%, greater than
80%) of the compounds in the halofuginone have a trans configuration as shown in formula
(la) or (lb). Halofuginone has been used in the treatment of coccidiosis (a parasitic disease of
the intestinal tract) in domesticated animals. More recently, studies have indicated that
halofuginone may also

be useful in treating a variety of fibrotic diseases, e.g., muscular dystrophy and scleroderma,
vascular diseases, e.g., restenosis, cancer, e.g., metastatic cancer, e.g., metastatic breast cancer,
and autoimmune diseases, e.g., multiple sclerosis.
                                              SUMMARY
        Described herein are forms of halofuginone and pharmaceutically acceptable salts
thereof, which can be used to treat a disorder described herein. In embodiments, the dosage form
or route of administration can reduce or limit stomach exposure to halofuginone (e.g.,
halofuginone in a form that can cause irritation to the stomach). Exemplary forms of
halofuginone are oral dosage forms comprising halofuginone, e.g., solid oral dosage forms
comprising halofuginone, enteric-coated solid oral dosage forms comprising halofuginone. In
some embodiments, an oral dosage form described herein does not release halofuginone in the
stomach of a subject upon administration. Also described herein are non-irritating formulations,
including those that are not dosed through the gastrointestinal track, and thus avoid exposing the
stomach to halofuginone. Exemplary non-irritating formulations include parenteral
administrations such as a subcutaneous or an intravenous formulation. The dosage forms (e.g.,
oral dosage forms or parenteral dosage forms) can be used, for example, in the treatment of
subjects having been identified with disorders such as muscular dystrophy, cancer, or malaria.
Methods of treating a subject using these oral dosage forms e.g., treating a subject identified as
having muscular dystrophy, cancer, or malaria, are also described. Despite known toxicities
associated with oral administration of halofuginone, as well as the known instability of
halofuginone in basic environments, the disclosed dosage forms (e.g., oral dosage forms) result
in increased peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) of halofuginone while reducing or eliminating
the side effects observed in earlier clinical studies, e.g., nausea and vomiting.
        In one aspect, an oral dosage form comprising halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide, dissolvable in a basic solution (e.g., pH
greater than 6.8, greater than 8, greater than 8.5), wherein not more than 10% of the oral dosage
form dissolves in an acidic solution (2 hours in 0.1 N hydrochloric acid) (e.g., pH less than 7,
less than 6, less than 5, less than 4, less than 3). In one embodiment, the oral dosage form
comprises 0.01 to 10 mg of halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g.,
halofuginone hydrobromide. In one embodiment, the oral dosage form comprises 0.05 to 2 mg
                                                     2

of halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide.
In one embodiment, the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of halofuginone is halofuginone
hydrobromide. In one embodiment, the oral dosage form is an enteric-coated solid oral dosage
form. In one embodiment, the enteric coating comprises poly(methacrylic acid-co-ethyl
acrylate).
        In another aspect, the disclosure provides for a method of treating a disorder in a patient
in need thereof, the method comprising administering an enteric-coated oral dosage form
comprising 0.01 to 10 mg of halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g.,
halofuginone hydrobromide, to thereby treat the disorder. In one embodiment, the oral dosage
form comprises 0.05 to 2 mg of halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g.,
halofuginone hydrobromide. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of
halofuginone is halofuginone hydrobromide. In one embodiment, the oral dosage form is an
enteric-coated solid oral dosage form. In one embodiment, the enteric coating comprises
poly(methacrylic acid-co-ethyl acrylate). In one embodiment, the disorder is a musculoskeletal
disorder. In one embodiment, the musculoskeletal disorder is muscular dystrophy. In one
embodiment, the muscular dystrophy is selected from the group consisting of Duchenne MD,
Becker MD, Emery-Dreifuss MD, Limb-Girdle MD, facioscapulohumeral MD, myotonic
dystrophy, oculopharyngeal MD, distal MD, and congenital MD. In one embodiment, the
muscular dystrophy is Duchenne muscular dystrophy. In one embodiment, the disorder is
cancer. In one embodiment, the disorder is metastatic cancer.
        In another aspect, the disclosure provides for an oral dosage form comprising
halofuginone, wherein when administered to a subject, results in a maximum concentration
(Cmax) of at least 3 ng halofuginone/ml of plasma in the subject, when the oral dosage form is
administered to the subject at a dose of 0.1 mg halofuginone per kg of subject weight. In one
embodiment, the subject is a mammal. In one embodiment, the subject is a human. In one
embodiment, the subject has been identified as having a disorder that would benefit from the
administration of halofuginone. In one embodiment, the subject has been identified with a
disorder selected from a fibrotic disease, an autoimmune disease, a vascular disease, malaria, and
cancer.
        In another aspect, the disclosure provides for an oral dosage form comprising
halofuginone, wherein when administered to a subject, results in a maximum concentration
                                                  3

(Cmax) of at least 6 ng halofuginone/ml of plasma in the subject, when the oral dosage form is
administered to the subject at a dose of 0.2 mg halofuginone per kg of subject weight. In one
embodiment, the subject is a mammal. In one embodiment, the subject is a human. In one
embodiment, the subject has been identified as having a disorder which would benefit from the
administration of halofuginone. In one embodiment, the subject has been identified with a
disorder selected from a fibrotic disease, an autoimmune disease, a vascular disease, and cancer.
        In another aspect, the disclosure provides for an oral dosage form comprising
halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide, for
administration to a subject at a dose of at least 0.05 mg halofuginone per kilogram of subject
weight, wherein the subject does not experience gastrointestinal distress (e.g., nausea, vomiting,
pain) within eight hours (e.g., within six hours, e.g., within four hours, e.g., within two hours,
e.g., within one hour) of administration. In one embodiment, the dosage form is administered to
a subject at a dose of at least 0.1mg/kg. In one embodiment, the subject is a mammal. In one
embodiment, the subject is a human. In one embodiment, the subject has been identified as
having a disorder that would benefit from the administration of halofuginone. In one
embodiment, the subject has been identified with a disorder selected from a fibrotic disease, an
autoimmune disease, a vascular disease, malaria, and cancer.
        In another aspect, the disclosure provides for a method of administering an effective
amount of halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone
hydrobromide, to a subject in need thereof, the method comprising administering an enteric
coated solid oral dosage form comprising 0.01 to 10 mg of halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide, wherein the subject does not
experience gastrointestinal distress (e.g., nausea, vomiting, pain) within eight hours (e.g., within
six hours, e.g., within four hours, e.g., within two hours, e.g., within one hour) of administration.
In one embodiment, the dosage form is administered to a subject at a dose of at least 0.1mg/kg.
In one embodiment, the subject is a mammal. In one embodiment, the subject is a human. In
one embodiment, the subject has been identified as having a disorder which would benefit from
the administration of halofuginone. In one embodiment, the subject has been identified with a
disorder selected from a fibrotic disease, an autoimmune disease, a vascular disease, malaria, and
cancer.
                                                   4

        In another aspect, the disclosure provides for an oral dosage form comprising
halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide,
wherein when administered to a subject, results in an area under the plasma concentration time
curve (AUC) of at least 40 ng-hour/mL, at a dose of 0.2 mg halofuginone/kg of subject weight.
In some embodiments, the subject is a mammal. In some embodiments, the mammal is a human.
In some embodiments, the oral dosage form comprises an enteric coating.
        In one aspect, the disclosure provides for a parenteral dosage form of halofuginone or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, such as an exemplary parenteral dosage form described
herein. In some embodiments, the halofuginone is formulated for subcutaneous administration.
In some embodiments, when formulated for a subcutaneous administration, the halofuginone or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is formulated into an aqueous solution. In some
embodiments, the halofuginone is formulated for intravenous administration. In some
embodiments, when formulated for a intravenous administration, the halofuginone or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is formulated into an aqueous solution. In some
embodiments, the dosage form is used to treat a subject that has been identified as having a
disorder selected from a fibrotic disease, an autoimmune disease, a vascular disease, malaria, and
cancer.
        In methods where the halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
formulated for parenteral administration, the halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof is formulated as a solution (e.g., an aqueous solution). In some embodiments, the
concentration of the halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the solution is
from about 0.05 mg/mL to about 1 mg/ml (e.g., from about 0.1 mg/mL to about 0.8 mg/mL, e.g.,
about 0.2 mg/mL, about 0.3 mg/mL, about 0.4 mg/mL, about 0.5 mg/mL, about 0.6 mg/mL,
about 0.7 mg/mL, or about 0.8 mg/mL). In some embodiments, the formulation is used to treat a
subject that has been identified as having a disorder selected from a fibrotic disease, an
autoimmune disease, a vascular disease, malaria, and cancer.
        In some embodiments, when the halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof is dosed parenterally, the halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered in an amount from about 0.01 mg/kg to about 0.5 mg/kg, e.g., from about 0.01
mg/kg to about 0.1 mg/kg. For example, when the halofuginone or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is administered subcutaneously, it can be administered at a dose from
                                                  5

about 0.01 mg/kg to about 0.05 mg/kg (e.g., about 0.03 mg/kg). In some embodiments, when the
halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered intravenously, the
halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof can be administered at a dose from
about 0.01 to about 0.1 mg/kg (e.g., about 0.05 mg/kg). In some embodiments, the dosage form
is used to treat a subject that has been identified as having a disorder selected from a fibrotic
disease, an autoimmune disease, a vascular disease, malaria, and cancer.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        FIGS. 1A and lB show the % dissolution of enteric-coated and non-enteric coated
(uncoated) capsules containing halofuginone in simulated gastric and intestinal fluids,
respectively.
        FIG. 2 shows concentrations of halofuginone in dog plasma as a function of time after
administration of an aqueous solution at a dose of 0.15mg/kg.
        FIG. 3 shows concentrations of halofuginone in dog plasma as a function of time after
administration of a non-enteric-coated capsule at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg.
        FIG. 4 shows concentrations of halofuginone in dog plasma as a function of time after
administration of an enteric-coated capsule at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg.
        FIG. 5 shows concentrations of halofuginone in dog plasma as a function of time after
administration of a non-enteric-coated capsule at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg.
        FIG. 6 shows concentrations of halofuginone in dog plasma as a function of time after
administration of an enteric-coated capsule at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg.
        FIG. 7 shows the Study Design of dog studies administered with oral and parenteral
forms of halofuginone.
        FIG. 8 shows a line graph depicting the average concentrations (± SD) of Halofuginone
  hydrobromide following administration of an oral tablet (-0.15 mg/kg), oral solution (0.15
  mg/kg), subcutaneous solution (0.03 mg/kg), or intravenous solution (0.05 mg/kg).
                                                    6

                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         This disclosure is not limited in its application to the details of the dosage forms or the
specific order of preparation or administration of the dosage forms. The dosage forms described
herein may be suitably prepared using other techniques and/or administered in various ways.
Also, the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should
not be regarded as limiting.
Definitions
         The term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or adjuvant," as used herein, refers to a
carrier or adjuvant that may be administered to a subject, together with a compound of this
invention, and which does not destroy the pharmacological activity thereof and is nontoxic when
administered in doses sufficient to deliver a therapeutic amount of the compound.
         The term, "pharmaceutically acceptable salts," as used herein, refers to derivatives of the
disclosed compounds wherein the parent compound is modified by converting an existing acid or
base moiety to its salt form. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include, but are not
limited to, mineral or organic acid salts of basic residues such as amines; alkali or organic salts
of acidic residues such as carboxylic acids; and the like. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts
of the disclosure include the conventional non-toxic salts of the parent compound, e.g.,
halofuginone, formed, for example, from non-toxic inorganic or organic acids. The
pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the disclosure can be synthesized from the parent
compound, e.g., halofuginone, which contains a basic or acidic moiety by conventional chemical
methods. Generally, such salts can be prepared by reacting the free acid or base forms of these
compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base or acid in water or in an organic
solvent, or in a mixture of the two; generally, nonaqueous media like ether, ethyl acetate,
ethanol, isopropanol, or acetonitrile are preferred. Lists of suitable salts are found in
Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences,        17th ed., Mack Publishing Company, Easton, Pa., 1985,
p. 1418 and Journalof PharmaceuticalScience, 66, 2 (1977), each of which is incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety.
         The phrase, "pharmaceutically acceptable derivative or prodrug," as used herein refers to
any pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, salt of an ester, or other derivative of a compound,
e.g., a hydrobromide salt, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide, or halofuginone lactate, which, upon
                                                     7

administration to a recipient, is capable of providing (directly or indirectly) a therapeutic agent.
Particularly favored derivatives and prodrugs are those that increase the bioavailability of the
compounds of this invention when such compounds are administered to a mammal (e.g., by
allowing an orally administered compound to be more readily absorbed into the blood) or which
enhance delivery of the parent compound to a biological compartment (e.g., the brain or
lymphatic system) relative to the parent species. Preferred prodrugs include derivatives where a
group which enhances aqueous solubility or active transport through the gut membrane is
appended to the structure of formulae described herein.
         The term, "oral dosage form," as used herein, refers to a composition or medium used to
administer an agent, e.g., halofuginone, to a subject. Typically, an oral dosage form is
administered via the mouth, however, "oral dosage form" is intended to cover any substance
which is administered to a subject and is absorbed across a membrane, e.g., a mucosal
membrane, of the gastrointestinal tract, including, e.g., the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small
intestine, large intestine, and colon. For example, "oral dosage form" covers a solution which is
administered through a feeding tube into the stomach. "Oral dosage forms" may be
administered buccally or sublingually.
         The term, "parenteral dosage form," as used herein, refers to a composition or medium
used to administer an agent, e.g., halofuginone, to a subject by way other than mouth or the
gastrointestinal tract. Exemplary parenteral dosage forms or modes of administration include
intranasally, buccally, intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous, intraparenteral, bucosal,
sublingual, intraoccular, and topical (e.g., intravenous or subcutaneous).
         The term, "treat" or "treatment," as used herein, refers to the application or
administration of a compound, alone or in combination with, a second compound to a subject,
e.g., a subject, or application or administration of the compound to an isolated tissue or cell, e.g.,
cell line, from a subject, e.g., a subject, who has a disorder (e.g., a disorder as described herein),
a symptom of a disorder, or a predisposition toward a disorder, with the purpose to cure, heal,
alleviate, relieve, alter, remedy, ameliorate, improve or affect the disorder, one or more
symptoms of the disorder or the predisposition toward the disorder (e.g., to minimize at least one
symptom of the disorder or to delay onset of at least one symptom of the disorder).
         The phrase, "an amount of a compound effective to treat a disorder," or a "therapeutically
effective amount," as used herein, refers to an amount of the compound which is effective, upon
                                                    8

single or multiple dose administration to a subject, in treating a cell, or in curing, alleviating,
relieving or improving a subject with a disorder beyond that expected in the absence of such
treatment.
        The term, "dissolvable," as used here, refers to a compound or composition whereby at
least 50% (wt/wt), e.g., 70%, e.g., 80%, e.g., 90%, e.g., 98% of the compound or composition
goes into solution within 120 minutes when the compound or composition is placed in a
preponderance of solvent, i.e., the compound or composition is placed in solvent at a ratio of at
least 10:1 solvent:compound or composition (wt/wt).
        As used herein, the term "subject" is intended to include human and non-human animals.
Exemplary human subjects include a human subject having a disorder, e.g., a disorder described
herein or a normal subject. The term "non-human animals" of the invention includes all
vertebrates, e.g., non-mammals (such as chickens, amphibians, reptiles) and mammals, such as
non-human primates, domesticated and/or agriculturally useful animals, e.g., sheep, dog, cat,
cow, pig, etc.
Dosage forms and dose protocols
         Oral dosageforms and dose protocols
        Described herein are oral dosage forms comprising halofuginone, or pharmaceutically
acceptable salts thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide, e.g., solid oral dosage forms
comprising halofuginone, e.g., enteric-coated solid oral dosage forms comprising halofuginone.
The oral dosage forms can be used, for example, in the treatment of subjects having been
identified with disorders such as muscular dystrophy, malaria, or cancer. Methods of treating a
subject using these oral dosage forms e.g., treating a subject identified as having muscular
dystrophy or cancer, are also described. Despite known toxicities associated with oral
administration of halofuginone, as well as the known instability of halofuginone in basic
environments, the disclosed oral dosage forms result in increased peak plasma concentrations
(Cmax) of halofuginone while reducing or eliminating the side effects observed in earlier clinical
studies, e.g., nausea and vomiting.
        In another aspect, the oral dosage form comprises halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide, dissolvable in a basic solution (e.g., pH
greater than 6.8), wherein not more than 10% of the oral dosage form dissolves in an acidic
                                                  9

solution (e.g., pH less than 6.8). In one embodiment, the oral dosage form comprises 0.01 to 10
mg of halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone
hydrobromide. In one embodiment, the oral dosage form comprises 0.1 to 1 mg of halofuginone,
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide. In one
embodiment, the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of halofuginone is halofuginone
hydrobromide. In one embodiment, the oral dosage form is an enteric-coated solid oral dosage
form. In one embodiment, the enteric coating comprises poly(methacrylic acid-co-ethyl
acrylate).
        In another aspect, the disclosure provides for a method of treating a disorder in a patient
in need thereof, the method comprising administering an enteric-coated oral dosage form
comprising 0.01 to 10 mg of halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g.,
halofuginone hydrobromide, to thereby treat the disorder. In one embodiment, the oral dosage
form comprises 0.05 to 1 mg of halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g.,
halofuginone hydrobromide. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of
halofuginone is halofuginone hydrobromide. In one embodiment, the oral dosage form is an
enteric-coated solid oral dosage form. In one embodiment, the enteric coating comprises
poly(methacrylic acid-co-ethyl acrylate). In one embodiment, the disorder is a musculoskeletal
disorder. In one embodiment, the musculoskeletal disorder is muscular dystrophy. In one
embodiment, the muscular dystrophy is selected from the group consisting of Duchenne MD,
Becker MD, Emery-Dreifuss MD, Limb-Girdle MD, facioscapulohumeral MD, myotonic
dystrophy, oculopharyngeal MD, distal MD, and congenital MD. In one embodiment, the
muscular dystrophy is Duchenne muscular dystrophy. In one embodiment, the disorder is
cancer. In one embodiment, the disorder is metastatic cancer. In one embodiment, the disorder
is a parasitic disorder, e.g., malaria. In one embodiment, the disorder is a fibrotic disease, e.g.,
scleroderma. In one embodiment the disorder is an autoimmune disease, e.g., multiple sclerosis.
        In another aspect, described herein is an oral dosage form comprising halofuginone, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide, wherein when
administered to a subject, results in a maximum concentration (Cmax) of at least 3 ng
halofuginone/mL of plasma in a subject, when the oral dosage form is administered to the subject
at a dose of 0.075 mg halofuginone per kg of subject weight. In one embodiment, the subject is a
mammal. In one embodiment, the subject is a human. In one embodiment, the subject has been
                                                  10

identified as having a disorder which would benefit from the administration of halofuginone. In
one embodiment, the subject has been identified with a disorder selected from a fibrotic disease,
an autoimmune disease, a vascular disease, a parasitic disease, e.g., malaria, and cancer.
        In another aspect, an oral dosage form comprising halofuginone which results in a
maximum concentration (Cmax) of at least 6 ng halofuginone/ml of plasma in a subject, when the
oral dosage form is administered to the subject at a dose of 0.2 mg halofuginone per kg of
subject weight. In one embodiment, the subject is a mammal. In one embodiment, the subject is
a human. In one embodiment, the subject has been identified as having a disorder which would
benefit from the administration of halofuginone. In one embodiment, the subject has been
identified with a disorder selected from a fibrotic disease, an autoimmune disease, a vascular
disease, a parasitic disease, e.g., malaria, and cancer.
        In another aspect, the disclosure provides for an oral dosage form comprising
halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide, for
administration to a subject at a dose of at least 0.05 mg halofuginone per kg of subject weight,
wherein the subject does not experience gastrointestinal distress (e.g., nausea, vomiting, pain)
within eight hours (e.g., within six hours, e.g., within four hours, e.g., within two hours, within 1
hour) of administration. In one embodiment, the dosage form is administered to a subject at a
dose of at least 0.1 mg/kg. In one embodiment, the subject is a mammal. In one embodiment,
the subject is a human. In one embodiment, the subject has been identified as having a disorder
which would benefit from the administration of halofuginone. In one embodiment, the subject
has been identified with a disorder selected from a fibrotic disease, an autoimmune disease, a
vascular disease, a parasitic disease, e.g., malaria, and cancer.
        An oral dosage form, e.g., an oral dosage form described herein, may be administered
one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, or more times daily. A dosage regimen may
continue for one week, two weeks, one month, or longer. In some embodiments, the oral dosage
form is administered at least once daily for two weeks. In some embodiments, the oral dosage
form is administered twice daily for two weeks or longer.
        The oral dosage forms described herein, e.g., enteric-coated solid dosage forms, can be
administered in combination with one or more actives or other therapies. The oral dosage forms
may be administered at the same time or sequentially with one or more actives or other therapies.
The oral dosage forms may be administered in a staggered fashion, e.g., each drug is taken twice
                                                    11

daily, with six hours between administration of each different drug. In some embodiments, oral
dosage forms described herein may be co-administered with anti-emetic drugs, e.g., Mirtazapine.
Oral dosage forms described herein may be administered with additional therapeutic compounds,
such as anti-inflammatory agents, anti-viral agents, anti-cancer agents, or anti-fibrotic agents.
        Parenteraldosageforms and dose protocols
        In one aspect, the disclosure provides for a parenteral dosage form of halofuginone or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, such as an exemplary parenteral dosage form described
herein. In some embodiments, the halofuginone is formulated for subcutaneous administration.
In some embodiments, when formulated for a subcutaneous administration, the halofuginone or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is formulated into an aqueous solution. In some
embodiments, the halofuginone is formulated for intravenous administration. In some
embodiments, when formulated for a intravenous administration, the halofuginone or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is formulated into an aqueous solution.
        In methods where the halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
formulated for parenteral administration, the halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof is formulated as a solution (e.g., an aqueous solution). In some embodiments, the
concentration of the halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is the solution is
from about 0.05 mg/mL to about 1 mg/ml (e.g., from about 0.1 mg/mL to about 0.8 mg/mL, e.g.,
about 0.2 mg/mL, about 0.3 mg/mL, about 0.4 mg/mL, about 0.5 mg/mL, about 0.6 mg/mL,
about 0.7 mg/mL, or about 0.8 mg/mL).
        In some embodiments, when the halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof is dosed parenterally, the halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered in an amount from about 0.01 mg/kg to about 0.5 mg/kg, e.g., from about 0.01
mg/kg to about 0.1 mg/kg. For example, when the halofuginone or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is administered subcutaneously, it can be administered at a dose from
about 0.01 mg/kg to about 0.05 mg/kg (e.g., about 0.03 mg/kg). In some embodiments, when the
halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered intravenously, the
halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof can be administered at a dose from
about 0.01 to about 0.1 mg/kg (e.g., about 0.05 mg/kg). In one embodiment, the subject is being
treated for a musculoskeletal disorder. In one embodiment, the musculoskeletal disorder is
                                                  12

muscular dystrophy. In one embodiment, the muscular dystrophy is selected from the group
consisting of Duchenne MD, Becker MD, Emery-Dreifuss MD, Limb-Girdle MD,
facioscapulohumeral MD, myotonic dystrophy, oculopharyngeal MD, distal MD, and congenital
MD. In one embodiment, the muscular dystrophy is Duchenne muscular dystrophy. In one
embodiment, the subject is being treated for a cancer. In one embodiment, the disorder is
metastatic cancer. In one embodiment, the disorder is a parasitic disorder, e.g., malaria. In one
embodiment, the disorder is a fibrotic disease, e.g., scleroderma. In one embodiment the
disorder is an autoimmune disease, e.g., multiple sclerosis.
Halofuinone
         Quinazolinone derivatives have been used for some time to treat a variety of disorders,
e.g., intestinal parasitic diseases, e.g., coccidiosis. Halofuginone, (7-bromo-6-chloro-3-[3-(3
hydroxy-2-piperidinyl)-2-oxopropyl]-4(3H)-quinazolinone), an analog of a plant alkaloid
originally isolated from the plant Dichroafebrifuga,is the quinazolinone derivative most widely
used as a coccidiostat. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,824,847; 4,855,299; 4,861,758 and 5,215,993,
incorporated by reference herein in their entireties, all relate to the coccidiocidal properties of
halofuginone.
         In addition to coccidiocidal properties, it was more recently discovered that
quinazolinone derivatives, e.g., halofuginone, can inhibit collagen synthesis, and are useful for
the treatment of conditions such as scleroderma and graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). See,
e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,449,678, incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Furthermore, U.S.
Pat. No. 5,891,879, incorporated by reference herein in its entirety, discloses that quinazolinone
derivatives, e.g., halofuginone, are effective in treating restenosis and other forms of vascular
disease.
         Halofuginone-containing pharmaceutical compositions, including oral dosage forms,
have been administered in attempts to treat these disorders, as well as malaria. See Jiang et al.,
"Antimalarial Activities and Therapeutic Properties of Febrifugine Analogs," Antimicrobial
Agents and Chemotherapy, Mar. 2005, p. 1169-1176. However, halofuginone has not been
commercially-successful because it is not tolerated in the gastrointestinal tract. For example,
Jiang et al. report widespread gastrointestinal tract injuries, e.g., intestinal hemorrhage, in mice
that were administered halofuginone at a dose of 5 mg/kg. In contrast, mice administered
                                                     13

halofuginone subcutaneously did not experience the same levels of gastrointestinal tract injuries,
however, because halofuginone is much more toxic when administered subcutaneously, the
allowable dosages were much smaller, and were not effective.
         Additional disclosures related to administration of halofuginone are disclosed in U.S.
Patent Publication Nos. 20070184082 and 20050208134 both of which are incorporated herein
by reference in their entireties.
Oral formulations
         Oral dosage forms may comprise, in addition to halofuginone, a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier, and may optionally further comprise one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
excipients, such as, for example, binding agents, stabilizers, diluents, surfactants, flavors, and
odorants.
         Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers can be sterile liquids, such as water and oils,
including those of petroleum, animal, vegetable or synthetic origin, such as peanut oil, soybean
oil, mineral oil, sesame oil and the like. Water is a preferred carrier when the oral dosage form is
a liquid. Saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions can also be employed as
liquid carriers. Oral dosage forms may be manufactured by processes well known in the art, e.g.,
by means of conventional mixing, dissolving, granulating, surface deposition, dragee-making,
levigating, emulsifying, encapsulating, entrapping or lyophilizing processes. Further techniques
for formulation and administration of active ingredients may be found in "Remington's
Pharmaceutical Sciences," Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa., latest edition, which is
incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth herein. Oral dosage forms for use in
accordance with the present invention thus may be formulated in conventional manner using one
or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers comprising excipients and auxiliaries, which
facilitate processing of the active ingredients into preparations which, can be used
pharmaceutically.
         For oral administration, the active ingredients, e.g., halofuginone, e.g., halofuginone
hydrobromide, can be formulated readily by combining the active ingredients with
pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. Such carriers enable the active
ingredients of the invention to be formulated as tablets, pills, dragees, capsules, liquids, gels,
syrups, slurries, powders or granules, suspensions or solutions in water or non-aqueous media,
                                                   14

and the like, for oral ingestion by a patient. Pharmacological preparations for oral use can be
made using a solid excipient, optionally grinding the resulting mixture, and processing the
mixture of granules, after adding suitable auxiliaries if desired, to obtain tablets or dragee cores.
Suitable excipients such as thickeners, diluents, flavorings, dispersing aids, emulsifiers, binders
or preservatives may be desirable.
        Dragee cores are provided with suitable coatings. For this purpose, concentrated sugar
solutions may be used which may optionally contain gum arabic, talc, polyvinyl pyrrolidone,
carbopol gel, polyethylene glycol, titanium dioxide, lacquer solutions and suitable organic
solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments may be added to the tablets or dragee
coatings for identification or to characterize different combinations of active ingredient doses.
        Pharmaceutical compositions, which can be used orally, include push-fit capsules made
of gelatin as well as soft, sealed capsules made of gelatin and a plasticizer, such as glycerol or
sorbitol. The push-fit capsules may contain the active ingredients in admixture with filler such
as lactose, binders such as starches, lubricants such as talc or magnesium stearate and, optionally,
stabilizers. In soft capsules, the active ingredients may be dissolved or suspended in suitable
liquids, such as fatty oils, liquid paraffin, or liquid polyethylene glycols. In addition, stabilizers
may be added. All formulations for oral administration should be in dosages suitable for the
chosen route of administration.
        The dosage may vary depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of
administration utilized. The exact formulation, route of administration and dosage can be chosen
by the individual physician in view of the patient's condition. (See e.g., Fingl, et al., 1975, in
"The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics", Ch. 1 p. 1). Lower or higher doses than those
recited above may be required. Specific dosage and treatment regimens for any particular subject
will depend upon a variety of factors, including the activity of the specific compound employed,
the age, body weight, general health status, sex, diet, time of administration, rate of excretion,
drug combination, the severity and course of the disease, condition or symptoms, the subject's
disposition to the disease, condition or symptoms, and the judgment of the treating physician.
        Upon improvement of a subject's condition, a maintenance dose of a compound,
composition or combination of this invention may be administered, if necessary. Subsequently,
the dosage or frequency of administration, or both, may be reduced, as a function of the
symptoms, to a level at which the improved condition is retained when the symptoms have been
                                                     15

alleviated to the desired level. Subjects may, however, require intermittent treatment on a long
term basis upon any recurrence of disease symptoms.
        Oral dosage forms may, if desired, be presented in a pack or dispenser device, such as an
FDA approved kit, which may contain one or more unit dosage forms containing the active
ingredient. The pack may, for example, comprise metal or plastic foil, such as a blister pack. The
pack or dispenser device may be accompanied by instructions for administration. The pack or
dispenser may also be accompanied by a notice associated with the container in a form
prescribed by a governmental agency regulating the manufacture, use or sale of pharmaceuticals,
which notice is reflective of approval by the agency of the form of the compositions or human or
veterinary administration. Such notice, for example, may be of labeling approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration for prescription drugs or of an approved product insert.
Enteric Coatings
        Enteric coatings have been used for many years to delay the release of the drug from the
dosage forms. Depending on the composition and/or thickness, the enteric coatings are resistant
to acidic gastric fluids but are soluble at higher pH in the intestine. Therefore, enteric coated oral
dosage forms do not release the drug in the acidic gastric fluids where the drug is susceptible to
degradation. The enteric coating polymer may be selected from polymers soluble at pH existing
in the upper part of the small intestine or in the latter part of the small intestine and accordingly
the release of the drug is delayed by a time period required for the dosage form to transit to these
parts of the intestine. A variety of enteric coatings are known, including, but not limited to
waxes, shellacs, polymers, and plant fibers. Specific enteric coatings include methyl acrylate
methacrylic acid copolymers, cellulose acetate succinate, hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose
phthalate, hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose acetate succinate, polyvinyl acetate phthalate, methyl
methacrylate-methacrylic acid copolymers, sodium alginate, and stearic acid. An enteric coating
may be applied to a solid oral dosage form, e.g., a capsule or tablet, using a variety of known
techniques, e.g., spray coating or pan coating. In some embodiments, the enteric coating can be:
methylcellulose; ethylcellulose hydroxyethylcellulose; hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC);
sodium carboxymethylcellulose; agar-agar; carob gum; alginates; molasses; polysaccharides of
mannose and galactose; chitosan; modified starches; aliphatic poly (esters); poly anhydrides;
polyhydroxyethyle methylacrylate (PHEMA); cross-linked polyvinyl alcohol (PVA); cross
                                                   16

linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP); polyethylene oxide (PEO); polyacrylamide (PA);
polyethylene glycol (PEG); polyvinyl alcohol (PVA); polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP);
hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose (HPMC); polylactic acid (PLA); polyglycolic acid (PGA);
polycaprolactone (PCL); polyanhydrides; polyorthoesters; polyethylene vinyl acetate (PVA);
polydimethyl siloxane (PDS); polyether urethane (PEU); polyvinyl chloride (PVC); cellulose
acetate (CA); ethyl cellulose (EC); polycarbophil; sodium carboxymethyl cellulose; polyacrylic
acid; tragacanth; methyl cellulose; pectin; xanthan gum; guar gum; and Karaya gum.
Parenteral formulations
         In some embodiments, halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
formulated for parenteral administration containing a halofuginone or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and a pharmaceutical excipient suitable for parenteral administration.
Exemplary forms of parenteral administration include intravenous, intraarterial, subcutaneous,
intramuscular, intravascular, intraperitoneal or infusion.
         The forms in which the halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof can be
incorporated for administration by injection include aqueous or oil suspensions, or emulsions,
with sesame oil, corn oil, cottonseed oil, or peanut oil, as well as elixirs, mannitol, dextrose, or a
sterile aqueous solution, and similar pharmaceutical vehicles.
         Aqueous solutions in saline can also be used for injection. Exemplary excipients include
ethanol, glycerol, propylene glycol, liquid polyethylene glycol, cyclodextrin derivatives, and
vegetable oils.
         Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating halofuginone or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with
one or more excipients, followed by filtered sterilization. Dispersions can be prepared by
incorporating a sterilized halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof into a sterile
vehicle. An injectable formulation can be sterilized, for example, by filtration through a
bacterial-retaining filter, or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid
compositions which can be dissolved or dispersed in sterile water or other sterile injectable
medium prior to use. Injectable compositions can contain from about 0.1 to about 5% w/w of a
compound as disclosed herein.
                                                   17

Disorders
        A formulation of halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (e.g., an oral
dosage form described herein or a parenteral dosage form described herein) can be used to treat a
variety of disorders, e.g., disorders described herein. In general, subjects having been identified
with musculoskeletal disorders, disorders relating to the formation of collagen, or disorders
relating to or facilitated by the formation of blood vessels, e.g., metastatic cancer, or an
autoimmune disease may receive benefit from the administration of oral dosage forms
comprising halofuginone.
Fibrotic disorders
        As disclosed in Pines et al. Gen. Pharmac. Vol. 30, No. 4, pp. 445-450, 1998, progressive
 fibroproliferative diseases such as liver cirrhosis, pulmonary and kidney fibrosis, scleroderma,
 etc., exhibit excessive production of connective tissues, results in destruction of normal tissue
 architecture and function. The fibrotic reaction is thought to involve the stimulative response
 of tissue cells resulting in increased proliferation as well as extracellular matrix (ECM)
 deposition. Collagen was found to be a major ECM molecule synthesized in the fibrotic lesion.
 In some cases, such as in pulmonary and kidney fibrosis, the fibroblasts are thought to play a
 pivotal role (Rodemann and Bamberg, 1995; Rodemann et al.,1996). In normal and injured
 liver, other resident cells, such as stellate cells, were found to be the cellular source of collagen
 and other ECM molecules (Friedman, 1993). It is generally recognized that most treatments for
 these diseases have little effect upon the inexorable pathological progression. Moreover, in
 many of these diseases a chronic inflammatory process may provide a continuing stimulus to
 fibrogenesis.
        In addition to the fibrotic diseases with excess collagen deposition, normal wound healing
 involves the formation of scars and fibrous tissue that consists largely of collagen fibrils.
 Collagen molecules are an integral part of fibrous elements or supramolecular structures in
 extracellular spaces that function as major components of the various connective tissues.
 Although moderate degrees of fibrous tissue are beneficial in wound repair, fibrous material
 often accumulates in excessive amounts and impairs the normal function of the affected tissue.
 Such excessive accumulation of collagen becomes an important event in scarring of the skin
 after burns or traumatic injury (Zhang et al., 1995b), in hypertrophic scars and in keloids
                                                    18

  (Friedman et al., 1993). The formation of postoperational adhesions, which is the major cause
  of intestinal obstruction (Menzies, 1993; Weibel and Manjo, 1973), sterility in females (Monk
  et al., 1994), and difficulties during subsequent recurring operations (Yaffe et al., 1980), is
  another example of the results of excessive collagen deposition.
Muscular Dystrophy
         Muscle fibrosis is a phenomenon that frequently occurs in diseased or damaged muscle. It
is characterized by the excessive growth of fibrous tissue, which usually results from the body's
attempt to recover from injury. Fibrosis impairs muscle function and causes weakness. The
amount of muscle function loss generally increases with the extent of fibrosis. Fibrosis is usually
progressive and can contribute to the patient's inability to carry out ordinary tasks of independent
living, such as grasping objects or walking. Fibrosis commonly occurs as a result of muscular
dystrophy, as well as due to other afflictions, such as denervation atrophy, a degradation of
muscle tissue caused by loss of neural contact to a muscle. For some types of muscular
dystrophy, such as Duchenne, fibrosis can result in death as the muscles of the diaphragm are
affected (the diaphragm is a skeletal muscle which is involuntary rather than voluntary).
         Muscular dystrophies are a heterogeneous group of genetic disorders characterized by the
progressive loss of muscle strength and integrity. Dystrophic muscle shows variation in muscle
fiber size, infiltration of connective and fatty tissue, and centrally located nuclei. The membranes
of the fibers are fragile and extensive damage occurs, leading to necrosis and muscle wasting.
Victims of muscular dystrophies, particularly Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) and Duchenne
muscular dystrophy (DMD), frequently suffer from increasing skeletal muscle fibrosis as the
disease progresses.
         The most common form of muscle dystrophy is the X-linked recessive DMD, a severely
penetrating allelic manifestation which affects 1 in 3500 live males at birth; about a third of cases
occur as de novo mutations in the infant (Emery A E. (1991) Neuromusc. Disord. 1:19-29).
Usually the disease is diagnosed at 4-5 years of age and by 8-10 years, deterioration of the
patient's condition necessitates wheelchair use. By their early teens, further neurological and
cardiological symptoms are apparent. Progression of muscle degeneration and worsening clinical
symptoms, lead to death in the late teens or early twenties, typically as a result of cardio
pulmonary complications due to fibrosis of the diaphragm.
                                                    19

         The leading causes of death in DMD victims, respiratory and heart failure, result from
weakness in diaphragm and myocardium muscles that are most affected by fibrosis (Finsterer,
(2003) Cardiology 99:1-19). Fibrosis is characterised by an increase in extra-cellular matrix
(ECM) constituents especially collagen type I. Both in DMD and Congenital muscular dystrophy
(CMD), an increase in type I and III collagens were observed in the skeletal muscle (Hantai et al.
(1985) Connect Tissue Res. 13:273-81 and Dunace, et al. (1980) Nature 284:470-472) leading to
fibrosis, which correlated with muscle destruction (Zhao, et al. (2003) J. Patho. 201:149-59). The
cardiac involvement in DMD is characterized pathologically by degeneration and fibrosis of the
myocardium, probably due to myofibroblast activity, centering around the posterolateral wall of
the left ventricle.
         BMD is a less severe condition than DMD, characterized by slowly progressive muscle
weakness of the legs and pelvis, again due to fibrosis of the muscles (although for BMD the
skeletal muscles are more greatly affected). The advance of fibrosis often causes ever greater
loss of mobility and a reduced life expectancy. At some point, the patient may become too weak
to walk and takes to a wheelchair.
         Both BMD and DMD are associated with defects in the dystrophin gene, the gene
responsible for the production of dystrophin protein, which is a vital part of the dystrophin
glycoprotein complex. DMD is characterized by the near absence of dystrophin protein in
skeletal muscles, while BMD results from different mutations in the same gene, resulting in
decreased or damaged dystrophin. The presence of some dystrophin protects the muscles of those
with BMD from degenerating as badly or as quickly as those of DMD victims.
         As described in U.S. Patent Application No. US2010/0144766, incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety, halofuginone has been shown to be effective in improving muscle
physiology and/or reducing the pressure on muscle regeneration in mdx mice, a known murine
model for studying muscular dystrophy, e.g., Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
Vascular Disease
         The pathogenesis of atherosclerosis involves abnormal migration and proliferation of
smooth muscle cells (SMCs) infiltrated with macrophages and embedded in extracellular matrix
(ECM) of adhesive glycoproteins, proteoglycans and collagens V. Fuster, et al., "The
Pathogenesis of Coronary Artery Disease and the Acute Coronary Syndromes," New Eng. J.
                                                 20

Med., Vol. 326, pp. 242-250 (1992); R. Ross, "The Pathogenesis of Atherosclerosis: A
Perspective for the 1990's," Nature, Vol. 362, pp. 801-809 (1993). Under physiological
conditions, the majority of arterial SMCs remains in the Go phase and cell growth is controlled
by a balance between endogenous proliferation-stimulating and proliferation-inhibiting factors.
Following endothelial cell perturbation due to atherogenic risk factors (i.e., hypertension,
hyperlipoproteinemia, diabetes mellitus), platelets and non-platelet-derived growth factors and
cytokines are released and stimulate monocyte and SMC migration as well as SMC proliferation
(V. Fuster, et al., ibid.; R. Ross, ibid.). Among these growth factors are platelet-derived growth
factor (PDGF) G. A. A. Ferns, et al., "Inhibition of Neoinitmal Smooth Muscle Accumulation
after Angioplasty by an Antibody to PDGF," Science, Vol. 253, pp. 1129-1132 (1991), basic
fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) V. Lindner, et al., "Role of Basic Fibroblast Growth Factor in
Vascular Lesion Formation," Circ. Res., Vol. 68, pp. 106-113 (1991), and interleukin-1 (IL-1) H.
Loppnow and P. Libby, "Proliferating or Interleukin-1 Activated Human Vascular Smooth
Muscle Cells Secrete Copious Interleukin 6, " J. Clin. Invest., Vol. 85, pp. 731-738 (1990).
        Macrophages and platelets also release enzymes, i.e., elastase, collagenase, heparanase)
that digest various constituents of the ECM and release bFGF and possibly other growth factors
(TGFB) that are stored in basement membranes and ECM I. Vlodavsky, et al., "Extracellylar
Matrix-bound Growth Factors, Enzymes and Plasma Proteins," in: Molecular and Cellular
Aspects of Basement Membranes, Monographs in Cell Biology, D. H. Rohrbach and R. Timpl,
Eds., Academic Press, New York, N.Y., U.S.A., pp. 327-346 (1993). A potent growth-promoting
activity towards SMCs is also exerted by thrombin, which, under certain conditions, may be
present within the vessel wall R. Bar-Shavit, et al., "Thrombin Immobilized to Extracellular
Matrix Is a Mitogen for Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells: Non-Enzymatic Mode of Action," Cell
Reg., Vol. 1, pp. 453-463 (1990); S. M. Schwartz, "Serum-Derived Growth Factor is
Thrombin?" J. Clin. Invest., Vol 91, p. 4 (1993)!. Molecules that interfere with the growth
promoting activity of these growth factors may attenuate the progression of the atherogenic
process.
        Proliferation of arterial smooth muscle cells (SMC) in response to endothelial injury is a
basic event in the process of restenosis of coronary arteries after percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty (PTCA) V. Fuster, et al., ibid. Coronary bypass surgery or angioplasty are
applied to reopen coronary arteries that have been narrowed by heart disease. A major problem
                                                   21

with both procedures is that arteries rapidly reclog in about 30% of patients undergoing
angioplasty and about 10% of bypass surgery patients. Vascular SMC are ordinarily protected by
the smooth inner lining of the arteries, composed of vascular endothelial cells. However,
following bypass surgery or angioplasty, SMC are often left exposed. In a futile effort to repair
the wound, the cells proliferate and clog the artery.
         As described in U.S. Patent No. 5,891,879, which is incorporated by reference herein in
its entirety, halofuginone has been shown to be effective in inhibiting the activity of various
growth factors, including bFGF, and inhibits autocrine growth of vascular SMC and fibroblasts.
It was also shown that halofuginone can be used to inhibit SMC proliferation, to provide an
effective strategy for inhibiting the pathophysiology of arteriosclerosis, restenosis after coronary
angioplasty, and neointimal proliferation in saphenous vein grafts.
Angiogenesis
         Pathological situations exist in which the control mechanisms that normally operate to
restrict angiogenesis are broken down, and an uncontrolled growth of blood vessels is unleashed.
The resultant, excessive neovascularization underlies a number of so-called "angiogenic
diseases" [J. Folkman, "Angiogenesis in Cancer, Vascular, Rheumatoid and Other Diseases,"
Nature Medicine, Vol. 1, pp. 27-31 (1995)]. One group of angiogenic diseases comprises
retinopathies distinguished by excessive in growth of blood vessels into the retina, leading to
obstruction of vision and eventually to blindness [J. Folkman, ibid. (1995)].
         However, the most devastating disease in which unwarranted angiogenesis plays a crucial
role is the progression and spread of solid tumors, e.g., metastasis. It is now well-accepted that
once tumor take has occurred, every increase in tumor cell population must be preceded by an
increase in new capillaries that converge on the tumor and supply the cells with oxygen and
nutrients [J. Folkman. ibid. (1985); J. Folkman, "What Is the Evidence that Tumors Are
Angiogenesis Dependent?" J. Natl. Cancer Inst., Vol. 82, pp. 4-6 (1989); N. Weidner, et al.,
"Tumor Angiogenesis Correlates with Metastasis in Invasive Prostate Carcinoma," Amer. J.
Pathol., Vol. 143, pp. 401-409 (1993)]. Tumors may thus remain harmless and confined to their
tissue of origin, as long as an accompanying angiogenic program is prevented from being
activated.
                                                  22

         Since the angiogenesis-dependent step in tumor progression is shared by solid tumors of
all ethiologies, the ability to inhibit tumor-associated angiogenesis is a promising approach in
combatting cancer [M. S. O'Reilly, et al., "A Novel Angiogenesis Inhibitor that Mediates the
Suppression of Metastases by a Lewis Lung Carcinoma," Cell, Vol. 79, pp. 316-328 (1994)].
A substantial body of experimental evidence supports the hypothesis that tumor angiogenesis is
fundamental for the growth and metastasis of solid tumors [J. Folkman, ibid. (1989); N.
Weidner, et al., ibid. (1993): M. S. O'Reilly, et al., ibid. (1994); N. Weidner, et al., "Tumor
Angiogenesis and Metastasis--Correlation in Invasive Breast Carcinoma," N. Eng. J. Med., Vol.
324, pp. 1-8 (1991)]. Indeed, the majority of solid tumors are not even clinically detectable until
after the occurrence of neovascularizartion, whose induction in solid tumors is mediated by one
or more angiogenic factors [J. Folkman, ibid. (1987); J. Folkman and Y. Shing, ibid. (1992)].
Moreover, the ability to inhibit blood vessel proliferation and penetration into a given organ
carries the potential of treating other diseases, which is of paramount medical importance.
         Protracted angiogenesis is also observed in a variety of pathologic states, such as arthritis,
psoriasis, diabetic retinopathy, chronic inflammation, scleroderma, hemangioma, retrolental
fibroplasia and abnormal capillary proliferation in hemophiliac joints, prolonged menstruation
and bleeding, and other disorders of the female reproductive system [J. Folkman, ibid. (1995); J.
W. Miller, et al., "Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor/Vascular Permeability Factor Is
Temporarily and Partially Correlated with Ocular Angiogenesis in a Primate Model," J. Pathol.,
Vol. 145, pp. 574-584 (1994); A. P. Adamis, et al., "Increased Vascular Endothelial Growth
Factor Levels in the Vitreous of Eyes with Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy," Amer. J.
Ophthal., Vol. 118, pp. 445-450 (1994); K. Takahashi, et al., "Cellular Markers that Distinguish
the Phases of Hemangioma during Infancy and Childhood," J. Clin. Invest., Vol. 93, pp. 2357
2364 (1994); D. J. Peacock, et al., "Angiogenesis Inhibition Suppresses Collagen Arthritis," J.
Exp. Med., Vol. 175, pp. 1135-1138 (1992); B. J. Nickoloff, et al., "Aberrant Production of
Interleukin-8 and Thrombospondin-1 by Psoriatic Keratinocytes Mediates Angiogenesis," Amer.
J. Pathol., Vol. 44, pp. 820-828 (1994); J. Folkman, "Angiogenesis in Female Reproductive
Organs," in: Steroid Hormones and Uterine Bleeding, N. J. Alexander and C. d'Arcangues, Eds.,
American Association for the Advancement of Science Press, Washington, D.C., U.S.A., pp.
144-158 (1992)].
                                                   23

          In many of the above-mentioned abnormalities, unrestrained new capillary growth itself
 contributes to the disease process. For example, in arthritis, new capillaries may invade and
 destroy joint cartilege. In diabetes, new capillaries in the eye hemorrhage and cause blindness. It
 is also possible that certain developmental disorders, such as intestinal atresia, vascular
 malformations, and unilateral fasial atrophy, may be due to angiogenic abnormality [J. Folkman,
 ibid. (1995)].
          As described in U.S. Patent No. 6,090,814, which is incorporated by reference herein in
 its entirety, halofuginone has been shown to be an effective angiogenesis inhibitor in cell lines.
 Halofuginone was also shown to be a strong inhibitor of DNA synthesis in human
 leiomyosarcoma tumor cells at low concentrations, regardless of whether the cells are stimulated
 by serum or by a potent growth-promoting factor such as HB-EGF.
 Malaria
          Malaria is an infectious disease caused by four protozoan parasites: Plasmodium
falciparum; Plasmodium vivax; Plasmodium ovale; Plasmodium berghei; and Plasmodium
 malaria. These four parasites are typically transmitted by the bite of an infected female
 Anopheles mosquito. Malaria is a problem in many parts of the world and over the last few
 decades the malaria burden has steadily increased. An estimated 1 to 3 million people die every
 year from malaria - mostly children under the age of 5. This increase in malaria mortality is due
 in part to the fact that Plasmodiumfalciparum,the deadliest malaria parasite, has acquired
 resistance against most available antimalarial drugs.
          As described in Jiang, S. et al. AntimicrobialAgents and Chemotherapy 49(3): 1169
 1176, 2005, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety, halofuginone was shown to reduce
 parasitemias to undetectable levels and displayed curative effects in Plasmodium berghei
 infected mice. Therefore, an oral dosage form comprising halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically
 acceptable salt thereof, e.g. halofuginone hydrobromide, can be used for treating Plasmodium
 related diseases, e.g., malaria. Accordingly, provided herein are methods for preventing or
 treating malaria in a subject in need of such treatment, which method comprises administering to
 the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an oral dosage form comprising halofuginone,
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g. halofuginone hydrobromide.
                                                    24

Autoimmune diseases and immune related disorders
         Exemplary autoimmune diseases and immune related disorders include those of the
respiratory tract, such as obstructive diseases of airways including: chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD) (such as irreversible COPD); asthma I such as bronchial, allergic,
intrinsic, extrinsic or dust asthma, particularly chronic or inveterate asthma (for example late
 asthma or airways hyper-responsiveness) 1; bronchitis I such as eosinophilic bronchitis }; acute,
 allergic, atrophic rhinitis or chronic rhinitis including rhinitis caseosa, hypertrophic rhinitis,
rhinitis purulenta, rhinitis sicca or rhinitis medicamentosa; membranous rhinitis including
croupous, fibrinous or pseudomembranous rhinitis or scrofoulous rhinitis; seasonal rhinitis
including rhinitis nervosa (hay fever) or vasomotor rhinitis; sarcoidosis; farmer's lung and related
diseases; nasal polyposis; fibroid lung, idiopathic interstitial pneumonia, antitussive activity,
treatment of chronic cough associated with inflammatory conditions of the airways or iatrogenic
induced cough. Exemplary autoimmune diseases and immune related disorders of the bone and
joint arthritis including rheumatic, infectious, autoimmune, seronegative spondyloarthropathies
 (such as ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis or Reiter's disease), Behcet's disease, Sjogren's
 syndrome or systemic sclerosis. Exemplary autoimmune diseases and immune related disorders
 of the skin and eyes include psoriasis, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis or other eczmatous
dermitides, seborrhoetic dermatitis, Lichen planus, Phemphigus, bullous Phemphigus,
Epidermolysis bullosa, urticaria, angiodermas, vasculitides erythemas, cutaneous eosinophilias,
uveitis, Alopecia areata or vernal conjunctivitis. Exemplary autoimmune diseases and immune
related diroders fo the GI tract include Coeliac disease, proctitis, eosinophilic gastro-enteritis,
mastocytosis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, irritable bowel disease or food-related allergies
which have effects remote from the gut (for example migraine, rhinitis or eczema). The
compounds described herein can also be used to treat allograft rejection, for example, acute and
chronic following, for example, transplantation of kidney, heart, liver, lung, bone marrow, skin
 or cornea; or chronic graft versus host disease. Other exemplary autoimmune diseases and
immune related disorders include Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, atherosclerosis,
Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS), Lupus disorders (such as lupus erythematosus
 or systemic lupus), erythematosus, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, myasthenia gravis, type I diabetes,
nephrotic syndrome, eosinophilia fascitis, hyper IgE syndrome, leprosy (such as lepromatous
                                                     25

leprosy), Peridontal disease, Sezary syndrome, idiopathic thrombocytopenia pupura or disorders
of the menstrual cycle.
Multiple Sclerosis
         Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neuromuscular disease characterized by focal inflammatory
and autoimmune degeneration of cerebral white matter. White matter becomes inflamed, and
inflammation is followed by destruction of myelin (forming "lesions" which are marked by an
infiltration of numerous immune cells, especially T-cell lymphocytes and macrophages. MS can
cause a slowing or complete block of nerve impulse transmission and, thus, diminished or lost
bodily function. A patient who has MS may have one of a variety of grade of MS (e.g.,
relapsing-remitting MS, primary progressive MS, secondary progressive, and Marburg's variant
MS). Symptoms can include vision problems such as blurred or double vision, redgreen color
distortion, or even blindness in one eye, muscle weakness in the extremities, coordination and
balance problems, muscle spasticity, muscle fatigue, paresthesias, fleeting abnormal sensory
feelings such as numbness, prickling, or "pins and needles" sensations, and in the worst cases,
partial or complete paralysis. About half of the people suffering from MS also experience
cognitive impairments, such as for example, poor
concentration, attention, memory and/or judgment. (see, e.g., US 5 2003-0130357 and 2003
0092089).
Scleroderma
          Scleroderma is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease (primarily of the skin -"derma"),
and can be characterized by fibrosis (or hardening -sclero"), vascular alterations, and
autoantibodies. There are two major forms of Scleroderma:
         Limited systemic sclerosis/scleroderma involves cutaneous manifestations that mainly
affect the hands, arms, and face. It was previously called CREST syndrome in reference to the
following complications: Calcinosis, Raynaud's phenomenon, Esophageal dysfunction,
Sclerodactyly, and Telangiectasias. Additionally, pulmonary arterial hypertension may occur in
up to one-third of patients and is the most serious complication for this form of scleroderma.
Diffuse systemic sclerosis/scleroderma is rapidly progressing and affects a large area of the skin
and one or more internal organs, frequently the kidneys, esophagus, heart, and lungs. This form
                                                  26

of scleroderma can be quite disabling. There are no treatments for scleroderma itself, but
individual organ system complications are treated. Other forms of scleroderma include systemic
sine scleroderma (which lacks skin changes but has systemic manifestations) and two localized
forms, morphea and linear scleroderma, which affect the skin but not the internal organs.
                                            EXAMPLES
        The disclosure is further described in the following examples, which do not limit the
scope of the claims.
EXAMPLE A - Release profile of coated and uncoated halofuginone tablets.
        Halofuginone (7-Bromo-6-chloro-3-[3-[(2S,3R)-3-hydroxy-2-piperidinyl]-2-oxopropyl]
4-quinazolinone) hydrobromide was blended with lactose at 2% (wt/wt) and hand filled into size
4 capsules, approximately 50 mg (non-enteric capsules). Test capsules were evaluated using
HPLC and found to contain between 0.98 and 1.02 g of halofuginone hydrobromide. Some non
enteric capsules were coated with an enteric coating (below), while others will be used as a
control against the enteric-coated capsules.
        Halofuginone hydrobromide non-enteric capsules were coated in a pan coater with a
hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC) undercoat (to ensure tablet closure) followed by a
poly(methacrylic acid-co-ethyl acrylate) enteric coating (Eudragit L30 D-55, Evonik, Essen,
Germany). The dissolution properties of the enteric-coated and the non-enteric coated capsules
were then evaluated in simulated gastric conditions and simulated intestinal conditions at 37 'C.
[See, Dressman, "Dissolution Media Simulating Conditions in the Proximal Human
Gastrointestinal Tract: An Update," Pharmaceutical Research, vol. 25, 1663-1676 (2008), for
simulated formulations.] Three tablets were evaluated for each combination, e.g., three enteric
coated tablets in simulated gastric conditions, three non-enteric coated tablets in simulated
gastric conditions, etc. Each tablet was placed in the respective fluid and then weighed at several
time points to produce a dissolution profile as a function of time.
                                                  27

Table Al - Average dissolution time in simulated gastric environment.
Time in solution (min)             Enteric-coated capsule             Non-enteric-coated capsule
                                   (% dissolved)                      (% dissolved)
                              15                                   0                           94.074
                              30                                   0                           96.134
                              45                                   0                           96.945
                              60                                   0                           97.812
Table A2 - Average dissolution time in simulated intestinal environment.
Time in solution (min)             Enteric-coated capsule             Non-enteric-coated capsule
                                   (% dissolved)                      (% dissolved)
                              30                               4.107                           85.582
                              60                              70.833                           92.052
                              90                              91.231                             91.42
                             120                              90.618                           92.183
                             180                              90.056                           91.893
                             210                              91.618                           95.014
        As shown in Tables Al and A2 and FIG. 1A, the enteric coated capsules did not dissolve
in simulated gastric conditions, while the non-enteric coated capsules dissolved in the gastric
conditions. Additionally, as shown in FIG. IB, the enteric coated capsule dissolved in the
simulated intestinal conditions as did the non-enteric coated capsule.
EXAMPLE B - Administration of enteric-coated halofuginone hydrobromide in beagle
dogs
        Five groups of five male beagle dogs (25 total dogs) were orally administered various
compositions of halofuginone solutions. One group of five was administered a clear 0.15 mg/kg
aqueous solution comprising lactic acid; one group was administered non-enteric-coated capsules
of Example A at 0.10 mg/kg; one group was administered non-enteric-coated capsules of
Example A at 0.15 mg/kg; one group was administered enteric-coated capsules of Example A at
0.10 mg/kg; one group was administered enteric-coated capsules of Example A at 0.15 mg/kg.
The dogs were fasted overnight prior to administration, and food was returned four hours post
administration. Plasma was drawn from each animal at the time of administration, and then at
eight successive time points (0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24, and 48 hours post-administration).
Additionally, each dog was observed for 48 hours and any physiological changes were noted. As
                                                   28

can be seen by comparing Tables B2 and B4 to Tables B3 and B5, the cohorts that were
administered the enteric-coated capsules had fewer digestive problems, and less severe digestive
problems, than the cohorts that were administered the non-enteric-coated capsules.
Table B1-Observations of beagle dogs orally administered 0.15 mg/kg halofuginone as aqueous
solution.
 Animal #    Time of Observation                       Clinical Observation
                  (h postdose)
             ~0.75               Animal produced white foamy emesis.
             ~1                  Animal had white foamy emesis.
   B1-1      ~1.5                Animal produced 2 instances of white foamy emesis.
             24                  Animal was observed to have a red tint to its urine.
            48                   Animal's urine was normal in color.
             Following 0.25      Animal produced clear foamy emesis.
             Prior to 0.75       Animal produced 2 episodes of white foamy emesis.
             ~0.75               Animal produced white foamy emesis.
   B1-2      Prior to 1          Animal had white foamy emesis.
             ~1                  Animal had white foamy nemesis.
             ~1.25               Animal had clear to white foamy emesis.
             Prior to 1.5        Animal produced white foamy emesis.
             ~1.5                Animal had white foamy emesis.
             Prior to 0.5        Animal had 2 instances of foamy clear emesis under home cage.
             Prior to 0.75       Animal produced 2 episodes of white foamy emesis.
             ~0.75               Animal produced white foamy emesis.
   B1-3     '1.25                Animal had clear to white foamy emesis.
            '1.5                 Animal produced white foamy emesis.
             Prior to 2          Animal produced white foamy emesis.
             2                   Animal had reduced activity and showed some trembling.
             Following 0.5       Animal produced white foamy emesis.
             ~0.75               Animal had white foamy emesis.
   B1-4     '1                   Animal had white foamy emesis.
            '1.25                Animal had clear to white foamy emesis.
             Prior to 1.5        Animal produced white foamy emesis.
             Following 0.75      Animal had white foamy emesis.
             Following 1         Animal had clear to white foamy emesis.
   B1-5     '1.5                 Animal produced white foamy emesis.
             2                   Animal showed an increase in salivation.
             8                   Animal had soft mucoidal stool along with normal stool.
                                                   29

Table B2-Observations of beagle dogs orally administered 0.10 mg/kg halofuginone in non-enteric
coated capsule.
 Animal #    Time of Observation                           Clinical Observation
                      ~1.25       Animal had a large amount of yellow foamy emesis.
   B2-1               ~1.75       Animal had white foamy emesis.
                       12         Animal had white foamy emesis.
             ~1min following dose Animal had white foamy emesis that contained a partial capsule
   B2-2         administration    that was unrecoverable.
                  Prior to 0.5    Animal had a small amount of white foamy emesis.
                  Prior to 0.5    Animal had a small amount of white foamy emesis.
    32-3         Prior to 0.75    Animal had a large amount of white foamy emesis.
                Following 0.75    Animal had white foamy emesis.
                   Prior to 1     Animal had white foamy emesis.
   B2-4               ~1.25       Animal had yellow foamy emesis.
                      '1.5        Animal had 2 occurances of white foamy emesis.
   B2-5              '1.75        Animal had yellow foamy emesis.
Table B3-Observations of beagle dogs orally administered 0.10 mg/kg halofuginone in enteric coated
capsule.
 Animal #    Time of Observation  Clinical Observation
                 (h postdose)
           Prior to 2             Animal had a small amount of clear to white foamy emesis.
   B3-1
           ~7                     Animal had 2 occurances of yellow foamy emesis.
           24                     Animal has a small amount of loose stool.
   B3-2
           48                     Animal had a small amount of partially digested food emesis.
   B3-3    N/A                    No unusal observations were noted for Week 3.
   B33-4   Predose                Animal had 5 occurances of emesis. (White foamy emesis or
                                  partially digested food emesis.)
           24                     Animal had a small amount of partially digested food emesis.
   B3-5    1                      Animal had a small amount of mucoidal stool.
           4                      Animal had a small amount of yellow emesis.
                                                       30

Table B4-Observations of beagle dogs orally administered 0.20 mg/kg halofuginone in non-enteric
coated capsule.
 Animal #    Time of Observation  Clinical Observation
                 (h postdose)
   B4-1    N/A                    No unusal observations noted for Week 2.
   B4-2    Following 1.75         Animal had white foamy emesis.
           12                     Animal had loose mucoidal stool.
           Prior to 0.5           Animal had white foamy emesis.
   B4-3    Following the 1.25     Animal had white foamy emesis.
           ~1.75                  Animal had white foamy emesis.
           Prior to 0.5           Animal had white foamy emesis.
           Following 0.5          Animal had white foamy emesis.
   B4-4    Following 0.75         Animal had white foamy emesis.
           Following 1.25         Animal had white foamy nemesis.
           ~2                     Animal had white foamy emesis.
           4                      Animal had white foamy emesis.
           Prior to 0.5           Animal had white foamy emesis.
           Prior to 0.75          Animal had white foamy emesis.
           Prior to 1             Animal had yellow foamy emesis.
              i4-5
           ~1.25                  Animal had white foamy emesis.
           Following 1.25         Animal had white foamy emesis.
           Following 1.5          Animal had 2 occurances of white foamy nemesis.
           ~2                     Animal had white foamy emesis.
           4                      Animal had white foamy emesis.
Table B5-Observations of beagle dogs orally administered 0.20 mg/kg halofuginone in enteric coated
capsule.
 Animal #    Time of Observation  Clinical Observation
                 (h postdose)
   B5-1               N/A         No unusal observations were noted for Week 3.
   B5-2               N/A         No unusal observations were noted for Week 3.
   B5-3                 4         Animal had white foamy emesis.
             Immediely following Animal had white foamy emesis containing both capsules.
             dose administration. Capsules were recovered, animal was re-dosed at this time.
   B5-4          Following 1.5    Animal had 2 occurances of white foamy emesis.
                   Prior to 2     Animal had 4 occurances of foamy white emesis.
                        4         Animal had white foamy emesis.
   B5-5                 4         Animal had white foamy emesis.
                       24         Animal has a small amount of soft to loose stool.
                                                       31

Plasma Analysis
                   The plasma samples, collected from the dogs at the various time points, were
assayed for halofuginone concentrations using HPLC-MS/MS (ACE Excel 2C18 AR, 50 x 2.1
mm column). The averaged results of the assays for each dosage regimen are shown in FIGS. 2
6. The averaged results of several pharmacokinetic parameters for each dosage regiment are
shown in TABLES B6 and B7. [Cmax: maximum observed halofuginone concentration; tmax: time
point at Cmax; AUC(O-t):           AUC to the last non-zero concentration (t is the corresponding
time); AUC(O_,): AUC(O_,)= AUC(o-t) + AUC          (t_,); t 1/ 2 : half-life; time taken for drug plasma
concentration to fall by one- half; Vzobs: observed volume of distribution; Clobs: observed
clearance]
Table B6 - Pharmacokinetic parameters of halofuginone in the plasma of male beagle dogs following
administration of 0.15 mg/kg of aqueous solution, 0.10 mg/kg of non-enteric-coated capsules, or 0.10
mg/kg of enteric-coated capsules.
                          Clear Solution         Non-Enteric Coated               Enteric Coated Capsules
    Parameter              0.15 mg/kg                   Capsule                          0.10 mg/kg
       (units)                                        0.10 mg/kg
                       Mean             SD      Mean                   SD           Mean            SD
   Cmax (ng/mL)        5.26            1.10      2.54                 1.14          3.76           1.53
     tmax (hr)         0.90            0.65       1.50                0.58          1.20           0.45
                       39.50          14.00      25.47               12.50          33.45         16.91
    (ngehrrL)
                       49.08          17.87      37.53               18.69          43.58         18.25
    (nghr/mL)
      t 1 / 2 (hr)     14.82           4.55      18.96                8.01          18.46          7.70
  Vz_obs (L/kg)        70.73          24.54      81.72               48.89          62.35         30.20
                       3.47            1.51      3.14                 1.51          2.51           0.96
     (L/hr/kg)
                                                     32

Table B7 - Pharmacokinetic parameters of halofuginone in the plasma of male beagle dogs following
administration of 0.20 mg/kg of non-enteric-coated capsules or 0.20 mg/kg of enteric-coated
capsules.
                       Non-Enteric Coated Capsule Enteric Coated Capsules
    Parameter                 0.20 mg/kg                 0.20 mg/kg
                        Mean              SD        Mean            SD
   Cmax (ng/mL)          5.64            2.42        7.18          2.14
     tmax (hr)           1.10            0.82        1.60          0.55
                        42.88            15.66      63.43         23.27
    (ngehrrL)
                        51.06            15.65      72.18         23.86
    (nghr/mL)
      t 1 / 2 (hr)      13.62            3.83       13.58          2.88
   Vz_obs (L/kg)        78.51           23.64       57.08         21.74
                         4.09            1.25        3.06          1.49
     (L/hr/kg)
              As shown in Table B6 and B7, above, the average Cmax for the enteric-coated capsules
was higher than the Cmax for the non-enteric-coated capsules for the same administration of
halofuginone. Presumably, the difference is due to the location of the absorption (stomach vs.
intestine) and/or the undesired destruction of halofuginone in the lower pH environment of the
stomach.
EXAMPLE C - Administration of oral and parenteral forms of halofuginone
Study design
              Two groups of 6 male Beagle dogs were dosed with two formulations or two routes of
  administration of Halofuginone hydrobromide. In a cross-over study design, one group
  received an oral (PO) dose at -0.15 mg/kg as enteric-coated (EC) tablets in a gelatin capsule
  and then another oral dose at 0.15 mg/kg as a solution 7 days later. The second group received
  a subcutaneous (SC) dose at 0.03 mg/kg as a solution and then an intravenous (IV) dose at 0.05
  mg/kg as a solution. The test article was administered once for each dose level and dosage
  form. The animals were dosed once a week or after completing at least a 7 day washout period.
  The dose formulations of Halofuginone hydrobromide were EC tablets or 0.3 mg/mL solutions.
  The EC tablets contained 0.075 mg of Halofuginone hydrobromide. The tablets (20/dog) were
  loaded into a gelatin capsule prior to dosing. This study was conducted to confirm that the
                                                    33

 clinical tablet formulation has similar gastrointestinal (GI) sparing characteristics as the hand
 packed experimental capsules used in a previous study and to determine the absolute
 bioavailability of these formulations. Dogs were selected because prior GLP-compliant
 toxicology results suggested this was the most sensitive species in which to observe the
 expected adverse GI effects. Study Design is summarized in Figure 7.
Figure 7. Study Design
                                                                           Treatment
 Groupa Week           No.                                       Dose          DsFedn
                     Dogs      Test Article    (mg g)        (mg      L)    Volume          Dose Form       Route    FSetaus
                                                      (mg/kg)(mg/mL           mStatu
                  1      6     Halofuginone       ~0.15b         N/A           N/A        Enteric Coated      PO      Fasted
     1                        hydrobromide                                                      Tablet
                  2      6     Halofuginone       0.15           0.30          0.50            Solution       PO      Fasted
                              hydrobromide
                  1      6     Halofuginone       0.03           0.30          0.10            Solution       SC      Fasted
     2                        hydrobromide
                  2      6     Halofuginone       0.05           0.30          0.17            Solution       IV      Fasted
         ________     ____    hydrobromide  I____          I____         I____       I________           I___     I_
  N/A = not applicable. Correction Factor = 1.0. The density of the formulations was assumed to be 1 g/mL. Dogs
  had received daily oral doses of 0.15 mg/kg/day for up to 28 days that was tolerated but with animals exhibiting
  emesis and decreased activity during the first week. This study does not unnecessarily duplicate previous studies.
  aThe same animals were used in each group dosed as a cross over design 7 days apart. bAnimals received 20
  tablets in a size 000 gelatin capsule.
  Test Article Storage: Room Temp                   Residual Dose Formulation Storage: -20 ± 5 'C
  Overnight Fast: Yes                               Food Returned: 4 h postdose
          The dose levels were selected based on the results of a previous study in dogs in
 which the high-dose group was dosed at 0.15 mg/kg/day for up to 28 days (this dose was
 tolerated for the entire course of the study). Clinical signs of toxicity in that study
 included emesis and decreased activity during the first week of dosing.
 Clinical observations
          Each animal received a physical examination prior to dosing, with cage side
 observations for mortality and morbidity twice daily thereafter. Detailed clinical observations
 were performed prior to dosing and at 15 minute (min) intervals during the first 2 hours (h)
 postdose, at 4, 8, and 24 h postdose on dosing days. Observations included, but were not
 limited to, monitoring for emesis and gastrointestinal effects, evaluation of the skin, fur, eyes,
                                                               34

ears, nose, oral cavity, thorax, abdomen, external genitalia, limbs and feet, respiratory and
circulatory effects, autonomic effects such as salivation, nervous system effects including
tremors, convulsions,
reactivity to handling, and unusual behavior.     Body weights were obtained on the day prior to
dosing to determine dosing solution volume. See Tables C1-C14 for a complete list of the
clinical observations.
Table CI. Clinical Observations in Beagle Dogs Following a Single 0.15 mg/kg Oral
Administration as Enteric-Coated Tablets
                                Time of
 Group    Week    Animal #    Observation                         Clinical Observation
                              (h postdose)
                      1            12      Loose stool
                      2            12      Loose stool
                                  1.75     Yellow, foamy emesis
                      3                    Soft stool and three separate episodes of yellow, foamy emesis in
                                           a 9 minute time span
    1       1         4             8      Loose stool
                                   12      Mucoidal stool
                      5             1      Yellow, foamy emesis
                                  1.25     Yellow, foamy emesis
                                    4      Loose stool
                      6
                                   24      Loose/mucoidal stool
                                                  35

Table C12. Clinical Observations in Beagle Dogs Following a Single 0.15 mg/kg Oral
Administration as a Clear Solution
                   Animal   Time of
 Group     Week           Observation                        Clinical Observation
                          (h postdose)
                               0.4     Foamy, white emesis
                      1         12     Soft Stool
                               48      Soft Stool
                      2         12     Soft Stool
                      3      0.33-1    Eight separate episodes of emesis, all white foam
                                 2     Lethargic and was shaking
                      4       0.25     Foamy, white emesis
              2                0.5     Foamy, white emesis
    1
                      5       0.66     Foamy, white emesis
                               0.9     Foamy, white emesis
                               1.66    Loose stool
                              0.25     Foamy, white emesis
                               0.5     Foamy, white emesis
                      6       0.66     Foamy, white emesis
                               0.9     Foamy, white emesis
                                 1     Foamy, white emesis
Table C13. Clinical Observations in Beagle Dogs Following a Single 0.03 mg/kg
Subcutaneous Administration as a Clear Solution
                   Animal   Time of
 Group    Week            Observation                        Clinical Observation
                          (h postdose)
                     7
                      8
                      9
   2          1
                     10
                     11        -
                     12
  - not applicable
                                              36

Table C14. Clinical Observations in Beagle Dogs Following a Single 0.05 mg/kg
Intravenous Administration as a Clear Solution
                     Animal     Time of
  Group     Week              Observation                    Clinical Observation
                              (h postdose)
                        7
                        8
                        9            8     Soft stool
     2          2
                       10          12      Soft Stool
                       11          -
                       12          48      Soft Stool
    - not applicable
 Pharmacokineticanalysis
         Blood samples were collected from the jugular, cephalic, or saphenous veins into
 tubes containing EDTA at the following time points: 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24, and 48 h
 postdose. Blood samples were kept on wet ice until processing. Blood samples were
 centrifuged at 3200 RPM for 10 min at -5 'C. Plasma samples were directly transferred
 to a 96-well plate tube (1.1 mL). Plug caps were placed on the tubes. Plasma samples
 were stored at -20 ± 5 'C until they were shipped for analysis.
                                                  37

            7a                 "R~~ e     eI         "0 0    0l
                          C:                  If        CD0 eCDi~0
   .-            CD          c     t      o      l
                     C:
                 CD  oc               000         ,r      o
               0                          4
       0                           CD       o  N             C
                 CD0                    -   o    -r       0r
                                                        CD   C
 ~
-~        0
      0to                             CA                 to
                        .                               CA
      S3

                              14      04;O      F    ~ e
                                      00    0-00       00       e
  0n    tr                 C)    c      cn    C '] oc' o-    m
     M-     -     '              o.    t   ol   QC K     ' t C)
oo
               CD'                            cn c'] 6 6N
     _-    1o- t-   -c                                       C
                                  , 6       C'         C      :
07                                                           o
                       C']            CA -t
                                           ~~39

                                     No 0c  N   I 't
                N      n   cr-oco           000
         oo
      oc    6
            CD0          O
0
       oC                               tC~ oc       oc
  F*~    L        ---.
      o                           40

                 W    r-  0c  OC      No    0
  oo
                   CA CA] mP       r     0,
   0,
  0 ~ ~ '     Ct          tC]       '
0
                   ~:         C']           CA~
          000
                                  41

Table C5. Summary Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Halofuginone hydrobromide in
the Plasma of Beagle Dogs Following a 0.15 mg/kg Solution or Capsule PO
Administration
                                        Group 1
                                   Week 1                   Week 2
                         Enteric Coated Tablets             Wekl
   Parameter               in a Gelatin Capsule               Oral
       (units)                   0.15 mg/kg               0.15 mg/kg
                           Mean              SD    Mean               SD
  Cm. (ng/nL)               5.97            2.20    6.54             2.95
      tm.(h)                1.33            0.52    0.58             0.20
     AUC(ot)               55.86            15.56  41.45             14.69
    (ng-h/ni)          ______
     AUC(o_)               61.83            18.04  47.44             17.47
    (ng-h/iTL)       _______           __     ____
       t1 / 2 (h)          14.36             1.19   13.50             1.32
           %F             112.78            N/A     83.69            N/A
N/A = not applicable
Table C6. Summary Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Halofuginone hydrobromide in
the Plasma of Beagle Dogs Following a 0.03 mg/kg Subcutaneous or 0.05 mg/kg
Intravenous Administration
                                        Group 2
                                   Week 1                   Week 2
   Parameter                   Subcutaneous              Intravenous
       (units)                   0.03 mg/kg               0.05 mg/kg
                          Mean               SD    Mean               SD
  Cma (ng/mL)               3.66            0.90    6.95             1.01
      tm. (h)               0.50            0.00    0.08             0.00
     AUC(ot)               16.22            7.02   16.51             7.01
    (ng-h/imL)
     AUC(o_)               19.57            7.06   24.49             6.81
    (ng-h/imL)
       t 1/2 (h)           12.63            4.91   10.35             1.47
           %F             163.79            N/A     N/A              N/A
N/A = not applicable
                                                    42

Table C7. Individual Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Halofuginone hydrobromide in the
Plasma of Beagle Dogs Following a Single 0.15 mg/kg Oral Administration as Enteric
Coated Tablets
  Parameter                                    Dog                     Mean        SD
     (units)        1                 2     3         4     5     6
 Cm. (ng/nL)      2.56              4.91  8.28      5.42  8.34  6.31    5.97      2.20
    tm.(h)        1.00              1.00 2.00       1.00  1.00 2.00     1.33      0.52
   AUC(ot)       49.07            55.56  80.61     33.28 54.47 62.16   55.86     15.56
  (ng-h/niQ
   AUC(o_)       56.23             60.99 91.22     35.72 58.74 68.10   61.83     18.04
  (ng-h/niQ    ____________________
     t1 /2 (h)   13.79             13.95 16.72     14.05 13.44 14.21   14.36       1.19
Table C8. Individual Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Halofuginone hydrobromide in the
Plasma of Beagle Dogs Following a Single 0.15 mg/kg Oral Administration as a Clear
Solution
  Parameter                                    Dog                     Mean        SD
    (units)         1                 2     3         4     5     6
 Cm. (ng/nL)     11.57              3.83  3.78      6.05  8.15 5.87     6.54      2.95
    tm.(h)        0.50              1.00 0.50       0.50  0.50 0.50     0.58      0.20
   AUC(ot)       56.12            45.05  22.99     23.10 49.92 51.52   41.45     14.69
  (ng-h/niQ
   AUC(o_)       71.29            50.70  25.02     28.86 53.32 55.45   47.44     17.47
  (ng-h/niQ    ____________________
     t1 /2 (h)   12.82             15.66 14.06     11.74 13.11 13.63   13.50       1.32
                                                   43

Table C9. Individual Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Halofuginone hydrobromide in the
Plasma of Beagle Dogs Following a Single 0.03 mg/kg Subcutaneous Administration as a
Clear Solution
   Parameter                                         Dog                                Mean       SD
      (units)               7           8         9           10    11         12
  Cm. (ng/nL)             2.82        2.95     2.98         5.07  4.29        3.82       3.66      0.90
     tm.(h)               0.50        0.50     0.50         0.50   0.50      0.50        0.50      0.00
    AUC(ot)              11.77        8.75     11.77      26.90   22.29      15.87      16.22      7.02
   (ng-h/niQ
    AUC(o_)              12.95       13.73     16.87       30.88  25.26      17.71      19.57      7.06
   (ng-h/niQ           ____        ____      ____        ____
      t1 /2 (h)           7.44        9.08    16.84        17.27  17.16       8.00      12.63      4.91
Table 10. Individual Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Halofuginone hydrobromide in the
Plasma of Beagle Dogs Following a Single 0.05 mg/kg Intravenous Administration as a
Clear Solution
   Parameter                                         Dog                                Mean       SD
     (units)                7           8         9           10    11         12
  Cm. (ng/nL)             7.81        6.64     5.12         7.42   7.80       6.88       6.95      1.01
     tm. (h)              0.08        0.08     0.08         0.08   0.08      0.08        0.08      0.00
    AUC(ot)              13.50       12.22     11.70       30.09  17.98      13.56      16.51      7.01
   (ng-h/imL)
    AUC(o_)              22.56       17.76    20.91        36.32  28.57      20.80      24.49      6.81
   (ng-h/niQ           ____        ____      ____        ____
      t1 /2 (h)          12.32        8.93    12.04        10.03   9.65       9.12      10.35      1.47
            Statistical analysis of PK parameters for dogs treated with both enteric and oral solutions
were calculated using Excel® spreadsheets. Summary statistics were derived for the following
PK parameters for each dog receiving both the dog EC tablets and the oral drug as a clear
solution in Group 1:
-            Cmax (ng/mL): Maximum Observed Concentration
-            tmax (h): Time Point at Cmax
-            AUC(O-t) (ng-h/mL): AUC to the last non-zero concentration (t is the corresponding time)
-            AUC(O-o) (ng-h/mL): AUC(o_,) = AUC(o-t) + AUC (t-,)
-            ti,2 (h): Half-life; time taken for drug plasma concentration to fall by one- half
-            %F: Bioavailability; [AUC(o-t) X*Dose IV (mg/kg)] / [AUC(o-t) IV * Dose X (mg/kg)]
                                                          44

Paired differences for each dog were determined by subtracting the summary PK value as
follows:
Summary PK (Dog Enteric Coated Tablets) - Summary PK (Drug Oral as Clear Solution)
The descriptive statistics for each of the paired differences was determined and a one sample t
test was performed testing the null hypothesis that the mean of the difference was equal to zero
versus the alternative that it is not equal to zero.
        Table C15 presents the results of the descriptive statistics and the p-values of the one
sample t-test. In addition a Wilcoxon signed rank test was also performed but is not presented in
the table. The results from Table C15 indicate that the tma, (h) for the paired difference t-test was
statistically significant (p = 0.03). The 95% Confidence interval is (0.107, 1.393). The paired
differences for the other PK parameters were not statistically significant.
Table C15. Summary of Descriptive Statistics: Change of PK Parameter for Dog
Enteric- Coated Tablets - Drug Oral as Clear Solution
     PK Parameter             N        Mean      Median       SD         Min        Max      p-value
  (Enteric-Oral clear)                                                                        t-test
      Cmx (ng/nL)           6.000      -0.572     0.315      4.500      -9.010     4.500       0.77
         tm. (h)            6.000       0.750     0.500      0.612      0.000       1.500      0.03
   AUC(Ot) (ng-h/nL)        6.000      14.408     10.345    22.236      -7.050     57.620      0.17
   AUC(o.)(ng-h/nL)         6.000      14.393     8.575     27.234     -15.060     66.200      0.25
          t1o (h)           6.000       0.857     0.775      1.570      -1.710     2.660       0.24
The p-value for the Wilcoxon signed rank test with continuity correction testing the paired
difference of the time to tax (h) was p = 0.053 which is still borderline statistically significant.
Statistical Summary
*   Overall, there is a clear trend showing an extended time to maximum concentration (tma)
    with the tablets and higher exposure with the EC vs. a solution at the same relative dose
    level.
                                                     45

*   Based on a paired t-test, the data on the Group 1 dogs extended the time to maximum
    concentration (tma) by 0.75 h on average (p = 0.03) when treated with the EC tablets
    compared with a solution at the same relative dose level.
*   The average Cmax (ng/mL) of the paired differences was slightly lower in the EC tablets
    compared with the oral formulation as a clear solution. However, the difference was not
    statistically significant.
*   Paired differences for other PK parameters suggest that there was a slight trend for the
    AUC summary statistics to be higher for the EC tablets compared with the oral
    formulation as a clear solution, but this was not statistically significant.
Results
       Halofuginone hydrobromide was well tolerated when dosed as a SC or IV solution. It
 was tolerated with some GI effects noted when dosed orally as EC tablets and as a solution,
 with substantially fewer GI effects observed with administration of the EC tablets vs. the oral
 solution. (6 episodes of emesis for the EC tablets vs. 18 for the capsules).
       The absolute bioavailability of Halofuginone hydrobromide was increased when it was
 dosed as EC tablets and as a subcutaneous solution versus being dosed as an oral solution.
 This may be a result of the frequent emesis observed after dosing of the oral solution.
       Overall there is a clear trend showing an extended time to tma, with the tablets and a
 higher exposure with the EC tablets vs. the solution. Other PK parameters had some trends
 but did not achieve statistically significant conclusions.
       The EC tablets again showed improved tolerability over the oral dosing solution as was
 observed in a previous PK study. Where 5 of 6 animals dosed with the solution had emesis, only
 2 showed this effect when given a similar dose via EC tablets (in spite of the increase in
 bioavailability). In addition, there were a total of 18 separate emetic events recorded in the
 solution arm but only 6 in the arm receiving EC tablets.
                                                   46

   Conclusion
          Systemic exposure to Halofuginone hydrobromide was demonstrated using EC capsules
   (-0.15 mg/kg), a PO solution (0.15 mg/kg), a SC solution (0.03 mg/kg), and an IV solution
   (0.05 mg/kg). Halofuginone hydrobromide was better tolerated as a SC or IV solution when
5  compared to both PO doses. For the orally-administered formulations, the EC tablets were
   also better tolerated than the same dose given via solution. The tax was significantly
   extended with EC capsules as compared to the PO solution. However, a downward trend was
   noticed for Cm.    The area under the time versus concentration curve (AUC) was slightly
   higher using EC capsules as compared to the PO solution. The half life (t1 2 ) was similar
0  between the two PO formulations and between the SC and IV solutions. The bioavailabilty
   was higher in the EC tablets and the SC dose as compared to the PO solution.
                                      OTHER EMBODIMENTS
5         It is to be understood that while the disclosure has been described in conjunction with the
  detailed description thereof, the foregoing description is intended to illustrate and not limit the
  scope of the disclosure, which is defined by the scope of the appended claims. Other aspects,
  advantages, and modifications are within the scope of the following claims.
                                                     47

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.       An oral dosage form comprising halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide, dissolvable in a basic solution (e.g., pH greater than
6.8, greater than 8, greater than 8.5), wherein not more than 10% of the oral dosage form
dissolves in an acidic solution (e.g., pH less than 6.8, less than 6, less than 5, less than 4, less
than 3).
2.       The oral dosage form of claim 1, wherein the oral dosage form comprises 0.01 to 10 mg
of halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide.
3.       The oral dosage form of claim 1, wherein the oral dosage form comprises 0.1 to 1 mg of
halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide.
4.       The oral dosage form of claim 1, wherein the oral dosage form comprises 0.3 to 0.7 mg
of halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide.
5.       The oral dosage form of claim 1, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of
halofuginone is halofuginone hydrobromide.
6.       The oral dosage form of claim 1, wherein the oral dosage form is an enteric-coated solid
oral dosage form.
7.       The oral dosage form of claim 6, wherein the enteric coating comprises a wax, shellac,
polymer, or plant fiber.
                                                  48

8.      The oral dosage form of claim 7, wherein the polymer is a co-polymer.
9.      The oral dosage form of claim 8, wherein the co-polymer comprises methacrylic acid or
ethylacrylic acid.
10.     The oral dosage form of claim 9, wherein the co-polymer comprises poly(methacrylic
acid-co-ethyl acrylate).
11.     The oral dosage form of claim 1, wherein the oral dosage form is a capsule or tablet.
12.     A method of treating a disorder in a patient in need thereof, the method comprising
administering an enteric-coated oral dosage form comprising 0.01 to 10 mg of halofuginone, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide, to thereby treat the
disorder.
13.     The method of claim 12, wherein the enteric-coated oral dosage form comprises 0.1 to 1
mg of halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone
hydrobromide.
14.     The method of claim 13, wherein the enteric-coated oral dosage form comprises 0.3 to
0.7 mg of halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone
hydrobromide.
15.     The method of claim 12, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of halofuginone is
halofuginone hydrobromide.
                                                 49

16.     An oral dosage form comprising halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, which results in a maximum concentration (Cmax) of at least 3 ng halofuginone/mL of
plasma, when administered to a subject at a dose of 0.1 mg halofuginone/kg of subject weight.
17.     The oral dosage form of claim 16, wherein the subject is a mammal.
18.     The oral dosage form of claim 17, wherein the mammal is a human.
19.     The oral dosage form of claim 18, wherein the oral dosage form comprises an enteric
coating.
20.     An oral dosage form comprising halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, which results in a maximum concentration (Cmax) of at least 6 ng halofuginone/ml of
plasma, when administered to a subject at a dose of 0.2 mg halofuginone/kg of subject weight.
21.     The oral dosage form of claim 20, wherein the subject is a mammal.
22.     The oral dosage form of claim 21, wherein the mammal is a human.
23.     The oral dosage form of claim 22, wherein the oral dosage form comprises an enteric
coating.
24.     An enteric-coated oral dosage form comprising halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide, for use in treating a subject having
been identified with a musculoskeletal disorder.
25.     The enteric-coated oral dosage form of claim 24, for use in treating a subject having been
identified with muscular dystrophy (MD).
                                                 50

26.     The enteric-coated oral dosage form of claim 25, wherein the muscular dystrophy is
selected from the group consisting of Duchenne MD, Becker MD, Emery-Dreifuss MD, Limb
Girdle MD, facioscapulohumeral MD, myotonic dystrophy, oculopharyngeal MD, distal MD,
and congenital MD.
27.     An oral dosage form comprising halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide, for administration to a subject at a dose of at least 0.05
mg halofuginone per kilogram of subject weight, wherein the subject does not experience
gastrointestinal distress (e.g., nausea, vomiting, pain) within eight hours (e.g., within six hours,
e.g., within four hours, e.g., within two hours, e.g., within one hour) of administration.
28.     The oral dosage form of claim 27, wherein the dosage form is administered to a subject at
a dose of at least 0.1mg/kg.
29.     The oral dosage form of claim 27, wherein the oral dosage form comprises 0.1 to 10 mg
of halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide.
30.     The oral dosage form of claim 27, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of
halofuginone is halofuginone hydrobromide.
31.     The oral dosage form of claim 27, wherein the oral dosage form is a solid oral dosage
form comprising an enteric coating.
32.     The oral dosage form of claim 31, wherein the enteric coating comprises a wax, shellac,
polymer, or plant fiber.
33.     The oral dosage form of claim 32, wherein the enteric coating comprises a polymer.
34.     The oral dosage form of claim 33, wherein the polymer is a co-polymer.
                                                   51

35.     The oral dosage form of claim 34, wherein the co-polymer comprises methacrylic acid or
ethylacrylic acid.
36.     The oral dosage form of claim 34, wherein the co-polymer comprises poly(methacrylic
acid-co-ethyl acrylate).
37.     A method of administering an effective amount of halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide, to a subject in need thereof, the method
comprising administering an enteric-coated solid oral dosage form comprising 0.01 to 10 mg of
halofuginone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g., halofuginone hydrobromide,
wherein the subject does not experience gastrointestinal distress (e.g., nausea, vomiting, pain)
within eight hours (e.g., within six hours, e.g., within four hours, e.g., within two hours, e.g.,
within one hour) of administration.
38.     An oral dosage form comprising halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, that results in an area under the plasma concentration time curve (AUC) of at least 40
ng-hour/mL, when administered to a subject at a dose of 0.2 mg halofuginone/kg of subject
weight.
39.      The oral dosage form of claim 38, wherein the subject is a mammal.
40.     The oral dosage form of claim 39, wherein the mammal is a human.
41.     The oral dosage form of claim 40, wherein the oral dosage form comprises an enteric
coating.
42.     A parenteral dosage form comprising halofuginone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof.
                                                   52

43.      The parenteral dosage form of claim 42, wherein the dosage form is a subcutaneous
dosage form.
44.      The parenteral dosage form of claim 42, wherein the dosage form is an intravenous
dosage form.
                                  Akashi Therapeutics, Inc.
                   Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                              53
(14123177 1):GGG

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/9

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
