  1002070541
                                            ABSTRACT
  A force sensor that may compensate for environmental effects, including, for example,
  variations in temperature of the device or the surroundings. In some examples, two force
  sensitive layers are separated by a compliant layer. The relative electrical response of the
5 two force-sensitive layers may be used to compute an estimate of the force of a touch that
  reduces the effect of variations in temperature. In some examples, piezoelectric films having
  anisotropic strain properties are used to reduce the effects of temperature.

   1002070541
                        TEMPERATURE COMPENSATING FORCE SENSOR
   Cross-Reference to Related Applications
   [0001]     This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
   61/926,905, filed January 13, 2014 and titled "Force Sensor Using a Transparent Force
 5 Sensitive Film," U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/937,465, filed February 7, 2014
   and titled "Temperature Compensating Transparent Force Sensor," U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application No. 61/939,257, filed February 12, 2014 and titled "Temperature Compensating
   Transparent Force Sensor," U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/942,021, filed
   February 19, 2014 and titled "Multi-Layer Temperature Compensating Transparent Force
 0 Sensor," and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/024,566, filed July 15, 2014 and
   titled "Strain-Based Transparent Force Sensor," the disclosure of each of which is
   incorporated by reference in its entirety.
   [0001a]     Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2015/010969
   (published as W02015/106183), filed on 12 January 2015.
 5 Technical Field
   [0002]     Embodiments described herein generally relate to force sensing and, more
   particularly, to a temperature compensating force sensor having two or more transparent
   force-sensitive components separated by a compliant layer.
   Background
 O [0003]     Many electronic devices include some type of user input device, including, for
   example, buttons, slides, scroll wheels, and similar devices or user-input elements. Some
   devices may include a touch sensor that is integrated or incorporated with a display screen.
   The touch sensor may allow a user to interact directly with user-interface elements that are
   presented on the display screen. However, some traditional touch sensors may only provide
25 a location of a touch on the device. Other than location of the touch, many traditional touch
   sensors produce an output that is binary in nature. That is, the touch is present or it is not.
   [0004]     In some cases, it may be advantageous to detect and measure the force of a touch
   that is applied to a surface to provide non-binary touch input. However, there may be
   several challenges associated with implementing a force sensor in an electronic device. For
30 example, temperature fluctuations in the device or environment may introduce an
   unacceptable amount of variability in the force measurements. Additionally, if the force
                                                     1

   1002070541
   sensor is incorporated with a display or transparent medium, it may be challenging to
   achieve both sensing performance and optical performance in a compact form factor.
   Summary
   [0004a]      As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term "comprise"
 5 and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised", are not
   intended to exclude further additives, components, integers or steps.
   [0005]      Embodiments described herein may relate to, include, or take the form of an
   optically transparent force sensor, which may be used as input to an electronic device. The
   optically transparent force sensor may be configured to compensate for variations in
 0 temperature using two or more force-sensitive layers that are disposed on opposite sides of
   a compliant layer. In some embodiments, anisotropic piezoelectric materials are used to
   compensate for variations in temperature.
   [0006]      In one example embodiment. an electronic device includes an optically transparent
   force sensor having a first transparent substrate and a first force-sensitive layer disposed
 5 relative to the first transparent substrate. The sensor may also include a second transparent
   substrate disposed below the first substrate and a second force-sensitive layer disposed
   relative to the second transparent substrate. A compliant layer may be disposed between
   the first and second substrates. The sensor may also include sensor circuitry that is
   configured to compare a relative electrical response between the first force-sensitive layer
 O and the second force-sensitive layer to compute a temperature-compensated force estimate.
   In some cases, the temperature-compensated force estimate compensates for variations in
   temperature of the device.
   [0007]      In some embodiments, the first transparent substrate is configured to deflect in
   response to the force of a touch and the compliant layer deforms to reduce any tension or
25 compression of the second transparent substrate. In some cases, the first transparent
   substrate experiences a first amount of tension that is greater than the second transparent
   substrate which experiences a reduced, second amount of tension. In some cases, the first
   transparent substrate deflects to a greater degree than the second transparent substrate in
   response to the force of a touch.
30 [0008]      In some embodiments, the first force-sensitive layer is placed in tension in
   response to the force of a touch and the second force-sensitive layer is placed in
   compression in response to the force of a touch. In some embodiments, the compliant layer
   conducts heat between the first force-sensitive layer and the second force-sensitive layer to
                                                   2

  1002070541
  achieve a substantially uniform temperature distribution. In some embodiments, the first and
  second force-sensitive components are made from materials having substantially identical
  temperature coefficients of resistance. In some embodiments, the compliant layer
  comprises an optically clear adhesive. In some embodiments, the compliant layer is formed
5 from of a material having a shear modulus less than one tenth of the shear modulus of the
  first transparent substrate.
                                               2a

    WO 2015/106183                                                               PCT/US2015/010969
   [0009]     In some embodiments, the first force-sensitive layer is formed from a first array of
   rectilinear force-sensitive components, and the second force-sensitive layer is formed from a
   second array of rectilinear force-sensitive components.
   [0010]     One example embodiment is directed to an electronic device having an optically
 5 transparent force sensor. The force sensor may include a cover (or force-receiving layer)
   and a first transparent substrate disposed below the cover (or force-receiving layer). A first
   array of force-sensitive components may be disposed relative to the first transparent
   substrate. A second transparent substrate may be disposed below the first substrate and a
   second array of force-sensitive components may be disposed relative to the second
10 transparent substrate. A compliant layer may be disposed between the first and second
   substrates. The sensor may also include sensor circuitry that is configured to compare a
   relative electrical response between structures of the first array of force-sensitive
   components and the second array of force-sensitive components to compute a temperature
   compensated force estimate. In some cases, a display element is disposed below the
15 second transparent substrate.
   [0011]     In some embodiments, the first array of force-sensitive components includes a
   subset of edge force-sensitive components positioned along an edge of the first array. The
   edge force-sensitive components may be formed from traces that are oriented along a
   direction that is substantially perpendicular to the edge. In some embodiments, first array of
20 force-sensitive components includes a subset of corner force-sensitive components
   positioned at corners of the first array. The corner force-sensitive components may be
   formed from traces that are oriented along a diagonal direction.
   [0012]     Some example embodiments are directed to an electronic device having an
   optically transparent force sensor including a first transparent substrate, a first force
25 sensitive layer disposed relative to the first transparent substrate, a second transparent
   substrate disposed below the first substrate and a second force-sensitive layer disposed
   relative to the second transparent substrate. The sensor may also include sensor circuitry
   that is configured to detect a voltage between the first force-sensitive layer and the second
   force-sensitive layer to compute a temperature-compensated force estimate. In some
30 embodiments, the first force-sensitive layer is formed from an anisotropic piezoelectric film,
   and the second force-sensitive layer is formed from an isotropic piezoelectric film.
   [0013]     In some embodiments, the sensor also includes a third force-sensitive layer
   disposed relative to the second force-sensitive layer; and a fourth force-sensitive layer
   disposed relative to the third force-sensitive layer. The third force-sensitive layer may be
35 formed from an isotropic piezoelectric film, and the fourth force-sensitive layer may be
                                                     3

    WO 2015/106183                                                                PCT/US2015/010969
   formed from an anisotropic piezoelectric film. In some embodiments, the sensor also
   includes a third transparent substrate disposed between the second force-sensitive layer
   and the third force-sensitive layer. In some cases, the first force-sensitive layer has an
   increased sensitivity to strain along a first direction, and the fourth force-sensitive layer has
 5 an increased sensitivity to strain along a second direction. The first direction may be
   substantially perpendicular to the second direction.
   Brief Description of the Fiqures
   [0014]     Reference will now be made to representative embodiments illustrated in the
   accompanying figures. It should be understood that the following descriptions are not
10 intended to limit the embodiments to one preferred embodiment. To the contrary, it is
   intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents as may be included within the
   spirit and scope of the described embodiments as defined by the appended claims.
   [0015]     FIG. 1 depicts an example electronic device.
   [0016]     FIG. 2A depicts a top view of an example force-sensitive structure including a grid
15 of optically transparent force-sensitive components.
   [0017]     FIG. 2B depicts a top detailed view of an optically transparent serpentine force
   sensitive component which may be used in the example force-sensitive structure depicted in
   FIG. 2A.
   [0018]     FIG. 2C depicts a side view of a portion of an example force-sensitive structure of
20 a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1
   [0019]     FIG. 3A depicts an enlarged detail side view of the example force-sensitive
   structure of FIG. 2C.
   [0020]     FIG. 3B depicts an enlarged detail side view of the example force-sensitive
   structure of FIG. 2C that has been deformed in response to an applied force.
25 [0021]     FIG. 4 depicts a top view of an alternate example of a force-sensitive structure
   including two perpendicular layers each including multiple optically transparent force
   sensitive components.
   [0022]     FIG. 5A depicts a side view of a portion of an alternative example force-sensitive
   structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1.
                                                     4

    WO 2015/106183                                                               PCT/US2015/010969
   [0023]     FIG. 5B depicts a side view of a portion of an alternative example force-sensitive
   structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1.
   [0024]     FIG. 5C depicts a side view of a portion of an alternative example force-sensitive
   structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1.
 5 [0025]      FIG. 5D depicts a side view of a portion of an alternative example force-sensitive
   structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1.
   [0026]     FIG. 5E depicts a side view of a portion of an alternative example force-sensitive
   structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1.
   [0027]     FIG. 5F depicts a side view of a portion of an alternative example force-sensitive
10 structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1.
   [0028]     FIG. 5G depicts a side view of a portion of an alternative example force-sensitive
   structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1.
   [0029]     FIG. 5H depicts a side view of a portion of an alternative example force-sensitive
   structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1.
15 [0030]      FIG. 51 depicts a side view of a portion of an alternative example force-sensitive
   structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1.
   [0031]     FIGS. 6A-D depicts a top detailed view of an optically transparent serpentine force
   sensitive component having various serpentine patterns and which may be used in the
   example force-sensitive structure depicted in FIG. 2A.
20 [0032]     FIG. 7 depicts a top view of an example force-sensitive structure including a grid of
   optically transparent force-sensitive components oriented in different directions to detect
   force.
   [0033]     FIG. 8 depicts a simplified signal flow diagram of a temperature-compensating and
   optically transparent force sensor circuit.
25 [0034]      FIG. 9 is a process flow diagram illustrating example steps of a method of
   manufacturing a temperature-compensating and optically transparent force sensor.
   [0035]     FIG. 10 is a process flow diagram illustrating example steps of a method of
   operating a temperature-compensating force sensor.
                                                     5

    WO 2015/106183                                                              PCT/US2015/010969
   [0036]     FIG. 11 is an additional process flow diagram illustrating example steps of a
   method of operating a temperature-compensating force sensor.
   [0037]      FIG. 12 depicts a side view of a portion of an alternative example force-sensitive
   structure including a single piezo element.
 5 [0038]      FIG. 13 depicts a side view of a portion of an alternative example force-sensitive
   structure including a multi-layered piezo element.
   [0039]     FIG. 14 depicts a side view of a portion of an alternative example force-sensitive
   structure including a multi-layered piezo element.
   [0040]      FIG. 15 depicts a side view of a portion of an alternative example force-sensitive
10 structure including a multi-layered piezo element.
   [0041]     The use of the same or similar reference numerals in different figures indicates
   similar, related, or identical items.
   Detailed Description
   [0042]     Embodiments described herein may relate to or take the form of a force sensor
15 that is incorporated with components of an electronic device to form a touch-sensitive
   surface on the device. Some embodiments are directed to a force sensor that can
   compensate for variations in temperature and may be optically transparent for integration
   with a display or transparent medium of an electronic device. Certain embodiments
   described herein also relate to force-sensitive structures including one or more force
20 sensitive components for detecting a magnitude of a force applied to a device. In one
   example, a transparent force-sensitive component is integrated with, or adjacent to, a
   display element of an electronic device. The electronic device may be, for example, a
   mobile phone, a tablet computing device, a computer display, a notebook computing device,
   a desktop computing device, a computing input device (such as a touch pad, keyboard, or
25 mouse), a wearable device, a health monitor device, a sports accessory device, and so on.
   [0043]     Generally and broadly, a user touch event may be sensed on a display, enclosure,
   or other surface associated with an electronic device using a force sensor adapted to
   determine the magnitude of force of the touch event. The determined magnitude of force
   may be used as an input signal, input data, or other input information to the electronic
30 device. In one example, a high force input event may be interpreted differently from a low
   force input event. For example, a smart phone may unlock a display screen with a high
   force input event and may pause audio output for a low force input event. The device's
                                                    6

    WO 2015/106183                                                              PCT/US2015/010969
   responses or outputs may thus differ in response to the two inputs, even though they occur
   at the same point and may use the same input device. In further examples, a change in
   force may be interpreted as an additional type of input event. For example, a user may hold
   a wearable device force sensor proximate to an artery in order to evaluate blood pressure or
 5 heart rate. One may appreciate that a force sensor may be used for collecting a variety of
   user inputs.
   [0044]      In many examples, a force sensor may be incorporated into a touch-sensitive
   electronic device and located proximate to a display of the device, or incorporated into a
   display stack. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the force sensor may be constructed of
10 optically transparent materials. For example, an optically transparent force sensor may
   include at least a force-receiving layer, a first and second substrate each including at least
   an optically transparent material, and each substrate including, respectively, a first and
   second force-sensitive component. In many examples, the first substrate may be disposed
   below the force-receiving layer such that the first force-sensitive component may experience
15 deflection, tension, compression, or another mechanical deformation upon application of
   force to the force-receiving layer. In this manner, a bottom surface of the first substrate may
   experience an expansion, and a top surface of the first substrate may experience a
   compression. In other words, the first substrate may bend about its neutral axis,
   experiencing compressive and tensile forces.
20 [0045]      A transparent force-sensitive component may be formed from a compliant material
   that exhibits at least one measurable electrical response that varies with a deformation,
   deflection, or shearing of the component. The transparent force-sensitive component may
   be formed from a piezoelectric, piezoresistive, resistive, or other strain-sensitive material that
   is attached to or formed on a substrate and electrically or operatively coupled to sensor
25 circuitry for measuring a change in the electrical response of the material. Potential
   substrate materials include, for example, glass or transparent polymers like polyethylene
   terephthalate (PET) or cyclo-olefin polymer (COP). Example transparent conductive
   materials include polyethyleneioxythiophene (PEDOT), indium tin oxide (ITO), carbon
   nanotubes, graphene, piezoresistive semiconductor materials, piezoresistive metal
30 materials, silver nanowire, other metallic nanowires, and the like. Transparent materials may
   be used in sensors that are integrated or incorporated with a display or other visual element
   of a device. If transparency is not required, then other component materials may be used,
   including, for example, Constantan and Karma alloys for the conductive component and a
   polyimide may be used as a substrate. Nontransparent applications include force sensing
35 on track pads or behind display elements. In general, transparent and non-transparent
                                                     7

    WO 2015/106183                                                               PCT/US2015/010969
   force-sensitive components may be referred to herein as "force-sensitive components" or
   simply "components."
   [0046]     Transparent force-sensitive components can be formed by coating a substrate with
   a transparent conductive material, attaching a transparent conductive material, or otherwise
 5 depositing such a material on the substrate. In some embodiments, the force-sensitive
   components may be formed relative to the bottom surface of a first substrate and relative to
   a top surface of a second substrate. The force-sensitive components of the first and second
   substrates may be oriented to face one another. In some implementations, the first
   substrate may deflect in response to a user touch. The deflection of the first substrate may
10 cause the bottom surface of the first substrate to expand under tension, which may cause
   the transparent force-sensitive component (disposed relative to the bottom surface) to also
   expand, stretch, or otherwise geometrically change as a result of the deflection.
   [0047]     In some cases, the force-sensitive component may be placed under tension in
   response to a downward deflection because the component is positioned below the neutral
15 axis of the bend of the substrate. Once under tension, the transparent force-sensitive
   component may exhibit a change in at least one electrical property, for example, resistance.
   In one example, the resistance of the transparent force-sensitive component may increase
   linearly with an increase in tension experienced by the component. In another example, the
   resistance of the transparent force-sensitive component may decrease linearly with an
20 increase in tension experienced by the component. One may appreciate that different
   transparent materials may experience different changes to different electrical properties, and
   as such, the effects of tension may vary from embodiment to embodiment.
   [0048]     In some embodiments, the force-sensitive components may be formed from a
   piezoresistive or resistive material. In some implementations, when the piezoresistive or
25 resistive material is strained, the resistance of the component changes as a function of the
   strain. The change in resistance can be measured using a sensing circuit that is configured
   to measure small changes in resistance of the force-sensitive components. In some cases,
   the sensing circuit may include a bridge circuit configuration that is configured to measure
   the differential change in resistance between two or more force-sensitive components. If the
30 relationship between electrical resistance, temperature and mechanical strain of the
   component material is known, the change in the differential strain E, - y may be derived. In
   some cases, the differential strain may account for changes strain or resistance due to
   changes in temperature, which may cancel if the two elements have similar thermal
   properties and are at similar temperature while being subjected to differential strain due to
                                                    8

    WO 2015/106183                                                                PCT/US2015/010969
   the strain relief layer. In this way, a transparent piezoresistive or resistive component can be
   used as a temperature compensating force sensor.
   [0049]     In certain embodiments, a resistive element may be measured by using a voltage
   divider or bridge circuit. For example, a voltage Vg may be measured across the output of
 5 two parallel voltage dividers connected to a voltage supply V. One of the voltage dividers
   may include two resistors of known resistance R, and R2 , the other voltage divider may
   include a first resistive strain element R, and a second resistive strain element Ry. A voltage
   can be measured between a node between R, and R2 and a node between R, and Ry to
   detect small changes in the relative resistance between the two strain elements. In some
10 cases, additional sensor circuitry (including a processing unit) may be used to calculate the
   mechanical strain due to a force on the surface based on the relative resistance between
   two strain elements. In some cases, the sensor circuitry may estimate the mechanical strain
   while reducing or eliminating environmental effects, such as variations in temperature.
   [0050]     In some embodiments, pairs of voltage dividers may be used to form a full bridge,
15 so as to compare the output of a plurality of sensors. In this manner, error present as a
   result of temperature differences between sensors may be substantially reduced or
   eliminated without requiring dedicated error correction circuitry or specialized processing
   software. In some embodiments, an electrical response due to the force of a touch may be
   measured and an algorithm may be used to compare a relative response and cancel the
20 effects of the temperature changes. In some embodiments, both differential measurements
   of the components and measurements of their individual responses may be made to extract
   the corresponding differential strain, and also the temperature. In some cases an algorithm
   may use the differential and individual responses to compute a force estimate that cancels
   the effects on strain due to, for example, the differences in the thermal coefficient of
25 expansion of the two component materials.
   [0051]     In some embodiments, the force-sensitive component is patterned into an array of
   lines, pixels, or other geometric elements herein referred to as "component elements." The
   regions of the force-sensitive component or the component elements may also be connected
   to sense circuitry using electrically conductive traces or electrodes. In some cases, the
30 conductive traces or electrodes are also formed from transparent conductive materials. In
   some embodiments, sense circuitry, may be in electrical communication with the one or
   more component elements via the electrically conductive traces and/or the electrodes. As
   previously mentioned, the sense circuitry may be adapted to detect and measure the change
   in the electrical property or response (e.g., resistance) of the component due to the force
35 applied.
                                                    9

    WO 2015/106183                                                              PCT/US2015/010969
   [0052]     In some cases, the force-sensitive components may be patterned into pixel
   elements, each pixel element including an array of traces generally oriented along one
   direction. This configuration may be referred to as a piezoresistive or resistive strain gauge
   configuration. In general, in this configuration the force-sensitive-component may be
 5 composed of a material whose resistance changes in a known fashion in response to strain.
   For example, some materials may exhibit a change in resistance linearly in response to
   strain. Some materials may exhibit a change in resistance logarithmically or exponentially in
   response to strain. Some materials may exhibit a change in resistance in a different
   manner. For example, the change in resistance may be due to a change in the geometry
10 resulting from the applied strain such as an increase in length combined with decrease in
   cross-sectional area may occur in accordance with Poisson's effect. The change in
   resistance may also be due to a change in the inherent resistivity of the material due to the
   applied strain.
   [0053]     In some embodiments, the orientation of the strain-sensitive elements may vary
15 from one part of the array to another. For example, elements in the corners may have traces
   that are oriented to be sensitive to strain at 45 degrees with respect to a row (or column) of
   the array. Similarly, elements along the edge of the array may include traces that are most
   sensitive to strain perpendicular to the edge or boundary. In some cases, elements may
   include one of a variety of serpentine trace configurations that may be configured to be
20 sensitive to a combination of the strains along multiple axes. The orientation of the traces in
   the strain-sensitive elements may have different angles, depending on the embodiment.
   [0054]     The pixel elements may have trace patterns that are configured to blend the
   sensitivity to strain along multiple axes to detect changes in boundary conditions of the senor
   or damage to the device. For example, if an element, component, or substrate becomes
25 less constrained because of damage to the physical edge of a device, the sensitivity of the
   response to strain in the X direction may become higher, while the sensitivity of the response
   to strain in the Y direction may be lower. However, if the pixel element is configured to be
   responsive to both X and Y directions, the combined response of the two or more directions
   (which may be a linear combination or otherwise) may facilitate use of the sensor, even after
30 experiencing damage or changes in the boundary conditions of the substrate.
   [0055]     In some embodiments, the force-sensitive component may be formed from a solid
   sheet of material and may be placed in electrical communication with a pattern of electrodes
   disposed on one or more surfaces of the force-sensitive component. The electrodes may be
   used, for example, to electrically couple a region of the solid sheet of material to sense
35 circuitry. An electrode configuration may be used to measure a charge response when
                                                    10

    WO 2015/106183                                                              PCT/US2015/010969
   strained. In some cases, the force-sensitive component may generate different amounts of
   charge depending on the degree of the strain. The overall total charge may reflect a
   superposition of the charge generated due to strain along various axes.
   [0056]      In some embodiments, the force-sensitive component may be integrated with, or
 5 placed adjacent to, portions of a display element, herein generally referred to as a "display
   stack" or simply a "stack." A force-sensitive component may be integrated with a display
   stack, by, for example, being attached to a substrate or sheet that is attached to the display
   stack. In this manner, as the display stack bends in response to an applied force, and
   through all the layers which have good strain transmission below the neutral axis, a tensile
10 strain is transmitted.
   [0057]      Alternatively, the force-sensitive component may be placed within the display stack
   in certain embodiments. Although certain examples are herein provided with respect to a
   force-sensitive component integrated with a display stack, in other embodiments, the force
   sensitive component may be integrated in a portion of the device other than the display
15 stack.
   [0058]      In some embodiments, one or more force-sensitive components may be integrated
   with or attached to a display element of a device, which may include other types of sensors.
   In some embodiments, a display element may include a touch sensor included to detect the
   location of one or more user touch events. Using a touch sensor in combination with the
20 transparent force-sensitive component in accordance with some embodiments described
   herein, the location and magnitude of a touch on a display element of a device can be
   estimated.
   [0059]      In some embodiments, the device may include both touch-sensitive elements and
   force-sensitive elements relative to a surface that may cooperate to improve accuracy of the
25 force sensors. In some cases, the information from the touch-sensitive elements may be
   used in combination with stored information about the responsiveness of the surface to
   reconstruct the force exerted on the surface. For example, the location determined by the
   touch sensor may be used in conjunction with a set of weighting coefficients stored in a
   memory to estimate the force applied at the corresponding points. A different touch location
30 may be used in conjunction with a different set of coefficients weighting the response of the
   strain sensors to predict a force of touch at that point. In certain examples, the algorithm
   used to calculate the forces at the surface may be based, at least in part, upon the
   information provided by the touch sensor, stored information from calibration of the display,
   or information collected and stored during the operational life of the sensors. In some cases,
                                                    11

    WO 2015/106183                                                               PCT/US2015/010969
   the sensors may be calibrated to zero force during a time preceding a touch indication from
   the touch sensors.
   [0060]     One challenge associated with using a force-sensitive component or film within a
   display stack is that the given electrical property (for example, resistance) may change in
 5 response to temperature variations as the electronic device is transported from place to
   place, or used by a user. For example, each time a user touches the touch screen, the user
   may locally increase the temperature of the screen and force-sensitive component. In other
   examples, different environments (e.g., indoors or outdoors) may subject the electronic
   device to different ambient temperatures. In still further examples, an increase in
10 temperature may occur as a result of heat produced by electronic components or systems of
   the device.
   [0061]     In some cases, the force-sensitive component may also expand and contract in
   response to changes in other environmental conditions, such as changes in humidity or
   barometric pressure. In the following examples, the electrical property is a resistance and
15 the variable environmental condition is temperature. However, the techniques and methods
   described herein may also be applied to different electrical properties, such as capacitance
   or inductance, which may be affected by changes in other environmental conditions.
   [0062]     In some implementations, a change in temperature or other environmental
   conditions, either locally or globally, may result in expansion or contraction of the force
20 sensitive component, electronic device enclosure, and/or other components adjacent to the
   component which in turn may change the electrical property (e.g., resistance) measured by
   the sense circuitry. In many cases, the changes in the electrical property due to temperature
   change may obfuscate any changes in the electrical property as a result of an input force.
   For example, a deflection may produce a reduction or increase in the resistance or
25 impedance of the force-sensitive component. A change in temperature may also produce a
   reduction or increase in the resistance or impedance of the force-sensitive component. As a
   result, the two effects may cancel each other out or, alternatively, may amplify each other
   resulting in an insensitive or hypersensitive force sensor. A similar reduction or increase in
   the resistance or impedance of the force-sensitive component could also be produced by, for
30 example, an increase in temperature of the force-sensitive component due to heat produced
   by other elements of the device.
   [0063]     In some cases, mechanical changes due to variations in temperature may also
   impact the electrical performance of the sensor. In particular, variations in temperature of
   the force-sensing component may result in variations in strain on the force-sensing
35 components. For example, a heated force-sensitive component may expand and a cooled
                                                   12

    WO 2015/106183                                                              PCT/US2015/010969
   force-sensitive component may contract producing a strain on the component. This strain
   may cause a change in resistance, impedance, current, or voltage that may be measured by
   associated sense circuitry and may impact the performance of the force sensor.
   [0064] One solution is to account for environmental effects by providing more than one
 5 force-sensing component that is subjected to the same or substantially the same
   environmental conditions. Afirst force-sensing component may serve as a reference point
   or environmental baseline while measuring the strain of a second force-sensing component.
   In some implementations, both of the force-sensitive components may be constructed of
   substantially identical materials such that the reference component reacts to the
10 environment in the same manner as the component being measured. For example, in some
   cases, each of the two components may be adapted to have identical or nearly identical
   thermal coefficients of expansion. In this manner, the mechanical and geometric changes
   resulting from temperature changes may be measured as a difference between the
   components. In some implementations, because each sensor has the same or similar
15 thermal coefficient of expansion, each sensor may expand or contract in a substantially
   identical manner. Using appropriate sensor circuitry and/or sensor processing, effects on
   the electrical properties of either sensor as a result of temperature can be substantially
   compensated, cancelled, reduced or eliminated.
   [0065] In some embodiments, a first sensor (having one or more force-sensing
20 components) may be positioned or disposed below a surface which receives an input force.
   Positioned below the first sensor may be a compliant layer formed from a thermally
   conductive material. Positioned below the compliant layer may be a second sensor (having
   one or more force-sensing components) which may function as a reference sensor. In some
   embodiments, the thermal conductivity of the compliant layer result in a substantially uniform
25 temperature between the first and second sensor. The compliant layer may also distribute
   or otherwise absorb a substantial portion of the deflection of the first sensor such that the
   second sensor may be deflected or deformed to a much lower degree. In some cases, the
   second sensor may experience substantially reduced tensile forces and, in some
   implementations, may not experience any substantial tensile force at all.
30 [0066] In some embodiments, a compliant layer may be used to reduce the transmission
   of strain through a stack such that layers below the compliant layer experience reduced
   strain but still deflect to some extent. In some cases, sensor components below the
   compliant layer and attached to the top surface of a substrate may be subjected to
   compressive forces due to the (reduced) deflection. Such compressive forces may have the
35 opposite effect of the tensile strain in the layer(s) above the compliant layer. In some cases,
                                                    13

    WO 2015/106183                                                              PCT/US2015/010969
   a strain-based electrical property of a lower sensor component may be opposite in sign from
   that of an upper sensor component disposed on an opposite side of the compliant layer and
   a lower surface of a respective substrate. A similar effect may be achieved by placing the
   upper sensor components on an upper surface of a (first) respective substrate and the lower
 5 sensor components on a lower surface of a (second) respective substrate. When the signals
   from the two sensors are compared, the temperature signal may appear as a common mode
   change, and the strain may appear as a differential change. Thus, the relative measurement
   may be used to compensate for variations in temperature.
   [0067]     FIG. 1 depicts an example electronic device 100. The electronic device 100 may
10 include a display 104 disposed or positioned within an enclosure 102. The display 104 may
   include a stack of multiple elements including, for example, a display element, a touch
   sensor layer, a force sensor layer, and other elements. The display 104 may include a
   liquid-crystal display (LCD) element, organic light emitting diode (OLED) element,
   electroluminescent display (ELD), and the like. The display 104 may also include other
15 layers for improving the structural or optical performance of the display, including, for
   example, glass sheets, polymer sheets, polarizer sheets, color masks, and the like. The
   display 104 may also be integrated or incorporated with a cover 106, which forms part of the
   exterior surface of the device 100. Example display stacks depicting some example layer
   elements are described in more detail below with respect to FIGS. 2-5.
20 [0068]     In some embodiments, a touch sensor and or a force sensor are integrated or
   incorporated with the display 104. In some embodiments, the touch and/or force sensor
   enable a touch-sensitive surface on the device 100. In the present example, a touch and/or
   force sensor are used to form a touch-sensitive surface over at least a portion of the exterior
   surface of the cover 106. The touch sensor may include, for example, a capacitive touch
25 sensor, a resistive touch sensor, or other device that is configured to detect the occurrence
   and/or location of a touch on the cover 106. The force sensor may include a strain-based
   force sensor similar to the force sensors described herein.
   [0069]     In some embodiments, each of the layers of the display 104 may be adhered
   together with an optically transparent adhesive. In other embodiments, each of the layers of
30 the display 104 may be attached or deposited onto separate substrates that may be
   laminated or bonded to each other. The display 104 may also include other layers for
   improving the structural or optical performance of the display, including, for example, glass
   sheets, polarizer sheets, color masks, and the like.
   [0070]     FIG. 2A depicts a top view of an example force-sensitive structure 200 including a
35 grid of optically transparent force-sensitive components. The force-sensitive structure 200
                                                   14

    WO 2015/106183                                                              PCT/US2015/010969
   may be integrated or incorporated with a display of an electronic device, such as the
   example described above with respect to FIG. 1. As shown in FIG. 2A, the force-sensitive
   structure 200 includes a substrate 210 having disposed upon it a plurality of individual force
   sensitive components 212. In this example, the substrate 210 may be an optically
 5 transparent material, such as polyethylene terephthalate (PET), glass, sapphire, diamond,
   and the like. The force-sensing components 212 may be made from transparent conductive
   materials including, for example, polyethyleneioxythiophene (PEDOT), indium tin oxide
   (ITO), carbon nanotubes, gallium zinc oxide, indium gallium zinc oxide, graphene,
   piezoresistive semiconductor material, piezoresistive metal material, nickel nanowires,
10 platinum nanowires, silver nanowire, other metallic nanowires, and the like. In certain
   embodiments, the force-sensing components 212 may be selected at least in part on
   temperature characteristics. For example, the material selected for the force-sensing
   components 212 may have a negative temperature coefficient of resistance such that, as
   temperature increases, the resistance of the material decreases.
15 [0071]     As shown in FIG. 2A, the force-sensing components 212 may be formed as an
   array of rectilinear pixel elements, although other shapes and array patterns could also be
   used. In many examples, each individual force-sensing component 212 may have a shape
   and/or pattern that depends on the location of the force-sensing component 212 within the
   array. For example, in some embodiments, the force-sensing component 212 may be
20 formed as a serpentine pattern of traces, such as shown in FIG. 2B. The force-sensing
   component 212 may include at least two electrodes 212a, 212b for connecting to a sensing
   circuit. In other cases, the force-sensing component 212 may be electrically connected to
   sense circuitry without the use of electrodes. For example, the force-sensing component
   212 may be connected to the sensing circuitry using conductive traces that are formed as
25 part of the component layer.
   [0072]     FIG. 2C depicts a side view of a portion of the example force-sensitive structure
   200 taken along section A-A of FIG. 1. As depicted in this cross section, a first substrate
   210 may be disposed below a force-receiving layer 240. The force-receiving layer 240 may
   correspond to the cover 106 depicted in FIG. 1. In some cases, force-receiving layer 240 is
30 configured to receive a force directly from the user, and in some cases, the force-receiving
   layer 240 is configured to receive a force via another layer or component of the stack that is
   disposed relative to a surface of the force-receiving layer 240. In some embodiments, the
   force-receiving layer 240 may be made from a material having high strain transmission
   properties. For example, the force-receiving layer 240 may be made from a hard or
35 otherwise rigid material such as glass, plastic, or metal such that an exerted force may be
   effectively transmitted through the force-receiving layer 240 to the layers disposed below.
                                                   15

    WO 2015/106183                                                                PCT/US2015/010969
   [0073]      As shown in FIG. 2C, a compliant layer 202 may be disposed below the force
   receiving layer 240 and the first substrate 210 having an array of individual force-sensitive
   components 212. The compliant layer 202 may be formed from a compliant material that is
   configured to compress and/or relieve strain in response to the force of a touch. For
 5 example, the compliant layer 202 may be configured to relieve shear and/or strain between
   the first substrate 210 and the second substrate 220. In some embodiments, the compliant
   layer 202 may be formed from a low-durometer elastomer. In one non-limiting example, the
   elastomer may have a durometer less than 25 Shore A. In some embodiments, the
   compliant layer 202 has a modulus of elasticity that is less than one-quarter of the modulus
10 of elasticity of the first substrate 210. In some embodiments, the compliant layer 202 has a
   modulus of elasticity that is less than one-fifth of the modulus of elasticity of the first
   substrate 210. In some embodiments, the compliant layer 202 has a modulus of elasticity
   that is less than one-tenth of the modulus of elasticity of the first substrate 210. In some
   embodiments, the compliant layer 202 has a modulus of elasticity that is less than one
15 twentieth of the modulus of elasticity of the first substrate 210.
   [0074]      In some embodiments, the compliant layer 202 may be made from a compliant
   adhesive. In some embodiments, the compliant adhesive may be an optically clear
   adhesive. For example, the compliant layer 202 may be made from an acrylic adhesive
   having a thickness of less than 200 microns. In some embodiments, the compliant layer 202
20 may be less than 100 microns. In some embodiments, the compliant layer may be about 50
   microns in thickness. In other embodiments, a thinner layer of adhesive may be used. In
   some cases, the material used for the compliant layer 202 may have a variable modulus of
   elasticity. For example, the compliant layer 202 may be particularly compliant in one portion,
   and may be particularly non-compliant in another portion. In this manner, the compliant
25 layer may be adapted to include a variable modulus of elasticity throughout its thickness. In
   one embodiment, the compliant layer 202 may be made from a number of independent
   layers, each having a different relative compliance. For example, a lower durometer
   adhesive may be layered atop a higher durometer adhesive. In some embodiments, the
   material of the compliant layer 202 may be selected at least in part for its modulus of
30 elasticity. For example, in certain embodiments, a particularly low modulus of elasticity such
   that the compliant layer 202 is exceptionally pliant but also sufficiently resilient to maintain a
   gap between the layers of the stack..
   [0075]      In some embodiments, the material of the compliant layer 202 may be composed
   of layers having various thicknesses and elastic properties. The layering of material may
35 augment the compliance of the compliant layer 202. For example, as a layering of the
   compliant layer 202 increases, the compliance of the layer may increase. In a like manner,
                                                    16

    WO 2015/106183                                                                PCT/US2015/010969
   the compliance of the compliant layer 202 may decrease if the material is applied thinly. In
   some examples, the compliant layer may be made from layers of an acrylic adhesive applied
   to a thickness of 15 micrometers for each layer. In some embodiments, a 15-micrometer
   acrylic adhesive compliant layer may have compliance that is approximately fifty-five percent
 5 of the modulus of elasticity of the same layer at 125 micrometers.
   [0076]      As shown in FIG. 2C, below the compliant layer 202 is a second substrate 220
   having a plurality of individual force-sensitive components 222 positioned thereon. Similarly
   to the first substrate 210, the second substrate 220 may be made from an optically
   transparent material, such as polyethylene terephthalate (PET). In this example, the force
10 sensing components 222 may be formed as an array of rectilinear pixel elements each
   aligned vertically with a respective one of the array individual force-sensitive components
   212. In many examples, each individual force-sensing component 222 may take a selected
   shape. For example, in certain embodiments, the force-sensing component 222 may include
   traces arranged in a serpentine pattern, similar to the serpentine pattern shown for force
15 sensing component 212 in FIG. 2B.
   [0077]      As shown in FIG. 2C, the force-sensitive components 212, 222 may be connected
   to sense circuitry 105 that is configured to detect changes in an electrical property of each of
   the force-sensitive components 212, 222. In this example, the sense circuitry 105 may be
   configured to detect changes in the resistance of the force-sensitive component 212, 222,
20 which can be used to estimate a force that is applied to the device. In some cases, the
   sense circuitry 105 may also be configured to provide information about the location of the
   touch based on the relative difference in the change of resistance of a respective force
   sensitive component 212.
   [0078]      In some embodiments, the sensing circuitry 105 may be adapted to determine a
25 relative measurement between the electrical response of the force-sensitive component 212
   and the electrical response of the force-sensitive component 222. In some cases, the
   electrical response that is due to the force of a touch may be different for force-sensitive
   components that are located on opposite sides of the compliant layer 202. For example, as
   described above, a force may be received at the force-receiving layer 240. Due to the
30 rigidity of the force-receiving layer 240, a force that is received on the force-receiving layer
   240 and deflects the force-receiving layer 240 may also cause the first substrate 210 to
   deflect . Because the force-sensitive component 212 is affixed to the first substrate 210, the
   force-sensitive component 212 deflects as well, and passes the force to the compliant layer
   202. However, due to the compliance (e.g., elastic properties) of the compliant layer 202,
35 the compliant layer 202 may deform and absorb at least a portion of the shear or strain in the
                                                    17

    WO 2015/106183                                                               PCT/US2015/010969
   stack caused by the force of the touch. As a result, the compliant layer 202 may cause a
   reduced strain in the force-sensitive component 222 disposed below the compliant layer 202.
   In some cases, the (lower) force-sensitive component 222 may experience a deflection
   and/or strain that is significantly reduced as compared to the deflection and/or strain of the
 5 force-sensitive component 212. Thus, the compliant layer 202 functions as a strain-break
   between the two force-sensitive components 212, 222.
   [0079]      Additionally the compliant layer 202 may normalize the temperature between a
   force-sensitive component 212 and a respective force-sensitive component 222 that is
   similarly positioned within the array. In particular, the compliant layer 202 may conduct heat
10 between the force-sensitive components 212, 222 resulting in a substantially uniform
   temperature distribution between corresponding upper and lower components.           In some
   implementations, the temperature of the force-sensitive component 212 and the temperature
   of force-sensitive component 222 may be substantially equal.
   [0080]      In some cases, both the thermal conductivity and mechanical compliance of the
15 compliant layer 202 facilitates measurements that may reduce or eliminate any strain sensor
   drift resulting from temperature change, either locally or globally throughout the structure. In
   particular, measuring a relative change in the electrical response of the force-sensitive
   components on either side of the compliant layer 202 may be used to compensate for
   variations in temperature of the sensor. For example, in one embodiment, the first and
20 second force-sensitive components 212, 222 may produce a change in resistance in
   response to a change in strain and/or temperature. The relative change in electrical
   response may be measured using a voltage divider circuit configuration. For example, the
   first and second force-sensitive components 212, 222 may be connected as resistive
   elements in a voltage divider configuration. In some cases, the force-sensitive component
25 212 may serve as the ground-connected resistor RgoundOf the voltage divider and the force
   sensitive component 222 may serve as the supply-connected resistor R,,pply of the voltage
   divider. The voltage at the midpoint of the force-sensitive component 212 and force
   sensitive component 222 may be calculated by multiplying the supply voltage V,,pply by the
   ratio of the ground-connected resistor to the total resistance (i.e., supply-connected resistor
30 summed with the ground-connected resistor). For example, the voltage at the midpoint of
   the voltage divider, Vout may be found, in a simplified example, by using the equation:
                                                      V     Rground
                                        out - VSUPPIY
                                                                                             Equation I
                                                        Rground+Rsuppq
   [0081]      Due to fact that the resistance of resistive elements Rground  and Rsupply (or force
   sensitive component 212 and force-sensitive component 222, respectively) changes in
                                                     18

    WO 2015/106183                                                                   PCT/US2015/010969
   response to force and in response to temperature, the resistance of either element may be
   calculated as a function of both force (i.e., strain) and as a function of temperature, using as
   a simplified example, the equation:
                  Rmeasured ~ Rbaseline(1   + a' (Tactuai -    Tbaseline)  (1 + g - Eapplied), Equation 2
 5 where Rbaseline is a baseline reference resistance, a is the temperature coefficient of
   resistance, g is the strain coefficient of resistance, and   Eapplied is the strain applied to the
   structure. The approximation described by Equation 2 illustrates that the base resistance
   Rbaseline  of either Rqround and Rsapply may be altered by both the temperature and the strain
   applied to the material. In some cases, the effects of temperature variation may be
10 approximated by the product of the temperature coefficient of resistance a of the material
   selected for the force-sensitive component, and the actual temperature Tactuai of the
   element. Similarly, the effect of strain may be approximated by the product of the strain
   coefficient of resistance g and the strain applied   Eapplied to the element.
   [0082]      By combining Equation 2 and Equation 1 and entering the known quantities VSUP,1Y
15 , Rbaseline , a, and g and measured quantities Vut, the strain applied to each element E2 1 2
   and E2 2 2 and the actual temperature of each element T212 and T222 are the only remaining
   unknown variables, which may be further simplified as a difference in strain AE between the
   force-sensitive components 212, 222 and a difference in temperature AT between the force
   sensitive components 212, 222.
20 [0083]      In some implementations, the thermal conductivity of the compliant layer 240
   results in a substantially uniform temperature between opposing force-sensitive components
   212, 222. Thus, in some cases, the difference in temperature AT may be functionally
   approximated as zero. Additionally, because the compliance of the compliant layer 240
   substantially reduces the strain experienced by the force-sensitive component 222, the strain
25 e 2 22 may, in some cases, be functionally approximated as zero. In this manner, the only
   remaining unknown is the strain e2 12 as experienced by the force-sensitive component 212.
   Accordingly, e2 12 may be computed using an algorithm or circuitry corresponds to the
   relationships discussed above, which may be used to compute a force measurement or
   estimate. As discussed previously, the force measurement or estimate may be used as a
30 user input for the electronic device.
   [0084]      FIG. 3A depicts an enlarged detail side view of the example force-sensitive
   structure of FIG. 2B. As shown in FIG. 3A, a force-sensitive component 212 is disposed
   along a bottom surface of the first substrate 210, which itself is adhered or otherwise affixed
   to a bottom surface of a force-receiving layer 240. Opposite to the first force-sensitive
                                                     19

    WO 2015/106183                                                              PCT/US2015/010969
   component 212 is a second force-sensitive component 222, adhered to a second substrate
   210. Positioned between the force-sensitive components 212, 212 is a compliant layer 202.
   When a force F is received, the force-receiving layer 240, the first substrate 210 and the
   force-sensing component 212 may at least partially deflect, as shown for example in FIG.
 5 3B. As a result of the compliance of the compliant layer 202, the force-sensing component
   222 may not deflect in response to the force F. In some cases, due to the compliance of the
   compliant layer 202, the force-sensing component 222 may deflect, but to a degree that is
   less than the force-sensing component 212.
   [0085]     In some embodiments, the deflection of the force-sensing component 222 is
10 approximately the same as the defection of the force-sensing component 212. However,
   due to the presence of the compliant layer 202, a portion of the strain and/or shear forces
   caused by the force F and experienced by the force-sensing component 212 may not be
   transferred to the lower force-sensing component 222.
   [0086]     FIG. 4 depicts a top view of an alternate example of a force-sensitive structure 400
15 including two layers having elements that are transverse to each other. As shown in FIG. 4,
   each layer includes multiple optically transparent force-sensitive components 412, 422
   arranged in a linear array or pattern. One of the layers may be arranged as a number of
   rows while the other is arranged as a number of columns. As noted with respect to FIG. 2A,
   other suitable configurations of transparent force-sensitive components are contemplated.
20 For example, the angle between the force-sensitive components 412, 422 may be
   substantially perpendicular, as shown in FIG. 4. Some embodiments, the angle may be
   different or the force-sensitive components 412, 422 may be substantially aligned.
   [0087]     FIG. 5A depicts a side view of a portion of an additional example embodiment of a
   force-sensitive structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1. As depicted in this
25 cross section, a first substrate 510 may be disposed below a force-receiving layer 540. The
   force-receiving layer 540 may correspond to the cover 106 depicted in FIG. 1 or may be
   disposed below the cover 106 of FIG. 1. As shown in FIG. 5A, the first substrate 510
   includes a plurality of individual force-sensitive components 512. The individual force
   sensitive components 512 may be made from a piezoresistive or other strain-sensitive
30 material. By way of example, the force-sensitive components 512 may be made of silicon,
   germanium, or indium tin oxide.
   [0088]     The force-receiving layer 540 may be formed from a material such as glass,
   polycarbonate, or a similar transparent substrate. In some embodiments, the force-receiving
   layer 540 may be incorporated as a layer within a display stack. In some cases, the force
35 receiving layer 540 is the cover (glass) of a display stack. The force-receiving layer 540 may
                                                    20

    WO 2015/106183                                                                  PCT/US2015/010969
   be made from a material having high strain transmission properties. As one example, the
   force-receiving layer 540 may be made from a hard or otherwise rigid material, such as glass
   or plastic, such that an exerted force may be effectively transmitted through the force
   receiving layer 540 to the layers disposed below. The force-receiving layer 540 may also be
 5 configured to deflect in response to a force applied to the force-receiving layer 540.
   [0089]     Below the force-receiving layer 540, the first substrate 510, and the plurality of
   individual force-sensitive components 512, is a compliant layer 502. The compliant layer
   502 may be made from any number of suitably compliant materials. For example, in some
   embodiments a low durometer elastomer may be used (in one example, the elastomer may
10 have a durometer less than 25 Shore). In some examples, the compliant layer may be made
   from a low-modulus optically clear adhesive, a liquid optically clear adhesive, a silicone
   material, a resin material, or a gel material. In some embodiments, the compliant layer 502
   may be formed to a thickness that is adapted to absorb a particular range of forces applied
   to a force-receiving layer. In some embodiments, the thickness of the compliant layer 502
15 may also depend on one or more considerations including, for example, elasticity, thermal
   conductivity, electrical conductivity, electrical insulation, or other electrical, thermal, or
   mechanical properties.
   [0090]     Below the compliant layer 502 and piezoresistive force-sensitive components 512,
   a plurality of individual force-sensitive components 522 may be positioned on a second
20 substrate 520. The individual force-sensitive components 522 may be made from a strain
   sensitive material. In such an embodiment, the force-sensitive components 512 of the first
   substrate 510 may be made from a different material from the force-sensitive components
   522 of the second substrate.
   [0091]     The force-sensitive components 512, 522 may be operatively connected to sense
25 circuitry 505 that is configured to detect changes in an electrical property or electrical
   response of each of the force-sensitive components 512, 522. In some embodiments, the
   sense circuitry 505 may be adapted to detect changes in the resistance of the force-sensitive
   component 515, 522 by, for example, a voltage divider (i.e., half bridge).
   [0092]      In some embodiments, a piezoresistive element of force-sensitive components
30 512, 522 may be subject to pyroelectric effects as the temperature of the sensor, device, or
   environment change. Accordingly, the electrical properties of the force-sensitive
   components 512, 522 (e.g., resistance) may change with variations in temperature. In some
   examples, the electrical properties or electrical response of force-sensitive components 512,
   522 that vary with temperature may also be impacted by the coefficient of thermal expansion
35 ("CTE"). Thus, in some cases, the electrical properties of the force-sensitive components
                                                     21

    WO 2015/106183                                                                       PCT/US2015/010969
   512, 522 may be modeled as the sum of the pyroelectric effect, the CTE effect, and the
   effect of any strain as a result of a force applied by a user. In some embodiments, the
   electrical properties or electrical response of the force-sensitive components 512, 522 may
   change with temperature as well as in response to the force of a touch. For example,
 5 electrical properties or response of the force-sensitive components 512, 522 may change
   due to variations in the physical dimensions of the force-sensitive components 512, 522
   caused by variations in temperature (e.g., the force-sensitive components 512, 522
   expanding or contracting due to thermal expansion). Additionally, the electrical properties or
   response of the force-sensitive components 512, 522 may change due to variations in
10 temperature due to a pyroelectricity or a pyroelectric effect. Thus, the strain measured
   directly from the force-sensitive components 512, 522 may be approximated, in one
   example, as a sum of three components.
                                         Measured ~Euser + Epyro +       ECTE                        Equation 3
   where   Emeasured   is the strain measurement or estimation, Euser is the strain due to the force
15 of the touch,  Epyro   is the strain due to the pyroelectric effect, and    ECTE is the strain due to the
   coefficient of thermal expansion. In some cases, a measurement or estimation of the force
   applied by the user reduces, cancels, eliminates, or otherwise compensates for the
   pyroelectric effect and/or the CTE effect.
   [0093]      Similarly, in some embodiments, the strain-sensitive material of the force-sensitive
20 components 522 may be subject to the changes in resistance due to the changes in
   temperature. Such changes may be referred to as changes resulting from the thermal
   coefficient of resistance ("TCR") of the material selected for force-sensitive components 522.
   Similarly, CTE may cause the force-sensitive components 522 to physically expand or
   contract in response to temperature, and the effect of any strain as a result of a force applied
25 by the user. In this manner, the resistance of the force-sensitive components 522 may
   directly change with temperature, the physical dimensions of the force-sensitive components
   522 (and thus the resistance) may change with temperature (e.g., the force-sensitive
   components 522 expanding or contracting), and the dimensions of the force-sensitive
   components 522 may change in response to forces applied by a user. Thus, the strain
30 measured as a function of resistance of the force-sensitive components 512 may be
   approximated, in one example, as a sum of three components.
                                         Measured ~ Euser + ETCR +       ECTE                        Equation 4
   [0094]     where   Emeasured     is the strain measurement or estimation, Euser is the strain due to
   the force of the touch,     ETCR  is the strain due to the coefficient of thermal resistance, and    ECTE
                                                        22

    WO 2015/106183                                                             PCT/US2015/010969
   is the strain due to the coefficient of thermal expansion. In some cases, a measurement or
   estimation of the force applied by the user reduces, cancels, eliminates, or otherwise
   compensates for the TCR effect and/or the CTE effect.
   [0095]     In some embodiments, either or both the TCR effect and the pyroelectric effect
 5 may be several orders of magnitude larger than any strain changes as a result of a user
   force. However, despite the differences in scale, because the properties of both materials
   are known, force applied can be calculated, as temperature and force applied are the only
   unknown variables (using, e.g., equations 1 and 2). That is, variations in temperature may
   effect both sets of force-sensitive components 512, 522 to a substantially similar degree,
10 while the strain experienced due to the force of a touch may vary due to the compliant layer
   512, which may be computed or estimated using equations 1 and 2 discussed above. Thus,
   a measurement or estimation of the force of a touch may reduce, cancel, eliminate, or
   otherwise compensate for various temperature effects, including, for example, the
   pyroelectric effect, the TCR effect, and/or the CTE effect.
15 [0096]     FIG. 5B depicts a side view of a portion of an example embodiment of a force
   sensitive structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1. As with FIG. 5A, a plurality
   of force-sensitive components 512 may be disposed below a substrate 510 which may
   receive a force from a force-receiving layer 540. The sense circuitry 505 may be adapted to
   measure a change in an electrical property of the force-sensitive components 512 in
20 accordance with the previous discussion. The sense circuitry 505 may also be coupled to a
   temperature sensor 524. The temperature sensor 524 may be thermally coupled to the
   force-sensitive components 512. For example in one embodiment, the temperature sensor
   524 may be included within the substrate 510. In another example, the temperature sensor
   may be included below the force-sensitive components 512, or elsewhere within the stack.
25 The temperature measurement provided by the temperature sensor 524 may be used to
   calculate a compensation factor that may be applied to the strain measurement of the force
   sensitive components 512. In this manner, effects of temperature may be compensated and
   the temperature-individual strain as a result of a user input may be accurately measured.
   [0097]     In some embodiments, the force-sensitive components 512 may also serve as
30 portions of a capacitive touch screen. For example, in a first mode the force-sensitive
   components 512 may be operated to measure force applied to the force-receiving layer.
   However, in a second mode the force-sensitive components 512 may operate as a
   capacitive sensor adapted to detect a user touch on the screen. Although illustrated such
   that the force-sensitive components 512 are oriented facing away from the bottom surface of
35 the force-receiving layer 540, one may appreciate that alternate embodiments are
                                                    23

    WO 2015/106183                                                              PCT/US2015/010969
   contemplated. For example, in one embodiment, the force-sensitive components 512 may
   be oriented facing the bottom surface of the force-receiving layer 540.
   [0098]     FIG. 5C depicts a side view of a portion of an example embodiment of a force
   sensitive structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1. As with FIG. 5A, a plurality
 5 of force-sensitive components 512 may be disposed below a first substrate 510, which may
   receive a force from a force-receiving layer 540. Therebelow may be a first intermediate
   layer 502 which is positioned above a second substrate 520 which itself may include a
   plurality of force-sensitive components 522 disposed thereupon. Positioned below the
   second substrate may be a second intermediate layer 502. Below the second compliant
10 layer 502 may be disposed a third substrate 530. The third substrate 530 may include a
   plurality of force-sensitive components 532. Although three layers of substrates are shown,
   certain embodiments may include additional layers. In many embodiments one or more of
   the intermediate layers 502 may be made from a compliant material.
   [0099]     For embodiments having this configuration or related layer configurations,
15 temperature may be compensated by determining the temperature gradient between the
   first, second and third layers. For example, when a user applies a force, a strain may be
   measured at each of the three layers. As explained above, the measured strain may include
   unwanted effects of temperature. Accordingly, by measuring the difference between the
   measured strains of the first, second, and third layers, temperature may be derived and
20 compensated for.
   [0100]     FIG. 5D depicts a side view of a portion of an example embodiment of a force
   sensitive structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1. As with FIG. 5A, a plurality
   of force-sensitive components 512 may be disposed below a first substrate 510 which may
   receive a force from a force-receiving layer 540 through a thermal break layer 526. The
25 thermal break layer 526 may be adapted to translate mechanical force downward from the
   force-receiving layer 540 to the first substrate 510 without transferring heat. As shown, the
   thermal break layer may create an air gap between the bottom surface of the force-receiving
   layer 540 and the first substrate 510. In this manner, the temperature of the first and second
   substrates 510, 520 and the respective layers of force-sensitive components 512, 522 may
30 be at least partially isolated from environmental conditions, which may improve the accuracy
   and performance of the force sensor.
   [0101]     FIG. 5E depicts a side view of a portion of an example embodiment of a force
   sensitive structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1. In such an embodiment, a
   single strain sensing layer including a number of strain sensors 512 that exhibits different
35 strain and or thermal properties at different locations about the substrate 510. For example,
                                                   24

    WO 2015/106183                                                                PCT/US2015/010969
   strain sensor 512a may have a different geometry than strain sensor 512b. The difference in
   geometry may be selected for any number of reasons. For example, a larger strain sensor
   geometry may be necessary for portions of the substrate 510 which are expected to
   experience greater deformation than other portions of the substrate.
 5 [0102]     In one example, different geometries for different strain sensors may be selected
   based upon what electronic components may be disposed below the force-sensitive
   structure when the structure is included within an electronic device. In other cases, different
   geometries may be present for different expected force input areas. For example, certain
   embodiments may include a force-sensing area that is designed to be more sensitive than a
10 second force-sensing area. Accordingly, the geometry of strain sensors included within
   these two areas may differ. In this manner, different regions of a substrate 510 may include
   different strain sensors 512. Strain sensors may differ in geometry, orientation, material, or
   other properties.
   [0103]     FIG. 5F depicts a side view of a portion of an example embodiment of a force
15 sensitive structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1. As with FIG. 5A, a plurality
   of force-sensitive components 512 may be disposed below a first substrate 510 which may
   receive a force from a force-receiving layer 540. Positioned below the first substrate 510
   may be a compliant layer 502 below which a second substrate 520 may be positioned.
   Along a top surface of the second substrate 520 may be a first plurality of force-sensitive
20 components 522, similar to the embodiment as shown in FIG. 2C. Positioned along a
   bottom surface of the second substrate 520 may be a second plurality of force-sensitive
   components 522. In such an embodiment, the force-sensitive components 512 may be
   measured in conjunction with the first plurality of force-sensitive components 522, in the
   manner as substantially described with respect to FIG. 2C. For example, measurement may
25 be accomplished in certain embodiments by a half bridge.
   [0104]     Thereafter or therewith, the difference between the first plurality of force-sensitive
   components 522 may be measured against the second plurality of force-sensitive
   components 522. These, for example, may be measured using a half bridge, or alternately
   with a quarter bridge (i.e., measuring the second plurality of force-sensitive components 522
30 independent of the first plurality). In this manner, effects of temperature may be
   compensated and strain resultant from a user force input may be measured.
   [0105]     FIG. 5G depicts a side view of a portion of an example of a force-sensitive
   structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1. As with FIG. 5A, a plurality of force
   sensitive components 512 may be disposed below a force-receiving layer 540. In such an
35 embodiment the force-receiving layer may be a cover (e.g., cover glass) associated with a
                                                   25

    WO 2015/106183                                                              PCT/US2015/010969
   display stack of a portable electronic device. Positioned below the cover may be a compliant
   layer 502 below which a substrate 520 may be positioned. In such an embodiment, the
   compliant layer 502 may be a liquid crystal layer associated with the display stack.
   Positioned along the substrate 520 may be a plurality of force-sensitive components. In
 5 such an embodiment, the substrate may be a thin film transistor layer associated with the
   display stack. In this manner, a force-sensitive structure may be directly incorporated within
   a display stack for a portable electronic device.
   [0106]     FIG. 5H depicts a side view of a portion of an example embodiment of a force
   sensitive structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1. related to FIG. 5G, a
10 plurality of force-sensitive components 512 may be disposed above a force-receiving layer
   540 that may be the cover glass associated with a display stack. Positioned below the first
   substrate 510 may be a compliant layer 502, which may be may be a liquid crystal layer
   associated with the display stack. Positioned below the compliant layer 502 may be a
   substrate 520 which may be a thin film transistor layer associated with the display stack.
15 Along a bottom surface of the thin film transistor layer may be a plurality of force-sensitive
   components 512. In this manner, a force-sensitive structure may be directly incorporated
   within a display stack for a portable electronic device.
   [0107]     FIG. 51 depicts a side view of a portion of an example embodiment of a force
   sensitive structure of a device taken along section A-A of FIG. 1. In such an embodiment,
20 the sensing circuitry 505 may measure differences between a force-sensitive component
   512 and a force-sensitive component 522 that are not vertically aligned. In this manner, the
   sensing circuitry may progressively scan a single force-sensitive component 512 against a
   number of force-sensitive components 522.
   [0108]     FIGS. 6A - 6C depict a top detailed view of various optically transparent
25 serpentine geometries for a force-sensitive component which may be used in the example
   force-sensitive structure depicted in FIG. 2A. For example, the force-sensing component
   612 may include at least two electrodes 612a, 612b for connecting to a sensing circuit or, in
   other cases, the force-sensing component 212 may be electrically connected to sense
   circuitry without the use of electrodes. For example, the force-sensing component 212 may
30 be connected to the sense circuitry using conductive traces that are formed as part of the
   component layer.
   [0109]     FIG. 6A depicts a top view of a serpentine geometry which is sensitive to strain
   along the Y-axis. In this manner, when the force-sensing component 612 is strained in the
   X-axis direction, the force-sensing component 612 may not experience substantial tension.
35 Conversely, when the force-sensing component 612 is strained in the Y-axis direction, a
                                                    26

    WO 2015/106183                                                               PCT/US2015/010969
   strain may be detected and measured. One may appreciate that angular strain (e.g., strain
   along a 45 degree path) may strain the force-sensing component 612 in an amount
   proportional of equal to the vector component of the strain along the Y-axis. Similarly, FIG.
   6B depicts a top view of a serpentine geometry which is sensitive to strain along the X-axis,
 5 and may not be particularly sensitive to strain along the Y-axis. FIG. 6C depicts a top view
   of a serpentine geometry which may be sensitive to strain along the X-axis and Y-axis.
   [0110]     FIG. 6D depicts a top view of a serpentine geometry which may be sensitive to
   strain along a 45 degree angle. One may appreciate that although shown at 45 degrees,
   any angle or combination of angles may be employed. For example, one embodiment may
10 include angling a strain sensor 612 along an 80 degree angle. Another embodiment may
   include a strain sensor having multiple distinct portions similar to FIG. 6C, in which one
   portion is angled at 45 degrees and another portion is angled at 75 degrees. In many
   embodiments, the angle or combination of angles of orientation for different force-sensitive
   components may be selected, at least in part based on the location of the particular force
15 sensitive component along the surface of an electronic device.
   [0111]     For example, FIG. 7 depicts a top view of an example force-sensitive structure
   including a grid of optically transparent force-sensitive components 712 having traces that
   are oriented in a variety of directions to detect strain along respective directions. For
   example, force-sensitive component 712a may have traces that are oriented to detect strain
20 along a 45 degree angle, whereas force-sensitive component 712b may have traces that are
   oriented to detect strain along a 45 degree angle. In another example, force-sensitive
   component 712c may be adapted to detect along an arbitrary angle between 0 and 45
   degrees.
   [0112]     In certain embodiments, the orientation of the sensing elements or traces of the
25 force-sensitive components may correspond to the position of the force-sensitive component
   relative to the enclosure of an electronic device. The orientation of the strain sensitivity may
   be configured to correspond, for example, with the predicted strain due to the boundary
   conditions or constraints of the force sensor. For example, a force-sensitive component
   positioned proximate to the edge of a screen within a display stack may be oriented
30 differently from a force-sensitive component positioned in the center of the display. In some
   embodiments, as shown in FIG. 7, the orientation of the force-sensitive components are
   approximately perpendicular to an edge of the force sensor.
   [0113]     In some embodiments, as shown in FIG. 7, the grid may be formed from an array
   of components that includes a subset of edge force-sensitive components 712c positioned
35 along an edge of the first array. In some cases, the edge force-sensitive components 712c
                                                   27

    WO 2015/106183                                                                  PCT/US2015/010969
   are formed from traces that are oriented along a direction that is substantially perpendicular
   to the edge. As shown in FIG. 7, the array of force-sensitive components may include a
   subset of corner force-sensitive components 712a, 712b positioned at corners of the array or
   grid. In some cases, the corner force-sensitive components 712a, 712b are formed from
 5 traces that are oriented along a diagonal direction.
   [0114]      FIG. 8 depicts a simplified signal flow diagram of a temperature-compensating and
   optically transparent force sensor in the form of a Wheatstone bridge. In some
   embodiments, a voltage Vg may be measured across the output of two parallel voltage
   dividers connected to a voltage supply Vs. One of the voltage dividers may include two
10 resistors of known resistance R3 , R 4 and the other voltage divider may include two variable
   resistors that, in this example, represent the force and temperature variable resistance of the
   force-sensitive components 212, 222 as shown, for example in FIGS. 2A - 3. Using, for
   example, Equation 2 into Equation 1 described above, and entering the known quantities
   Vsupply (Vs.),   Rbaseline , a, g, R3 , and , R 4 and measured quantity Vout (Vg.), the strain E212
15 applied to the force-sensitive element 212 becomes the only remaining unknown.
   Accordingly, the strain due to the force of the touch may be calculated or estimated and
   used to estimate the force on the surface of the device.
   [0115]      FIG. 9 is a process flow diagram depicting example operations of a process 900 for
   manufacturing a temperature-compensating and optically transparent force sensor. Process
20 900 may be used to construct or manufacture one or more of the sensor embodiments
   described above with respect to FIGS. 2-5. In particular, process 900 may be used to
   construct a force sensor having a compliant layer, which may be used to measure the force
   of a touch and compensate for variations in temperature.
   [0116]      In operation 902, a first substrate may be selected or obtained. As discussed
25 previously, a substrate may be formed from an optically transparent and substantially rigid
   material. Consistent with embodiments described herein, the substrate is rigid in that it is
   non-compressible when a force is applied. However, the substrate is flexible and is
   configured to deflect or bend in response to a force applied to a surface of the device in
   which the force sensor is installed or otherwise integrated within. Potential substrate
30 materials include, for example, glass or transparent polymers like polyethylene terephthalate
   (PET) or cyclo-olefin polymer (COP).
   [0117]      In operation 904, a transparent force-sensitive structure is applied to a surface of
   the first substrate. In some embodiments, the transparent force-sensitive structure is a
   peizoresistive or strain-sensitive material that is deposited, formed on, attached, or otherwise
35 fixed relative to a surface of the first substrate. In some cases, the force-sensitive structure
                                                        28

    WO 2015/106183                                                                PCT/US2015/010969
   is formed from a transparent conductive material. Example transparent conductive materials
   include polyethyleneioxythiophene (PEDOT), indium tin oxide (ITO), carbon nanotubes,
   graphene, piezoresistive semiconductor materials, and piezoresistive metal materials, silver
   nanowire, other metallic nanowires, and the like. The transparent force-sensitive structures
 5 may be applied as a sheet or may be patterned into an array on the surface of the first
   substrate
   [0118]      In operation 906, a second substrate is selected or obtained. The second
   substrate may be substantially similar to the substrate selected or obtained with respect to
   operation 902, described above. In some embodiments, the second substrate may be less
10 flexible than the first substrate. In particular, in some embodiments, it is not necessary that
   the second substrate bend or deflect in response to the force of a touch on the device.
   [0119]      In operation 908, a transparent force-sensitive structure is applied to a surface of
   the second substrate. Operation 908 is substantially similar to operation 904. In some
   embodiments, the transparent force-sensitive structures are disposed on a surface of the
15 second substrate that faces the first substrate when the layers are combined or assembled
   into the final sensor configuration.
   [0120]      In operation 910, a compliant layer is disposed between the first and second
   substrates. In some embodiments, the compliant layer is formed from one or more layers of
   optically clear adhesive. For example, multiple layers of optically clear adhesive film may be
20 stacked or laminated together to form the compliant layer. In some embodiments, the
   compliant layer is in liquid or gel form and may be injected or otherwise disposed between
   the first and second substrate. In some embodiments, operation 910 includes a curing
   process in which the compliant layer is subjected to a curing agent and/or is allowed to cure
   over time.
25 [0121]      FIG. 10 is a process flow diagram depicting example operations for a process 1000
   of operating a temperature-compensating force sensor. Process 1000 may be used, for
   example, to operate one or more of the force sensors described with respect to FIGS. 2-5,
   above. In particular, process 1000 may be used to compute or estimate the force of a touch
   on a device and compensate for variations or effects of temperature.
30 [0122]      In operation 1002, an occurrence of a user touch may be detected. The touch may
   be detected, for example using a touch sensor. The touch sensor may include, for example,
   a self-capacitive, mutually capacitive, resistive, or other type of touch sensor. In some
   embodiments, the occurrence of a touch may be detected by the force sensor. For example,
   a change in strain or resistance or strain of one or more force-sensitive structures of the
                                                     29

    WO 2015/106183                                                               PCT/US2015/010969
   sensor may be used to detect the occurrence of a touch. In some embodiments, operation
   1002 is not necessary. For example, the other operations of process 1000 may be
   performed on a regularly repeating or irregular interval without first determining if a touch is
   present. For example, process 1000 may be performed and calculate or estimate a zero
 5 applied force, which may be due to the absence or lack of a touch on the device.
   [0123]      In operation 1004, a relative measurement between two or more force-sensitive
   structure may be obtained. As described previously with respect to, for example, FIGS. 2A
   C, 3A-B, and 5A-1, and 8 a relative measurement may be obtained using a voltage divider,
   half bridge, full bridge, or other similar circuit configuration. In some embodiments, an
10 electrical measurement of each individual force-sensitive structure is obtained and the
   measurements are compared using software, firmware, or combination of software/firmware
   and circuit hardware.
   [0124]     In operation 1006, a force estimate may be computed. In some embodiments, the
   force estimate compensates for variations in thermal effects, including, for example a
15 pyroelectric effect, TCR effect, and/or CTE effect, as described above with respect to
   Equations 3 and 4. In particular, the relative measurement obtained in operation 1004 may
   be used in combination with Equations 1 and 2 to compute an estimated strain. The
   estimated strain may then be used to estimate an applied force using, for example, a known
   correlation between the strain of the corresponding force-sensitive structure and an applied
20 force. For example, the strain may correspond to an estimated deflection of the substrate
   (and other relevant layers of the display/sensor stack), which may correspond to a
   respective force on a surface of the device.
   [0125]     FIG. 11 is an additional process flow diagram illustrating example steps of a
   process 1100 for operating a temperature-compensating force sensor. In operation 1102, a
25 location of a user touch may be identified. The location of a user touch may be determined,
   using for example a self-capacitive touch sensor, a mutually capacitive touch sensor, a
   resistive touch sensor, and the like.
   [0126]     In operation 1104 a relative measurement between two or more force-sensitive
   structure may be obtained. As described previously with respect to, for example, FIGS. 2A
30 C, 3A-B, and 5A-1, and 8 a relative measurement may be obtained using a voltage divider,
   half bridge, full bridge, or other similar circuit configuration. In some embodiments, an
   electrical measurement of each individual force-sensitive structure is obtained and the
   measurements are compared using software, firmware, or combination of software/firmware
   and circuit hardware.
                                                      30

    WO 2015/106183                                                                 PCT/US2015/010969
   [0127]      In operation 1106, a force centroid is calculated. For example, the relative
   measurement obtained in operation 1104 may be used to approximate the centroid of the
   applied force at 1106. In some embodiments, the location of the user touch obtained in
   operation 1102 may be used to approximate the centroid of the applied force. In some
 5 embodiments, the geometric centroid of all touches of a multi-touch event may be used to
   approximate the centroid of the applied force. Thereafter, the measured force and the force
   centroid may be forwarded or otherwise relayed to the electronic device in operation 1108.
   [0128]      FIG. 12 illustrates a sample single-layer piezo strain sensor. The piezo film 1202
   may be sandwiched between upper substrate 1210 and lower substrate 1220 and joined to
10 each such substrate by an adhesive 1206, 1208, such as an optically clear adhesive.
   Generally, an electric field is generated by the strain on the piezo film 1202 and is created by
   a combination of stresses in each of the three cardinal directions (referred to as T1, T2, and
    T3 in this discussion). The field D3 may be represented as follows:
                                      D 3 = d3sTi + d3 2 T2 + d33 T3 +p 3 AT,                  Equation 5
15 where AT is a temperature sensitivity of the film, D is a measure of electronic displacement
   and d3 y, d32, and d33 are piezoelectric coefficients of the film with respect to the three axes.
   Thus, the sensor may create a signal due to a change in temperature that is
   undistinguishable from a signal generated due to mechanical strain.
   [0129]      FIG.13 illustrates a sample bimorph piezo strain sensor. Two layers of piezo film
20 1312, 1322 may be laminated together to create a differential strain-sensing device that may
   be used to reduce the effect of temperature on strain measurements, and thus on estimating
   a force resulting from strain measurements. The piezo films 1312, 1322, may be affixed to
   one another by an adhesive (not shown) such as an optically clear adhesive. Likewise, each
   film may be affixed to a substrate 1310, 1320 by an adhesive (also not shown). In contrast
25 to certain embodiments described above, optically clear adhesives or other intervening
   layers between the piezo films are not required to be compliant. For example, the optically
   clear adhesive disposed between the piezo films 1312 and 1322 may be rigid or otherwise
   non-compliant.
   [0130]      The piezo film 1312 of FIG. 13 may be anisotropic. For example, the piezo films
30 1312,1322 may be stretched to orient their polymer chains either uni-axially or bi-axially.
   When stretched, the piezoelectric effect of the film due to mechanical stress is much
   stronger in the direction of stretch than in the transverse direction. In some embodiments,
   the piezoelectric effect may be ten times greater in the direction of stretch than in the
   transverse direction.
                                                     31

    WO 2015/106183                                                                 PCT/US2015/010969
   [0131]     By employing bi-axial and/or uni-axial anisotropic piezo films in a force-sensitive
   stackup, a sensor may be created that is sensitive to only one direction of strain, or, in other
   words, is much more sensitive to strain in one direction than to strains in other directions.
   Thus, anisotropic piezo films such as those shown in FIGS. 13 and 14 may be selectively
 5 stretched to be especially sensitive to strain in a selected direction.
   [0132]     As illustrated in FIG. 13, piezo film 1312 is anisotropic (e.g., stretched) and piezo
   film 1322 is isotropic (e.g., not stretched). The direction of stretch of film 1312 may be
   transverse to the illustrated arrows. Generally, the combination of an anisotropic piezo film
   1312 and an isotropic piezo film 1322, as configured and shown in FIG. 13, generates an
10 electronic displacement D3 (which is used to measure strain) as follows:
                                         j, _      (13      3
                     D3(dj W     - di3iA1   +  ljCfIl               tfi)     +                  Equation 5
   [0133]     Thus, the temperature-dependency of the electronic displacement is canceled out,
   as is the sensitivity of the electrical field to directions other than the one desired. In other
   words, because the electronic displacements of the films effectively reduce to zero, all
15 effects of temperature between the films may be effectively eliminated.
   [0134]     FIG. 14 depicts yet another sample temperature-independent strain sensor that
   may be used to estimate force in two dimensions. Here, films 1402, 1404 are identical to the
   piezo films 1312, 1322 shown in FIG. 13. However, film 1408 is stretched in a direction 90
   degrees offset to that of film 1402, and film 1406 is isotropic.
20 [0135]     By measuring the voltage between films 1404 and 1406 (using e.g., electrode
   1434), the voltage at the joinder of film 1402 and the upper substrate 1410 (using e.g.,
   electrode 1432), and the voltage at the joinder of film 1408 and the lower substrate 1420
   (using e.g., electrode 1436), the strain applied in two directions (such as ninety degrees
   offset, or at other desired angles in alternative embodiments) may be determined. In this
25 manner, force sensitivity and measurement through strain sensing may be provided along
   two axes. Further, the structure may provide a temperature-independent measurement of
   strain in both axes, as the layers compensate for the pyroelectricity of the various piezo
   films. As with FIG. 13, the temperature-independent measurement may be the result of the
   electronic displacements of the films effectively reducing to zero, thereby effectively
30 eliminating all effects of temperature.
   [0136]     FIG. 15 depicts yet another sample temperature-independent strain sensor that
   may be used to estimate force in two dimensions. Here, films 1502, 1504, 1506, and 1508
   may be identical to the correspondingly-identified films of FIG. 14. However, a substrate
                                                       32

    WO 2015/106183                                                                PCT/US2015/010969
   1530 may be positioned between the stack of film 1502 and 1504 and the stack of film 1506
   and 1508. As shown in FIG. 15, electrodes 1532, 1534, 1536, and 1538 may be used to
   measure the voltage at the joinder of respective layers. In this manner, the strain sensor
   may distinguish between two different directions of strain. The different directions may be
 5 used in certain embodiments for directional detection of tactile strain.
   [0137]     As with FIGS. 13 and 14, the temperature-independent measurement from the
   example sensor of FIG. 15 may be the result of the electronic displacements of the films
   effectively reducing to zero, thereby effectively eliminating all effects of temperature.
   [0138]     Similarly, additional layers may be added to embodiments such as those depicted
10 in FIGS. 14 and 15 in order to add sensitivity to additional directions. For example, an
   additional layer may be adapted to be sensitive to strain forty five degrees offset from the
   first or second layer.
   [0139]     One may appreciate that although many embodiments are disclosed above with
   respect to optically transparent force sensors, that the systems and methods described
15 herein may apply equally well to opaque force sensors or force sensors that are not required
   to be transparent. For example, the force sensors described herein may be included below
   a display stack, or within the enclosure of a device. For example, an electronic device may
   be adapted to react to a user squeezing or applying pressure to an enclosure of an
   electronic device. Such a force sensor need not, in all embodiments, be transparent. Still
20 further embodiments may include a force sensor that is translucent. For example, a force
   sensor component may be doped with an ink such that the force sensor appears as a
   particular color or set of colors. In still further embodiments, the force sensor may be
   optionally transparent, translucent or opaque.
   [0140]     Embodiments described herein may be formed in any number of suitable
25 manufacturing processes. For example, in one embodiment, a force-sensitive structure may
   be formed in a roll-to-roll process which may include depositing a force-sensitive material in
   a selected pattern on a substrate, bonding said substrate to one or more additional layers or
   components of an electronic device, and singulating the output of the roll-to-roll process into
   a plurality of individual force-sensitive structures.
30 [0141]     One may appreciate that although many embodiments are disclosed above, that
   the operations and steps presented with respect to methods and techniques described
   herein are meant as exemplary and accordingly are not exhaustive. One may further
   appreciate that alternate step order or fewer or additional steps may be required or desired
   for particular embodiments.
                                                      33

  WO 2015/106183                                                                PCT/US2015/010969
  [0142]     Although the disclosure above is described in terms of various exemplary
  embodiments and implementations, it should be understood that the various features,
  aspects and functionality described in one or more of the individual embodiments are not
  limited in their applicability to the particular embodiment with which they are described, but
5 instead can be applied, alone or in various combinations, to one or more of the other
  embodiments of the invention, whether or not such embodiments are described and whether
  or not such features are presented as being a part of a described embodiment. Thus, the
  breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above
  described exemplary embodiments but is instead defined by the claims herein presented.
                                                    34

    WO 2015/106183                                                                   PCT/US2015/010969
   CLAIMS
   We claim:
            1.        An electronic device having an optically transparent force sensor comprising:
            a first transparent substrate;
            a first force-sensitive layer disposed relative to the first transparent substrate;
            a second transparent substrate disposed below the first substrate;
 5          a second force-sensitive layer disposed relative to the second transparent substrate;
   and
            a compliant layer disposed between the first and second substrates; and
            sensor circuitry that is configured to compare a relative electrical response between
   the first force-sensitive layer and the second force-sensitive layer to compute a temperature
10 compensated force estimate.
            2.        The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the first transparent substrate is
   configured to deflect in response to a force of a touch; and the compliant layer deforms to
   reduce any tension or compression of the second transparent substrate.
            3.        The electronic device of claim 2, wherein the first transparent substrate
   experiences a first amount of tension that is greater than the second transparent substrate
   which experiences a second amount of tension in response to the force of the touch.
            4.        The electronic device of claim 2, wherein the compliant layer includes an air
   gap and the second transparent substrate does not deflect.
            5.        The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the first force-sensitive layer is
   placed in tension in response to the force of a touch and the second force-sensitive layer is
   placed in compression in response to the force of the touch.
            6.        The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the temperature-compensated force
   estimate compensates for variations in temperature of the device.
            7.        The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the compliant layer is configured to
   conduct heat between the first force-sensitive layer and the second force-sensitive layer to
   achieve a substantially uniform temperature distribution.
            8.        The electronic device of claim 1, wherein
            the first force-sensitive layer is formed from a first array of rectilinear force-sensitive
   components; and
                                                     35

    WO 2015/106183                                                                PCT/US2015/010969
           the second force-sensitive layer is formed from a second array of rectilinear force
 5 sensitive components.
            9.        The force sensor of claim 1, wherein the first and second substrates are
   made of glass.
            10.       The force sensor of claim 1, wherein the first and second force-sensitive
   components are made from an indium tin oxide.
            11.       The force sensor of claim 1, wherein the first and second force-sensitive
   components are made of a piezoresistive material.
            12.       The force sensor of claim 1, wherein the first and second force-sensitive
   components are made, at least in part, of one of the group consisting of carbon nanotubes,
   graphene, piezoresistive semiconductors, and piezoresistive metals.
            13.       The force sensor of claim 1, wherein the first and second force-sensitive
   components are made from materials having substantially identical temperature coefficients
   of resistance.
            14.       The force sensor of claim 1, wherein the compliant layer comprises an
   optically clear adhesive.
            15.       The force sensor of claim 1, wherein the compliant layer is formed from of a
   material having a shear modulus less than one tenth of the shear modulus of the first
   transparent substrate.
            16.       An electronic device having an optically transparent force sensor, the device
   comprising:
            a cover;
            a first transparent substrate disposed below the cover;
 5          a first array of force-sensitive components disposed relative to the first transparent
   substrate;
            a second transparent substrate disposed below the first substrate;
            a second array of force-sensitive components disposed relative to the second
   transparent substrate; and
10          a compliant layer disposed between the first and second substrates; and
           sensor circuitry that is configured to compare a relative electrical response between
   components of the first array of force-sensitive components and the second array of force
   sensitive components to compute a temperature-compensated force estimate.
                                                    36

    WO 2015/106183                                                                  PCT/US2015/010969
            17.       The electronic device of claim 16, further comprising:
            a display element disposed below the second transparent substrate.
            18.       The electronic device of claim 16, wherein the first array of force-sensitive
   components includes a subset of edge force-sensitive components positioned along an edge
   of the first array, wherein the edge force-sensitive components are formed from traces that
   are oriented along a direction that is substantially perpendicular to the edge.
            19.       The electronic device of claim 16, wherein the first array of force-sensitive
   components includes a subset of corner force-sensitive components positioned at corners of
   the first array, wherein the corner force-sensitive components are formed from traces that
   are oriented along a diagonal direction.
            20.       An electronic device having an optically transparent force sensor comprising:
            a first transparent substrate;
            a first force-sensitive layer disposed relative to the first transparent substrate;
            a second transparent substrate disposed below the first substrate;
 5          a second force-sensitive layer disposed relative to the second transparent substrate;
   and
            sensor circuitry that is configured to detect a voltage between the first force-sensitive
   layer and the second force-sensitive layer to compute a temperature-compensated force
   estimate, wherein
10          the first force-sensitive layer is formed from an anisotropic piezoelectric film, and
            the second force-sensitive layer is formed from an isotropic piezoelectric film.
            21.       The electronic device of claim 20, further comprising:
            a third force-sensitive layer disposed relative to the second force-sensitive layer; and
            a fourth force-sensitive layer disposed relative to the third force-sensitive layer,
   wherein
 5                    the third force-sensitive layer is formed from an isotropic piezoelectric film,
            and
                      the fourth force-sensitive layer is formed from an anisotropic piezoelectric
            film.
            22.       The electronic device of claim 21, further comprising:
            a third transparent substrate disposed between the second force-sensitive layer and
   the third force-sensitive layer.
                                                       37

  WO 2015/106183                                                                 PCT/US2015/010969
          23.      The electronic device of claim 21, wherein
          the first force-sensitive layer has an increased sensitivity to strain along a first
  direction,
          the fourth force-sensitive layer has an increased sensitivity to strain along a second
5 direction, and
          the first direction is substantially perpendicular to the second direction.
                                                    38

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
