                                                 13
                   FRAMELESS GLASS FENCING COMPONENT
                                            ABSTRACT
In one aspect there is disclosed a frameless glass fencing component (40) for a frameless glass
fencing installation. The frameless glass fencing component (40) is produced from an engineering
plastic and includes a rigid reinforcing member (42).

   1/6
        120
FIGURE 1
FIGURE 2

                                                  1
                    FRAMELESS GLASS FENCING COMPONENT
FIELD
[0001]    The invention relates to a frameless glass fencing component, in particular but not
exclusively, a frameless glass fencing component for use in installing a frameless glass fence for
a swimming pool, balcony, decking or patio.
BACKGROUND
[0002]    Swimming pool barriers are designed such that young children are unable to climb over
them and most countries have strict laws governing what constitutes an acceptable pool barrier.
In Australia, for example, all swimming pool barrier fencing must comply with the Australian
Standard for Swimming Pool Fencing (AS 1926). Some of the stipulations in that standard require
that pool fencing be at least 1,200mm high and that gates be built in such a way that they swing
away from the pool and have a child safety lock.
[0003]    It has become fashionable to provide swimming pool barriers and balcony balustrades in
the form of frameless glass fences. Not only is glass durable to the moist environment of a
swimming pool, it also provides an aesthetic appealing appearance which is in vogue in
contemporary architectural design. A typical frameless glass fence for a pool includes a plurality
of individual tempered glass panels which are supported by spaced apart mini-posts, referred to
as spigots. Typically, two spigots are evenly spaced across the bottom edge of the glass panel and
will clamp onto the panel and support it. Frameless glass fence spigots must not only be strong
to support a glass panel, they must preferably also be corrosion resistant and have favourable
aesthetic features. For this reason conventional spigots are produced from anodized aluminium
or polished stainless steel.
[0004]    Frameless glass fencing for balconies, commonly referred to as glass balustrades,
typically comprise tempered glass balustrade panels supported by, for example, posts, spigots,
standoff fixings, glass clamps or floor glazing channels. Australian Standard AS 1170 requires
that frameless glass fences be designed to prevent a fall from a balcony. The standard further
specifies that (i) the height of the glass fence must be at least 1000mm when measured from the
finished balcony floor level to the top of the balustrade, and (ii) must have a continuous
interlinking handrail. Such handrail is required so as to inhibit a fall temporarily in the event of a
glass panel of the glass balustrade breaking.

                                                    2
[0005]    Drawbacks associated with current components employed in supporting glass panels in
frameless glass fencing installations include that when they are not maintained or looked after for
prolonged periods of time they tend to stain or corrode.
OBJECT
[0006]    It is an object of the present invention to provide an alternative frameless glass fencing
component for use in frameless glass fencing installations which addresses or at least ameliorates
the above drawbacks.
SUMMARY
[0007]    According to a first aspect of the present invention there is disclosed herein a frameless
glass fencing component for a frameless glass fencing installation, wherein the frameless glass
fencing component is (i) produced from an engineering plastic and (ii) has a rigid reinforcing
member embedded within the engineering plastic.
[0008]    In a second aspect there is disclosed herein a frameless glass fencing installation
including at least one glass panel and a frameless glass fencing component attached to the glass
panel, the frameless glass fencing component (i) being produced from an engineering plastic, and
(ii) being reinforced with a rigid reinforcing member embedded within the engineering plastic.
[0009]    In a third aspect there is provided a method of installing a frameless glass fence, the
method including the step of providing a frameless glass fencing component produced from an
engineering plastic wherein a rigid reinforcing member is embedded within the engineering
plastic.
[0010]    Preferably the reinforcing member is produced from steel, aluminium or an engineering
plastic.
[0011]    Preferably the steel is mild steel, stainless steel or an alloy steel.
[0012]    Preferably the engineering plastic is covered with a coating.
[0013]    Preferably the engineering plastic includes a base material.
[0014]    Preferably the engineering plastic includes a base material and a reinforcing filler.
[0015]    Preferably the reinforcing filler includes glass fibre.
[0016]    Preferably the reinforcing filler includes carbon fibre.

                                                  3
[0017]   Preferably the engineering plastic is a polyarylamide.
[0018]   Preferably   the polyarylamide     includes   glass  fibre  reinforcement    wherein the
concentration of the glass fibre reinforcement is between 50% to 60% by volume.
[0019]   Preferably the engineering plastic is an epoxy vinyl ester resin.
[0020]   Preferably the epoxy vinyl ester resin includes glass fibre reinforcement wherein the
concentration of the glass fibre reinforcement is between 50% to 70% by volume.
[0021]   Preferably the base material includes a polyamide.
[0022]   Preferably the polyamide includes Nylon®.
[0023]   Preferably the polyamide includes Zytel@.
[0024]   Preferably the base material includes polyphenylene sulphide (PPS).
[0025]   Preferably the base material includes styrene.
[0026]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing spigot.
[0027]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing latch.
[0028]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing standoff.
[0029]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing support
clamp.
[0030]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing hinge.
[0031]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing rail
connector.
[0032]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing clamp.
[0033]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a standoff face mounted fixing.
[0034]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a top rail for a glass balustrade.
[0035]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing floor
glazing channel.

                                                  4
[0036]    According to a further aspect there is disclosed herein a frameless glass fencing spigot
for a frameless glass fencing installation, wherein the frameless glass fencing spigot is produced
from an engineering plastic and includes (i) a post portion defining a slot operatively adapted to
hold a portion of a glass panel of the frameless glass fencing installation, and (ii) a flange portion
or a threaded portion operatively adapted to secure the post portion in an upright orientation, and
wherein a rigid reinforcing member is embedded within the engineering plastic.
[0037]    Preferably the reinforcing member includes a holding portion and a base portion, the
holding portion including two opposing wall members which define a reinforcing member slot
therebetween, in use a portion of the glass panel being located within the reinforcing member slot.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0038]    Preferred embodiments of the present invention will be described hereinafter, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompany drawings, wherein:
[0039]    Figure 1 is a schematic side view of a first embodiment frameless glass fencing
component, here a frameless glass fencing spigot;
[0040]    Figure 2 is a schematic top view of the frameless glass fencing spigot of Figure 1;
[0041]    Figure 3 is a schematic side view of a second embodiment frameless glass fencing
component, here a frameless glass fencing spigot;
[0042]    Figure 4 is a schematic top view of the frameless glass fencing spigot of Figure 3;
[0043]    Figure 5 is a schematic cross-sectional view of an embodiment frameless glass fencing
spigot reinforced with a reinforcing member;
[0044]    Figure 6 is a schematic side view of the reinforcing member of the frameless glass
fencing spigot of Figure 5;
[0045]    Figure 7 is a schematic bottom view of the reinforcing member of Figure 6;
[0046]    Figure 8 is a schematic cross-sectional view of a further embodiment frameless glass
fencing spigot reinforced with a reinforcing member;
[0047]    Figure 9 is a schematic side view of the reinforcing member of the frameless glass
fencing spigot of Figure 8;
[0048]    Figure 10 is a schematic bottom view of the reinforcing member of Figure 9;

                                                  5
[0049]    Figure 11 is a schematic cross-sectional view of yet a further embodiment frameless glass
fencing spigot reinforced with a reinforcing member;
[0050]    Figure 12 is a schematic side view of the reinforcing member of the frameless glass
fencing spigot of Figure 11;
[0051]    Figure 13 is a schematic bottom view of the reinforcing member of Figure 12;
[0052]    Figure 14 is a schematic perspective view of an embodiment frameless glass fencing
standoff; and
[0053]    Figure 15 is a schematic perspective view of another embodiment frameless glass fencing
standoff.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0054]    Conventional frameless glass fencing components are produced from stainless steel or
anodised aluminium. Drawbacks of employing such materials include relative high weight and
costs. Further drawbacks associated with stainless steel products include that they tend to stain
and corrode over a short or prolonged period of time. Preferred embodiments of the present
invention address those problems by doing away with stainless steel / aluminium and providing
frameless glass fencing components produced from an engineering plastic. Engineering plastics
are plastic materials that are used in applications generally requiring higher performance in the
areas of mechanical properties, heat resistance, chemical resistance, impact and fire retardancy.
Also, as plastic generally does not conduct electricity, this feature will provide enhanced safety
in a moist environment, such as a swimming pool. In particular the preferred engineering plastic
will meet the requirements of AS3000:2007 for earth bonding where frameless glass fencing
spigots are within 1.25m of a pool of water.
[0055]    To provide an aesthetically pleasing appearance the engineering plastic may include an
outer coating having a stainless steel appearance. Such coating may be available in a range of
colours.   Typically, coatings can be applied after surface activation of the engineering plastic
product by either plasma, chemical-based materials or spray coatings. Final coatings can then be
applied by electroplating, plasma surface coating, powder-coating, PVD coating or spray coating.
[0056]    A typical embodiment engineering plastic includes a base material having a filler to
provide added strength / reinforcing. In an embodiment frameless glass fencing component the

                                                 6
filler includes glass fibre. In another embodiment frameless glass fencing component the filler
includes carbon fibre.
[0057]     In an embodiment frameless glass fencing component the base material includes a
polyamide. Typically examples of polyamide which could be employed include those sold under
the trade marks Nylon® and Zytel@.
[0058]     In an alternative embodiment the base material of the engineering plastic includes
polyphenylene sulfide (PPS). In yet a further alternative the base material of the engineering
plastic includes styrene.
[0059]     Figures 1 and 2 show a first embodiment frameless glass fencing component, here a
frameless glass fencing spigot generally indicated with the reference numeral 10. The spigot 10
includes a post portion 12 and an attachment formation, here in the form of a flange portion 14.
The post portion 12 and flange portion 14 is of unitary construction and is produced from an
engineering plastic. In this embodiment the engineering plastic is polyarylamide with a 50-60%
by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration. This engineering plastic is a light weight,
non-corroding and non-conductive alternative to stainless steel and aluminium.              In this
embodiment the engineering plastic has an outer coating to provide the appearance of a stainless
steel or coloured finish.
[0060]     The flange portion 14 includes a plurality of fastener openings 16 for receiving non
illustrated fasteners, for example bolts, to secure the post portion 12 in an upright orientation
adjacent a pool to be fenced in. The post portion 12 defines a slot 18 for receiving an end portion
of a non-illustrated tempered glass panel when constructing a non-illustrated frameless glass
fence. The slot 18 includes a polymer packer 20 to protect the glass panel. Typically, the glass
panel is secured within the slot 18 with non-illustrated grub screws passing through transverse
holes 22 in the post portion 12. In effect a frameless glass fence is constructed in a conventional
manner, but with the stainless steel / aluminium spigots replaced with spigots produced from the
engineering plastic.
[0061]     Although not shown in Figures 1 and 2, the frameless glass fencing spigot 10 is
reinforced with a metal reinforcing member embedded within the engineering plastic.          Below
described embodiments reference Figures 5 to 13 to provide further information on this aspect.
[0062]     Figures 3 and 4 show a second embodiment frameless glass fencing component, here
also a frameless glass fencing spigot, generally indicated with the reference numeral 30. The

                                                  7
spigot 30 includes a post portion 12 similar to that of the spigot 10. The flange portion 14 of the
spigot 10 is replaced with an alternative attachment formation, here a threaded portion 32 for
location in a core drilled hole. As is the case with the spigot 10, the spigot 30 is also produced
from an engineering plastic. However, in this embodiment the engineering plastic is provided in
the form of an epoxy vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement
concentration. This material is resistant to water and other chemicals and has a high strength and
other favourable mechanical properties.
[0063]    Similar to the frameless glass fencing spigot 10, the frameless glass fencing spigot 30 is
reinforced with a non-illustrated metal reinforcing member embedded within the engineering
plastic. The embodiments of Figures 5 to 13 will provide further information on this aspect.
[0064]    In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing latch wherein
the latch is (i) produced from an engineering plastic and (ii) has a rigid reinforcing member
embedded within the engineering plastic. Typically, the engineering plastic is (i) polyarylamide
with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy vinyl ester
resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration. In this embodiment the
reinforcing member is provided in the form of steel. It will of course be appreciated that the
reinforcing member can be produced from a range of materials including aluminium or an
engineering plastic.
[0065]    In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing standoff
wherein the standoff is (i) produced from an engineering plastic and (ii) has a rigid steel
reinforcing member embedded within the engineering plastic. Typically, the engineering plastic
is (i) polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an
epoxy vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0066]    In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing support
clamp wherein the clamp is (i) produced from an engineering plastic and (ii) has a rigid steel
reinforcing member embedded within the engineering plastic. Typically, the engineering plastic
is (i) polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an
epoxy vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0067]    In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing hinge
wherein the hinge is (i) produced from an engineering plastic and (ii) has a rigid reinforcing
member embedded within the engineering plastic.           Typically, the engineering plastic is (i)

                                                    8
polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy
vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0068]    In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing rail connector
wherein the rail connector is (i) produced from an engineering plastic and (ii) has a rigid steel
reinforcing member embedded within the engineering plastic. Typically, the engineering plastic
is (i) polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an
epoxy vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0069]    In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing clamp
wherein the clamp is (i) produced from an engineering plastic and (ii) has a rigid steel reinforcing
member embedded within the engineering plastic.              Typically, the engineering plastic is (i)
polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy
vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0070]    In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing standoff face
mounted fixing wherein the fixing is (i) produced from an engineering plastic and (ii) has a rigid
steel reinforcing member embedded within the engineering plastic. Typically, the standoff face
mounted fixing is a frameless glass fencing standoff face mounted fixing produced from (i)
polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy
vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0071]    It will be appreciated that the invention is not limited to glass barriers for pools, but could
be employed in various frameless glass fencing installations such as glass balustrades on
apartment balconies or glass balustrades in residential dwellings.
[0072]    In a further non-illustrated embodiment there is provided glass balustrade top rail,
wherein the glass balustrade top rail is (i) produced from an engineering plastic and (ii) has a rigid
steel reinforcing member embedded within the engineering plastic.              The engineering plastic
typically is (i) a polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement, or (ii) an
epoxy vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement.
[0073]    In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a method of installing a frameless glass
fence. The method includes the step of providing a frameless glass fencing component wherein
the component is (i) produced from an engineering plastic and (ii) has a rigid reinforcing member
embedded within the engineering plastic. Typically, the engineering plastic is (i) polyarylamide

                                                  9
with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy vinyl ester
resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0074]    In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fence post wherein
the post is (i) produced from an engineering plastic and (ii) has a rigid steel reinforcing member
embedded within the engineering plastic. Specifically, the post is a glass balustrade post produced
from (i) polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii)
an epoxy vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0075]    In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing floor glazing
channel wherein the floor glazing panel is (i) produced from an engineering plastic and (ii) has a
rigid steel reinforcing member embedded within the engineering plastic. Specifically, the floor
glazing channel is produced from (i) polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre
reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass
fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0076]    Figure 5 shows an embodiment frameless glass fencing component 40, here a frameless
glass fencing spigot for a non-illustrated frameless glass fencing installation. The frameless glass
fencing spigot 40 is produced from an engineering plastic, here provided in the form of a
polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration. The frameless
glass fencing spigot 40 is reinforced with a steel reinforcing member 42. In this embodiment the
reinforcing member 42 is provided in the form of an over-moulded insert. In use the reinforcing
member 42 will act to provide additional strength and rigidity for the frameless glass fencing
spigot 40.
[0077]    Referring also to Figures 6 and 7, the reinforcing member 42 includes a holding portion
44 and a base portion 46. The holding portion 44 and base portion 46 are of unitary construction.
In this embodiment the holding portion 44 includes two opposing wall members 48, 50 which
define a reinforcing member slot 52 therebetween. In use a non-illustrated glass panel will be
positioned in the reinforcing member slot 52 provided between the wall members 48, 50.
[0078]    The reinforcing member 42 is over-moulded with engineering plastic and may require
additional techniques to eliminate delamination of the reinforcing member from the over-mould
material.   Such techniques may include mechanical locking, surface primer solutions, plasma
treating or other surface treatment technology to enhance adhesion between the reinforcing
member and over-mould material.

                                                  10
[0079]    Figure 8 shows another embodiment frameless glass fencing spigot 60 for a non
illustrated frameless glass fencing installation. The frameless glass fencing spigot 60 is produced
from an engineering plastic provided in the form of a polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume
glass fibre reinforcement concentration. The frameless glass fencing spigot 60 is reinforced with
a steel reinforcing member 62. The reinforcing member 62 is provided in the form of an over
moulded insert and operatively acts to provide additional strength and rigidity for the frameless
glass fencing spigot 60 when a glass panel is held.
[0080]    Referring also to Figures 9 and 10, the reinforcing member 42 includes a holding portion
64 and a base portion 66.       The holding portion 64 and the base portion 66 are of unitary
construction. In this embodiment the holding portion 64 includes two opposing wall members
68, 70 which define a reinforcing member slot 72 therebetween. In use a non-illustrated glass
panel is located within the reinforcing member slot 72 formed between the wall members 68, 70.
The reinforcing member 62 differs from the reinforcing member 42 in that the base portion 66 of
the reinforcing member 62 is of longer dimension than the base portion 46 of the reinforcing
member 42.
[0081]    Figure 11 shows yet another embodiment frameless glass fencing spigot 80 for a non
illustrated frameless glass fencing installation. The frameless glass fencing spigot 80 is produced
from an engineering plastic provided in the form a polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass
fibre reinforcement concentration. The frameless glass fencing spigot 80 is reinforced with a steel
reinforcing member 82. The reinforcing member 82 is provided in the form of an over-moulded
insert and operatively acts to provide additional strength and rigidity for the frameless glass
fencing spigot 80.
[0082]    Referring also to Figures 12 and 13, the reinforcing member 82 includes a holding
portion 84 and a base portion 86. The holding portion 84 and the base portion 86 are of unitary
construction. In this embodiment the holding portion 84 includes two opposing wall members
88, 90 which define a reinforcing member slot 92 therebetween. In use a non-illustrated glass
panel will be located within the reinforcing member slot 92 formed between the wall members
88, 90. The reinforcing member 82 differs from the reinforcing member 62 in that the base portion
86 of the reinforcing member 82 includes two opposing legs 94 defining a base slot 96. In the
base portions 46, 64 of the reinforcing members 42, 62 there is no such base slot, rather an oblong
cavity is defined by four base wall members, indicated respectively with the reference numerals
47, 67 in Figures 7 and 10 respectively.

                                                  11
[0083]    All three base members 40, 60, 80 includes a hole 100, shown in Figures 7, 10 and 13
respectively, to allow the passage of plastic therethrough.
[0084]    Figure 14 shows an embodiment frameless glass fencing standoff 110 for use in
constructing a non-illustrated frameless glass fencing installation. Persons skilled in the art will
appreciate that standoffs are used to secure glass panels to structural surfaces. The frameless glass
fencing standoff 110 includes a standoff body 112 and a standoff head 114 produced from a
polyarylamide having a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration. The standoff
body and standoff head 112, 114 are mounted to a threaded rod 116. The threaded rod 116 is
operatively secured to a structural surface. Both the standoff body 112 and the standoff head 114
includes a rigid reinforcing member, respectively indicated with the reference numerals 118, 120
embedded within the polyarylamide.
[0085]      Figure 15 shows another embodiment frameless glass fencing standoff 130.              The
frameless glass fencing standoff 130 is similar to the frameless glass fencing standoff 110 in that
it includes a first standoff body 132 and a standoff head 134 produced from a polyarylamide
having a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration. The standoff body and
standoff head 132, 134 are mounted to a threaded rod 136. The standoff body 132 and standoff
head 134 each includes a rigid steel reinforcing member, respectively indicated with the reference
numerals 138, 140 embedded within the polyarylamide. The frameless glass fencing standoff 130
further includes a second spacing standoff body 142 also produced from a polyarylamide having
a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration. The second spacing standoff body
142 is operatively mounted to the threaded rod 136 and located between the first standoff body
132 and a non-illustrated structural surface. The spacing standoff body 142 includes a rigid steel
reinforcing member 144 embedded within the polyacrylamide.
[0086]    It will be appreciated that the reinforcing member could be produced from a range of
products, including an engineering plastic, steel including mild steel, stainless steel or alloy steel
and aluminium.
[0087]    Although the invention is described above in relation to preferred embodiments, it will
be appreciated by those skilled in the art that it is not limited to those embodiments, but may be
embodied in many other forms.

                                                  12
CLAIMS
1.        A frameless glass fencing component for a frameless glass fencing installation, wherein
the frameless glass fencing component is (i) produced from an engineering plastic and (ii) has a
rigid reinforcing member embedded within the engineering plastic.
2.        A frameless glass fencing component according to claim 1, wherein the reinforcing
member is produced from steel, aluminium or an engineering plastic.
3.        A frameless glass fencing component according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the engineering
plastic is a polyacrylamide, a polyamide or an epoxy vinyl ester resin.
4.        A frameless glass fencing spigot for a frameless glass fencing installation, wherein the
frameless glass fencing spigot is produced from an engineering plastic and includes (i) a post
portion defining a slot operatively adapted to hold a portion of a glass panel of the frameless glass
fencing installation, and (ii) a flange portion or a threaded portion operatively adapted to secure
the post portion in an upright orientation, and wherein a rigid reinforcing member is embedded
within the engineering plastic.
5.     A frameless glass fencing spigot according to claim 4, wherein the reinforcing member
includes a holding portion and a base portion, the holding portion including two opposing wall
members which define a reinforcing member slot therebetween, in use a portion of the glass panel
being located within the reinforcing member slot.
                                    Beyond Architectural Pty Ltd
                                Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                           Meyer West IP

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
