ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to an grilling oven for foodstuffs comprising an oven casing
having rows of apertures/gaps in the lower section uniformly facing various directions. The
grilling oven has three layers disposed apart from each other by the supporting bars
attached to the plates/grids in the bottom-to-the-top order. The plates/grids include the
plate/grid containing the burning materials, the plate/grid is used to scatter and increase the
heat and prevent the fat and nutritious juices from overflowing to the burning materials, the
plate/grid containing the foodstuff to be grilled. These plates/grids and supporting bars are
removable from the oven casing since the diameters of the plates/grids are smaller than the
internal diameter of the oven wall. The oven cover has various rows of ventilation holes
disposed uniformly throughout the cover to adjust and guide - distribute the heat in contact
with the foodstuff more uniformly so that the foodstuff will not be burnt out.
Fig 1
                                                9

          1/2
    5.4.
4.1
3.1
 12
1.
         Fig1
              Fig2

GRILLING OVEN
Technical Field
 [001] The present invention relates to grilling oven for food.
Background of the Invention
 [002] The following discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
     understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is not an
     acknowledgement or admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of
    the common general knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
 [003] Currently in the market, when using most of the types of electric, gas, charcoal or
     lumber grilling ovens, etc., the flame generally comes into direct contact with food to
     be grilled, thereby easily resulting in burning the same since the flame has been
     non-uniformly dispensed, and therefore the food hygiene matter could not be
    guaranteed.
 [004] It becomes more dangerous when grilling the food which has been marinated
    with oil, fat or inherently containing certain oil and/or fat amount like meat, fish or
    those containing nutritious juice such as vegetables, tubers, fruits, etc.. When being
    grilled at high temperature, fat and nutritious juices have been melted and dropped
     down, being partially burnt to generate a uncontrolled flame which has resulted in
     increasing the temperature that might burn out the food and emit toxic gas and
     substances that might in turn cause cancer or might be harmful to human health and
     pollute the surrounding environment. A part of fat and nutritious juices may flow
     downward to reduce the temperature of the grilling compartment, to extinguish
     burning materials leading into wasting energy, inconvenience and time-consuming
    for the users when grilling food.
 [005] The cover of the grilling oven generally are disposed (in other words, equipped
    with) the ventilation holes on the top thereof (centrally) (for example, as disclosed in
    the US Patent No. 7802565 B2). Therefore, when grilling, the heat tends to
     accumulate at the centre of the grilling oven and the temperature thereat is higher
                                               1

    than that at the surrounding regions thereby the food in these regions tends to be
     burned out before being grilled thoroughly. In other words, in this arrangement when
    grilling, the convection level between the centre of the grilling oven and the outside
     is still relatively limited and the temperature always tends to concentrate at the
     centre of the grilling oven and is higher than that at the surrounding regions. This
     results in decreasing the quality of the food, difficulty in grilling and time-consuming
     as well as generating toxicants which causes cancer and affects the health of the
     users.
 [006] A technical solution entitled "Grilling oven for food without using the electricity" as
     specified in the Vietnamese utility solution application No. 2-2007-00113 HI filed July
     31, 2007, may be provided where food drippings such as drops of oil, fat and
     nutritious juices may drop downwardly and overflow through a hole slot that may
     extinguish burning materials or burn out the food when grilling.
Summary of the Invention
 [007] The objective of the present invention is to provide a grilling oven for foods as
     defined in claim 1 which process solutions the above mentioned disadvantages.
 [008] Various embodiments may be as defined in the dependent claims.
 [009] To achieve this objective, the grilling oven for foods according to the present
     invention comprises: an oven casing having an oven door and air supplying gaps.
    The oven casing may contain rows of apertures/gaps (holes) uniformly facing
    various directions, and the oven door may be disposed close to the central section
     of the oven casing which serves to exchange frame/shelve containing burning
     materials, wherein the layers are disposed in the oven casing spaced from each
     other in a bottom-to-top order which include a burning material containing plate/grid,
     a heat scattering and increasing plate/grid that can prevent the oil, fat and/or
     nutritious juices from overflowing to the burning materials and a plate/grid containing
    the food to be grilled. The plates/grids and supporting bars, which are attached to
    the plates/grids may be composed of metal materials which have the excellent heat
     conductivity therefore the heat shall be scattered fairly uniformly throughout the
    grilling compartment.
                                               2

 [010] In other words, the grilling oven includes three plates/grids spaced from each
     other by supporting bars attached to the plates/grids in the bottom-to-top order
     including the burning material containing plate/grid which generates the flame, the
     heat scattering and increasing plate/grid (e.g., the heat radiating and up-regulating
     plate/grid or the heat conditioning plate/grid) that can also prevent the oil, fat and/or
     nutritious drippings from falling downwardly to the burning materials and the
     plate/grid containing the food to be grilled.
 [011] These plates/grids and supporting bars can be removed from the oven casing
     since the diameters of the plates/grids is smaller than the internal diameter of the
     oven wall.
 [012] The grilling oven may also include an oven cover containing various lines/rows of
    ventilation holes uniformly disposed over the whole surface of the cover and a
     blocking panel system to open/close the ventilation holes in order to guide the heat
     conducting to adjust the temperature in the grilling compartment for foods and more
     uniformly guide-distribute the heat in contact with the food to avoid the food's
     burning out.
 [013] In other words, the cover of the grilling oven has rays of holes arranged from the
     centre to the edge of the cover of the grilling oven, the rays of holes are arranged
     uniformly on the surface of the cover of the grilling oven in order to adjust the
    temperature in the grilling compartment to have a more uniform contact with food in
    that makes the food roasted faster and avoiding the food's burning out and potential
     cancer because of using the grilled food.
Brief Description of Drawings
 [014] Further features of the present invention are more fully described in the following
     description of several non-limiting embodiments thereof. This description is included
     solely for the purposes of exemplifying the present invention.        It should not be
     understood as a restriction on the broad summary, disclosure or description of the
     invention as set out above. The description will be made with reference to the
     accompanying drawings in which:
                                                3

                 Fig. 1 is an enlarged view of the inventive grilling oven parts when
                 disassembled;
                 Fig. 2 is a detailed view of the inventive grilling oven when assembled;
                 Fig. 3 is a perspective view of the heat conditioning plate 3; and
                 Fig. 4 is a cross-sectional perspective view along the line 4-4' of the heat
                 conditioning plate 3.
Detailed Description of the Invention
 [015] According to Fig. 1, the grilling oven for foods of the present invention can be
     cylindrical, comprising an oven casing 1 having an oven door 1.1, an oven door 1.3,
     a sliding rail 1.2 to close/open the oven door, air supplying gaps 1.4. The oven
     contains three plates/grids arranged in the bottom-to-the-top order: a burning
     material containing plate/grid 2, a heat scattering and increasing plate/grid 3 (or a
     heat conditioning       plate/grid) in the form      of a metal      panel having    holes
     (gaps/apertures) uniformly disposed in order to scatter - increase the heat, and a
     plate/grid containing the food to be grilled 4 also made of metal. There are
     supporting bars disposed inside the oven attached to plate/grid 2 in the bottom-to
     the-top order being the plates/grids connected to the upper supporting bars 2.1 and
     the lower supporting bars 2.2 to have the burning material placed thereon. In other
     words, the three plates/grids are spaced from each other and from the bottom of the
     oven by means of supporting bars (2.1, 2.2, 4.2) attached around the circumference
     of plates/grids. The plate/grid 4 may also be composed of a metal grid 4.1 and
     supporting bars 4.2 for food to be grilled. These plates/grids can be easily removed
     from the oven casing 1 because the diameters of these plates/grids are smaller than
     internal diameter of the oven wall.
    [016]        At the edges of the holes (gaps/apertures) of the heat scattering and
        increasing plate/grid 3 are disposed cone-shaped tubes 3.1 higher than the metal
        panel surface in order to prevent the oil, fat and nutritious from overflowing into
                                                 4

       contact with the burning materials and grilling compartment. Figures 3 and 4
       show     the   cone-shaped     tubes    3.1.   The   edges    of  the   holes    that
       constructed/pressed and folded into cone-shaped tubes 3.1 of the heat
       conditioning plate/grid 3 and the top portion of the cone-shaped tube is higher
       than the top surface of the heat conditioning plate/grid 3.
[017] At the edges of the holes (gaps/apertures) of the heat scattering and increasing
    plate/grid 3 are disposed cone-shaped tubes 3.1 higher than the metal panel surface
    in order to prevent the oil, fat and nutritious from overflowing into contact with the
    burning materials     and grilling compartment.      The edges of the holes that
    constructed/pressed and folded into cone-shaped tubes 3.1 of the heat conditioning
    plate/grid 3 and the top portion of the cone-shaped tube is higher than the top
   surface of the heat conditioning plate/grid 3.
[018] During the grilling, some oil, fat, juices from the foods flowed into the plate/grid 3
   as the edges of the gaps/apertures on the plate/grid 3 having the cone-shaped tubes
   and being higher than the plate/grid surface therefore the oil, fat, and juice drops
    could not drop directly through the holes (gaps/apertures) due to the pressure
    created by the flame and the heat against the holes (gaps/apertures), therefore
   dropped onto the surface of the plate/grid 3. At the same time, the oil, fat and juices
   would not be able to overflow over the cone-shaped tubes 3.1 on the plate/grid 3
   and being higher than the surface of the plate/grid. This is because.pressure rises
   when the hot air moves from bottom to top, producing force which acts against the
   food drippings and thereby preventing them from falling downwardly and overflowing
   through the cone-shaped tubes to the burning department, causing extra burning
    reaction or extinguishing the burning materials. Instead, the oil, fat and juices
   automatically flowed to reach the internal oven wall and then to the bottom layer of
   oven. Therefore the oil, fat and juices could not be burnt out during the grilling of the
   foods, thereby the grilled foodstuff became safer.
[019] In other words, the plate/grid 3 may include the metal panel surface having a
    plurality of holes (gaps), each hole (gap) being spaced apart from a neighbouring
    hole (gap); and the plurality of cone-shaped tubes (3.1), each cone-shaped tube
   extended upwardly from each hole (gap) of the panel surface. The cone-shaped
                                              5

   tube is designed and shaped to prevent oil, fat, juices from the foods from dropping
   through the hole (gap) due to the pressure created by cone-shaped tubes (3.1).
[020] The oven cover 5 may have various lines/rows of ventilation holes 5.1 disposed
    uniformly throughout the cover in order to distribute the heat into contact with food
    more uniformly so as to prevent the food from burning out. The oven cover 5 may
   also have a blocking panel system 5.2 (inside and outside of the cover) to
    close/open the ventilation holes.
[021] In other words, the oven cover contains hole rays 5.1 running from the top of the
    cover to the edge thereof. The holes on the hole rays 5.1 are uniformly arranged on
   the surface of the oven cover 5, thereby, allowing the heat inside the grilling oven to
   escape outwards and more uniformly distributed in the grilling compartment, to
   actively convey the heat and adjust-distribute the temperature, increase the
    pressure in contact with food more uniformly in the grilling compartment that shall
    make the food roasted/cooked more evenly thereby not being burnt out.
[022] The oven door 1.3 may be disposed in the central section of the casing serves to
    close/open for exchanging the frame/shelve containing the burning materials 6
    composed of grid 6.1.
[023] The grilling oven was operated in the following manner: the burning material
    containing plate/grid 2 was placed in the oven casing 1, the frame/shelve containing
   the burned materials 6 (or ignited burning materials) was put on top of (i.e., placed
    above) the plate/grid 2. The oven door 1.1 was closed, the plate/grid 3 was placed
   on the top and then the plate/grid 4 was put on top of (i.e., above) the plate/grid 3;
   the food to be grilled was placed on the plate/grid 4, the cover 5 was closed.
[024] When grilling, the hot air flow passed through the holes (gaps/apertures) to
    convey the heat upwards. Since the holes were uniformly disposed throughout the
   oven cover, the heat had been guided and scattered uniformly in the grilling
    compartment into uniform contact with the food and exit uniformly so that the food
   was uniformly grilled and not burnt out. In other words, the heat and pressure from
    beneath followed the cone-shaped tubes 3.1 together with the active guide of the
    hole rays 5.1, and was uniformly dispensed to food of grilling compartment so that
                                            6

   the food was uniformly, evenly grilled. The oil, fat drippings were blocked by means
    of the cone-shaped tubes 3.1 and flowed outwardly on the surface of plate/grid 3
   toward the edges and followed the internal oven wall to flow downwardly, thereby
    not overlapping over burning materials and not extinguishing the same, thereby
    avoiding burning out the food.
[025] Modifications and variations as would be apparent to a skilled addressee are
    deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
[026] Further, it should be appreciated that the scope of the invention is not limited to
   the scope of the embodiments disclosed.
[027] Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
    "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
    imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of
    any other integer or group of integers.
                                              7

Claims
1.      A grilling oven for foods comprising:
        an oven case (1) having air supplying gaps; three plates/grids arranged to be
positioned in a bottom-to-top order within the oven case (1); and an oven cover
arranged to be placed over the oven case (1), wherein the three plates/grids
comprise a burning material containing plate/grid (2), a plate/grid containing foods to
be grilled (4), and a heat scattering and increasing plate/grid (3) arranged to be
positioned between the burning material containing plate/grid (2) and the plate/grid
containing foods to be grilled (4); wherein the heat scattering and increasing
plate/grid (3) comprises a metal panel surface having a plurality of holes, each hole
being spaced apart from a neighbouring hole; wherein at edges of the holes of the
heat scattering and increasing plate/grid (3) are disposed cone-shaped tubes (3.1)
higher than the metal panel surface.
2.      The grilling oven of claim 1, wherein the oven cover further comprises a
plurality of lines/rows of ventilation holes, wherein each line/row of ventilation holes
(5.1) is disposed radially from a center of the oven cover (5) to a peripheral edge of
the oven cover (5), wherein the ventilation holes are uniformly disposed on the oven
cover along the line/row.
                                             8

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
        Fig 1                              1/2
Fig 2

                         2/2
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              3.1
                                4’
                                           3
                    4
                        Fig 3
                3
                        Fig 4
                                     3.1

