                                           ABSTRACT
           A monitoring system for industrial vehicles, comprising: a storage device monitor
   comprising: a wireless transceiver; a sensor capable of sensing an energy storage device
   characteristic; and controller coupled to the wireless transceiver and the sensor; a
 5 communication device mountable on an industrial vehicle, the communication device
   comprising a wireless transceiver; and a load that is electrically connected to the
   communication device, wherein the load is external to and independent from the storage
   device monitor; wherein: the communication device is programmed to transmit an
   encoded message to the load; the controller of the storage device monitor is programmed
10 to: detect, using the sensor, the encoded message by sensing changes in the energy storage
   device characteristic that occur responsive to the communication device transmitting the
   encoded message to the load; convert the encoded message into a discovery parameter;
   and pair with the communication device across a wireless network based upon the
   discovery parameter; and the communication device and the storage device monitor
15 wirelessly communicate information between each other using the paired wireless
   connection.
           FIG.4

                      5/8
    100
 102          DETECT ENCODED MESSAGE
104         CONVERT ENCODED MESSAGE TO
                  DISCOVERY NAME
106
        106             PAIR
108           WIRELESSLY COMMUNICATE
                   FIG. 4

           PAIRING OF A BATTERY MONITOR TO A COMMUNICATION DEVICE
                                       RELATED APPLICATION
 5         This   application     is a divisional      application of Australian   Application No.
   2014240128, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.             Most of the
   disclosure of that application is included herein. However, reference may be made to the
   specification of that application as filed to gain further understanding of the invention
   claimed herein.
10
                                            TECHNICAL FIELD
           The present disclosure relates in general to wirelessly linking two communications
   devices.
15                                         BACKGROUND ART
           Industrial batteries represent a significant operating cost for operators of fleets of
   industrial vehicles.    In this regard, operating cost is realized in both servicing the battery
   (e.g., recharging the battery, performing            maintenance on the battery, etc.)    and in
   replacement of a worn out battery.
20         Lead-acid batteries represent a predominant type of industrial battery, especially for
   electrically operated vehicles such as forklift trucks. However, despite over one hundred
   years of proven reliability in use and relatively low acquisition cost per kilowatt hour, lead
   acid batteries, like all batteries still require service and eventual replacement.
25                                   DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION
           According to various aspects of the present disclosure, a method of pairing a battery
   monitor that monitors an energy storage device such as an industrial battery, to a
   communication device, is provided.             The communication device may be located for
   instance, on an industrial vehicle, on a battery charger, etc.            The method comprises
30 detecting, by the battery monitor, an encoded message by sensing changes in a characteristic
   of the energy storage device that occur responsive to the communication device transmitting
   the encoded message to a component, e.g., of the industrial vehicle, battery charger or other
   structure   to which      the    communication      device   is associated.   For  instance,  the
   communication device may transmit the encoded message to a component such as a load
35 that is external (not related to or otherwise associated with) the battery monitor.        In the
   above example, the energy storage device sources the current necessary to drive the load,

   which is detected by the battery monitor. The method also comprises converting, by the
   battery monitor, the encoded message into a discovery parameter and setting up a paired
   wireless connection with the communication device using the discovery parameter. Still
   further, the method comprises using the paired wireless connection thereafter, to wirelessly
 5 communicate information between the battery monitor and the communication device.
           According to further aspects of the present disclosure, a method of pairing a battery
   monitor to a communication device, e.g.,         on an industrial vehicle is provided.    The
   industrial vehicle is powered by an energy storage device and the battery monitor is
   operatively configured to monitor the energy storage device installed in the industrial
10 vehicle.   The method comprises transmitting, by the communication device, an encoded
   message to a component that is external to the battery monitor. The encoded message is
   transmitted so as to be detected by the battery monitor sensing changes in a characteristic of
   the energy storage device responsive to the encoded message.           The encoded message
   corresponds to a unique discovery parameter. Notably, the discovery parameter is known to
15 the communication device. Moreover, the battery monitor detects the encoded message, and
   thus the battery monitor learns the unique discovery parameter.          The method further
   comprises setting up a paired wireless connection between the battery monitor and the
   communication device using the discovery parameter and using the paired wireless
   connection thereafter, to wirelessly communicate information between the battery monitor
20 and the communication device.
           According to yet further aspects of the present disclosure, a method of pairing a
   battery monitor that monitors an energy storage device, to a communication device, is
   provided. The method comprises using a current sensor coupled to the battery monitor to
   detect an encoded message by sensing changes in current responsive to the communication
25 device transmitting the encoded message to a load, where the load is electrically coupled to
   the communication device. The method also comprises converting the encoded message
   into a discovery parameter and setting up a paired wireless connection between the
   communication device and the battery monitor using the discovery parameter. The method
   still further comprises using the paired wireless connection thereafter, to wirelessly
30 communicate information between the battery monitor and the communication device.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
           FIG. 1 is a schematic of an illustrative operating environment in which aspects of the
   disclosure herein may be practiced;
35         FIG. 2 is a view of an industrial vehicle having an energy storage device, e.g., an
   industrial energy storage device, which powers the industrial vehicle, a battery monitor that

   monitors the energy storage device, and a communication device that functions as a
   communication device for wirelessly communicating with a computing environment,
   according to aspects of the present disclosure;
           FIG. 3A is a block diagram of some of the features and the relationships between the
 5 battery monitor and the communication device of FIG. 2;
           FIG. 3B is a block diagram of some of the features and the relationships between the
   battery monitor and a communication device provided on a battery recharger;
           FIG. 4 is a flow chart of a method for pairing the battery monitor to the
   communication device, according to aspects of the present disclosure;
10         FIG. 5 is a flow chart of a method for pairing the battery monitor to the
   communication device from the perspective of the battery monitor, according to aspects of
   the present disclosure;
           FIG. 6 is a flow chart of a method for pairing the battery monitor to the
   communication device from the perspective of the communication device, according to
15 aspects of the present disclosure;
           FIG. 7 is a diagram of an exemplary computer processing system for implementing
   the methods and processes described more fully herein.
20                      MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
           The present invention provides a monitoring system for industrial vehicles,
   comprising:
           a storage device monitor comprising:
                   a wireless transceiver;
25                 a sensor capable of sensing an energy storage device characteristic; and
                   a controller coupled to the wireless transceiver and the sensor;
           a communication device mountable on an industrial vehicle, the communication
   device comprising a wireless transceiver; and
           a load that is electrically connected to the communication device, wherein the load is
30 external to and independent from the storage device monitor;
           wherein:
                   the communication device is programmed to transmit an encoded message to
           the load;
                   the controller of the storage device monitor is programmed to:
35                 detect, using the sensor, the encoded message by sensing changes in the
           energy storage device characteristic that occur responsive to the communication

           device transmitting the encoded message to the load;
                   convert the encoded message into a discovery parameter; and
                   pair with the communication device across a wireless network based upon
           the discovery parameter; and
 5                 the communication device and the storage device monitor wirelessly
           communicate information between each other using the paired wireless connection.
   The present invention also provides monitoring system comprising:
           a storage device monitor that is powered by an energy storage device to which the
   storage device monitor is attached, the storage device monitor comprising:
10                 a wireless transceiver;
                   a sensor capable of sensing an energy storage device characteristic; and
                   a controller coupled to the wireless transceiver and the sensor;
           a communication device mounted on a charger, the communication device
   comprising a wireless transceiver; and
15         a load that is electrically connected to the communication device, wherein the load is
   external to and independent from the storage device monitor;
           wherein:
                   the communication device is programmed to transmit an encoded message to
           the load;
20                 the controller of the storage device monitor is programmed to:
                            detect, using the sensor, the encoded message by sensing changes in
                   the energy storage device characteristic that occur responsive to the
                   communication device transmitting the encoded message to the load;
                            convert the encoded message into a discovery parameter; and
25                          pair with the communication device across a wireless network based
                   upon the discovery parameter.
   According to various aspects of the present disclosure, approaches are provided for uniquely
   pairing a battery monitor to a communication device for wireless communication
   therebetween.     This allows, for instance, battery usage information to be wirelessly
30 communicated from the battery monitor to the communication device.               Moreover, the
   pairing may allow the communication device to communicate information to the battery
   monitor. In an exemplary implementation, a battery monitor is provided on an industrial
   vehicle battery for monitoring battery use. As such, when the battery is installed in an
   industrial vehicle, the battery monitor is mobile with the industrial vehicle. The industrial
35 vehicle may also have a communication device that allows communication between a

   remote server computer and the industrial vehicle. As such, the communication device is
   also mobile with the same industrial vehicle as the battery monitor.
            Connecting the battery monitor to the communication device with direct wire
   connections may not be practical or desirable. For instance, it may be possible to damage
 5 the wire(s) connecting the battery monitor to the communication device during the
   installation and the removal of the battery, during use of the industrial vehicle, or through
   other activities. Moreover, a user installing a battery in the industrial vehicle may forget to
   make the connection between the battery monitor and the communication device.
   Accordingly, aspects of the present disclosure herein provide wireless communication to be
10 carried out between the battery monitor and the communication device, while both the
   battery monitor and the communication device are mounted, installed on, or otherwise
   coupled to the same industrial vehicle.
           Wireless communication requires creating a unique communication link between the
   battery monitor and the communication device on the same industrial vehicle. The wireless
15 communication may be carried out by a process referred to herein as "pairing". Essentially,
   one device, e.g., the battery monitor, wirelessly broadcasts its existence, and the other
   device, e.g., the communication device on the industrial vehicle, detects the battery monitor.
           The battery monitor typically remains attached to the corresponding industrial
   battery. Moreover, industrial batteries are often moved between industrial vehicles. To
20 compound the issues, it is often the case that numerous industrial vehicles may be in close
   proximity to one another. As such, a communication device on a first industrial vehicle may
   see numerous battery monitors broadcasting their existence. As such, aspects of the present
   disclosure herein, provides systems, methods and computer program products that allow a
   battery monitor attached to an industrial vehicle battery (which is installed in a given
25 industrial vehicle), to uniquely and positively pair with the communication device also
   attached to the same industrial vehicle, in a fully automated way, without the need for
   manual intervention.
           Accordingly, aspects of the present disclosure provide for the wireless pairing of the
   battery monitor to the communication device so that the communication device can receive
30 battery usage information wirelessly from the battery monitor. The unique pairing between
   the battery monitor and the communication device is carried out without operator
   intervention or other operator-required inputs, making the collection of battery usage
   information automated.
35                                      System Architecture

           Aspects of the present disclosure comprise systems that enable industrial vehicles to
   wirelessly    communicate     with   applications   deployed    in an     enterprise   computing
   environment. As used herein, an industrial vehicle is any equipment that is capable of
   moving or otherwise being moved about a work site. Exemplary industrial vehicles include
 5 materials handling vehicles, such as forklift trucks, reach trucks, turret trucks, walkie stacker
   trucks, tow tractors, hand operated pallet trucks, etc.
           Referring now to the drawings and particularly to FIG. 1, an exemplary computing
   environment     10   is illustrated, which     includes  components     that support wireless
   communication capabilities.       A plurality of industrial vehicles 12, such as materials
10 handling vehicles (shown as forklift trucks for convenience of illustration), each includes a
   communications device that enables that industrial vehicle 12 to wirelessly communicate
   with a remote processing device, such as an industrial vehicle application server 14. The
   industrial vehicle application server 14 may further interact with a data resource 16, e.g.,
   one or more databases, data stores or other sources of information, to facilitate interaction
15 with the industrial vehicles 12 as will be described in greater detail herein.
           The computing environment 10 may further support additional processing devices
   18, which may comprise for example, servers, personal computers, etc. One or more of the
   processing devices 18 may also communicate with the industrial vehicles 12 and/or the
   industrial vehicle application server 14 across the computing environment 10.
20         The wireless communication architecture may be based upon a standard wireless
   fidelity (WiFi) infrastructure, such as may be deployed using standard 802.1 1.xx wireless
   networks for a communications protocol.           However, any other suitable protocol may
   alternatively be implemented. In an exemplary WiFi implementation, one or more wireless
   access points 20 may be utilized to relay data between a wireless transceiver of each
25 industrial vehicle 12 and one or more wired devices of the computing environment 10, e.g.,
   the industrial vehicle application server 14.
           Moreover, the computing environment 10 may be supported by one or more hubs 22
   and/or other networking components that interconnect the various hardware and/or software
   processing devices, including for example, routers, firewalls, network interfaces and
30 corresponding interconnections.      The particular networking components provided in the
   computing environment 10 may thus be selected to support one or more intranets, extranets,
   local area networks (LAN), wide area networks (WAN), wireless networks (WiFi), the
   Internet,  including the world wide web, and/or other arrangements                  for enabling
   communication across the computing environment 10, either real time or otherwise, e.g., via
35 time shifting, batch processing, etc.

           In this regard, the computing environment 10 may make up part of a larger
   computing enterprise. A computing enterprise may link computer processing devices across
   one or more locations, where the processing devices are under the control, ownership or
   supervision of a common entity. For instance, a warehouse may have two or more physical
 5 buildings organized such that each building forms a computing environment 10, and the two
   computing environments 10 can be linked so to form a computing enterprise.
           Also, one or more computing devices may further communicate with a remote server
   30 across a network 32 such as the Internet.       The remote server 30 may comprise, for
   example, a third party server (e.g., operated by the industrial vehicle manufacturer) that
10 interacts with the industrial vehicles 12, the industrial vehicle application server 14,
   processing devices 18 of the computing environment(s) 10, processing devices of the
   computing enterprise(s), or combinations thereof. The remote server 30 may further interact
   with a data resource 34, e.g., one or more databases, data stores or other sources of
   information.
15
                                  Industrial Vehicle Data Collection
           Referring to FIG. 2, an industrial vehicle 12 includes a communication device 38
   (also referred to herein as an information linking device), an industrial vehicle battery 40
   comprised of a plurality of battery cells 42 and a battery monitor 44 that monitors battery
20 usage.    The communication device 38 is utilized as part of a comprehensive vehicle
   management system that works in cooperation with one or more servers, e.g., as described
   above with reference to FIG. 1. Similarly, the battery monitor 44 is utilized as part of a
   comprehensive battery management system that also works in cooperation with one or more
   servers, e.g., as described above with reference to FIG. 1.
25         The communication device 38 and other aspects of the industrial vehicle 12 and
   corresponding computer environment described with reference to FIGS. 1 and 2 can
   incorporate any of the features and structures as set out in U.S. Pat. No. 8,060,400 to
   Wellman, entitled "Fleet Management System", the disclosure of which is herein
   incorporated by reference in its entirety.
30
                                        Communication device
           Referring to FIG. 3A, according to aspects of the present disclosure, the
   communication device 38 may be implemented as an information linking device provided
   on an industrial vehicle (such as an industrial vehicle 12 of FIG. 1).      The illustrative
35 communication device 38 comprises the necessary circuitry to implement wireless
   communication, data and information processing, and wired communication to components

   of the industrial vehicle. As a few illustrative examples, the communication device 38 has a
   transceiver 52 for wireless communication. Although a single transceiver 52 is illustrated
   for convenience, in practice, one or more wireless communication technologies may be
   provided. For instance, the communication device 38 may be able to communicate with a
 5 remote server, e.g., server 14 of FIG. 1, via an 802.1.xx across the access points 20 of FIG.
   1. The transceiver 52 may also optionally support other wireless communication, such as
   cellular, Bluetooth, infrared (IR) or any other technology or combination of technologies.
           The communication device 38 also comprises a control module 54, having a
   processor coupled to memory for implementing computer instructions, including the
10 relevant methods (or aspects thereof) as set out and described more fully herein.           For
   instance, the control module 54 can be used to facilitate pairing with a corresponding battery
   monitor 44, using techniques as set out in greater detail herein. Still further, the control
   module can implement processes such as operator log on, pre-use inspection checklists, data
   monitoring and other features, examples of which are described more fully in U.S. Pat. No.
15 8,060,400 to Wellman, already incorporated by reference herein.
           The communication device 38 may further include vehicle power enabling circuitry
   56 to disable the industrial vehicle, partially enable the industrial vehicle for operation, or
   fully enable the industrial vehicle for operation. Still further, the communication device 38
   may include a monitoring input output (I/O) module 58 to communicate via wired
20 connection to devices mounted to or otherwise on the industrial vehicle, such as sensors,
   meters, encoders, switches, etc. (collectively represented by reference numeral 60).       The
   communication device 38 is also connected to a component such as a load 62, as will be
   described in greater detail herein.
           The illustrated communication device 38 is coupled to and/or communicates with
25 other industrial vehicle system components via a suitable industrial vehicle network system
   62, e.g., a vehicle network bus. The industrial vehicle network system 62 is any wired or
   wireless network, bus or other communications capability that allows electronic components
   of the industrial vehicle 12 to communicate with each other. As an example, the industrial
   vehicle network system may comprise a controller area network (CAN) bus, ZigBee,
30 Bluetooth, Local Interconnect Network (LIN), time-triggered data-bus protocol (TTP) or
   other suitable communication strategy. As will be described more fully herein, utilization of
   the industrial vehicle network system enables seamless integration of the components of the
   industrial vehicle communication device 38 into the native electronics including controllers
   of the industrial vehicle 12 and optionally, any electronics peripherals associated with the
35 industrial vehicle 12 that integrate with and can communicate over the network system. For
   instance, as illustrated, the communication device 38 connects with, understands and is

   capable of communication with native vehicle components, such as controllers, modules,
   devices, bus enabled sensors, etc. (collectively referred to by reference 64).
           The communication device 38 can also communicate with a fob 66 (or keypad, card
   reader or any other device for receiving operator log in identification.       Still further, the
 5 communication device 38 can include a display and/or other features (not shown) to provide
   desired processing capability.
           According to various aspects of the present disclosure, when a battery 40 is installed
   in the industrial vehicle 12, a plug 70 is used to connect a battery cable 72 to a vehicle
   power cable 74. In an illustrative implementation, when the battery cable 72 is plugged into
10 the vehicle power cable 74 via the plug 70, the communication device 38 is powered up.
   The processor in the control module 54 boots up, and the communication device 38 can
   begin to perform desired processing, independent of the industrial vehicle being started or
   otherwise energized for normal operation. For instance, as illustrated, the communication
   device 38 can use the vehicle power enabling circuitry 56 to selectively enable power to one
15 or more vehicle components, e.g., based upon authenticated operator login or other logic.
                                          Battery Monitor
           The battery monitor 44 communicates with the communication device 38, the
   information server 14 or both. More particularly, the battery monitor 44 communicates with
20 the communication device 38 using wireless technology, e.g., Bluetooth.              The battery
   monitor 44 is (optionally permanently and physically) attached to the battery 40 and
   includes a processor, memory coupled to the processor, a transceiver, and other electrical
   structures to implement battery monitoring.      Particularly, the battery monitor 44 samples
   characteristics of the battery 40 measured by the included sensors 76. Characteristics of the
25 battery may comprise current (drawn from the battery or supplied to the battery during use,
   such as in regenerative braking, etc.), voltage, resistance, power, temperature (ambient or
   within the battery), fluid level, impedance, dynamic/transient loading, battery chemistry or
   any other measurable parameter of interest in monitoring of a battery, e.g., while connected
   to an industrial vehicle.
30         For instance, the illustrated battery monitor 44 interfaces with various sensors 76,
   such as a current sensor, one or more temperature sensors, a water level sensor, voltage
   sensor, impedance sensor, etc.      The results can be stored in the memory of the battery
   monitor 44 itself, or the samples can be communicated to the communication device 38 for
   processing or storage.      The communication device 38 can subsequently forward any
35 information received from the battery monitor 44 to the information server 14, etc.

   Moreover, the communication device 38 can send summarized, compressed, or otherwise
   manipulated battery information to a remote server, e.g., server 14 in FIG. 1.
           As used in the specification and claims, a "battery monitor" includes a monitor that
   monitors at least one parameter, operating condition, etc., of an energy storage device that is
 5 used to deliver power to a device such as an industrial vehicle.            In many practical
   applications, the energy storage device is a battery. However, the energy storage device
   may alternatively comprise a fuel cell or other suitable device, such as a battery in
   combination with a supercap, etc.
10                                        Battery Charger
           Referring to FIG. 3B, the communication device 38 may also be provided on, or
   otherwise associated with a device such as a battery charger 80. In a manner analogous to
   that described above with reference to FIG. 3A, the communication device 38 of the battery
   charger 80 comprises a transceiver 82 for wireless communication.            For instance, the
15 communication device 38 may be able to communicate with a remote server, e.g., server 14
   of FIG. 1, via an 802.11.xx across the access the network of FIG. 1. The transceiver 82 may
   also optionally support other wireless communication, such as cellular, Bluetooth, infrared
   (IR) or any other technology or combination of technologies.
           The communication device 38 also comprises a control module 84, having a
20 processor coupled to memory for implementing computer instructions, including the
   relevant methods (or aspects thereof) as set out and described more fully herein.          For
   instance, the control module 84 can be used to facilitate pairing with a corresponding battery
   monitor 44, using techniques as set out in greater detail herein.
           Still further, the communication device 38 includes a monitoring input output (I/O)
25 module 86 to communicate via wired connection to a component such as a load 62. In this
   manner, the load 62 is analogous to the load 62 described with reference to FIG. 3A. The
   communication device 38 further includes battery charging circuitry to recharge a battery
   coupled to the battery charger 80.
           According to various aspects of the present disclosure, when a battery 40 is
30 connected to the battery recharger 80, a plug 70 is used to connect the battery cable 72 to the
   battery charger power cable 94.
           The battery monitor 44 communicates with the communication device 38, the
   information server 14 or both. More particularly, the battery monitor 44 communicates with
   the communication device 38 using wireless technology, e.g., Bluetooth. This allows, for
35 instance, the battery monitor 44 to communicate battery charging parameters to the battery
   charger 80. Also, the battery charger 80 can communicate data to the battery monitor 44,

   e.g., data regarding charging operations, etc. In this regard, the battery monitor 44 can pair
   with a battery charger 80 during battery charging operations. Details about the charging
   operation can be transferred to the battery monitor 44, or the battery charger 80 can
   communicate the details of the charge event directly to a server, e.g., where the battery
 5 charger is communicatively coupled to a server (such as the industrial vehicle application
   server 14 described with reference to FIG. 1) via a network. In illustrative implementations,
   the battery charger 80 communicates information to the battery monitor 44, and the battery
   monitor 44 subsequently forwards that collected information to the communication device
   38 on an industrial vehicle 12.       This may occur when the corresponding battery 40 is
10 disconnected from the battery charger 80 and is reconnected to a corresponding industrial
   vehicle 12.     The battery monitor 44 may also be capable of forwarding that collected
   information to a server, such as the industrial vehicle application server 14 described with
   reference to FIG. 1. As such, information can be automatically passed between the battery
   charger 80, the battery monitor 44, a server 14, the communication device 38 on a
15 corresponding industrial vehicle 12 to which the corresponding battery is installed, or
   combinations thereof. Thus, any of the above devices can further forward such collected
   information to a server, e.g., server computer 14 of FIG. 1.
                      Pairing the Battery Monitor to the Communication Device
20          Referring to FIG. 4, a method 100 is provided, for uniquely pairing a battery monitor
   to a communication device, e.g., on an industrial vehicle having an energy storage device,
   e.g., a battery. As such, the method 100 is suitable for pairing the battery monitor 44 to the
   communication device 38 (e.g., on the industrial vehicle 12 of FIGS. 1, 2, 3A). The method
   100 is also suited for pairing a battery monitor 44 to a communication device 38 on a battery
25 charger (e.g., battery charger 80 of FIG. 3B).
            The method 100 comprises detecting, by the battery monitor, an encoded message at
   102. The encoded message is detected by sensing changes in a characteristic of the energy
   storage device (e.g., battery) that occur responsive to the communication device transmitting
   the encoded message to a component.
30          Consider the example of FIG. 3A where the communication device 38 is provided
   with an industrial vehicle 12. As illustrated in FIG. 3A, the battery monitor 44 includes a
   sensor 76 to monitor the battery 40, such as a current sensor that allows the battery monitor
   44 to sense the current flowing into or out of the battery 40.           In this example, the
   communication device 38 may transmit the encoded message to a component (by way of
35 example, load 62 in FIG. 3A) on the industrial vehicle 12. In this regard, the load can be
   any device that causes current to flow to or from the battery 40.           In the exemplary

   implementation, as best seen in FIG. 3A, the communication device 38 is wired to the load
   62. Moreover, in the above exemplary implementation, the component, e.g., load 62, is
   external to, independent from, not associated with, and otherwise unrelated to the battery
   monitor 44. That is, the load does not form an integral component of the battery monitoring
 5 system. However, the energy device is capable of supplying power in response to the
   communication device 38 communicating to the load 62.
           Notably, the industrial vehicle battery 40 provides the current drawn by components
   of the industrial vehicle 12 during use of the vehicle. Accordingly, the communication
   device 38 will draw power from the battery 40 to communicate the encoded message across
10 the load 62. For instance, as the battery 40 provides current to the communication device 38
   to communicate the encoded message to the load 62, the sensor 76, e.g., a current sensing
   donut, shunt, etc. of the battery monitor 44, detects the current draw on the battery 40. The
   processor of the battery monitor 44 reads the encoded message from the detected
   fluctuations in current draw corresponding to/responsive to the encoded message. That is,
15 the battery monitor 44 detects the changes in current from the battery 40 as power is drawn
   from the battery 40 to drive the load 62 responsive to the encoded message. As such, the
   battery monitor 44 can detect the encoded message itself.
           Referring back to FIG. 4, the method also comprises converting at 104, the encoded
   message into a discovery parameter. For instance, the battery monitor 44 may detect spikes
20 in the battery current drawn from the battery, where the spikes occur in a pattern
   corresponding to the value of the encoded message being driven. Data from the detected
   spikes may be loaded into an array or other structure so as to be converted (e.g., by using
   hexadecimal conversion) into a discovery parameter.
           There are a number of ways to implement the discovery parameter. For instance, the
25 discovery parameter may comprise a discovery name that is broadcast as part of the pairing
   operation. As another example, the discovery parameter may comprise a substitute MAC
   address. For instance, in Bluetooth pairing, a device in discoverable mode may broadcast
   both the discovery name and a MAC address. As such, the communication device 38 may
   encode a substitute MAC address that the battery monitor 44 can use to replace the MAC
30 address that is broadcast as part of the pairing operation. As still a further example, the
   discovery parameter may comprise a security code such as a passkey. The passkey is an
   optional verification that is performed at the time of pairing.      According to still further
   aspects of the present disclosure, the encoded message may encode more than one aspect
   into the discovery parameter. For example, the encoded message may include a discovery
35 name, a substitute MAC address, a passkey, other attribute, or any combination thereof.

            The method still further comprises setting up at 106, a paired wireless connection
   between the communication device on the industrial vehicle and the battery monitor using
   the discovery parameter. Examples of pairing are further described below with reference to
   FIGS. 5 and 6.
 5          The method still further comprises using at 108, the paired wireless connection
   thereafter, to wirelessly communicate information between the battery monitor and the
   communication device.
            In illustrative implementations, an event is utilized to set the communication device
   38 and the battery monitor 44 into a "discovery mode" which causes the communication
10 device 38 and the battery monitor 44 to pair. For instance, the method 100 may further
   comprise detecting, by the battery monitor, a triggering event. The triggering event is any
   event that causes the battery monitor and communication device to attempt to pair. The
   triggering event may be caused by conditions such as the communication device booting up
   and wanting to pair with the battery monitor, detecting a connection of the battery to the
15 industrial vehicle, loss of the wireless connection, a predetermined time interval, etc. In an
   illustrative implementation, upon detecting the triggering event, the battery monitor begins,
   e.g., waits, polls for or otherwise listens for, the encoded message.
            As a non-limiting illustration of a triggering event, prior to communicating the
   encoded message at 102, the method 100 may comprise detecting that a power cable has
20 been connected between a battery and the industrial vehicle. For instance, a battery 40 may
   be removed from an industrial vehicle 12 for a number of reasons, e.g., to recharge,
   repurpose to a different vehicle, etc. When the battery 40 is installed/re-installed on the
   industrial vehicle 12, the power is typically connected by plugging the battery 40 into a
   power cable, harness, connector or other configuration, e.g., as schematically represented by
25 connector 70 and cables 72, 74.
            When power is provided/restored to the industrial vehicle 12, the communication
   device 38 will boot up. Moreover, the battery monitor 44 will be already booted up and
   operational since it is provided on the battery 40 and can draw power from the battery
   regardless of whether the battery is installed in an industrial vehicle. As such, despite the
30 fact that the industrial vehicle itself has not been started up, both the battery monitor 44 and
   the communication device 38 are fully operational.            As such, the booting up of the
   communication device 38 could trigger an attempt to pair a wireless connection between the
   battery monitor 44 and the communication device 38.
            This approach may be advantageous in that the industrial vehicle 12 is not likely
35 started up for normal operation. As such, it may be the case that only the communication
   device 38 and the battery monitor 44 are drawing power from the industrial vehicle battery

   40, thus making detection of the encoded message more reliable. For instance, the amount
   of noise in the battery system will be minimal.        Of course, the communication of the
   encoded message may occur at other times, including times when the industrial vehicle is
   operational and/or being operated.
 5         In order for the battery monitor 44 to pair with the communication device 38, the
   encoded message is converted into a discovery parameter. This may comprise mapping the
   encoded message to a new value, performing a manipulation (e.g., binary to hex
   conversion), calculation, transformation or other data processing to the encoded message.
   Alternatively, the encoded message could be converted into the discovery parameter without
10 any data manipulation.      That is, the value of the encoded representation could be the
   discovery parameter itself. Moreover, as noted above, the encoded message may be mapped
   to a discovery name, substitute MAC address, passkey, or combinations thereof.
           Additional details and examples of pairing the battery monitor 44 to the
   communication device 38 are described further below with regard to FIGS. 5 and 6, which
15 described method of pairing the battery monitor 44 to the communication device 38 from
   the perspective of the battery monitor (FIG. 5) and from the communication device (FIG. 6).
                               Pairing Actions of the Battery Monitor
           Referring to FIG. 5, a method 200 of pairing a battery monitor to a communication
20 device on an industrial vehicle is illustrated.   The method 200 is implemented from the
   perspective of the battery monitor.      For instance, in an illustrative implementation, the
   actions of the method 200 are performed by the battery monitor 44, e.g., responsive to an
   attempt to pair with the communication device 30.
           The method comprises optionally detecting at 202, a triggering event.            While
25 optional, the detection of a triggering event may be useful to define a period/time/interval in
   which pairing is attempted.      In an exemplary implementation, the method may further
   comprise mounting the battery monitor physically on the battery and connecting a sensor of
   the battery monitor so as to monitor current communicated through the power cable. As
   noted in the example above, since the battery monitor is coupled to the battery, it is powered
30 up as long as the battery has a charge. Also, when the battery is plugged into the industrial
   vehicle, the communication device may wake up. As such, as with the example described
   with reference to FIG. 4, the waking up of the communication device can serve as a trigger
   to make an attempt to pair the battery monitor to the communication device. That is, the
   battery monitor can begin to wait, listen for, poll for or otherwise attempt to identify the
35 encoded message.      Thus, the pairing can occur before the vehicle is started for normal
   operation. Alternatively, another trigger may be utilized.

           The method 200 also comprises detecting at 204, an encoded message by sensing
   changes in a characteristic of the battery that occur responsive to the communication device
   transmitting the encoded message to a component of the industrial vehicle. For instance, as
   in the examples described above, the communication device 38 can transmit the encoded
 5 message to the load 62, which is external to the battery monitor 44.
           The method further comprises converting at 206, the encoded message into a
   discovery parameter, and setting up at 208 a paired wireless connection with the
   communication device on the industrial vehicle using the discovery parameter. The method
   200 still further comprises using at 210, the paired wireless connection thereafter, to
10 wirelessly communicate information between the battery monitor and the communication
   device.
           According to illustrative aspects of the present disclosure, the battery management
   module and the communication device may communicate wirelessly using Bluetooth. In
   order for pairing in Bluetooth to take place, the Bluetooth pairing protocol must be
is followed. In an exemplary implementation, the discovery parameter is used to set up a
   paired wireless connection with the communication device on the industrial vehicle by
   implementing a discoverable mode.        Here, the battery monitor wirelessly transmits the
   discovery parameter as a broadcast name.          The communication device recognizes the
   discovery name that it placed into the encoded message and issues a pairing request. Thus
20 the pairing request is from the communication device to the battery monitor.
           Accordingly, the communication device indirectly feeds the Bluetooth device of the
   battery monitor at least one pairing parameter to broadcast, a passkey to verify against, or
   both. The communication device knows which parameter(s) it encoded into the encoded
   message, which was communicated to the external load, and is thus able to negotiate pairing
25 with the battery monitor 44.
           As an example, assume that the discovery parameter is a discovery name. During
   Bluetooth pairing and discovery, instead of the battery monitor broadcasting a name
   programmed by the manufacture, the battery monitor broadcasts the unique name identified
   by the communication device. Since the communication device provided the name to the
30 battery monitor, the communication device can pick out the correct Bluetooth device to pair
   with, even in situations where there are multiple candidates in the vicinity of the industrial
   vehicle that are identified during discovery.
           As another example, during Bluetooth discoverable mode, a device attempting to
   pair may broadcast not only a discovery name, but also a MAC address.                    The
35 communication device may have provided a substitute MAC address in the encoded
   message. Accordingly, the Bluetooth device replaces its normally broadcast MAC address

   with the substitute MAC address provided by the communication device. In this example,
   the communication device detects one or more Bluetooth devices in discoverable mode.
   The communication device builds a list of available Bluetooth devices, and then scans the
   discovery name and MAC address in the list to try to find a MAC address that matches the
 5 substitute MAC address that it communicated in the encoded message.
           Thus, the battery monitor substitutes its MAC address with a substitute MAC
   address received from the communication device. Since the communication device knows
   the substitute MAC address, it can pick out the corresponding battery monitor despite
   multiple battery monitors broadcasting discovery         requests in the vicinity of the
10 communication device.
           As still yet a further example, the communication device may encode a passkey in
   the encoded message. During an attempt to pair, the communication device may see one or
   more battery monitors attempting to pair. For instance, assume that the communication
   device 38 sees four battery monitors, broadcasting the discovery names BATI, BAT2,
15 BAT3 and BAT4, respectively.       The communication device does not immediately know
   which battery monitor is installed on the battery that is powering the corresponding
   industrial vehicle. As such, the communication device picks BATI and attempts to pair.
   When BATI is selected, the communication device and the battery monitor that broadcast
   BATI exchange passkeys. If a security value of the communication device matches the
20 passkey received by the battery module associated with the discovery name BAT1, then
   pairing is implemented. If a security value of the communication device does not match the
   passkey of the battery monitor, pairing is unsuccessful. As such, the communication device
   tries BAT2. The above process continues until the communication device finds a battery
   monitor that has a passkey that matches the security value of the communication device.
25         Yet further, a battery monitor may receive both a discovery name and a passkey, a
   substitute MAC address and a passkey, or both a discovery name and a substitute MAC
   address. In these instances, the communication device may be able to pick out the correct
   battery monitor based upon the broadcast information alone.
           As an alternative to the above, and keeping with the example that the discovery
30 parameter corresponds to a discovery name, the communication device can broadcast its
   name for pairing. In this exemplary configuration, it is the communication device (not the
   battery monitor) that broadcasts a discovery name.         Thus, the discoverable mode is
   implemented by the battery monitor searching names that are wirelessly broadcast for a
   match to the discovery parameter, which has been transmitted by the communication device
35 on the industrial vehicle to the battery monitor. In this regard, the method may comprise
   issuing a pairing request from the battery monitor to the communication device. Thus, the

   pairing procedure works in either direction based upon the unique discovery parameter
   communicated by the communication device to the battery monitor. The difference lying in
   which device broadcasts and which device sends the pairing request.
            Moreover, if the battery monitor and the communication device wirelessly pair using
 5 Bluetooth, other processes and procedures native to Bluetooth may be implemented. For
   instance, the battery monitor and the communication device can negotiate a passkey to
   authenticate the communication device to the battery monitor, etc.
            The battery monitor can store information related to the pairing with the
   communication device.       Moreover, pairing between the communication device and the
10 battery monitor can persist until the battery cable is disconnected from the industrial vehicle
   independent of whether the industrial vehicle is powered on for normal operation.
                            Pairing Actions of the Communication Device
            Referring to FIG. 6, a method 300 of pairing a battery monitor to a communication
15 device on a materials handling vehicle is provided. The method 300 is implemented from
   the   perspective   of the    communication     device.     For instance,  in an    illustrative
   implementation, the actions of the method 300 are performed by the communication device
   30, e.g., responsive to an attempt to pair with the battery monitor 44.
            Analogous to the method 200 of FIG. 5, the method 300 comprises optionally
20 detecting at 302, a triggering event. While optional, the detection of a triggering event may
   be useful to define a period/time/interval in which pairing is attempted. For instance, the
   method 300 may detect that a power cable has been connected between a battery and the
   industrial vehicle.
            The method may also comprise converting at 304, a unique identification into the
25 encoded message. For instance, the communication device sends to the battery monitor, a
   message     that identifies at least a discovery      parameter that is also known to the
   communication device. To avoid confusion in pairing, the discovery parameter should be a
   unique identification known to the communication device.          For instance, the discovery
   parameter should be unique, at least to the broadcast area within which the industrial vehicle
30 (and hence, the communication device 38 and the battery monitor 44) operate.                 An
   exemplary way of generating a unique discovery parameter is for the communication device
   to convert its MAC address to the encoded message.          So as not to be confused with the
   example above with reference to FIG. 5, the MAC address of the communication device
   may serve as a unique discovery name, as a substitute MAC address of the battery monitor
35 for purposes of discoverable mode broadcasting by the battery monitor, or both. The unique

   identifier may be associated with the discovery name, substitute MAC address, passkey
   (e.g., a security code) or combinations thereof.
            As a few other examples, the communication device may obtain the unique
   identification from a remote server computer, or otherwise acquire the unique identifier. In
 5 this regard, the remote server may serve the unique discovery parameters to an entire fleet of
   industrial vehicles with their corresponding communication device/battery monitor.         By
   controlling all of the discovery parameters, the server can ensure that each discovery
   parameter is unique, despite an entire fleet of industrial vehicles being operated in close
   proximity.
10          The method 300 also comprises transmitting at 306, the encoded message to a
   component of the industrial vehicle that is external to the battery monitor. The encoded
   message is transmitted so as to be detected by the battery monitor sensing changes in a
   characteristic of the battery responsive to the encoded message, where the encoded message
   corresponds to a unique discovery parameter. For instance, as described in greater detail
15 herein, the communication device can drive a load with the encoded message, as explained
   more fully herein.
            The method further comprises setting up at 308, a paired wireless connection with
   the battery monitor on the industrial vehicle using the discovery parameter, where the
   pairing is based upon the encoded message communicated from the communication device
20 to the component.
            Also, the method comprises using at 310, the paired wireless connection thereafter,
   to wirelessly communicate information between the battery monitor and the communication
   device.
            For instance, as described in greater detail above, illustrative implementations may
25 comprise booting up the communication device in response to power being connected to the
   industrial vehicle by the battery, and transmitting the encoded message before the industrial
   vehicle is powered up for normal operation.
            Moreover, as noted above with reference to FIG. 5, where Bluetooth is utilized, a
   paired wireless connection can be set up with the battery monitor on the industrial vehicle
30 using the discovery parameter. As an example, the communication device may implement a
   discoverable mode by wirelessly transmitting the discovery parameter as a broadcast name
   and receiving a pairing request from the battery monitor. Alternatively, the communication
   device may implement a discoverable mode by searching names that are wirelessly
   broadcast for a match to the known discovery parameter, which has been previously
35 transmitted to the battery monitor. If the discovery parameter is located, the communication
   device issues a pairing request to the battery monitor.

                Referring to FIG. 7, a schematic of an exemplary computer system having
   computer readable program code for executing aspects described herein with regard to the
   preceding FIGURES.          The computer system can be in the server computer 14, the
   information linking device 38, the battery monitor 44, combinations thereof, etc.
 5              The computer system 700 includes one or more microprocessors 710 that are
   connected to memory 720 via a system bus 730. A bridge 740 connects the system bus 730
   to an 1/0 Bus 750 that links peripheral devices to the microprocessor(s) 710. Peripherals
   may include storage 760, such as a hard drive, removable media storage 770, e.g., floppy,
   flash, CD and/or DVD drive, I/O device(s) 780 such as a keyboard, mouse, etc. and a
10 network adapter 790. The memory 720, storage 760, removable media insertable into the
   removable media storage 770 or combinations thereof, implement computer-readable
   hardware that stores machine-executable program code for implementing the methods,
   configurations, interfaces and other aspects set out and described herein.
                Still further, the exemplary computer system may be implemented as an
15 apparatus for pairing a communication device to a battery monitor, which may comprise a
   processor (e.g., microprocessor 710) coupled to a memory (e.g., memory 720, storage 760,
   removable media insertable into the removable media storage 770 or combinations thereof),
   wherein the processor is programmed to pair a communication device to a battery monitor
   by executing program code to perform one or more of the methods set out herein.
20              The present invention may be a system, a method, and/or a computer program
   product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium
   (or media) having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor
   to carry out aspects of the present invention.
                The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain
25 and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device, e.g., the system described
   with reference to FIG. 7. Thus, a computer readable storage medium, as used herein, is not
   to be construed as being transitory signals per se, such as radio waves or other freely
   propagating electromagnetic waves through a transmission media.
                Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to
30 respective computing/processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an
   external computer or external storage device via a network, for example, the Internet, a local
   area network, a wide area network and/or a wireless network.
                Aspects of the present disclosure are described herein with reference to flowchart
   illustrations and/or block diagrams. Each block of the flowchart illustrations and/or block
35 diagrams, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and/or block diagrams,
   can be implemented         by computer program instructions. These computer program

   instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer, special purpose
   computer, or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine, such that
   the instructions, which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable
   instruction execution apparatus, create a mechanism for implementing the functions/acts
 5 specified in the flowchart and/or block diagram block or blocks.           In some alternative
   implementations, the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the
   figures. For example, two blocks shown in succession may, in fact, be executed
   substantially concurrently, or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order,
   depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block
10 diagrams and/or flowchart illustration, and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams
   and/or flowchart illustration, can be implemented by special purpose hardware-based
   systems that perform the specified functions or acts, or combinations of special purpose
   hardware and computer instructions.
               These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable
15 medium that when executed can direct a computer, other programmable data processing
   apparatus, or other devices to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions
   when stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including
   instructions which when executed, cause a computer to implement the function/act specified
   in the flowchart and/or block diagram block or blocks.
20             The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular aspects
   only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein, the singular forms
    a,   "an" and "the" are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context
   clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms "comprises" and/or
   "comprising," when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features,
25 integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the presence or
   addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components,
   and/or groups thereof.
               The corresponding structures, material s, acts, and equivalents of any means or
   step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any disclosed
30 structure, material, or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed
   elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been
   presented for purposes of illustration and description, but is not intended to be exhaustive or
   limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be
   apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of
35 the disclosure. The aspects of the disclosure herein were chosen and described in order to
   best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application, and to enable

   others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure with various modifications as
   are suited to the particular use contemplated.
               Having thus described the disclosure of the present application in detail and by
   reference to embodiments thereof, it will be apparent that modifications and variations are
 5 possible without departing from the scope of the disclosure defined in the appended claims.
                It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred to herein, such reference
   does not constitute an admission that such prior art forms a part of the common general
   knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
                In the claims that follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
10 except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used
   in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude
   the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
15

                                               CLAIMS
   1. A monitoring system for industrial vehicles, comprising:
           a storage device monitor comprising:
 5                 a wireless transceiver;
                   a sensor capable of sensing an energy storage device characteristic; and
                   a controller coupled to the wireless transceiver and the sensor;
           a communication device mountable on an industrial vehicle, the communication
   device comprising a wireless transceiver; and
10        a load that is electrically connected to the communication device, wherein the load is
   external to and independent from the storage device monitor;
          wherein:
                   the communication device is programmed to transmit an encoded message to
          the load;
15                 the controller of the storage device monitor is programmed to:
                   detect, using the sensor, the encoded message by sensing changes in the
           energy storage device characteristic that occur responsive to the communication
           device transmitting the encoded message to the load;
                   convert the encoded message into a discovery parameter; and
20                 pair with the communication device across a wireless network based upon
          the discovery parameter; and
                   the communication device and the storage device monitor wirelessly
           communicate information between each other using the paired wireless connection.
25 2. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein:
          the discovery parameter includes a broadcast name; and
          the controller of the storage device monitor is programmed to pair with the
   communication device by being programmed to:
                           broadcast, via the wireless transceiver of the storage device monitor,
30                 the broadcast name to the wireless transceiver of the communications device;
                           receive, in response to broadcasting the broadcast name, a pairing
                   request from the wireless transceiver of the communications device; and
                           pair with the communication device.
35 3. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein:
          the discovery parameter includes a substitute media access control (MAC) address;

   and
           the controller of the storage device monitor is programmed to pair with the
   communication device by being programmed to:
                           broadcast, via the wireless transceiver of the storage device monitor,
 5                 the substitute MAC address to the wireless transceiver of the
                   communications device;
                           receive, in response to broadcasting the substitute MAC address, a
                   pairing request from the wireless transceiver of the communications device;
                   and
10                         pair with the communication device.
   4. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein:
           the discovery parameter includes a passkey; and
           the controller of the storage device monitor is programmed to pair with the
15 communication device by being programmed to:
                           broadcast, via the wireless storage device monitor transceiver, a
                   discovery name to the communications device transceiver;
                           receive, in response to broadcasting the discovery name, a pairing
                   request including a security value from the wireless communications device
20                 transceiver; and
                           pair with the communication device if the security value matches the
                   passkey.
   5. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the controller of the storage device monitor is
25 further programmed to:
           enter a discovery mode when detecting a triggering event; and
           listen for the encoded message until the encoded message is detected.
   6. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the energy storage device is a battery.
30
   7. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the energy storage device is a fuel cell.
   8. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the controller of the storage device monitor is
   programmed to convert the encoded message into a discovery parameter by being
35 programmed to process the encoded message to generate the discovery parameter.

   9. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the controller of the storage device monitor is
   programmed to convert the encoded message into a discovery parameter by being
   programmed to use the encoded message as the discovery parameter without any data
   manipulation.
 5
   10. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein:
           the sensor is a current sensor coupled to the energy storage device; and
           the controller of the storage device monitor is programmed to detect the encoded
   message by being programmed to detect current drawn by the energy storage device
10 responsive to the communication device transmitting the encoded message to the load.
   11. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the sensor is select one of:
           a voltage sensor;
           a resistance sensor;
15         an impedance sensor;
           a power sensor;
           a temperature sensor;
           a fluid-level sensor; and
           a chemical sensor.
20
   12. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein:
           the communication device further includes power enabling circuitry; and
           the controller of the storage device monitor is programmed to pair with the
   communication device by being programmed to pair with the communication device before
25 the power enabling circuitry enables the industrial vehicle for normal operation.
   13. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein:
           the wireless transceiver of the storage device monitor is a Bluetooth wireless
   transceiver; and
30         the wireless transceiver of the communication device is a Bluetooth wireless
   transceiver.
   14. A monitoring system comprising:
           a storage device monitor that is powered by an energy storage device to which the
35 storage device monitor is attached, the storage device monitor comprising:
                    a wireless transceiver;

                  a sensor capable of sensing an energy storage device characteristic; and
                  a controller coupled to the wireless transceiver and the sensor;
          a communication device mounted on a charger, the communication device
   comprising a wireless transceiver; and
 5        a load that is electrically connected to the communication device, wherein the load is
   external to and independent from the storage device monitor;
          wherein:
                  the communication device is programmed to transmit an encoded message to
          the load;
10                the controller of the storage device monitor is programmed to:
                           detect, using the sensor, the encoded message by sensing changes in
                  the energy storage device characteristic that occur responsive to the
                  communication device transmitting the encoded message to the load;
                           convert the encoded message into a discovery parameter; and
15                         pair with the communication device across a wireless network based
                  upon the discovery parameter.
   15. The monitoring system of claim 14, wherein:
          the discovery parameter includes a broadcast name; and
20        the controller of the storage device monitor is programmed to pair with the
   communication device by being programmed to:
                           broadcast, via the wireless transceiver of the storage device monitor,
                  the broadcast name to the communications device transceiver;
                           receive, in response to broadcasting the broadcast name, a pairing
25                request from the wireless transceiver of the communications device; and
                           pair with the communication device.
   16. The monitoring system of claim 14, wherein:
          the discovery parameter includes a substitute media access control (MAC) address;
30 and
          the controller of the storage device monitor is programmed to pair with the
   communication device by being programmed to:
                           broadcast, via the wireless transceiver of the storage device monitor,
                  the substitute MAC address to the wireless transceiver of the
35                communications device;
                           receive, in response to broadcasting the substitute MAC address, a

                   pairing request from the wireless transceiver of the communications device;
                   and
                           pair with the communication device.
 5 17. The monitoring system of claim 14, wherein:
           the discovery parameter includes a passkey; and
           the controller of the storage device monitor is programmed to pair with the
   communication device by being programmed to:
                           broadcast, via the wireless transceiver of the storage device monitor,
10                 a discovery name to the communications device transceiver;
                           receive, in response to broadcasting the discovery name, a pairing
                   request including a security value from the wireless transceiver of the
                   communications device; and
                           pair with the communication device if the security value matches the
15                 passkey.
   18. The monitoring system of claim 14, wherein the controller of the storage device monitor
   is programmed to convert the encoded message into a discovery parameter by being
   programmed to process the encoded message to generate the discovery parameter.
20
   19. The monitoring system of claim 14, wherein the controller of the storage device monitor
   is programmed to convert the encoded message into a discovery parameter by being
   programmed to use the encoded message as the discovery parameter without any data
   manipulation.
25
   20. The monitoring system of claim 14, wherein:
           the sensor is a current sensor coupled to the energy storage device; and
           the controller of the storage device monitor is programmed to detect the encoded
   message by being programmed to detect current drawn by the energy storage device
30 responsive to the communication device transmitting the encoded message to the load.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
