If: \ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-2l/
                                                 It2017
                                                           - 32
                                                        ABSTRACT
A method for generating an infographic resume, the method being performed using one or
more electronic processing devices, the method including: obtaining user answers to
 questions guided by a decision tree; determining a plurality of recommended resume
 elements based on the user answers; obtaining user data for at least some of the
recommended resume elements; determining a layout for presenting the at least some of the
recommended resume elements; and generating an infographic resume based on the user data
 and the layout.
Fig. 1

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                            INFOGRAPHIC RESUME GENERATION
Background of the Invention
 [0001] This invention relates to methods and apparatus for generating an infographic resume.
Description of the Prior Art
 [0002] A resume, also referred to as a curriculum vitae (CV), is a document used to present
 an individual' s career background and skills,such as when the individual is seeking new
 employment. Resumes have traditionally been prepared in predominantly text only formats,
with information typically being separated into different sections and often being organised
 chronologically to assist the reader.
 [0003] More recently, as multimedia content has become prevalent on the Internet,
 infographic resumes including combinations of graphical and textual elements having gained
popularity, especially in creative and media industries. Online infographic resume generation
 services have been proposed, however these generally provide a "one-size-fits-all" solution
which can result in infographic resumes having the same elements in a generic layout,
without regard to factors such as the particular individual' scarcer stage, level of experience
 or motivations for preparing the resume.
 [0004] The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
 from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
 acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or
 information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge
 in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
 Summary of the Present Invention
 [0005] In a broad form an aspect of the present invention seeks to provide a method for
 generating an infographic resume, the method being performed using one or more electronic
processing devices, the method including: obtaining user answers to questions guided by a
 decision tree; determining a plurality of recommended resume elements based on the user
 answers; obtaining user data for at least some of the recommended resume elements;

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-2l/
                                                It2017
                                                       -2
 determining a layout for presenting the at least some of the recommended resume elements;
 and generating an infographic resume based on the user data and the layout.
 [0006] In one embodiment the questions include career questions, the method including:
 determining a career mode based on user answers to at least some of the career questions; and
 determining the plurality of recommended resume elements based at least in part on the
 determined career mode.
 [0007] In one embodiment the career mode is determined as one of: a major change mode; a
job change mode; an internal change mode; a branding mode; and a consultancy mode.
 [0008] In one embodiment each career mode is associated with a number of resume elements
that are selectively included in the plurality of recommended resume elements for the career
mode.
 [0009] In one embodiment the questions further include option questions, the method
 including determining one or more of the recommended resume elements based at least in
part on user answers to at least some of the option questions.
 [0010] In one embodiment each option question is associated with a resume element that is
 selectively included in the plurality of recommended resume elements based on the user
 answer to the option question.
 [0011] In one embodiment each of the recommended resume elements are classified as one
 of a primary resume element and an optional resume element based on the user answers, the
method including obtaining user data for at least the primary resume elements.
 [0012] In one embodiment the method includes determining the layout based on a number of
 optional resume elements for which user data is obtained.
 [0013] In one embodiment the questions are guided by the decision tree by determining a
next question based on a user answer obtained for a previous question.
 [0014] In one embodiment at least some of the questions are defined so that the user answer
 is selected as one of yes and no.

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-2l/
                                                It2017
                                                       -3
 [0015] In one embodiment the method includes generating a data entry form for the
recommended resume elements to allow the user to enter the user data using the data entry
 form.
 [0016] In one embodiment the method includes obtaining at least some of the user data from
 at least one of: manual data entry by the user; one or more documents uploaded by the user;
 and one or more social media profiles of the user.
 [0017] In one embodiment the method includes: determining a theme; and generating the
 infographic resume in accordance with the theme.
 [0018] In one embodiment determining the theme includes: presenting a plurality of theme
 options on a display; and obtaining a user selection of one of the theme options.
 [0019] In one embodiment determining the layout includes: determining a plurality of layout
 options suitable for presenting the at least some of the recommended resume elements;
presenting indications of at least some of the layout options on a display; and obtaining a user
 selection of one of the presented layout options.
 [0020] In one embodiment presenting the at least some of the layout options on a display
 includes: generating sample infographic resumes for the at least some of the layout options;
 and presenting the sample infographic resumes on the display.
 [0021] In one embodiment the method includes the user interacting with a client device
 coupled to the one or more electronic processing devices via a communications network.
 [0022] In one embodiment the method includes obtaining the user answers and at least some
 of the user data at least in part using the client device.
 [0023] In another broad form an aspect of the present invention seeks to provide an apparatus
 for generating an infographic resume, the apparatus including one or more electronic
processing devices configured to: obtain user answers to questions guided by a decision tree;
 determine a plurality of recommended resume elements based on the user answers; obtain
user data for at least some of the recommended resume elements; determine a layout for

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                        -4
presenting the at least some of the recommended resume elements; and generate an
 infographic resume based on the user data and the layout.
 [0024] In one embodiment the apparatus is configured to perform a method as described
 above.
 [0025] It will be appreciated that the broad forms of the invention and their respective
 features can be used in conjunction, interchangeably and/or independently, and reference to
 separate broad forms is not intended to be limiting.
 Brief Description of the Drawings
 [0026] An example of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
 accompanying drawings, in which:
 [0027] Figure 1 is a flow chart of an example of a method for generating an infographic
resume;
 [0028] Figure 2 is a schematic diagram of an example of a distributed computer architecture;
 [0029] Figure 3 is a schematic diagram of an example of a server processing system;
 [0030] Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of an example of a client processing system;
 [0031] Figures 5A to 5C are a flow chart of an example a method for a user causing an
 infographic resume to be generated;
 [0032] Figure 6 is an example of a decision tree for guiding a user to provide answers to
 career questions; and,
 [0033] Figure 7 is an example of infographic content generated for a resume element for use
 in an infographic resume.
 Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
 [0034] An example of a method for generating an infographic resume will now be described
 with reference to Figure 1. The method includes performing the following steps in one or

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-2l/
                                                It2017
                                                       -5
more electronic processing devices, suitable examples of which will be described in further
 detail below. In one example the method may be performed using a server, which may be
 coupled to a client device via a communications network. A user may interact with the client
 device via a graphical user interface provided by a web interface presented in an Internet
browser or by application software executed by the client device. The client device may in
turn communicate with the server processing system to provide functionalities of the method
 as outlined below.
 [0035] The method commences at step 100 by obtaining user answers to questions guided by
 a decision tree. For example, the user answers may be obtained by having a user interact with
 a client device to select or input answers to questions presented on a display of the client
 device via a graphical user interface. The questions may be selected so that the user answers
may be indicative of different user specific factors such as the user' s career stage,level of
 experience or motivations for preparing the infographic resume. The questions may be
 guided by the decision tree so that subsequent questions depend on one or more of the
previous user answers, so that the specific questions asked of the user will be tailored to the
user, thereby avoiding the need for the user to answer questions that are likely to be irrelevant
to the user.
 [0036] In step 110, the method involves determining a plurality of recommended resume
 elements based on the user answers. The recommended resume elements may be determined
 as a subset of a number of available resume elements. It will be appreciated that different
resume elements may be more or less relevant to different users depending on the user
 specific factors such as career stage, level of experience or motivations for preparing the
 infographic resume as mentioned above. Accordingly, different combinations of resume
 elements may be determined based on different combinations of user answers that may be
 obtained. In some examples, the user answers may be used to determine a career mode of the
user, whereby each career mode may be associated with a particular combination of
recommended resume elements.
 [0037] In any event, once the recommended resume elements have been determined, user
 data for at least some of the recommended resume elements may be obtained at step 120. For
 instance, this may involve obtaining the user data by having the user interact with the client

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-2l/
                                                It2017
                                                       -6
 device to manually enter the user data or upload documents including from which the user
 data may be extracted. A data entry form may be generated for the recommended resume
 elements for allowing the user to provide the required user data for only those elements
needed for the infographic resume. In some implementations, the user may be given the
 option to identify a social network profile from which relevant user data may be
 automatically retrieved.
 [0038] The subsequent step 130 involves determining a layout for presenting the at least
 some of the recommended resume elements. It will be appreciated that, since the particular
 combination of resume elements may depend on the user answers and the user data provided,
 a single standard layout will not suffice and therefore the layout should be chosen to suit the
 combination of resume elements determined for the user. Determining the layout may include
 selecting from a range of standard layout templates including different numbers of element
 regions into which resume elements may be placed. Some resume elements may require
 element regions of different sizes to accommodate particular infographic content associated
 with the respective resume elements. Accordingly, different layouts may have different
 combinations of element regions of different sizes based on typical combinations of
 recommended resume elements that may be encountered, such as for particular career modes.
 [0039] In some cases, a number of layout options may be available for accommodating the
particular combination of resume elements determined based on the user answers, and
 therefore the layout may be determined at least in part based on a user selection of one of the
 available layout options. For instance, a user selection may be obtained from the user in
 response to the user being presented with sample infographic resumes generated in
 accordance with some of the available layout options.
 [0040] Finally, at step 140, an infographic resume may be generated based on the user data
 and the layout. This will typically involve generating infographic content for each of the
 recommended resume elements for which user data was obtained, and arranging the
 infographic content in accordance with the element regions of the template. In some
 embodiments, the infographic resume may be generated subject to further user customisation,
 such as through the user selection of a theme which may set a colour palette and/or fonts that
 may be used in the generation of the infographic content. In some optional implementations,

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-2l/
                                                It2017
                                                       -7
the user may also be provided with the option to fine tune the infographic resume before it is
 finalised, such as by rearranging different resume elements of the same size within the
 element regions.
 [0041] In any event, it will be appreciated that the above described method will facilitate the
 generation of an infographic resume that may be better suited to the needs of the user. For
 example, the infographic resume may only include resume elements that are of particular
relevance to a particular career mode or experience level of the user that may be determined
based on the user answers. This may in turn lead to the generation of infographic resumes
that have particular combinations of resume elements that are tailored to the individual user' s
 motivations for preparing the resume.
 [0042] In some embodiments, the questions may include career questions, which may be
 specifically adapted to allow a career mode of the user to be determined. Accordingly, the
 method may include determining a career mode based on user answers to at least some of the
 career questions, and subsequently determining the plurality of recommended resume
 elements based at least in part on the determined career mode. The career questions may
 include specific questions to determine the user' s career plans, which can help to ensure hat
 the selection of resume elements is appropriate for the likely uses of the infographic resume.
 [0043] In one example implementation, the career mode may be determined as one of the
 following: a major change mode; a job change mode; an internal change mode; a branding
 mode; and a consultancy mode. The major change mode may be determined for a user that is
planning to make a major career change. The job change mode may be determined for a user
 seeking a job change in the same field. The internal change mode may be determined for a
user seeking a position change within their company. The branding mode may be determined
 for a user seeking to position themselves for future (unspecified) opportunities. Finally, the
 consultancy mode may be determined for a user establishing a consultancy or seeking to
 attract clients. Although the five career modes discussed above have been selected as
providing good coverage of the potential career plans which may be motivating users to have
 a new infographic resume generated, it should be appreciated that these are provided as an
 example only, and other implementations may use different career modes.

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-2l/
                                                It2017
                                                       -8
 [0044] In any event, each career mode may be associated with a number of resume elements
that are selectively included in the plurality of recommended resume elements for that career
mode. It will be appreciated that different career modes may include different resume
 elements to emphasise different areas of skills or experience to suit the career mode and
 likely uses of the infographic resume. For example, it may be desirable to include resume
 elements corresponding to a user' s work history if it is determined that he major change
 mode or the job change mode is applicable, but the same resume elements may not be needed
 if it is determined that the consultancy mode is applicable. Further examples of potential
 resume elements that may be associated with the different career modes will be described in
 due course.
 [0045] In some examples, the questions may further include option questions, which may be
used to determine whether particular resume elements may be important to highlight in the
user' s infographic resume.Accordingly, the method may include determining one or more of
 the recommended resume elements based at least in part on user answers to at least some of
 the option questions. For instance, resume elements relating to international experience or
 language skills may be optionally included based on the user answers to questions regarding
 the user' s international experience or language skils. In one example, each option question
may be associated with a resume element that is selectively included in the plurality of
recommended resume elements based on the user answer to the option question. Further
 examples of potential resume elements that may be associated with option questions will also
be described in due course.
 [0046] In some embodiments, each of the recommended resume elements may be classified
 as one of a primary resume element and an optional resume element based on the user
 answers, and the method may include obtaining user data for at least the primary resume
 elements. In other words, it may be compulsory for the user to provide user data for the
primary resume elements, whereas user data for optional resume elements may be selectively
provided by the user. The method may thus include determining the layout based on the
number of optional resume elements for which user data is obtained.
 [0047] The questions may be guided by the decision tree by determining a next question
based on a user answer obtained for a previous question. Accordingly, the particular series of

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-2l/
                                                It2017
                                                       -9
 questions asked of the user may be different for each user depending on the specific user
 answers that are obtained. This approach may avoid the need for the user to answer questions
that are clearly irrelevant to the user as may be revealed by the initial questions. It will
therefore be appreciated that the selection of the specific questions and their ordering within
the decision tree will have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the questions. Ideally,
the questions in the decision tree will be structured to allow the recommended resume
 elements to be determined based on a minimum number of questions, to thereby streamline
the infographic resume generation process from the user perspective whilst allowing optimal
tailoring of the resume elements included to suit the user.
 [0048] In some embodiments, at least some of the questions may be defined so that the user
 answer is selected as one of yes and no. Providing binary yes/no questions in this manner will
 reduce the burden on the user during the generation process yet can still enable important
 tailoring to be performed through appropriate design of the decision tree.
 [0049] As mentioned previously, the method may include generating a data entry form for
 the recommended resume elements to allow the user to enter the user data using the data
 entry form. It will be appreciated that such a data entry form may be displayed on the
 graphical user interface of the client device operated by the user. The data entry form utilise a
 range of different data input techniques in any combination to suit the particular
 recommended resume elements determined for the user. For instance, the data entry form
 may include a combination of text entry fields, drop down menus, checkboxes, or the like.
 [0050] In some examples, the data entry form may be highly structured to ensure that
 specific user data is obtained for the recommended resume element, as required for the
 subsequent generation of corresponding infographic content in the infographic resume. This
 can help to ensure that particular resume elements will only be included if the user is able to
provide a suitable amount of user data for that resume element.
 [0051] The user data may be obtained from a variety of sources. For instance, user data may
be obtained from any one of the following: manual data entry by the user; one or more
 documents uploaded by the user; and one or more social media profiles of the user. In the
 latter case, some embodiments of the method may include obtaining details of a user' s saial

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-2l/
                                                It2017
                                                       - 10
media account and accessing specific user data from the social media profile associated with
that account to populate at lease some of the user data without requiring any manual data
 entry or documents to be uploaded by the user. However it should be appreciated that this is
not essential.
 [0052] Some embodiments may allow further user customisation of the infographic resume
 that is generated using the method. For example, the method may include determining a
 theme and generating the infographic resume in accordance with the theme. The theme may
be determined at any point in the infographic resume generation process, and the user may be
 given an opportunity to change the theme of the generated infographic resume before it is
 finalised.
 [0053] In one example, determining the theme may include presenting a plurality of theme
 options on a display of the client device, and obtaining a user selection of one of the theme
 options. These theme options may be presented in a simple form such as applied to a simple
 sample of a resume element including sample infographic content such as text and images, to
 avoid the processing burden of applying the theme to specific user data, although in some
 cases the infographic resume may be dynamically generated to allow different themes to be
 tested against the user data and layout of the infographic resume.
 [0054] It will be appreciated that the step of determining the layout will require a suitable
 layout to be selected to fit all of the recommended resume elements into a predetermined
 area, such as a single page, yet in an arrangement that is not crowded or confusing to the
 reader. A range of different layouts may be developed to suit different combinations of
 recommended resume elements. In some cases, multiple suitable layout options may exist.
 [0055] Accordingly, in some examples, determining the layout may include determining a
plurality of layout options suitable for presenting the at least some of the recommended
resume elements, presenting indications of at least some of the layout options on a display of
the client device and obtaining a user selection of one of the presented layout options. The
 indications of the layout options may involve a simplified representation of each layout
 option, for instance by denoting the outlines of different element regions and an indication of
the recommended resume element to be placed in each element region.

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                        - 11
 [0056] However, in some examples, presenting at least some of the layout options on a
 display may include generating sample infographic resumes for at least some of the layout
 options and presenting the sample infographic resumes on the display. This will allow the
user to have a better understanding of the final layout under each layout option, but at the
 expense of having to generate multiple sample infographic resumes that will ultimately not
be selected by the user.
 [0057] As mentioned above, the method may include the user interacting with a client device
that is coupled to a server via a communications network. Accordingly, the user answers and
 at least some of the user data may be obtained at least in part using the client device. The
 server will receive these user inputs and may process these to allow the infographic resume to
be generated.
 [0058] In view of the above, it will be appreciated that an apparatus for generating an
 infographic resume in accordance with the described method may including one or more
 electronic processing devices, such as a server as mentioned above, configured to: obtain user
 answers to questions guided by a decision tree; determine a plurality of recommended resume
 elements based on the user answers; obtain user data for at least some of the recommended
 resume elements; determine a layout for presenting at least some of the recommended resume
 elements; and generate an infographic resume based on the user data and the layout. The
 apparatus may further include the client device coupled to the server via a communications
 network as mentioned above.
 [0059] In one example, the process is performed by one or more processing systems
 operating as part of a distributed architecture, an example of which will now be described
with reference to Figure 2.
 [0060] In this example, the arrangement includes a number of processing system 201, 203
 interconnected via one or more communications networks, such as the Internet 202, and/or a
number of local area networks (LANs) 204. It will be appreciated that the configuration of
the networks 202, 204 are for the purpose of example only, and in practice the processing
 systems 201, 203 can communicate via any appropriate mechanism, such as via wired or
wireless connections, including, but not limited to mobile networks, private networks, such as

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                        - 12
 an 802.11 networks, the Internet, LANs, WANs, or the like, as well as via direct or point-to
point connections, such as Bluetooth, or the like.
 [0061] The nature of the processing systems 201, 203 and their functionality will vary
 depending on their particular requirements. In one particular example, the processing systems
201, 203 represent servers and clients, although this is not essential and is used primarily for
the purpose of illustration.
 [0062] An example of a suitable processing system 201 is shown in Figure 3. In this
 example, the processing system 201 includes an electronic processing device, such as at least
 one microprocessor 300, a memory 301, an optional input/output device 302, such as a
keyboard and/or display, and an external interface 303, interconnected via a bus 304 as
 shown. In this example the external interface 303 can be utilised for connecting the
processing system 201 to peripheral devices, such as the communications networks 202, 204,
 databases 211, other storage devices, or the like. Although a single external interface 303 is
 shown, this is for the purpose of example only, and in practice multiple interfaces using
various methods (e.g. Ethernet, serial, USB, wireless or the like) may be provided.
 [0063] In use, the microprocessor 300 executes instructions in the form of applications
 software stored in the memory 301 to perform required processes, such as communicating
with other processing systems 201, 203. Thus, actions performed by a processing system 201
 are performed by the processor 300 in accordance with instructions stored as applications
 software in the memory 301 and/or input commands received via the I/O device 302, or
 commands received from other processing systems 201, 203. The applications software may
 include one or more software modules, and may be executed in a suitable execution
 environment, such as an operating system environment, or the like.
 [0064] Accordingly, it will be appreciated that the processing systems 201 may be formed
 from any suitable processing system, such as a suitably programmed computer system, PC,
web server, network server, or the like. In one particular example, the processing system 201
 is a standard processing system such as a 32-bit or 64-bit Intel Architecture based processing
 system, which executes software applications stored on non-volatile (e.g., hard disk) storage,
 although this is not essential. However, it will also be understood that the processing systems

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                                    - 13
201 could be or could include any electronic processing device such as a microprocessor,
microchip                 processor, logic              gate configuration,   firmware optionally   associated   with
 implementing logic such as an FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array), or any other
 electronic device, system or arrangement.
 [0065] As shown in Figure 4, in one example, the processing systems 203 include an
 electronic processing device, such as at least one microprocessor 400, a memory 401, an
 input/output device 402, such as a keyboard and/or display, and an external interface 403,
 interconnected via a bus 404 as shown. In this example the external interface 403 can be
utilised for connecting the processing system 203 to peripheral devices, such as the
 communications networks 202, 204, databases, other storage devices, or the like. Although a
 single external interface 403 is shown, this is for the purpose of example only, and in practice
multiple interfaces using various methods (e.g. Ethernet, serial, USB, wireless or the like)
may be provided.
 [0066] In use, the microprocessor 400 executes instructions in the form of applications
 software stored in the memory 401 to perform required processes, for example to allow
 communication with other processing systems 201, 203. Thus, actions performed by a
processing system 203 are performed by the processor 401 in accordance with instructions
 stored as applications software in the memory 402 and/or input commands received from a
user via the I/O device 403. The applications software may include one or more software
modules, and may be executed in a suitable execution environment, such as an operating
 system environment, or the like.
 [0067] Accordingly, it will be appreciated that the processing systems 203 may be formed
 from any suitable processing system, such as a suitably programmed PC, Internet terminal,
 lap-top, hand-held PC, smart phone, PDA, tablet, or the like. Thus, in one example, the
processing system 203 is a standard processing system such as a 32-bit or 64-bit Intel
Architecture based processing system, which executes software applications stored on non
volatile (e.g., hard disk) storage, although this is not essential. However, it will also be
understood that the processing systems 203 can be any electronic processing device such as a
microprocessor,                     microchip processor,          logic  gate    configuration, firmware   optionally

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                        - 14
 associated with implementing logic such as an FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array), or
 any other electronic device, system or arrangement.
 [0068] It will also be noted that whilst the processing systems 201, 203 are shown as single
 entities, it will be appreciated that this is not essential, and instead one or more of the
processing systems 201, 203 can be distributed over geographically separate locations, for
 example by using processing systems provided as part of a cloud based environment.
 [0069] Examples of the above described methods will now be described in further detail. For
 the purpose of these examples, it is assumed that the process is administered by one or more
 of the processing systems 201, acting as servers. Interaction by a user requesting the
 generation of an infographic resume is via a processing system 203, in the form of a client
 device.
 [0070] For the purpose of this example, it is assumed that the server hosts webpages or
 interacts with application software that can be used to allow the user to interact with the
 server via the client device. The server allows users to register with the system, and provide
user answers and user data as required to allow the infographic resume to be tailored to the
user, generated and provided to the user for locally storage or any other use such as sharing a
 centrally stored version to other individuals.
 [0071] It will also be assumed that the user interacts with server via a GUI (Graphical User
Interface), or the like, presented on the client device. In one example, this interaction is
 achieved via a browser application that displays webpages hosted by the event server.
However, in an alternative example, this interaction may be achieved via dedicated
 application server, which may be specifically developed to enable a more user-friendly
 interface to a user requesting an infographic resume using a smart phone, tablet or the like.
 [0072] However, it will be appreciated that the above described configuration assumed for
the purpose of the following examples is not essential, and numerous other configurations
may be used. It will also be appreciated that the partitioning of functionality between the
processing systems 201, 203 may vary, depending on the particular implementation.

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                        - 15
 [0073] An illustrative example of a practical method for a user causing an infographic
 resume to be generated will now be described with reference to Figures 5A to 5C.
 [0074] In this example, at step 500 the user accesses the infographic resume generation
 service via a web interface displayed in a browser application on the client device. The web
 interface may display the user with different options that may be selected depending on the
particular service of interest to the user. In this case, it is assumed that the user has already
 completed a registration process to become a registered user of the service and is ready to
 request the generation of an infographic resume using the service. Accordingly, at step 501
 the user selects an option to generate an infographic resume.
 [0075] In this example, the user may be presented with a first career question at step 502,
 which will be the initial question of the decision tree that is used to guide the user to provide
user answers to the questions.
 [0076] Each question may be displayed separately on the user device to allow the user to
 concentrate on a single question at a time, and suitable GUI elements may be provided to
 allow the user to input a user answer. In this case, it is assumed that each career question is
 formulated to require a simple user answer of "Yes" or "No", such that each node of the
 decision tree may branch to one of two other nodes depending on the user answer. However,
 it will be appreciated that career questions may be formulated that provide more options for
the user answers, such as multiple choice answers, which can be embodied in a more
 sophisticated decision tree.
 [0077] To facilitate improved understanding, an example of a decision tree for guiding the
user to provide answers to career questions is shown in Figure 6 and will be referred to
 throughout the discussion of the method. In this case, the decision tree includes seven career
 questions 601, 602, 603, 604, 605, 606, 607 which act as decision nodes of the decision tree
 with connections to subsequent decision nodes determined based on the user answer to the
 career question of a previous decision node. Each branch of the decision tree terminates at
 one of five career modes 611, 612, 613, 614, 615 which act as end nodes of the decision tree.
 The career modes in this example are "Major change mode" 611, "Job change mode" 612,
 "Internal change mode" 613, "Branding mode" 614 and "Consultancy mode" 615 as

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                        - 16
 discussed previously. In this case, the decision tree has been designed to guide the user to
provide user answers to career questions such that the career mode of relevance to the user
may be determined in only two to four user answers to career questions.
 [0078] At step 503 of the method the user inputs a user answer to the first career question of
the decision tree, such as by clicking on a desired option in the GUI. In this example, the use
 of the decision tree is illustrated as an iterative process, whereby after the user inputs a user
 answer to a career question at step 503, the method involves checking whether a career mode
has been determined based on the last user answer at step 504. If a career mode is not
 determined at step 504, then the next career question will be determined from the decision
tree based on the last user answer at step 505. Then, the next career question is presented to
the user at step 506, and the iterative process starting at step 503 can be repeated until a
 career mode is actually determined at step 504. Ideally the decision tree will be optimised to
 allow the career mode to be determined with a minimal number of questions to reduce the
burden on the user.
 [0079] To illustrate this iterative process, examples of sequences of career questions and user
 answers leading to different career modes in the decision tree of Figure 6 will now be
 discussed.
 [0080] In this example, the first career question 601 of the decision tree states "Are you
 actively looking for a new job outside your company?" The user may choose to answer
 "Yes" or "No" depending on the user' s current job arch status. If the user selects "Yes" to
the first career question 601, no career mode can be determined yet, so the next career
 question 602 is determined and presented to the user. The next career question 602 states "Is
your next career move substantially different from what you have done in the past?", and if
the user answer to the career question 602 is "Yes", then the career mode of "Major change
mode" 611 will be determined. However, if the user answer to the career question 602 is
 "No", then the career mode of "Job change mode" 612 will be determined.
 [0081] In an alternative scenario in which the user answer to the first career question 601 is
 "No", no career mode can be determined yet, so the career question 603 is determined and
presented to the user instead. This states "Are you actively seeking a change in role within

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                        - 17
your company?", and if the user answer to the career question 603 is "Yes" then the decision
tree will guide the user to another career question 604. The career question 604 states "Is
 your next career move substantially different from what you have done in the past?" as per
the previously discussed career question 602, but is on a different branch of the decision tree
 and will lead to different career modes being determined depending on the user answer. In
particular, if the user answer to the career question 604 is "Yes", then the career mode of
 "Major change mode" 611 will be determined, but if the user answer to the career question
 604 is "No", then the career mode of "Internal change mode" 613 will be determined.
 [0082] In the event the user answer to the previously discussed career question 603 is "No",
then the decision tree will guide the user to another career question 605, which states "Are
you currently employed and would you like to position yourself for future opportunities?" If
 the user answer to the career question 605 is "Yes", then the decision tree will guide the user
 to yet another career question 606. This career question 606 also states "Is your next career
move substantially different from what you have done in the past?" but is once again on a
 different branch of the decision tree and will lead to different career modes being determined
 depending on the user answer. In the case where the user answer to the career question 606 is
 "Yes", then the career mode of "Major change mode" 611 will be determined, but if the user
 answer to the career question 606 is "No", then the career mode of "Branding mode" 614 will
be determined.
 [0083] However, in the scenario in which the user answer to the career question 605 is "No",
 then the next career question 607 will be determined according to the decision tree. The
 career question 607 states "Are you: (1) an independent contractor; (2) currently running
 your own business; or (3) wanting to start your own business?", and if the answer to the
 career question 607 is "Yes", then the career mode of "Consultancy mode" 615 will be
 determined, but if the user answer to the career question 607 is "No", then the career mode of
 "Branding mode" 614 will be determined.
 [0084] Accordingly, one of the five available career modes may be determined for the user
based on the user answers obtained to a specific sequence of two to four career questions
 according to the different branches of the decision tree.

If: \ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                 I/12017
                                                         - 18
 [0085] However, it should be appreciated that the particular decision tree depicted in Figure
 6 is provided for the purpose of explanation only, and a range of alternative decision trees
 with different question and answer scenarios may be used.
 [0086] Once a career mode is determined at step 504 of the method, the next step 507
 involves determining primary elements in accordance with the determined career mode. As
 mentioned previously, the recommended elements may include a combination of primary
 resume elements and optional resume elements selected from the available resume elements.
 In this example, each career mode may be associated with a particular selection of resume
 elements that are classified as the primary resume elements. The primary resume elements
 determined for a particular career mode are considered to be the mandatory resume elements
 for inclusion in an infographic resume for a user to whom that career mode is deemed
 applicable.
 [0087] For the purpose of this example, it will be assumed that the following 15 resume
 elements are available for use in an infographic resume:
            1) Contact Details;
          2) Career Summary;
           3) Work History;
          4) Work History + Highlights;
           5) Functional Experience Summary;
           6) Education;
           7) Achievements;
           8) Skills / competencies;
           9) International Experience;
            10) Drivers;
            11) Industry Experience;
            12) Language;
            13) Leadership Style;
            14) Voluntary Experience; and
            15) Company Experience.

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                                 - 19
 [0088] It should be noted that the above resume elements are listed for the sake of
 exemplifying the method and are not intended to be limiting. Any number of different resume
 elements may be used in suitable embodiments of the method.
 [0089] Each resume element will have a particular purpose that may or may not justify its
 inclusion in an infographic resume for a particular infographic resume. Typically each
 resume element will be associated with specific user data and many will include specific
 infographic content such as formatted text, charts or images derived from the user data.
 Details of some examples of the above mentioned resume elements are set out in Table 1
below.
                                            Table 1: Details of example resume elements
#               Resume                             Purpose            Infographic content         User data
                Element
 1          Contact                     Provide contact details     Text with different size - Name
            Details                                                 fonts                    - Email
                                                                                             - Phone
                                                                                             - Website
                                                                                             - LinkedIn
2           Career                      Short overview of           Formatted text           - Free text
            Summary                     person' s career.                                    (500 characters)
 3          Work                        Timeline of person' s       Timeline with text       - Position
            History                     working history and                                  - Company
                                        main jobs.                                           - Year start
                                                                                             - Year finish
                                                                                             - Free text
                                                                                             (140 characters)
 9          International               Shows work done in          Image of world/region    Option A
            Experience                  different continents        with circles showing     - Company
                                                                    data                     - Position
                                                                                             - Free Text
                                                                                             (20 characters)
                                                                                             Option B
                                                                                             - Company
                                                                                             - Function
 [0090] As can be seen in the examples of Table 1, the resume elements may be associated
with a number of different user data types, and in the case of the "International Experience"
resume element, there may be different associated options regarding the particular user data
types.

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                        - 20
 [0091] It should be appreciated that an infographic resume will be generated with a subset of
the available resume elements. The particular number of recommended resume elements that
may be fit into an infographic resume will depend on factors such as the total available size
 of the infographic resume and the sizes of the infographic content associated with the
 different resume elements. In some examples, it may be desirable to limit the number or
recommended elements to about half the total available number. Accordingly, when using 15
 available resume elements, the ideal number of recommended elements may be around 7-8,
 although infographic resumes with fewer or additional resume elements may still be
 generated, such as for 5-10 recommended resume elements out of a total of 15 available
resume elements.
 [0092] Of the recommended resume elements, some or all of these may be classified as
primary resume elements, and in this example the primary resume elements will be
 determined completely based on the determined career mode. For example, for the "Major
 change mode", the primary resume elements associated with this career mode may be
 "Contact Details", "Career Summary", "Work History + Highlights", "Achievements" and
 "Skills / Competencies". It should be noted that this is not necessarily the final determination
 of recommended resume elements, since other resume elements may be included in the
 recommended resume elements in response to later steps of the method. Further examples of
 resume elements associated with different career modes will be discussed in due course.
 [0093] In any event, following the determination of the primary resume elements at step 507,
 the next step of the method will involve presenting a first option question to the user at step
 508. As discussed above, in contrast to the career questions which are collectively used to
 determine a career mode, each option question may be associated with a resume element that
 is selectively included in the plurality of recommended resume elements based on the user
 answer to the option question. Despite the differences between career questions and option
 questions, the option questions may still be guided by a decision tree in some embodiments,
 with the end nodes representing a final combination of optional resume elements for the user.
 [0094] In any event, the option questions and user answers thereto may be managed in an
 iterative process similar to that used for the career questions as discussed above. At step 509
 of the method the user inputs a user answer to the first option question. The iterative process

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                        - 21
 involves checking whether the previous question was the final option question at step 510. If
the final option question hasn' t yet been presented to the user and ansvered, then the next
 option question will be determined based on the last user answer at step 511. Then, the next
 option question is presented to the user at step 512, and the iterative process starting at step
 509 can be repeated until it is determined that the final option question has been answered at
 step 510.
 [0095] Once all of the option questions have been answered, the next step 513 involves
 determining optional resume elements for inclusion in the recommended resume elements,
based on the user answers to the option questions. For example, each option question may be
 associated with a particular resume element that will only be included in the recommended
resume elements if the user answer is "Yes".
 [0096] For instance, an option question of "Do you have international experience" may be
 associated with the "International Experience" resume element. An option question of "Are
 your educational qualifications important to highlight?" may be associated with the
 "Education" resume element. An option question of "Do you have substantial experience in 3
 or more occupations or jobs?" may be associated with the "Functional Experience" resume
 element. An option question of "Do you have substantial experience in 3 or more industries?"
may be associated with the "Industry Experience" resume element. An option question of
 "Are you proficient in multiple languages and is it important for your work?" may be
 associated with the "Language" resume element. As a final example, an option question of
 "Are you in a primarily leadership (as opposed to technical) role?" may be associated with
the "Leadership Style" resume element.
 [0097] In some examples, the particular sequence of option questions presented to the user
may be selected depending on the previously determined career mode. Accordingly, a user
 for whom "Job change mode" is determined as the most appropriate career mode may only
be presented with the option questions associated with "International Experience" and
 "Education", whereas a user for whom "Internal change mode" is determined as the most
 appropriate career mode may be presented with the option questions associated with "Work
History + Highlights", "Functional Experience", "Education", and "Leadership Style".

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                                   - 22
 [0098] Although it will be appreciated that the particular combinations of primary resume
 elements and optional resume elements for different career modes may vary depending on the
 implementation of the method, an example of recommend resume elements for the five career
modes discussed in this implementation is set out in Table 2 below.
              Table 2: Example of recommend resume elements for different career modes
                                                        (P = Primary; 0 = Optional).
#                    Resume Element                         Major      Job    Internal Branding Consultancy
                                                            change   change    change    mode      mode
                                                             mode     mode      mode
 1          Contact Details                                    P        P         P       P         P
2           Career Summary                                     P        P         P       P         P
 3          Work History                                       -        -         -
4           Work History + Highlights                          P        P        0        O
 5          Functional Experience                             0         -        0         -        0
 6          Education                                         0         0        0        0         0
 7          Achievements                                       P        P         P                 P
 [0099] It should be understood that Table 2 only shows a subset of the available resume
 elements, but the recommended resume elements may additionally include primary and
 optional resume elements selected from the full set of resume elements discussed above.
 [00100]                      As can be seen in Table 2, the primary resume elements for each career mode
 share some commonalities, such as the resume elements of "Contact Details" and "Career
 Summary", which are always be included in infographic resumes generated under this
 implementation. Other resume elements such as "Work History + Highlights"                              and
 "Achievements" are only included as primary resume elements for same career modes but
not others. Similarly, some resume elements are only included as optional resume elements
 for some career modes but not others. It will be seen that some resume elements, such as
 "Work History + Highlights" may be classified as primary resume elements for some career
modes and as optional resume elements for other career modes.
 [0101] Once the recommended resume elements have been determined in the previous steps,
 a data entry form may be generated for the primary resume elements and the optional
 elements at step 514. As mentioned above, the data entry form may be generated using a
range of different data entry fields which will be generated depending on the specific user

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                        - 23
 data associated with the recommended resume elements. The data entry fields may include
text entry fields, drop-down selection menus, checkboxes or any other suitable means for
 obtaining the required user data. The data entry form may be generated so that the completion
 of data entry fields corresponding to user data required for primary resume elements is
mandatory, but completion of those for optional resume elements may be voluntary.
 [0102] At step 515, the user inputs user data for at least the primary resume elements. In this
 example, it is assumed that the user input is achieved by manual data entry by the user,
 although it should be appreciated that other examples may enable the user to upload
 documents or provide details of a social network profile to allow user data to be retrieved
through other means. The user may elect to not complete one or more of the determined
 optional resume elements if desired.
 [0103] As mentioned above, highly structured data entry forms may be used to obtain the
user data. In some embodiments, the data entry forms will identify the particular user data
 required for each resume element at a high degree of specificity, such as by specifying
 minimum thresholds of information required for a particular resume element. For example, in
 a section of the data entry forms corresponding to a Skills resume element, the user must may
be required to input a minimum of five skills and each skill must be rated at greater than 50%
 for this section to be deemed completed. For the Languages resume element to be deemed
 completed there must be at least three different languages input by the user. For the
Achievements element to be successfully completed there must be three achievements (no
 more or no less) and there must be an explanation of why it is an achievement.
 [0104] If the minimum threshold is not met for a particular resume element, the resume
 element will not be considered to be completed and therefore will not be included in the
 infographic resume generated in subsequent steps. This approach can be contrasted with
 traditional infographic resume generation techniques that leave the user in control of how
 much information is to be input, which can result in infographics being generated using
 incomplete information or infographics being included which would not benefit the user.
 [0105] Step 516 involves determining which resume elements have been completed by the
user inputting user data. It will be appreciated that this will depend on whether the user opted

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                        -24
to complete any of the optional resume elements. In this example, the total number of
 completed resume elements will determine the number of resume elements that are to be
 included in the final infographic resume, and may not be the same as the original
recommended resume elements.
 [0106] At step 517, theme options are presented to the user, and at step 518 the user inputs a
 selection of a desired theme option. As mentioned above, each theme option may involve a
particular colour palette and/or selection of fonts that may be used in the generation of the
 infographic content for inclusion in the infographic resume. Accordingly, the user can select
 a theme based on the user' s preferences on how thefinal infographic resume should look.
 The theme options may be presented in the form of sample resume elements to which the
theme has been applied, so the user can gain a better appreciation of the final outcome to be
 expected. In some examples, the selection of theme options may be restricted depending on
the user' s registration level.It should be noted that the steps relating to the theme may occur
 at any stage in the infographic resume generation process although the order of steps in this
 example allows the selected theme to be reflected in the layout options.
 [0107] In step 519, layout options for presenting the completed resume elements from step
 516 will be determined. This may involve determining suitable layout options for fitting the
 total number of completed resume elements into the available space of the infographic
 resume, such as a single page. Typically, a range of layout options will be predetermined for
 accommodating different numbers of resume elements. These layout options may also be
 specifically designed to accommodate different combinations of resume elements which may
be associated with different size requirements. In some cases, resume elements may be
 available in different size options and therefore different layout options may be provided to
 fit such resume elements into the infographic resume using the different size options.
 [0108] Furthermore, different layout options may be specifically provided for different career
 modes. For instance, for some career modes, the position of certain resume elements may
 need to be in different places in order to highlight their relative importance. In one example,
 if a user' s career mode is determined as "Internalchange mode", the "Skills / Competencies"
resume element may be of higher importance compared to the "Work History + Highlights"
resume element, and thus the "Skills / Competencies" resume element may be positioned

IH:\ek\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                 11l2017
                                                         - 25
more prominently in the layout options for the "Internal change mode". Accordingly, it will
be appreciated that the layout may effectively be determined based on the user answers, from
which the career mode is determined.
 [0109] The layout options may be simply presented as representations of how the infographic
resume is split into different regions for the complete resume elements, although in this
 example, a more sophisticated approach is used, whereby sample infographic resumes are
 generated for at least some of the layout options at step 520. This may or may not use the
user data obtained from the user or the selected theme, depending on the required quality of
the sample infographic resumes and trading off the computational burden associated with
their generation.
 [0110] At step 521, the user inputs a selection of one of the sample infographic resumes,
 such as by pointing to the desired sample infographic resume in the GUI. Then, at step 522
the method involves generating the required infographic content for each completed resume
 element using the user data and the selected theme option, and finally this infographic
 content is integrated together to generate infographic resume. If different size options are
 available for any completed resume elements, then the size option used for generating the
 infographic content will be in accordance with the size of the corresponding region in the
 selected layout option. Thus, the infographic content will be generated in an appropriate size
 for arranging in the user' s desired layout.
 [0111] However, it will be appreciated that other approaches to generating the infographic
resume may be used. For example, the infographic resume may be generated in a single
process whereby the infographic content associated with the completed resume elements is
 generated as the overall infographic resume is being generated.
 [0112] The processes for generating the infographic content associated with each of the
 completed resume elements will depend on the particular resume element and user data to be
 incorporated into the infographic content. For example, the infographic content for a
particular resume element may be generated based on a standard template with graphical
 customisations reflecting the particular user data. An examplary process for generating

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-21
                                                I/12017
                                                        - 26
 infographic content for a Work History resume element as shown in Figure 7 will now be
 described.
 [0113] In order to effectively display the Work History resume element as infographic
 content, it is desirable to showcase a user's work history in a timeline format, but in a
 suitably abbreviated fashion. To allow this, the following steps may be performed to
 determine the display sizing of each job in the timeline. First, a total width of the element
 size is determined. In this case, the width is assumed to be 700 pixels. This width is then pro
rated based on the total number of years the user has worked. This number becomes the
 denominator for use in fractional calculations for determining the display width for each job.
 The numerator is then taken as the number of years of each specific job. For example, if a
user' stotal work history spanned 20 years and the first job was 5 years, then 5/20 *700   =  175
pixels is the total width of that job for depiction in the timeline.
 [0114] This calculation is repeated for each job and the infographic content may be generated
by arranging bars with the calculated widths on a timeline, to thereby represent each job in
 the context of the years worked by the user, as indicated in Figure 7. The Work History
 element may also automatically rearrange the roles into correct historical order for display,
 rather than relying on the user entering them in correct order
 [0115] However, the process may determine if a job is too short for effective display based
 on the total number of years worked and the length of each particular job. In one example,
 the minimum time for a job may be based on a minimum number of pixels that can be
 displayed for one job. An error message may be generated if this occurs, or if the job in
 question is a current role then an arrow icon may be included as shown in Figure 7.
 [0116] In any event, it should be understood that a range of different processes may be used
to generate the infographic contents and the above example is provided for the sake of
 explanation only.
 [0117] The user may optionally be given an opportunity to revise the generated infographic
resume before it is finalised. For instance, the user may be able to select options to choose a
 different theme option or layout option if the user is not satisfied with the appearance of the
 generated infographic resume. In some cases, the user may be allowed to go back and change

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-2l/
                                                It2017
                                                       - 27
 or add new user data, which may of course have a knock on effect requiring the user to repeat
 steps of the method to cause an updated infographic resume to be generated.
 [0118] Once the final infographic resume has been generated, this may be delivered to the
user in an electronic format for storage on the user' s client device or in any other desired
 location, such as a cloud storage service or the like. The infographic resume may additionally
 or alternatively be stored in a database of the server which can allow the user to access the
 infographic resume at a later date. This central database storage can also enable the user to
 share access details for the infographic resume to other individuals that may wish to view the
 infographic resume. In some examples, the final infographic resume may be shared via social
networks or other online services.
 [0119] In any event, it will be appreciated that the above described method for generating an
 infographic resume may provide a user with the ability to obtain an infographic resume that
 is better tailored to the user' s individual requirements and motivations. The user may be
 guided through the customisation process using a straightforward question and answer format
which allows determination of the key information that should be highlighted in the
 infographic resume based on the user' s career goals
 [0120] In particularly advantageous implementations, the user may be guided through a
 series of career questions according to a decision tree that allows a career mode of the user to
be determined. The career mode can in turn be used to determine recommended resume
 elements for inclusion in the infographic resume. Optional resume elements may also be
 included depending on the user' s answers to optionquestions which may also depend on the
 career mode. The user may then provide user data only for a subset of recommended resume
 elements rather than the full set of available resume elements, thereby ensuring the user does
not need to input any data that will not be used in the infographic resume.
 [0121] The resulting infographic resume may provide an information-rich single page
 document that visually highlights important elements of the user' s experience and future
plans. Accordingly, elements of the user' shistory may be combined in a visually appealing
manner to display the user' sfuture capability via infographics that are generated in a simple
user-friendly process.

If: \ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-2l/
                                                 It2017
                                                        -28
 [0122] Throughout this specification and claims which follow, unless the context requires
 otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers or steps but not the
 exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
 [0123] Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that numerous variations and modifications
 will become apparent. All such variations and modifications which become apparent to
persons skilled in the art, should be considered to fall within the spirit and scope that the
 invention broadly appearing before described.

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-2l/
                                                It2017
                                                       - 29
 THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1) A method for generating an infographic resume, the method being performed using one or
         more electronic processing devices, the method including:
          a) obtaining user answers to questions guided by a decision tree;
         b) determining a plurality of recommended resume elements based on the user answers;
          c) obtaining user data for at least some of the recommended resume elements;
          d) determining a layout for presenting the at least some of the recommended resume
                 elements; and
          e) generating an infographic resume based on the user data and the layout.
2) A method according to claim 1, wherein the questions include career questions, the
         method including:
          a) determining a career mode based on user answers to at least some of the career
                 questions; and
         b) determining the plurality of recommended resume elements based at least in part on
                 the determined career mode.
 3) A method according to claim 2, wherein the career mode is determined as one of:
          a) a major change mode;
         b) ajob change mode;
          c) an internal change mode;
          d) a branding mode; and
          e) a consultancy mode.
4) A method according to claim 2 or claim 3, wherein each career mode is associated with a
         number of resume elements that are selectively included in the plurality of recommended
         resume elements for the career mode.
 5) A method according to any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the questions further include
          option questions, the method including determining one or more of the recommended
          resume elements based at least in part on user answers to at least some of the option
          questions.
 6) A method according to claim 5, wherein each option question is associated with a resume
          element that is selectively included in the plurality of recommended resume elements
         based on the user answer to the option question.

IH:\ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-2l/
                                                It2017
                                                       - 30
 7) A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein each of the recommended
         resume elements are classified as one of a primary resume element and an optional
         resume element based on the user answers, the method including obtaining user data for
          at least the primary resume elements.
 8) A method according to claim 7, wherein the method includes determining the layout
         based on a number of optional resume elements for which user data is obtained.
 9) A method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the questions are guided by the
         decision tree by determining a next question based on a user answer obtained for a
         previous question.
 10)A method according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein at least some of the questions
         are defined so that the user answer is selected as one of yes and no.
 11 )A method according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the method includes generating
         a data entry form for the recommended resume elements to allow the user to enter the
         user data using the data entry form.
 12)A method according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the method includes obtaining
         at least some of the user data from at least one of:
          a) manual data entry by the user;
         b) one or more documents uploaded by the user; and
          c) one or more social media profiles of the user.
 13)A method according to any one of claims I to 12, wherein the method includes:
          a) determining a theme; and
         b) generating the infographic resume in accordance with the theme.
 14) A method according to claim 13, wherein determining the theme includes:
          a) presenting a plurality of theme options on a display; and
         b) obtaining a user selection of one of the theme options.
 15) A method according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein determining the layout
          includes:
          a) determining a plurality of layout options suitable for presenting the at least some of
                 the recommended resume elements;
         b) presenting indications of at least some of the layout options on a display; and
          c) obtaining a user selection of one of the presented layout options.

If: \ek\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\16026960 l.docx-2l/
                                                 It2017
                                                        -31
 16)A method according to claim 15, wherein presenting the at least some of the layout
           options on a display includes:
           a) generating sample infographic resumes for the at least some of the layout options; and
          b) presenting the sample infographic resumes on the display.
 17) A method according to any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the method includes the user
           interacting with a client device coupled to the one or more electronic processing devices
          via a communications network.
 18) A method according to claim 17, wherein the method includes obtaining the user answers
           and at least some of the user data at least in part using the client device.
 19)An apparatus for generating an infographic resume, the apparatus including one or more
          electronic processing devices configured to:
           a) obtain user answers to questions guided by a decision tree;
          b) determine a plurality of recommended resume elements based on the user answers;
           c) obtain user data for at least some of the recommended resume elements;
           d) determine a layout for presenting the at least some of the recommended resume
                  elements; and
           e) generate an infographic resume based on the user data and the layout.
 20) An apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the apparatus is configured to perform a
          method according to any one of claims I to 18.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
              $
                    !                 "   "
              $
<removed-apn>
                        !
              $
                        #
              $                               $ ,
                    !                               #   &
                                              $ $
              $
                                              )             &
                            '
                                      (
              $ *                 +
              $
                        #
                                $ %

<removed-date>
                                        $
                            $
              $ %                           $
                    !                           #   &
<removed-apn>
                                            $
              $
                                            )           &
                        -
                                    (
              $                 +
              $
              $ $
                    !
              $ ,
                            $ *

                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
$   $       $   $             $
                    $ %                $ *
        !                 !       #
                                                   ,
                                             $ ,

                                  <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
    ,
                                  ,
        .     &           "
+                             +                 1 2
                  "
                      (
              )                   ,
+       ,                                       7
        .     &           "
                  "           +   ,
                      (                                      *
+                                           .
              )
        , ,
                                  ,
        .     &           "
                                        8
                  "           +
+                     (
              )                   , $
                                        '

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
