                             ABSTRACT
        A method of operating a solar energy plant includes
 5 storing solar energy in a compressed air system of the
   plant by (a) converting solar energy into electrical
   energy which operates a compressor of the compressed air
   system and produces compressed air and/or (b) using solar
   energy as thermal energy that heats compressed air in the
10 compressed air system of the plant.
                                             10394053_1 (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

1/4
    C14N
         C14m

                               - 1
                     STORAGE OF SOLAR ENERGY
                      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5      The present invention relates to storing solar
   energy.
                   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10      The intermittent nature of solar energy is a major
   barrier to widespread use of solar energy.
        There has been considerable research and development
   work in the area of storing solar energy.    Options
15 considered for solar energy storage include chemical
   storage batteries, pumped hydro systems, and thermal
   storage using a heat transfer medium (such as molten
   salt).
20      Chemical storage batteries, while technically able to
   provide storage, are too expensive for large scale use for
   the following reasons.
   1.   The initial capital cost is high per KWh of capacity.
   2.   Lifetime is short, requiring some replacements over a
25 20 year period.
   3.   Depth of discharge is typically in a range of 60-90%,
   requiring oversized battery bank.
   4.   Round trip efficiency has significant losses.
   5.   Exotic materials that are required for chemical
30 storage may be limited and expensive.
   6.   Recycling of heavy/toxic materials is an additional
   cost at the end of life.
   7.   Careful management and/or maintenance of many
   individual cells adds additional cost.
35 8.   Sensitive to over-discharge and over-charge.
                                              10394053_1 (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                               - 2
        Considerable research and development is still
   required on many fronts to produce a chemical storage
   battery which solves all of the above problems.           There are
   also issues with other known solar energy storage options.
 5
        There is a need for an effective option for storing
   solar energy to meet customer demand which does not
   coincide with the time and quantity of incoming solar
   radiation.  The need for an effective solar energy storage
10 option is particularly the case for large scale solar
   energy plants that produce electricity that contributes to
   local, regional or national electricity supply networks.
        The above description and the description of the
15 invention described in International publication
   W02012/009764 in the name of the applicant in later
   sections of the specification are not to be taken as an
   admission of the common general knowledge in Australia or
   elsewhere.
20
                     SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        The present invention is based on a realization of
   the applicant that using (waste or additional) heat from a
25 solar power generation system can be effectively used to
   enhance the efficiency of electrical energy storage in a
   compressed air energy storage system.
        In general terms, the present invention provides a
30 method of operating a solar energy plant that includes
   storing solar energy in a compressed air system of the
   plant. The efficiency of electricity produced from
   compressed air from the compressed air storage system can
   be enhanced to a level which matches or exceeds typical
35 electrochemical storage batteries but at substantially
   lower cost.
                                              10394053_1
                                                       (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                              - 3
        More particularly, although not exclusively, the
   present invention provides a method of operating a solar
   energy plant that includes storing solar energy in a
   compressed air system of the plant by:
 5
   (a)  converting solar energy into electrical energy and
   using at least part of the electrical energy to operate a
   compressor of the compressed air system and produce
   compressed air; and/or
10
   (b)  using solar energy as thermal energy that heats
   compressed air in the compressed air system of the plant.
        The solar energy plant may be any suitable plant for
15 producing electricity from solar energy.
        The solar energy plant may be a large scale solar
   energy plant for producing electricity from solar energy
   for use in local, regional or national electricity supply
20 networks.  The term "large scale solar energy plant" is
   understood herein to mean a plant that receives at least
   600 kW, typically at least 700 kW, of solar energy.
        The compressed air system may include a compressor
25 for compressing air, a reservoir for storing compressed
   air under pressure, and a compressed air-driven electrical
   generator for producing electricity from the energy of the
   compressed air.  With this arrangement, the reservoir can
   store compressed air that is produced using solar energy
30 and the reservoir can supply compressed air to the
   electrical generator to produce electricity as required,
   for example during time periods to meet customer demand
   which do not coincide with the time and quantity of
   incoming solar energy.
35
                                             10394053_1 (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                              - 4
        The method may include recovering stored solar energy
   as electrical energy from the compressed air system as
   required.
 5      The method may include recovering stored solar energy
   as electrical energy from the compressed air system by
   using high pressure compressed air produced by the
   compressor to operate the electrical generator of the
   compressed air system and produce electricity.
10
        The method may include heating air in the compressed
   air system with heat produced and stored by operating the
   compressor.
15      The method may include heating a thermal energy
   transfer medium with thermal energy produced from solar
   energy and heating air in the compressed air system via
   indirect heat exchange relationship with the thermal
   energy transfer medium.
20
        The method may include storing the thermal energy
   transfer medium in a storage unit and heating the thermal
   energy transfer medium by direct exposure to solar energy.
   Typically, the thermal energy transfer medium in the
25 storage unit is a liquid.  By way of example, the thermal
   energy transfer medium may include water, heat transfer
   oil or molten salt.
        The storage unit may be any suitable vessel for
30 holding the thermal energy transfer medium.
        The storage unit may include solid elements such as
   porous ceramic blocks within the unit to improve the heat
   storage capacity within the unit and the heat transfer
35 capacity to the thermal energy transfer medium.
                                             10394053_1 (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                              - 5
        The thermal energy transfer medium may be a coolant
   that forms part of a system, such as a closed system, for
   cooling solar cells of the solar energy plant.          The
   coolant temperature may be in  a range 40 to 250*C.               The
 5 method may include transferring heat from the coolant to
   the thermal energy transfer medium in the storage unit via
   indirect heat exchange relationship.   The method may
   include transferring heat from the coolant to air in the
   compressed air system via indirect heat exchange
10 relationship.  In the case of large scale solar energy
   plants that receive at least 600 kW of solar energy the
   amount of heat transferred to coolant for cooling solar
   cells is substantial, in many instances greater than the
   amount of electricity generated by the cells, and
15 recovering and using effectively the thermal energy from
   the coolant is a significant benefit.
        The solar energy may be used in other ways indirectly
   and directly in the present invention to provide thermal
20 energy in the compressed air system.
        The use of solar energy as thermal energy that is
   transferred to the compressed air system improves the
   electrical energy efficiency of the compressed air system.
25 Conventional compressed air systems typically have low
   electrical energy efficiencies, typically 50-70%.
   Traditionally, fossil fuels have been burnt to add heat to
   compressed air systems in order to increase the output
   power to match the input power.   This adds operational
30 cost and causes pollution.   The present invention makes it
   possible to avoid altogether the use of fossil fuels as a
   source of heat in the compressed air system.
        The use of solar energy as a source of heat makes it
35 possible to increase the recovery of solar energy in a
   solar generation system, such as a central receiver
                                              10394053_1
                                                       (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                               - 6
   photovoltaic cell-based system that converts solar energy
   into electrical energy.
        By way of example, the present invention makes it
 5 possible to use low grade solar energy produced in a solar
   generation system that cannot be used effectively for
   electricity generation or otherwise in the system.                The
   invention provides an opportunity to use the low grade
   heat, unused heat, or low cost heat as a source of heat in
10 a compressed air system to enhance the electrical energy
   efficiency of the compressed air storage system.
        The present invention provides a solar energy plant
   for producing electricity from solar energy that includes
15 a compressed air system for storing solar energy captured
   and converted by the plant.
        The solar energy plant may be any suitable plant for
   producing electricity from solar energy.
20
        The solar energy plant may be a large scale solar
   energy plant for producing electricity from solar energy
   for use in local, regional or national electricity supply
   networks.   The method of electricity generation may
25 include concentrating light to a highly efficient
   photovoltaic receiver which directly produces electricity
   and waste heat which is captured in the coolant for the
   photovoltaic cells.
30      The components of the solar energy plant may be
   mature technology, robust, inexpensive, large scale, well
   understood technically, have a long lifetime, and are made
   of common benign materials.
35      The compressed air system may include a compressor
   for compressing air, a reservoir for storing compressed
   air under pressure, and a compressed air-driven electrical
                                             10394053_1
                                                      (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

   generator for producing electricity from the energy of the
   compressed air.
        The solar energy plant may be adapted to convert
 5 solar energy into electrical energy, and the compressor of
   the compressed air system may be adapted to be powered by
   at least a part of the electrical energy production of the
   plant.
10      The solar energy plant may be adapted to convert at
   least some solar energy into thermal energy and to use the
   thermal energy to heat air in the compressed air system.
        The solar energy plant may include a thermal energy
15 transfer medium for receiving and being heated by solar
   energy and for heating compressed air via indirect heat
   exchange relationship with compressed air.
        The solar energy plant may include a storage unit for
20 the thermal energy transfer medium, and the thermal energy
   transfer medium may be in indirect heat exchange
   relationship with air in the compressed air system.
        The storage unit and the thermal energy transfer
25 medium in the storage unit may be adapted to be heated
   directly by solar energy.
        The storage unit may be any suitable vessel for
   holding the thermal energy transfer medium.
30
        The storage unit may include solid elements such as
   porous ceramic blocks within the unit to improve the heat
   storage capacity within the unit and the heat transfer
   capacity to the thermal energy transfer medium.
35
        The solar energy plant may include a coolant system
   for cooling a solar cell assembly for converting solar
                                              10394053_1
                                                       (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                               - 8
   energy into electrical energy.   In effect, in use, the
   coolant system extracts thermal energy that is produced by
   solar energy impinging on the solar cell assembly and
   thereby maintains the solar cell assembly at optimum
 5 operating temperatures.   A coolant of the coolant system
   may be the thermal energy transfer medium.     The coolant
   system may be in heat exchange relationship with air in
   the compressed air system.   The coolant system may be a
   closed system.
10
         The solar energy plant may be a central receiver
   concentrator photovoltaic plant that includes:
    (a)  a mirror collector for collecting solar energy and
15 selectively directing collected solar energy, and
    (b)  a receiver for receiving solar energy from the mirror
   collector and (i) transferring solar energy for use
   directly or indirectly as solar energy in the compressed
20 air system and/or (ii) converting solar energy into
   electrical energy for use in the compressed air system.
         The term "mirror collector" is understood herein to
   cover any device that has a reflective surface that can
25 collect and re-direct solar energy and includes, by way of
   example, heliostats and Fresnel mirrors.   The term "mirror
   collector" may include arrangements that re-direct and/or
   concentrate solar energy.
30       The central receiver concentrator photovoltaic plant
   may use concentrated sunlight from a field of heliostats
   to activate an array of high efficiency photovoltaic solar
   cells mounted on an appropriately-positioned photovoltaic
    (PV) receiver.  Typically, in known plants of this type,
35 30-35% of the incident light is converted by the solar
   cells into electricity, 10% of the incident light is
   reflected off the cell face and is lost, and the remaining
                                              10394053_1
                                                       (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                                - 9
   55-60% of the incident light is captured as heat in a
   working fluid used to cool the solar cells.          It can be
   appreciated that the amount of heat is substantial in the
   case of large scale solar energy plants that receive at
 5 least 600 kW of solar energy.
          The applicant has realised that the temperature of
   heat extracted at different points in the energy flow in
   the above-described central receiver concentrator
10 photovoltaic plant may be used beneficially in the
   compressed air system.    The applicant has realised that by
   choosing appropriate points in the energy flow in the
   central receiver concentrator photovoltaic plant it is
   possible to extract heat at higher temperatures and
15 thereby increase overall system efficiency.          Extraction of
   heat at a higher temperature improves the use of heat in
   the compressed air system.
          Possible heat extraction points include the following
20 points.
   1.     Heat collected by a coolant used to cool photovoltaic
   cells which are receiving concentrated sunlight
    (temperature range typically 35-90 0 C and possibly up to
   250 0 C).  This energy is captured heat at low temperature
25  (typically less than 250*C)  and has been regarded as being
   of little use unless the solar power plant is close to
   industry with processes which can use this heat.                  The need
   to cool the solar cells means that solar energy is
   captured as heat in the coolant at a relatively low
30 temperature.    The present invention uses the energy which
   gives rise to this low grade heat beneficially in the
   compressed air system.
   2.          Unused parts of the solar spectrum that is not
   captured by photovoltaic cells.     This energy may be
35 separated and redirected via suitable selective reflectors
   or absorbers and optic systems to heat a heat transfer
   medium (temperature range up to 1000 0 C).   One example of a
                                                10394053_1 (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                               - 10
   selective reflector is a spectrum splitter that redirects
   longer wavelength energy to a thermal storage unit and
   allows shorter wavelength energy to pass through the
   splitter and impinge on solar cells.    Examples of optical
 5 systems include optical elements which are spectrally
   selective and have a form by way of example which is
   Cassegranian, Gregorian or Fresnel. Light guide elements
   may also be used.
   3.         Solar energy that is reflected from the cell
10 face.
   4.         Portions of the concentrated solar energy which
   make a greater contribution to the value of the total
   system output by being directed to a thermal receiver
    (temperature range up to 1000 0 C). This energy may be
15 collected by way of example via a separate receiver or a
   thermal element within the PV receiver.
   5.         Additional mirror collectors (such as heliostats
   and dish collectors) for collecting solar energy and
   selectively directing collected solar energy at receivers
20 to achieve an optimal balance of thermal energy and
   electrical energy.
   6.         Secondary mirror collectors (sometimes described
   as  "flux modifiers") that are added to contribute to
   achieving an optimal balance of thermal energy and
25 electrical energy.   Where a receiver has such a         "flux
   modifier" associated with a receiver for receiving solar
   energy from the mirror collector or otherwise incident on
   the secondary mirror collector, the "flux modifier" tends
   to run at high temperature, for example as a consequence
30 of absorbing longer wavelength radiation.     This absorbed
   solar energy is a source of heat.    The "flux modifiers"
   may be formed to increase effective absorption of solar
   energy without depleting solar energy that is available
   for photovoltaic solar cells of the receiver.
35
         The thermal energy collected from items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
   or 6 above may be stored in storage units, for example in
                                               10394053_1
                                                        (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                              - 11
   the form of insulated vessels containing a suitable
   thermal energy transfer medium such as molten salt at
   suitable temperatures, until the optimum time for use.                       By
   way of example, an optimum time may be during periods when
 5 there is no or very low amounts of available solar energy
   for the plant.  The heat may be transferred into an
   appropriate part or parts of the compressed air system.
   Heat produced in the compression part of the compressed
   air system may also be stored in these tanks.        This means
10 that it is possible to supply all of the heat required to
   augment the thermodynamic output of the compressed air
   system such that electrical energy output equals          (or
   exceeds) the electrical energy input required to operate
   the system.  This avoids the use of fossil fuels required
15 in conventional compressed air systems and provides an
   effective "no loss" and pollution-free storage system.                       In
   effect, the energy inefficiencies of the compressed air
   system are compensated for by waste heat from the solar
   plant.
20
        The solar plant of the present invention may include
   a photovoltaic receiver for transferring solar energy for
   use directly or indirectly as solar energy in the
   compressed air system and a thermal receiver for
25 transferring solar energy for use directly or indirectly
   as solar energy in the compressed air system.
        The solar plant of the present invention may include
   any one or more of the following features described in
30 detail in International publication W02012/009764 in the
   name of the applicant (the whole disclosure of which is
   incorporated herein by cross-reference):
    (a) a photovoltaic receiver and a thermal receiver
35 mounted on one receiver tower in spaced-apart relationship
   so that the operation of one receiver does not interfere
   with the operation of the other receiver and vice versa,
                                             10394053_1
                                                      (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                              - 12
   with each receiver having target areas for receiving solar
   energy from the mirror collector,
    (b) a primary receiver in the form of a photovoltaic cell
 5 receiver for receiving solar energy from the mirror
   collector and a secondary receiver in the form of a
   thermal receiver for receiving solar energy reflected or
   re-directed from the primary receiver, and
10  (c) a photovoltaic cell receiver and a thermal receiver
   each of which has a separate target area, with the
   photovoltaic cell receiver and the thermal receiver being
   positioned so that the separate target areas form part of
   a single target area for receiving solar energy from the
15 mirror collector and thereby forming a multi-type
   receiver, and with the receivers being selected on the
   basis of optimising the operation limits and
   responsiveness of the receiver to the flux intensity that
   is incident on respective zones of the single target area.
20
        With regard to item (a) above, the spacing may be
   selected to be sufficient so that there is no heating or
   any other unwanted or undesirable influence of one
   receiver on the other receiver, including components of
25 the receiver such as electrical wiring that causes a loss
   of performance of the receiver.
        With regard to item (c) above, typically, solar
   energy that is concentrated from a number of collectors,
30 such as heliostats, to a single target area will have a
   solar flux distribution that has solar flux intensities
   that increase from the perimeter to the centre of the
   target area.  As described in International publication
   publication W02012/009764, differences in the
35 responsiveness of different receivers to different flux
   intensities in such a distribution provides an opportunity
   to form a single target area that, in effect, has
                                              10394053_1
                                                       (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                                - 13
   different receiver elements (i.e. different types of sub
   receivers) that are optimized for the flux intensities
   incident on the target area and form, in effect, a multi
   type receiver.     By way of example, the applicant has
 5 recognized that the differences in the operation limits
   and responsiveness of thermal receivers and photovoltaic
   cell receivers   (and other types of receivers) to flux
   intensities provides an opportunity to use thermal
   receivers and photovoltaic receivers in different zones of
10 a single target area, where the zones have different flux
   intensities. The term "operation limits and
   responsiveness" of receivers is understood herein to mean
   factors that are relevant to operation limits such as
   energy intensity, variation in energy intensity across a
15 zone of a target area, temperature, current density,
   thermal conductance, and coolant flow rate and factors
   that are relevant to responsiveness such as ability to
   capture energy, receiver cost, conversion efficiency, and
   the value of energy.    By way of example, one factor that
20 may be relevant to a greater of lesser extent in different
   situations is the responsiveness of receivers to
   variations in energy intensity across a zone of a target
   area.
25                   DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         The present invention is described further by way of
   example with reference to the accompanying drawings, of
   which:
30
         Figure 1 is a side elevation, in a very simplified
   and diagrammatic form, of one embodiment of a solar energy
   plant in accordance with the present invention;
35       Figure 2 is a side elevation, in a very simplified
   and diagrammatic form, of another (although not the only
                                               10394053_1
                                                        (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                              - 14
   other) embodiment of a solar energy plant in accordance
   with the present invention;
        Figure 3 is a side elevation, in a very simplified
 5 and diagrammatic form, of another (although not the only
   other) embodiment of a solar energy plant in accordance
   with the present invention; and
        Figure 4 is a side elevation, in a very simplified
10 and diagrammatic form, of another (although not the only
   other) embodiment of a solar energy plant in accordance
   with the present invention.
           DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
15
        The embodiments of the solar energy plant in
   accordance with the invention shown in the Figures are
   combinations of central receiver concentrator photovoltaic
   plants and compressed air systems.
20
        The solar energy plant shown in Figure 1 includes a
   plurality of mirror collectors in the form of heliostats 3
   that are arranged in an array on a given area.          The array
   may be any suitable array.   Each collector 3 is arranged
25 so that the orientation of the collector 3 can be changed
   to track the movement of the Sun and to reflect and to
   concentrate solar energy that contacts the collectors 3.
   The Sun tracking system may be any suitable system.
30      The plant also includes a tower 9 and a solar energy
   receiver 5 in the form of a photovoltaic receiver located
   on the tower 9.  The receiver 5 is arranged to receive
   solar energy from the collectors 3.   The receiver 5 is not
   illustrated in detail in the Figure other than in a very
35 diagrammatic form.  The receiver 5 includes an array of
   photovoltaic solar cells for converting solar energy into
   electrical energy.  The electrical energy is transferred
                                              10394053_1
                                                       (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                              - 15
   via an electrical circuit generally identified by the
   numeral 35 for use as described further below.
        The plant also includes a spectrum splitter 11 that
 5 allows shorter wavelength radiation to pass through the
   splitter 11 to contact the photovoltaic cells of the
   receiver 5 and reflects longer wavelength radiation to
   another location, such as in this instance downwardly
   toward the ground.  The longer wavelength radiation is a
10 source of high temperature thermal energy.
        The plant also includes a thermal storage unit 29 in
   the form of an insulated vessel with an upper section that
   is transparent to longer wavelength radiation that
15 contains a thermal energy transfer medium, for example
   molten salt.  The storage unit 29 is positioned in line
   with the reflected longer wavelength radiation from the
   spectrum splitter 11 so that molten salt is heated by the
   reflected longer wavelength radiation.  The longer
20 wavelength radiation is a source of high temperature
   thermal energy.  In effect, the storage unit 29 and the
   molten salt are a form of solar energy receiver.              The
   storage unit 29 may include solid elements such as porous
   ceramic blocks within the unit to improve the heat storage
25 capacity within the unit and the heat transfer capacity to
   the thermal energy transfer medium.
        The plant also includes a compressed air system that
   includes a compressor 23 for compressing air, a motor 43
30 for powering the compressor 23, a reservoir 25 for storing
   compressed air produced in the compressor 23 under
   pressure, and a compressed air-driven electrical generator
   27 for producing electricity from the energy of the
   compressed air.  The electrical generator 27 is in the
35 form of an air-driven turbine that produces electricity.
   The electricity is transferred to a power conditioning
   unit 45 and then into a local or regional or national
                                              10394053_1
                                                       (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                               - 16
   electricity grid. The motor 43 of the compressor 23 is
   powered by at least a part of the electrical energy
   produced by the photovoltaic solar cells of the receiver 5
   and transferred via the electrical circuit 35.          The
 5 compressed air system also includes a pipe 31 that
   connects the reservoir 25 to an expansion chamber (not
   shown) of the electrical generator 27.   The pipe 31 is
   arranged to pass through the thermal storage unit 29 so
   that compressed air is heated by indirect heat exchange
10 with molten salt (or other thermal storage means) as it
   flows in the pipe 31 through the storage unit 29 from the
   reservoir 25 to the electrical generator 27.
         The compressed air system is also arranged to
15 transfer heat generated by the compressor 23 to the molten
   salt in the thermal storage unit 29.   This is illustrated
   by the line 41.
         In use, the solar energy plant:
20
    (a)  converts solar energy into electrical energy via the
   photovoltaic cells of the receiver 5, and the electrical
   energy powers the motor 43 and operates the compressor 23
   of the compressed air system and produces compressed air;
25 and
    (b)  uses solar energy as thermal energy that heats air in
   the compressed air system of the plant; and
30  (c)  uses the heated compressed air to generate
   electricity in the electrical generator 27.
         More particularly, the compressed air system is a
   viable option for storing solar energy as compressed air
35  (via the compression process) and heat and converting the
   stored energy and heat, i.e. as heated compressed air,
   into electrical energy as required.   In addition, the
                                              10394053_1
                                                       (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                               - 17
   combination of the central receiver concentrator
   photovoltaic plant and the compressed air system makes it
   possible to optimise the use of solar energy by using
   beneficially and therefore taking advantage of thermal
 5 energy produced in the plant.    In later-described
   embodiments of the invention, and also in an embodiment
   based on the Figure 1 embodiment, in addition to direct
   use of solar energy as thermal energy described above,
   heat extracted by coolant used to cool the solar energy
10 receiver 5.
         The electrical circuit 35 transfers that part of the
   electricity from the photovoltaic cells of the receiver 5
   that is not used to power the motor 43 of the compressed
15 air system to the power conditioning unit 45.
         The solar energy plant shown in Figure 2 has the same
   basic components as the plants shown in Figure 1 and the
   same reference numerals are used to describe the same
20 components.
         The plant shown in Figure 2 comprises a plurality of
   mirror collectors in the form of heliostats 3 that are
   arranged in an array.   The array may be any suitable
25 array.   Each collector 3 is arranged so that the
   orientation of the collector 3 can be changed to track the
   movement of the Sun and to reflect and to concentrate
   solar energy that contacts the collectors 3.          The Sun
   tracking system may be any suitable system.
30
         The plant includes a tower 9 and a solar energy
   receiver 5 in the form of a photovoltaic receiver located
   on the tower 9.   The receiver 5 is not illustrated in
   detail in the Figure other than in a very diagrammatic
35 form.   The receiver 5 includes an array of photovoltaic
   solar cells for converting solar energy into electrical
   energy.   The electrical energy is transferred via an
                                               10394053_1 (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                               - 18
   electrical circuit generally identified by the numeral 35
   and a power conditioning unit 45 to a local or regional or
   national electricity grid.
 5      Whilst not shown in Figure 2, the plant includes the
   storage unit 29 containing molten salt (or another thermal
   storage means) and the compressed air system shown in
   Figure 1.   In addition, the compressed air system
   transfers electrical energy stored in the compressed air
10 system to the power conditioning unit 45 as required to be
   used in the local or regional or national electricity
   grid.
         The plant does not include a spectrum splitter 11
15 that reflects a part of the solar energy to the storage
   unit 29 for use as thermal energy to heat the thermal
   energy transfer medium, e.g. molten salt.
         In the Figure 2 embodiment, the receiver 5 is
20 arranged to receive all of the solar energy from the
   collectors 3, and the heat that is required for the
   compressed air system is obtained from thermal energy
   recovered from coolant in a coolant system for cooling the
   photovoltaic solar cells of the photovoltaic receiver 5.
25 In this embodiment, the coolant is the thermal energy
   transfer medium.   The coolant flows in a closed loop
   circuit 37 through and back to the receiver 5 and is
   heated as it flows through the receiver 5.     The circuit 37
   also includes a heat exchanger 47 that extracts heat from
30 the coolant and thereby cools the coolant before the
   coolant flows back to the receiver 5.   The extracted heat
   from the heat exchanger 47 is transferred via a heat
   transfer system 49 to the compressed air system, for
   example to the molten salt storage unit 29, and
35 contributes heat to the thermal storage medium (e.g.
   molten salt).
                                              10394053_1
                                                       (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                               -  19
        The use of heat from the coolant, which is low
   temperature thermal energy    (typically 50-90*C for standard
   photovoltaic solar cells),    in the compressed air system is
   effective use of thermal energy that otherwise would be
 5 waste heat.   It is noted that it is possible to operate
   photovoltaic solar cells at up to 250*C.     A special case of
   this is where specially optimized cells, modules and
   receiver are designed to operate under these conditions
   while maintaining acceptable performance. In this case
10 heat could be extracted at 240*C.
        In another embodiment of the invention based on
   Figure 2, a part of the electrical energy produced by the
   photovoltaic solar cells of the receiver 5 is transferred
15 to the compressed air system and powers the motor 43 of
   the compressor 23.
        The solar energy plant shown in Figure 3 is identical
   to the plant shown in Figures 1 and 2 in terms of the
20 basic components of the plant and the same reference
   numerals are used to describe the same components.
        The plant includes a tower 9 and an upper solar
   energy target 5 and a lower solar energy target 7 that are
25 located on the tower 9 to receive solar energy from the
   collectors 3.   More specifically, in addition to being
   operable to track the Sun, each collector 3 is arranged so
   that the orientation of the collector can be changed to
   direct solar energy selectively at one or other of the
30 upper target 5 or the lower target 7.
        The targets 5, 7 form part of separate solar energy
   receivers.
35      The receivers are not illustrated in detail in the
   Figure other than in a very diagrammatic form.             The upper
   receiver 5 includes an array of photovoltaic solar cells
                                                 10394053_1
                                                          (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                              - 20
   for converting solar energy into electrical energy.                      The
   lower receiver 7 is a thermal receiver for converting
   solar energy into thermal energy.   The Figure 3 embodiment
   extracts thermal energy from both receivers 5, 7 and uses
 5 the thermal energy in a compressed air system.
        The receivers 5, 7 are spaced apart vertically in the
   embodiment of Figure 3 but could be spaced apart
   horizontally or in any other suitable arrangement.                    The
10 separation distance is selected so that the operation of
   one receiver does not interfere with the operation of the
   other receiver and vice versa.   In particular, the spacing
   between the receivers is selected to ensure that heat
   generated by one receiver does not have an impact on the
15 performance of the other receiver, and vice versa.
        Whilst not shown in Figure 3, the plant includes the
   storage unit 29 containing a thermal storage medium (e.g.
   molten salt) and the compressed air system shown in Figure
20 1.  In addition, the compressed air system transfers
   electrical energy generated in the compressed air system
   to the power conditioning unit 45 to be used in the local
   or regional or national electricity grid.
25      The plant does not include a spectrum splitter 11
   that reflects a part of the solar energy to the storage
   unit 29.  Instead, the plant uses the thermal energy from
   the thermal energy receiver 7 as thermal energy for the
   compressed air system.  As is the case with the splitter
30 11 in the Figure 1 embodiment, the thermal energy receiver
   7 is a source of high temperature thermal energy.
        The Figure 3 embodiment, in the same way as the
   Figure 2 embodiment, takes advantage of the heat in the
35 coolant used to cool the receiver 5 as a source of low
   temperature thermal energy  (typically 50-90*C for standard
   photovoltaic solar cells) for the compressed air system.
                                               10394053_1 (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                              - 21
   Specifically, the coolant is a thermal energy transfer
   medium and flows in a closed loop circuit 37 through and
   back to the receiver 5 and is heated as it flows through
   the receiver 5.  The circuit 37 also includes a heat
 5 exchanger 47 that extracts heat from the coolant and
   thereby cools the coolant before the coolant flows back to
   the receiver 5.  The extracted heat from the heat
   exchanger 47 is transferred via a heat transfer system 49
   to the compressed air system, for example to the thermal
10 storage medium (e.g. molten salt) storage unit 29, and
   contributes heat to the thermal storage medium.
        In another embodiment of the invention based on
   Figure 3, high temperature thermal energy is used to
15 increase the temperature of the low temperature thermal
   energy and the output thermal energy is used in the
   compressed air system.
        In another embodiment of the invention based on
20 Figure 3, a part of the electrical energy produced by the
   photovoltaic solar cells of the receiver 5 is transferred
   to the compressed air system and powers the motor 43 of
   the compressor 23 to store energy as compressed air.
25      The solar energy plant shown in Figure 4 has the same
   basic components as the plants shown in Figures 1 to 3 and
   the same reference numerals are used to describe the same
   components.
30      The plant shown in Figure 4 comprises a plurality of
   mirror collectors in the form of heliostats 3 that are
   arranged in an array.  The array may be any suitable
   array.  Each collector 3 is arranged so that the
   orientation of the collector 3 can be changed to track the
35 movement of the Sun and to reflect and to concentrate
   solar energy that contacts the collectors 3.      The Sun
   tracking system may be any suitable system.
                                             10394053_1
                                                      (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                                - 22
         The plant also includes a tower 9 and a solar energy
   receiver 5.
 5       The receiver 5 is a combination of two different
   types of receiving elements that have separate target
   areas that form a single receiver target area.            The two
   different types of receiving elements are not illustrated
   in detail in the Figure other than in a very diagrammatic
10 form.   A central or other zone 15 is a receiver in the
   form of a solar-thermal absorber for converting solar
   energy into thermal energy.     The thermal energy, which
   typically is high temperature thermal energy, is
   transferred away from the target area to the compressed
15 air system.    The remainder of zone 17 that makes up the
   balance of the receiver is in the form of a photovoltaic
   assembly that converts solar energy into electrical energy
   at the receiver.
20       The receiving elements in the zones 15, 17 may take
   the form of   'modules' which have a common compatible form
   and are designed to be of appropriate size and
   configuration to facilitate practical implementation of
   the  'multi-type' receiver.    The zones 15, 17 and, more
25 particularly, the selection of the different types of
   receiving elements for the zones, are based on optimising
   the use of the solar energy on the target area.             In other
   words, the selection of the receiving elements for the
   zones 15, 17 is driven by the solar energy that is
30 incident on the zones rather than by a preference for one
   type of receiver over another type of receiver.
        Whilst not shown in Figure 4, the plant includes the
   storage unit 29 containing a storage medium (e.g. molten
35 salt) and the compressed air system shown in Figure 1.                          In
   addition, the compressed air system transfers electrical
   energy generated in the compressed air system to the power
                                                10394053_1
                                                         (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                              - 23
   conditioning unit 45 to be used in the local or regional
   or national electricity grid.
        The plant does not include a spectrum splitter 11
 5 that reflects a part of the solar energy to the storage
   unit 29.  Instead, the plant uses the thermal energy from
   the receiver in zone 15 of the receiver 5 as thermal
   energy for the compressed air system.   As is the case in
   the Figure 1 embodiment, the thermal energy is high
10 temperature thermal energy.
        In another embodiment of the invention based on
   Figure 4, a part of the electrical energy produced by the
   photovoltaic solar cells of the receiver 5 is transferred
15 to the compressed air system and powers the motor 43 of
   the compressor 23.
        In another embodiment of the invention based on
   Figure 4, in the same way as the Figures 2 and 3
20 embodiments, the embodiment takes advantage of the heat in
   the coolant used to cool the receiver 5 as a source of low
   temperature thermal energy  (typically 50-90*C for standard
   photovoltaic solar cells) for the compressed air system.
25      Many modifications may be made to the present
   invention described above without departing from the
   spirit and scope of the invention.
        By way of example, whilst not described, the
30 receivers shown in the Figures may comprise an optical
   element, such as a mirror, that is associated with a
   receiver that absorbs some solar energy at high
   temperature and directs the remainder of the solar energy
   that is incident on the element onto the target area of
35 the receiver or onto the target area of another receiver.
                                               10394053_1 (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                              - 24
   CLAIMS
   1.   A method of operating a solar energy plant includes
   storing solar energy in a compressed air system of the
 5 plant by converting concentrated solar energy collected
   from a plurality of mirror collectors by:
   (a)  converting part of the concentrated solar energy into
        electrical energy which operates a compressor of the
10      compressed air system and produces compressed air;
        and/or
   (b)  using another part of the concentrated solar energy
        as thermal energy that heats compressed air in the
15      compressed air system of the plant.
   2.   The method defined in claim 1 includes recovering
   stored solar energy as electrical energy from the
   compressed air system as required.
20
   3.   The method defined in claim 1 or claim 2 includes
   recovering stored solar energy as electrical energy from
   the compressed air system by using high pressure air
   produced by the compressor to operate an electrical
25 generator run by the compressed air system and produce
   electricity.
   4.   The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   includes heating air in the compressed air system with
30 heat produced by operating the compressor.
   5.   The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   includes heating a thermal energy transfer medium with
   thermal energy produced from solar energy and heating air
35 in the compressed air system via indirect heat exchange
   relationship.
                                              10394053_1 (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                              - 25
   6.   The method defined in claim 5 includes storing the
   thermal energy transfer medium in a storage unit and
   heating the thermal energy transfer medium by direct
   exposure to solar energy.
 5
   7.   The method defined in claim 6 wherein the thermal
   energy transfer medium is a coolant for cooling solar
   cells of the solar energy plant, and the method includes
   transferring heat from the coolant to the thermal energy
10 transfer medium in the storage unit via indirect heat
   exchange relationship.
   8.   The method defined in claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the
   thermal energy transfer medium is a coolant for cooling
15 solar cells of the solar energy plant, and the method
   includes transferring heat from the coolant to air in the
   compressed air system via indirect heat exchange
   relationship.
20 9.   A solar energy plant in the form of a a central
   receiver concentrator photovoltaic plant adapted to
   collect and concentrate solar energy and convert part of
   the concentrated solar energy into electrical energy and
   another part of the concentrated solar energy into thermal
25 energy, wherein the plant includes a compressed air system
   for storing solar energy, wherein the compressed air
   system includes a compressor for compressing air, a
   reservoir for storing compressed air under pressure, and a
   compressed air-driven electrical generator for producing
30 electricity from the energy of the compressed air, with
   the compressor being adapted to be powered by at least a
   part of the electrical energy production of the plant, and
   with the plant being adapted to use the thermal energy to
   heat air in the compressed air system.
35
                                             10394053_1 (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                              - 26
   10.  The solar energy plant defined in claim 9 includes a
   thermal energy transfer medium for receiving and being
   heated by solar energy and for heating compressed air via
   indirect heat exchange relationship with compressed air.
 5
   11.  The solar energy plant defined in claim 10 includes a
   storage unit for the thermal energy transfer medium and
   the thermal energy transfer medium is in indirect heat
   exchange relationship with air in the compressed air
10 system.
   12.  The solar energy plant defined in claim 11 wherein
   the storage unit and the thermal energy transfer medium in
   the storage unit is adapted to be heated directly by solar
15 energy.
   13.  The solar energy plant defined in any one of claims 9
   to 12 includes a coolant system for cooling a solar cell
   assembly for converting solar energy into electrical
20 energy, with the coolant system being adapted to extract
   thermal energy that is produced by solar energy impinging
   on the solar cell assembly, and with a coolant of the
   coolant system being the thermal energy transfer medium,
   and the coolant system being in heat exchange relationship
25 with air in the compressed air system.
   14.  The solar energy plant defined in any one of claims 9
   to 13 wherein the central receiver concentrator
   photovoltaic plant includes:
30
   (a)  a mirror collector for collecting solar energy and
   selectively directing collected solar energy, and
   (b)  a receiver for receiving solar energy from the mirror
35 collector and (i) transferring solar energy for use
   directly or indirectly as solar energy in the compressed
                                             10394053_1
                                                      (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                              - 27
   air system and/or (ii) converting solar energy into
   electrical energy for use in the compressed air system.
   15.  The solar energy plant defined in claim 14 includes a
 5 spectrum splitter for directing one part of the solar
   energy from the mirror collector for use directly or
   indirectly as solar energy in the compressed air system
   and another part of the solar energy from the mirror
   collector for conversion into electrical energy for use in
10 the compressed air system.
   16.  The solar energy plant defined in claim 14 or claim
   15 includes a secondary mirror collector  (sometimes
   described as a "flux modifier") associated with the
15 receiver for receiving solar energy from the mirror
   collector or otherwise incident on the secondary mirror
   collector and capturing one part of the solar energy as
   thermal energy for use in the compressed air system and
   reflecting another part of the solar energy to the
20 receiver.
   17.  A method of operating a solar energy plant that
   includes storing solar energy in a compressed air system
   of the plant.
25
   22.  A method of operating a solar energy plant includes:
   (a)  converting part of solar energy collected from a
        plurality of mirror collectors into electrical energy
30      in a central receiver concentrator photovoltaic
        plant;
   (b)  using electrical energy generated in step          (a) to
        operates a compressor of a compressed air system and
35      produce compressed air;
                                              10394053_1 (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

                             - 28
   (c) converting another part of the solar energy collected
       from the plurality of mirror collectors into thermal
       energy in the central receiver concentrator
       photovoltaic plant; and
 5
   (d) using thermal energy produced in step (c) to heat
       compressed air in the compressed air system.
10
                                            10394053_1 (GHMatters) P94481 .AU.2 21/06/18

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
