                                           ABSTRACT
           Perforin-2 (P2) is expressed by fibroblasts, microglia and macrophages and was
   found to be responsible for killing bacteria, for example, Mycobacteria smegmatis, M.
 5 avium, Salmonellae, MRSA (drug resistant Stapholococci), E coli. Compounds
   identified by screening assays are selected based on the effects of these compounds on
   P2. Use of these compounds in the treatment of infectious diseases, in particular,
   bacteria and antibiotic-resistant bacteria is also provided.
10

                         PERFORIN 2 DEFENSE AGAINST INVASIVE AND
                               MULTIDRUG RESISTANT PATHOGENS
                                        CROSS REFERENCES
        The present application claims priority to US provisional application filed 61/637,435
  5 filed 24 April 2012, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The present application is a
    divisional application of AU 2013252909, which is the Australian National Phase application
    of PCT/US2013/032503. The entire content of each of these applications are hereby
    incorporated herein by reference.
                      REFERENCE TO A SEQUENCE LISTING SUBMITTED AS
 .0                                   A TEXT FILE VIA EFS-WEB
        The official copy of the sequence listing is submitted concurrently with the specification
    as a text file via EFS-Web, in compliance with the American Standard Code for Information
    Interchange (ASCII), with a file name of 430333seqlist.txt, a creation date of March 12, 2013
    and a size of 2 KB. The sequence listing filed via EFS-Web is part of the specification and is
 .5 hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.
                                STATEMENT OF FEDERAL FUNDING
            This invention was made with government support under grant number CA109094,
    awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the
    invention.
 .0                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            This invention relates to the fields of antibiotics, and drug discovery. More
    specifically, it relates to methods and compounds that are useful in potentiating the body's
    natural defenses to microbial infection.
                                             BACKGROUND
25          Perforin is a cytolytic protein found in the granules of CD8 T-cells and NK cells.
    Upon degranulation, perforin inserts itself into the target cell's plasma membrane, forming a
    pore. The cloning of Perforin by the inventors' laboratory (Lichtenheld, M. G., et al., 1988.
    Nature 335:448-451; Lowrey, D. M., et al., 1989. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 86:247-25 1) and
    by Shinkai et al (Nature (1988) 334:525-527) established the postulated homology of
30  complement component C9 and of perforin (DiScipio, R. G., et al., 1984. Proc Natl Acad Sci
    USA 81:7298-7302).
            Both Perforin- I and Perforin-2 (P2) are pore formers that are synthesized as
    hydrophilic, water soluble precursors. Both can insert into and polymerize within the
                                                     1

   lipid bilayer to form large water filled pores spanning the membrane. The water filled
   pore is made by a cylindrical protein-polymer.
            The inside of the cylinder must have a hydrophilic surface because it forms the
   water filled pore while the outside of the cylinder needs to be hydrophobic because it is
 5 anchored within the lipid core. This pore structure is thought to be formed by an
   amphipathic helix (helix turn helix). It is this part of the protein domain, the so called
   MAC-Pf (membrane attack complex/Perforin) domain, that is most conserved between
   Perforin and C9 and the other complement proteins forming the membrane attack
   complex (MAC) of complement.
10          An mRNA expressed in human and murine macrophages (termed Mpg 1 or Mpeg
    1-macrophage expressed gene) predicting a protein with a MAC/Pf domain was first
   described by Spilsbury (Blood (1995) 85:1620-1629). Subsequently, the same mRNA
   (named MPS-1) was found to be upregulated in experimental prion disease. The group
   of Desjardin analyzed the protein composition of phagosome membranes isolated from
15 macrophages fed with latex beads by 2D-gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry (J
   Cell Biol 152:165-180, 2001). The authors found protein spots corresponding to the
   MPS-1 protein. Mah et al analyzed abalone mollusks and found an mRNA in the blood
   homologous to the Mpegl gene family (Biochem Biophys Res Commun 316:468-475,
   2004) and suggested that predicted protein has similar functions as CTL perforin but that
20 it is part of the innate immune system of mollusks.
                                           SUMMARY
            Described herein are compositions and methods relating modulation of P2
   expression or activity, including those useful for treating microbial infections.
25
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            Figures 1A-1 C show that Perforin-2 enhances the bactericidal effects of ROS and
   NO. Intracellular killing was inhibited by blocking ROS with 10mM NAC, NO with
   10mM L-NAME, or P2 with a pool of 3 P2-specific siRNAs. The gentamycin protection
30 assay was carried out as in Figures 2A-2F. 24h after transfection with P-2 siRNA or
   scrambled siRNA. PEM were infected with (Figure 1A) E. coli, (Figure 1B) S.
   typhimurium, or (Figure 1C) M smegmatis. Inhibitors were added 1h before infection
   and maintained throughout assay. Cells were lysed and CFU determined at lh and 5h
                                                      2

   post-infection. Data shown are representative of 3 experiments with 2 replicates;
   asterisks denote significance (p<0.05) based on students t-test.
            Figures 2A-2F show that Perforin-2 is a pore-forming protein. (Figure 2A)
   Domain structure of P-2; TM, transmembrane domain; Cyto, cytoplasmic domain.
 5 Electron micrograph of polymerized perforin-2 membrane lesions negatively stained
   with neutral Na phosphotungstic acid. (Figure 2B) Overview of membrane-associated,
   polymerized P-2. Note the stain-filled pores with internal diameters of 9.2nm. (Figure
   2C) Incompletely polymerized complexes (arrows) at higher magnification. (Figure 2D)
   The arrow points to a rare oblique view of a poly-P2 complex in an oblique view
10 delineating the three-dimensional shape. (Figures 2E, 2F) Two types of side view of
   membrane-associated poly-P2. (Figure 2G) Membrane-associated Perforin- 1 (P-1) from
   CTL 3 stained with uranyl formate for comparison at the same magnification as Perforin
   2 in Figure 2A; note the larger diameter of the pore in P-1 (16nm) compared to P-2
   (9.2nm).
15          Figures 3A-3I show that Perforin-2 kills intracellular Methicillin-resistant S.
   aureus(MRSA), S. typhimurium, M avium M smegmatis, and E. coli in macrophages
   and microglia. Cells were infected as indicated in methods, washed to remove remaining
   extracellular bacteria, and gentamycin was added. Intracellular survival was measured by
   lysis of cells at the time indicated and determination of colony forming units (CFU)
20 (Figures 3A-3D): P-2 siRNA pool knockdown of P-2 in RAW, PEM and BV-2
   microglia cells allows intracellular survival of pathogenic bacteria that are otherwise
   killed. (Figure 3E): Knockdown of P-2, Western blot analysis of P-2 protein expression
   in RAW cells following P-2 siRNA treatment. (Figures 3F and3 G): Overexpression of
   P-2-RFP fusion protein leads to enhanced killing of bacteria compared to vector control.
25 (Figure 3H): Knockdown of endogenous P-2 and complementation with P-2-RFP fusion
   protein in macrophages restores killing activity against M. smegmatis. (Figure 31):
   Western blot analysis of P-2 and P-2-RFP expression in P-2-complementation assay in
   RAW cells. Graphs shown are representative of 3 or more experiments with 3 replicates.
   Asterisks represent significant (p<0.05) differences as determined using student's t-test.
30          Figures 4A-4D show the intracellular Perforin-2-GFP localization in
   macrophages. RAW cells were transfected with P-2-GFP and 24 hours later fixed and
   stained for various cellular organelles. P-2-GFP colocalizes with ER (Figure 4A) and
   Golgi membranes and trans-Golgi network (Figure 4B), but not with plasma membrane
   (Figure 4C) or lysosomes (Figure 4D). The lower panels in the images show the
                                                     3

    indicated section in overlay (left panel) and as single color images. Colocalization
    appears yellow in the overlay.
            Figures 5A, 5B show the quantitation of P-2 knock down at RNA and protein
    levels. siRNA mediated knockdown of P2 in Figure 5A, RAW cells and Figure 5B, PEM
 5  compared to scramble control. Bar graph shows P-2 relative mRNA expression in each
    cell type determined by quantitative TAQMAN TM RT-PCR. P-2 mRNA levels were
    normalized to GAPDH. Western blot analysis shows that protein levels correspond to
   mRNA expression in treated samples. Cells were harvested for analyses 24hr post
   transfection.
10          Figure 6 shows that inhibitors of ROS and NO do not directly inhibit bacterial
   growth. E. coli, S. typhimurium and M smegmatis were grown in IMDM +10%FBS in
   the presence or absence of NAC (10mM) or L-NAME (10mM) for 5 hours. Bacterial
   growth was measured by spectrophotometer at an OD of 600nM at 1 and 4 hours after
   addition of inhibitors to the culture medium.
15          Figure 7 shows the phylogenetic conservation of Perforin-2. Alignment of
   predicted protein sequences from several species (Vector NTI, Invitrogen). The MACPF
   and P-2 domains are boxed, the transmembrane domain boxed and highlighted in yellow.
   The conserved tyrosine and serine in the cytoplasmic domain are highlighted in pink and
   grey, respectively. Red font and yellow highlight indicates identity in all species, blue
20 highlight indicates identity in four or more sequences, green indicates conservative
   replacement.
            Figure 8 shows the validation of P-2-GFP transfection and protein expression.
   Western blot analysis of transfected P-2-GFP expression in 293 cells; P-2-GFP was
   detected using polyclonal antiserum raised against the cytoplasmic domain of P-2 (P-2
25 cyto), a commercial peptide antiserum (P-2 Abcam), and an anti-GFP antibody. P-2
   GFP migrated at the expected size of approximately 110 kD.
            Figures 9A-9D show that P-2 mediates intracellular bactericidal activity in
   macrophage, dendritic and microglia cells and cell lines. BMDM/DC were differentiated
   from murine bone marrow for 10 days in the presence GM-CSF and then stimulated with
30 (Figure 9A) LPS (1mg/ml) and IFNy (100U/ml) or (Figure 9B) poly(I:C) (3mg/ml) for
   48hr. (Figure 9C) BV2 microglial cells were stimulated for 24hr with IFNy (IOOU/ml).
   (Figure 9D) RAW cells were stimulated for 24hr with LPS (lng/ml) and IFNy
   (100U/ml). Cells were harvested at the indicated time points and analyzed for P-2
   message expression by TAQMANTM RT-PCR, relative to GAPDH.
                                                      4

             Figures 1OA-I OE show that knockdown of P2 inhibits intracellular bactericidal
    activity. (Figures 1OA- 1OC) RAW cells treated with P-2 siRNA (dashed bars) or
     scramble siRNA control (solid black bars) were infected with M smegmatis, MRSA, and
    S. typhimurium, respectively at MOI 10. (Figures 1OD and 1OE) PEM and BMDM/DC
  5 were treated with P2 siRNA or scramble siRNA control and infected with M smegmatis
    at MOI 10. Surviving intracellular bacteria were determined in the gentamycin
    protection assay and enumerated by CFU assay at the indicated time points. Graphs
    shown are representative of at least 3 experiments per cell:bacteria combination. Error
    bars represent s.e.m. of 2-3 replicates. Asterisks represent significant differences using
10   Student's t-test.
            Figures 1lA-i IF show the overexpression of P-2-RFP increases intracellular
    killing activity. The indicated cells were transfected with a vector containing the P-2
    RFP fusion protein (black bars) or control empty vector (hatched bars) and infected with
    the indicated bacteria at MOI 10 as described in the Materials and Methods. Surviving
15  bacteria were enumerated by CFU assay at the indicated time points. Graphs shown are
    representative of at least 3 experiments per cell:bacteria combination. Error bars
    represent s.e.m. of 2-3 technical replicates. Asterisks represent significant differences
    using Student's t-test.
            Figures 12A, 12B show that P-2-RFP transfection into cells with endogenous P-2
20  knock down restores intracellular bactericidal activity. Figure 12A, BMDM/DC or
    Figure 12B, RAW cells were co-transfected with a siRNA targeting the 3'UTR of P-2
    and a vector containing the P-2-RFP fusion protein or empty vector alone and infected
    with the indicated bacteria as described in the Materials and Methods. Red lines indicate
    the effect of P2RFP on intracellular bacterial survival compared to the RFP vector
25  control and black lines represent the effect of P2 siRNA treatment (3'UTR targeting
    only) on bacterial survival compared to scrambled siRNA control within the same
    experiment. Error bars represent s.e.m. of 3-4 individual experiments with 2-3 replicates.
            Figures 13A-13C show that P-2 does not co-localize with early endosome
    markers or the nucleus. (Figure 13A) Differential staining patterns of P2-GFP (left
30  panel) and GFP (right panel) transiently transfected and expressed in RAW cells. P-2
    GFP does not co-localize with (Figure 13B) early endosomes (EEA-1, red) or (Figure
    13C) the nucleus (Hoechst, red). Images were taken using a Leica SP5 inverted confocal
    microscope and 40X objective.
                                                      5

            Figures 14A- 14J show that Perforin-2 mRNA is upregulated by type 1- and type
   2-interferon. Murine embryonic fibroblasts (Figure 14A), a rectal cancer cell line (Figure
    14B), myoblast cell line (Figure 14C), and an ovarian cell line (Figure 14D) were treated
   for 14 hours with 100 U/ml interferon-a, interferon-p, and interferon-y treated. LPS was
 5 treated at 1 ng/ml; IL-la at 10 U/ml, IL-1 P at 1 ng/ml, and TNFa at 20 ng/mL. A human
   embryonic kidney cell line (Figure 14E) and cervical cancer cell line (Figure 14F) were
   treated with human IFN-a at 150 U/ml, IFN-p and IFN-y at 100 U/ml. The BV2
   microglial cell line was stimulated with 100 U/ml of murine Interferon-y for 14 hours to
   upregulate P-2 mRNA and protein. mEF treated with IFN-y for 14 hours (mEF), or IFN
10 y for 14 hours followed by 1 hour of treatment with 25 mM MG-132 (mEF+MG132)
   (Figure 14G). Human primary keratinocytes were analyzed for protein expression with
   indicated recombinant human IFN treatment (Figure 14H). mEF were treated with E.
   coli or M smegmatis. At indicated time points, cells were harvested and analyzed for P
   2 mRNA and compared to uninfected controls by TAQMANTM PCR. (Figure 141) mEF
15 were either not stimulated, or stimulated for 14 hours with IFN-y at 100 U/ml. After
   stimulation, mEF were infected with M. smegmatis and analyzed for colony forming
   units at indicated time points.
            Figures 15A- 15F show the poly-perforin-2 pores on bacteria. mEF were treated
   with murine Interferon-y for 14 hours, and then infected which methicillin-resistant S.
20 aureus (Figures 15A, 151B) or M smegmatis (Figures 15D, 15E). After 5 hours of
   infection, mEFs were lysed with detergent, and intact bacteria were harvested and
   negatively stained for transmission electron microscopy. HEK293 cell membranes
   overexpressing P-2 cDNA were processed to serve as a positive control (Figure 15C).
   Membrane Attack Complex (MAC) of complement pores on E. coli are shown for
25 comparison19 (Figure 15F).
            Figures 16A- 16L show that knock down of endogenous Perforin-2 enhances
   intracellular bacterial growth. Mouse rectal carcinoma CMT-93 was transiently
   transfected with a P-2 siRNA pool, or with P-2-RFP. Scramble siRNA or RFP were also
   transfected and analyzed to serve as controls for P-2 siRNA and P-2-RFP respectively.
30 All transfections were performed 24 hours prior to infection. 14 hours prior to infection,
   cells were incubated with 1OOU/ml of species specific IFN-y. At indicated time points
   after infection, cells were lysed and plated for CFU analysis. (Figures 16A- 16D) mEF
   were transfected with P-2siRNA and complemented with siRNA resistant P-2 -RFP
   cDNA 24 hours prior to infection. 14 hours prior to infection, interferon-y was added.
                                                     6

   mEF were infected with late log phase S typhimurium. At indicated time points mEFs
   were lysed and analyzed for colony forming units. Mouse astrocytes (Figure 16F),
   human pancreatic cancer (Figure 16G), Human bladder cancer (Figure 16H), Mouse
   myoblast (Figure 161), human cervical cancer (Figure 16J), Mouse ovarian cancer
 5 (Figure 16K), Human umbilical cord endothelial vein (Figure 16L) were transfected with
   species specific P-2 siRNA or scramble siRNA 24 hours prior to infection, and
   stimulated with species specific IFN-y 14 hours prior to infection. Cells were infected
   with indicated bacterium and lysed at indicated time points for CFU determination.
            Figures 17A- 17J show that P-2 increases susceptibility of intracellular bacteria to
10 lysozyme. (Figures 17A-17C) Representative images taken by phase light microscopy
   (50x magnification) of plated M smegmatis micro-colonies on Middlebrook 7H1 1 agar
   plates. (Figure 17A) M smegmatis plated prior to incubation with mEF (Figure 17B) M
   smegmatis plated after 5-hour infection with IFN-y preactivated mEF with 30 min
   control (no lysozyme) incubation on ice. (Figure 17C) M smegmatis plated after 5-hour
15 infection with IFN-7 preactivated mEF with 30-minute lysozyme incubation on ice after
   mEF lysis. (Figure 17D) Quantification of lysozyme effect on mEFs infected with M
   smegmatis, percentages are derived from each plated sample at 5 hours infection.
   Results consist of 5 experiments with technical replicates in each experiment. 1000
   bacteria were counted and differentiated between plump and normal morphology and the
20 percentage of plump is reported. (Figures 17E-17G): mEFs were transfected 24 hours
   prior to infection with scramble siRNA (Figure 17E), P-2 siRNA (Figure 17F), and P-2
   RFP (Figure 17G) and stimulated with IFN-y for 14 hours, then infected with MRSA. At
   the indicated time points, eukaryotic cells were lysed to harvest intracellular bacterium
   and divided into six equal fractions. From these equal fractions of bacterial lysates, half
25 were treated with lysozyme with the remainder given buffer. After a 30-minute
   treatment on ice to allow for lysozyme activity, bacteria were plated to analyze the effect
   of lysozyme. (Figures 17H- 17J) Mouse rectal carcinoma cell line, CMT-93 was
   transiently transfected with scramble siRNA (Figure 17H), P-2 siRNA (Figure 171), or P
   2-RFP (Figure 17J) and stimulated with IFN-y. After treatment, these cells were infected
30 with M. smegmatis. At indicated time points, the eukaryotic cells were lysed and
   analyzed for lysozyme-mediated killing.
            Figures 18A- 181 show that P-2 is inducible with type 1- and type 2-interferon in
   human and mouse tissues. (Figures 18A- 18D) Murine P-2 mRNA transcript is inducible
   after type 1 and type 2 interferon treatment in colon cell carcinoma (Figure 18A),
                                                     7

   melanoma (Figure 18B), primary meningeal fibroblast (Figure 18C), primary astrocytes
   (Figure 18D). (Figures 18E- 181) Induction of human P-2 mRNA after type 1- and type
   2-interferon treatment in bladder cancer (Figures 18E, 18F), pancreatic cancer (Figure
    18G), primary keratinocytes (Figure 18H), and umbilical vein endothelial cells (Figure
 5  181).
           Figures 19A- 19G: show the efficiency of mRNA knockdown with P-2 siRNA.
   P-2 transcript was measured for the following conditions: no transfection, P-2 siRNA
   transfection, or scramble siRNA. All cells were stimulated for 14 hours with 100U/ml of
   IFN-y. (Figures 19A-19D) The following mouse lines are a representative sampling of
10 P-2 knockdown following siRNA treatment. These include: mEF (Figure 19A), rectal
   carcinoma (Figure 19B), meningeal fibroblast (Figure 19C), and astrocytes (Figure 19D).
   In addition, the following human cell lines will also serve as a representative sampling of
   P-2 transcript knockdown using human P-2 specific siRNA. These include HUVEC (E),
   pancreatic cancer (Figure 19F), and bladder cancer (Figure 19G). Y Indicates that P-2
15 transcript was not detected by qRT-PCR through 45 cycles.
           Figures 20A, 20B show that P-2 knock down allows unimpeded intracellular
   bacterial replication that kills eukaryotic cells. Absolute live cell counts (Figure 20A)
   and viability (Figure 20B) of siRNA-treated mEFs post-infection with M smegmatis as
   determined by trypan blue exclusion. Data shown from 4 individual experiments.
20         Figures 21A-21AF show that Perforin-2 knock down enhances intracellular
   bacterial growth in a variety of cell types. The following cells were transiently
   transfected with P-2 siRNA or scramble siRNA 24 hours prior to infection: (Figures
   21A-21C) Murine C2C12 myoblasts, (Figures 21D-21F) Murine ovarian MOVAC 5009,
   (Figures 21 G-2 1I) Human HeLa cervical carcinoma, (Figures 21 J-2 1L) Human
25 Umbilical Vein Endothelial cells (HUVEC) (Figures 21M-21P) Murine ovarian
   MOVAC 5447, (Figures 21Q-21T) CT-26 colon carcinoma, (Figures 21U-21X) Murine
   B 16F 10 melanoma (Figures 21 Y-2 1AB) Human MIA-PaCa-2 pancreatic cancer,
   (Figures 21 AC-2 1AF) Human UM-UC-9 bladder cancer. 14 hours prior to infection,
   cells were incubated with species-specific 100U/ml of IFN-y. At the indicated time
30 points after infection, cells were lysed and plated for CFU analysis.
           Figures 22A-22C show that P-2 complementation restores killing activity in cells
   with knock down of endogenous P-2. mEF cells transfected with P-2 siRNA and co
   transfected with siRNA resistant P-2 cDNA are able to restore killing activity against
   (Figure 22A) M smegmatis, (Figure 22B) E. coli, and (Figure 22C) MRSA.
                                                      8

            Figures 23A-23C show that lysozyme alone does not decrease CFU. MRSA
   (Figure 23A), E. coli (Figure 23B), and M smegmatis (Figure 23C) were treated to
   determine susceptibility of these respective bacteria to the effects of lysozyme. Three
   separate experiments are shown with CFU counts prior to and after incubation on ice for
 5 30 minutes, with and without lysozyme addition.
            Figures 24A-24L show that lysozyme enhances bactericidal action of Perforin-2.
   Perforin-2 is able to modulate the bactericidal activity of lysozyme on previously
   unresponsive bacteria. Increased activity of lysozyme is presented for mEF infected with
   E. coli (Figures 24A-24C), mEF infected with M. smegmatis (Figures 24D-24F), CMT
10 93 infected with E. coli (Figures 24G-24I), and CMT-93 infected with MRSA.
            Figures 25A-C show that P-2 deficiency leads to uncontrolled and lethal bacterial
   growth. (a) Daily weight measurements from P-2+/+ (0), P2-/- (0) and P-2+/- (0)
   littermates. Mice received 20mg streptomycin and 24h later 105 or 102 S. typhimurium
   RL144 by oro-gastric gavage. n=10 and 15 (analysis: multiple unpaired t-tests for each
15 row). (b) Dissemination of S. typhimurium from intestines to blood liver and spleen
   (analysis: Kruskal -Wallis tests). (c) Lack of control of S. typhimurium replication in
   genetic P2-/- PEM (0) compared to siRNA P-2 knock down PEM (0); CFU assay as
   described in material and methods (analysis: unpaired t-tests).
            Figures 26A-F show that P-2 is expressed ubiquitously and is bactericidal against
20 Salmonella typhimurium, Mycobacterium smegmatis and avium, and MRSA. (a).
   Western blot analysis of PMN and macrophages from human blood and western blot and
   CFU assay of siRNA treated HL60-derived PMN. P-2 specific (E) and scramble control
   (E) siRNA transfected HL60/PMN cells were infected with the indicated bacteria and
   CFU analyzed at the indicated times as described in methods. (b) CFU assay of IFN-0
25 induced intestinal epithelial CMT93 cells following infection with the bacteria as
   indicated. Cells were transfected with siRNA: P-2 specific (E) or scramble control (0)
   and with plasmid-cDNA for: P-2-RFP (E) or RFP (0) and stimulated overnight with
   IFN-y prior to infection. (c) (d) P-2 induced by IFN-y in primary human umbilical cord
   endothelial cells (HUVEC) or cervical epithelial cells (HeLa) kills M.smegmatis (and
30 other bacteria - not shown). (e) Complete clearance of M. avium from RAW
   macrophages by P-2-RFP transfection (f) Complementation of endogenous P-2 knock
   down in MEF with P-2-RFP. CFU assay and western blot analysis of P-2 siRNA and P
   2-RFP transfected and IFN-y activated MEF followed by infection with Salmonella; P-2
                                                     9

   siRNA + RFP (O), P-2 siRNA + P-2-RFP (0), and scramble siRNA + RFP (A).
   Statistics by t-tests.
            Figures 27A-E show that bacteria have mechanisms to block P-2. (a) Salmonella
   blocks P-2 mRNA induction in naYve MEF (not activated by IFN). Relative P-2 mRNA
 5 levels following infection with the indicated Salmonella and E.coli strains. (b) C.
   trachomatis blocks IFN-L0 mediated induction of P-2 mRNA expression in HeLa cells.
   Chloramphenical (Cm) treated chlamydiae induce P-2 mRNA. Data are presented as
   mean ± standard deviation of triplicate samples. (c) Enteropathogenic E coli (EPEC)
   block P-2 mediated killing if they carry the CIF plasmid. (d) P-2 message levels dermis
10 and epidermis excised from the edges of non-healing chronic ulcers. The skin samples
   are divided into adjacent and distant halves to chronic skin ulcers, the ratio of adjacent to
   distant P-2 mRNA levels is depicted. Statistics by t-tests; n=10.
            Figures 28A-D show that P-2 translocates to the bacterium-containing vacuole.
   (a). Protein domain structure, predicted transmembrane orientation of P-2 within
15 membrane vesicles, and sequence conservation of the cytoplasmic domain in mammalian
   species. (b) Representative confocal images of P-2 siRNA and transiently P-2-GFP
   (green) transfected BV2 5min after infection with Salmonella; DNA stained by DAPI,
   shown in false color, white. Three vertical slices of 1.2pi representing the whole cell are
   shown. (c) Representative confocal images of P-2 siRNA and transiently P-2-RFP (red)
20 transfected BV2 microglial cells infected with E.coli-GFP (green) for 5 minutes and then
   fixed and imaged. (d) Perinuclear localization of P-2-GFP in uninfected cells;
   fluorescence and corresponding phase image is shown.
            Figures 29A-C show pore formation by Perforin-2. (a) Electron micrograph of
   poly-P-2 pores in Hek-293 membranes. White arrows show typical polymeric ring
25 structures with stain-filled pores of 9.2+0.5nm internal diameter. Black arrows point to
   incompletely and irregularly polymerized complexes. Negative stain with neutral Na
   phosphotungstate. (c,d) Electron micrographs of polymerized P-2 membrane lesions on
   M. smegmatis (c) and MRSA (d) following infection of IFN-y induced MEF. Bacterial
   membranes were isolated as described in methods and negatively stained for
30 transmission electron microscopy. White arrows point to circular black, stain filled
   pores on the bacterial cell wall surrounded by white narrow borders putatively created by
   polymerizing P-2. Black arrows point to irregular polymers.
                                                     10

            Figure 30: (A) P-2 siRNA knock down in rectal epithelial carcinoma cells causes
   intracellular replication of S. typhimurium, Methicillin resistant S. aureus (MRSA,
   clinical isolate) and Mycobacterium smegmatis; P-2-RFP overexpression increases
   killing of intracellular bacteria. (B) P-2-RFP but not RFP transfection restores killing
 5 activity in mEF when endogenous P-2 is knocked- down. (C) Knock down of P-2 and
   complementation with P-RFP, western blots. Cells were transfected 24 hours before
   infection with P-2-siRNA specific for the 3'UTR of P-2 or with scrambled siRNA
   together with RFP or P-2-RFP, lacking the 3'UTR of endogenous P-2. At -16h cells were
   incubated with 100U/ml IFN-y to induce P-2-RNA. At Oh the cells were incubated for 1h
10 with bacteria at Mol of 30, washed to remove external bacteria and replated with
   gentamycin to prevent growth of extracellular bacteria. Host cells were lysed at the
   indicated times with NP40 and CFU determined in the lysates. Please note that knock
   down of P-2 by P-2 siRNA increases intracellular CFU indicating that P-2 blockade
   permits bacterial replication, which kills host cells (as indicated, except Salmonella).
15 Transfection with P-2-RFP (P-2 C-terminal RFP fusion) but not RFP increases killing of
   intracellular bacteria (3 left panels) or restores P-2 activity when P-2 was knocked down.
            Figure 31: Intracellular bacterial replication when P-2 is knocked down and only
   ROS and NO are present (red circles). Good killing when P-2, ROS and NO are present
   (green solid spheres). Intermediate killing with P-2 + NO (black solid triangles) or P-2 +
20 ROS (diamonds). Effectiveness of P-2 knock-down (right panel). Cells: IFN treated,
   thioglycolate elicited, peritoneal macrophages and S. typhimurium.
            Figure 32: (a) P-2-GFP, RASA2 and LC3-RFP colocalize on endocytosed
   bacteria. Two top panels: IFN activated BV2 stained with DAPI (DNA), RASA-2
   antibody and transfected with P-2-GFP and LC3-RFP. All other panels: BV2 infected at
25  100:1 with Salmonella typhimurium for 5 min and then fixed with para-formaldehyde.
   Fluorescent label as indicated in the panels. Note one extracellular bacterium (arrow) and
   several killed intracellular bacteria (asterisks) as indicated by DAPI staining and P-2
   GFP. Colocalization of RASA2 and LC3-RFP. (b) Trans-location of P-2-RFP to E.coli
   GFP containing vacuole (arrow in phase) within 5 minutes of infection of IFN activated
30 BV-2.
            Figure 33: Colocalization of P-2 and RASA2 in/on perinuclear membranes in
   resting uninfected RAW cells transfected with P-2-GFP and stained with RASA2 anti
   body.
                                                       11

            Figure 34: (a) Activation of mEF with IFN increases P-2 mRNA expression (left,
   Taqman PCR) and enhances intracellular killing of Mycobacteria (right, gentamycin
   protection assay). (b) Live WT Salmonella suppress P-2 induction in mEF. Heat killed
   and PhoP mutant Salmonella and E. coli K12 induce P-2. mEF were infected and after lh
 5 washed and plated in gentamycin.
            Figure 35: (a) siRNA knock down of RASA2 inhibits intracellular killing of
   Mycobacteria by BV2 and allows intracellular replication (solid bars). (b)
   Immunoprecipitation of P-2-GFP with anti-GFP and pull down of RASA2 in RAW cells
   transfected with P-2-GFP.
10          Figure 36: mEF kill intracellular MRSA and generate cell wall damage similar to
   poly P-2 on eukaryotic membranes. Left panel MRSA cell walls obtained 4 hours after
   infection by detergent lysis of mEF; negative stain with uranyl formate. Right: poly P-2
   complexes on HEK293 membranes; negative stained with Na phospho-tungstate Scale
   bars: 400A. Note similar diameter (90A) of cell wall/membrane pores.
15              Figure 37: siRNA knock down of Atgl4L or P-2 blocks killing and enables
   replication of intracellular bacteria in BV2 microglia. Intracellular killing or survival of
   mycobacteria determined in the gentamycin protection assay.
                Figure 38: siRNA knock down of (a) P-2, (b) Atgl4L, (c) Atgl6L, (d) Atg5
   enables Salmonella replication in mEF. In mEF P-2 is preventing intracellular replication
20 of Salmonella that replicate when P-2 is knocked down. Identical effects have been
   reported for knock down of autophagy in agreement with our data presented here.
                Figure 39: 3-MA inhibits vps34 and allows replication of Salmonella in mEF
   (blue line, in c) similar to P-2-knock-down (red line in a-c). Bafilomycin (blue, panel b)
   similar to scramble siRNA (bleu, panel a) does inhibit P-2 mediated bacteriostasis of
25 Salmonella.
                Figure 40: Model of Perforin-2 mechanism.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Definitions
30           Before describing the invention in greater detail the following definitions are set
   forth to illustrate and define the meaning and scope of the terms used to describe the
   invention herein:
                                                     12

               By the term "modulate," it is meant that any of the mentioned activities, are,
   e.g., increased, enhanced, agonized (acts as an agonist), promoted, upregulated,
   decreased, reduced, suppressed, blocked, downregulated, or antagonized (acts as an
   antagonist). Modulation can "increase" or "upregulate" activity more than 1-fold, 2-fold,
 5 3-fold, 5-fold, 10-fold, 100-fold, etc., over baseline values. Modulation can also
   decrease or downregulate activity below baseline values. As used herein a "decrease" or
   "downregulation" is meant at least a 1%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%,
   80%, or 90% decrease relative to an appropriate control. Modulation can also normalize
   an activity to a baseline value.
10              As used herein, a "pharmaceutically acceptable" component/carrier etc., is
   one that is suitable for use with humans and/or animals without undue adverse side
   effects (such as toxicity, irritation, and allergic response) commensurate with a
   reasonable benefit/risk ratio.
                As used herein, the term "safe and effective amount" refers to the quantity of
15 a component which is sufficient to yield a desired therapeutic response without undue
   adverse side effects (such as toxicity, irritation, or allergic response) commensurate with
   a reasonable benefit/risk ratio when used in the manner of this invention. By
   "therapeutically effective amount" is meant an amount of a compound of the present
   invention effective to yield the desired therapeutic response.
20              The terms "patient" or "individual" are used interchangeably herein, and
   refers to a mammalian subject to be treated, with human patients being preferred. In
   some cases, the methods of the invention find use in experimental animals, in veterinary
   application (e.g., in cats, dogs, horses, cows, sheep, and pigs), and in the development of
   animal models for disease, including, but not limited to, rodents including mice, rats, and
25 hamsters; and primates.
                "Treatment" is an intervention performed with the intention of preventing the
   development or altering the pathology or symptoms of a disorder. Accordingly,
   "treatment" refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative
   measures.
30              "Target molecule" includes any molecule which affects or modulates the
   expression, function or activity of Perforin-2. This includes those in Table 1, for
   example, and those which are yet to be identified.
               In accordance with the present invention, there may be employed
   conventional molecular biology, microbiology, recombinant DNA, immunology, cell
                                                        13

   biology and other related techniques within the skill of the art. See, e.g., Sambrook et
   al., (2001) Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual. 3rd ed. Cold Spring Harbor
   Laboratory Press: Cold Spring Harbor, New York; Sambrook et al., (1989) Molecular
   Cloning: A Laboratory Manual. 2nd ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press: Cold
 5 Spring Harbor, New York; Ausubel et al., eds. (2005) Current Protocols in Molecular
   Biology. John Wiley and Sons, Inc.: Hoboken, NJ; Bonifacino et al., eds. (2005) Current
   Protocols in Cell Biology. John Wiley and Sons, Inc.: Hoboken, NJ; Coligan et al., eds.
   (2005) Current Protocols in Immunology, John Wiley and Sons, Inc. : Hoboken, NJ;
   Coico et al., eds. (2005) Current Protocols in Microbiology, John Wiley and Sons, Inc.:
10 Hoboken, NJ; Coligan et al., eds. (2005) Current Protocols in Protein Science, John
   Wiley and Sons, Inc. : Hoboken, NJ; Enna et al., eds. (2005) Current Protocols in
   Pharmacology John Wiley and Sons, Inc.: Hoboken, NJ; Hames et al., eds. (1999)
   Protein Expression: A Practical Approach. Oxford University Press: Oxford; Freshney
   (2000) Culture of Animal Cells: A Manual of Basic Technique. 4th ed. Wiley-Liss;
15 among others. The Current Protocols listed above are updated several times every year.
   TherapeuticCompositions
                Embodiments are directed to identification of compounds which modulate the
   expression, function or activity of Perforin-2, both in vitro and in vivo. One of the
20 approaches taken was to identify molecules which modulate the expression, function or
   activity of P2. These molecules were identified based on yeast hybrid systems, described
   in detail in the examples section which follows. Modulation of Perforin-2 expression,
   functions or any activities by candidate therapeutic agents will be effective in the
   prevention or treatment of infection by pathogenic organisms, especially those which
25 have developed and those that will likely develop resistance to antibiotics, for example,
   bacteria.
                In one embodiment, a method of modulating function, activity or expression
   of Perforin-2 (P2) in vitro or in vivo comprising: contacting a cell in vitro or
   administering to a patient, an effective amount of at least one agent which modulates
30 function, activity or expression of one or more target molecules associated with P2
   expression, function or activity is provided.
           In another embodiment, a method is provided to identify at least one agent that
   modulates expression, function or activity of Perforin-2, the method comprising:
   contacting a cell expressing one or more target molecules associated with Perforin-2
                                                     14

   expression, function or activity with the at least one agent; measuring the expression,
   function or activity of the one or more target molecules associated with Perforin-2
   expression, function or activity; and comparing the expression, function or activity of the
   one or more target molecules with a control, wherein contact with the at least one agent
 5 modulates the expression, function or activity of said one or more target molecules
   thereby identifying an agent that modulates expression, function or activity of Perforin-2.
                In some embodiments, the one or more target molecules associated with P2
   function, activity or expression comprise: src, ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2M,
   GAPDH, P21RAS/gap1m, Galectin 3, ubiquitin C (UCHL1), proteasomes, vps34,
10 ATG5, ATG7, ATG9L1, ATG14L, ATG16L, LC3, Rab5, fragments, or associated
   molecules thereof. Molecules associated with the target molecules, can be any
   intracellular molecules involved in the various pathways that these target molecules
   participate, molecules which associate with these molecules, signaling pathways,
   molecules which regulate transcription and translation of these target molecules.
15              In other embodiments, the at least one agent upregulates the expression,
   function or activity of one or more target molecules associated with Perforin-2
   expression, function or activity. Alternatively, the at least one agent downregulates the
   expression, function or activity of one or more target molecules associated with Perforin
   2 expression, function or activity.
20              In some embodiments, the P2 expression, function or activity is upregulated
   by administration of the at least one agent which upregulates the function, activity or
   expression of the one or more target molecules associated with P2 function, expression
   or activity.
                In some embodiments, the P2 expression, function or activity is
25 downregulated by administration of the at least one agent which downregulates the
   function, activity or expression of the one or more molecules associated with P2
   function, expression or activity.
                In some cases it may be desired to upregulate some of the target molecules
   and to inhibit or keep constant the functions, activities or expressions of other target
30 molecules. Thus, in some embodiments, the P2 expression, function or activity is
   upregulated by administration of at least one agent which independently upregulates or
   downregulates the function, activity or expression of at least two molecules associated
   with P2 function, expression or activity.
                                                      15

                In other embodiments, the P2 expression, function or activity is
    downregulated by administration of at least one agent which independently upregulates
    or downregulates the function, activity or expression of at least two molecules associated
    with P2 function, expression or activity.
 5              In another embodiment, the P2 expression, function or activity is upregulated
    by administration of a combination of at least two agents which independently
   upregulate or downregulate the function, activity or expression of at least two molecules
    associated with P2 function, expression or activity.
                In some embodiments, the P2 expression, function or activity is
10  downregulated by administration of a combination of at least two agents which
   independently upregulate or downregulate the function, activity or expression of at least
   two molecules associated with P2 function, expression or activity.
               In other embodiments, modulation of P2 expression, function or activity
   comprises an optional step of administering an agent which directly modulates
15 expression, function or activity of the P2 molecule. Such molecules, can be ones which
   inhibits transcription or translation of P2. See, for example, US Publication No.:
   20090142768, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
               In other embodiments, an agent comprises: a small molecule, protein, peptide,
   polypeptide, modified peptides, modified oligonucleotides, oligonucleotide,
20 polynucleotide, synthetic molecule, natural molecule, organic or inorganic molecule, or
   combinations thereof.
               In other aspects, the one or more target molecules associated with Perforin-2
   expression, function or activity is from an infectious organism. In some embodiments,
   the infectious organism is a bacterium. In specific embodiments, the bacterium can be
25 Salmonella typhimurium or Escherichiacoli. In yet other embodiments, the one or more
   target molecules can be PhoP or deamidase.
           In such cases where the one or more target molecules associated with Perforin-2
   expression, function or activity are from an infectious organism, downregulation of the
   expression, function or activity of one or more target molecules can upregulate the
30 expression, function or activity of Perforin-2. Alternatively, upregulation of the
   expression, function or activity of one or more target molecules can downregulate the
   expression, function or activity of Perforin-2.
               Another aspect of the invention relates to methods of screening for
   compounds or candidate therapeutic agents which modulate the expression, function or
                                                      16

    activity of molecules which in turn modulate the expression, function or activity of
    Perforin 2. The compounds may, for example, induce a cell to express Perforin 2
    protein, allow for assembly of the P2, allow for correct assembly, allow for the
    translocation of the P2, etc. Preferred candidate therapeutic agents increase P2
 5  expression in immunological cells such as macrophages which will enhance their anti
    microbial efficacy.
                 As such, these embodiments are directed to methods for screening
    compounds that are effective in increasing expression, function or activity of P2, such as
    for example, increasing translation of P2 mRNAs in cells. Preferably, such compounds
10 will target molecules associated with P2. In its most basic form, such methods involve
    exposing cells that express certain target molecules and an endogenous or exogenous
   Perforin 2 gene or cDNA, respectively, with a test compound and determining whether
   an increase in Perforin 2 protein production results.
                In one embodiment, a method of identifying a candidate therapeutic agent
15 comprising: contacting a cell expressing one or more target molecules comprising: src,
   ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2M, GAPDH, P21RAS/gaplm, Galectin 3, ubiquitin C
   (UCHL 1), proteasomes, or fragments thereof; measuring the expression, function or
   activity of the molecules; comparing the expression, function or activity of the molecules
   with a control. Preferably, the candidate therapeutic agent modulates the expression,
20 function or activity of one or more of the target molecules. In other embodiments, the
   candidate therapeutic agent modulates the expression, function or activity of a plurality
   of target molecules. Preferably, the candidate therapeutic agent upregulates the
   expression, function or activity of one or more of the target molecules. In some aspects,
   the candidate therapeutic agent downregulates the expression, function or activity of one
25 or more of the target molecules.
                In preferred embodiments, the modulation of the expression, function or
   activity of one or more target molecules modulates the expression, function or activity of
   Perforin-2 (P2) molecules. Preferably, the upregulation of the expression, function or
   activity of one or more target molecules upregulates the expression, function or activity
30 of Perforin-2 (P2) molecules. In some aspects, the downregulation of the expression,
   function or activity of one or more target molecules downregulates the expression,
   function or activity of Perforin-2 (P2) molecules.
                In another embodiment, the method of identifying a candidate agent that
   modulates expression, function or activity of Perforin-2 comprises: contacting an assay
                                                     17

   surface with one or more target molecules comprising src, ubiquitin conjugating enzyme
   E2M, GAPDH, P21RAS/gaplm, Galectin 3, ubiquitin C (UCHL1), proteasomes, vps34,
   ATG5, ATG7, ATG9L1, ATG14L, ATG16L, LC3, Rab5, PhoP, deamidase, fragments
   or associated molecules thereof; contacting the target molecules with one or more
 5 candidate agents and identifying the agents which bind or hybridize to one or more target
   molecules or associated molecules thereof; and assaying the one or more candidate
   agents for modulation of expression, function or activity of Perforin-2, thereby
   identifying a candidate agent.
                Once a therapeutic agent is deemed to be a candidate by measuring its effects
10 on the target molecules, the agent is further screened against Perforin-2 molecules.
   These could be by peptides or oligonucleotides disposed on an assay surface, for
   example, a biochip, or it could be in the form of cells which express P2. Preferred
   candidate therapeutic agent upregulates the expression, function, or activity of P2
   molecules and also increase the killing of infectious organisms such as bacteria. In
15 some aspects, an identified candidate therapeutic agent downregulates the expression,
   function, or activity of P2 molecules.
               In other embodiments, the assays for assaying the expression, function or
   activity of P2 molecules comprise: cellular assays, immuno-assays, yeast hybrid system
   assays, hybridization assays, nucleic acid based assays, high-throughput screening assays
20 or combinations thereof. In some aspects, the identified candidate agents are also
   assayed for inhibition of replication, inhibition of growth, or death of an infectious
   organism., e.g. bacteria.
               In methods where cells are used, a control cell, a test cell comprising one or
   more vectors expressing a target molecule, cells whereby the target molecules are
25 endogenous, cells having a Perforin 2 expression vector, or any combination, are
   provided. In this method, the test cell is contacted with a test compound, whereas the
   control cell is not. The technician can then identify test compounds as potential
   therapeutic agents if when the test cell produces more reporter protein than the control
   cell grown in the absence of the test compound, if the expression of the target molecule
30 is used as the output readout parameter for identifying a potential or candidate
   therapeutic agent. Such test compounds are presumed to be effective antibiotic or even
   anti-cancer compounds that potentiate the body's own immune system in its fight against
   microbes and tumor cells. The test can also include a further determination at a
                                                     18

    functional level, by which cells are then tested for their ability to either kill microbes
    such as bacteria in co-culture.
                 Examples of infectious bacteria comprise without limitation: Escherichiacoli,
    EnteropathogenicE. coil (EPEC), Methicillin-resistantStaphylococcus aureus (MRSA),
 5  Mycobacterium avium intracellulare(M avium), Salmonella typhimurium (S.
    typhimurium), Helicobacterpylori, Borreliaburgdorferi,Legionellapneumophila,
    Mycobacterium tuberculosis,Mycobacterium bovis (BCG), Mycobacterium avium,
    Mycobacterium smegmatis, Mycobacterium intracellulare,Staphylococcus aureus,
    Neisseria gonorrhoeae,Neisseria meningitidis,Listeriamonocytogenes, Streptococcus
10 pyogenes, Streptococcuspneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catharralis,
    Klebsiellapneumoniae, Bacillus anthracis,Corynebacteriumdiphtheriae,Clostridium
   perfringens,Clostridium tetani, Enterobacteraerogenes, Klebsiellapneumoniae,
    Pasturellamultocida, Escherichiacoli (E.coli) and Treponemapallidum; infectious
    fungi like: Cryptococcus neoformans, Histoplasmacapsulatum, Coccidioidesimmitis,
15  Blastomyces dermatitidis,Candidaalbicans; and infectious protists like: Plasmodium
   falciparum, Trypanosoma cruzi, Leishmania donovani and Toxoplasma gondii; as well
    as infectious fungi such as those causing e.g., histoplasmosis, candidiasis,
    cryptococcosis, blastomycosis and eocidiodomycosis; as well as Candida spp. (i.e., C.
    albicans, C. parapsilosis,C. krusei, C. glabrata,C. tropicalis,or C. lusitaniae);
20  Torulopus spp. (i.e., T. glabrata);Aspergillus spp. (i.e., A. fumigalus), Histoplasma spp.
    (i.e., H. capsulatum); Cryptococcus spp. (i.e., C. neoformans); Blastomyces spp. (i.e., B.
    dermatilidis);Fusarium spp.; Trichophyton spp., Pseudallescheriaboydii, Coccidioides
    immits, and Sporothrix schenekii.
25  ScreeningAssays
                 The assay for drug screening for Perforin 2 (P2) expression, function, or
    activity of P2 is based on the identification of molecules which increase or decrease the
    antibacterial effects of P2. As such, any molecule which affects any of the molecules
    which interact and affect the antibacterial activity of P2, would be candidate agents for
30  therapy.
                 In one embodiment, screening comprises contacting each cell culture
    expressing the target molecules with a diverse library of member compounds. The
    compounds or "candidate therapeutic agents" or "agents" can be any organic, inorganic,
                                                       19

   small molecule, protein, antibody, aptamer, nucleic acid molecule, or synthetic
   compound.
                Candidate agents include numerous chemical classes, though typically they
   are organic compounds including small organic compounds, nucleic acids including
 5 oligonucleotides, and peptides. Small organic compounds suitably may have e.g. a
   molecular weight of more than about 40 or 50 yet less than about 2,500. Candidate
   agents may comprise functional chemical groups that interact with proteins and/or DNA.
                Candidate agents may be obtained from a wide variety of sources including
   libraries of synthetic or natural compounds. For example, numerous means are available
10 for random and directed synthesis of a wide variety of organic compounds and
   biomolecules, including expression of randomized oligonucleotides. Alternatively,
   libraries of natural compounds in the form of e.g. bacterial, fungal and animal extracts
   are available or readily produced.
                Chemical Libraries:Developments in combinatorial chemistry allow the
15 rapid and economical synthesis of hundreds to thousands of discrete compounds. These
   compounds are typically arrayed in moderate-sized libraries of small molecules designed
   for efficient screening. Combinatorial methods, can be used to generate unbiased
   libraries suitable for the identification of novel compounds. In addition, smaller, less
   diverse libraries can be generated that are descended from a single parent compound with
20 a previously determined biological activity. In either case, the lack of efficient screening
   systems to specifically target therapeutically relevant biological molecules produced by
   combinational chemistry such as inhibitors of important enzymes hampers the optimal
   use of these resources.
               A combinatorial chemical library is a collection of diverse chemical
25 compounds generated by either chemical synthesis or biological synthesis, by combining
   a number of chemical "building blocks," such as reagents. For example, a linear
   combinatorial chemical library, such as a polypeptide library, is formed by combining a
   set of chemical building blocks (amino acids) in a large number of combinations, and
   potentially in every possible way, for a given compound length (i.e., the number of
30 amino acids in a polypeptide compound). Millions of chemical compounds can be
   synthesized through such combinatorial mixing of chemical building blocks.
               A "library" may comprise from 2 to 50,000,000 diverse member compounds.
   Preferably, a library comprises at least 48 diverse compounds, preferably 96 or more
   diverse compounds, more preferably 384 or more diverse compounds, more preferably,
                                                      20

    10,000 or more diverse compounds, preferably more than 100,000 diverse members and
   most preferably more than 1,000,000 diverse member compounds. By "diverse" it is
   meant that greater than 50% of the compounds in a library have chemical structures that
   are not identical to any other member of the library. Preferably, greater than 75% of the
 5 compounds in a library have chemical structures that are not identical to any other
   member of the collection, more preferably greater than 90% and most preferably greater
   than about 99%.
                The preparation of combinatorial chemical libraries is well known to those of
   skill in the art. For reviews, see Thompson et al., Synthesis and application of small
10 molecule libraries, Chem Rev 96:555-600, 1996; Kenan et al., Exploring molecular
   diversity with combinatorial shape libraries, Trends Biochem Sci 19:57-64, 1994; Janda,
   Tagged versus untagged libraries: methods for the generation and screening of
   combinatorial chemical libraries, ProcNatl Acad Sci USA. 91:10779-85, 1994; Lebl et
   al., One-bead-one-structure combinatorial libraries, Biopolymers 37:177-98, 1995;
15 Eichler et al., Peptide, peptidomimetic, and organic synthetic combinatorial libraries,
   Med Res Rev. 15:481-96, 1995; Chabala, Solid-phase combinatorial chemistry and novel
   tagging methods for identifying leads, Curr Opin Biotechnol. 6:632-9, 1995; Dolle,
   Discovery of enzyme inhibitors through combinatorial chemistry, Mol Divers. 2:223-36,
    1997; Fauchere et al., Peptide and nonpeptide lead discovery using robotically
20 synthesized soluble libraries, Can J. Physiol Pharmacol. 75:683-9, 1997; Eichler et al.,
   Generation and utilization of synthetic combinatorial libraries, Mol Med Today 1: 174
   80, 1995; and Kay et al., Identification of enzyme inhibitors from phage-displayed
   combinatorial peptide libraries, Comb Chem High Throughput Screen 4:535-43, 2001.
                Other chemistries for generating chemical diversity libraries can also be used
25  . Such chemistries include, but are not limited to, peptoids (PCT Publication No. WO
   91/19735); encoded peptides (PCT Publication WO 93/20242); random bio-oligomers
   (PCT Publication No. WO 92/00091); benzodiazepines (U.S. Pat. No. 5,288,514);
   diversomers, such as hydantoins, benzodiazepines and dipeptides (Hobbs, et al., Proc.
   Nat. Acad Sci. USA, 90:6909-6913 (1993)); vinylogous polypeptides (Hagihara, et al.,
30 J Amer. Chem. Soc. 114:6568 (1992)); nonpeptidal peptidomimetics with p-D-glucose
   scaffolding (Hirschmann, et al., J Amer. Chem. Soc., 114:9217-9218 (1992)); analogous
   organic syntheses of small compound libraries (Chen, et al., J Amer. Chem. Soc.,
    116:2661 (1994)); oligocarbamates (Cho, et al., Science, 261:1303 (1993)); and/or
   peptidyl phosphonates (Campbell, et al., J Org. Chem. 59:658 (1994)); nucleic acid
                                                      21

   libraries (see, Ausubel, Berger and Sambrook, all supra); peptide nucleic acid libraries
   (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,539,083); antibody libraries (see, e.g., Vaughn, et al., Nature
   Biotechnology, 14(3):309-314 (1996) and PCT/US96/10287); carbohydrate libraries (see,
   e.g., Liang, et al., Science, 274:1520-1522 (1996) and U.S. Pat. No. 5,593,853); small
 5 organic molecule libraries (see, e.g., benzodiazepines, Baum C&E News, January 18,
   page 33 (1993); isoprenoids (U.S. Pat. No. 5,569,588); thiazolidinones and
   metathiazanones (U.S. Pat. No. 5,549,974); pyrrolidines (U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,525,735 and
   5,519,134); morpholino compounds (U.S. Pat. No. 5,506,337); benzodiazepines (U.S.
   Pat. No. 5,288,514); and the like.
10              Devices for the preparation of combinatorial libraries are commercially
   available (see, e.g., 357 MPS, 390 MPS, Advanced Chem. Tech, Louisville Ky.,
   Symphony, Rainin, Woburn, Mass., 433A Applied Biosystems, Foster City, Calif., 9050
   Plus, Millipore, Bedford, Mass.). In addition, numerous combinatorial libraries are
   themselves commercially available (see, e.g., ComGenex, Princeton, N.J., Asinex,
15 Moscow, Ru, Tripos, Inc., St. Louis, Mo., ChemStar, Ltd., Moscow, RU, 3D
   Pharmaceuticals, Exton, Pa., Martek Bio sciences, Columbia, Md., etc.).
                Small Molecules: Small molecule test compounds can initially be members of
   an organic or inorganic chemical library. As used herein, "small molecules" refers to
   small organic or inorganic molecules of molecular weight below about 3,000 Daltons.
20 The small molecules can be natural products or members of a combinatorial chemistry
   library. A set of diverse molecules should be used to cover a variety of functions such as
   charge, aromaticity, hydrogen bonding, flexibility, size, length of side chain,
   hydrophobicity, and rigidity. Combinatorial techniques suitable for synthesizing small
   molecules are known in the art, e.g., as exemplified by Obrecht and Villalgordo, Solid
25 Supported Combinatorial and Parallel Synthesis of Small-Molecular-Weight Compound
   Libraries, Pergamon-Elsevier Science Limited (1998), and include those such as the
   "split and pool" or "parallel" synthesis techniques, solid-phase and solution-phase
   techniques, and encoding techniques (see, for example, Czarnik, Curr. Opin. Chem. Bio.,
   1:60 (1997). In addition, a number of small molecule libraries are commercially
30 available.
                In a preferred embodiment, the compounds are assayed against the cells
   comprising either vectors with inducible or noninducible promoters expressing one or
   more of the target molecules and/or P2 as high throughput screening. The cells used can
   also be cells which endogenously express the target molecules and/or P2. The reporter
                                                     22

   molecules can be the same or different molecules, however, the reporter molecules are
   preferably different.
                In another aspect, the present invention provides a method for analyzing cells
   comprising providing an array of locations which contain multiple cells wherein the cells
 5 contain one or more fluorescent or luciferase reporter molecules; scanning multiple cells
   in each of the locations containing cells to obtain signals from the reporter molecule in
   the cells; converting the signals into digital data; and utilizing the digital data to
   determine the distribution, environment or activity of the reporter molecule within the
   cells.
10              A major component of the new drug discovery paradigm is a continually
   growing family of fluorescent and luminescent reagents that are used to measure the
   temporal and spatial distribution, content, and activity of intracellular ions, metabolites,
   macromolecules, and organelles. Classes of these reagents include labeling reagents that
   measure the distribution and amount of molecules in living and fixed cells,
15 environmental indicators to report signal transduction events in time and space, and
   fluorescent protein biosensors to measure target molecular activities within living cells.
   A multiparameter approach that combines several reagents in a single cell is a powerful
   new tool for drug discovery.
                This method relies on the high affinity of fluorescent or luminescent
20 molecules for specific cellular components. The affinity for specific components is
   governed by physical forces such as ionic interactions, covalent bonding (which includes
   chimeric fusion with protein-based chromophores, fluorophores, and lumiphores), as
   well as hydrophobic interactions, electrical potential, and, in some cases, simple
   entrapment within a cellular component. The luminescent probes can be small
25 molecules, labeled macromolecules, or genetically engineered proteins, including, but
   not limited to green fluorescent protein chimeras.
                Those skilled in this art will recognize a wide variety of fluorescent reporter
   molecules that can be used in the present invention, including, but not limited to,
   fluorescently labeled biomolecules such as proteins, phospholipids, RNA and DNA
30 hybridizing probes. Similarly, fluorescent reagents specifically synthesized with
   particular chemical properties of binding or association have been used as fluorescent
   reporter molecules (Barak et al., (1997), J. Biol. Chem. 272:27497-27500; Southwick et
   al., (1990), Cytometry 11:418-430; Tsien (1989) in Methods in Cell Biology, Vol. 29
   Taylor and Wang (eds.), pp. 127-156). Fluorescently labeled antibodies are particularly
                                                       23

    useful reporter molecules due to their high degree of specificity for attaching to a single
    molecular target in a mixture of molecules as complex as a cell or tissue.
                 The luminescent probes can be synthesized within the living cell or can be
    transported into the cell via several non-mechanical modes including diffusion,
 5  facilitated or active transport, signal-sequence-mediated transport, and endocytotic or
    pinocytotic uptake. Mechanical bulk loading methods, which are well known in the art,
    can also be used to load luminescent probes into living cells (Barber et al. (1996),
   Neuroscience Letters 207:17-20; Bright et al. (1996), Cytometry 24:226-233; McNeil
    (1989) in Methods in Cell Biology, Vol. 29, Taylor and Wang (eds.), pp. 153-173).
10  These methods include electroporation and other mechanical methods such as scrape
    loading, bead-loading, impact-loading, syringe-loading, hypertonic and hypotonic
    loading. Additionally, cells can be genetically engineered to express reporter molecules,
    such as GFP, coupled to a protein of interest as previously described (Chalfie and
    Prasher U.S. Pat. No. 5,491,084; Cubitt et al. (1995), Trends in Biochemical Science
15  20:448-455).
                 Once in the cell, the luminescent probes accumulate at their target domain as
    a result of specific and high affinity interactions with the target domain or other modes of
   molecular targeting such as signal-sequence-mediated transport. Fluorescently labeled
   reporter molecules are useful for determining the location, amount and chemical
20 environment of the reporter. For example, whether the reporter is in a lipophilic
   membrane environment or in a more aqueous environment can be determined (Giuliano
   et al. (1995), Ann. Rev. of Biophysics and BiomolecularStructure 24:405-434; Giuliano
   and Taylor (1995), Methods in Neuroscience 27.1-16). The pH environment of the
   reporter can be determined (Bright et al. (1989), J. Cell Biology 104:1019-1033;
25 Giuliano et al. (1987), Anal. Biochem. 167:362-37 1). It can be determined whether a
   reporter having a chelating group is bound to an ion, such as Ca+*, or not (Bright et al.
   (1989), In Methods in Cell Biology, Vol. 30, Taylor and Wang (eds.), pp. 157-192;
   Shimoura et al. (1988), J. of Biochemistry (Tokyo) 251:405-410; Tsien (1989) In
   Methods in Cell Biology, Vol. 30, Taylor and Wang (eds.), pp. 127-156).
30              Furthermore, certain cell types within an organism may contain components
   that can be specifically labeled that may not occur in other cell types. Therefore, reporter
   molecules can be designed to label not only specific components within specific cells,
   but also specific cells within a population of mixed cell types.
                                                       24

               Those skilled in the art will recognize a wide variety of ways to measure
   fluorescence. For example, some fluorescent reporter molecules exhibit a change in
   excitation or emission spectra, some exhibit resonance energy transfer where one
   fluorescent reporter loses fluorescence, while a second gains in fluorescence, some
 5 exhibit a loss (quenching) or appearance of fluorescence, while some report rotational
   movements (Giuliano et al. (1995), Ann. Rev. of Biophysics and Biomol. Structure
   24:405-434; Giuliano et al. (1995), Methods in Neuroscience 27:1-16).
               The whole procedure can be fully automated. For example, sampling of
   sample materials may be accomplished with a plurality of steps, which include
10 withdrawing a sample from a sample container and delivering at least a portion of the
   withdrawn sample to test cell culture (e.g., a cell culture wherein gene expression is
   regulated). Sampling may also include additional steps, particularly and preferably,
   sample preparation steps. In one approach, only one sample is withdrawn into the auto
   sampler probe at a time and only one sample resides in the probe at one time. In other
15 embodiments, multiple samples may be drawn into the auto-sampler probe separated by
   solvents. In still other embodiments, multiple probes may be used in parallel for auto
   sampling.
               In the general case, sampling can be effected manually, in a semi-automatic
   manner or in an automatic manner. A sample can be withdrawn from a sample container
20 manually, for example, with a pipette or with a syringe-type manual probe, and then
   manually delivered to a loading port or an injection port of a characterization system. In
   a semi-automatic protocol, some aspect of the protocol is effected automatically (e.g.,
   delivery), but some other aspect requires manual intervention (e.g., withdrawal of
   samples front a process control line). Preferably, however, the sample(s) are withdrawn
25 from a sample container and delivered to the characterization system, in a fully
   automated manner--for example, with an auto-sampler.
               According to the present invention, one or more systems, methods or both are
   used to identify a plurality of sample materials. Though manual or semi-automated
   systems and methods are possible, preferably an automated system or method is
30 employed. A variety of robotic or automatic systems are available for automatically or
   programmably providing predetermined motions for handling, contacting, dispensing, or
   otherwise manipulating materials in solid, fluid liquid or gas form according to a
   predetermined protocol. Such systems may be adapted or augmented to include a variety
   of hardware, software or both to assist the systems in determining mechanical properties
                                                     25

   of materials. Hardware and software for augmenting the robotic systems may include,
   but are not limited to, sensors, transducers, data acquisition and manipulation hardware,
   data acquisition and manipulation software and the like. Exemplary robotic systems are
   commercially available from CAVRO Scientific Instruments (e.g., Model NO. RSP9652)
 5 or BioDot (Microdrop Model 3000).
               Generally, the automated system includes a suitable protocol design and
   execution software that can be programmed with information such as synthesis,
   composition, location information or other information related to a library of materials
   positioned with respect to a substrate. The protocol design and execution software is
10 typically in communication with robot control software for controlling a robot or other
   automated apparatus or system. The protocol design and execution software is also in
   communication with data acquisition hardware/software for collecting data from
   response measuring hardware. Once the data is collected in the database, analytical
   software may be used to analyze the data, and more specifically, to determine properties
15 of the candidate drugs, or the data may be analyzed manually.
   PharmaceuticalCompositions
           Further provided are methods of treating a subject suffering from infection by an
   infectious disease organism comprising administration of a therapeutically effective
20 amount of an agent which modulates the expression, function or activity of Perforin-2 or
   modulates the expression, function or activity of one or more target molecules associated
   with Perforin-2 expression, function or activity.
               In preferred embodiments, a method of treating a patient suffering from an
   infectious disease organism comprises administering to the patient a therapeutically
25 effective amount of an agent which modulates the expression, function or activity of one
   or more target molecules comprising: src, ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2M (Ubc12),
   GAPDH, P21RAS/gapIm (RASA2), Galectin 3, ubiquitin C (UCHL1), proteasomes,
   vps34, ATG5, ATG7, ATG9L1, ATG14L, ATG16L, LC3, Rab5, Perforin-2, fragments
   or associated molecules thereof.
30         Active variants and fragments of src, ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2M
   (Ubcl2), GAPDH, P21RAS/gaplm (RASA2), Galectin 3, ubiquitin C (UCHL1),
   proteasomes, vps34, ATG5, ATG7, ATG9L1, ATG14L, ATG16L, LC3, Rab5, Perforin
   2 or any associated molecules thereof can be used in the methods provided herein. Such
   active variants can comprise at least 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%,
                                                     26

   94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more sequence identity to any of the various target
   molecules provided herein, wherein the active variants retain biological activity and
   hence modulate Perforin-2 expression, function or activity.
                In another preferred embodiment, a compound comprises a therapeutic agent
 5 identified by the methods embodied herein.
                The invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions containing one or
   more of the therapeutic agents. In some embodiments, the compositions are suitable for
   internal use and include an effective amount of a pharmacologically active agent of the
   invention, alone or in combination, with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
10 carriers. The agents are especially useful in that they have very low, if any toxicity. The
   patient having a pathology, e.g. the patient treated by the methods of this invention can
   be a mammal, or more particularly, a human. In practice, the agents, are administered in
   amounts which will be sufficient to exert their desired biological activity.
                The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may contain, for example,
15 more than one agent which may act independently of the other on a different target
   molecule. In some examples, a pharmaceutical composition of the invention, containing
   one or more compounds of the invention, is administered in combination with another
   useful composition such as an anti-inflammatory agent, an immunostimulator, a
   chemotherapeutic agent, an antibacterial agent, or the like. Furthermore, the
20 compositions of the invention may be administered in combination with a cytotoxic,
   cytostatic, or chemotherapeutic agent such as an alkylating agent, anti-metabolite,
   mitotic inhibitor or cytotoxic antibiotic, as described above. In general, the currently
   available dosage forms of the known therapeutic agents for use in such combinations will
   be suitable.
25              Combination therapy (or "co-therapy") includes the administration of a
   therapeutic composition and at least a second agent as part of a specific treatment
   regimen intended to provide the beneficial effect from the co-action of these therapeutic
   agents. The beneficial effect of the combination includes, but is not limited to,
   pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic coactions resulting from the combination of
30 therapeutic agents. Administration of these therapeutic agents in combination typically
   is carried out over a defined time period (usually minutes, hours, days or weeks
   depending upon the combination selected).
                Combination therapy may, but generally is not, intended to encompass the
   administration of two or more of these therapeutic agents as part of separate
                                                     27

   monotherapy regimens that incidentally and arbitrarily result in the combinations of the
   present invention. Combination therapy is intended to embrace administration of these
   therapeutic agents in a sequential manner, that is, wherein each therapeutic agent is
   administered at a different time, as well as administration of these therapeutic agents, or
 5 at least two of the therapeutic agents, in a substantially simultaneous manner.
   Substantially simultaneous administration can be accomplished, for example, by
   administering to the subject a single capsule having a fixed ratio of each therapeutic
   agent or in multiple, single capsules for each of the therapeutic agents. Sequential or
   substantially simultaneous administration of each therapeutic agent can be effected by
10 any appropriate route including, but not limited to, topical routes, oral routes,
   intravenous routes, intramuscular routes, and direct absorption through mucous
   membrane tissues. The therapeutic agents can be administered by the same route or by
   different routes. For example, a first therapeutic agent of the combination selected may
   be administered by injection while the other therapeutic agents of the combination may
15 be administered topically.
                The agents can be formulated according to known methods to prepare
   pharmaceutically useful compositions, whereby the compound is combined in admixture
   with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle. Therapeutic formulations are
   prepared for storage by mixing the active ingredient having the desired degree of purity
20 with optional physiologically acceptable carriers, excipients or stabilizers (Remington's
   Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition, Osol, A. Ed. (1980)), in the form of lyophilized
   formulations or aqueous solutions. Acceptable carriers, excipients or stabilizers are
   nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed, and include buffers
   such as phosphate, citrate and other organic acids; antioxidants including ascorbic acid;
25 low molecular weight (less than about 10 residues) polypeptides; proteins, such as serum
   albumin, gelatin or immunoglobulins; hydrophilic polymers such as
   polyvinylpyrrolidone, amino acids such as glycine, glutamine, asparagine, arginine or
   lysine; monosaccharides, disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose,
   mannose, or dextrins; chelating agents such as EDTA; sugar alcohols such as mannitol or
30 sorbitol; salt-forming counterions such as sodium; and/or nonionic surfactants such as
   TWEEN       . (ICI Americas Inc., Bridgewater, N.J.), PLURONICSM. (BASF
   Corporation, Mount Olive, N.J.) or PEG.
                                                     28

                The formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile and
   pyrogen free. This is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration
   membranes, prior to or following lyophilization and reconstitution.
                The route of administration is in accord with known methods, e.g. injection or
 5 infusion by intravenous, intraperitoneal, intracerebral, intramuscular, intraocular,
   intraarterial or intralesional routes, topical administration, or by sustained release
   systems.
                Dosages and desired drug concentrations of pharmaceutical compositions of
   the present invention may vary depending on the particular use envisioned. The
10 determination of the appropriate dosage or route of administration is well within the skill
   of an ordinary physician. Animal experiments provide reliable guidance for the
   determination of effective doses for human therapy. Interspecies scaling of effective
   doses can be performed following the principles laid down by Mordenti, J. and Chappell,
   W. "The use of interspecies scaling in toxicokinetics" In Toxicokinetics and New Drug
15 Development, Yacobi et al., Eds., Pergamon Press, New York 1989, pp. 42-96.
                Formulations for oral administration in the present invention may be
   presented as: discrete units such as capsules, cachets or tablets each containing a
   predetermined amount of the active agent; as a powder or granules; as a solution or a
   suspension of the active agent in an aqueous liquid or a non-aqueous liquid; or as an oil
20 in-water liquid emulsion or a water in oil liquid emulsion; or as a bolus etc.
                For compositions for oral administration (e.g. tablets and capsules), the term
   "acceptable carrier" includes vehicles such as common excipients e.g. binding agents, for
   example syrup, acacia, gelatin, sorbitol, tragacanth, polyvinylpyrrolidone (Povidone),
   methylcellulose, ethylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose,
25 hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, sucrose and starch; fillers and carriers, for example corn
   starch, gelatin, lactose, sucrose, microcrystalline cellulose, kaolin, mannitol, dicalcium
   phosphate, sodium chloride and alginic acid; and lubricants such as magnesium stearate,
   sodium stearate and other metallic stearates, glycerol stearate stearic acid, silicone fluid,
   talc waxes, oils and colloidal silica. Flavoring agents such as peppermint, oil of
30 wintergreen, cherry flavoring and the like can also be used. It may be desirable to add a
   coloring agent to make the dosage form readily identifiable. Tablets may also be coated
   by methods well known in the art.
                A tablet may be made by compression or molding, optionally with one or
   more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a
                                                      29

   suitable machine the active agent in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules,
   optionally mixed with a binder, lubricant, inert diluent, preservative, surface-active or
   dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a
   mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets
 5 may be optionally be coated or scored and may be formulated so as to provide slow or
   controlled release of the active agent.
                Other formulations suitable for oral administration include lozenges
   comprising the active agent in a flavored base, usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth;
   pastilles comprising the active agent in an inert base such as gelatin and glycerin, or
10 sucrose and acacia; and mouthwashes comprising the active agent in a suitable liquid
   carrier.
                Parenteral formulations will generally be sterile.
            Controlled or sustained release compositions include formulation in lipophilic
   depots (e.g. fatty acids, waxes, oils). Also comprehended herein are particulate
15 compositions coated with polymers (e.g. poloxamers or poloxamines) and the compound
   coupled to antibodies directed against tissue-specific receptors, ligands or antigens or
   coupled to ligands of tissue-specific receptors. Other embodiments of the compositions
   presented herein incorporate particulate forms protective coatings, protease inhibitors or
   permeation enhancers for various routes of administration, including parenteral,
20 pulmonary, nasal and oral.
            When administered, compounds are often cleared rapidly from mucosal surfaces
   or the circulation and may therefore elicit relatively short-lived pharmacological activity.
   Consequently, frequent administrations of relatively large doses of bioactive compounds
   may be required to sustain therapeutic efficacy. Compounds modified by the covalent
25 attachment of water-soluble polymers such as polyethylene glycol, copolymers of
   polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol, carboxymethyl cellulose, dextran,
   polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinylpyrrolidone or polyproline are known to exhibit substantially
   longer half-lives in blood following intravenous injection than do the corresponding
   unmodified compounds. Such modifications may also increase the compound's
30 solubility in aqueous solution, eliminate aggregation, enhance the physical and chemical
   stability of the compound, and greatly reduce the immunogenicity and reactivity of the
   compound. As a result, the desired in vivo biological activity may be achieved by the
   administration of such polymer-compound abducts less frequently or in lower doses than
   with the unmodified compound.
                                                      30

           The sufficient amount may include but is not limited to from about 1 pg/kg to
   about 100 tg/kg, from about 100 pg/kg to about 1 mg/kg, from about 1 mg/kg to about
   10 mg/kg, about 10 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, from about 100 mg/kg to about 500
   mg/kg or from about 500 mg/kg to about 1000 mg/kg. The amount may be 10 mg/kg.
 5 The pharmaceutically acceptable form of the composition includes a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier.
           The preparation of therapeutic compositions which contain an active component
   is well understood in the art. Typically, such compositions are prepared as an aerosol of
   the polypeptide delivered to the nasopharynx or as injectables, either as liquid solutions
10 or suspensions, however, solid forms suitable for solution in, or suspension in, liquid
   prior to injection can also be prepared. The preparation can also be emulsified. The
   active therapeutic ingredient is often mixed with excipients which are pharmaceutically
   acceptable and compatible with the active ingredient. Suitable excipients are, for
   example, water, saline, dextrose, glycerol, ethanol, or the like and combinations thereof.
15 In addition, if desired, the composition can contain minor amounts of auxiliary
   substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents, pH buffering agents which enhance the
   effectiveness of the active ingredient.
           An active component can be formulated into the therapeutic composition as
   neutralized pharmaceutically acceptable salt forms. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts
20 include the acid addition salts (formed with the free amino groups of the polypeptide)
   and which are formed with inorganic acids such as, for example, hydrochloric or
   phosphoric acids, or such organic acids as acetic, oxalic, tartaric, mandelic, and the like.
   Salts formed from the free carboxyl groups can also be derived from inorganic bases
   such as, for example, sodium, potassium, ammonium, calcium, or ferric hydroxides, and
25 such organic bases as isopropylamine, trimethylamine, 2-ethylamino ethanol, histidine,
   procaine, and the like.
           The component or components of a therapeutic composition provided herein may
   be introduced parenterally, transmucosally, e.g., orally, nasally, pulmonarily, or rectally,
   or transdermally. Preferably, administration is parenteral, e.g., via intravenous injection,
30 and also including, but is not limited to, intra-arteriole, intramuscular, intradermal,
   subcutaneous, intraperitoneal, intraventricular, and intracranial administration. The term
   "unit dose" when used in reference to a therapeutic composition provided herein refers to
   physically discrete units suitable as unitary dosage for humans, each unit containing a
                                                      31

   predetermined quantity of active material calculated to produce the desired therapeutic
   effect in association with the required diluent; i.e., carrier, or vehicle.
            In another embodiment, the active compound can be delivered in a vesicle, in
   particular a liposome (see Langer (1990) Science 249:1527-1533; Treat et al., in
 5 Liposomes in the Therapy of Infectious Disease and Cancer, Lopez-Berestein and Fidler
   (eds.), Liss, New York, pp. 353-365 (1989); Lopez-Berestein, ibid., pp. 317-327; see
   generally ibid).
            In yet another embodiment, the therapeutic compound can be delivered in a
   controlled release system. For example, the protein may be administered using
10 intravenous infusion, an implantable osmotic pump, a transdermal patch, liposomes, or
   other modes of administration. In one embodiment, a pump may be used (see Langer,
   supra; Sefton (1987) CRC Crit. Ref Biomed. Eng. 14:201; Buchwald et al. (1980)
   Surgery 88:507; Saudek et al. (1989) N. Engl. J Med. 321:574). In another embodiment,
   polymeric materials can be used (see Medical Applications of ControlledRelease,
15 Langer and Wise (eds.), CRC Pres., Boca Raton, Florida (1974); ControlledDrug
   Bioavailability,DrugProductDesign and Performance, Smolen and Ball (eds.), Wiley,
   New York (1984); Ranger and Peppas (1983) J Macromol. Sci. Rev. Macromol. Chem.
   23:61; see also Levy et al. (1985) Science 228:190; During et al. (1989) Ann. Neurol.
   25:35 1; Howard et al. (1989) J. Neurosurg. 71:105). In yet another embodiment, a
20 controlled release system can be placed in proximity of the therapeutic target, i.e., the
   brain or a tumor, thus requiring only a fraction of the systemic dose (see, e.g., Goodson,
   in Medical Applications of Controlled Release, supra, vol. 2, pp. 115-138 (1984)). Other
   controlled release systems are discussed in the review by Langer (1990) Science
   249:1527-1533.
25          A subject in whom administration of an active component as set forth above is an
   effective therapeutic regimen for an infection by an infectious disease organism is
   preferably a human, but can be any animal. Thus, as can be readily appreciated by one
   of ordinary skill in the art, the methods and pharmaceutical compositions provided herein
   are particularly suited to administration to any animal, particularly a mammal, and
30 including, but by no means limited to, domestic animals, such as feline or canine
   subjects, farm animals, such as but not limited to bovine, equine, caprine, ovine, and
   porcine subjects, wild animals (whether in the wild or in a zoological garden), research
   animals, such as mice, rats, rabbits, goats, sheep, pigs, dogs, cats, etc., i.e., for veterinary
   medical use.
                                                      32

            In the therapeutic methods and compositions provided herein, a therapeutically
   effective dosage of the active component is provided. A therapeutically effective dosage
   can be determined by the ordinary skilled medical worker based on patient characteristics
   (age, weight, sex, condition, complications, other diseases, etc.), as is well known in the
 5 art. Furthermore, as further routine studies are conducted, more specific information will
   emerge regarding appropriate dosage levels for treatment of various conditions in various
   patients, and the ordinary skilled worker, considering the therapeutic context, age and
   general health of the recipient, is able to ascertain proper dosing. Generally, for
   intravenous injection or infusion, dosage may be lower than for intraperitoneal,
10 intramuscular, or other route of administration. The dosing schedule may vary,
   depending on the circulation half-life, and the formulation used. The compositions are
   administered in a manner compatible with the dosage formulation in the therapeutically
   effective amount. Precise amounts of active ingredient required to be administered
   depend on the judgment of the practitioner and are peculiar to each individual. However,
15 suitable dosages may range from about 0.1 to 20, preferably about 0.5 to about 10, and
   more preferably one to several, milligrams of active ingredient per kilogram body weight
   of individual per day and depend on the route of administration. Suitable regimes for
   initial administration and booster shots are also variable, but are typified by an initial
   administration followed by repeated doses at one or more hour intervals by a subsequent
20 injection or other administration. Alternatively, continuous intravenous infusion
   sufficient to maintain concentrations of ten nanomolar to ten micromolar in the blood are
   contemplated.
            Also contemplated are dry powder formulations comprising at least one protein
   provided herein and another therapeutically effective drug, such as an antibiotic or a
25 chemotherapeutic agent.
            Contemplated for use herein are oral solid dosage forms, which are described
   generally in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 18th Ed. 1990 (Mack Publishing Co.
   Easton PA 18042) at Chapter 89, which is herein incorporated by reference. Solid
   dosage forms include tablets, capsules, pills, troches or lozenges, cachets or pellets.
30 Also, liposomal or proteinoid encapsulation may be used to formulate the present
   compositions (as, for example, proteinoid microspheres reported in U.S. Patent
   No. 4,925,673). Liposomal encapsulation may be used and the liposomes may be
   derivatized with various polymers (e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,013,556). A description of
   possible solid dosage forms for the therapeutic is given by Marshall, K. In: Modern
                                                       33

   PharmaceuticsEdited by G.S. Banker and C.T. Rhodes Chapter 10, 1979, herein
   incorporated by reference. In general, the formulation will include the component or
   components (or chemically modified forms thereof) and inert ingredients which allow for
   protection against the stomach environment, and release of the biologically active
 5 material in the intestine.
           Also specifically contemplated are oral dosage forms of the above derivatized
   component or components. The component or components may be chemically modified
   so that oral delivery of the derivative is efficacious. Generally, the chemical
   modification contemplated is the attachment of at least one moiety to the component
10 molecule itself, where the moiety permits (a) inhibition of proteolysis; and (b) uptake
   into the blood stream from the stomach or intestine. Also desired is the increase in
   overall stability of the component or components and increase in circulation time in the
   body. Examples of such moieties include: polyethylene glycol, copolymers of ethylene
   glycol and propylene glycol, carboxymethyl cellulose, dextran, polyvinyl alcohol,
15 polyvinyl pyrrolidone and polyproline. Abuchowski and Davis (1981) "Soluble
   Polymer-Enzyme Abducts" In: Enzymes as Drugs, Hocenberg and Roberts, eds., Wiley
   Interscience, New York, NY, pp. 367-383; Newmark, et al. (1982) J Appl. Biochem.
   4:185-189. Other polymers that could be used are poly-1,3-dioxolane and poly-1,3,6
   tioxocane. Preferred for pharmaceutical usage, as indicated above, are polyethylene
20 glycol moieties.
           For the component (or derivative) the location of release may be the stomach, the
   small intestine (the duodenum, the jejunum, or the ileum), or the large intestine. One
   skilled in the art has available formulations which will not dissolve in the stomach, yet
   will release the material in the duodenum or elsewhere in the intestine. Preferably, the
25 release will avoid the deleterious effects of the stomach environment, either by
   protection of the protein (or derivative) or by release of the biologically active material
   beyond the stomach environment, such as in the intestine.
           To ensure full gastric resistance a coating impermeable to at least pH 5.0 is
   essential. Examples of the more common inert ingredients that are used as enteric
30 coatings are cellulose acetate trimellitate (CAT), hydroxypropylmethylcellulose
   phthalate (HPMCP), HPMCP 50, HPMCP 55, polyvinyl acetate phthalate (PVAP),
   Eudragit L30D, Aquateric, cellulose acetate phthalate (CAP), Eudragit L, Eudragit S,
   and Shellac. These coatings may be used as mixed films.
                                                       34

           A coating or mixture of coatings can also be used on tablets, which are not
   intended for protection against the stomach. This can include sugar coatings, or coatings
   which make the tablet easier to swallow. Capsules may consist of a hard shell (such as
   gelatin) for delivery of dry therapeutic i.e. powder; for liquid forms, a soft gelatin shell
 5 may be used. The shell material of cachets could be thick starch or other edible paper.
   For pills, lozenges, molded tablets or tablet triturates, moist massing techniques can be
   used.
           The peptide therapeutic can be included in the formulation as fine
   multiparticulates in the form of granules or pellets of particle size about Imm. The
10 formulation of the material for capsule administration could also be as a powder, lightly
   compressed plugs or even as tablets. The therapeutic could be prepared by compression.
           One may dilute or increase the volume of the therapeutic with an inert material.
   These diluents could include carbohydrates, especially mannitol, a-lactose, anhydrous
   lactose, cellulose, sucrose, modified dextran and starch. Certain inorganic salts may be
15 also be used as fillers including calcium triphosphate, magnesium carbonate and sodium
   chloride. Some commercially available diluents are Fast-Flo, Emdex, STA-Rx 1500,
   Emcompress and Avicell.
           Disintegrants may be included in the formulation of the therapeutic into a solid
   dosage form. Materials used as disintegrates include but are not limited to starch,
20 including the commercial disintegrant based on starch, Explotab. Sodium starch
   glycolate, Amberlite, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, ultramylopectin, sodium alginate,
   gelatin, orange peel, acid carboxymethyl cellulose, natural sponge and bentonite may all
   be used. Another form of the disintegrants are the insoluble cationic exchange resins.
   Powdered gums may be used as disintegrants and as binders and these can include
25 powdered gums such as agar, Karaya or tragacanth. Alginic acid and its sodium salt are
   also useful as disintegrants. Binders may be used to hold the therapeutic agent together to
   form a hard tablet and include materials from natural products such as acacia, tragacanth,
   starch and gelatin. Others include methyl cellulose (MC), ethyl cellulose (EC) and
   carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC). Polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP) and
30 hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose (HPMC) could both be used in alcoholic solutions to
   granulate the therapeutic.
           An antifrictional agent may be included in the formulation of the therapeutic to
   prevent sticking during the formulation process. Lubricants may be used as a layer
   between the therapeutic and the die wall, and these can include but are not limited to;
                                                      35

   stearic acid including its magnesium and calcium salts, polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE),
   liquid paraffin, vegetable oils and waxes. Soluble lubricants may also be used such as
   sodium lauryl sulfate, magnesium lauryl sulfate, polyethylene glycol of various
   molecular weights, Carbowax 4000 and 6000.
 5          Glidants that might improve the flow properties of the drug during formulation
   and to aid rearrangement during compression might be added. The glidants may include
   starch, talc, pyrogenic silica and hydrated silicoaluminate.
            To aid dissolution of the therapeutic into the aqueous environment a surfactant
   might be added as a wetting agent. Surfactants may include anionic detergents such as
10 sodium lauryl sulfate, dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate and dioctyl sodium sulfonate.
   Cationic detergents might be used and could include benzalkonium chloride or
   benzethomium chloride. The list of potential nonionic detergents that could be included
   in the formulation as surfactants are lauromacrogol 400, polyoxyl 40 stearate,
   polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil 10, 50 and 60, glycerol monostearate,
15 polysorbate 40, 60, 65 and 80, sucrose fatty acid ester, methyl cellulose and
   carboxymethyl cellulose. These surfactants could be present in the formulation of the
   protein or derivative either alone or as a mixture in different ratios.
            Additives which potentially enhance uptake of the protein (or derivative) are for
   instance the fatty acids oleic acid, linoleic acid and linolenic acid.
20          In one embodiment, the method comprises the use of viruses for administering
   any of the various target molecules associated with Perforin-2 expression, function or
   activity provided herein or any of the various agents provided herein which modulate the
   function or activity of one or more target molecules associated with Perforin-2
   expression, function or activity to a subject. Administration can be by the use of viruses
25 that express any of the target molecules or agents provided herein, such as recombinant
   retroviruses, recombinant adeno-associated viruses, recombinant adenoviruses, and
   recombinant Herpes simplex viruses (see, for example, Mulligan, Science 260:926
   (1993), Rosenberg et al., Science 242:1575 (1988), LaSalle et al., Science 259:988
   (1993), Wolff et al., Science 247:1465 (1990), Breakfield and Deluca, The New Biologist
30 3:203 (1991)).
            A gene encoding any of the various target molecules or agents provided herein
   can be delivered using recombinant viral vectors, including for example, adenoviral
   vectors (e.g., Kass-Eisler et al., Proc.Nat'l Acad Sci. USA 90:11498 (1993), Kolls et al.,
   Proc.Nat'l Acad Sci. USA 91:215 (1994), Li et al., Hum. Gene Ther. 4:403 (1993),
                                                       36

   Vincent et al., Nat. Genet. 5:130 (1993), and Zabner et al., Cell 75:207 (1993)),
   adenovirus-associated viral vectors (Flotte et al., Proc.Nat'l Acad Sci. USA 90:10613
   (1993)), alphaviruses such as Semliki Forest Virus and Sindbis Virus (Hertz and Huang,
   J Vir. 66:857 (1992), Raju and Huang, J Vir. 65:2501 (1991), and Xiong et al., Science
 5 243:1188 (1989)), herpes viral vectors (e.g., U.S. Patent Nos. 4,769,331, 4,859,587,
   5,288,641 and 5,328,688), parvovirus vectors (Koering et al., Hum. Gene Therap. 5:457
   (1994)), pox virus vectors (Ozaki et al., Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 193:653 (1993),
   Panicali and Paoletti, Proc.Nat'l Acad Sci. USA 79:4927 (1982)), pox viruses, such as
   canary pox virus or vaccinia virus (Fisher-Hoch et al., Proc. Nat'l Acad Sci. USA 86:317
10 (1989), and Flexner et al., Ann. N.Y. Acad Sci. 569:86 (1989)), and retroviruses (e.g.,
   Baba et al., J Neurosurg 79:729 (1993), Ram et al., CancerRes. 53:83 (1993),
   Takamiya et al., J. Neurosci. Res 33:493 (1992), Vile and Hart, Cancer Res. 53:962
   (1993), Vile and Hart, Cancer Res. 53:3860 (1993), and Anderson et al., U.S. Patent No.
   5,399,346). Within various embodiments, either the viral vector itself, or a viral particle,
15 which contains the viral vector may be utilized in the methods described below.
            As an illustration of one system, adenovirus, a double-stranded DNA virus, is a
   well-characterized gene transfer vector for delivery of a heterologous nucleic acid
   molecule (for a review, see Becker et al., Meth. Cell Biol. 43:161 (1994); Douglas and
   Curiel, Science & Medicine 4:44 (1997)). The adenovirus system offers several
20 advantages including: (i) the ability to accommodate relatively large DNA inserts, (ii) the
   ability to be grown to high-titer, (iii) the ability to infect a broad range of mammalian
   cell types, and (iv) the ability to be used with many different promoters including
   ubiquitous, tissue specific, and regulatable promoters. In addition, adenoviruses can be
   administered by intravenous injection, because the viruses are stable in the bloodstream.
25          Using adenovirus vectors where portions of the adenovirus genome are deleted,
   inserts are incorporated into the viral DNA by direct ligation or by homologous
   recombination with a co-transfected plasmid. In an exemplary system, the essential El
   gene is deleted from the viral vector, and the virus will not replicate unless the El gene is
   provided by the host cell. When intravenously administered to intact animals,
30 adenovirus primarily targets the liver. Although an adenoviral delivery system with an
   El gene deletion cannot replicate in the host cells, the host's tissue will express and
   process an encoded heterologous protein. Host cells will also secrete the heterologous
   protein if the corresponding gene includes a secretory signal sequence. Secreted proteins
                                                        37

   will enter the circulation from tissue that expresses the heterologous gene (e.g., the
   highly vascularized liver).
            Moreover, adenoviral vectors containing various deletions of viral genes can be
   used to reduce or eliminate immune responses to the vector. Such adenoviruses are El
 5 deleted, and in addition, contain deletions of E2A or E4 (Lusky et al., J Virol. 72:2022
   (1998); Raper et al., Human Gene Therapy 9:671 (1998)). The deletion of E2b has also
   been reported to reduce immune responses (Amalfitano et al., J Virol. 72:926 (1998)).
   By deleting the entire adenovirus genome, very large inserts of heterologous DNA can
   be accommodated. Generation of so called "gutless" adenoviruses, where all viral genes
10 are deleted, are particularly advantageous for insertion of large inserts of heterologous
   DNA (for a review, see Yeh. and Perricaudet, FASEB J. 11:615 (1997)).
            High titer stocks of recombinant viruses capable of expressing a therapeutic gene
   can be obtained from infected mammalian cells using standard methods. For example,
   recombinant herpes simplex virus can be prepared in Vero cells, as described by Brandt
15 et al., J Gen. Virol. 72:2043 (1991), Herold et al., J Gen. Virol. 75:1211 (1994), Visalli
   and Brandt, Virology 185:419 (1991), Grau et al., Invest. Ophthalmol. Vis. Sci. 30:2474
   (1989), Brandt et al., J Virol. Meth. 36:209 (1992), and by Brown and MacLean (eds.),
   HSV Virus Protocols(Humana Press 1997).
            When the subject treated with a recombinant virus is a human, then the therapy is
20 preferably somatic cell gene therapy. That is, the preferred treatment of a human with a
   recombinant virus does not entail introducing into cells a nucleic acid molecule that can
   form part of a human germ line and be passed onto successive generations (i.e., human
   germ line gene therapy).
               Infectious Organisms
25             As used herein, "infectious organisms" can include, but are not limited to, for
   example, bacteria, viruses, fungi, parasites and protozoa.
               Particularly preferred bacteria causing serious human diseases are the Gram
   positive organisms: Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-resistantStaphylococcus aureus
   (MRSA),Staphylococcus epidermidis,Enterococcusfaecalis and E. faecium,
30 Streptococcuspneumoniae and the Gram negative organisms: Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
   Burkholdia cepacia,Xanthomonas maltophila,Escherichiacoli, EnteropathogenicE.
   coil (EPEC), Enterobacterspp, Klebsiellapneumonia, Chlamydia spp., including
   Chlamydia trachomatis,and Salmonella spp.
                                                     38

           In another preferred embodiment, the bacteria are Gram negative bacteria.
   Examples, comprise: Pseudomonasaeruginosa;Burkholdia cepacia;Xanthomonas
   maltophila; Escherichiacoli; Enterobacterspp.; Klebsiellapneumoniae; Salmonella spp.
           The present invention also provides methods for treating diseases include
 5 infections by Mycobacterium spp., Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Entamoeba histolytica;
   Pneumocystis carinii, Trypanosoma cruzi, Trypanosoma brucei, Leishmania mexicana,
   Clostridium histolyticum, Staphylococcus aureus, foot-and-mouth disease virus and
   Crithidiafasciculata;as well as in osteoporosis, autoimmunity, schistosomiasis, malaria,
   tumor metastasis, metachromatic leukodystrophy, muscular dystrophy and amytrophy.
10         Other examples include veterinary and human pathogenic protozoa, intracellular
   active parasites of the phylum Apicomplexa or Sarcomastigophora, Trypanosoma,
   Plasmodia, Leishmania, Babesia and Theileria, Cryptosporidia, Sacrocystida, Amoeba,
   Coccidia and Trichomonadia. These compounds are also suitable for the treatment of
   Malariatropica, caused by, for example, Plasmodiumfalciparum,Malariatertiana,
15 caused by Plasmodium vivax or Plasmodium ovale and for the treatment of Malaria
   quartana,caused by Plasmodium malariae. They are also suitable for the treatment of
   Toxoplasmosis, caused by Toxoplasma gondii, Coccidiosis, caused for instance by
   Isospora belli, intestinal Sarcosporidiosis, caused by Sarcocystissuihominis, dysentery
   caused by Entamoeba histolytica, Cryptosporidiosis, caused by Cryptosporidium
20 parvum, Chagas' disease, caused by Trypanosoma cruzi, sleeping sickness, caused by
   Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense or gambiense, the cutaneous and visceral as well as
   other forms of Leishmaniosis. They are also suitable for the treatment of animals
   infected by veterinary pathogenic protozoa, like Theileriaparva, the pathogen causing
   bovine East coast fever, Trypanosoma congolense congolense or Trypanosoma vivax
25 vivax, Trypanosoma brucei brucei, pathogens causing Nagana cattle disease in Africa,
   Trypanosoma brucei evansi causing Surra, Babesia bigemina,the pathogen causing
   Texas fever in cattle and buffalos, Babesia bovis, the pathogen causing European bovine
   Babesiosis as well as Babesiosis in dogs, cats and sheep, Sarcocystis ovicanis and
   ovifelis pathogens causing Sarcocystiosis in sheep, cattle and pigs, Cryptosporidia,
30 pathogens causing Cryptosporidioses in cattle and birds, Eimeria and Isospora species,
   pathogens causing Coccidiosis in rabbits, cattle, sheep, goats, pigs and birds, especially
   in chickens and turkeys. Rickettsia comprise species such as Rickettsiafelis, Rickettsia
   prowazekii, Rickettsia rickettsii, Rickettsia typhi, Rickettsia conorii,Rickettsia africae
   and cause diseases such as typhus, rickettsialpox, Boutonneuse fever, African Tick Bite
                                                     39

   Fever, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, Australian Tick Typhus, Flinders Island Spotted
   Fever and Queensland Tick Typhus. In the treatment of these diseases, the compounds
   of the present invention may be combined with other agents.
           Particularly preferred fungi causing or associated with human diseases according
 5 to the present invention include (but not restricted to) Candidaalbicans,Histoplasma
   neoformans, Coccidioidesimmitis and Penicilliummarneffei.
                TransgenicAnimals
           The functional activity of Perforin-2 can be evaluated transgenically. In this
10 respect, a transgenic mouse model can be used. The Perforin-2 gene can be used in
   complementation studies employing a transgenic mouse. Transgenic vectors, including
   viral vectors, or cosmid clones (or phage clones) corresponding to the wild type locus of
   a candidate gene, can be constructed using the isolated Perforin-2gene. Cosmids may
   be introduced into transgenic mice using published procedures [Jaenisch (1988) Science
15 240:1468-1474]. In a genetic sense, the transgene acts as a suppressor mutation.
           Alternatively, a transgenic animal model can be prepared in which expression of
   the Perforin-2 gene is disrupted. One standard method to evaluate the phenotypic effect
   of a gene product is to employ knockout technology to delete or inactivate the gene. As
   used herein, the terms "disruption" or "knockout" refer to a partial or complete inhibition
20 of the expression of at least a portion of a protein encoded by a DNA sequence in a cell.
   By "partial" inhibition or inactivation is meant that gene expression is decreased by at
   least 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or more
   as compared to gene expression when the gene is not disrupted (i.e. wild-type). By
   "complete inhibition" is meant that no functional protein is expressed (i.e. 100%
25 inhibition of gene expression).
           A knockout includes both the heterozygous mutant and the homozygous mutant.
   As used herein, a "heterozygous" gene disruption or knockout comprises one defective
   allele and one wild-type allele. A "homozygous" gene disruption or knockout comprises
   two defective alleles. For example, a homozygous knockout mouse comprises disruption
30 of both alleles of a gene and a heterozygous knockout mouse comprises disruption of one
   allele of a gene. As used herein, in reference to a gene or knockout, "wild-type" refers to
   the native, non-mutated or non-disrupted form of a gene.
           Provided herein are transgenic animals in which the Perforin-2 gene has been
   disrupted. In one embodiment, a transgenic mouse which comprises a disruption of a
                                                      40

   gene encoding a Perforin-2 protein is provided. In some embodiments, the disruption of
   the Perforin-2 gene can be heterozygous or homozygous.
           In a specific embodiment, the homozygous disruption inactivates the Perforin-2
   gene and inhibits the expression of a functional Perforin-2 protein in the transgenic
 5 mouse.
           In another embodiment, the gene disruption partially inactivates the Perforin-2
   gene. In a specific embodiment, the gene disruption is heterozygous.
           In such embodiments, a transgenic Perforin-2 knockout mouse exhibits an
   increased susceptibility to infection by intracellular pathogens as compared to a wild
10 type mouse.
           Also provided herein is an organ, a tissue, a cell, or a cell-line derived from a
   transgenic mouse comprising a Perforin-2 gene disruption.
           Alternatively, recombinant techniques can be used to introduce mutations, such
   as nonsense and amber mutations, or mutations that lead to expression of an inactive
15 protein. In another embodiment, Perforin-2genes can be tested by examining their
   phenotypic effects when expressed in antisense orientation in wild-type animals. In this
   approach, expression of the wild-type allele is suppressed, which leads to a mutant
   phenotype. RNAxRNA duplex formation (antisense-sense) prevents normal handling of
   mRNA, resulting in partial or complete elimination of wild-type gene effect. This
20 technique has been used to inhibit TK synthesis in tissue culture and to produce
   phenotypes of the Kruppel mutation in Drosophila,and the Shiverer mutation in mice
   [Izant et al. Cell (1984) 36:1007-1015; Green et al. (1986) Annu. Rev. Biochem. 55:569
   597; Katsuki et al. (1988) Science 241:593-595]. An important advantage of this
   approach is that only a small portion of the gene need be expressed for effective
25 inhibition of expression of the entire cognate mRNA. The antisense transgene will be
   placed under control of its own promoter or another promoter expressed in the correct
   cell type, and placed upstream of the SV40 polyA site. This transgene will be used to
   make transgenic mice, or by using gene knockout technology.
               In this disclosure there is described only the preferred embodiments of the
30 invention and but a few examples of its versatility. It is to be understood that the
   invention is capable of use in various other combinations and environments and is
   capable of changes or modifications within the scope of the inventive concept as
   expressed herein. Thus, for example, those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to
   ascertain, using no more than routine experimentation, numerous equivalents to the
                                                      41

   specific substances and procedures described herein. Such equivalents are considered to
   be within the scope of this invention.
               All publications and patent documents cited in this application are
   incorporated by reference in pertinent part for all purposes to the same extent as if each
 5 individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted. By their
   citation of various references in this document, Applicants do not admit any particular
   reference is "prior art" to their invention.
   Non-limiting examples of methods and compositions disclosed herein are as follows:
10 1. A method of modulating function, activity or expression of Perforin-2 (P2) in vitro or
   in vivo comprising: contacting a cell in vitro or administering to a patient, an effective
   amount of at least one agent which modulates function, activity or expression of one or
   more molecules associated with P2 expression, function or activity; and, modulating the
   function or expression of P2.
15 2. The method of embodiment 1, wherein the one or more molecules associated with P2
   function, activity or expression comprise: src, ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2M,
   GAPDH, P21RAS/gaplm, Galectin 3, ubiquitin C (UCHL1), proteasomes, or fragments
   thereof.
   3. The method of embodiment 2, wherein the P2 expression, function or activity is
20 upregulated by administration of the at least one agent which upregulates the function,
   activity or expression of the one or more molecules associated with P2 function,
   expression or activity.
   4. The method of embodiment 2, wherein the P2 expression, function or activity is
   downregulated by administration of the at least one agent which downregulates the
25 function, activity or expression of the one or more molecules associated with P2
   function, expression or activity.
   5. The method of embodiment 2, wherein the P2 expression, function or activity is
   upregulated by administration of at least one agent which independently upregulates or
   downregulates the function, activity or expression of at least two molecules associated
30 with P2 function, expression or activity.
   6. The method of embodiment 2, wherein the P2 expression, function or activity is
   downregulated by administration of at least one agent which independently upregulates
   or downregulates the function, activity or expression of at least two molecules associated
   with P2 function, expression or activity.
                                                     42

    7. The method of embodiment 2, wherein the P2 expression, function or activity is
    upregulated by administration of a combination of at least two agents which
    independently upregulate or downregulate the function, activity or expression of at least
    two molecules associated with P2 function, expression or activity.
  5 8. The method of embodiment 2, wherein the P2 expression, function or activity is
    downregulated by administration of a combination of at least two agents which
    independently upregulate or downregulate the function, activity or expression of at least
    two molecules associated with P2 function, expression or activity.
    9. The method of embodiment 2, comprising an optional step of administering an agent
 10 which directly modulates expression, function or activity of the P2 molecule.
    10. The method of embodiment 9, wherein the molecule inhibits transcription or
    translation of P2.
     11. The method of embodiment 1, wherein an agent comprises: a small molecule,
    protein, peptide, polypeptide, modified peptides, modified oligonucleotides,
 15 oligonucleotide, polynucleotide, synthetic molecule, natural molecule, organic or
    inorganic molecule, or combinations thereof.
     12. A method of identifying a candidate therapeutic agent comprising: contacting a cell
    expressing one or more target molecules comprising: src, ubiquitin conjugating enzyme
    E2M, GAPDH, P21RAS/gapIm, Galectin 3, ubiquitin C (UCHL1), proteasomes, or
-20 fragments thereof; measuring the expression, function or activity of the molecules;
    comparing the expression, function or activity of the molecules with a control; and,
    identifying a candidate therapeutic agent.
     13. The method of embodiment 12, wherein the candidate therapeutic agent modulates
    the expression, function or activity of one or more of the target molecules.
 25  14. The method of embodiment 12, wherein the candidate therapeutic agent modulates
    the expression, function or activity of a plurality of target molecules.
     15. The method of embodiment 12, wherein the candidate therapeutic agent upregulates
    the expression, function or activity of one or more of the target molecules.
     16. The method of embodiment 12, wherein the candidate therapeutic agent
 30 downregulates the expression, function or activity of one or more of the target molecules.
     17. The method of embodiment 12, wherein the modulation of the expression, function
    or activity of one or more target molecules modulates the expression, function or activity
    of Perforin-2 (P2) molecules.
                                                       43

   18. The method of embodiment 17, wherein the upregulation of the expression, function
   or activity of one or more target molecules upregulates the expression, function or
   activity of Perforin-2 (P2) molecules.
   19. The method of embodiment 17, wherein the downregulation of the expression,
 5 function or activity of one or more target molecules downregulates the expression,
   function or activity of Perforin-2 (P2) molecules.
   20. The method of embodiment 12, wherein the target molecules are polynucleotides or
   expressed products thereof.
   21. A method of identifying a candidate therapeutic agent comprising: contacting an
10 assay surface with one or more target molecules comprising src, ubiquitin conjugating
   enzyme E2M, GAPDH, P21RAS/gaplm, Galectin 3, ubiquitin C (UCHL1),
   proteasomes, fragments or associated molecules thereof; contacting the target molecules
   with one or more candidate therapeutic agents and identifying the agents which bind or
   hybridize to one or more target molecules or associated molecules thereof.
15 22. The method of embodiment 21, wherein the identified candidate therapeutic agents
   are assayed for modulation of expression, function or activity of Perforin-2 molecules.
   23. The method of embodiment 22 , wherein an identified candidate therapeutic agent
   upregulates the expression, function, or activity of P2 molecules.
   24. The method of embodiment 22 , wherein an identified candidate therapeutic agent
20 downregulates the expression, function, or activity of P2 molecules.
   25. The method of embodiment 22, wherein the assays for assaying the expression,
   function or activity of P2 molecules comprise: cellular assays, immuno-assays, yeast
   hybrid system assays, hybridization assays, nucleic acid based assays, high-throughput
   screening assays or combinations thereof.
25 26. The method of embodiment 22, wherein the identified candidate agents are assayed
   for inhibition of replication, inhibition of growth, or death of an infectious organism.
   27. The method of embodiment 26, wherein the infectious organism is an intracellular or
   extracellular bacterium.
   28. A method of treating a patient suffering from an infectious disease organism
30 comprising, administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an agent
   identified by the methods of embodiment 1 or embodiment 21.
   29. A compound identified by the method of embodiment 1 or embodiment 21.
   30. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of embodiment 29.
                                                     44

   31. A method of identifying individuals at risk from pathogenic infections comprising:
   obtaining a patient sample, assaying for one or more molecules comprising: src,
   ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2M, GAPDH, P21RAS/gaplm, Galectin 3, ubiquitin C
   (UCHL1), proteasomes, Perforin-2, fragments or associated molecules thereof; and,
 5 comparing the expression, function or activity with a normal control.
   32. The method of embodiment 31, wherein an individual identified as having
   downregulated expression levels, decreased activity or functions as compared to the
   control, would be prognostic for risk of infection.
   33.A method to identify at least one agent that modulates expression, function or activity
10 of Perforin-2, the method comprising: (a) contacting a cell expressing one or more target
   molecules associated with Perforin-2 expression, function or activity with the at least one
   agent; (b) measuring the expression, function or activity of said one or more target
   molecules associated with Perforin-2 expression, function or activity; and (c) comparing
   the expression, function or activity of said one or more target molecules with a control,
15 wherein contact with the at least one agent modulates the expression, function or activity
   of said one or more target molecules thereby identifying said agent that modulates
   expression, function or activity of Perforin-2.
   34. The method of embodiment 33, wherein the one or more target molecules associated
   with Perforin-2 expression, function or activity comprise: src, ubiquitin conjugating
20 enzyme E2M (Ubc12), GAPDH, P21RAS/gapIm (RASA2), Galectin 3, ubiquitin C
   (UCHLl), proteasomes, vps34, ATG5, ATG7, ATG9L1, ATG14L, ATG16L, LC3,
   Rab5, or fragments thereof.
   35. The method of any one of embodiments 33-34, wherein the at least one agent
   upregulates the expression, function or activity of said one or more target molecules
25 associated with Perforin-2 expression, function or activity.
   36. The method of embodiment 35, wherein the upregulation of the expression, function
   or activity of the one or more target molecules upregulates the expression, function or
   activity of Perforin-2.
   37. The method of any one of embodiments 33-34, wherein the at least one agent
30 downregulates the expression, function or activity of said one or more target molecules
   associated with Perforin-2 expression, function or activity.
   38. The method of embodiment 37, wherein the downregulation of the expression,
   function or activity of the one or more target molecules downregulates the expression,
   function or activity of Perforin-2.
                                                     45

   39. The method of any one of embodiments 33-34, wherein the Perforin-2 expression,
   function or activity is upregulated by at least one agent which independently upregulates
   or downregulates the expression, function or activity of at least two target molecules
   associated with Perforin-2 expression, function or activity.
 5 40. The method of any one of embodiments 33-34, wherein the Perforin-2 expression,
   function or activity is downregulated by at least one agent which independently
   upregulates or downregulates the function, activity or expression of at least two target
   molecules associated with Perforin-2 expression, function or activity.
   41. The method of any one of embodiments 33-34, wherein the Perforin-2 expression,
10 function or activity is upregulated by a combination of at least two agents which
   independently upregulate or downregulate the expression, function or activity of at least
   two target molecules associated with Perforin-2 expression, function or activity.
   42. The method of any one of embodiments 33-34, wherein the Perforin-2 expression,
   function or activity is downregulated by a combination of at least two agents which
15 independently upregulate or downregulate the expression, function or activity of at least
   two target molecules associated with Perforin-2 expression, function or activity.
   43. The method of any one of embodiments 33-42, wherein the agent comprises: a small
   molecule, protein, peptide, polypeptide, modified peptides, modified oligonucleotides,
   oligonucleotide, polynucleotide, synthetic molecule, natural molecule, organic or
20 inorganic molecule, or combinations thereof.
   44. The method of embodiment 33, wherein the one or more target molecules associated
   with Perforin-2 expression, function or activity is from an infectious organism.
   45. The method of embodiment 44, wherein said infectious organism is a bacterium.
   46. The method of any one of embodiments 44-45, wherein the at least one agent
25 downregulates the expression, function or activity of the one or more target molecules.
   47. The method of any one of embodiments 44-45, wherein the at least one agent
   upregulates the expression, function or activity of the one or more target molecules.
   48. The method of embodiment 46, wherein the downregulation of the expression,
   function or activity of the one or more target molecules upregulates the expression,
30 function or activity of Perforin-2.
   49. The method of embodiment 47, wherein the upregulation of the expression, function
   or activity of the one or more target molecules downregulates the expression, function or
   activity of Perforin-2.
                                                     46

   50. The method of any one of embodiments 44-45, wherein the Perforin-2 expression,
   function or activity is upregulated by at least one agent which independently upregulates
   or downregulates the expression, function or activity of at least two target molecules
   associated with Perforin-2 expression, function or activity.
 5 51. The method of any one of embodiments 44-45, wherein the Perforin-2 expression,
   function or activity is downregulated by at least one agent which independently
   upregulates or downregulates the expression, function or activity of at least two target
   molecules associated with Perforin-2 expression, function or activity.
   52. The method of embodiment 44, wherein the bacterium is Salmonella typhimurium or
10 Escherichiacoli.
   53. The method of any one of embodiments 44-45, wherein the one or more target
   molecules associated with Perforin-2 expression, function or activity comprise: PhoP or
   deamidase.
   54. A method of identifying a candidate agent that modulates expression, function or
15 activity of Perforin-2 comprising: (a) contacting an assay surface with one or more target
   molecules comprising src, ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2M, GAPDH,
   P21RAS/gaplm, Galectin 3, ubiquitin C (UCHL1), proteasomes, vps34, ATG5, ATG7,
   ATG9L1, ATG14L, ATG16L, LC3, Rab5, PhoP, deamidase, fragments or associated
   molecules thereof; (b) contacting the target molecules with one or more candidate agents
20 and identifying the agents which bind or hybridize to one or more target molecules or
   associated molecules thereof; and (c) assaying said one or more candidate agents for
   modulation of expression, function or activity of Perforin-2, thereby identifying said
   candidate agent.
   55. The method of embodiment 54, wherein an identified candidate agent upregulates the
25 expression, function, or activity of Perforin-2.
   56. The method of embodiment 54, wherein an identified candidate agent downregulates
   the expression, function, or activity of Perforin-2.
   57. The method of embodiment 54, wherein the assays for assaying the expression,
   function or activity of Perforin-2 molecules comprise: cellular assays, immuno-assays,
30 yeast hybrid system assays, hybridization assays, nucleic acid based assays, high
   throughput screening assays or combinations thereof.
   58. The method of embodiment 54, wherein the identified candidate agents are assayed
   for inhibition of replication, inhibition of growth, or death of an infectious organism.
                                                     47

   59. The method of embodiment 58, wherein the infectious organism is an intracellular or
   extracellular bacterium.
   60. A method of identifying individuals at risk from pathogenic infections comprising:
   obtaining a patient sample, assaying for one or more molecules comprising: src,
 5 ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2M, GAPDH, P21RAS/gapIm, Galectin 3, ubiquitin C
   (UCHLl), proteasomes, Perforin-2, vps34, ATG5, ATG7, ATG9L1, ATG14L, ATG16L,
   LC3, Rab5, fragments or associated molecules thereof; and, comparing the expression,
   function or activity with a normal control.
   61. The method of embodiment 60, wherein an individual identified as having
10 downregulated expression levels, decreased activity or functions as compared to the
   control, would be prognostic for risk of infection.
   62. A transgenic mouse which comprises a disruption of a gene encoding a Perforin-2
   protein.
   63. The transgenic mouse of embodiment 62, wherein said disruption comprises a
15 heterozygous or homozygous disruption of said gene encoding a Perforin-2 protein.
   64. The transgenic mouse of embodiment 63, wherein said disruption comprises a
   homozygous disruption, wherein said homozygous disruption inactivates said gene and
   inhibits the expression of a functional Perforin-2 protein in said transgenic mouse.
   65. The transgenic mouse of any one of embodiments 62-64, wherein said transgenic
20 mouse exhibits an increased susceptibility to infection by intracellular pathogens as
   compared to a wild-type mouse.
   66. An organ, a tissue, a cell, or a cell-line derived from the transgenic mouse of any one
   of embodiments 62-64.
                                            EXAMPLES
25 Example 1: A pore-formingprotein in macrophagesand microglia kills pathogenic
   intracellularbacteria.
               The example shows that Mpeg1 encodes a novel pore forming protein,
   designated Perforin-2 (P-2), forming transmembrane pores by polymerization. P-2 in
   macrophages has potent intracellular killing activity for pathogenic bacteria including
30 methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Mycobacterium avium (Ma),
   Mycobacterium smegmatis (Msm), Salmonella typhimurium (St) and E. coli. Moreover,
   P-2 enabled the bactericidal activity of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitric oxide
   (NO).
                                                       48

   Materialsand Methods
               Plasmid Constructs: The complete coding region of murine Mpeg-I cDNA
   was constructed from several EST clones and inserted into the pEGFP-N3 plasmid
   (Clontech). Monomeric RFP was cloned in place of GFP for use in some experiments.
 5             Cell lines and PrimaryCells: HEK-293 (ATCC), RAW264.7 (ATCC) and
   cell lines were maintained in IMDM supplemented with 10% FBS. Primary
   macrophages were obtained from the peritoneum or bone marrow. Thioglycollate
   elicited peritoneal macrophages: 1.5ml of a 3%thioglycollate solution was injected i.p.
   into C57/B6 mice. 4 days later, peritoneal cells were harvested and purified by
10 adherence for macrophage cells. Bone-marrow derived macrophages: bone marrow was
   flushed from the long bones of C57BL/6 mice. Red blood cells were lysed with ACK
   buffer and the cell pellet resuspended (106cells/ml) in complete medium containing
   20ng/ml granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) (Peprotech,
   Rocky Hill, NJ, USA). On day 4, the non-adherent cells were harvested and replated in
15 fresh complete medium. Fresh medium was added every 3 days until cells were ready
   for experiments (usually between day 7 and 10).
               Negative staining electron microscopy: Membranes were isolated from
   P2GFP-transfected 293 cells by N2-cavitation and differential centrifugation.
   Membranes were resuspended in a small volume of neutral Tris-buffered saline, treated
20 with 100pg/ml trypsin for lh at 37"C, washed and negatively stained with 5% neutral
   Na-phosphotungstic acid for 30 seconds. Images were taken at 52,000 fold initial
   magnification on a Phillips CM10 transmission electron microscope.
               Gentamicinprotection assay: S. Typhimurium strain LT2Z, Mycobacterium
   avium, Mycobacterium smegmatis (ATCC), methicllin resistant Staphylococcus aureus
25 and K12 E. coli were grown from glycerol stocks at 37*C with shaking for 16-18hr in
   Luria broth (LB) (S. typhimurium, S. aureus, and E. coli) or Middlebrook 7H9 broth
   (Mycobacteria) prior to infection. For Salmonella, the culture was then diluted 1:33 in
   LB and grown for another 3 hours to induce invasive phenotype. Macrophages or
   microglial cells were plated (5x 105cells/well of a 12 well plate) and stimulated overnight
30 with LPS (1ng/ml) and IFN-y (100U/ml). Cells were infected the next day at indicated
   MOI for 30 minutes (S. typhimurium,) or 1 hour (all other bacteria) in 370C, 5% CO 2
   incubator. Cells were washed twice with PBS and fresh medium containing 50pig/ml
   gentamicin was added. After 2 hours the concentration of gentamicin was lowered to
   5ptg/ml. At the indicated timepoints after adding gentamicin, the cells were washed with
                                                     49

   PBS, lysed using 0.1% Triton-X in water, diluted and plated in triplicate on agar plates
   and CFU determined.
               RT-PCR: RNA was extracted from cells according to RNeasy (Qiagen)
   instructions. 1ptg of RNA was converted to cDNA using QuantiTect Reverse
 5 Transcription Kit (Qiagen) RT-PCR was performed using TAQMAN@ Gene Expression
   Assays (Applied Biosystems) for murine Mpeg-I and GAPDH, as a housekeeping
   control gene. All assays were performed on Applied Biosystems 7300 PCR platform.
               Antibodies: Rabbit anti-Mpegl and anti-GFP polyclonal antibodies were
   obtained from Abcam and used for western blot analysis. Rabbit anti-P2 (cytoplasmic
10 domain) antiserum was produced and obtained by 21st Century.
               RNA Interference: Three P2-specific chemically synthesized 19-nucleotide
   siRNA duplexes were obtained from Sigma. Two siRNAs were complementary to the 3'
   UTR of P2 and the third to the coding region. The sequences were as follows:
   CCACCUCACUUUCUAUCAA (SEQ ID NO: 1), GAGUAUUCUAGGAAACUUU
15 (SEQ ID NO: 2), and CAAUCAAGCUCUUGUGCAC (SEQ ID NO: 3). Transfection
   of siRNA into macrophage and microglial cells was carried out using Amaxa
   Nucleofector System (Lonza) according to manufacturer's instructions. All transfections
   were carried out using 4x 106 cells and a final concentration of 1p[M siRNA (P2-specific
   siRNAs were pooled). Immediately after transfection cells were plated in antibiotic-free
20 IMDM containing 10% FBS.
               Confocal Microscopy: For live cell imaging, RAW cells were nucleofected
   with P2GFP and stimulated overnight with LPS (1ng/ml) and IFN-y (100U/ml) in glass
   bottom dishes with No. 1.5 coverglass (MatTek Corp.). Cells were washed once with
   PBS and organelles were labeled. For endoplasmic reticulum (ER) labeling, ER
25 TRACKERTM Blue-White DPX (Invitrogen) was used at a working concentration of
    1p[M for 30 minutes at 37"C. For all other stains, transfected cells were fixed with 3%
   paraformaldehyde (PFA) for 15 min at room temperature, permeabilized with 0.5%
   saponin, blocked with 10% normal goat serum and incubated with primary and
   secondary antibodies. Anti-CD107a (LAMP-1) (BD Pharmingen), anti-CD1 lb (BD
30 Pharmingen), anti-golgin97 (Invitrogen), anti-EEA1 (Calbiochem), anti-GM130 (BD
   biosciences), and Hoechst 33258 (Invitrogen) were used to identify cellular organelles.
   Secondary antibodies were all raised in goats. Images were taken on a Leica SP5
   inverted confocal microscope with a motorized stage and analyzed using Leica
   application suite advanced fluorescence software.
                                                     50

                Results and Discussion
                Macrophages constitutively transcribe Mpeg 1 mRNA which predicts a
   protein with a MACPF domain typically found in cytolytic pore-forming proteins. The
   founding members of the MACPF domain are the pore-forming complement component
 5 C9 of the membrane attack complex, killing extracellular bacteria, and Perforin-1, the
   pore-forming molecule of T and NK lymphocytes killing virus-infected cells and tumor
   cells. Pore formation is achieved by polymerization of the MACPF domain which
   mediates conformational changes resulting in membrane insertion of four amphipathic     p
   strands leading to perforation and target cell death. In this example it is shown that
10 Mpeg 1 encodes a novel pore-forming protein, designated Perforin-2 (P-2), assembling
   transmembrane pores by polymerization. P-2 in macrophages has potent killing activity
   for intracellular pathogenic bacteria including Mycobacterium avium, (M avium), M
   smegmatis, Salmonella typhimurium (S. typhimurium), Escherichiacoli (E coli) and
   clinical isolates of Methicillin resistantStaphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Importantly, P
15 2 also contributes to the antimicrobial activity of ROS and NO.
                The current understanding of bactericidal responses in macrophages is that
   they are mediated by oxidative mechanisms, such as ROS and NO within the
   phagosome, and by phagosome-lysosome fusion. To assess the role of P-2 in
   comparison to ROS and NO in intracellular killing of bacteria, each of the bactericidal
20 effectors was blocked individually or in combination with P-2, and intracellular bacterial
   survival in peritoneal macrophages (PEM) measured between 1 and 5 hours post
   infection utilizing the gentamycin protection assay (Figures 1A-i C). Gentamycin is
   membrane impermeable and present only in the extracellular medium. Inhibition of ROS,
   NO or P-2 individually had different effects on different bacteria. Using S. typhimurium,
25  -90% bacteria present intracellularly in PEM at lh were dead at 5h in the absence of
   inhibitors (~10% survival, Figure 1 A). Blockade of ROS with the antioxidant and ROS
   scavenger N-Acetylcysteine (NAC) allowed -80% survival of Salmonellae at 5h
   compared to lh levels, indicating that only 20% are killed without the help of ROS.
   Blockade of NO with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester
30 hydrochloride (L-NAME) has similar effects as NAC. P-2 knockdown by transfection
   with P-2-specific siRNAs (data for efficiency of knock down in Figures 5A, 5B) on the
   other hand eliminated all killing and allowed intracellular replication of Salmonellae
   (Figure 1 A) even though ROS and NO were not blocked. Importantly, combination of
                                                     51

   NAC or L-NAME with P-2 knockdown did not further increase intracellular replication
   above that provided by P-2 blockade alone suggesting that P-2 is a common mediator for
   both, ROS and NO, antimicrobial pathways. In other words without P-2 ROS and NO
   have little effect on killing of Salmonellae.
 5              About 30% of M smegmatis survive 5h post infection in the absence of
   inhibitors indicating relative resistance to killing by PEM (Figure 1B). Blockade of ROS
   or NO increases their survival to ~60% providing evidence of a 30% contribution to
   killing. Knockdown of P-2 on the other hand inhibits almost all bactericidal activity for
   M smegmatis suggesting again that P-2 mediates also the toxicity of ROS and NO
10 (Figure 1B). Non pathogenic E coli K12 is most sensitive to killing by PEM in the
   absence of inhibitors (100% killing, Figure IC). ROS and NO inhibition or P-2 knock
   down allow -30, -40 and -60% survival, respectively, indicating that non-pathogenic E.
   coli is more sensitive to ROS and NO in the absence of P-2 than pathogenic bacteria that
   may be armed with sturdier cell walls in addition to ROS and NO resistance mechanisms
15 such as production of catalases and antioxidants. The inhibitors, in the absence of PEM,
   had no effect on bacterial growth (Figure 6). The data evidence that outer cell wall
   damage of bacteria by P-2 facilitates the access for ROS and NO to cause irreversible
   damage to underlying bacterial structures resulting in bacterial death during the first 5
   hours of infection. This situation is analogous to Perforin-1 which is required for
20 granzyme-mediated cell death and to the MAC of complement providing access for
   lysozyme to the bacterial proteoglycan layer resulting in structural collapse.
                P-2 is highly conserved from sponge to man (Figure 7), evidencing
   fundamental functional importance. C-terminal to the MACPF domain is a novel
   conserved domain, designated here P-2-domain (Figure 2 A), that is conserved in all
25 Perforin-2 orthologues but does not exhibit homology to any other protein domain.
   Unlike the other pore formers of the immune system which are soluble, P-2 is a type 1
   membrane protein containing a typical transmembrane sequence and a cytoplasmic
   domain. The effector-MACPF domain points toward the lumen of the ER or budding
   transport vesicles. The short cytoplasmic domain extends into the cell cytoplasm and
30 displays classical regulatory elements that are currently under study to define the
   mechanism of P-2 polymerization.
               To determine whether P-2 generated membrane associated pores, the
   complete open reading frame was assembled, fused green fluorescent protein (GFP) to
   the C-terminus at the cytoplasmic domain, and transfected it into HEK-293 cells. P-2
                                                      52

   GFP was detected by immunoblot using a commercial polyclonal anti-peptide antiserum
   to P-2, the in house polyclonal antiserum raised against the cytoplasmic domain of P-2,
   or anti-GFP antibodies (Figure 8). P-2-GFP-fluorescent membranes were obtained by
   cell lysis and differential centrifugation and treated with trypsin, which removes
 5 membrane proteins but not Perforin-I and MAC pores. Trypsin cleaves the cytoplasmic
   domain of P-2 but not P-2 pores which remain membrane associated as shown in Figure
   2 B by negative staining electron microscopy at approximately 200,000-fold
   magnification. This picture represents the first physical evidence and image indicating
   that P-2 is indeed a pore-forming protein with cytolytic activity. Control membranes
10 from untransfected 293 cells, trypsinized in the same way, were devoid of pore
   complexes (not shown). Hollow cylindrical poly-P-2 complexes have a mean inner
   diameter of 9.2 nm compared to poly-Perforin-1 which has a diameter of 16 nm (Figure
   2G) and poly-C9 of 10 nm. The fine structure suggests a polymeric composition of 12
    14 protomers. Incompletely assembled pores attest to the polymerization process (Figure
15  2C, arrows). In side views, the complex projects outward either 12 or 25 nm (Figures 2E
    and 2F; parallel arrows).
                In addition to PEM, bone marrow-derived macrophage/dendritic cells
    (BMDM/BMDC) and macrophage (RAW264.7) and microglia (BV2) cell lines have
    potent intracellular killing mechanisms for phagocytosed MRSA, Mycobacteria, S.
20  typhimurium, and E. coli as determined by the gentamycin protection assay (Figures 3A
    31). Macrophages, BMDM/DC and microglia express P-2 constitutively and upregulate
    P-2 mRNA and protein expression upon lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and interferon-gamma
    (IFN-y) treatment (Figures 9A-9D). P-2 was knocked down in RAW, BV2, BMDM/DC
    or PEM by transfection with P-2-specific siRNAs and compared intracellular bactericidal
25  activity to cells transfected with scrambled siRNA. Knockdown efficiency of P-2
    mRNA was 80 to 95% (Figures 5A, 5B) and of protein > 90% (Figure 3E). P-2 knock
    down strongly inhibited intracellular killing of bacteria in RAW, BV2, BMDM/BMDC
    and PEM cells (Figures 3A-3D and Figures 10A-10E). P-2 knockdown inhibited
    intracellular killing of highly pathogenic M avium, MRSA and S. typhimurium as well as
30  nonpathogenic E. coli and M smegmatis (Figure 3A-3D). Cell viability was not
    differentially affected in the knockdown and control cells following transfection or
    during the infection period (not shown). Overexpression of P-2-RFP by transfection of
    RAW increased intracellular killing of M avium consistent with intracellular bactericidal
                                                      53

   functions of P-2 (Figures 3F, 3G and Figure 1 A-1 IF). Cell viability was equivalent in
   the P-2-RFP expressing and control cells following transfection and during the infection
   period (not shown). To exclude potential unintended effects of P-2 knockdown on other
   cellular components that may be responsible for diminished intracellular killing activity,
 5 endogenous P-2 was knocked down with P-2-siRNA complementary to the P-2 3'UTR
   and reconstituted P-2 activity by transfection with P-2-RFP cDNA lacking the P-2
   3'UTR (Figure 3 H and Figures 12A, 12B). Knockdown of endogenous P-2 and
   complementation with P-2-RFP, verified in Western blots (Figure 31), fully restored
   intracellular bactericidal activity, indicating that P-2 is responsible for intracellular
10 bacterial destruction.
               Determination of the intracellular localization of P-2 required transfection of
   macrophages with P-2-GFP. Commercially available polyclonal anti-peptide antibodies
   to P-2 do not recognize native P-2 (data not shown); generation of monoclonal antibodies
   to native P-2 has not been successful so far, probably owing to the high degree of
15 conservation (Figures 5A, 5B). To avoid artifacts of P-2-GFP overexpression RAW
   cells were analyzed after transient transfection at early times when expression of P2-GFP
   was still low. Unlike GFP alone, P-2-GFP localized primarily to the ER, the Golgi and
   trans-Golgi network membranes and was excluded from the plasma membrane,
   lysosomes and early endosomes (Figures 4A-4D and Figures 13A-13C). The reported
20 fusion of ER membranes with phagosomal membranes allows P-2 access to the
   phagosome membrane, where it has been detected by mass spectrometry in purified
   phagosomes containing latex particles of the J774 murine cell line. P-2 therefore is
   present at the location required for intraphagosomal killing of intracellular bacteria.
               The studies herein, establish that macrophages contain a novel pore-forming
25 protein, Perforin-2, which is membrane-associated and has potent intracellular
   bactericidal functions against a wide range of pathogenic bacterial species. The
   bactericidal activities of ROS and NO are strongly enhanced by the presence of P-2, the
   cell wall damaging activity of which may provide access for small molecules including
   lysozyme to attack the peptidoglycan layer or the inner membrane and DNA of bacteria.
30 The molecular mechanism of the activation of P-2-polymerization is not known but is
   under active investigation, focusing on the function of the cytoplasmic domain of P-2.
   Given the long evolutionary antagonism of P-2 and intracellular bacteria it will be of
   great interest to study evasive strategies of intracellular pathogens for avoiding P-2
   attack.
                                                       54

               P-2 appears to be the original pore-forming protein of innate immune defense
   present already in primitive sponges and other invertebrate marine organisms. P-2 is
   inducible in virtually all body cells and protects them from intracellular bacterial growth.
   Ancient P-2 continues to be an important antibacterial component of innate immune
 5 defense.
   Example 2: Modulation of P2
               It was hypothesized that src kinase would be responsible for P2 activation,
   and autophagy to be involved in bacterial killing. In addition 7 proteins were identified,
10 with the yeast two hybrid system, that interact with the cytoplasmic domain of P2 and
   therefore is evidence that they are implicated in P2 activation. These proteins are listed
   in Table 1.
               P2 has a transmembrane domain that is involved in P2 activation for killing.
   P2 has a highly conserved Y and S and a conserved RKYKKK (SEQ ID NO: 4) domain
15 (GTRKYKKKEYQEIEE; SEQ ID NO: 6).
               Knock down of src, Ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2M (Ubc12), GAPDH,
   P21 RAS/gap im (RASA2), Galectin 3, and UCHL 1 interfered with killing of bacteria
   by microglia and fibroblasts. These molecules therefore are responsible for activating P2
   dependent killing of bacteria. ATG14 knock down also interferes with P2 mediated
20 killing providing a link to P21 RAS and autophagy. By modulating (blocking or
   enhancing) these P2 activator proteins with small drugs or biologics would result in the
   increase or decrease P2 activity. Since P2 is expressed in many if not all tissues it
   clearly is of extreme importance for anti-microbial control. At the same time
   dysregulation may lead to auto aggressive and autoimmune disease (up regulated
25 activity) or to immune deficiency (down regulation). Pathogenic bacteria are likely to
   interfere with P2 activation via blocking the activation cascade. Counteracting such
   interference could provide to treat and cure patients with infections with drug resistant
   bacteria.
                                                      55

               In summary the molecular mechanisms of P2 activation provides many
   druggable targets that could be useful foe a broad spectrum of diseases.
   Table 1
                               Clone                    Number of clones           Homology
     1      Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2M                    18                   100%
            (Ubc 12)
     2      GAPDH                                               17                   100%
     3      P21 RAS activator2/gapIm (sfpil)                    13                   100%
            (RASA2)
     4      Galactose binding lectin (Galectin-3)                6                   100%
     5      Ubiquitin C (UCHL1)                                  1                   100%
     6      Chromosome #6                                        1                   100%
     7      Mus musculus proteasome                              1                   100%
 5
   Example 3: Somatic cells mediate bactericidalfunctions via poreforming protein
   Perforin-2.
                Macrophages, dendritic cells, and microglia constitutively express a pore
   forming protein, designated Perforin-2 (P-2), to kill pathogenic intracellular bacteria. P
10 2 kills bacteria by membrane damage which also enhances the bactericidal effects of
   reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitric oxide (NO), evidencing that physical damage
   provides access to sensitive layers of bacteria. Epithelial cells, fibroblasts, and other
   non-hematopoietic-derived cells are invaded by bacteria and clear intracellular bacterial
   infections with the aid of autophagy-related mechanisms and antimicrobial compounds.
15 Prior to these experiments, it was unknown whether P-2 could be expressed and used by
   non--hematopoietic cells for bacterial clearance. This is the first report to show that
   primary human keratinocytes express P-2-mRNA constitutively and that all somatic cells
   analyzed to date can be induced to express P-2 mRNA by type 1 and type 2 interferons.
   Moreover knockdown of endogenous, P-2 with a P-2-specific siRNA 1inhibits
20 bactericidal activity, which is restored by complementation with P-2-RFP, but not by
   RFP.
               Materials andMethods
               Human cells: The following cells were used. Uumbilical vein endothelial
   cells, MIA PaCa-2 pancreatic cancer (ATCC CRL-1420), UM-UC-3 bladder cancer
                                                    56

   (ATCC CRL-1749), UM-UC-9 bladder cancer23, HeLa (ATCC CCL-2), HEK293T
   (ATCC CRL-1573), and primary keratinocytes. HUVECs were grown in Lonza EGM-2
   bullet kit; primary human keratinocytes were grown as previously described (Wiens, M.
   et al. JBiol Chem 280, 27949-27959, doi:10.1074/jbc.M504049200 (2005)). All other
 5 cells were grown following ATCC recommendations. All cells were cultured at 37'C in
   a humidified atmosphere containing 5% Co 2.
                Mouse cells: CT26 colon carcinoma (ATCC CRL-2638), CMT-93 rectal
   carcinoma (ATCC CCL-223), B 16-F10 melanoma (ATCC CRL-6475), Neuro-2a
   neuroblastoma CATH.a neuroblastoma. Ovarian caricinoma's MOVCAR 5009 and
10 MOVCAR 5047 were purchased from Fox Chase cancer center. NIH/3T3 fibroblast
   (ATCC CRL-1658), C2C12 myoblast (ATCC CRL-1772), primary meningeal
   fibroblasts, and primary astrocytes were isolated as previously described (Sabichi, A. et
   al. The Journalof Urology 175, 1133-1137, doi:10.1016/S0022-5347(05)00323-X
   (2006); Tomic-Canic, M. et al. Wound repairand regeneration: officialpublicationof
15 the Wound Healing Society [and] the European Tissue Repair Society 15, 71-79,
   doi:10.1111/j.1524-475X.2006.00187.x (2007)). All cell lines were grown in accordance
   with ATCC guidelines, and culture at 37'C in a humidified atmosphere containing 5%
   CO 2 .
                Chemicals: MG- 132, Chicken egg white Lysozyme, and Lipopolysaccharide
20 (LPS) were purchased from Sigma. Recombinant murine IL-la, IL- 1p, TNFa, IFN-y,
   IFN-a, IFN-p recombinant human IFN-y, IFN-p were purchased from preprotech.
   Recombant human IFN-a was purchased from R&D systems. Murine IL-i 3was
   supplemented at 10 U/mL where indicated. Murine IL-1p was supplemented at 1 ng/ml.
   Murine TNFa was supplemented at 20ng/ml. Murine IFN-a, IFN-         P and IFN-y was
25 supplemented with 1OOU/ml. Human IFN-a was supplemented where indicated in at a
   concentration of 150U/ml where indicated. Human IFN-P and IFN-y was supplemented
   at a concentration of 1OOU/ml. LPS was added at a concentration of 1 ng/ml.
                PlasmidConstructs: The complete coding region of murine Mpeg-I cDNA
   was constructed from several EST clones and inserted into the pEGFP-N3 plasmid
30 (Clontech). Monomeric RFP was cloned in place of GFP for use in infection
   experiments.
                Negative Staining TransmissionElectron Microscopy: mEF were stimulated
   for 14 hours with IFN-y (1OOU/mL) and infected with the indicated bacterial strains at a
   multiplicity of infection of 30 for 5 hours. Prokaryote membranes were harvested
                                                    57

   through lysing mEFs with 1%Igepal in ddH20. The lysate was centrifuged at 200g for
    10 minutes to pellet intact bacteria. The resulting pellet was resuspended in in minimal
   ddH20 washed and negatively stained with 3% Uranyl Formate (UF) for 30 seconds.
   Images were taken at 52,000-fold initial magnification on a Phillips CM10 transmission
 5 electron microscope
               Antibodies: Rabbit anti-Mpegl polyclonal antibody was obtained from
   Abcam and used for western blot analysis.
               qRT-PCR: RNA was extracted from cells following RNeasy (Qiagen)
   instructions. One gg of RNA was converted to cDNA using QuantiTect Reverse
10 Transcription kit (Qiagen) following supplier's protocol. qRT-PCR was performed using
   TAQMAN@ Gene Expression Assays (Applied Biosystems) for murine Mpegl and
   GAPDH, with the later serving as a housekeeping control gene. For human tissues,
   human Mpegl and GapDH probes were utilized. All assays were performed on the
   Applied Biosystems 7300 PCR platform.
15             RNA Interference: For murine cells, three mpeg1-specific chemically
   synthesized 19-nucleotide siRNA duplexes were obtained from Sigma. Two siRNAs
   were complementary to the 3' UTR of P-2 and the third to the coding region. The
   sequences were as follows: CCACCUCACUUUCUAUCAA (SEQ ID NO:1),
   GAGUAUUCUAGGAAACUUU                   (SEQ ID NO:2), and CAAUCAAGCUCUUGUGCAC
20 (SEQ ID NO:3). A scramble siRNA was also generated to serve as a control to the
   reaction. For human cells, three human mpegl -specific silencer select siRNA were
   purchased from Ambion (Invitrogen) Silencer Select #s61053, s47810, s61054. Silencer
   select negative control #2 from Ambion (Invitrogen) was also used.
               Transfections: Transient transfections were carried out utilizing the Amaxa
25 Nucleofector System (Lonza) according to the manufacturer's optimized protocol for
   each cell line.
               Gentamycin ProtectionAssay: S. typhimurium strain LT2Z), Mycobacterium
   smegmatis, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, and K coli strain K12 were
   grown from glycerol stocks at 370 C with shaking for 24 hours in Luria broth (S.
30 typhimurium, S. aureus, and K coli) or Middlebrook 7H9 broth (M smegmatis). For S.
   typhimurium, S. aureus, and K coli, these cultures were then diluted 1:33 in LB and
   grown for another 3 hours to reach log phase prior to infection. Eukaryotic cells were
   transfected following Lonza's optimized protocol for the respective cells, and plated into
   12 well plates post transfection. The cells were then stimulated for 14 hours with IFN-y
                                                      58

   (100 U/ml). Cells were infected at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) between 10 and 60
   for 30 minutes (S. typhimurium) or 1 hour (S. aureus, E. coli, and M smegmatis) in
   37'C, 5% CO 2 incubator. After infection, cells were washed twice with ice-cold PBS
   and fresh media containing 50-pg/ml gentamycin was added. After 2 hours, the media
 5 was changed to decrease the concentration of gentamycin to 5 pg/ml. At indicated time
   points, cells were washed with PBS, lysed using 1%Igepal in ddH20, diluted and plated
   in technical triplicate on LB agar plates (S. typhimurium, S. aureus, E coli) or
   Middlebrook 7H1 1 plates (M. smegmatis) and CFU determined after sufficient colony
   growth.
10              Lysozyme killing activity: Follow above for Gentamycin protection assay,
   after lysis, divide the lysate into 6 equal fractions, treating half to achieve final
   concentration 40-ptg/ml lysozyme and the remainder with equal volume buffer. All
   fractions were incubated on ice for 30 minutes prior to plating in technical duplicates for
   CFU analysis.
15              StatisticalAnalysis:The data was first analyzed according to the
   Kolmogorov-Smirnov test (K-S test) to determine if a Gaussian distribution is present.
   Using the resulting statistic, the data was analyzed according to the number of
   independent variables in each experiment. If comparing between two groups, and the
   data fits a Gaussian distribution according to the K-S test, an independent measures t test
20 was used; however, if a Gaussian distribution is not present a Mann-Whitney test was
   carried out in order to assess statistical significance. For analysis of greater than two
   groups, one-way, independent measures ANOVA applying a Bonferroni post hoc test, if
   a Gaussian distribution is present. If a Gaussian distribution is not present, the Kruskal
   Wallis test is used utilizing a Bonferroni post hoc test.
25              Results andDiscussion
                All human and mouse primary cells and cell lines analyzed to date rapidly
   express P-2 mRNA upon interferon induction (Figures 14A-14J and Table 2 and Figures
    18A- 181). Unstimulated primary murine embryonic fibroblasts (nEF) do not express
   detectable levels of P-2 mRNA by TAQMAN TM PCR after 39 cycles (Figure 14 A).
30 Interferon (IFNa,   P ory added singly each up-regulates P-2 mRNA; added together they
   induce high levels of P-2 mRNA. LPS, IL-la, and TNFa in contrast do not induce P-2
   mRNA in mEF. Although there are individual differences, this pattern of P-2 induction
   was found in all primary cells and established cell lines tested from mouse and man
   (Figures 14A- 14F, complete listing in Figures18A-181 and Table 2). Despite potent
                                                       59

   upregulation of P-2 mRNA by IFNs, P-2 protein is not detected by Western blot analysis
   of interferon-activated mEF unless the proteasome inhibitor MG 132 is added (Figure
   14G), evidencing that rapid P-2 protein turnover is occurring through proteasomal
   degradation. The exception to these findings occurs with primary human keratinocytes
 5 that constitutively express P-2 mRNA and protein (Figure 14H).
               LPS is unable to induce P-2 mRNA in mEF; however, coincubation of mEF
   with E. coli K12 or Mycobacterium (M.) smegmatis results in a strong increase in the
   expression of P-2 mRNA within 24 h with significant upregulation of P-2 mRNA levels
   detected already at 1Oh (Figure 141). Preinduction of P-2 with type 2 IFN enables mEF to
10 rapidly kill intracellular M. smegmatis within 1-5 hours in the gentamycin protection
   assay (Figure 14J); gentamycin is membrane impermeable during this period in intact
   cells. In contrast, when uninduced mEF are incubated with M smegmatis, intracellular
   killing of mycobacteria is delayed by about 16h and is less efficient (Figure 14J). The
   association of P-2 mRNA levels with intracellular bactericidal activity suggests a causal
15 relationship.
               P-2 mediated killing of bacteria predicts (1) electron microscopic lesions on
   cell walls of bacteria killed by mEF and (2) inhibition of intracellular killing when P-2
   mRNA is knocked down with P2-siRNA. Intracellular M smegmatis or Methicillin
   resistantStaphylococcus aureus (MRSA) were isolated from type 2-IFN-induced mEF
20 by detergent lysis of host cells 5 h after infection. At this time most of the intracellular
   mycobacteria are dead as indicated by lack of colony formation (Figure 14J). The
   bacteria are separated from the cell lysates by centrifugation. Because membrane-bound
   P-2-polymers are resistant to trypsin cleavage, similar to poly Perforin-I and poly C9,
   bacterial pellets were treated with trypsin and lysozyme and then inspected by negative
25 staining electron microscopy at 250,000x magnification. The images of mycobacterial
   and staphylococcal membranes show lesions conforming to the expected morphology of
   poly P-2 (Figure 15A, 15B, 15D, 15E) which are similar to the positive control of P-2
   stable overexpression on HEK293 membranes (Figure 15C) and Membrane Attack
   Complex (MAC) of complement lesions on E. coli (Figure 15F). Clusters of circular or
30 irregularly fused, negative stain-filled lesions of 9-10 nm mean internal diameter
   (arrows, Figure 15A) are seen on the otherwise smooth background of MRSA cell walls,
   shown at higher magnification in Figure 15B. Similar membrane lesions are seen on M
   smegmatis membranes (arrows Figures 15D and 15E) shown at two magnifications.
   Clusters of P-2 lesions are seen in patches on bacterial membranes suggesting that
                                                       60

   bacteria make local contact with P-2 bearing membranes resulting in P-2 polymerization
   and poly-P2 insertion into the outer bacterial cell wall creating the lesions seen in the
   electron-microscope. Rectal epithelial carcinoma cells CMT93 kill M smegmatis,
   clinical isolates of MRSA, S. typhimurium, and E. coli K12 in the gentamycin protection
 5 assay (Figures 16A-16D). Killing is enhanced upon transfection of CMT-93 with RFP
   tagged P-2-RFP but not by RFP alone. In contrast, P-2 siRNA, but not scrambled siRNA
   transfection eliminates bactericidal activity, causing all tested bacteria except E. coli to
   replicate intracellularly. MRSA and M smegmatis kill host cells owing to this replication
   after several hours and are released into the medium containing gentamycin where they
10 are killed by the antibiotic. Assays were limited in most cases to the first 5 hours when
   most P-2-dependent bacterial killing occurs. Bacterial killing in cells depleted of
   endogenous P-2 could be restored by transfection with P-2-RFP that is resistant to
   knockdown due to its lack of the 3'UTR of endogenous P-2 (Figures 163E).
               All mouse and human cells expressing constitutive or inducible P-2 mRNA
15 are able to kill all of the four bacterial strains. P-2 siRNA inhibited intracellular killing
   activity as shown in the examples in Figures 16F- 16L and in supplementary Figures
   20A-20B, evidencing that P-2 mediated intracellular killing of bacteria is. a critical
   component of natural immunity preventing intracellular bacterial invasion.
                Inspection of plated bacteria with the phase contrast light microscope allows
20 early determination and counting of colonies in the colony-forming assays, saving time
   especially for Mycobacteria which require 2-3 days to form colonies visible by eye, but
   detectable by microscopy already 12 h after plating. Inspecting M. smegmatis in this
   way, it was noted that the majority of bacteria isolated from host cells after 5h had
   swollen, plump bodies that did not form colonies, suggesting that they are dead (Figures
25  17A, 17B). Live mycobacteria plated fresh from culture have corkscrew morphology
   (Figure 17A) and can form colonies (not shown). In vitro addition of lysozyme for 30
   minutes on ice to mycobacteria isolated at 5 h (Figure 17C) causes the disappearance of
   most of the plump bodies suggesting that their lysis occurred, but did not affect the
   corkscrew morphology of the few live bacteria which are beginning to form colonies
30 (arrows Figure 17C). Poly-P-2 lesions in bacterial cell walls therefore mediate
   susceptibility to lysis by lysozyme which is quantitated by counting all bacteria and
   reporting the percentage of plump bodies with and without lysozyme addition (Figure
    17E).
                                                        61

               The influence of P-2 damage to the cell wall on the effect of lysozyme was
   further studied by P-2 knockdown and P-2 overexpression in mEF and in CMT93 cells
   using M smegmatis, MRSA, and E. coli all of which are lysozyme-resistant when
   undamaged (Figures 17E-17J, Figures 23A-23C). In scramble siRNA controls
 5 containing normal P-2 levels, the addition of lysozyme to bacteria obtained at different
   times after detergent lysis of host cells significantly reduces the number of colonies
   (Figures 17E and 17H) evidenicing that some bacteria have damaged cell walls that;
   however, can be repaired, unless the bacteria are lysed by lysozyme that gains access via
   cell wall damage through by poly-P-2. The bactericidal effect of lysozyme is not
10 detected when P-2 is knocked down by P-2 siRNA (Figures 17F and 171) indicating
   absence of poly-P2-mediated cell wall damage, but is more pronounced when P-2-RFP is
   overexpressed together with endogenous P-2, leading to more P-2-mediated cell wall
   damage (Figures 17G and 17J).
               The above data indicate that apparently all of our cells have the ability to
15 become killer cells and eliminate intracellular bacterial invasion with the aid of the pore
   forming protein Perforin-2. P-2 acts very early, damaging the bacterial cell wall by
   insertion into the lipid layer and polymerization, analogous to C9 polymerization during
   membrane attack by complement and to Perforin-1 polymerization during CTL attack of
   virus-infected cells and neoplastic cells. All three-pore formers share the MACPF
20 domain which has been shown to trigger polymerization in Perforin-I and is likely to
   mediate the same function in Perforin-2. Poly-C9 pores of the MAC provide access for
   serum lysozyme leading to bacterial lysis and structural collapse; likewise poly-Perforin
    1 pores provide access for granzymes that mediate cell death via multiple apoptotic and
   non-apoptotic pathways. In analogy, poly-Perforin-2 pores provide access for lysozyme,
25 ROS, NO, and probably other anti-microbial compounds to enhance bacterial killing.
   Physical membrane damage by pore-forming proteins thus is a common mode of
   immune defense. Perforin-2 kills intracellular bacteria, the MAC kills extracellular
   bacteria and Perforin- 1 kills virus infected cells via physical attack. In all cases, the cell
   wall/membrane damage caused by the pore formers serves as entry port for additional
30 cytotoxic molecules to finish the task. Of the three pore formers sharing the MAC/PF
   domain, Perforin-2 appears to be the oldest, being present already in sponges and other
   invertebrates. It differs from the other two pore formers in being a transmembrane
   protein that is activated by transmembrane signaling from the cytoplasmic domain.
                                                       62

  Elucidation of the signaling mechanism is likely to offer drug targets to enhance or
  diminish P-2 activity and to unveil bacterial evasion mechanisms.
  Table 2: Summary of all cell lines tested. N.D. is listed when P-2 dependent killing was
5 not done.
                 Cell type                    mRNA IFN-
                                        P-2inducible?             P-2 dependent killing?
          CT26 colon carcinoma               Inducible                      Yes
                   (M.m)
          Primary CNS fibroblast             Inducible                      Yes
                   (M.m)
           Primary keratinocytes          Constitutive                     N.D.
                    (H.s)
         B16F10 melanoma (M.m)               Inducible                      Yes
         Neuro2.A neuroblastoma              Inducible                     N.D.
                   (M.m)
           Ubc9 bladder cancer
                                             Inducible                      Yes
                    (H.s)
            MiaPac pancreatic                Inducible                      Yes
                cancer (H.s)
          Cath.A neuroblastoma               Inducible                     N.D.
                   (M.m)
           Ubc3 bladder cancer
                                             Inducible                      Yes
                    (H.s)
             murine Embryonic                Inducible                      Yes
         Fibroblast (mEF) (M.m.)
              NIH 3T3 (M.m.)                 Inducible                      Yes
         C2C12 myoblast (M.m.)               Inducible                      Yes
         CMT93 colon carcinoma               Inducible                      Yes
                  (M.m).
            Primary astrocytes               Inducible                      Yes
                   (H.s.)
          293 Embryonal kidney               Inducible                     Yes
                   (H.s.)__            _   _   _  _  _    _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _   _ _ _   _  _
           Umbilical endothelial             Inducible                     Yes
                cells (H.s.)
                                                       63

            Peritoneal macrophages          Constitutive                  Yes
                     (M.m.)
           Bone marrow derived DC           Constitutive                  Yes
                     (M.m.)
                Microglia (M.m.)            Constitutive                  Yes
              Polymorph-nuclear
            neutrophilic ganulocyte         Constitutive                  N.D.
                      (H.s.)
              HL60 promyelocyte             Constitutive
                                                    ConstiutiveYes
                   PMN (H.s)
   Example 4: Perforin-2protects againstlethal bacterialinfection
            Reactive oxygen and nitrogen intermediates and permeability increasing proteins
 5 are important antibacterial effectors, however additional bactericidal effectors are
   thought to exist. We now show that the pore-forming protein Perforin-2 is essential for
   protection against intracellular bacterial replication. Ubiquitous throughout the body,
   Perforin-2 kills Gram positive, negative and acid fast bacteria. Perforin-2 deficient mice
   die from oro-gastric Salmonella infections that are cleared in sufficient mice. Perforin-2
10 is a transmembrane protein pointing its MACPF-killer-domain into the lumen of
   membrane-vesicles that translocate to the bacterium containing vacuole upon infection.
   Perforin-2 killed bacteria bear clustered 90A pores on their cell wall that may render
   bacteria more susceptible to reactive oxygen and nitrogen intermediates. Pathogenic
   bacteria subvert Perforin-2 expression or activation and Perforin-2 levels are suppressed
15 in non-healing, chronically infected skin ulcers in patients. Studying the pathways of
   Perforin-2 action will provide opportunities for novel approaches against life threatening
   bacterial infections.
   Perforin-2 knock out in mice results in uncontrolledSalmonella replicationandlethality
            To determine the biological importance of Perforin-2 in vivo we generated
20 Perforin-2 knock out (P-2-/-) mice by homologous recombination. The mice are of mixed
   C57B16 and 129 backgrounds providing for differences in minor MHC antigens and
   thereby generating limited diversity. P-2-/- mice develop and thrive normally under
   pathogen free conditions. Homozygous P-2-/-, heterozygous P-2+/- and wild type P-2+/+
   littermates were challenged oro-gastrically with Salmonella typhimurium as described.
25 Infection of P2+/+ mice with 105 streptomycin resistant salmonellae 24h after
                                                       64

   pretreatment with streptomycin results in mild (<10%) weight loss in the first 5 days
   after infection with subsequent full recovery by day 9 (Fig. 25 a). In contrast,
   homozygous P-2-/- mice develop bloody diarrhea associated with progressive weight
   loss to day 5 or 6 at which time they were euthanized for analysis and to prevent further
 5 suffering. Even challenge with only 102 salmonellae caused progressive disease in P-2-/
   mice and lethality. P-2+/- littermates had more severe disease than P-2+/+ littermates but
   recovered (Fig 25a).
            Severe weight loss of S. typhimurium infected P-2-/- mice was associated high
   bacterial titers in blood and dissemination to multiple organs (Fig. 25b).
10 Histopathological examination showed complete dissolution of the epithelial barrier in
   the small and large intestine and massive cellular infiltration that, however, was unable
   to clear the bacteria (not shown).
            Rejection of Salmonella by IFN-y activated peritoneal exudate macrophages from
   P-2-/-mice (P-2-/- PEM) was also analyzed in vitro. PEM were infected for one hour,
15 washed and then incubated for times indicated, lysed and CFU determined. Salmonella
   replicated to high numbers within P-2-/- PEM. In contrast, in P-2+/+ PEM their number
   was reduced by about 50% in 4h and then held steady. Heterozygous P-2+/- PEM only
   delayed Salmonella replication. For comparison, P-2 knock down with siRNA in wild
   type PEM resembles to P-2-/- PEM validating the knock down technique (Fig. 25c).
20 Interferons induce Perforin-2in all cells and enable bactericidalactivity
            The rapid spread of Salmonella in P-2-/- mice suggested that none of the cells in
   the P-2-/- mouse were able to stop bacterial dissemination. We therefore investigated
   which cell types expressed P-2 constitutively or can be induced to express P-2. Table 2
   summarizes the data. PMN, macrophages, dendritic cells and microglia constitutively
25 express Perforin-2 mRNA and protein which is further upregulated by IFN-y and LPS
   (not shown). Human primary keratinocytes and keratinocytes from tissue samples taken
   from the edge of chronic wounds (Fig. 27) likewise express P-2 constitutively. All other
   cells and cell lines tested express P-2 mRNA only after treatment with IFN-a-p or -y. All
   cells expressing P-2 are able to control intracellular bacterial infection, which however is
30 abolished when P-2 is knocked down with siRNA. Human PMN and macrophages
   express P-2 protein constitutively (Fig. 26a). Knock down of Perforin-2 in PMN, induced
   by retinoic acid from HL60, significantly inhibits bactericidal activity and enables
   intracellular replication of MRSA, M. smegmatis and S. typhimurium (Fig. 26a).
   Likewise P-2 knock down significantly inhibits killing of intracellular bacteria in
                                                     65

   intestinal epithelial cells (rectal carcinoma CMT93) (Fig. 26b), human endothelial cells
   (HUVEC) (Fig. 26c), and human cervical carcinoma epithelial cells HeLa) (Fig. 26d).
   Elevated expression of P-2 by P-2-GFP transfection increases bactericidal activity which
   is important for eliminating Mycobacterium avium (Fig. 26e). Endogenous P-2, knocked
 5 down with siRNA specific to the 3'-untranslated region of P-2, is complemented by
   transfection with P-2-GFP or P-2-RFP and fully reconstitutes bactericidal activity in
   MEF (Fig. 26f) or phagocytic cells (not shown). Cumulatively, our data show that P-2 is
   expressed or can be induced ubiquitously and is required to kill or inhibit intracellular
   replication of at least the three types of bacteria examined.
10 Bacteria can block Perforin-2 induction and activation
           The potent bactericidal activity of P-2 suggests that intracellular bacteria must
   evolve strategies to evade Perforin-2. In principle, bacteria could block Perforin-2
   transcription in non-phagocytic cells, cause down regulation in constitutively Perforin-2
   expressing cells or interfere with Perforin-2 activation and polymerization. Infection of
15 naYve MEF with the laboratory strain E. coli K12 results in rapid induction of P-2 mRNA
   and subsequent killing of the intracellular bacteria. Unlike E. coli, live wild type S.
   typhimurium does not cause P-2 mRNA induction in MEF (Fig. 27a). In contrast, heat
   killed or PhoP mutant Salmonella induce P-2 mRNA in MEF to a similar extent as E.
   coli suggesting that S. typhimurium actively suppresses P-2 induction. Similarly,
20 infection of HeLa cells with the obligate intracellular bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis
   does not induce P-2 expression. Moreover, P-2 induction by exogenous IFN is actively
   suppressed via a mechanism that requires de novo chlamydial protein synthesis (Fig.
   27b). EPEC can block endocytosis but phagocytic cells can overcome this inhibition
   (Fig. 27c). Endocytosed EPEC are protected from Perforin-2 only when they carry the
25 Cif plasmid (Fig. 27d) that encodes a deamidase that inactivates NEDD8, a ubiquitin-like
   molecule. NEDD8 is required for the activation of cullin-ring ubiquitin E3-ligases
   (CRLs) that participate in many fundamental cellular pathways, including NFiB
   activation. Neddylation is carried out by the NEDD8 specific E2-ligase Ubcl2. The
   cytoplasmic domain of P-2 interacts with Ubc 12 in the yeast two hybrid system and is
30 co-immunoprecipitated with P-2 (supplemental Fig. 27) suggesting that Ubc12 mediated
   neddylation of a CRL is required for Perforin-2 mediated killing and that CIF blocks this
   step.
           As shown in Table 2, keratinocytes constitutively express Perforin-2 mRNA and
   protein suggesting a contribution to the barrier function of skin against infection. We
                                                      66

   examined the level of P-2 expression in the dermis and epidermis of 10 patients with
   non-healing chronic skin ulcers with high bacterial burden. Excisional surgical
   debridement of the wound and wound edges was performed as part of standard care.
   Subsequently, the excised skin was divided into wound-adjacent and normal skin
 5 adjacent halves, separated into dermis and epidermis and P-2 mRNA levels quantitated
   by TaqMan-PCR. Perforin-2 mRNA levels were approximately 35 fold lower in
   epidermal cells on skin adjacent to the chronic ulcer compared to normal skin-adjacent
   cells. In contrast, in the underlying dermis the ratio of P-2 mRNA was in the opposite
   direction with P-2 mRNA levels four fold higher near the wound (Fig. 27d). The data
10 show that in chronic skin ulcers with high bacterial burden P-2 levels are affected and
   may be associated with delayed healing.
   Perforin-2 enhances the bactericidalactivity of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species
            The current paradigm suggests that intracellular bacteria are killed by reactive
   oxygen and nitrogen species and by fusion of the phagocytosed bacteria with the
15 lysosome. Here we analyze the bactericidal efficiency of each effector pathway and their
   synergism. We blocked each effector individually and determined intracellular survival
   and replication or killing of intracellular S. typhimurium and M smegmatis. These
   experiments were carried out with intestinal epithelial cells (CMT93) (not shown) and in
   IFN-y activated PEM (Fig. 27e) with virtually identical results. First, we ascertained that
20 IFN-y activated and LPS stimulated PEM produced ROS and NO and that this
   production is not affected by P-2 siRNA knock down. We also ascertained that the ROS
   and NO inhibitors used were specific and active in blocking ROS or NO (not shown).
   PEM are able to kill about 90% of intracellular Salmonella in the first four hours after
   infection when all three effectors were active in scramble siRNA transfected cells (Fig.
25 27e, solid lines). Knock down of P-2 completely abolished the bactericidal activity
   against Salmonella and allowed their intracellular replication (Fig. 27e, dashed lines).
   Additional inhibition of ROS and NO with NAC and NAME had no further effect. In the
   presence of P-2 (scramble siRNA, blue and green solid lines) inhibition of ROS or NO
   also significantly diminished the bactericidal activity but in the presence of P-2 bacterial
30 replication was still blocked. M smegmatis is more resistant to killing by bactericidal
   effectors within 4 hours. Nonetheless, Perforin-2 knock down significantly inhibited
   killing of M smegmatis and additional blockade of ROS or NO had no further effect.
   Blockade of ROS or NO without P-2 knock down had only limited, non-significant
   effects on bactericidal activity against Mycobacteria.In contrast, non-pathogenic
                                                      67

   laboratory E. coli K12 is sensitive to intracellular killing by ROS and NO even without
   P-2 although significantly less efficient than in the presence of P-2. The data indicate that
   Perforin-2 synergizes with reactive oxygen and nitrogen species and with lysozyme as
   shown previously and that bacteria are differentially susceptible to individual effectors.
 5 Perforin-2 translocatesto the bacterium containingvacuole.
           In the absence of infection, Perforin-2 is stored embedded in the membranes of a
   perinuclear vesicle compartment (Fig. 28b). Therefore, in order to kill, Perforin-2 must
   be transported to the site of bacterial infection. Perforin-2 has a short, highly conserved
   cytoplasmic domain which can interact with cytoplasmic proteins that trigger P-2
10 translocation and polymerization (Fig. 28a). Mutation of Y to F (indicated by red arrow
   in Fig. 28a) blocks the bactericidal activity of P-2 suggesting an important function for
   P-2 activation (not shown).
           We tested Perforin-2 translocation to the bacterium containing vacuole by
   confocal microscopy. In these experiments endogenous Perforin-2 in BV2 cells was
15 knocked down and reconstituted with P-2-GFP by transient transfection. BV2 were
   infected with Salmonella that actively invade cells by inducing endocytosis (Fig. 28b). In
   this experiment bacteria are imaged by staining of bacterial DNA with DAPI (shown in
   white for better visibility) and colocalization is imaged with P-2-GFP. Five minutes after
   infection several salmonellae are already endocytosed and apparently lysed as suggested
20 by a 'cloud' of DAPI staining of released DNA endocytosed salmonellae. Three 1.24
   thick slices show the number lysed salmonellae (8) and the size of diffuse DNA
   containing endocytic vesicles revealed by DAPI and P-2-GFP. One intact salmonella
   stained by DAPI (arrow) is still seen outside the cell as rod like structure in the bottom
   section (left panels) but not in the top two 1.24 sections. We also analyzed transiently P
25 2-RFP transfected BV2 by infection with GFP-marked E. coli for P-2 translocation.
   Within five minutes of infection P-2 was found on the membrane of the bacterium
   containing vacuole and on the bacterium (Fig. 28b). The fluorescence intensity suggests
   that Perforin-2 is highly enriched at this site suggesting specific targeting mechanisms.
   The bacteria appear fragmented and have released GFP detectable as diffuse
30 fluorescence within the vacuole. The data indicate that Perforin-2 translocation to the
   bacterium containing vacuole is complete within minutes of infection and is associated
   with fragmentation of bacteria inside the vacuole and release of their DNA consistent
   with P-2-attack and pore-formation on bacterial cell walls.
                                                      68

   Perforin-2forms -90A pores in bacterialcell walls
           The finding that Perforin-2 accumulates within minutes of infection on
   membranes enclosing bacteria with its effector domain pointing towards the lumen
   suggests that Perforin-2 may deliver the lethal hit to bacteria by polymerizing in their
 5 cell wall and creating water filled pores that enhance the penetration of other bactericidal
   factors, similar to the cytotoxic mechanisms of complement C9 and Perforin-1. We
   determined the ability of Perforin-2 to form pores which has not previously been
   reported. We reasoned that Perforin-2 monomers similar to C9 or Perforin- 1 monomers
   are not cytotoxic and that pore formation requires P-2 polymerization via specific
10 interaction of the cytoplasmic domain of P-2 with as yet unknown signaling proteins.
   The cytoplasmic domain of Perforin-2 contains a conserved RKYKKK (SEQ ID NO:4)
   sequence (Fig. 28a, blue arrows) next to the transmembrane domain which may function
   as proteolytic cleavage site to trigger P-2 polymerization on the opposite side of the
   membrane. This was tested by purifying Perforin-2-GFP bearing membranes from P-2
15 GFP transfected HEK293 cells by differential centrifugation and treating them briefly
   with low levels of trypsin to cleave the cytoplasmic domain (not shown). Eletron
   microscopic examination of trypsin treated Perforin-2-GFP-membranes show typical
   transmembrane pores with an average inner diameter of 85-95A (Fig. 29a, white arrows).
   In addition half-ring, 8-shaped, and more irregular structures formed by fusion of
20 Perforin-2 during polymerization (black arrows) are consistent with a polymerization
   process that continues until termination by ring closure. As with C9 and Perforin-1, ring
   closure may be blocked by steric hindrance of membrane proteins. Untransfected cells
   did not have such pores (not shown). These data directly show that Perforin-2 is indeed a
   pore-forming transmembrane protein potentially able to form pores on bacterial cell
25 walls inside vacuoles. Since Perforin-2 is a membrane protein with the MACPF domain
   pointing into the lumen of a vesicle, pore formation will occur in membranes touching
   the MACPF domain inside the vesicle.
            To test that P-2-pores are assembled on killed bacteria, we obtained intracellular
   bacteria from IFN activated, Perforin-2-sufficient MEF three hours after infection by
30 hypotonic non-ionic detergent lysis. Bacterial cell walls, unlike phospholipid bilayers,
   are resistant to lysis by mild detergents and are obtained by centrifugation and imaged by
   electron microscopy. On M smegmatis cell walls many clustered pores of about 90A are
   seen (Fig. 29b white arrows), frequently with irregular structures (black arrows). Steric
   hindrance by rigid M smegmatis cell walls appears to frequently interfere with ring
                                                     69

     closure of the Perforin-2-polymer resulting in more irregular polymers. Surface staining
     by negative stain of M smegmatis cell walls outside the pores is minimal, consistent with
     the known hydrophobicity of the cell wall of mycobacteria. The cell walls of S. aureus in
     contrast appear more hydrophilic than mycobacterial cell walls by allowing the negative
   5  stain to adhere. S. aureus cell walls are more rigid than phospholipid membranes,
     judging by the irregularity (black arrows) and varying size of Perforin-2 pores (Fig. 29c).
     Materials and Methods
     PlasmidConstructs
     The complete coding region of murine mpeg] cDNA was constructed from several EST
  10  clones and inserted into the pEGFP-N3 plasmid (Clontech). Monomeric RFP (R.
      Flavell, Yale) was cloned in place of GFP for use in some experiments.
      Cell lines and PrimaryCells
      RAW264.7, J774, HL-60, and HEK-293 cell lines were obtained from ATCC. BV2
     microglial cell line was a gift from Dr. J. Bethea, University of Miami. All cells were
  15  cultured at 370 C in a humidified atmosphere containing 5% CO 2 following ATCC
      recommendations. HL-60 were differentiated toward PMN phenotype using retinoic
      acid as previously described. Murine primary macrophages were obtained from
     thioglycolate-elicited peritoneal or bone marrow as previously described. Human
      macrophage and PMNs were isolated from fresh healthy donor PBMC. Human
 20   macrophages were differentiated from monocytes as described previously and human
      PMN were isolated as previously described. Murine embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) were
      isolated as previously described.
1.    Bacterial Strains:
2.   S. typhimurium strain LT2Z (gift from Dr. G. Plano, University of Miami), K12 E. coli,
 25   and methicillin-resistant S. aureus (gift from Dr. L. Plano, University of Miami) were
      grown in Luria broth (LB).
3.   M avium intracellulare(gift from Dr. T. Cleary, University of Miami), and M
     smegmatis (ATCC) were grown in Middlebrook 7H9 broth.
 30   Chemicals and cytokines
      Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was purchased from Sigma and used at a final concentration
      of 1 ng/ml. Recombinant human and murine IFN-y was purchased from Peprotech and
     used at a final concentration of 100 U/ml. N-acetyl cystine and L-NAME were both
     purchased from Sigma.
                                                        70

   Antibodies
   Rabbit anti-Mpegl, human anti-Mpegl, and anti-GFP polyclonal antibodies were
   obtained from Abcam and used for western blot analysis. Rabbit anti-Perforin-2
   (cytoplasmic domain) antiserum was produced and obtained by 2lt Century.
 5 qRT-PCR
           RNA was extracted from cells following RNeasy (Qiagen) instructions. One pig
   of RNA was converted to cDNA using QuantiTect Reverse Transcription kit (Qiagen)
   following the supplier's protocol. qRT-PCR was performed using Taqman@ Gene
   Expression Assays (Applied Biosystems) for murine mpegl, GAPDH, and            p-Actin.  For
10 human tissue, human mpegl, GAPDH, and          p-Actin probes were utilized.  All assays
   were performed on the Applied Biosystems 7300 PCR platform.
   Gentamicinprotection assay
           Intracellular bactericidal activity was adapted from. In brief, bacteria were grown
   at 37*C with shaking for 16-18 hours in Luria broth (LB) (S. typhimurium, S. aureus, and
15 E. coli) or 24 hours in Middlebrook 7H9 broth (Mycobacteria)prior to infection. For S.
   typhimurium, E. coli, and S. aureus the culture was then diluted 1:33 in LB and grown
   for another 3 hours to allow the bacteria to enter log phase and for Salmonella to induce
   the invasive phenotype. Eukaryotic cells were transfected following Lonza's optimized
   protocol for the respective cells, and plated into 12-well plates post-transfection. HL-60
20 cells differentiated with RA were not stimulated; RAW264.7 cells were stimulated for 14
   hours with LPS (1 ng/ml) and IFN-y (100 U/ml) to differentiate toward a macrophage
   lineage; all other cells were stimulated with species-specific IFN-y (100 U/ml). Cells
   were infected at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) between 10 and 60 for 30 minutes (S.
   typhimurium) or 1 hour (S. aureus, E. coli, and M smegmatis) in a 370 C, 5% CO 2
25 incubator. After infection, cells were washed twice with ice-cold PBS and fresh medium
   containing 50 pg/ml gentamicin was added. After 2 hours, the medium was changed to
   decrease the concentration of gentamicin to 5 pig/ml. At indicated time points, cells were
   washed with PBS, lysed using 1%Igepal in ddH 20, diluted and plated in triplicates on
   LB agar plates (S. typhimurium, S. aureus, E. coli) or Middlebrook 7H1 1 plates
30 (Mycobacteria)and CFU determined after colony growth.
   Gentamicin-free intracellularbacterialkilling assay
           The gentamicin protection assay was modified to create the gentamicin free
   intracellular bacterial killing assay. The modifications to the above included plating
   eukaryotic cells to achieve a confluence of 90-100% on infection, and decreased
                                                     71

   multiplicity of infection (MOI) to between 5 and 15. Invasion times were left unchanged
   with 30 minutes for S. typhimurium and 1 hour for S. aureus,E. coli, and M smegmatis
   and with infection occurring in a 37'C, 5%CO 2 incubator. To ensure maximal
   elimination of extracellular bacteria, wash steps were altered such that cells were washed
 5 twice with ice-cold PBS, trypsinized to help eliminate extracellular bacterial attachments,
   and washed an additional 3 times with ice-cold PBS. Every four hours, media was
   removed and the cells were washed twice with PBS and then fresh media added back. At
   indicated time points, cells were washed three times with PBS and lysed utilizing 1%
   Igepal in ddH 20, diluted and plated in triplicates on LB agar plates (S. typhimurium, S.
10 aureus, E. coli) or Middlebrook 7H1 1 plates (Mycobacteria)and CFU determined after
   colony growth.
   RNA Interference
           For murine cells, three Perforin-2-specific chemically synthesized 19-nucleotide
   siRNA duplexes were obtained from Sigma. Two siRNAs were complementary to the 3'
15 UTR of Perforin-2 and the third complementary to the coding region. The sequences
   were as follows: CCACCUCACUUUCUAUCAA (SEQ ID NO:1),
   GAGUAUUCUAGGAAACUUU                  (SEQ ID NO:2), and CAAUCAAGCUCUUGUGCAC
   (SEQ ID NO:3). A scramble siRNA was also generated to serve as a control to the
   reaction. For human cells, three human Perforin-2-specific silencer select siRNAs were
20 purchased from Ambion (Invitrogen) Silencer Select #s61053, s47810, s61054. Silencer
   select negative control #2 from Ambion (Invitrogen) was also used. Transfection of
   siRNA into all cells was carried out using Amaxa Nucleofector System (Lonza)
   according to manufacturer's instructions. All transfections were carried out using 1
   4x10 6 cells, a final concentration of 300 nM siRNA (Perforin-2-specific siRNAs were
25 pooled) and 2 ptg of plasmid DNA where indicated. Immediately after transfection, cells
   were plated in antibiotic-free complete medium.
   Negative Staining Transmission ElectronMicroscopy
   Eukaryotic cell membranes: membranes were isolated from stably transfected Perforin
   2-GFP HEK-293 cells by N2-cavitation and differential centrifugation. Membranes were
30 resuspended in a small volume of neutral Tris-buffered saline, treated with 100 tg/ml
   trypsin for 1 hour at 370 C, washed and negatively stained with 5%neutral Na
   phosphotungstate for 30 seconds. Images were taken at 52,000-fold initial magnification
   on a Phillips CM10 transmission electron microscope.
                                                      72

   Bacterialmembranes: MEF were stimulated for 14 hours with IFN-7 (100 U/mL) and
   infected with the indicated bacterial strains at a multiplicity of infection of 30 for 5
   hours. Prokaryote membranes were harvested through lysing MEFs with 1%Igepal in
   ddH 20. The lysate was centrifuged at 200g for 10 minutes to pellet intact bacteria, intact
 5 bacteria were subsequently sheared with a polytron to disrupt intact bacteria and separate
   out the membranes. The resulting pellet was treated with 100 pg/ml trypsin for 1 hour at
   37*C, sedimented and resuspended in minimal ddH2 0 and negatively stained with 3%
   uranyl formate for 30 seconds. Images were taken between 52,000 to 168,000-fold
   initial magnification on a Phillips CM10 transmission electron microscope.
10 Confocal Microscopy
            For Perforin-2-GFP localization, RAW264.7 cells were transiently transfected
   with Perforin-2-GFP and stimulated overnight with LPS (1 ng/ml) and IFN-y (100 U/ml)
   in glass bottom dishes with No. 1.5 coverglass (MatTek Corp). Cells were washed once
   with PBS and organelles were labeled. For endoplasmic reticulum (ER) labeling, we
15 used ER-TrackerTM Blue-White DPX (Invitrogen) at a working concentration of 1 pLM
   for 30 minutes at 37'C. For all other stains, transfected cells were fixed with 3%
   paraformaldehyde (PFA) for 15 minutes at room temperature, permeabilized with 0.5%
   saponin, blocked with 10% normal goat serum and incubated with primary and
   secondary antibodies. Anti-CD 107a (LAMP-1) (BD Pharmingen), anti-CD11 b (BD
20 Pharmingen), anti-golgin97 (Invitrogen), anti-EEA1 (Calbiochem), anti-GM130 (BD
   biosciences), and Hoechst 33258 (Invitrogen) were used to identify cellular organelles.
   Secondary antibodies were all raised in goat. Specimens were kept in PBS and imaged
   at room temperature on a Leica SP5 inverted confocal microscope with a motorized stage
   and Leica DFC495 camera. Images were analyzed using Leica application suite
25 advanced fluorescence software and deconvolution processing was applied.
           For Perforin-2-RFP and E. coli localization imaging, BV2 cells were co
   transfected with Perforin-2-RFP and siRNA targeting the 3'UTR of endogenous
   Perforin-2 and stimulated overnight with IFN-y (100 U/ml) after adhering to coverslips.
   Cells were infected at an MOI of 100 by GFP-E coli for 5 minutes at which point the
30 cells were washed twice with PBS and fixed with 3% PFA for 15 minutes at room
   temperature. Individual coverslips were mounted to slides utilizing Vectashield
   Mounting Media and imaged at room temperature on a Leica SP5 inverted confocal
                                                      73

   microscope with a motorized stage and Zeiss LSM710 inverted confocal microscope.
   Images were analyzed using Leica application suite advanced fluorescence software.
           Leica SP5 confocal microscope used a plan-apochromat 63x/1.4NA objective
   lens, 405, 488, 561 nm lasers (633 nm laser if you included Cy5 or Alexa Fluor 647).
 5 Pixel size was set to 60 nm, to obtain 2D Nyquist sampling (diffraction limit 214 nm for
   500 nm light).
           Zeiss LSM710 confocal microscope used a plan-apochromat 63x/1.4NA
   objective lens, 405, 488, 561 nm lasers (633 nm laser if you included Cy5 or Alexa Fluor
   647). Pixel size was set to 60 nm, to obtain 2D Nyquist sampling (diffraction limit 214
10 nm for 500 nm light).
   Example 5: Define function ofRASA2/GAP]MP-2-interactionin clearanceof
   intracellularbacteria
           P-2 siRNA knock down of P-2 in macrophages, microglia, mEF , HeLa and other
15 freshly explanted cells or cell lines blocks killing and clearance of intracellular bacteria,
   including pathogenic Salmonella typhimurium, Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus
   Aureus (MRSA), Mycobacterium smegmatis (Fig. 30 A) and Mycobacterium avium (not
   shown) determined in the gentamycin protection assay and also in the absence of
   antibiotics (not shown). In Fig. 30 rectal epithelial cells (A) or mouse embryonal
20 fibroblasts (mEF) (B), were transiently transfected 24h before infection with a pool of 2
   siRNAs specific for the 3'UTR of P-2 or with control scrambled siRNA which knocks
   down P-2 RNA and protein (Fig. 31 C); for P-2 complementation (B) the cells are co
   transfected with P-2 siRNA and knock-down resistant P-2-RFP (not expressing the
   3'UTR of endogenous P-2) or with control RFP. P-2-RFP is a fusion protein tagged at
25 the C-terminus of P-2 with monomeric DsRed (RFP). Transfected P-2-RFP is fully
   active in bacterial killing (Fig. 30 B,C). At -16h IFN-y is added to induce P-2 mRNA
   (which is suppressed when P-2 siRNA is present). At time 0 the cells are infected for 30
   60min with pathogenic MRSA, Salmonella typhimurium or Mycobacterium smegmatis at
   a multiplicity of infection (MoI) of 30-50 bacteria per cell. After intracellular infection,
30 extracellular bacteria are washed away in PBS and the cells replated in gentamycin to
   prevent extracellular replication of bacteria. The host cells are lysed with mild detergent
   (NP40) immediately after infection and at several time points later and surviving bacteria
                                                      74

   enumerated by replicate colony forming assays. Mild detergents lyse host cell
   membranes but not bacterial cell walls.
            In rectal epithelial cells (Fig. 30) control-scramble siRNA transfection does not
   affect P-2 and does not inhibit the ability of the epithelial cells to kill intracellular
 5 bacteria while P-2 siRNA blocks killing and allows intracellular replication killing the
   host cell. P-2-RFP expression in addition to endogenous P-2 increased bacterial killing
   (Fig. 30 A). When endogenous P-2 is knocked-down, complementation with P-2-RFP
   restores killing (Fig. 30 B). As would be expected for an innate defense mechanism P-2
   is able to kill bacteria with very diverse outer cell walls such as Gram-negative
10 Salmonella, Gram-positive Staphylococci and acid fast Mycobacteria.
            ROS and NO are effectors known to kill intraphagosomal bacteria. We therefore
   directly compared the effect of blocking either P-2 or ROS (with NAC) or NO (with
   NAME) on the bactericidal activity of IFN-y activated peritoneal macrophages for
   Salmonella typhimurium, Mycobacteriaand MRSA (Fig. 31). Data are similar for all
15 bacteria and are shown for S. typhimurium In Fig.3 1. When P-2, ROS and NO are not
   inhibited there is excellent intracellular killing (line labeled in Fig. 31 P-2, ROS, NO). In
   the absence of P-2, bacteria replicate despite ROS and NO. Inhibition of ROS with NAC
   or NO with NAME slows down the killing activity, suggesting that both ROS and NO
   enhance P-2 mediated killing.
20          The data show that P-2 is critical for killing of intracellular pathogenic bacteria,
   because in the absence of P-2 the bacteria replicate in the cell (Fig. 30 and Fig. 31, red
   ROS, NO curve). This is a critical difference. Continued replication of bacteria kills the
   host cell and, in vivo, would spread the infection to other cells. We have data showing
   that all phagocytic and non-phagocytic human and mouse cells and cell lines tested to
25 date use Perforin-2 to eliminate intracellular bacteria (Table 2). Non-phagocytic cells use
   autophagy to clear intracellular bacteria. Our data indicate the P-2 may cooperate with
   autophagy to deliver the lethal hit to bacteria.
            P-2-GFP is a transmembrane protein localized in resting BV2 (Fig 32a, two top
   panels) and RAW cells (Fig 33) in perinuclear membrane-vesicle compartments. P-2
30 GFP (green) colocalizes in part with orange RASA2 (seen as yellow) (Fig 32a and 33).
   LC3-RFP (red) is more homogeneous than RASA2 or P-2. The nucleus is shown in blue
   by DAPI staining.
                                                        75

           Salmonella actively invade cells within 5 minutes by triggering endocytosis with
   the type III secretion system. Bacteria can be visualized by DAPI (DNA) staining shown
   in white (for better visibility) in all lower panels in Fig.32a. Intact extracellular
   Salmonella have rod like appearance (white arrows). After 5 minutes incubation of IFN
 5 activated BV2 (macrophage-derived microglia) with Salmonella typhimurium, several
   Salmonella are seen endocytosed by the cell and have already released their DNA
   (asterisks in DAPI and P-2-GFP panels, compare morphology to extracellular Salmonella
   indicated by arrow) most likely because they have been killed by P-2-GFP. The
   internalized bacteria are in a vacuole whose membrane stains with P-2-GFP, RASA-2
10 and LC3-GFP. In this experiment endogenous P-2 had been knocked down with siRNA
   and reconstituted with transfected P-2-GFP. The transfection mix also contained LC3
   RFP. Similar data are shown for E. coli (Fig. 32b). These data directly support that P-2
   mediates killing of intravacuolar bacteria and that RASA2 participates in P-2
   translocation and that LC3 as marker for autophagy implicates autophagy in P-2
15 mediated killing of intracellular bacteria.
           These data were collected with phagocytic cells; we now wish to determine these
   mechanisms in non-phagocytic cells which rely on autophagy for bacterial clearance.
   The studies are likely to link P-2 to autophagy and provide a molecular mechanism for
   the lethal hit in autophagy.
20          Endocytosed bacteria initially are close to the plasma membrane where auto
   phagy is initiated within minutes of infection. Rab5 on the bacterium containing vacuole
   recruits vps34, the autophagy associated P13-kinase. Generation of PI3P and PI(3,4,5)P3
   is required for maturation of the vacuole to phagosomes and autophagosomes,
   respectively. We propose that RASA2 binds to PIP3 on the vacuole by translocation
25 from perinuclear membranes. RASA2 may provide the molecular switch that is typical
   for RasGTPases function in a large number of signaling pathways. RASA2 could provide
   this switch for P-2-vesicle transport and translocation to the vacuole. Rab5 which recruits
   vps34 to the vacuole may also transport P-2 but other mechanisms are also possible.
   Imaging analysis of Perforin-2 and GAP]M/RASA2 in mEF and BV2 microglia.To
30 validate in cells RASA2 interacting with the cytoplasmic domain of P-2 in the yeast two
   hybrid system, we determined localization of the two proteins in RAW macrophages.
   Macrophages express P-2 constitutively. To determine colocalization we generated a P
   2-GFP fusion protein, fused via a linker to the C-terminus of the cytoplasmic domain of
   P-2. P-2-GFP is functional in killing of intracellular bacteria in complementation assays
                                                       76

    (Fig. 30 B, Fig. 31). P-2-GFP is localized in perinuclear membrane vesicles of RAW
    cells (Fig. 33, top) similar to RASA2 (Fig 33, center). When merging the images P-2
    GFP and RASA2 appear colocalized on a large number of perinuclear vesicles (Fig. 33,
   bottom). We propose that RASA2 translocates to the bacterium containing vacuole upon
 5 vps34 phosphorylation.
            We will determine RASA2 localization and translocation upon bacterial
   infection. RASA2 is expressed in most or all cells constitutively (albeit at different
   levels) and its localization can be determined by specific antibodies (see Fig. 33). After
   having determined kinetics of RASA2 translocation following infection, we will
10 transfect with P-2-GFP (or-RFP) as in Fig 32 and measure P-2 translocation and its
   relation to RASA2 translocation by two and three color (using fluorescent-labeled
   bacteria) imaging analysis.
            Rab5 recruits the P13-kinase vps34 from its cytoplasmic and perinuclear
    localization to the bacterium containing vacuole. Vps34 via phospatidyl-inositol
15 phosphorylation may provide the inositol-phosphate code for RASA2 translocation. We
   will determine whether the vps34 inhibitor 3-MA blocks translocation of RASA2 and P
   2. We will determine the effect of bacterial infection on the intracellular location of
   RASA2 in BV2, naive mEF or IFN-preactivated mEF. Intracellular bacteria manipulate
   vesicle transport to enhance their intracellular survival. Salmonella increases PI3P
20 generation for the generation of a Salmonella containing vacuole (SCV) allowing
   survival while Mycobacteria decrease PI3P generation to prevent maturation of the
   vacuole and fusion with lysosomes. Different bacterial species therefore may be able to
   manipulate RASA2 translocation with the potential consequence of delaying or blocking
   P-2 recruitment to the vacuole.
25          We will compare translocation in BV2 microglia with naYve (resting) mEF and
   IFN-preactivated mEF to determine whether bacterial endocytosis triggers similar
   responses and whether pre-activation of mEF with IFN changes the kinetics or quality of
   the response with regard to RASA2 translocation. IFN induces a large number of genes
   that may include factors in naYve non-phagocytic cells that are required for P-2's function
30 in attacking intracellular bacteria. As shown in Fig. 34a (left panel) IFN-pre-activated
   mEF have killed most M. smegmatis within 2h post infection while naYve mEF begin
   killing only by 12h. This kinetics of RASA2 translocation may reflect this delay as well.
            We will also knock down Rab5 and vps34 and determine the effect on RASA2
   translocation and intracellular killing of bacteria in the CFU assay.
                                                      77

            We anticipate that IFN-pre-activated mEF will be comparable to phagocytic BV2
   in the mechanisms of P-2 translocation and activation for killing. If RASA2 recruitment
   and translocation is required, it is expected to be similar in activated mEF and BV2. In
   naive mEF the recruitment of RAS2A2 and P-2 may not be synchronized because P-2
 5 must first be induced. Live but not dead Salmonella blocks induction of P-2 mRNA (Fig.
   34b) in mEF providing a mechanism of protection of Salmonella in non-phagocytic cells.
   In separate studies we are studying the virulence genes of S. typhimurium (see PhoP as
   an example, Fig.34b) that are responsible for P-2 suppression. We have also data that
   Chlamydiae suppress P-2 induction (data not shown). These findings support our
10 proposal that bacteria must suppress P-2 if they want to set up intracellular residence.
            To obtain further insight into the early events after bacterial infection we will also
   image Rab5 and vps34 which we expect to translocate to the bacterial vacuole.
           Analysis of the effect of RASA2 siRNA knock down on killing of intracellular
   bacteria.Blockade of any molecule that is required for P-2 induction, recruitment,
15 translocation, activation or polymerization is expected to also block killing of
   intracellular bacteria. If RASA2 is required for P-2 translocation, activation and/or
   killing, then its knock-down should inhibit killing of intracellular bacteria. This was
   tested in initial experiments in BV2 microglia cells killing intracellular M smegmatis
   (Fig. 35a). RASA2 knock down completely blocked intracellular killing similar to P-2
20 knock down and allowed intracellular replication suggesting that RASA2 is important for
   killing of intracellular bacteria.
            In addition RabI, Rab5, Rab7 and Rabl 1 and vps34 will be knocked down and
   the effect on bacterial killing determined in the gentamycin protection assays.
            The requirement for RASA2 will be further tested in IFN pre-activated and un
25 activated (naYve) mEF and rectal epithelial cells CMT93 by measuring RASA2 message
   levels by qPCR. We will also analyze intracellular killing or survival of MRSA, M
   smegmatis and S. typhimurium following siRNA knockdown in the gentamycin
   protection-CFU-assay.
           Biochemical interactionof P-2 with RASA2 by coimmunoprecipitation.We will
30 immunoprecipitate BV2- and mEF-lysates with anti RASA2 monoclonal antibody,
   separate by SDS-PAGE and immunoblot with anti P-2 antibody. The studies will also be
   carried out following P-2-GFP transfection and immunoprecipitation with anti GFP and
   immunoblotting with anti GFP and anti RASA2 (as in Fig.35b), respectively. GFP
   transfection (no P-2 fusion) will serve as control (not shown). The experiments will be
                                                      78

   carried out with and without IFN pre-induction and also with or without bacterial
   infection. We will also look for additional protein bands by protein staining of P-2-GFP
   immunoprecipitates and characterize them by mass spectrometry. GFP
   immunoprecipitates will serve as controls. We will also undertake mutational analysis of
 5 the cytoplasmic domain of P2 and mutation of RASA2.
           Direct biochemical interaction between P-2-GFP and RASA2 has now been
   verified by coimmunoprecipitation in P-2-GFP transfected RAW cells (Fig 35b) which
   will allow us to undertake the mutational experiments (GFP control, not shown, did not
   coimmunoprecipitate RASA2). This will enable us to probe the immunoprecipitates for
10 the presence of Rab5 or vsp34 and autophagy proteins (aim 2) which may be in complex
   with P-2/RASA2. We will also analyze P-2-GFP immunoprecipitates (using GFP
   precipitates as control) by SDS PAGE followed by protein staining of the gel to
   determine the presence of protein bands that do not correspond to the components
   mentioned so far. If additional bands are present, we will analyze them by mass
15 spectrometry and determine their identity.
   Mutational analysis of RASA2 in bacterialkilling. RASA2 has two C2 domains (C2A
   and C2B) in the N-terminal segment followed by the RasGap domain and the PH/Btk
   domain towards the C-terminus. C2 domains are protein structural domains involved in
   targeting proteins to cell membranes, however their function in RASA2 has not been
20 explored. The PH-Btk domains are required for PIP binding. RASA-2 binds to soluble
   IP(3,4,5)P3, PI(1,3,4,5,6)P5, IP6, but not to IP(1,4,5)P3; RASA2 also binds to
   Ptdlns(3,4,5)P3, indicating that inositol-3 phosphorylation is required for its binding.
   Whether RASA2 binds PtdlnsP(3)P which is constitutively synthesized by vps34 on
   endogenous membranes is not known.
25         To examine the role of the functional domains of RASA2 in bacterial killing and
   in P-2 translocation to the bacterium containing vacuole (Fig. 32), we will delete
   functional domains: AC2A, AC2B, AC2A,B, ARasGAP, APH-Btk. For the analysis
   endogenous RASA2 will be knocked down with siRNA targeting the 3'UTR and the
   cells reconstituted with the deletion construct of RASA2 that lacks the 3'UTR (as in Fig.
30 30 shown for P-2-RFP).
    Effect of bacterialspecies on P-2 and RASA2 translocation.P-2-translocation in Fig. 35
   was done by infection with S. typhimurium and the lab strain E. coli K12. We will also
   determine translocation of w.t and mutated P-2 and w.t and mutated RASA2,
                                                     79

   respectively, with Salmonella and Mycobacteria and other bacteria. Mycobacteria
   interfere with PI3P generation and vacuole maturation. The Salmonella type3 secretion
   effector SopB has multiple effects on PI3P that interfere with vacuole maturation and
   enhance intracellular survival in the salmonella containing vacuole, SCV. Changes in
 5 PI3P on the salmonella containing vacuole may affect both P-2 and RASA2 translocation
   in comparison to E. coli.
           We expect both, the PH-Btk domain and the RasGap domain of RASA2 to be
   essential for bacterial killing. Translocation of RASA2 to the bacterium-containing
   vacuole upon PIP3 generation is expected. RasGap usually acts as switch regulator and
10 may function in translocation of P-2 to the bacterium containing vacuole. RasGap or the
   C2 domains may be required for P-2/RASA2 interactions which will be assayed by
   coimmunoprecipitation and by yeast two hybrid analysis.
           In subsequent studies we will use RASA2 and its deletion mutants as bait in a
   yeast two hybrid screens to identify additional candidates assisting RASA2 function,
15 such as Rabs and vacuolar sorting nexins.
   Mutationalanalysis of the cytoplasmic domain of P-2-RFP. The conserved (highlighted)
   amino acids in the mouse P-2 cytoplasmic sequence are (RKYKKK- SEQ ID NO:4)
   followed by a conserved Y, then an acidic EIEEQE (SEQ ID NO:5) followed by a
   conserved S and an additional S close to the C-terminus (Fig. 28a). Several kinase
20 families were identified using algorithms for potential phosphorylation sites. We propose
   that the cytoplasmic domain of P-2 receives signals upon bacterial infection that provide
   for P-2 translocation to the bacterium containing vacuole and for P-2 polymerization to
   deliver lethal hits to bacterial cell walls. We will mutate (a) KYKK (SEQ ID NO:7) to
   QYQQ (SEQ ID NO:8); (b) the conserved Y to F and (c) the two conserved S to A
25 (blocking) or D (constitutively active) (see Fig. 28a). We have already established that
   the Y to F mutation in P-2-RFP is stably expressed as determined by flow cytometry but
   abolishes bacterial killing activity when used for complementing siRNA knock down of
   endogenous P-2,
           We will determine the effect of P-2-RFP mutations on expression and stability,
30 on bacterial killing and on translocation of P-2 to bacteria containing vacuoles. In
   addition we will determine the effect of P-2 mutation on interaction with RASA2 by
   coimmunoprecipitation (Fig. 35b) and on potential RASA2 translocation to the
   bacterium containing vacuole.
                                                      80

            Mutation of KYKK to QYQQ or of the conserved Y to F (Fig. 28a) in P-2-RFP
   results in loss of P-2-RFP killing activity but normal levels of expression by flow
   cytometry (data not shown). In these experiments endogenous P-2 was knocked down by
   transfection with siRNA specific for the 3'UTR of endogenous P-2 and concurrent
 5 transfection with mutated P-2-RFP plasmid-cDNA lacking the native 3'UTR. Interaction
   of mutated P-2 with RASA2 will be determined by coimmunoprecipitation (Fig. 35b).
   Mutation of the conserved S to D (imitating phosphorylation) increased P-2 killing
   activity (data not shown). Other mutations will delete increasing parts of the C-terminal
   sequence and analyze function in killing and and RASA2 interaction. We anticipate that
10 mutations that result in failure of P-2 interaction with RASA2 will block P-2 mediated
   killing. However, there may be mutations that do not interfere with RASA2 interaction
   but still block P-2 function. The latter effect may be due functions of the cytoplasmic
   domain that trigger P-2 polymerization but do not affecting RASA2 interaction and
   translocation.
15
   Example 6: Analysis of autophagy as the link to P-2-mediatedkilling of intracellular
   bacteria.
            Autophagy (Xenophagy) is activated by infection. The intracellular initiation site
   of autophagy is defined by phosphorylation of inositol at the 3-position to PI(3,4,5)P3
20 and PI3P by the vps34 complex which defines the nucleation site of the phagophore that
   grows into the autophagosome.
            After infection RAB5 recruits the P13-kinase vps 34 to the bacterium containing
   vacuole that phosphorylates the 3-position of inositol to generate PI(3,4,5)P2 and PI(3)P.
   The gef for autophagy membrane-vesicle transport is the TRAPPIII complex and we will
25 study interaction of its components withVps34, RASA2, P-2 and Rabl. Vps34
   phosphorylation allows binding of RASA2 potentially together with interacting P-2 (Fig.
   35b) and also serves as nucleation site for the incipient autophagosome in non
   phagocytic cells. In phagocytic cells the same sequence may bring RASA and P-2 to the
   bacterium containing vacuole which matures into the phagosome. Pathogenic bacteria
30 such as Salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium and Mycobacterium tuberculosis have
   virulence genes that manipulate these early steps in autophagy or phagosome maturation.
            LC3 is an excellent marker for autophagy in mammalian cells associated with
   early and late autophagosomes. LC3 ligation to phosphatidyl-ethanolamine is catalyzed
   by the E3 like Atg16L-Atg17-Atg5 complex. The Atg16L-complex is also required for
                                                      81

    formation of the autophagy double membrane together with Atg9Ll that is required to
   prevent intracellular replication of S. typhimurium in mEF. The final step is acidification
   and fusion with lysosomes. We propose that P-2 is recruited to the autophagosome and
   may be colocalized with LC3 (Fig. 32).
 5          Define the entry point of P-2 into the autophagosome.Autophagy is mediated by
   the stepwise assembly of the autophagy membrane and subsequent fusion with
   lysosomes. We propose that during infectious autophagy P-2 is recruited to the bacterium
   containing vacuole and/or incipient autophagosome, where it delivers the lethal hit to
   bacteria while remaining tethered to the P-2-membrane through the transmembrane
10 domain (see Fig.28a). P-2 killed bacteria bear cell wall pores strongly suggesting per
   foration by Perforin-2-polymerization (Fig 37). MRSA obtained from mEF by detergent
   lysis 4h after infection and analyzed by electron microscopy show typical 90A cell wall
   pores (left panel, Fig. 36) similar in size to P-2-pores on eukaryotic membranes (right
   panel, Fig. 36). Putative P-2 pores are also present on cell walls of mEF-killed
15 mycobacteria (data not shown). P-2 pores may facilitate penetration of ROS, NO and
   lysozyme across bacterial cell walls to complete killing. According to our proposal of a
   P-2/autophagy link, blocking of autophagy at steps prior to recruitment of P-2 will block
   bacterial killing. Blocking autophagy steps after P-2 has been recruited and polymerized
   will not impair killing. Atgl4L is the targeting component of the vps34 P13-kinase
20 complex in autophagy. Similar to P-2 knock-down, siRNA knock-down of Atgl4L
   blocks killing of Mycobacteria in BV2 despite the presence of fully active P-2 (Fig. 37).
            BV2 are phagocytic cells. The data in Fig. 37 suggest that vps34/Atg14L is
   required for killing of bacteria by phagocytic cells similar to its requirement in mEF (Fig
   38b) that rely on autophagy. The early steps in phagocytosis and autophagy of bacteria
25 may be similar and reflect a common mechanism for P-2 recruitment in non-phagocytic
   and phagocytic cells. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that P-2 is the effector
   for killing of bacteria by both, autophagy and phagocytosis. P-2 is recruited,
   respectively, together with initiation of autophagy or initiation of vacuole maturation into
   the phagosome.
30          To further define the point of entry of P-2 into the autophagosome, we will knock
   down Atg5 and Atg16L1, components of autophagy required for conjugation of LC3 to
   phosphatidyl-ethanolamine on autophagy-membranes.
            The data in Fig 38 suggest that Atgl4L (Fig 38b), Atgl6L (Fig 38c) and Atg5
   (Fig 38d) are required for killing and keeping Salmonella bacteriostatic, in agreement
                                                      82

   with. Their knock-down allows intracellular Salmonella replication in mEF. Atgl4L also
   is required to prevent Salmonella replication in mEF (Fig. 38). Atgl4L is a component of
   the P13-kinase-vps34 complex which initiates autophagy. To confirm the involvement of
   vps34-PI3-kinase enzymatic activity, we will use P13-kinase blockers, Wortmannin or
 5 the more selective vps34 inhibitor 3-methyl-adenine (3-MA), both of which are known to
   block autophagy. 3-MA similar to P-2 knock down permits Salmonella replication
   suggesting that the enzymatic activity of vps34 is required for intracellular killing of
   bacteria. In contrast, Bafilomycin does not interfere with bactericidal/ bacteriostatic
   activity. Bafilomycin prevents acidification and lysosome fusion, which is not required
10 for killing of Salmonella by mEF (Fig. 39).
            Both, P-2 knock down and autophagy blockade prevent intracellular killing of
   bacteria allowing their replication in mEF. The simplest explanation for this finding is
   that that both processes are required for bacterial control and may be linked. P-2 may
   deliver the lethal hit to bacteria in concert with autophagy. The data in Fig 37-39 place P
15 2 action after Atgl4L-vps34 but before phagosome-lysosome fusion. Knock down of
   Atg5 or Atgl6L allows replication of Salmonella in mEF in agreement with published
   reports. Atg5 is required as part of the Atgl6L complex ligating LC3 to phosphatidyl
   ethanolamine. Therefore, LC3 lipidation may be required for P-2 mediated killing of
   Salmonella. The Atgl6L complex together with Atg9L1 is also required for formation of
20 the double membrane. The absence of Atg9LI in knockout mEF promotes intracellular
   Salmonella replication. Atg9LI may be one of the main lipid-vesicle donors required
   together with the Atgl6L complex for formation of the autophagy double membrane
   which is decorated with LC3. Atg9 is a multi-spanning membrane protein residing in
   300-600A diameter membrane vesicles present in the cytoplasm that, in yeast, are
25 derived from the Golgi complex with the help of Atg23 and Atg27. Homologues of yeast
   Atg23 and 27 have not been described in mammals. Atg9L1 is the mammalian
   homologue of yeast Atg9. It is possible that the transmembrane protein P-2 (Fig. 28a) is
   recruited by RASA-2 together with Atg9L 1-vesicles to the bacterium containing vacuole
   in a process that requires Atg 16 and LC3 and initiates formation of the double
30 membrane. P-2-vesicles could fuse with Atg9L1-vesicles or be recruited separately by
   the same transport pathway that may include RASA2, Rab5 or Rab7 and/or other
   components.
                                                       83

   Define P-2 translocationand LC3 in autophagyby imaging. Fig 32 shows examples of
   P-2 translocation to the bacterium containing vacuole within 5min of infection. In that
   experiment endogenous P-2 was knocked down with siRNA and at the same time the
   cells transfected with P-2-RFP. 16h later the cells were infected with GFP-expressing E.
 5 coli K12 and fixed with paraformaldehyde 5min post infection and imaged by confocal
   microscopy. Fig. 32a shows that P-2 and LC3 are colocalized on the bacterium
   containing vacuole within 5 min of infection.
            To measure LC3 ligation to phagosomes or autophagosomes, we will per
   manently transfect mEF, BV2 and RAW with LC3-GFP. Our studies will focus primarily
10 on naYve and on IFN induced mEF; BV2 and Raw cells will be used as controls. Atg 5, 7,
   9L1, 14L or 16L will be knocked down and the cells infected with Salmonella, MRSA or
   Mycobacteria and the reaction stopped by fixation with.
   Study in IFN induced mEF the relationshipbetween P-2 andA TG9L1 in bacterialkilling
   by knock down and imaging. ATG9L1 is required for slowing intracellular replication of
15 Salmonella in mEF not induced to express P-2 by IFN. We have shown that bacteria will
   replicate in mEF when of P-2 is not present and in Fig 34b that Salmonella suppress P-2
   induction. We will therefore study the role of ATG9L1 by imaging in w.t. and ATGL I
   knock down cells, induced or not induced for P-2 expression. We will also look for
   coimmunoprecipitation with P-2-GFP or/and RASA2. Since ATG9L1 is a 6-membrane
20 spanning protein embedded in -60-90 nm lipid vesicles it is a potential candidate for
   interacting with P-2 and using similar translocation pathways.
                                                    84

    What is claimed is:
                 1. A method of modulating function, activity or expression of Perforin-2
    (P2) comprising: administering to a patient, an effective amount of at least one agent
  5 which modulates the function, activity or expression of one or more molecules associated
    with P2 expression, function or activity; and, modulating the function or expression of
    P2.
                 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more molecules associated
10  with P2 function, activity or expression comprise: src, ubiquitin conjugating enzyme
    E2M (Ubcl2), GAPDH, P21RAS/gaplm (RASA2), Galectin 3, ubiquitin C (UCHLl),
    proteasomes, vps34, ATG5, ATG7, ATG9L1, ATG14L, ATG16L, LC3, Rab5, or
    fragments thereof.
15               3. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecule inhibits transcription or
    translation of P2.
                 4. The method of claim 1, wherein an agent comprises: a small molecule,
    protein, peptide, polypeptide, modified peptides, modified oligonucleotides,
20  oligonucleotide, polynucleotide, synthetic molecule, natural molecule, organic or
    inorganic molecule, or combinations thereof.
                 5. A method of identifying a candidate therapeutic agent comprising:
    contacting a cell expressing one or more target molecules comprising: src, ubiquitin
25  conjugating enzyme E2M (Ubcl2), GAPDH, P21RAS/gaplm (RASA2), Galectin 3,
    ubiquitin C (UCHL1), proteasomes, vps34, ATG5, ATG7, ATG9L1, ATG14L,
    ATG1 6L, LC3, Rab5, or fragments thereof; measuring the expression, function or
    activity of the molecules; comparing the expression, function or activity of the molecules
    with a control; and, identifying a candidate therapeutic agent which modulates
30  expression, function or activity or Perforin-2.
                                                      85

               6. The method of claim 5, wherein the modulation of the expression, function
   or activity of one or more target molecules modulates the expression, function or activity
   of Perforin-2 (P2) molecules.
 5             7. The method of claim 5, wherein the target molecules are polynucleotides or
   expressed products thereof.
                8. A method of identifying a candidate therapeutic agent comprising:
   contacting an assay surface with one or more target molecules comprising src, ubiquitin
10 conjugating enzyme E2M (Ubc12), GAPDH, P2lRAS/gapIm (RASA2), Galectin 3,
   ubiquitin C (UCHL1), proteasomes, vps34, ATG5, ATG7, ATG9L1, ATG14L,
   ATG16L, LC3, Rab5, fragments or associated molecules thereof; contacting the target
   molecules with one or more candidate therapeutic agents and identifying the agents
   which bind or hybridize to one or more target molecules or associated molecules thereof.
15
               9. The method of claim 18, wherein the identified candidate therapeutic
   agents are assayed for modulation of expression, function or activity of Perforin-2
   molecules.
20              10. The method of claim 9, wherein the identified candidate agents are
   assayed for inhibition of replication, inhibition of growth, or death of an infectious
   organism.
                11. The method of claim 10, wherein the infectious organism is an
25 intracellular or extracellular bacterium.
                12. A method of treating a patient suffering from an infectious disease
   organism comprising, administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of
   an agent identified by the methods of claim 1 or claim 8.
30
                13. A transgenic mouse which comprises a disruption of a gene encoding a
   Perforin-2 protein.
                                                     86

                14. The transgenic mouse of claim 13, wherein said disruption comprises a
   heterozygous or homozygous disruption of said gene encoding a Perforin-2 protein.
                15. The transgenic mouse of claim 14, wherein said disruption comprises a
 5 homozygous disruption, wherein said homozygous disruption inactivates said gene and
   inhibits the expression of a functional Perforin-2 protein in said transgenic mouse.
                16. The transgenic mouse of any one of claims 13-15, wherein said
   transgenic mouse exhibits an increased susceptibility to infection by intracellular
10 pathogens as compared to a wild-type mouse.
                17. An organ, a tissue, a cell, or a cell-line derived from the transgenic mouse
   of any one of claims 13-15.
                                       University of Miami
15                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                                     87

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           14/41

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           15/41

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           16/41

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           17/41

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           18/41

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           21/41

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           25/41

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           27/41

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           28/41

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           29/41

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           30/41

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           31/41

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                            9416040_1
<removed-date>
                                                        SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110> DeAr mas , Les l ey
                    Ly api c hev , Ki r i l l
                    Mc Cor mac k , Ry an
                    Podac k , Ec k har d R.
              <120> Per f or i n- 2 Def ens e Agai ns t I nv as i v e and
                Mul t i dr ug Res i s t ant Pat hogens
              <130> 060569/ 430333
<removed-apn>
              <150> US 61/ 637455
              <151> 2012- 04- 24
              <160> 19
              <170> Fas t SEQ f or Wi ndows Ver s i on 4. 0
              <210>   1
              <211>   19
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Sy nt hes i z ed s i RNA
              <400> 1
              c c ac c uc ac u uuc uauc aa                                   19
              <210>   2
              <211>   19
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Sy nt hes i z ed s i RNA
              <400> 2
              gaguauuc ua ggaaac uuu                                         19
              <210>   3
              <211>   19
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Sy nt hes i z ed s i RNA
              <400> 3
              c aauc aagc u c uugugc ac                                      19
              <210>   4
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus mus c ul us
              <400> 4
              Ar g Ly s Ty r Ly s Ly s Ly s
               1                   5
              <210>   5
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus mus c ul us
                                                              Page 1

                                                            9416040_1
<removed-date>
              <400> 5
              Gl u I l e Gl u Gl u Gl n Gl u
               1                    5
              <210>   6
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus mus c ul us
              <400> 6
              Gl y Thr Ar g Ly s Ty r Ly s Ly s Ly s Gl u Ty r Gl n Gl u I l e Gl u Gl u
<removed-apn>
               1                  5                       10                        15
              <210>   7
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus mus c ul us
              <400> 7
              Ly s Ty r Ly s Ly s
               1
              <210>   8
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Sy nt hes i z ed
              <400> 8
              Gl n Ty r Gl n Gl n
               1
              <210>   9
              <211>   716
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 9
              Met As n As n Phe Ar g     Al a Thr I l e Leu Phe Tr p     Al a Al a Al a Al a    Tr p
                1                   5                        10                         15
              Al a Ly s Ser Gl y Ly s    Pr o Ser Gl y Gl u Met As p     Gl u Val Gl y Val      Gl n
                              20                        25                         30
              Ly s Cy s Ly s As n Al a   Leu Ly s Leu Pr o Val Leu       Gl u Val Leu Pr o      Gl y
                         35                        40                         45
              Gl y Gl y Tr p As p As n   Leu Ar g As n Val As p Met      Gl y Ar g Val Met      Gl u
                    50                        55                         60
              Leu Thr Ty r Ser As n      Cy s Ar g Thr Thr Gl u As p     Gl y Gl n Ty r I l e Ile
              65                         70                       75                          80
              Pr o As p Gl u I l e Phe   Thr I l e Pr o Gl n Ly s Gl n   Ser    As n Leu Gl u Met
                                   85                        90                          95
              As n Ser Gl u I l e Leu    Gl u Ser Tr p Al a As n Ty r    Gl n   Ser Ser Thr Ser
                              100                       105                          110
              Ty r Ser I l e As n Thr    Gl u Leu Ser Leu Phe Ser        Ly s   Val As n Gl y Ly s
                         115                       120                          125
              Phe Ser Thr Gl u Phe       Gl n Ar g Met Ly s Thr Leu      Gl n   Val Ly s As p Gl n
                    130                       135                        140
              Al a I l e Thr Thr Ar g    Val Gl n Val Ar g As n Leu      Val Ty r Thr Val Ly s
              145                        150                      155                       160
              I l e As n Pr o Thr Leu    Gl u Leu Ser Ser Gl y Phe       Ar g Ly s Gl u Leu Leu
                                   165                       170                        175
              As p I l e Ser As p Ar g   Leu Gl u As n As n Gl n Thr     Ar g Met Al a Thr Ty r
                                                              Page 2

                                                                9416040_1
<removed-date>
                                180                        185                       190
              Leu    Al a Gl u Leu Leu Val Leu       As n Ty r Gl y Thr Hi s     Val Thr Thr Ser
                           195                       200                         205
              Val    As p Al a Gl y Al a Al a Leu    I l e Gl n Gl u As p Hi s   Leu Ar g Al a Ser
                     210                       215                        220
              Phe    Leu Gl n As p Ser Gl n Ser      Ser Ar g Ser Al a Val       Thr Al a Ser Al a
              225                         230                        235                         240
              Gl y   Leu Al a Phe Gl n As n Thr      Val As n Phe Ly s Phe       Gl u Gl u As n Ty r
                                     245                        250                        255
              Thr    Ser Gl n As n Val Leu Thr       Ly s Ser Ty r Leu Ser       As n Ar g Thr As n
                                260                        265                        270
              Ser    Ar g Val Gl n Ser I l e Gl y    Gl y Val Pr o Phe Ty r      Pr o Gl y I l e Thr
                           275                       280                         285
<removed-apn>
              Leu    Gl n Al a Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y   I l e Thr As n Hi s Leu     Val Al a I l e As p
                     290                       295                        300
              Ar g   Ser Gl y Leu Pr o Leu Hi s      Phe Phe I l e As n Pr o     As n Met Leu Pr o
              305                         310                        315                        320
              As p   Leu Pr o Gl y Pr o Leu Val      Ly s Ly s Val Ser Ly s      Thr Val Gl u Thr
                                     325                        330                        335
              Al a   Val Ly s Ar g Ty r Ty r Thr     Phe As n Thr Ty r Pr o      Gl y Cy s Thr As p
                                340                        345                        350
              Leu    As n Ser Pr o As n Phe As n     Phe Gl n Al a As n Thr      As p As p Gl y Ser
                           355                       360                         365
              Cy s   Gl u Gl y Ly s Met Thr As n     Phe Ser Phe Gl y Gl y       Val Ty r Gl n Gl u
                     370                       375                        380
              Cy s   Thr Gl n Leu Ser Gl y As n      Ar g As p Val Leu Leu       Cy s Gl n Ly s Leu
              385                         390                        395                        400
              Gl u   Gl n Ly s As n Pr o Leu Thr     Gl y As p Phe Ser Cy s      Pr o Ser Gl y Ty r
                                     405                        410                        415
              Ser    Pr o Val Hi s Leu Leu Ser       Gl n I l e Hi s Gl u Gl u   Gl y Ty r As n Hi s
                                420                        425                        430
              Leu    Gl u Cy s Hi s Ar g Ly s Cy s   Thr Leu Leu Val Phe         Cy s Ly s Thr Val
                           435                       440                         445
              Cy s   Gl u As p Val Phe Gl n Val      Al a Ly s Al a Gl u Phe     Ar g Al a Phe Tr p
                     450                       455                        460
              Cy s   Val Al a Ser Ser Gl n Val       Pr o Gl u As n Ser Gl y     Leu Leu Phe Gl y
              465                         470                        475                        480
              Gl y   Leu Phe Ser Ser Ly s Ser        I l e As n Pr o Met Thr     As n Al a Gl n Ser
                                     485                        490                        495
              Cy s   Pr o Al a Gl y Ty r Phe Pr o    Leu Ar g Leu Phe Gl u       As n Leu Ly s Val
                                500                        505                        510
              Cy s   Val Ser Gl n As p Ty r Gl u     Leu Gl y Ser Ar g Phe       Al a Val Pr o Phe
                           515                       520                         525
              Gl y   Gl y Phe Phe Ser Cy s Thr       Val Gl y As n Pr o Leu      Val As p Pr o Al a
                     530                       535                        540
              Ile    Ser Ar g As p Leu Gl y Al a     Pr o Ser Leu Ly s Ly s      Cy s Pr o Gl y Gl y
              545                         550                        555                         560
              Phe    Ser Gl n Hi s Pr o Al a Leu     I l e Ser As p Gl y Cy s    Gl n Val Ser Ty r
                                     565                        570                         575
              Cy s   Val Ly s Ser Gl y Leu Phe       Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Leu       Pr o Pr o Al a Ar g
                                580                        585                        590
              Leu    Pr o Pr o Phe Thr Ar g Pr o     Pr o Leu Met Ser Gl n       Al a Al a Thr As n
                           595                       600                         605
              Thr    Val I l e Val Thr As n Ser      Gl u As n Al a Ar g Ser     Tr p I l e Ly s As p
                     610                       615                        620
              Ser    Gl n Thr Hi s Gl n Tr p Ar g    Leu Gl y Gl u Pr o I l e    Gl u Leu Ar g Ar g
              625                         630                        635                        640
              Al a   Met As n Val I l e Hi s Gl y    As p Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu     Ser Gl y Gl y Al a
                                     645                        650                        655
              Al a   Al a Gl y Val Thr Val Gl y      Val Thr Thr I l e Leu       Al a Val Val I l e
                                660                        665                        670
              Thr    Leu Al a I l e Ty r Gl y Thr    Ar g Ly s Phe Ly s Ly s     Ly s Al a Ty r Gl n
                           675                       680                         685
              Al a   I l e Gl u Gl u Ar g Gl n Ser   Leu Val Pr o Gl y Thr       Al a Al a Thr Gl y
                     690                       695                        700
              As p   Thr Thr Ty r Gl n Gl u Gl n     Gl y Gl n Ser Pr o Al a
              705                         710                        715
                                                                 Page 3

                                                             9416040_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   10
              <211>   717
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Bos t aur us
              <400> 10
              Met As n Ser Phe Ar g       Gl y Al a Phe Leu I l e Tr p    Al a Val Al a Thr      Tr p
                1                   5                          10                        15
              Al a Gl u Thr As p Thr      Ser Tr p Gl y Al a Thr As p     Gl u Pr o Gl y Phe     Gl n
                              20                          25                        30
              As n Cy s Ly s As n Al a    Leu Ly s Leu Pr o Val Leu       Pr o Val Leu Pr o      Gl y
                         35                          40                        45
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Gl y Tr p As p As n    Leu Ar g As n Val As p Thr      Gl y Ar g Val Met      Gl u
                    50                         55                         60
              Leu Al a Ty r Ser Hi s      Cy s Ar g Thr Thr Gl u As p     Gl y Gl n Ty r I l e Val
              65                          70                       75                          80
              Pr o As p Gl u I l e Phe    Thr I l e Pr o Gl n Ly s Gl n   Ser    As n Leu Gl u Met
                                   85                          90                         95
              As n Ser Ly s I l e Leu     Gl u Ser Tr p Val As n Ty r     Gl n   Ser Ser Thr Ser
                              100                         105                         110
              As n Ser I l e As n Met     Gl u Leu Ser Leu Phe Ser        Ly s   Val As n Gl y Ly s
                         115                         120                         125
              Phe Ser Leu Gl u Phe        Gl n Ar g I l e Ly s Thr Leu    Gl n   Val Ly s As p Gl n
                    130                        135                        140
              Al a Val Thr Thr Gl n       Val Gl n Val Ar g As n Leu      Val Ty r Thr Val Ly s
              145                         150                      155                         160
              I l e As n Pr o As p Al a   Gl u Leu Ser Leu Gl y Phe       Ly s Ly s Al a Leu Met
                                   165                         170                        175
              As p I l e Ser Gl u Gl n    Leu Gl u As n As n Gl n Thr     Ar g Met Al a Thr Ty r
                              180                         185                        190
              Leu Al a Gl u Leu Leu       Val Leu As n Ty r Gl y Thr      Hi s Val I l e Thr Ser
                         195                         200                       205
              Val As p Al a Gl y Al a     Al a Leu I l e Gl n Gl u As p   Hi s I l e Ar g Ser Ser
                    210                        215                        220
              Phe Leu Gl n As p Ser       Gl n Ser Ser Ar g Ser Al a      Val Thr Al a Ser Al a
              225                         230                      235                         240
              Gl y I l e Thr Phe Leu      As n I l e Val As n Phe Ly s    Phe Gl u Gl u As n Ty r
                                   245                         250                        255
              Thr Ser Gl n As n Thr       Phe Thr Ly s Ser Ty r Leu       Ser As n Ar g Thr As n
                              260                         265                        270
              Ser Ar g Val Gl n Ser       Phe Gl y Gl y Leu Pr o Phe      Ty r Pr o Gl y I l e Thr
                         275                         280                       285
              Leu Gl n Al a Tr p Gl n     Gl n Gl y Val Ser As n Hi s     Leu Val Al a Met As p
                    290                        295                        300
              Ar g Al a Gl y Leu Pr o     Leu Ty r Phe Phe I l e As n     Pr o Gl u Ar g Leu Pr o
              305                         310                      315                         320
              As p Leu Pr o Gl y Pr o     Leu Val Ar g Ly s Leu Ser       Ly s Thr Val Gl u Al a
                                   325                         330                        335
              Al a Val Ar g Ar g Ty r     Ty r Al a Val As n Thr Ty r     Pr o Gl y Cy s Thr As p
                              340                         345                        350
              Leu Ser Ser Pr o As n       Phe As n Phe Gl n Al a As n     Thr As p As p Gl y Ser
                         355                         360                       365
              Cy s Gl u Gl y Ly s Met     Thr As n Phe Ser Phe Gl y       Gl y Val Ty r Gl n Gl u
                    370                        375                        380
              Cy s Thr Gl n Phe Ser       Gl y As n Gl u Val Val Gl n     Leu Cy s Gl n As n Leu
              385                         390                      395                         400
              Gl u Gl n Ly s As n Pr o    Leu Thr Gl y Ser Val Ser        Cy s Pr o Ser Gl y Ty r
                                   405                         410                        415
              Ser Pr o Val Gl n Leu       Leu Thr Gl n Thr Hi s Gl u      Gl u Gl y Ty r As n Hi s
                              420                         425                        430
              Leu Gl u Cy s Ser Ar g      Ly s Cy s Thr Leu Ty r I l e    Phe Cy s Ly s Thr Val
                         435                         440                       445
              Cy s Gl u As p Val Phe      Ar g Val Al a Ar g Al a Gl u    Phe Ar g Al a Phe Tr p
                    450                        455                        460
              Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y     Gl n Val Ser Gl u As n Ser      Gl y Leu Leu Phe Gl y
              465                         470                      475                         480
              Gl y Leu Phe Ser Gl y       Ly s Ser I l e As n Pr o Leu    Thr As n Al a Gl n Ser
                                                                Page 4

                                                                9416040_1
<removed-date>
                                     485                        490                         495
              Cy s Pr o   Al a Gl y Ty r Phe Gl n     Leu Ly s Leu Phe Gl u As n      Leu Ly s Val
                               500                          505                       510
              Cy s Al a   Ser Leu As p Ty r Gl u      Leu Gl y Ty r Ar g Phe Ser      I l e Pr o Phe
                          515                         520                      525
              Gl y Gl y   Phe Phe Ser Cy s Al a       Al a Gl y As n Pr o Leu Val     As p Ser Al a
                   530                         535                        540
              Thr Ser     Ly s As p Leu Gl y Al a     Pr o Ser Leu Ar g Ly s Cy s     Pr o Gl y Gl y
              545                         550                        555                        560
              Phe Ser     Gl n Hi s Leu Al a Leu      I l e Ser As p Gl y Cy s Gl n   Val Ser Ty r
                                     565                        570                        575
              Cy s Val    Ly s Al a Gl y Leu Phe      Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Pr o      Pr o Val Ar g
                               580                          585                       590
<removed-apn>
              Leu Pr o    Pr o Ty r Thr Ar g Pr o     Pr o Leu Met Ser Gl n Val       Al a Thr As n
                          595                         600                      605
              Thr Val     Leu Val Thr As n Hi s       Gl u Thr Al a Ser Ser Tr p      I l e Ly s As p
                   610                         615                        620
              Pr o Gl n   Thr Hi s Gl n Tr p Ar g     Leu Gl y Gl u Pr o Leu Gl u     Leu Ar g Ar g
              625                         630                        635                        640
              Al a Met    Ar g Val Val Hi s Gl y      As p Gl y Gl u Gl y Leu Ser     Gl y Gl y Al a
                                     645                        650                        655
              Al a Al a   Gl y Leu Thr Leu Gl y       Val Thr I l e Al a Leu Al a     Gl y Val Val
                               660                          665                       670
              Al a Leu    Al a I l e Ty r Gl y Al a   Ar g Ly s Ser Ar g Ly s Ly s    Gl y Ty r Gl n
                          675                         680                      685
              Al a Leu    Gl n As p Gl u Ly s Gl n    Ser Leu Al a Al a Gl y Al a     Al a Val As n
                   690                         695                        700
              Gl y As p   Al a Leu As p Gl n Gl u     Gl n Al a Gl n As n Pr o Al a
              705                         710                        715
              <210>   11
              <211>   715
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Cani s f ami l i ar i s
              <400> 11
              Met Ser Ser Val Ar g        Gl y Al a I l e Leu Phe Tr p    Val Val Val Al a       Tr p
                1                   5                         10                         15
              Al a Ly s Thr As p Ly s     Pr o Leu Gl u Gl n Thr As n     Gl u Thr Gl y Phe      Gl n
                             20                           25                        30
              Ly s Cy s Ly s As n Al a    Leu Ly s Leu Pr o Val Leu       Gl u Val Leu Pr o      Gl y
                         35                         40                         45
              Gl y Gl y Tr p As p As n    Leu Ar g As n Val As p Met      Gl y Ar g Val Met      As p
                    50                         55                         60
              Leu Thr Ty r Ar g Ser       Cy s Ar g Thr Thr Gl u As p     Gl y Gl n Ty r I l e Ile
              65                          70                       75                          80
              Pr o As p Gl u I l e Thr    Ser I l e Al a Gl n Ly s Gl n   Ser    As n Leu Gl u Met
                                   85                         90                          95
              As n Ser Gl u I l e Leu     Gl u Ser Tr p Val As n Ty r     Gl n   Ser Ser Thr Ser
                             100                          105                         110
              Ser Ser I l e As n Leu      Gl u Leu Ser Leu Ty r Ser       Ly s   Val As n Gl y Ly s
                         115                        120                          125
              Phe Ser Ser As p Phe        Gl n Gl n Met Ly s Thr Leu      Gl n   Val Ly s As p Gl n
                    130                        135                        140
              Al a I l e Thr Thr Ar g     Val Gl n I l e Ar g As n Leu    I l e Ty r Thr Val Ly s
              145                         150                      155                         160
              I l e As n Ser Al a Ser     Ly s Leu Ser Tr p Gl y Phe      Ly s Ly s As p Leu Met
                                   165                        170                         175
              As p I l e Ser As p Ar g    Leu Gl u As n As n Gl n Thr     Ar g Met Al a Thr Ty r
                             180                          185                        190
              Leu Al a Gl u Leu Leu       Val Leu As n Ty r Gl y Thr      Hi s Val Val Thr Ser
                         195                        200                         205
              Val As p Al a Gl y Al a     Al a Leu Leu Gl n Gl u As p     Hi s I l e Ar g Al a Ser
                    210                        215                        220
              Phe Leu Gl n As p Ser       Gl n Ser Ser Hi s Thr Al a      Val Thr Al a Ser Al a
              225                         230                      235                         240
              Gl y Val Al a Phe Met       As n Val Val As n Ty r Ly s     Phe Gl u Gl u As n Ty r
                                                               Page 5

                                                                 9416040_1
<removed-date>
                                      245                        250                        255
              Thr Ser      Gl n As n Al a Leu Thr Ly s      Ser Ty r Leu Al a As n     Ar g Thr Hi s
                                 260                        265                        270
              Ser Ar g     Val Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Gl y     Val Pr o Phe Ty r Pr o     Gl y I l e Thr
                           275                       280                        285
              Leu Gl n     Al a Tr p Gl n Gl n Ser I l e    Al a As n Hi s Leu Val     Al a I l e As p
                   290                          295                        300
              Ar g Al a    Gl y Leu Pr o Leu Pr o Phe       Phe I l e Ser Pr o As p    Thr Leu Pr o
              305                          310                        315                        320
              Gl u Leu     Pr o Gl y Pr o Leu Val Ly s      Ly s Leu Ser Ly s Thr      Val Gl u Al a
                                      325                        330                        335
              Al a Val     Ar g Hi s Ty r Ty r Al a Phe     As n Thr Ty r Pr o Gl y    Cy s Thr As p
                                 340                        345                        350
<removed-apn>
              Al a As n    Ser Pr o As n Phe As n Phe       Gl n Al a As n Thr As p    As p Gl y Ser
                           355                       360                        365
              Cy s Gl u    Gl y Ly s Met Thr As n Phe       Ser Phe Gl y Gl y Val      Phe Gl n Gl u
                   370                          375                        380
              Cy s Thr     Gl n Leu Ser Gl y Ly s Gl u      Al a Al a Gl n Leu Cy s    Gl n Thr Leu
              385                          390                        395                        400
              Gl u Gl n    Ar g As n Pr o Leu Thr Gl y      Al a Phe Ser Cy s Pr o     Ser Gl y Ty r
                                      405                        410                        415
              Ser Pr o     I l e Hi s Leu Leu Ser Gl n      Val Hi s Gl u Gl u Gl y    Ty r As n Hi s
                                 420                        425                        430
              Leu Gl u     Cy s Ar g Ar g Ly s Cy s Thr     Leu Leu Val Phe Cy s       Ly s Thr Val
                           435                       440                        445
              Cy s Gl u    As p Val Phe Ar g Val Al a       Ly s Al a Gl u Phe Ar g    Al a Phe Tr p
                   450                          455                        460
              Cy s Val     Al a Ser Gl y Gl n I l e Pr o    Gl u As n Ser Gl y Leu     Leu Phe Gl y
              465                          470                        475                        480
              Gl y Leu     Phe Ser Gl y Ly s Thr I l e      As n Pr o Leu Thr As n     Al a Gl n Ser
                                      485                        490                        495
              Cy s Pr o    Al a Gl y Ty r Phe Pr o Leu      Ar g Leu Phe Gl u As n     Leu Ly s Val
                                 500                        505                        510
              Cy s Al a    Ser Leu As p Ty r Gl u Leu       Gl y Phe Ar g Phe Ser      Val Pr o Phe
                           515                       520                        525
              Gl y Gl y    Phe Phe Ser Cy s Al a Val        Gl y As n Pr o Leu Val     As n Ser Al a
                   530                          535                        540
              Phe Thr      Gl u Gl y Al a Pr o Ser Leu      Ly s Ly s Cy s Pr o Gl y   Gl y Phe Ser
              545                          550                        555                        560
              Gl n Hi s    Leu Al a Leu I l e Ser As p      Gl y Cy s Gl n Val Ser     Ty r Cy s Val
                                      565                        570                        575
              Ly s Ser     Gl y Leu Phe Thr Gl y Gl y       Ser Leu Pr o Pr o Al a     Ar g Leu Pr o
                                 580                        585                        590
              Pr o Ty r    Thr Ar g Pr o Pr o Leu Met       Ser Gl n Al a Al a Thr     As n Thr Val
                           595                       600                        605
              I l e Val    Thr As n Ser Gl u Thr Al a       Ser Ser Tr p I l e Ly s    As p Ser Gl n
                    610                         615                        620
              Thr Ar g     Gl n Tr p Ar g Leu Gl y Gl u     Pr o Leu Gl u Leu Ar g     Ar g Al a Met
              625                          630                        635                         640
              Ly s Val     I l e Ar g Gl y As p Gl y Gl y   Gl y Leu Ser Gl y Gl y     Al a Al a Al a
                                      645                        650                         655
              Gl y Val     Thr Met Gl y Val Thr Thr         Val Leu Al a Al a Val      I l e Al a Leu
                                 660                        665                        670
              Al a I l e   Ty r Gl y Thr Ar g Ly s Ty r     Ly s Ly s Ar g Gl y Ty r   Gl n Al a Leu
                           675                       680                        685
              Gl u As p    Gl u Ar g Gl n Ser Leu Al a      Al a Gl y Thr Al a Gl u    Ser Gl y As p
                   690                          695                        700
              Al a Pr o    Gl y Gl n Gl u Gl n Gl u Gl n    Ser Pr o Al a
              705                          710                        715
              <210>   12
              <211>   720
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus mus c ul us
              <400> 12
              Met Al a Ly s Thr I l e Cy s Al a Met As n Ser Phe Met Al a Leu Val Leu
                                                          Page 6

                                                                  9416040_1
<removed-date>
                1                      5                          10                         15
              I l e Tr p Met I l e   I l e Al a Cy s Al a Gl u    Al a As p Ly s Pr o Leu    Gl y Gl u
                             20                            25                         30
              Thr Gl y Thr Thr       Gl y Phe Gl n I l e Cy s     Ly s As n Al a Leu Ly s    Leu Pr o
                         35                           40                         45
              Val Leu Gl u Val       Leu Pr o Gl y Gl y Gl y      Tr p As p As n Leu Ar g    As n Val
                    50                          55                           60
              As p Met Gl y Ar g     Val Met As p Leu Thr         Ty r Thr As n Cy s Ly s    Thr Thr
              65                           70                           75                        80
              Gl u As p Gl y Gl n    Ty r I l e I l e Pr o As p   Gl u Val Ty r Thr I l e    Pr o Gl n
                                     85                           90                         95
              Ly s Gl u Ser As n     Leu Gl u Met As n Ser        Gl u Val Leu Gl u Ser      Tr p Met
                              100                          105                        110
<removed-apn>
              As n Ty r Gl n Ser     Thr Thr Ser Leu Ser          I l e As n Thr Gl u Leu    Al a Leu
                        115                           120                        125
              Phe Ser Ar g Val       As n Gl y Ly s Phe Ser       Thr Gl u Phe Gl n Ar g     Met Ly s
                   130                          135                          140
              Thr Leu Gl n Val       Ly s As p Gl n Al a Val      Thr Thr Ar g Val Gl n      Val Ar g
              145                          150                          155                       160
              As n Ar g I l e Ty r   Thr Val Ly s Thr Thr         Pr o Thr Ser Gl u Leu      Ser Leu
                                     165                          170                        175
              Gl y Phe Thr Ly s      Al a Leu Met As p I l e      Cy s As p Gl n Leu Gl u    Ly s As n
                             180                           185                        190
              Gl n Thr Ly s Met      Al a Thr Ty r Leu Al a       Gl u Leu Leu I l e Leu     As n Ty r
                        195                           200                        205
              Gl y Thr Hi s Val      I l e Thr Ser Val As p       Al a Gl y Al a Al a Leu    Val Gl n
                   210                          215                          220
              Gl u As p Hi s Val     Ar g Ser Ser Phe Leu         Leu As p As n Gl n As n    Ser Gl n
              225                          230                          235                       240
              As n Thr Val Thr       Al a Ser Al a Gl y I l e     Al a Phe Leu As n I l e    Val As n
                                     245                          250                        255
              Phe Ly s Val Gl u      Thr As p Ty r I l e Ser      Gl n Thr Ser Leu Thr       Ly s As p
                              260                          265                        270
              Ty r Leu Ser As n      Ar g Thr As n Ser Ar g       Val Gl n Ser Phe Gl y      Gl y Val
                         275                          280                        285
              Pr o Phe Ty r Pr o     Gl y I l e Thr Leu Gl u      Thr Tr p Gl n Ly s Gl y    I l e Thr
                    290                         295                          300
              As n Hi s Leu Val      Al a I l e As p Ar g Al a    Gl y Leu Pr o Leu Hi s     Phe Phe
              305                          310                          315                       320
              I l e Ly s Pr o As p   Ly s Leu Pr o Gl y Leu       Pr o Gl y Pr o Leu Val     Ly s Ly s
                                     325                          330                        335
              Leu Ser Ly s Thr       Val Gl u Thr Al a Val        Ar g Hi s Ty r Ty r Thr    Phe As n
                             340                           345                        350
              Thr Hi s Pr o Gl y     Cy s Thr As n Val As p       Ser Pr o As n Phe As n     Phe Gl n
                        355                           360                        365
              Al a As n Met As p     As p As p Ser Cy s As p      Al a Ly s Val Thr As n     Phe Thr
                   370                          375                          380
              Phe Gl y Gl y Val      Ty r Gl n Gl u Cy s Thr      Gl u Leu Ser Gl y As p     Val Leu
              385                          390                          395                       400
              Cy s Gl n As n Leu     Gl u Gl n Ly s As n Leu      Leu Thr Gl y As p Phe      Ser Cy s
                                     405                          410                        415
              Pr o Pr o Gl y Ty r    Thr Pr o Val Hi s Leu        Leu Ser Gl n Thr Hi s      Gl u Gl u
                             420                           425                        430
              Gl y Ty r Ser Ar g     Leu Gl u Cy s Ly s Ly s      Ly s Cy s Thr Leu Ly s     I l e Phe
                        435                           440                        445
              Cy s Ly s Thr Val      Cy s Gl u As p Val Phe       Ar g Val Al a Ly s Al a    Gl u Phe
                   450                          455                          460
              Ar g Al a Ty r Tr p    Cy s Val Al a Al a Gl y      Gl n Val Pr o As p As n    Ser Gl y
              465                          470                          475                      480
              Leu Leu Phe Gl y       Gl y Val Phe Thr As p        Ly s Thr I l e As n Pr o   Met Thr
                                     485                          490                        495
              As n Al a Gl n Ser     Cy s Pr o Al a Gl y Ty r     I l e Pr o Leu As n Leu    Phe Gl u
                             500                           505                        510
              Ser Leu Ly s Val       Cy s Val Ser Leu As p        Ty r Gl u Leu Gl y Phe     Ly s Phe
                        515                           520                        525
              Ser Val Pr o Phe       Gl y Gl y Phe Phe Ser        Cy s I l e Met Gl y As n   Pr o Leu
                   530                          535                          540
              Val As n Ser As p      Thr Al a Ly s As p Val       Ar g Al a Pr o Ser Leu     Ly s Ly s
                                                                    Page 7

                                                               9416040_1
<removed-date>
              545                         550                       555                          560
              Cy s Pr o Gl y Gl y Phe     Ser Gl n Hi s Leu Al a Val I l e      Ser As p Gl y    Cy s
                                   565                         570                        575
              Gl n Val Ser Ty r Cy s      Val Ly s Al a Gl y I l e Phe Thr      Gl y Gl y Ser    Leu
                              580                         585                        590
              Leu Pr o Val Ar g Leu       Pr o Pr o Ty r Thr Ly s Pr o Pr o     Leu Met Ser      Gl n
                         595                         600                        605
              Val Al a Thr As n Thr       Val I l e Val Thr As n Ser Gl u       Thr Al a Ar g    Ser
                   610                          615                     620
              Tr p I l e Ly s As p Pr o   Gl n Thr As n Gl n Tr p Ly s Leu      Gl y Gl u Pr o Leu
              625                         630                       635                        640
              Gl u Leu Ar g Ar g Al a     Met Thr Val I l e Hi s Gl y As p      Ser As n Gl y Met
                                   645                         650                        655
<removed-apn>
              Ser Gl y Gl y Gl u Al a     Al a Gl y I l e Thr Leu Gl y Val      Thr I l e Al a Leu
                              660                         665                        670
              Gl y Val Val I l e Thr      Leu Al a I l e Ty r Gl y Thr Ar g     Ly s Ty r Ly s Ly s
                         675                         680                        685
              Ly s Gl u Ty r Gl n Gl u    I l e Gl u Gl u Gl n Gl u Ser Leu     Val Gl y Ser Leu
                   690                          695                     700
              Al a Thr As p Al a Thr      Val Leu As n Gl y Gl u Gl u As p      Pr o Ser Pr o Al a
              705                         710                       715                       720
              <210>   13
              <211>   718
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Dani o r er i o
              <400> 13
              Met Ly s Ser Ar g      Al a Phe Hi s Leu Leu       Met Leu Cy s Cy s Phe I l e     Ser
               1                       5                         10                        15
              Val Cy s As n Leu      Hi s Pr o Leu I l e Ar g    Pr o As n As n Gl y Leu Ar g    Leu
                             20                           25                          30
              Cy s Ar g Ly s As n    Ser Ser Leu Thr Al a        Leu Gl u Val Leu Pr o Gl y      Gl y
                        35                           40                          45
              Gl y Tr p As p As n    Leu Ar g As n I l e As p    Met Gl y Ar g Val Met As n      Leu
                   50                           55                          60
              Ser Ty r Ser Gl n      Cy s Gl n Thr Thr Gl u      As p Gl y Val Ty r Leu I l e    Pr o
              65                           70                         75                         80
              As p Gl u Val Phe      Val I l e Pr o Gl n Ly s    Val Ser Gl y Val Gl u Thr       As n
                                     85                          90                        95
              Ser Gl u I l e I l e   Met Ser Tr p Leu Gl u       Gl n Ly s Ser Ser Thr Ser       Ser
                             100                          105                         110
              Ser Val As n Al a      As p Val Ser Phe Phe        Ser Val Leu As n Al a Ly s      Phe
                        115                          120                         125
              Ser Thr Gl u As n      Gl n Ar g Met Ly s Thr      Hi s Gl n Val Ly s Gl u Gl y    Ser
                   130                          135                         140
              Val Thr Al a Ar g      Val Gl n Val Ar g As n      Hi s Leu Ty r Thr Val Ly s      Al a
              145                          150                        155                        160
              Ty r Pr o As p Phe     Thr Leu As p Ser Ar g       Phe Al a Ly s Gl n Al a Gl u    Gl u
                                     165                         170                       175
              I l e Al a As p Al a   I l e Gl u As n As n Gl n   Thr Ar g Hi s Al a As n Ty r    Leu
                              180                         185                         190
              Ser Gl u Ly s Leu      Val Leu As p Ty r Gl y      Thr Hi s Val I l e Thr Ser      Val
                         195                         200                         205
              As p Al a Gl y Al a    Thr Leu Val Gl n Gl u       As p Ty r Leu Ly s Met Ser      Ty r
                    210                         215                         220
              I l e Ser As n Ser     Gl n Ser As p Ly s Ser      Ser Val Ser Al a Ser Al a       Gl y
              225                          230                        235                        240
              Al a As n Phe Phe      As p Ly s Val Ly s Phe      As p I l e Gl y Gl y As n Thr   Ser
                                     245                         250                       255
              Gl n Gl y Ser Ser      Gl n Ser Ser Ser Ty r       Gl n Gl y As n I l e Thr Ty r   Ser
                             260                          265                         270
              Leu I l e Gl n Ser     Hi s Gl y Gl y Al a Leu     Phe Ty r Pr o Gl y I l e Thr    Leu
                        275                          280                         285
              Gl n Ly s Tr p Gl n    Gl n Ser Thr Leu As n       As n Leu Al a Al a I l e As p   Ar g
                   290                          295                         300
              Ser Gl y Leu Pr o      Leu Hi s Ty r Phe Leu       As n Pr o Ser Thr Phe Pr o      As p
                                                                  Page 8

                                                               9416040_1
<removed-date>
              305                         310                        315                          320
              Leu Pr o Thr Pr o Thr       Val As n Ly s Leu Al a Ser Thr         Val Ar g Ly s    Al a
                                   325                         330                         335
              Al a Gl u Ar g Ty r Ty r    Ly s Val As n Thr I l e Pr o Gl y      Cy s Val As n    Val
                              340                         345                         350
              As p Ser Pr o As n Phe      As n Phe Gl n Al a As n Val As p       As p Al a Ser    Cy s
                        355                         360                          365
              Gl u Gl y Pr o I l e Thr    As n Leu Ser Phe Gl y Gl y I l e       Ty r Gl n Ly s   Cy s
                    370                        375                        380
              Thr Pr o Leu Thr Pr o       As p Gl y As n I l e I l e Cy s As p   Gl u Thr Al a Gl n
              385                         390                        395                        400
              Ly s As n Pr o Al a Thr     Gl y Gl y Ty r Ser Cy s Pr o Gl n      Hi s Ty r As n Thr
                                   405                         410                         415
<removed-apn>
              Thr Leu Leu Hi s Ser        Gl u Val Val Gl u Ly s Gl y Phe        As n Hi s Ty r Gl u
                              420                         425                         430
              Cy s Hi s Thr Hi s Cy s     Hi s Ser Cy s Gl y Phe Leu Gl y        Leu Ser Thr Cy s
                        435                         440                          445
              Cy s As p Ly s Thr Cy s     Gl y As p Ser Ty r Hi s Val Ar g       Ar g Al a Ly s Leu
                    450                        455                        460
              Gl u Thr Leu Tr p Cy s      Ser Ser Thr Hi s Ly s Thr Pr o         Gl u As n Ser Gl y
              465                         470                        475                        480
              Ty r Leu Phe Gl y Gl y      Leu Phe Gl y Pr o Gl y I l e Gl n      As n Pr o Leu Thr
                                   485                         490                          495
              Ly s Ser Ser Ser Cy s       Pr o Pr o Ser Ty r Phe Thr Gl n        Ar g Phe Leu Ser
                              500                         505                          510
              As n Gl y Met Met I l e     Cy s Met Ser As n As p Ty r Gl u       I l e Gl y Thr Ar g
                        515                         520                          525
              Phe Ser Val Pr o Phe        Al a Gl y Phe Phe Ser Cy s Gl n        Ser Gl y As n Pr o
                    530                        535                        540
              Leu Ser As n Gl y Gl n      Ser Ar g Cy s Pr o Pr o Gl n Phe       Ser Gl n Hi s Leu
              545                         550                        555                       560
              Al a Al a I l e Ser As p    Gl y Cy s Gl n Val Leu Ty r Cy s       Val Gl n Ser Gl y
                                   565                         570                         575
              Val Phe Ser Gl y Gl y       Hi s Leu Ly s Pr o Val Ar g Leu        Pr o Pr o Phe Thr
                              580                         585                         590
              Ar g Pr o Pr o Val Val      Gl y Met I l e Al a Thr As n Thr       Val Al a Val Met
                        595                         600                          605
              Thr Gl u Gl y Gl u Ar g     Ser Tr p Val Ar g Val Gl y Gl u        Thr Ly s Met Tr p
                    610                        615                        620
              Ar g Leu Al a Ly s Pr o     Gl y As p I l e Ly s Gl n Met Gl n     Ser I l e Leu As p
              625                         630                        635                         640
              Al a Ser Gl u Met Ser       Gl y Gl y Ly s Ly s Al a Gl y Val      Al a I l e Gl y I l e
                                   645                         650                          655
              I l e Val Leu Val Al a      Leu Val Val Al a Gl y Thr Val          Val I l e Met Ly s
                              660                         665                         670
              Ar g Ar g As n Ar g Phe     Ser Ser Leu Ly s Leu As n Ar g         Gl y Ty r Gl u Gl u
                        675                         680                          685
              I l e Ser Gl u Gl u Ar g    As n Gl u Ser Ser Val Gl u I l e       Gl u Gl n Gl u Gl n
                    690                        695                        700
              As n Gl u Al a Al a As n    Gl u As n Pr o As n Gl n Gl n Leu      Leu Ser
              705                         710                        715
              <210>   14
              <211>   730
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Hal i ot i s r uf es c ens
              <400> 14
              Met Leu Cy s Phe Val        Phe Gl y Val Ser I l e Val      Al a Gl y Val I l e     Gl y
               1                  5                           10                        15
              Gl y Gl u Leu Leu As n      Thr Val Gl n Ly s Pr o Gl u     Phe Pr o Ly s Gl y      As p
                            20                           25                         30
              Val Ar g Al a Cy s Ty r     Gl y As p As n Ly s Ly s Leu    Gl u Ar g Phe Gl u      Val
                        35                          40                         45
              Leu Pr o Gl y Gl n Gl y     Tr p As p As n Leu Ar g As n    Val As p Al a Gl y      Leu
                   50                          55                         60
              Val Val Val Ty r As n       Ty r Ser Ar g Cy s Ar g Thr     Thr Gl u As p Gl y      Ar g
                                                               Page 9

                                                              9416040_1
<removed-date>
              65                          70                       75                         80
              Phe Leu I l e Pr o As p     Thr Val As n Thr I l e Pr o Leu     Ly s Al a Ser   Ly s
                                   85                         90                        95
              Leu As n Val Ty r Al a      Gl u Leu I l e Ser Hi s Tr p Ser    As n Ty r Thr   Ser
                              100                        105                       110
              Thr Thr Al a Hi s Gl y      Val As n I l e As p Al a Gl y Leu   Ly s Phe Gl y   Ser
                         115                        120                       125
              Val Ly s Val Ser Gl y       Thr Phe Ser Ser Gl y Ty r Gl u      Ser Val Ly s    Ser
                    130                        135                      140
              Ly s Gl n I l e Gl y As p   Ly s Ser Ty r Thr Thr Ar g Val      Gl n Leu Ar g Ty r
              145                         150                      155                      160
              Val Ar g Ty r Ser Al a      Ly s Leu Gl n Pr o As p Al a Al a   Leu Hi s Pr o Thr
                                   165                        170                       175
<removed-apn>
              Phe Ly s Ser Ar g Leu       Leu Ser I l e Al a Gl y Ser Leu     Gl n Leu As n Ly s
                              180                        185                       190
              Thr As p Gl n Al a Ar g     Ty r As p Ser Gl u Leu Leu Val      Ar g As p Phe Gl y
                         195                        200                       205
              Thr Hi s Val Val Thr        Ser Val As p Al a Gl y Al a Al a    Leu Val Gl n Gl u
                    210                        215                      220
              As p Gl n Val Ser Ser       Gl u Phe Val As n Ser Ar g Ly s     Phe Thr Ly s As n
              225                         230                      235                       240
              Gl n I l e Thr Al a Gl y    Al a Ser Al a Ser Phe Leu Gl y      I l e Phe Ser I l e
                                   245                        250                       255
              As p Val Ser Ty r Hi s      Ser Ser Thr Ser As n Gl u Val       Ly s Thr Al a Ty r
                              260                        265                        270
              Gl u Ly s Ser Ar g Ser      Ser Ser Gl n I l e As p Thr Leu     Gl y Gl y Pr o Met
                         275                        280                       285
              Phe Ly s Al a Ser As n      Phe Thr Al a As n As p Tr p Thr     As n Gl u Val As p
                    290                        295                      300
              Hi s Gl u Leu Val Al a      Val As p Ar g Ser Gl y As p Pr o    Leu Phe Phe Leu
              305                         310                      315                      320
              I l e As n Ser Al a Ser     Leu Pr o Gl u Leu Pr o As n Ser     Val Leu Ty r Gl n
                                   325                        330                       335
              Leu Gl n As n Leu Val       Gl u Gl u Thr I l e Leu Hi s Ty r   Ty r Gl u Phe As n
                              340                        345                       350
              Thr Ty r Ar g Gl y Cy s     Thr Gl u Leu As p Ser Pr o As n     Phe Ser Pr o Al a
                         355                        360                       365
              Al a As n Leu As p As p     Gl y Thr Cy s Ly s Ser Pr o Ty r    Thr As n Leu Thr
                    370                        375                      380
              Phe Gl y Gl y Val Ty r      Gl n Thr Cy s Ser Met Ser Ser       Gl y Ser As n As n
              385                         390                      395                      400
              Gl y As p Leu Cy s Ser      Gl y Leu As p Gl n Val As n Pr o    Ly s Thr Gl y Gl y
                                   405                        410                       415
              Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o As p     Gl y Ty r Gl u Ser Val Gl u Leu     Hi s Thr Gl y Ar g
                              420                        425                       430
              Leu Ser As p Ser Ly s       Ser Val Hi s Ser Cy s Hi s Ser      Cy s Tr p Leu Phe
                         435                        440                       445
              Phe Ly s Cy s Cy s Hi s     As p As n Ty r Ty r Hi s Ser Gl u   Al a Thr Ty r I l e
                    450                        455                      460
              Met Hi s Tr p Cy s Al a     Al a Thr Gl y Pr o Val Ser Gl n     As p Ser Gl y Ty r
              465                         470                      475                      480
              Leu Phe Gl y Gl y Leu       Ty r Thr Ser Gl n Leu As n As n     Pr o Leu Thr Gl n
                                   485                        490                       495
              Gl y Ly s Thr Cy s Pr o     Val As n Phe Ty r Thr Ar g Thr      Leu Gl y Ly s As p
                              500                        505                       510
              Leu Hi s I l e Cy s I l e   Ser As p As p Ty r Gl u Leu Gl y    Met Ly s Ty r Ser
                         515                        520                       525
              Met Pr o Phe Gl y Gl y      Phe I l e Ser Cy s Thr Thr Gl y     As n Pr o Leu Al a
                    530                        535                      540
              Met As n Pr o Ly s Pr o     Ly s Ser Ly s Gl y As p Met As n    Ser Al a Leu Pr o
              545                         550                      555                       560
              Ser Leu Hi s Ser Phe        Phe Gl n Gl y Ser Ly s Thr Tr p     Pr o Ly s Hi s Cy s
                                   565                        570                       575
              Pr o Ly s Gl y Ty r Ser     Gl n Hi s Leu Al a Ty r Val As p    Gl n Gl y Cy s Gl u
                              580                        585                       590
              I l e As n Ty r Cy s Leu    Leu Al a Gl y Ser Leu Ser Gl u      Val Gl y Leu Pr o
                         595                        600                       605
              Ly s I l e Ar g Ar g Pr o   Pr o Phe Gl n Thr Al a Pr o Leu     Leu Leu Pr o Ser
                                                               Page 10

                                                                9416040_1
<removed-date>
                   610                      615                          620
              Thr Gl u As n Hi s Val Val Phe        As p   Pr o Val Thr Leu Thr Tr p      Ar g Ly s
              625                       630                         635                        640
              As n Gl n Gl u Al a Met Gl n Phe      Ile    Ser Al a Ar g Gl y Gl y As p   Al a Thr
                                   645                          650                       655
              Ser Ser Ser Thr Gl y Ser Gl y         Met    Ser Al a Gl y Al a Al a Al a   Gl y I l e
                              660                          665                     670
              Al a Val Val Al a Thr Leu Gl y        Cy s   Val Val I l e Ser Thr I l e    Ile Ile
                         675                        680                       685
              Val Leu I l e Ly s Ar g Ar g Ar g     Ly s   Ser Ser Al a Gl y Ty r Ar g    Hi s Leu
                   690                      695                          700
              Al a I l e As p As p Pr o Leu Leu     Ser    Ser Gl n Ser As n Ty r Gl y    Al a Thr
              705                       710                         715                        720
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Ser As p Al a Val As n Val       As n   Val Gl u
                                   725                          730
              <210>   15
              <211>   676
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Suber i t es domunc ul a
              <400> 15
              Met Val Cy s Leu Thr        Ar g Gl n I l e Gl y Ser Leu Thr     As p Thr Hi s     Pr o
               1                    5                           10                       15
              Thr As n Ly s Leu Val       Met Val Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y     Al a Gl y Gl y    Leu
                             20                            25                       30
              Leu Ser Leu Val Ser         Gl y Al a Leu Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y     Gl y As n I l e   Ar g
                         35                          40                        45
              Al a Gl y Al a Pr o Ar g    As n Met Ty r Pr o Ar g Gl y As p    Pr o Ar g As n    Cy s
                   50                           55                       60
              Leu Ser Gl y As n Pr o      Ly s Leu As n I l e Leu Gl n Val     Val Pr o Gl y I l e
              65                          70                        75                         80
              Gl y Tr p As p As n Leu     Ar g As n Ser Gl u Thr Gl y I l e    Leu Thr Ser Phe
                                   85                           90                        95
              Ser Ty r Ser Gl n Cy s      Ly s Val Thr Ty r As p Ar g Ar g     Ty r Leu I l e Pr o
                             100                           105                       110
              As p Gl u Thr Phe Al a      I l e Pr o I l e Ly s Thr Ser Thr    I l e As p Ty r Gl n
                         115                         120                       125
              Al a Gl u Leu Phe As p      Hi s Tr p As p Al a Ty r Ly s Ser    Val Thr Ser Ar g
                   130                          135                      140
              Ser I l e As n Al a Gl y    Phe As p Phe Phe Gl y Ly s I l e     Gl y Gl y Gl u I l e
              145                         150                       155                       160
              Leu Ser Leu Leu Ly s        Ser As n As p Thr Gl u Ser Al a      As p Ty r Al a Al a
                                   165                          170                      175
              Gl n I l e Leu I l e Ar g   As p Ty r Gl y Thr Hi s Cy s I l e   Thr Ser I l e As p
                             180                           185                      190
              Al a Gl y Al a Val Leu      I l e Ly s Gl u As p As n Leu Ly s   Ser Thr I l e Met
                         195                         200                       205
              Ser As n Ty r Ly s Gl y     Ar g Al a As p Ser Leu Ser Thr       Al a Al a Gl y Val
                   210                          215                      220
              Gl u Phe Ty r As p Met      Leu Ly s Leu Ar g Al a Ser Al a      Gl y Phe Ser Ser
              225                         230                       235                      240
              Ty r Ser Gl y As p Ser      As p Leu Ly s Al a Ty r Ar g Gl n    As n Ar g Thr Ser
                                   245                          250                      255
              Ser Ar g Leu Ty r Thr       Ty r Gl y Gl y Pr o Pr o Ty r Ly s   Leu Gl y Met As n
                             260                           265                      270
              Leu Ser Ar g Tr p Gl u      As n As p Leu Met As n As n Leu      Val Al a Thr As p
                         275                         280                       285
              Ar g Ser Gl y Ly s Pr o     Ser Hi s Ser Leu Ser Thr Thr         Gl n Ser Leu Ly s
                   290                          295                      300
              Pr o Gl u Val Thr Thr       Ser Gl n Gl u Val Phe Leu Leu        Ar g Ar g Leu Val
              305                         310                       315                       320
              Ly s Ser Al a Val Ser       Gl n Ty r Ty r Hi s Ty r As n Thr    Hi s Thr Gl y Cy s
                                   325                          330                      335
              Ly s As n Pr o Ly s Al a    Pr o As n Leu As p Hi s Gl n Thr     As n As n Gl y Al a
                             340                           345                      350
              Pr o Gl y Val Cy s Ly s     Gl u Pr o Ser Al a As n Ty r Thr     Phe Gl y Gl y Val
                                                                 Page 11

                                                              9416040_1
<removed-date>
                        355                          360                        365
              Phe Gl n Ser Cy s Ar g      Ser As n Gl y As n As p I l e Cy s    Gl y Ly s Leu Leu
                   370                          375                      380
              Gl n Ly s As n Pr o Leu     Thr Gl y Gl y Ty r Ser Cy s Pr o      Ly s As n Phe Ly s
              385                         390                      395                         400
              Al a Leu Leu Leu Gl n       Leu Gl y Thr Gl u Ar g Ser Hi s       Ly s Met Ar g Ar g
                                  405                         410                          415
              Val Cy s Val Tr p Ly s      Ar g Ly s Cy s Thr Phe Phe Val        Phe As n Cy s Hi s
                             420                          425                         430
              As p Val As p As p Cy s     Thr Phe Val Pr o Ser Val Gl u         I l e Al a Ser Ty r
                        435                          440                        445
              Gl n Thr Ty r Tr p Cy s     Al a Pr o As n Ly s Ly s As n Pr o    Pr o Ly s Phe Gl y
                   450                          455                      460
<removed-apn>
              Ty r Met Phe Gl y Gl y      I l e Ty r Ser As n As p I l e Gl n   As n Pr o I l e Thr
              465                         470                      475                          480
              Ar g Ser Cy s Ser Cy s      Pr o Thr Hi s Phe Leu Pr o Leu        Ar g Met Gl y Gl u
                                  485                         490                         495
              Ar g Al a Thr Val Cy s      Val Ser Gl u As p Ty r Gl u Leu       Gl y Hi s Gl n Phe
                             500                          505                        510
              Ser Leu Pr o Phe Gl y       Gl y Phe Phe Ser Cy s Val Ser         Gl y As n Val Leu
                        515                          520                        525
              Al a Gl y As n Gl y Ser     Ser Gl u Phe Leu As n As n Pr o       Ly s As p Tr p Pr o
                   530                          535                      540
              Met Ar g Cy s Pr o Gl y     Gl y Phe Thr Gl n Hi s Leu Al a       Leu Thr Gl u Ly s
              545                         550                      555                        560
              Gl y Cy s Ar g Val As n     Phe Cy s Val Ly s Al a Gl y Ser       Leu Leu Ar g Al a
                                  565                         570                         575
              Ser As p Leu Gl u Leu       Val Leu Pr o Pr o Phe As p Pr o       Ly s Pr o Thr Leu
                             580                          585                        590
              Ar g Ly s As n Ser Thr      Ser As p Leu Phe Ser Ly s Pr o        Al a Val Al a Pr o
                        595                          600                        605
              Ser Gl y Ser Leu Pr o       I l e Ly s Gl y Val Pr o Pr o Pr o    Leu As p As n As n
                   610                          615                      620
              Ar g Val I l e Met Ty r     Ty r Pr o Val Leu Ser Ser As n        Thr Gl y Gl n Ar g
              625                         630                      635                          640
              As p As n Gl y Val Gl y     Ar g I l e Thr Gl u Pr o Phe Phe      Cy s Hi s Ser Tr p
                                  645                         650                          655
              As p Tr p Ser Val As p      Leu Ser Val Al a Hi s Gl n Al a       I l e As p Ly s Phe
                             660                          665                         670
              Al a Phe Al a Ly s
                        675
              <210>   16
              <211>   40
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus mus c ul us
              <400> 16
              Ty r Gl y Thr Ar g Ly s Ty r Ly s     Ly s Ly s Gl u Ty r Gl n Gl u I l e Gl u Gl u
               1                   5                          10                        15
              Gl n Gl u Ser Leu Val Gl y Ser        Leu Al a Thr As p Al a Thr Val Leu As n
                             20                          25                       30
              Gl y Gl u Gl u As p Pr o Ser Pr o     Al a
                        35                          40
              <210>   17
              <211>   715
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Cani s f ami l i ar i s
              <400> 17
              Met Ser Ser Val Ar g Gl y Al a I l e Leu        Phe Tr p Val Val Val Al a Tr p
               1                   5                          10                     15
              Al a Ly s Thr As p Ly s Pr o Leu Gl u Gl n      Thr As n Gl u Thr Gl y Phe Gl n
                             20                     25                          30
              Ly s Cy s Ly s As n Al a Leu Ly s Leu Pr o      Val Leu Gl u Val Leu Pr o Gl y
                                                               Page 12

                                                              9416040_1
<removed-date>
                         35                        40                          45
              Gl y Gl y Tr p As p As n Leu Ar g    As n Val As p Met Gl y      Ar g Val Met As p
                    50                     55                           60
              Leu Thr Ty r Ar g Ser Cy s Ar g      Thr Thr Gl u As p Gl y      Gl n Ty r I l e I l e
              65                       70                          75                          80
              Pr o As p Gl u I l e Thr Ser I l e   Al a Gl n Ly s Gl n Ser     As n Leu Gl u Met
                                   85                         90                         95
              As n Ser Gl u I l e Leu Gl u Ser     Tr p Val As n Ty r Gl n     Ser Ser Thr Ser
                             100                         105                        110
              Ser Ser I l e As n Leu Gl u Leu      Ser Leu Ty r Ser Ly s       Val As n Gl y Ly s
                         115                       120                         125
              Phe Ser Ser As p Phe Gl n Gl n       Met Ly s Thr Leu Gl n       Val Ly s As p Gl n
                    130                    135                          140
<removed-apn>
              Al a I l e Thr Thr Ar g Val Gl n     I l e Ar g As n Leu I l e   Ty r Thr Val Ly s
              145                      150                         155                         160
              I l e As n Ser Al a Ser Ly s Leu     Ser Tr p Gl y Phe Ly s      Ly s As p Leu Met
                                   165                        170                         175
              As p I l e Ser As p Ar g Leu Gl u    As n As n Gl n Thr Ar g     Met Al a Thr Ty r
                             180                         185                         190
              Leu Al a Gl u Leu Leu Val Leu        As n Ty r Gl y Thr Hi s     Val Val Thr Ser
                         195                       200                         205
              Val As p Al a Gl y Al a Al a Leu     Leu Gl n Gl u As p Hi s     I l e Ar g Al a Ser
                    210                    215                          220
              Phe Leu Gl n As p Ser Gl n Ser       Ser Hi s Thr Al a Val       Thr Al a Ser Al a
              225                      230                         235                         240
              Gl y Val Al a Phe Met As n Val       Val As n Ty r Ly s Phe      Gl u Gl u As n Ty r
                                   245                        250                        255
              Thr Ser Gl n As n Al a Leu Thr       Ly s Ser Ty r Leu Al a      As n Ar g Thr Hi s
                             260                         265                        270
              Ser Ar g Val Ar g Ser I l e Gl y     Gl y Val Pr o Phe Ty r      Pr o Gl y I l e Thr
                         275                       280                         285
              Leu Gl n Al a Tr p Gl n Gl n Ser     I l e Al a As n Hi s Leu    Val Al a I l e As p
                    290                    295                          300
              Ar g Al a Gl y Leu Pr o Leu Pr o     Phe Phe I l e Ser Pr o      As p Thr Leu Pr o
              305                      310                         315                        320
              Gl u Leu Pr o Gl y Pr o Leu Val      Ly s Ly s Leu Ser Ly s      Thr Val Gl u Al a
                                   325                        330                        335
              Al a Val Ar g Hi s Ty r Ty r Al a    Phe As n Thr Ty r Pr o      Gl y Cy s Thr As p
                             340                         345                        350
              Al a As n Ser Pr o As n Phe As n     Phe Gl n Al a As n Thr      As p As p Gl y Ser
                         355                       360                         365
              Cy s Gl u Gl y Ly s Met Thr As n     Phe Ser Phe Gl y Gl y       Val Phe Gl n Gl u
                    370                    375                          380
              Cy s Thr Gl n Leu Ser Gl y Ly s      Gl u Al a Al a Gl n Leu     Cy s Gl n Thr Leu
              385                      390                         395                        400
              Gl u Gl n Ar g As n Pr o Leu Thr     Gl y Al a Phe Ser Cy s      Pr o Ser Gl y Ty r
                                   405                        410                        415
              Ser Pr o I l e Hi s Leu Leu Ser      Gl n Val Hi s Gl u Gl u     Gl y Ty r As n Hi s
                             420                         425                        430
              Leu Gl u Cy s Ar g Ar g Ly s Cy s    Thr Leu Leu Val Phe         Cy s Ly s Thr Val
                         435                       440                         445
              Cy s Gl u As p Val Phe Ar g Val      Al a Ly s Al a Gl u Phe     Ar g Al a Phe Tr p
                    450                    455                          460
              Cy s Val Al a Ser Gl y Gl n I l e    Pr o Gl u As n Ser Gl y     Leu Leu Phe Gl y
              465                      470                         475                        480
              Gl y Leu Phe Ser Gl y Ly s Thr       I l e As n Pr o Leu Thr     As n Al a Gl n Ser
                                   485                        490                        495
              Cy s Pr o Al a Gl y Ty r Phe Pr o    Leu Ar g Leu Phe Gl u       As n Leu Ly s Val
                             500                         505                        510
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu As p Ty r Gl u     Leu Gl y Phe Ar g Phe       Ser Val Pr o Phe
                         515                       520                         525
              Gl y Gl y Phe Phe Ser Cy s Al a      Val Gl y As n Pr o Leu      Val As n Ser Al a
                    530                    535                          540
              Phe Thr Gl u Gl y Al a Pr o Ser      Leu Ly s Ly s Cy s Pr o     Gl y Gl y Phe Ser
              545                      550                         555                       560
              Gl n Hi s Leu Al a Leu I l e Ser     As p Gl y Cy s Gl n Val     Ser Ty r Cy s Val
                                   565                        570                        575
              Ly s Ser Gl y Leu Phe Thr Gl y       Gl y Ser Leu Pr o Pr o      Al a Ar g Leu Pr o
                                                               Page 13

                                                                 9416040_1
<removed-date>
                                580                         585                        590
              Pr o   Ty r Thr Ar g Pr o Pr o    Leu    Met Ser Gl n Al a Al a     Thr As n Thr Val
                           595                         600                        605
              Ile    Val Thr As n Ser Gl u      Thr    Al a Ser Ser Tr p I l e    Ly s As p Ser Gl n
                     610                        615                        620
              Thr    Ar g Gl n Tr p Ar g Leu    Gl y   Gl u Pr o Leu Gl u Leu     Ar g Ar g Al a Met
              625                        630                          635                        640
              Ly s   Val I l e Ar g Gl y As p   Gl y   Gl y Gl y Leu Ser Gl y     Gl y Al a Al a Al a
                                     645                         650                        655
              Gl y   Val Thr Met Gl y Val       Thr    Thr Val Leu Al a Al a      Val I l e Al a Leu
                                660                         665                        670
              Al a   I l e Ty r Gl y Thr Ar g   Ly s   Ty r Ly s Ly s Ar g Gl y   Ty r Gl n Al a Leu
                           675                         680                        685
<removed-apn>
              Gl u   As p Gl u Ar g Gl n Ser    Leu    Al a Al a Gl y Thr Al a    Gl u Ser Gl y As p
                     690                        695                        700
              Al a   Pr o Gl y Gl n Gl u Gl n   Gl u   Gl n Ser Pr o Al a
              705                        710                          715
              <210>    18
              <211>    41
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Equus c abal l us
              <400> 18
              Ty r Gl y Thr Ar g Ly s Ty r Ly s Ly s        Ar g Gl u Ty r Gl n Al a Leu Gl u Gl u
               1                   5                             10                      15
              Gl u Ar g Gl n Ser I l e Al a Pr o Gl y       Thr Al a Gl u Thr Ar g As p Met Pr o
                             20                             25                       30
              As p Gl n Gl u Gl n Gl u Gl n Ser Pr o        Al a
                        35                       40
              <210>    19
              <211>    40
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Homo s api ens
              <400> 19
              Ty r Gl y Thr Ar g Ly s Phe Ly s Ly s Ly s Al a Ty r Gl n Al a I l e Gl u Gl u
               1                   5                     10                        15
              Ar g Gl n Ser Leu Val Pr o Gl y Thr Al a Al a Thr Gl y As p Thr Thr Ty r
                             20                      25                      30
              Gl n Gl u Gl n Gl y Gl n Ser Pr o Al a
                        35                      40
                                                                 Page 14

