                                            Abstract
A method for facilitating a futures contract for professional services between a buyer in a
group of buyers and a seller in a group of sellers, wherein seller is a provider of professional
services, comprising: buyer notifies an intermediary of a first set desired characteristics; seller
notifies the intermediary of second set desired characteristics; intermediately compares first
and second set of desired characteristics of all relevant sellers in the group of sellers with all
relevant buyers in the group of buyers to find the matches based on relevance and notifies
buyer; buyer chooses a preferred seller; buyer and seller agree on terms of the futures contract
including: a start and finish date for delivery of the professional services, cancellation fee for
buyer and seller, time availability of the seller and fee rates of the seller; and intermediary
effects the futures contract between the buyer and seller.

                                            -1
                                     AUSTRALIA
                                  PATENTS ACT 1990
                            PATENT SPECIFICATION
FOR THE INVENTION ENTITLED:
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR TRADING PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
The invention is described in the following statement:-

                                               -2
     A METHOD, PROCESS AND SYSTEM FOR TRADING PROFESSIONAL
                                          SERVICES
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] The present invention relates to a method and/or system for connecting clients to
professional service providers in business to business context, which would allow clients
to retain professional service providers at a future time for a predetermined period of time
or for a predetermined fee by using a futures contract for professional services. The
method and system may also include matching services, e-tendering services and other
ancillary services.
BACKGROUND
 [0002] There has been a long felt need for a system that allows clients to pre-book
professional services through the use of futures contracts. This system of pre-booking for
professional services may allow clients to book future professional services at a
discounted rate for a predetermined period of time. Thereby, locking the current
discounted fee rates for the client to use at a future predetermined date. This pre-booking
 system gives the client a transferable or sellable right for future retained professional
 services. The client may also treat the futures contract as an asset with a marketable or
 saleable value.
 [0003] Previously, other systems of professional service trading have existed to match
 clients with potential service providers. Systems such as eLance.com, Freelancer.com,
 Odesk.com all provide web enabled computerized systems for tendering by service
 providers subject to work requirements issued by potential clients, however these systems
 may differ from the above-mentioned system in a number of ways:
         -   they generally focus on the service provider bidding for work;
         -   there are no capacities for future booking facilities against service providers;
         -   they do not generally allow clients to lock-in future fee rates of the service
             provider; and

                                               -3
         -   they do not provide clients with a tradable right on the service contract
         Additionally, they lack the ability to adequately match high-end professional
         service providers with service buyers through multiple dimensions of desired
         characteristics or attributes. Web based systems such as eLance.com generally
         perform matches based on keywords search and fails to verify other background
         factors about service providers. Descriptions of the eLance.com system are
         available from their website at http://www.elance.com. Descriptions of the
         freelancer.com      system      are     available    from      their   website     at
         http://www.freelancer.com. Descriptions of the odesk.com system are available
         from their website at http://www.odesk.com.
[0004] US Patent 7464051 - Heggem describes an online trading system for connecting
buyers and sellers. However this system is not applied to professional services or trading
of future rights such as futures contracts. The disclosure also doesn't disclose any feature
relating to the matching of multiple desired characteristics which may be desirable to
match high end professional service providers with suitable service buyers.
[0005] It may also be important to note that professional service providers (PSP) often
experience a down turn in business and revenue through cyclical economic activity or
market downtowns. When this occurs the PSP firm may often suffers underutilization or
"bench-time", wherein the PSP firm's fee-earning staff may be waiting for work and are
therefore generally unproductive. The PSP may incur huge losses as a result and may be
forced to retrench parts of its workforce to stay solvent. Enabling pre-booking of future
professional work by clients could allow the PSP to avoid or limit the effects of sales
 downturn during tough market conditions, as their time is pre-booked, prepaid and
therefore secured. This helps to protect both the PSP's margin and workforce, possibly
 even during an economic downturn or slump. Meanwhile the client benefits from having
the certainty of provision of service and a fixed contractual rate at the pre-determined
 future date, thereby protecting itself both from potential skill shortages and any universal
 fee raises by the PSP.

                                                -4
[0006] If the client's requirements change or if market conditions are such that selling off
the future utilization contract becomes more desirable, the client has the option to sell this
futures contract to a third party ahead of the contract start-date, thereby eliminating the
commitment and potentially profiting from the sale.
[0007] Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
SUMMARY
 [0008] PROBLEMS TO BE SOLVED
 [0009] The present invention aims to address at least some of the problems with the prior
art in this field. More specifically, the present invention may aim to reduce or limit
"bench time" of internal staff and contractors and maximise staff utilisation levels.
 [0010] It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of
the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
 [0011] MEANS FOR SOLVING THE PROBLEM
 [0012] One aspect of the present invention is to provide a system for facilitating a futures
 contract for professional services between a buyer and a seller, comprising: a computer
 program being run on one or more computer processors and accessing one or more
 databases within an informational storage component; wherein the informational storage
 component provides for storing a plurality of buyer groups, a plurality of buyer profiles
 associated with buyer groups, a plurality of seller groups, a plurality of seller profiles
 associated with seller groups associated with seller profiles; wherein the buyer profiles
 and the seller profiles respectively include at least one set of desired attributes; wherein
 the computer program provides for a seller interface adapted to receive information
 relating to a seller profile and a buyer interface adapted to receive information relating to
 a buyer profile ; wherein the computer program matches the desired attributes between

                                               -5
one buyer profile and at least one seller profile selected from the seller groups to identify
a preferred seller and the computer program is adapted to allow the buyer to make an
offer for the futures contract to the preferred seller; and further wherein the preferred
seller accepts the offer and the computer program effects the futures contract between the
buyer and the preferred seller.
[0013] Preferably, the desired attributes may include: a depth of skill attribute, a
relevance of domain knowledge attribute, an industry and market experience attribute,
and/or a psychometric profile attribute.
[0014] Preferably, the provisions of the futures contract include: a predetermined fee rate
of the seller; a predetermined amount of time the seller is to provide professional
services, the nature of services to be performed; and a start and finish date for delivery of
the professional services. The system may also display on the buyer or seller interface
information relating to an electronic calendar including information relating to the future
availability of the seller. Preferably, in such a way that the demand and supply
information may be visualized instantly on the aforementioned interface or interfaces.
[0015] The future availability of the seller may be agreed upon by both seller and buyer,
and forms part of the futures contract.
[0016] Preferably, the psychometric profile attribute may identify the seller as from
having of the following selected characteristics or attributes: team player, leader, self
starter, follower, introvert, extrovert, etc. This attribute may be compared to desired
characteristics or attributes of which the client is seeking as well as team composition
dynamics, in order to reach a match that best corresponds to the needs of the client.
[0017] The industry and market experience attribute may include data specifying the
location or market where the experience was gained. As the preferred system is provided
by an online portal adapted to function across the internet, such information may become
relevant in certain situations.

                                                -6
[0018] Preferably, the discipline of the professional services being considered may be
one of, but not exclusively bound by, the following categories: information technology
services, engineering services, financial services, legal services, accounting services,
research and scientific services, graphic design services, photography services, writing
services, translation services, sales and marketing services, business advisory services,
creative and artistic (including musical) services, training and educational services, sports
and coaching services, medical or health services, culinary and chef services, fashion
design and tailoring services, and other services that may be generally considered as
professional in nature.
[0019] The system may include an electronic tendering system, whereby the buyer posts
a service proposal and multiple sellers are invited to make counter proposals and then
after a predetermined time period, the buyer selects a preferred seller through buyer
interface.
 [0020] Preferably, the futures contract may be tradeable or transferable at the discretion
 of the buyer. The futures contract may also include a cancellation fee and wherein said
 cancellation fee may be between 1 and 150% of the total monetary value of the futures
 contract. The cancellation fee may be payable by either buyer or seller who defaults or
 otherwise breaches the futures contract. It may be preferable, to charge cancellation fees
 in excess of the contract, wherein a punitive measure is required to prevent abuse of the
 embodiment or system. These punitive cancellation fees may be charged wherein the
 system has been the subject of abusive gamification by either sellers or buyers.
 [0021] Preferably, the futures contract may be conditional, whereupon either the seller or
 buyer may impose certain conditions for fulfilment (for example non-transference of
 contract), upon which non-satisfaction of the condition may render the futures contract
 null and void, or rendered with further penalties for the non-complying party.
 [0022] Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method for facilitating a
 futures contract for professional services between a buyer in a group of buyers and a
 seller in a group of sellers, wherein seller is a provider of professional services,

                                               -7
comprising: the buyer notifies an intermediary of a first set desired attributes; the seller
notifies the intermediary of second set desired attributes; the intermediary compares first
and second set of desired characteristics of all relevant sellers in the group of sellers with
all relevant buyers in the group of buyers to find the matches based on relevance and
notifies buyer; buyer chooses a preferred seller; the buyer and seller agree on terms of the
futures contract including: start and finish dates of the futures contract, cancellation fee
for buyer and seller, time availability of the seller and fee rates of the seller; and the
intermediary effects the futures contract between the buyer and the seller.
[0023] Preferably, the first and second sets of desired attributes may include: a depth of
skill attribute, a relevance of domain knowledge attribute, an industry and market
experience attribute, and a psychometric profile attribute.
 [0024] The method may be adapted to be resolved electronically using separate interfaces
for the buyer and seller. Preferably, the intermediary is an automated computer program
adapted to interact with buyer and seller and wherein the interfaces are web-enabled
portals. The intermediary may also comprise of manual process, or manual processes
 inter-mixed with automated computerized processes
 [0025] The preferred futures contract may be tradable or transferable at the discretion
 either buyer or seller. Preferably, the cancellation fee is between 1 and 150% of the total
 monetary value of the futures contract. Also, the preferred cancellation fee may be
 payable by either buyer or seller who defaults and/or otherwise breaches the futures
 contract.
 [0026] Preferably, the psychometric profile attribute identifies the seller from one of the
 following selected group: team player, leader, self-starter or follower. The industry and
 market experience attribute may include data specifying the location of the experience.
 [0027] Another aspect of the present invention is to provide an electronic interface
 system for facilitating a futures contract for professional services between a buyer and a
 seller, including: a buyer interface for use by the buyer, wherein the buyer enters data into

                                                -8
buyer interface relating to the preferred time availability to be provided pursuant to the
futures contract; a seller interface for use by the seller, wherein the seller enters data into
seller interface relating to time availability into seller interface; a computer program,
which connects the buyer and seller interface and matches time availability, fee rates and
service fit for the booking of a futures contract, wherein the buyer interface and the seller
interface are adapted to operate through the internet.
 [0028] Preferably, the computer program displays time availability in a series of color
coded boxes to denote quantity or quality of supply, on either of the buyer interface or
seller interface.
 [0029] In the context of the present invention, the words "comprise", "comprising" and
the like are to be construed in their inclusive, as opposed to their exclusive, sense, that is
 in the sense of "including, but not limited to".
 [0030] The invention is to be interpreted with reference to the at least one of the technical
 problems described or affiliated with the background art. The present aims to solve or
 ameliorate at least one of the technical problems and this may result in one or more
 advantageous effects as defined by this specification and described in detail with
 reference to the preferred embodiments of the present invention.
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
 [0031] Embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to
 the drawings in which:
 [0032] Figure 1 is a graph depicting the outcomes for professional services providers
 using the first preferred embodiment of the present invention;
 [0033] Figure 2 is a chart showing at least some of the desired attributes used in the
 matching process in relation to the first preferred embodiment of the invention;

                                                -9
[0034] Figure 3 depicts an example screen capture of an online portal or interface using
the system and/or method described of the first preferred embodiment;
[0035] Figure 4 depicts a flowchart view of a payment process to be used with or within
the first preferred embodiment of the present invention;
[0036] Figure 5 depicts a schematic layout of the system included within the first
preferred embodiment;
 [0037] Figure 6 depicts an example screen capture of an interface matching date and time
 information on a daily basis;
 [0038] Figure 7 depicts an example screen capture of an interface matching date and time
 information on an hourly basis; and
 [0039] Figure 8 depicts an example screen capture of at least some of the buyer or seller
 profile information as shown in the interface.
 DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 [0040] Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to
 the accompanying drawings and non-limiting examples.
 [0041] In this specification, a futures contract is a standardized contract between two
 parties to buy or sell a specified asset of standardized quantity and quality for a price
 agreed today (the futures price or strike price) with delivery and payment occurring at a
 specified future date, the delivery date. In this specification, the futures contracts are
 negotiated preferably through an intermediary acting between the buyer and seller.
 Preferably, this intermediary is a computer program as described within the first preferred
 embodiment of the present invention. The party agreeing to buy the underlying asset in
 the future, the "buyer" of the contract, is said to be "long", and the party agreeing to sell
 the asset in the future, the "seller" of the contract, is said to be "short". The terminology
 reflects the expectations of the parties-the buyer hopes or expects that the asset price is

                                               -10
going to increase, while the seller hopes or expects that it will decrease in near future.
Generally in this specification, the buyer may include a professional services client; and
the seller may include PSP or high end PSP. The preferred seller is a high end PSP.
[0042] While the futures contract specifies a trade taking place in the future, the purpose
of the intermediary may be to minimize the risk of default by either party. Thus the
intermediary may require one or both parties to put up an initial amount of cash, the
margin. Additionally, since the futures price may generally change regularly, the
difference in the prior agreed-upon price and the daily futures price may also be settled at
regular intervals (variation margin). The intervals may be daily but the length of time
may depend on the predetermined circumstances of the transaction. The exchange will
 draw money out of one party's margin account and put it into the other's so that each
 party has the interim loss or profit. If the margin account goes below a certain value, then
 a margin call is made and the account owner must replenish the margin account. Thus on
 the delivery date, the amount exchanged may not be the specified price on the contract
 but the spot value (since any gain or loss has already been previously settled by marking
 to market).
 [0043] Unlike an option, both parties of a futures contract must fulfil the contract on the
 delivery date. The seller delivers the underlying asset to the buyer, or, if it is a cash
 settled futures contract, then cash is transferred from the futures trader who sustained a
 loss to the one who made a profit. To exit the commitment prior to the settlement date,
 the holder of a futures position can close out its contract obligations by taking the
 opposite position on another futures contract on the same asset and settlement date. The
 difference in futures prices may be then a profit or loss.
 [0044] To minimize counterparty risk to traders, trades executed on regulated futures
 exchanges are guaranteed by a clearing house. The clearing house becomes the buyer to
 each seller, and the seller to each Buyer, so that in the event of a counterparty default the
 clearer assumes the risk of loss. This enables traders to transact without performing due
 diligence on their counterparty.

                                               -11
[0045] Settlement is the act of consummating the contract, and can be done in one of two
ways, as specified per type of futures contract:
     .  Physical delivery - the amount specified of the underlying asset of the contract is
         delivered by the seller of the contract to the exchange, and by the exchange to the
         buyers of the contract. In practice, it occurs only on a minority of contracts. Most
         are cancelled out by purchasing a covering position - that is, buying a contract to
         cancel out an earlier sale (covering a short), or selling a contract to liquidate an
         earlier purchase (covering a long);
     .   Cash settlement - a cash payment is made based on the underlying reference rate,
         or the closing value of a stock market index. The parties settle by
         paying/receiving the loss/gain related to the contract in cash when the contract
         expires. Cash settled futures are those that, as a practical matter, could not be
         settled by delivery of the referenced item - i.e. how would one deliver an index? A
         futures contract might also opt to settle against an index based on trade in a
         related spot market; and
     .   Electronic Delivery - by the method or process depicted in Figure 4 and further
         described in this specification.
 [0046] Expiry (or Expiration) is the time and the day that a particular delivery month of a
 futures contract stops trading, as well as the final settlement price for that contract. The
 Expiry date may also be referred to as the finish date of the professional services.
 Preferably, the start date described in this specification refers to the predetermined and
 agreed start time of the professional services, which may be different or same as the
 commencement date of the futures contract.

                                               -12
[0047] In a first preferred embodiment of the present invention, a system comprising the
preferred components depicted in Figure 5. This preferred system, method or process
includes: a computer program 63 connected to: buyer interface 61, seller interface 62, and
informational storage component 64; buyer profiles 65 and seller profiles 66 connected
and integrated into the informational storage component 64. The computer program 63 is
adapted to run and manage the system, method or process.
[0048] Preferably, the computer program 63 is adapted to be run on a computer processor
and accessing a database within the informational storage component 64.
[0049] In this embodiment, the computer program 63 is adapted to run across a web
enabled environment wherein the buyer and seller interfaces 61 & 62 are specialized web
portals to enabled buyers and sellers to input and receive information. The computer
program 63 using the system may match the buyers with the sellers using predetermined
desired attributes.
[0050] The computer program 63 may suggest or recommend sellers to a buyer based
desired attributes inputted by the buyer. The buyer selects a preferred seller and then the
computer program sends a notification to the selected seller. Then the seller and buyer
agreed by use of the computer program and the respective interfaces to an electronic
futures contract.
 [0051] Preferably, the buyer may input into the buyer interface 61 a first set of desired
 attributes. These desired attributes are attributes that the buyer wishes to secure by way of
this system. This first set of desired attributes may be stored in the buyer profile 65 for
 retrieval and matching purposes of the computer program 63.
 [0052] Additionally, the seller may also input a second set of desired attributes into the
 seller interface 62 and this second set of desired attributes are stored in seller profiles 66.
 [0053] Preferably, the computer program 63 matches and/or identifies buyers and sellers
 in terms of relevancy of their matches of the first and second sets of desired attributes.

                                               -13
The computer program 63 may then identify multiple sellers from the respective seller
profile to match a single buyer profile and these may be displayed on the buyer interface
in order of relevancy or proximity of matches to the first set of desired attributes.
[0054] The electronic futures contract of the first preferred embodiment is an agreement
between the buyer and seller that the buyer has purchased a desired amount of time at a
predetermined fee rate to be used before the finish or expiry date of the professional
service. It is noted that the computer program 63 may also function as a type of electronic
clearing house to facilitate the transactions.
[0055] Preferably, the futures contract includes provisions whereby the seller agrees to
allocate a given professional's time for a predetermined time period to buyer. If the seller
defaults on the futures contract, by chose or by being unable to provide said service, the
seller must pay a cancellation fee. Generally, the cancellation fee(s) are relatively
sizeable when compared to the overall value of the futures contract and this is aimed to
discourage sellers from defaulting on said futures contract.
 [0056] The buyer may agree to the pay for the entire cost of the futures contract at the
time the contract is agreed or agrees to pay a processing fee at the time of execution of
the futures contract and the remainder of the fees on completion of the professional
 services. If the buyer defaults depending on the contract there may be a relatively sizeable
 cancellation fee or alternatively the buyer may forego the entire cost of the contract. The
 outcome depends on the provisions of futures contract as agreed by the parties.
 [0057] It is envisaged that the professional services provided for under the futures
 contract will be at a discounted rate which is agreed between the buyer and seller at the
 time of time of settlement of the futures contract.
 [0058] Preferably, the futures contract, brought into effect by this system and method,
 would be tradable and transferable to third party buyers. However, it is envisaged that the
 seller would not be able to transfer or cancel the futures contract except for: default; or
 wherein the cancellation is due to professional conflict of interest with the new buyer.

                                               -14
[0059] Preferably, the cancellation fee payable on a defaulted futures contract would be a
relatively high percentage of the total overall value of the contract to discourage contract
breaches. Preferably, the cancellation fee may be in a range between I to 150% of the
total overall contract value.
[0060] The preferred benefits and uses of the system, process or method according to the
first preferred embodiment are depicted in Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings.
Figure 1 depicts a graph with a break-even point 3 or a profitability line plotted along the
x axis. The break-even point or profitability line depicts the region on the graph under
which utilization of resources is non-profitable.
 [0061] Plotted against the profitability line 3 is the billable utilization cycle line 1. In this
example, the billable utilization cycle line 1 represents the generic billable utilization of
 professional services by a hypothetical company under normal circumstances without use
 of professional service futures contracting. The utilization cycle, in this embodiment,
 fluctuates in a hypothetical sinusoidal pattern typically of boom and bust economic
 modelling.
 [0062] Also plotted on the graph shown in Figure 1 is a pre-sales cycle line2. This pre
 sales cycle line 2 is typically representative of the pro bono sales activity required to
 generate billable work, and is typically the inverse of billable utilization rates within a
 company. In this example, pre-sales fall when billable utilization is high, pre-sales
 increase when billable utilization is low. This means that when utilization cycle line 1 is
 at the top of the peak, all or most professional services providers are fully or close to
 being fully booked and available resources are low. Whilst when utilization cycle line 1 is
 at the bottom of the trough, unused labour rate is at its highest.
  [0063] When staff or employees of an organization are employed by a professional
  services business or company but not actively engaged in pre-sales or billable work, this
  is sometimes referred to as "bench time". One of the aims of the present embodiment is
 to minimise "bench time" and to ensure that billable utilisation rates are maximised.

                                               -15
[0064] This first preferred embodiment of the present invention may aim to de-risk the
sales cycle for seller or professional service provider by preselling professional services
to clients or buyers through futures contract. This may allow the seller to make increases
in staff utilization rates even in times of an economic downturn. The effect is that the
minimum of the utilization cycle is raised and this adjustment to the utilization cycle is
shown in the graph at adjusted utilization cycle 4. The maximum of the adjusted
utilization cycle 4 has remained unchanged as it is assumed for this example that in a
booming economy the hypothetical company has reached a finite maximum of sales as all
staff are fully utilized and the company or organization would need to employ more
people to generate increased revenues. In times of an economic downturn or a trough, the
 seller has already pre-sold professional services and thus lifts the minima of the
 utilization rate. This may mean that the company is delivering on earlier sales and
 generating revenue, even though buyers may not otherwise require the services at that
 time. The futures contracts have the overall general effect of stabilizing the billable
 utilization rates for seller and may effectively transfer the price fluctuation risk to the
 buyer. It may also return the company or business to a profitable status (i.e. above the
 break-even point 3) even in time of economic downturn.
 [0065] It is noted that many organizations that provide high end professional services do
 experience "utilization lag" which also means that the staffing numbers are out of sync
 with the sales. This also may mean that the sales numbers are not being maximized as
 some companies retrench staff in busting economies and rehire staff in booming
 economies causing a lag between current net resources and current net resources required.
 The first preferred embodiment avoids and mitigates utilization lag.
  [0066] For the buyer, the main advantage may be that they are able to secure a significant
 discount on future professional services which will be needed by them. A buyer may be
 aware that they will need professional services in the future to complete a project and
 may be speculate on the price of such professional services in the event of discount.
  [0067] Also, the buyer obtains an asset from the formation of the futures contract. If the
  buyer locks in a futures contract for professional services at a time of economic

                                              -16
weakness, when the economy moves to boom phase, the buyer can sell the futures
contract to a third party and make a profit even if the professional services were never
needed by them.
[0068] The first preferred embodiment may aim to match supply with demand through
futures contracts and allow buyers to acquire best value skills, whilst minimizing bench
time and maximizing profitability for the seller.
[0069] Figure 2 depicts a preferred four dimensional matching system to be used with or
incorporated into the first preferred embodiment. The four dimension matching system or
4d matching shown in Figure 2 depicts four main characteristics or attributes that may be
used as desirable attributes or characteristics for matching buyers and sellers.
 [0070] The preferred four desired attributes are: depth of skill 21, relevance of domain
knowledge 22, industry/market experience 23, and psychometric elements and/or data.
 [0071] The depth of skill 21 attribute may measure whether the professional services
provided by the seller are the right skill for the buyer. More specifically, depth of skill
determines whether the PSP has the right skills and/or qualifications to complete the
project for the buyer. For example, the seller has JavaTM programming skills; OracleTM
programming skills; or is a qualified accountant or lawyer.
 [0072] The industry/market experience 23 attribute refers to the skills of seller being
based in the right industry for buyer. Importantly, the definition of this characteristic may
 be region focused and this may mean that seller would need to be in the right industry at
the right place. For example, the seller may have industry/market experience in relation to
 "investment banking in London, UK".
 [0073] The relevance of domain knowledge 22 characteristic refers to the seller having
the knowledge in the right domain. The right domain is narrower than industry/market
 experience and is a subset thereof. For example, the right domain for a seller may be
 "credit derivatives" which is a subset of "investment banking in London".

                                                -17
[0074] The psychometric 24 characteristic relates to psychometric profile obtained from
the seller. This allows the buyer to evaluate what role the professional services provider
will play in the project for which for the futures contract is needed. The psychometric
profile or data used for this characteristic may be recorded or acquired from standard
psychometric testing procedures, such as the Canadian Medical Examination Profiling
 System or Myers Brigg Tests. Preferably the outcomes of the psychometric testing should
 give rise to characteristic identification of the seller that includes whether they possess:
team player characteristics, leader characteristics, follower characteristics, and/or self
 starter characteristics. Preferably, the seller may volunteer this information at the time of
 creating their profile. The Myers Brigg Test may also give rise to additional profiling
 information including whether the party subject of the test falls within established criteria
 including but not limited to extraversion or introversion.
 [0075] Preferably, the matching of buyer and seller may be completed electronically by a
 computer program operating through web enabled portals. Preferably, the computer
 program may compare all four of the preferred desired characteristics of the seller profile
 and compare that to the chosen characteristics of buyer as stored in their respective buyer
 profile. The matches may be displayed on buyer or seller interfaces in terms of relevancy
 or a percentage calculated from the proximity of match between the respective profiles.
  [0076] Preferably, the matching of time availability data of the buyer and seller may be
 displayed on buyer interface and/or seller interface. The display of this information may
 be achieved by colour coding time slots with coloured boxes on a screen depicting a
 visual calendar (such as the calendar used in OutlookTM or Apple iCalTM). Time slots may
 be any chosen or preferred time grouping (chosen by the seller). Time slots may be
 hourly, daily, half daily, weekly, monthly, annually or even six minute time intervals.
 Green coloured boxes may mean the particular time slot is available for booking. Red
 coloured boxes may mean the particular time slot is unavailable for booking. Amber or
 yellow coloured boxes may mean the particular time slot is available for booking by
  separate negotiation with the Seller.

                                                -18
[0077] An example of the time availability screens are depicted in Figure 6 & 7. In these
figures, the seller or the candidate may individually upload time availability data to the
computer system. In Figure 6, the time availability is shown on a daily basis to assist the
buyer in making decisions as to whether to proceed with a seller. Figure 6 shows
aggregated data of time availability of all suppliers meeting or matching the desired
attributes of the buyer. In this example, the number of sellers that are available is colour
coded into groups of the availability slot. The slots are coloured according to the amount
of sellers available at a predetermined time interval. The following groupings are shown
 in order of the most sellers available to the least amount of sellers available:
         a) Blue
         b) Green
         c) Yellow
         d) Orange
         e) Red
 [0078] The colour grey is used to denote that no suppliers are available for the criteria
 searched. Additionally, the preferred computer program will adjust the number of sellers
 in each colour group based on the total number of sellers available to meet the desired
 attributes of the buyer.
  [0079] Figure 7 depicts a detailed version of the time availability data. In this example,
 the time availability data is displayed for a single hypothetical candidate, wherein the
  candidate's time is colour coded for instantaneous visual comparison and reference. In
 this example, the displayed data may be colour coded into the following categories: red
  meaning the candidate is not available for the time period; amber meaning partial
  availability or availability that needs to be discussed and resolved with the candidate; or
  green meaning that the candidate is available for booking for the desire time period.

                                               -19
[0080] Figure 3 depicts a visual representation of an example portal interface to be used
with or integrated within the first preferred embodiment of the present invention.
Preferably, the interface screen includes a login area or region for users to login and
identify themselves to the system. The logged users will be identified as either buyers or
sellers of professional services. The interface will be modified to display information
relevant to the user.
 [0081] Further the buyers will be able to enter into the system a profile of the desired
characteristics that they are looking. These desired characteristics are chosen from the 4d
matching characteristics above described. Additionally, they will be required to enter
further data including: amount time to be allocated for their project, rate ranges, start and
 finish dates and other relevant information.
 [0082] The seller will be required to enter a seller profile into the interface. The seller
 profile will have similar information to the buyers profile but it may also include a system
 for entry of time availability. This will allow for time of professional service provider to
 be booked without otherwise double booking their services.
 [0083] Preferably, the interface is adapted to interact with users being buyers or sellers
 over the internet. Further, the system may include FacebookTM integration, LinkedInTM
 integration or other social media integration. Recommendation systems of Linkedln and
 Facebook may be integrated and displayed as part of the seller or buyer profile to aid
 people looking to enter these types of futures contracts.
  [0084] Preferably, the interfaces would also include the capacity for the buyer to book
 time directly onto the seller electronic calendars. To accomplish this, the seller interface
  includes an electronic calendar wherein the time slots of predetermined time increments
  are shown (e.g. 1 hour blocks). Each block, the seller may have designated their
  availability to be booked through the futures contract system herein described. On the
  buyer interface, the buyer will see visually the available time slots or blocks of the seller
  and can pre-book the seller through the futures contract mechanism or system.

                                                 -20
[0085] Alternately, the preferred system may integrate with electronic calendars systems
provided on GoogleTM, Microsoft OutlookTM, or Apple iOSTM .The integration may be
achieved by predetermined time intervals synchronization of data between the various
technology platforms. These synchronizing systems are well known in the field of IT and
web functionality platforms.
 [0086] Figure 4 of the accompanying drawings depicts a schematic view of a possible
payment structure, process and method that may be implemented along with or as part of
the first preferred embodiment of the present invention.
 [0087] In this figure, the process begins with the buyer (which is also referred to in this
 specification as the buyer profile) making a bid on the seller's profile. The seller accepts
 or rejects the bid. If the bid is rejected, the process or system then may request for a
 counter offer or counter bid from the buyer.
 [0088] If the bid is accepted by the seller, the process or system then may assess whether
 the buyer has funds available for the transaction or enough credit for the futures contract.
 The futures contract in this figure is labelled placement.
 [0089] If the buyer has the appropriate funds available, a confirmation email is sent to the
 buyer's email address which is stored in the buyer profile. The email includes a link to
 redirect the user to a preferred payment options website (for example PayPaTM) and the
 recruiter completes the contract with an electronic confirmation on the website. The
 payment options site may preferably be set out as an online shopping cart which is
 commonly known and well described on the internet. The contact details of seller or
 candidate are then fully unlocked to the buyer, once payment has been confirmed and
 receipts have been automatically sent to relevant parties.
  [0090] Various high end professional skills that may be the subject of futures contracts
  under the described system or method of the first preferred embodiment, may generally
  include the following general types: informational technology services, engineering
  services, financial services, legal services, accounting services, research and scientific

                                              -21
services, graphic design services, photography services, writing services, translational
services, sales and marketing services, business advisory services, creative and artistic
(including musical) services, training and educational services, sports and coaching
services, medical and health services, culinary services and chef services, fashion design
and tailoring services.
[0091] Generally, high end professional services differ from regular professional services
in that the high end professional services require: a greater level of skills and training;
and generally more client/buyer interaction.
 [0092] For example, legal services may be supplied by a specific legal advisor working
within a law firm with a high level skills, expertise, experience, and may be also skilled at
working with difficult or complex situations which surpass regular provision of legal
 services.
 [0093] Preferably, the system may also include an automatic verification system wherein
 qualifications and education of professional service providers or sellers is verified. Also
 the system may include an additional system for verifying that the buyer can pay for the
 futures contract by way of a verified: bank account, credit card, SkrillTM or PayPalTM
 account.
 [0094] An example of a profile depicted in a respective interface is shown in Figure 8. In
 this example, a fictional candidate's information is shown. The interface displays
 information from the respective profile including: a photo of the candidate, contact
 details, name, user identification, usage records, availability data and feedback rating
 scores. The feedback rating scores may be generated by third party reviews and
 recommendations of the services provided by the candidate. Preferably, they may
 incorporate a star based rating system in which stars are used to visually show the quality
 of service of the candidate.
  [0095] From the profile screen depicted in Figure 8, the user may be able to access
 additional records in the computer system including other desired attributes. Figure 8

                                             -22
shows links to "My Skills" which is a subset display of the data relating the depth of skill
attribute 21, and "My Availability" which is a subset of the time availability of the
candidate.
[0096] Preferably, the system may also be adapted to include an electronic tendering
system whereby jobs may be posted by buyers and multiple sellers confidentially propose
agreements. The buyer may, after a predetermined time has elapsed, select a professional
service provider or seller from the tenders and automatically enact a futures contract
based on the conditions proposed and agreed between the buyer and selected seller.
[0097] Preferably, all transactions and futures contracts processed by the system or
method would include a predetermined agent's fee being paid to the system or method
operator. This fee will be determined by the operator prior to enacting the futures contract
between the buyer and seller.
 [0098] In this first preferred embodiment of the present invention, the computer program
may function as an intermediary between the buyer and seller. It is noted that other
 intermediaries may be used instead of the computer program, namely, a person following
the same method as the above described computer program could be regarded as an
 alternative intermediary.
 [0099] In a further embodiment of the present invention or an improvement to the first
 embodiment, a method, process or system may be provided wherein it has been designed
 within the preferred system to enable a single user to "register" multiple Skill Profiles
 each representing one facet of that user's experience, knowledge, qualifications and other
 attributes that may be desirable for a buyer to know.
 [00100]          Each user may have unlimited numbers of Skill Profiles (SP).
 [00101]          Each SP may include the following attributes as a minimum:
 a    Skill Profile Title (1:1)

                                              -23
*   Skill Profile Summary Description (1:1)
* Skill Profile Keywords (1:n)
* Relevant Experiences (1:n)
* Relevant Qualifications (1:n)
*   Relevant Languages (1:n)
" Client Ratings (1:n)
" Availability Calendar (1:1)
* Pricing (1:1)
* Intellectual Assets (1:n)
[00102]          As a result, each user may have nth (i.e. unlimited) variations of the above
set of attributes to present to a potential buyer, within the one user account. However the
aforementioned variations are preferred.
 [00103]          An example of this method, process or system is demonstrated in the
following example:
     * A user has two (2) Skill Profiles defined:           SP-A and SP-B (with unrelated
         skillsets)
     * He or she may choose to represent SP-A as available between Mondays to
         Thursdays for 6 hours per day, at an hourly rate of $200
     * He or she may choose to represent SP-B as available between Wednesdays to
         Fridays each week for 4 hours per day, at an hourly rate of $350
     * A buyer thus can see both SP-A and SP-B
     *   The buyer decides to make bookings against SP-A for 24 hours (4 days in this
         case), and SP-B for 12 hours (3 days)
     * The same user has thus fully utilised his/her available working hours for the week,
         with 10 hours on Wed between SP-A and SP-B, 6 hours on Monday-Tuesday; 4
         hours on Thursday-Friday, for a total billing of $9000.

                                                -24
[001041         This feature may afford the user much greater flexibility to market his/her
diverse skillsets while maximising utilisation and profitability. For the buyer, having
greater choice and exposure to a more diverse set of Skill Profiles leads to greater
efficiency and ultimately value.
[00105]          Additional Improvement - Team Profiles
[00106]          Professional services trading system should preferably include an element
or feature that allows the interaction of team and it may be important to recognise that
sometimes required skillsets are held amongst a collection of individuals. To reflect this
situation and enable effective trading within the system, a following improvement was
 developed to aid in this functionality: Team Profiles.
 [00107]         A Team Profile (TP) may include a collection of individual Skill Profiles,
 organised in a way that represents greater value for a potential buyer.
 [00108]         It is important at this point to note the relationship between a (provider)
 user, a SP and a TP:
                              User ->     Skill Profiles (-    Team Profile
                              (1:n)                                (n:1)
 [00109]         In addition to listing the individual Skill Profiles within a team, each Team
 Profile typically has the following attributes:
 *   Team Profile Title (1:1)
 *   Team Profile Summary Description (1:1)
  " Team Profile Keywords (1:n)
  " Relevant Team Experiences - not to be confused with individual SP experiences (1:n)
  * Relevant Team Qualifications - not to be confused with individual SP qualifications
      (1:n)
  " Team Client Ratings - not to be confused with individual SP client ratings (1:n)
  * Team Availability Calendar (1:1)

                                              -25
* Team Pricing (1:1)
* Team Intellectual Assets (1:n)
[00110]          This feature may enable a team of individual SP to be grouped for more
efficient utilisation. For example, a team administrator can combine more some
expensive SP with less expensive SP to achieve a "blended rate" that is more profitable
than billing out individual SP.
[00111]          Additional Improvement - Company Profiles
 [00112]          To allow effective administration and tracking of Skill Profiles and Team
Profiles, it may be useful to associate them to a working organisation. This is the concept
and method behind Company Profiles.
 [00113]          A Company Profile may be described as a profile of a working
 organisation, typically a legal entity such as a consultancy or a law firm. It can have one
 or more assigned Company Administrators (super-users).
 [00114]          A Team Profile is typically associated with a Company Profile, while a
 Skill Profile may not necessarily have to be. A Company Administrator has access to see
 and modify Skill Profiles or Team Profiles belonging to that Company, including
 combining Skill Profiles to form teams and assigning separate team administrators to that
 team.
  [00115]         Buyers can search Skill Profiles or Team Profiles by Company, along with
 any other qualifying search attributes.
  [00116]         Additional Improvement - Packaged Offerings
  [00117]         Building on the concept of Team Profiles and Company Profiles, a further
  improved method, process or system may be created for grouping collections of resources
  across different teams and/or companies, called: PackagedOfferings.

                                               -26
[00118]         Packaged Offerings may be a package of services from a potentially
diverse range of providers, for a fixed fee, for a fixed duration.
[00119]         Examples of some Packaged Offerings may include the following itemised
table. Please note that numbers and figures have been supplied as an example:
 Package        Offerings                                                               Cost / Duration
 #1             One of:                                                                 $500 /month
                - 2 hours from an expert CFO, or
                - 2 hours from an expert CTO / CIO, or
                - 2 hours from an expert startup lawyer, or
                - 2 hours from an expert sales coach, or
                - 2 hours from an expert marketing specialist, or
                - 2 hours from a serial entrepreneur / CEO advisor
  #2            One of:                                                                 $4000 /month
                - 8 hours from an expert CxO, or
                - 6 hours from an expert corporate lawyer or IP attorney
  #3            Either:                                                                 $10,000 / month
                - 20 hours from an expert CxO, and
                - 80 hours from experienced mid-level professional
                Or:
                - 14 hours from an expert corporate lawyer or IP attorney
                - 50 hours from an experienced para-legal professional
 [00120]         These packages may be constructed / contracted between different service
 providers across different companies, for one simple, fixed cost for the buyer.
 [00121]         All the availability booking and ratings functionalities mentioned
 previously still apply, providing greater visibility, flexibility, and choice for both buyers
 and providers.
 [00122]          It has the added benefits for the provider of delivering secured cash-flow
 and certainty of future utilisation, true to the stated goals of futures contracts for
 professional services.

                                              -27
[00123]         Although the invention has been described with reference to specific
examples, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be
embodied in many other forms, in keeping with the broad principles and the spirit of the
invention described herein.
[00124]         The present invention and the described preferred embodiments
specifically include at least one feature that is industrial applicable.

                                             -28
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   l.. A system for facilitating a futures contract for professional services between a
       buyer and a seller, comprising:
       a computer program being run on one or more computer processors and accessing
       one or more databases within an informational storage component; wherein the
       informational storage component provides for storing a plurality of buyer groups,
       a plurality of buyer profiles associated with buyer groups, a plurality of seller
       groups, a plurality of seller profiles associated with seller groups associated with
       seller profiles;
       wherein the buyer profiles and the seller profiles respectively include at least one
       set of desired attributes;
       Wherein the computer program provides for a seller interface adapted to receive
       information relating to a seller profile and a buyer interface adapted to receive
       information relating to a buyer profile;
       Wherein the computer program matches the desired attributes between one buyer
       profile and at least one seller profile selected from the seller groups to identify a
       preferred seller and the computer program is adapted to allow the buyer to make
       an offer for the futures contract to the preferred seller; And further wherein the
       preferred seller accepts the offer and the computer program effects the futures
       contract between the buyer and the preferred seller.
  2. The system of claim 1, wherein the desired attributes include: a depth of skill
       attribute.

                                         -29
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the desired attributes include: a relevance of
    domain knowledge attribute.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the desired attributes include: an industry and
    market experience attribute.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the desired attributes include: a psychometric
    profile attribute.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the provisions of the futures contract include: a
    predetermined fee rate of the seller; a predetermined amount of time the seller is
    to provide professional services; a start and finish date for delivery of the
    professional services.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the system is adapted to display on buyer
    interface or seller interface information relating to an electronic calendar
    including information relating to the future availability of the seller.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the future availability of the seller is agreed upon
    by both seller and buyer, and forms part of the futures contract.
9. The system of claim 5, wherein the psychometric profile attribute identifies the
    seller from one of the following selected group: team player, leader, self-starter or
    follower.
10. The system of claim 5, wherein the industry and market experience attribute
    include data specifying the location of the experience.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is provided by an online portal adapted
    to function across the internet.

                                          -30
12. The system of claim 5, wherein the professional services may be selected from
    one of the following group: informational technology services, engineering
    services, financial services, legal services, accounting services, research and
    scientific services,   graphic design services, photography services,         writing
    services, translational services, sales and marketing services, business advisory
    services,   creative  and artistic   (including musical)    services,  training   and
    educational services, sports and coaching services, medical and health services,
    culinary services and chef services, fashion design and tailoring services
13. The system of claim 5, wherein the system includes an electronic tendering
    system, whereby the buyer posts a job proposal and multiple sellers are invited to
    make counter proposals and then after a predetermined time period, the buyer
    selects a preferred seller through buyer interface.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the futures contract is tradable or transferable at
    the discretion of the buyer.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the futures contract includes a cancellation fee
    and wherein said cancellation fee is between 1 and 150% of the total monetary
    value of the futures contract.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the cancellation fee is payable by either buyer or
    seller who breaches the futures contract.
17. A method for facilitating a futures contract for professional services between a
    buyer in a group of buyers and a seller in a group of sellers, wherein seller is a
    provider of professional services, comprising:
        a. The buyer notifies an intermediary of a first set desired attributes;

                                         -31
        b. The seller notifies the intermediary of second set desired attributes;
        c. The intermediary compares first and second set of desired characteristics
            of all relevant sellers in the group of sellers with the buyer to find the
            matches based on relevance and notifies buyer;
        d. The buyer chooses a preferred seller;
        e. The buyer and the preferred seller agree on terms of the futures contract
            including: a start and finish date for delivery of the professional services,
            cancellation fee for buyer and seller, time availability of the seller and fee
            rates of the seller; and
        f. The intermediary effects the futures contract between the buyer and seller.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the first and second sets of desired attributes
    include: a depth of skill attribute, a relevance of domain knowledge attribute, an
    industry and market experience attribute, and a psychometric profile attribute.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the method is adapted to be resolved
    electronically using separate interfaces for the buyer and seller.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the intermediary is an automated computer
    program adapted to interact with buyer and seller and wherein the interfaces are
    web-enabled portals.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the futures contract is tradable or transferable at
    the discretion of the buyer.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the cancellation fee is between 1 and 150% of
    the total monetary value of the futures contract.

                                            -32
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the cancellation fee is payable by either buyer or
    seller who breaches the futures contract.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the psychometric profile attribute identifies the
    seller from one of the following selected group: team player, leader, self-starter or
    follower.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the industry and market experience attribute
    include data specifying the location of the experience.
26. An electronic interface system for facilitating a futures contract for professional
    services between a buyer and a seller, including:
         a. A buyer interface for use by the buyer, wherein the buyer enters data into
             buyer interface relating to the preferred time availability to be provided
             pursuant to the futures contract;
         b. A seller interface for use by the seller, wherein the seller enters data into
             seller interface relating to time availability into seller interface;
         c. A computer program, which connects the buyer and seller interface and
             matches time availability for the booking of a futures contract, wherein the
             buyer interface and the seller interface are adapted to operate through the
             internet.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the computer program displays time availability
    in a series of colour coded boxes on either of the buyer interface or seller
    interface.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
