ABSTRACT
Disclosed herein is an idler (10).  The idler (10) comprises a rotor (10) configured to
rotate around an axis (14). The idler (10) comprises an outer bearing surface (15). The
idler comprises an information generator (20) configured to generate idler information
comprising information about the idler (10).

                   2/i
      a
                 t  ~'
            A
           no
                 I     N
to
              9>
   to
                         N
                         N
00
'I
                         N
                             0
                            2~
                            S
                         to
        to               00
        N

                                                                                          P/00/011
                                                                                  Regulation 3.2(2)
                                        AUSTRALIA
                                     Patents Act 1990
                                         ORIGINAL
                         COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                   STANDARD PATENT
Application No.
Lodged:
Invention Title:      AN IDLER, A METHOD FOR MONITORING A PLURALITY OF IDLERS;
                      AND A CONVEYOR SYSTEM
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to:

                                              2
AN IDLER, A METHOD FOR MONITORING A PLURALITY OF IDLERS; AND A
CONVEYOR SYSTEM
Technical field
[0001]     The disclosure herein generally relates to an idler, a conveyor system
comprising a plurality of idlers, and a method for monitoring a plurality of idlers,
Background
[0002]      Conveyors, including but not limited to conveyor belts, may be used to
transport objects and materials, examples of which include but are not limited to bulk
materials, packages, agricultural products, people and bags. An example of a conveyor
belt generally but not necessarily comprises a belt looped around spaced apart terminal
wheels, at least one of the terminal wheels may be powered to circulate the belt. An
upper portion of the belt and the material conveyed thereon is generally supported by a
plurality of idlers located between the terminal wheels. The plurality of idlers are free to
rotate around their respective axis. Idlers are also known as rollers. Figure 1 shows an
idler stand 100 having three prior art idlers 102, 104, 106. The idlers 102, 104, 106 are
mounted to a frame 108 ready to receive the upper portion of the belt.
[0003]      Some conveyors, examples of which may be found at a mine, quarry, or port,
may be 100's of metres or kilometres long and may carry many tonnes of excavated bulk
material for extended periods of time.        Because these conveyor belts may have
thousands of idlers, the probability of an idler failing is relatively high. Idler failure may
result in undesirable consequences including:
      *     delayed delivery of excavated bulk material causing significant financial loss,
      *     damage to the conveyor belt which may be time consuming and costly to
            repair;
      *     a tire, which may be paliicularly disastrous if the bulk material (e.g. coal) is
           flammable;

                                              3
and
*        a safety hazard to nearby people.
[0004]      One current practice is to regularly measure the temperature of idlers by, for
example, using a thermographic camera. The camera may identify hot idlers that have
or nearly have failed. This may be labour intensive. As it is difficult to simultaneously
monitor the temperature of all of a conveyor belt's idlers by this practice, a failed or
nearly failed idler may not be detected before an undesirable consequence occurs.
Furthermore, it may be considerably inconvenient and expensive to stop the conveyor
and replace an idler that has or nearly has failed.
[0005]      Another practice is early replacement of idlers to reduce the probability of idler
failure.   Replacement of the idler may be conveniently performed during a conveyor
maintenance period that is scheduled during the life of the conveyor. It may be difficult to
accurately determine the age of an idler, however, and how much longer it may last.
Removing an idler too early may be wasteful. Removing an idler too late, however, may
present an unacceptable risk of idler failure and an undesirable consequence.
Summary
[0006]      Disclosed herein is an idler. The idler comprises a rotor configured to rotate
around an axis and comprising an outer bearing surface.            The idler comprises an
information generator configured to generate idler information comprising information
about the idler.
[0007]      In an embodiment, the rotor comprises an idler shell.
[0008]      The idler information may be, for example, indicative of at least one property of
the idler. The idler information may be used to detect a failure in the idler. The idler
information may indicate that an idler is scheduled for replacement.               The idler
information may indicate the idler's position in a conveyor, some examples of which may
have thousands or hundreds of thousands of idlers. This may make locating an idler
difficult.

                                                4
[0009]      In an embodiment, the idler information comprises rotation information that
comprises information about the rotation of the rotor around the axis.
[0010]      In an embodiment, the rotation information may comprise rotation number
information comprising information about a number of rotations of the rotor around the
axis. The number of rotations may be indicative of an effective age of the idler. Because
the number of rotations is known, the replacement of an idler too early or too late may be
avoided, which may result in savings while maintaining the risk of idler failure at an
acceptable level.     The rotation number information may indicate that the number of
rotations of the rotor around the axis satisfies a number of rotations condition.           The
number of rotations condition may comprise a condition that the number of rotations one
of equals a threshold number of rotations and exceeds the threshold number of rotations.
Alternatively or additionally, the rotation number information may indicate the number of
rotations of the rotor.
[0011]      In an embodiment, the rotation information may comprise rotational velocity
information about a rotational velocity of the rotor. An idler for which the idler information
indicates that the rotational velocity is less than expected, for example zero, may have
failed. The rotational velocity information may indicate that the rotational velocity of the
rotor satisfies a rotational velocity condition.       The rotation velocity condition may
comprise a condition that the rotational velocity of the rotor is one of equal to and less
than a rotational velocity threshold. The rotation velocity condition may comprise that the
rotational velocity of the rotor is zero. The rotation velocity condition may comprise that
the rotational velocity of the rotor is irregular. Alternatively or additionally, the rotational
velocity information may indicate that the rotational velocity of the rotor.
[0012]      An embodiment comprises an electrical generator arranged to generate
electricity from the rotation of the rotor around the axis.       The electricity may be for
powering the idler, including for example the information generator. There may be no
need to individually wire the idler for power. The electricity when so generated may be
periodic.     The information generator may be in electrical communication with the
electrical generator.    The information generator may be configured to analyse the
electricity for the generation of the rotation information. The information generator may
comprise an electricity analyser configured to analyse the electricity for the generation of

                                                 5
the rotation information. The information generator may be configured to detect at least
one of a plurality of power peaks in the electricity and a plurality of zero power crossings
in the electricity for generation of the rotation information. Alternatively or additionally,
the information generator is configured to generate sample information by temporally
sampling the electricity and using the sample information to compute at least one of the
plurality of power peaks in the electricity and the plurality of zero power crossings in the
electricity.
[0013]       An embodiment comprises a stator. In the context of this document, the stator
is a stationary part of the idler.        The stator may comprise a shaft.       The electrical
generator may comprise a magnet and electrical circuitry. The electrical circuitry may
comprise at least one wire coil.            The electrical circuitry may comprise generator
electronics. One of the magnet and the electrical circuitry may be attached to the rotor
and the other of the magnet and the electrical circuitry may be attached to the stator.
The magnet and the electrical circuitry may be cooperatively arranged to generate the
electricity within the electrical circuitry when the rotor rotates around the axis.
[0014]       An embodiment comprises a circuit board disposed around the stator and
comprising the electrical circuitry. The circuit board may be a toroidal circuit board. The
circuit board may be disposed within an enclosure comprising the magnet. The circuit
board may be fixed to the rotor. The enclosure may comprise a magnetic circuit having
the at least one magnet. The magnetic circuit may be configured to concentrate the at
least one magnet's magnetic field within the electrical circuitry.
[0015]       An embodiment comprises a power storage device in electrical communication
with the electrical generator for storing the electricity. The power storage device may
comprise a capacitor.          A capacitor may not suffer from the limited operational
temperature range and limited life span of a battery, for example. A capacitor may be
used in an idler operable safely at an elevated temperature for years. Power may be
drawn from the capacitor after the rotor has ceased rotating. A capacitor may not suffer
from the limited operational temperature range and limited life span of a battery, for
example. Power may be drawn from the capacitor after the rotor has ceased rotating.
[0016]       The rotation information, however, may be generated              by any suitable

                                             6
alternative. For example, an embodiment comprises at least one of a hall effect sensor,
optical encoder, a proximity switch, a contact switch, a rotary potentiometer and a rotary
variable differential transformer in communication with the information generator for the
generation of the rotation information.
[0017]     In an embodiment, the idler information comprises temperature information
about a temperature.       The temperature may be that of an idler component.           The
temperature information may indicate that the temperature satisfies a temperature
condition. The temperature condition may comprise a condition that the temperature at
least one of equals and exceeds a threshold temperature. The temperature condition
may comprise a condition that that temperature one of equals and exceeds the threshold
temperature for period that one of equals and exceeds a period value. Additionally or
alternatively, the temperature information is indicative of the temperature.            The
temperature may be an average of a plurality of temporally spaced apart temperature
measurements.      A temperature sensor may be in communication with the information
generator.    The temperature sensor may be in thermal communication with an idler
bearing. The temperature sensor may be disposed within an idler bearing aperture. The
temperature sensor may he in thermal communication with the idler shell.
[0018]     An embodiment comprises the temperature sensor.
[0019]     In an embodiment, the idler information indicative of information about the idler
comprises idler vibration information about a vibration generated by the idler. The idler
vibration information may indicate that the idler vibration satisfies a vibration condition.
The vibration condition may comprise a condition that a characteristic of the vibration at
least one of equals and exceeds a vibration characteristic value. The vibration condition
may comprise a condition that the vibration comprises at least one frequency component
characteristic of a defective idler.
[0020]     An embodiment comprises a vibration sensor configured to generate a
vibration signal. The information generator may have a frequency filter selected to pass
a frequency component of the vibration signal characteristic of a defective idler. The
frequency filter may comprise a bandpass filter. The vibration sensor may comprise a
microphone. Additionally or alternatively, the vibration sensor comprises at least one of

                                             7
an accelerometer, a displacement sensor, and a piezoelectric vibration sensor.
[0021]     An embodiment comprises memory in communication with the information
generator. The memory may have idler identification information. The idler information
indicative of information about the idler may comprise the idler identification information.
The memory may have a location information indicative of the location of the idler. This
may simplify and automate idler identification, especially in systems that may have
thousands of idlers.
[0022]     An embodiment comprises a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) device.
The RFID device may comprise the memory or another memory. The RFID device may
be configured for the memory or the other memory to be written by a RFID scanner. The
RFID device may be configured for the memory to be read by the RFID scanner. Idlers
may be easily identified using the RFID scanner.
[0023]     An embodiment comprises a radio transmitter in communication with the
information generator.    The radio transmitter may be arranged to send a radio signal
carrying the idler information.
[0024]     An embodiment comprises a network interface configured to send the idler
information via a network. The acquisition of the idler information may be automated,
and may reduce or eliminate the need for a technician to individually inspect each idler of
a conveyor. The network interface may be configured to send a radio signal carrying the
idler information via a radio network. There may be no need to individually wire the idler
for communications.      The network interface may comprise a radio network interface
configured to cooperate with a plurality of radio network interfaces of a plurality of idlers
to form at least pan of the radio network. The network interface may comprise a radio
network interface configured to cooperate with the plurality of radio network interfaces of
a plurality of idlers and a gateway to form the radio network. The radio network may
comprise a radio mesh network. The radio network interlace may comprise a radio mesh
network interface.
[0025]      In an embodiment, the idler may have a mode of operation in which the idler
information is sent only when an idler information condition is satisfied. Idler information

                                              8
conditions may comprise at least one of the number of rotations condition, the rotation
velocity condition, the temperature condition, and the vibration condition, for example.
The mode of operation may be the only mode, or it may be one of several modes. The
sending of the idler information may be initiated by the idler on confirmation that the idler
information condition is satisfied. The idler information may, consequently, be sent only
when needed.        This may decrease power requirements and radio network load
compared to another embodiment in which the idler periodically sends idler information,
irrespective of whether an idler information condition is satisfied or not.
[0026]     An embodiment comprises an external aerial A rotary bearing may be coupled
to the shaft and coupled to the rotor. The shaft may be configured to form a passageway
between the shaft and the bearing, the rotor comprises an idler shell impenetrable by the
radio signal, and an external aerial is in communication with an aerial lead that passes
through the passage. The shaft may have a slotted portion defining a slot. The rotary
bearing may be mounted on the slotted portion. The aerial lead may be disposed in the
slot. The temperature sensor may be disposed in the slot. The slot may comprise a
longitudinal slot. The idler shell may be impermeable to the radio signal.
[0027]     The sensors may be used to detect an impending idler failure. As described,
the parameters monitored by the sensors may include the temperature of the idler's
bearings, the vibration generated by the rotor, vibration frequency levels, the number of
rotations and the rotational velocity of the idler. By using this information, a system in
communication with the idler may be able to detect or predict forthcoming idler failure.
Further, by independently monitoring the temperate of each bearing within the idler
and/or the idler shell, the system may be able to more accurately detect increases in
temperature with a lower cost.
[0028]     Disclosed herein is an idler. The idler comprises a shaft on which is mounted
a rotary bearing coupled to an idler shell. The idler comprises an information generator
disposed within an interior of the idler shell and configured to generate idler information
comprising information about the idler.       The idler comprises a radio transmitter in
communication with the information generator for sending a radio signal carrying the idler
information, and comprising an external aerial in communication with an aerial lead that
passes from within the interior of the idler shell to an exterior of the idler shell via a

                                              9
passageway located between the shaft and the rotary bearing.
[0029]     An embodiment comprises a temperature sensor in communication with the
information generator and disposed within the passageway.          The temperature sensor
may be in thermal communication with a bearing.           A seal may be disposed in the
passageway.
[0030]     Disclosed herein is a conveyor system.       The conveyor system comprises a
plurality of idlers in accordance with the above disclosure.         The plurality of idlers
comprises a plurality of network interfaces configured to cooperate to form at least part of
a radio network for communication of idler information sent by the plurality of idlers.
[0031]     In an embodiment, the radio network comprises a radio mesh network.
[0032]     In an embodiment, the plurality of network interfaces are configured to
cooperate with each other and a network gateway to form the radio network for
communication of the idler information. An embodiment comprises a processing system
configured to receive idler information sent by one of the plurality of idlers and in
response present on an electronic display the identity of the one of the plurality of idlers
that sent the idler information. The idler information may comprise idler location
information and the processing system may be configured to present on the electronic
display the location of one of the plurality of idlers that sent the idler information. The
location information may be stored in a RFID device of the one of the plurality of idlers
that send the idler information.
[0033]     Disclosed herein is a method for monitoring a plurality of idlers. The method
comprises the step forming at least part of a radio network with a plurality of network
interfaces of the plurality of idlers. The method comprises the step of one of the plurality
of idlers sending idler information via the radio network. Each of the plurality of idlers is
in accordance with the above disclosure.
[0034]     The radio network may comprise a radio mesh network.
[0035]     An embodiment comprises the step of fanning the radio network with the

                                                 10
plurality of network interfaces of the plurality of idlers and a network gateway.     The
plurality of idlers may act as repeaters allowing the gateway to communicate with those
of the plurality of idlers that are outside of a gateway radio range. The gateway may be a
network master and may be arranged to poll each of the plurality of idlers to obtain idler
information from each of the plurality of idlers. The radio network may be automatically
configured and structured by a process initiated at the gateway, for example by pressing
a button on the gateway or the processor. The gateway may automatically maintain the
structure of the radio network to optimise the quality of the radio network. The network
may automatically use an alternate route in the event that one of the plurality of idlers
fail, or a low quality radio link quality is detected.
[0036]       An embodiment comprises the step of a processor receiving the idler
information sent by the one of the plurality of processors. The identity of the one of the
plurality of idlers that sent the idler information on may be displayed on an electronic
display. The processor may be arranged to present human interpretable information
generated from the idler information. For example, a visual or audible message may be
generated by the processor when an idler has failed or is expected to fail.
[0037]       In an embodiment, the idler information comprises idler location information
and the method comprises the step of providing the location of the one of the plurality of
idlers. The plurality of idlers may be in accordance with the above disclosure.
[0038]       Any of the various features of each of the above disclosures, and of the
various features of the embodiments described below, can be combined as suitable and
desired.
 Brief description of the figures
[0039]       Embodiments will now be described by way of example only with reference to
the accompanying figures in which:
         Figure 2 shows an embodiment of an idler,
         Figure 3 shows a schematic diagram of on information generator of the idler of

                                            11
       figure 2,
       Figure 4 shows part of an example of a conveyor system,
       Figure 5 shows a schematic diagram of a radio network,
       Figure 6 shows a flow diagram 46 of an embodiment of a method for monitoring
       the plurality of idlers,
       Figure 7 shows an exploded view of an embodiment of an idler monitoring module
       of the idler of figure 2,
       Figure 8 shows a cross-section through the idler of figure 2,
       Figure 9 shows a view of a shaft of the idler of figure 2.
       Figure 10 shows a block diagram of a vibration detection system of the idler of
       figure 2.
       Figure 11 shows a diagram of RFID communications with the idler of figure 2,
       Figure 12 shows an a diagram of an embodiment of the gateway used with the
       idler of figure 2,
       Figure 13 shows a schematic block diagram of the gateway 40 of figure 12.
Description of embodiments
[0040]     Figure 2 shows an embodiment of an idler, the idler being generally indicated
by the numeral 10. The idler 10 has a rotor 12 configured to rotate around an axis 14.
The rotor 12 has an outer bearing surface 15 that is shown transparently in figure 2. The
idler 10 has an information generator 20, a schematic diagram of which is shown in
figure 3.    The information generator 20 is configured to generate idler information
comprising information about the idler. The idler information may, for example, comprise

                                             12
information that may be used to determine if the idler is defective, requires attention or
inspection.
[0041]     The information generator 20 is housed within a housing 22 of an idler
monitoring module 24 disposed within the idler. In an alternative embodiment, however,
the information generator may not be housed in an idler monitoring module 24.             The
outer bearing surface 15d is an outer surface of an idler shell 16 that is a part of the rotor
12. The inner diameter of the shell is substantially the same as the outer diameter of the
idler monitoring module 24, so that there is a friction or interference fit between them. An
adhesive may be applied to the outer diameter of the idler monitoring module before
being inserted into the shell to ensure attachment therebetween.                In the present
embodiment, the idler shell 16 comprises a steel cylinder. In alternative embodiments,
however, the idler shells 16 may comprise a polymer in the form of, for example, high
density polyethylene, nylon, or generally any suitable polymer. The idler shell 16 may be
generally form of any suitable material. The idler 10 has a shaft 86 centred on the axis
14 and on opposite ends of which are mounted rotary bearings 88, 89 (best viewed in
figure 8). The rotary bearings 88, 89 couple the rotor 12 to the shaft 88.
[0042]     The idler 10 has a radio transmitter 39 in communication with the information
generator 20 and is arranged to transmit a radio signal carrying the idler information.
The idler information may be received at a remote processor, for example, at which the
idler information may be presented to a user or used to activate user alerts.
[0043]      Figure 4 shows part of an example of a conveyor system 26. The conveyor
system 26 has a plurality of idlers of which the idlers indicated by numerals 28, 30, and
32 are representative. The idlers 28, 30, 32 are the same as idler 10, in this but not all
embodiments. The outer bearing surface of the plurality of idlers 28, 30, 32 in this but
not all embodiments support a belt 34 of the conveyor system.               Figure 5 shows a
schematic diagram of a radio network 36 in the form of a radio mesh network formed at
least in part by the cooperation of the plurality of network interfaces 38 of the plurality of
idlers 28, 30, 32.     In alternative embodiments, the radio network may a WiFi radio
network. Alternatively a cabled Ethernet network may be used, or generally any suitable
network. The network interfaces 38 are configured to send the radio signal carrying the
idler information via the radio mesh network, using the radio transmitter 39. The plurality

                                                13
of network interfaces 38, in this but not necessarily in all embodiments, cooperate with
each other and a network gateway 40 from the radio mesh network.                 The conveyor
system 26 has a processing system 42 in the form of an industrial computer in
communication with the network gateway 40. The processing system 42 is configured to
receive idler information sent by one of the plurality of idlers. In response to receiving
the idler information, the processing system 42 may present on an electronic display 44
the identity of the one of the plurality of idlers that sent the idler information. In this but
not necessarily in all embodiments, the idler information also comprises idler location
information. The processing system is configured, in this embodiment, to present on the
electronic display 44 the location of the one of the plurality of idlers that sent the idler
information.
[0044]      Figure 6 shows a flow diagram 46 of an embodiment of a method for
monitoring the plurality of idlers 28, 30, 32 that may be executed by the conveyor system
26. The method comprises the step 48 of forming at least part of the radio mesh network
36 with the plurality of network interfaces 38 of the plurality of idlers.        The method
comprises the step 50 of one of the plurality of idlers send idler information via the radio
mesh network 36. In this but not in all embodiments, the method comprises forming the
radio mesh network with the plurality of network interfaces 38 of the plurality of idlers 28,
30, 32 and a network gateway 40.              In this but not all embodiments, the method
comprises the step of the processor 42 receiving the idler information sent by the one of
the plurality of idlers 28, 30, 32, and displaying on an electronic display the identity of the
one of the plurality of idlers that sent the idler information.
[0045]      The idler information may generally comprise any information about the idler
that generated it.      In this but not necessarily all embodiments, the idler information
generated by the information generator 20 comprises rotation information that comprises
information about the rotation of the rotor 12 around the axis 14. In this embodiment, the
rotation information comprises rotation number information comprising information about
the number of rotations of the rotor 12 around the axis 14. For example, the information
generator may determine if the number of rotations of the rotor 12 around the axis 14
satisfies a number of rotations condition. For example, some idlers are be known to the
significantly more likely to fail after a threshold number, say 1 million, of rotations. If the
number of rotations equals or exceeds the threshold number of rotations, then the

                                               14
rotation number information indicates that the number of rotations has exceeded the
threshold number of rotations. This is an example of an alarm generated by the idler.
Additionally or alternatively, the rotation information indicates the number of rotations of
the rotor.    The number of rotations of the rotor 12 may be communicated to the
processor 42 either directly or via the gateway 40, which may then store the number of
rotations in an idler database, for example.         The processor 42 may determine if the
necessary conditions are met for an alert and subsequently may display on the electronic
display 44 an alert when the number of rotations of an idler exceeds the threshold
number of rotations. The rotation information may also be used to determine the amount
of available power to the idler 10.
[0046]      The rotation information, in this but not all embodiments, comprises rotational
velocity information about a rotational velocity of the rotor 12. For example, the rotational
velocity information in this embodiment indicates that the rotational velocity satisfies a
rotational velocity condition, which in this embodiment is that the rotational velocity of the
rotor 12 is equal to or less than a rotational velocity threshold. This is another example
of alarm generated by the idler. An idler that has failed or failing may have a very low
rotational velocity or even a zero rotational velocity. The rotational velocity condition may
be that the rotational velocity of the rotor 12 is irregular, which may indicate a failed or
failing idler. The rotational velocity may be periodically determined by the information
generator and monitored for changes in the rotational velocity.               Alternatively or
additionally, the rotational velocity information may indicate the rotational velocity of the
rotor 12. Using the rotational velocity information indicating the rotational velocity of the
rotor 12, the processor 42 may determine if a condition for an alert. The processor 42
may display on the electronic display 44 an alert when the velocity of an idler is not what
is expected, for example if the rotational velocity is equal to or less than a rotational
velocity threshold or the rotational velocity is irregular.
[0047]      The rotations of the rotor 12 may be determined by any suitable rotation
monitor 124. For example, the idler may comprise at least one of a hall effect sensor, an
optical encoder, a proximity switch, a contact switch, a rotary potentiometer and a rotary
variable differential transformer, in communication with the information generator 20 for
the generation of the rotation information.

                                               15
[0048]      In the present embodiment the idler comprises an electrical generator 25
arranged to generate electricity from the rotation of the rotor 12 around the axis 14. The
electricity when so generated by a normal idler is periodic, and the information generator
20, which is in electrical communication with the electrical generator, is configured to
analyse the electricity for the generation of the rotation information.
[0049]      The information     generator 20 has a control circuit in the form         of a
microprocessor.      The microprocessor has an electricity analyser 23 configured to
analyse the electricity for the generation of the rotation information. In the present but
not all embodiments, the electricity analyser is defined by program instructions executed
by the microprocessor.      The electricity analyser is, in this embodiment, configured to
detect at least one of a plurality of power peaks in the electricity and a plurality of zero
power crossings in the electricity.      Alternatively, the information generator may be
configured to generate sample information by temporarily sampling the electricity and
using the sampled information to compute at least one of the plurality of power peaks in
the electricity and the plurality of zero power crossings in the electricity. A comparator
may be used and the information generator may count the number of state changes of
the comparator output. The information generator has a clock 129, which may be used
to determine the rotation period and subsequently the rotational velocity.
[0050]      The idler 10 may have a power storage device in electrical communication with
the electrical generator for storing the electricity.     Consequently, the idler may still
transmit idler information for a period after the rotor 12 ceases to rotate.    The power
storage device may be, for example, a capacitor or a battery.
[0051]      Figure 7 shows an exploded view of the idler monitoring module 24 with a first
half 200 of the housing 22 separated from a second half 202 of the housing 22. The idler
monitoring module 24 has magnets 116, printed circuit board (PCB) 118 having electrical
circuitry including a coil 115 and the information generator 20 (on the far side of the
PCB). The circuit board 118 is a toroidal circuit board. The magnets 116 are affixed to
metal brackets 113.      The magnets 116 are arranged on the metal brackets 113 in
alternating polarity so that a dosed magnetic loop of attracting opposite poles are formed
when the housing 22 is assembled. The metal brackets 113 and the magnets 116 form a
closed magnetic path that concentrates the magnetic field travelling across the air gap

                                              16
between each half of the housing 22. The housing 23 is affixed to an inside rotor wall
183 and rotates with the rotor 22.
[0052]     The coil 115 is wound onto a former 117 which are fixed to the PCB 118. The
PCB 118 is located within the housing 22 and is attached to an idler shaft 86 by at least
one adjustable foot 87. Generally any suitable form of attachment, for example a friction
fit, may be used.
[0053]     Accordingly, the coils 115 and the PCB 118 do not rotate with the rotor and
housing 22 but remain stationary with the idler shaft 86. As the housing 22 rotates, the
coils 115 pass through the middle of the magnetic fields formed between the opposing
magnets 116 and a voltage is generated on each coil. The coils 115 are wired in series
on the PCB 118 and in polarity so that their voltages add.       The cumulative generated
voltage is rectified by the idler power supply 126 and used to power the circuitry.
[0054]     A temperature of the idler 10 may be monitored to detect bearing failure. For
example, the idler may determine when the magnitude of the temperatures exceeds
programmable thresholds.
[0055]     The idler information may comprise temperature information            about the
temperature. The temperature may be that of the shaft 86 or bearing 88, the idler shell
16, or another part for example. Figure 8 shows a cross-section through the idler 10.
The temperature sensor 121 is in communication with the information generator 20 via a
temperature sensor lead 200. The temperature sensor 121 is disposed within an idler
bearing aperture 202 and is in thermal communication with an idler bearing 88. Figure 9
shows the shaft 86. The shaft 86 is configured to form a passageway between the shaft
86 and the bearing 88. The shaft has a slotted portion 204 at one end thereof defining
the slot 206 in which the temperature sensor is disposed (there is another temperature
sensor in slot 210).      The rotary bearing 88 is mounted on the slotted portion 206.
Disposed in the slot is a seal 220 in the form of a resilient boot, for example a rubber or
silicon boot. The seal 220 may prevent moisture and dust, for example, entering the idler
which may degrade performance.
[0056]     In embodiments where the temperature information is that of the shell, a

                                                 17
temperature sensing may be attached to the housing 22.
[0057]      The temperature sensor 121 converts temperature produced by the Idler
bearings to an electrical signal, which is processed by analogue and/or digital
electronics within the idler. This embodiment has a negative temperature coefficient
(NTC), however, a thermocouple, for example, may be used, but is more expensive and
is more complex to implement.
[0058]      The information generator 20 is in this but not necessarily in all embodiments
configured to average a plurality of temporally spaced apart temperature measurements.
The information     generator 20 may include in the idler information temperature
information derived using the temperature sensor 121, for example the temporally
averaged temperature measurements. The information generator 20 is configured to test
if the temperature satisfies a temperature condition, and if so include in the idler
information temperature information          indicating that the temperature satisfies the
temperature condition.        For example, the temperature condition may be that the
temperature at least one of equals and exceeds a threshold temperature.             A failed or
failing bearing may have an elevated temperature. Alternatively or additionally, the idler
information may be indicative of the temperature.         In an alternative embodiment. The
temperature sensor 121 is damped to the shaft 86, or is on the circuit board. The close
proximity of the sensors to each bearing may allow the temperature of each bearing to
be measured accurately and within a short time period (low thermal mass).
[0059]      Being of steel, the idler shell 16 is impenetrable by radio signals. The idler has
an external aerial 214.      The shaft 86 has another slotted portion 208 at another end
thereof defining another longitudinal slot 210. Another rotary bearing 89 is mounted on
the other slotted portion 208.      The slotted portion to define another passageway 218
located between the shaft 86 and the rotary bearing 89. The external aerial 214 of the
idler is in communication with an aerial lead 216 that passes through the passage 218
from within the interior of the idler 10 to the exterior of the idler 10. The aerial lead 16 is
in communication with a digital radio comprising a radio transmitter which forms part of
the network interface 38. Disposed in the other slot 210 is a seal 220 in the form of a
resilient boot, for example a rubber or silicon boot. Another temperature sensor may
also be disposed in the slot 21 and within the aperture of the other bearing 89.

                                               18
[0060]     The vibrations emitted by the bearings within the Idler are monitored to detect
bearing failure. Vibrational energy within specific frequency bands are measured.           It is
determined when the audio energy in these bands exceeds programmable thresholds.
When thresholds are exceeded, an alarm may be generated.
[0061]     The idler 10 has two vibration sensors 122 and 123 to detect vibrations
generated by the idler 10.        The vibration sensors convert detected vibrations into
electrical signals that are processed in the information generator.        Figure 10 shows a
block diagram of a vibration detection system of the idler 10. Vibration sensor 122 is
arranged to detect vibrations transmitted through the idler 10.                In the present
embodiment, vibration sensor 122 is a 3-Axis MEMs digital accelerometer which may
have low cost and good receiver sensitivity. Vibration sensor 122 may alternatively be,
for example, another type of accelerometer, a MEMs device, a displacement sensor, and
piezoelectric vibration sensor, or a combination of these.           Vibration sensor 123 is
configured to detect vibrations transmitted through the air, and is in the form of a
microphone. An omni-directional Electret condenser microphone is used in the present
embodiment      due to     its low cost,     good    receiver  sensitivity  and   directionality
characteristics. However, the following example microphone technologies may also be
used. MEMs and Boom, Electret Condenser, Magnetic, and Piezoelectric, for example.
[0062]     The vibration sensors 122 and 123 are mounted, in this but not all
embodiments, on the PCB 118, located within the idler monitoring module 24 near the
middle of the shaft.      This allows the sensors to be PCB mounted, which is more
convenient than using flying leads.      By placing the vibration sensors 122, 123 at the
middle of the Idler, that are able to detect left and right bearings equally.
[0063]     The PCB 118 is, in this embodiment, potted to protect it from dust, moisture,
and the effects of vibration. Accordingly, the microphone will either protrude from the
potting mixture or be located within an aperture in the housing 22, so that it is not
immersed by the potting mixture. A waterproof microphone may be used or alternatively,
the microphone may be protected by a thin resilient boot in the form of a silicon rubber
boot that allows sound to pass through but not moisture or dust. Alternate locations may
include placing microphones directly under each bearing within the slot 206, 210 in the
shaft 86.

                                               19
[0064]      The information generator 20 is in communication with vibration sensors 122
and 123 and receives a first vibration signal from vibration sensor 122 and a second
vibration signal from vibration sensor 123. The first and second vibration signals are
processed by the information generator 20.            The idler information comprises idler
vibration information about a vibration generated by the idler, the vibration information
being generated by the processing the first and second vibration signals.
[0065]      The idler vibration information may indicate that the idler satisfies a vibration
condition.     In this but not necessarily in all embodiments, the vibration condition
comprises a condition that a characteristic of the vibration at least one of equals and
exceeds vibration characteristic value. Figure 10 shows a block diagram of a vibration
detection module of information generator (the vibration sensor 122,123 external of the
information generator is shown in dashing). For example, the magnitude of the vibration
may exceed a vibration threshold. Defective idlers are known to generate characteristic
vibration frequencies. The vibration condition may comprise a condition that the vibration
comprises at least one frequency component characteristic of a defective idler (or
hearing), thus indicating that the idler is likely to be effective. The information generator
may have a frequency filter, for example, selected to pass the frequency component of
the vibration signal characteristic of a defective idler (or bearing). The bandpass filter
may suppress general noise so that the alert is preferentially triggered by sounds that
relate to the failure mode frequencies of the bearings/idler.         The frequencies of the
bandpass filter and other filter characteristics may be modified to suit the specific failure
mode frequencies for the different idler/bearing being monitored. The filter is in this but
not all embodiments a hardware implemented filter, for example one of a 2nd order
active operation amplifier bandpass filter, a low pass active operational amplifier
bandpass filter, a high pass active operational amplifier bandpass filter, and an inductor
capacitor (LC) passive bandpass filter. The filter may be a finite impulse response (IIR)
filter, an infinite impulse response (IIR) filter. A fast Fourier transform (FFT) technique
may be used. A software implementation of the Bandpass filter may be modifiable to the
failure mode frequencies of different idler bearing manufacturers. However, a software
implementation may be more power intensive in comparison to the hardware based
solution.
[0066]      A peak detector 153 extracts the magnitude of energy of the beating failure

                                               20
mode frequencies extracted by the bandpass filter 151.              In this embodiment, the
implementation is a hardware peak detector, in the form of an active precision rectifier
followed by a low pass tilter. This implementation may be cost effective, may be easy to
implement and may provide low power characteristics.
[0067]      The peak detector may alternatively be implemented in software in the
following methods: Correlation Filter; and Standard Deviation and Variance Statistical
Algorithms, for example.
[0068]      A decision algorithm 155 processes the output of the peak detector to
determine if the peak exceeds a peak threshold value.
[0069]      A software implementation of the peak detector may be modifiable so that it
accommodates the failure mode frequencies of different idler bearing manufacturers.
However, it may be more power intensive in comparison to the hardware based solution.
[0070]      The magnitude of energy from the peak detector 153 is compared to a
threshold. If the threshold exceeds a set level for a configured period of time, an alarm
will be triggered.
[0071]      The idler 10 has memory 128 in communication with the information generator
20. The memory has idler identification information. For example, the idler identification
information may comprise a series of characters or bits that may constitute a serial
number.      The information generator 20 may retrieve from memory 128 the idler
identification information and include it in the idler information. Consequently, when idler
information is sent indicating that an idler may be faulty the idler can be identified. In this
but not all embodiments, a memory also has idler location information indicative of the
location of the idler. In this embodiment, the idler location information is indicative of the
location of the idler on the conveyor 26.
[0072]      The memory 128 is in this but not necessarily all embodiments incorporated in
a radio frequency identification (RFID) device comprising the memory 128.            Figure 11
shows a diagram of RFID communications with the idler.               The RFD device 127 is
configured for the memory to be written and read by a RFID scanner. For example, the

                                              21
manufacturer may write the idler identification information into the memory 128 as a
manufacturing step. Information that the manufacturer may write include: part number;
software version; manufacture date, and batch identification.
[0073]      In another example, a worker installing the idler 10 may write the location of
the idler into the idler memory 128 using the RFID scanner. Information that workers
may write into or read from the RFID may include: conveyor identification; idler frame
identification; Idler frame position identification; installation date; installers name; site
information; and other general text information.
[0074]      The idler 10 has a RFID aerial 214 that in this embodiment is in the form of an
external RFID aerial. The signal from an internal RFID aerial may be impeded by the
idler shell 16 which comprises metal.         Embodiments of the idler 10 with a radio
transparent shell, for example a polymer shell, may have an internal RFID aerial
mounted to the PCB 118, for example.
[0075]      The RFID device 127 is in the form of a dual RFID EEPROM (referred to as a
"Dual RFID"). The Dual RFID is a memory that emulates a passive RFID tag and which
can be read or written to by an RFID scanner (i.e. a hand held device). Since the Dual
RFID is a passive memory it can be powered directly from the RFID scanner and
programmed whilst the idler is stationary (i.e. not generating power).
[0076]      The Dual RFID memory 128 is also connected to the information generator 20.
The Information generator is able to read the memory when the rotor is rotating (i.e.
generating power).      The Dual RFID allows the manufacturer to conveniently tag and
identify an idler without needing to power up the Smart-Idler (Le. rotating the idler). The
Dual RFID allows the installers to conveniently tag, identify and configure a Smart-Idler
without needing the conveyor to be running. This may improve safety as attempting to
configure Idlers whilst a conveyor is operational, is a safety hazard for installation
personnel.
[0077]      The Dual RFID integrated circuit 127 is located on the PCB 118. Accordingly,
the Dual RFID is stationary with respect to the rotating idler shell which facilitates routing
of the RFID antenna. The RFID loop antenna is accessible via the outside the idler near

                                               22
an end cap 230.
[0078]      The loop antenna is over molded with rubber or plastic so that it is durable and
protected from the elements.       The over mold also encapsulates wires connecting the
external antenna to the RFID EPPOM integrated circuit. The over mould passes under
the bearing via a slot in the shaft.
[0079]      Alternatively, rather than using the radio network to relay data entered via
RFID, it is possible to use the RFID scanner to pass configuration information to the
Gateway.      In this case, the RFID scanner keeps a copy of configuration data in a
database within the scanner, which is subsequently transferred from the RFID scanner to
the Gateway either by a direct connection or via an interconnected processor. This
method may require the operator to transfer the database file to the gateway, so may be
more manual and prone to human error. However, in this case, a Dual RFID EEPROM
is not required and simple passive tag attached or embedded within the idler 10 may be
used. A simple passive tag is less expensive from a parts cost perspective that a Dual
RFID EEPROM.         For this method to work it is necessary that the unique identification
information contained within the passive tag to be associated with a unique radio
address within the idler memory 128 (which is in this embodiments not associated with
RFID 127).      This can be achieved by programming the memory 128 with the tag
identification information during manufacture and using this tag identification as a radio
ID. Alternatively, it is also possible to store a radio identification within the passive tag.
In either case, a number that represents the radio identification may be read from the
tag.
[0080]      The radio identification may be read by the installer using the RFID scanner
during installation.    This radio identification and along with location information (e.g.
conveyor identification information, idler frame identification information and location-on
idler-frame identification information) are transferred via the RFID scanner to the
gateway 40.      The gateway 40 in turn uses the radio address to program each idler
processor with its location information which in turn is used to generate a logical network
address.
[0081]      Figure 12 shows a diagram of an embodiment of the gateway 40. Figure 13

                                              23
shows a schematic block diagram of the gateway 40 of figure 12. The gateway 40 has a
circuit board (not shown) mounted within a DIN rail mountable enclosure 131. The circuit
board incorporates a digital radio 141 of a radio mesh network interface, controller 144,
memory 143, user interface 142, communications interface 145, and power supply 14.
The gateway power supply 146 accepts DC power generated from an external mains
supply (not shown) and generates voltage rails suitable for powering the gateway
circuits.  The memory 143 is used to store network configuration parameters, data
received from the idler monitoring module and other system information. The memory
may be battery backed so that its content are preserved during system power failures.
The user interface 144 consists of various indicators 132 and a push button 133. The
indicators 132 are used to communicate the gateway's communications and operating
status. A button 133 is used to initiate automatic discovery and configuration of the radio
mesh network. Alternatively, the gateway may be in the form of a gateway peripheral of
a computer.
 [0082]    In the illustrated embodiment, the gateway 40 acts as the radio network master
and manages the radio network configuration.          In this embodiment, the network is a
ZIGBEE network having a frequency of 2.4 GHz, although generally any suitable network
may be used, for example WI-FI or a proprietary network standard. The gateway has a
ZIGBEE master module, and the network interface 38 of the idler 10 may be a ZIGBEE
module.    The network 36 forms a structure with the gateway 40 as the root the idler
monitoring modules may act as repeaters along each link of the network allowing the
gateway 40 to communicate with idler monitoring modules that are outside its radio
range. The radio network is automatically configured and structured by pressing a button
133 on the gateway 40 or at the processor 42. The gateway 40 automatically maintains
the network structure in such a way as to control the quality of the radio links in the
network.     The network may exhibit self-healing properties and automatically uses
alternate routes in the event that an idler failure or a low radio link quality due to high bit
error rates or low radio signal strength.
 [0083]    In the present embodiment, the idler 10 has a mode of operation in which the
idler information is sent only when an idler information condition is satisfied.           The
sending of the idler information may be initiated by the idler on confirmation that the idler
information condition is satisfied. The idler information may, consequently, he sent only

                                             24
when needed, decreasing power requirements and radio mesh network load.                Idler
information conditions may include at least one of the number of rotations condition, the
rotation velocity condition, the temperature condition, and the vibration condition.
[0084]     In the present but not all embodiments, the gateway 40 poles the idlers for the
idler information via the network. The idler 10 has another mode in which it sends the
idler information when poled. While in the present embodiment, the gateway sends the
idler information to the processor 40 for processing, in an alternative embodiment the
gateway 40 may process the idler information to determine if sensor readings have
violated programmed thresholds. Thresholds include minimum and maximum values, or
minimum or maximum rates of change. When a threshold is violated, a logical alarm
condition is generated.
[0085]     The gateway 40 also maintains statistics on each idler, including its serial
number, network address, age, operating hours, number of rotations, the number of
alarm, events, and radio link quality.
[0086]     The    gateway    40   may   be in   communication     with   processor   42 via
communications interface 45.         It also accepts configuration commands from the
processor 40. The processor 42 is used to display data obtained from the gateway 40
and to configure the system. In other embodiments, the generation of alarm conditions,
and the managing of statistics may be performed in the processor, or an external PLC
(not shown) for example.
[0087]     The communications interface 145 of the gateway 40 includes any one or a
combination of RS485, RS422, RS-232, ModBus, USB and Ethernet interfaces. In this
embodiment, the gateway is in communication with the processor 42 by a MOD BUS
interface. The processor has PLC emulation software for communicating with gateway
40 and has Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) software for acquiring
information about the status of the idlers which are remote from the processor.
Alternatively, the processor may be a hardware implementation of SCADA, for example a
programmable logic controller (PLC) implementation.
[0088]     The SCADA implementations may provide alarm handling.             The processor

                                              25
monitors whether certain alarm conditions are satisfied, to determine when an alarm
event has occurred. Once an alarm event has been detected, one or more actions may
be taken (such as the activation of one or more alarm indicators, and perhaps the
generation of email or text messages so that management or a remote SCADA users are
infomled), SCADA user may have to acknowledge the alarm event. This may deactivate
some alarm indicators, whereas other indicators remain active until the alarm conditions
are cleared. Examples of alarm indicators include a siren, a pop-up box on a screen, or
a coloured or flashing area on a screen (that may act in a similar way to the "fuel tank
empty" light in a car). The role of the alarm indicator is generally to draw the user's
attention to the part of the system 'in alarm' so that appropriate action can be taken.
[0089]     The SCADA may be also in communication with the conveyor system and
cause the conveyor system to stop if a faulty idler is detected.
[0090]     Alternatively, the processor may provide a HTML interface for remote
monitoring, wherein web pages displaying idler information and alarms are served to a
personal computer, for example, accessible by the user.
[0091]     The idler information may be compared against at least one threshold value.
Threshold values may include minimum and .maximum values, or minimum or maximum
rates of change. In different embodiments of the system, the comparison of measured
data against a threshold value may occur within the idler, the gateway, the processor. In
the present embodiment, thresholds levels are configurable and programmed by the user
at the processor. When a measured parameter violates a programmed threshold for a
programmable time, an alarm condition may be generated in the system.             This alarm
condition may be displayed by the processor, for example.               The alarm for each
parameter may be globally enabled, disabled or cleared at the processor.
[0092]     Any idler information or derived status or alarm conditions available in the
system may be collected by the Gateway and transmitted to the processor.
[0093]     Now that embodiments have been described, it will be apparent that the some
embodiments may provide some of the following advantages:

                                             26
       *    The idler information may be used to determine when to replace an idler.
            The quantity of rotations may be indicative of an effective age of the idler.
            Because the quantity of rotations is known, the replacement of an idler too
            early or too late may be avoided, which may result in savings while
            maintaining the risk of idler failure at an acceptable level. An idler for which
            the idler information indicates that the rotational velocity is zero may have
            failed.
       *    The ability to measure not only temperature but also vibration, acoustic
            level, rotations and rotational speed, and to use this information individually
            or in combination in order to more accurately identify a failing or failed idler.
       *    The ability to independently measure a temperature of within the idler using
            a single circuit.   By independently monitoring the temperature of each
            bearing within the idler the system may be able to more accurately detect
            increases in temperature. Using a single circuit may also lower cost.
       *    The ability to power the electronics embedded within the idler from the
            rotation of the roller or idler without the use of a battery and to
            communicate wirelessly. There may be no requirement for special wiring of
            the conveyor, simplifying installation.
       *    The use of capacitance to store energy for short periods rather than
            disposable or rechargeable batteries. By not using a battery, the system is
            able to operate safely at elevated temperatures for extended periods up to
            10 years.
       *    The inclusion of an RFID memory within each roller or idler may allow the
            reading and programming of identification, location and configuration
            information within the roller or idler. The information may be automatically
            transmitted to the processor via the radio network. This may simplify and
            automate the identification of idlers.
[0094]   Variations and/or modifications may be made to the embodiments described

                                               27
without departing from the spirit or ambit of the invention. The present embodiments are,
therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.
[0095]      Prior art, if any, described herein is not to be taken as an admission that the
prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction.
[0096]      In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as .'comprises" or "'comprising" is
used in an inclusive sense, that is to specify the presence of the stated features but not
to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
invention.

                                                28
Claims
1.     An idler comprising:
       a rotor configured to rotate around an axis and comprising an outer bearing
surface; and
       an information generator configured to generate idler information comprising
information about the idler.
2.     An idler defined by claim 1 wherein the idler information comprises rotation
information that comprises information about the rotation of the rotor around the axis.
3.      An idler defined by claim 2 wherein the rotation information comprises rotation
number information comprising information about a number of rotations of the rotor
around the axis.
4.      An idler defined by claim 3 wherein the rotation number information indicates that
the number of rotations of the rotor around the axis satisfies a number of rotations
condition.
5.      An idler defined by claim 4 wherein the number of rotations condition comprises a
condition that the number of rotations one of equals a threshold number of rotations and
exceeds the threshold number of rotations.
6.      An idler defined by any one of the claims 3 to 5 wherein the rotation number
information indicates the number of rotations of the rotor.
7.      An idler defined by any one of the claims 2 to 6 wherein the rotation information
comprises rotational velocity information about a rotational velocity of the rotor.
8.      An idler defined by claim 7 wherein the rotational velocity information indicates
that the rotational velocity of the rotor satisfies a rotational velocity condition.

                                                29
9.      An idler defined by claim 8 wherein the rotation velocity condition comprises a
condition that the rotational velocity of the rotor is one of equal to and less than a
rotational velocity threshold.
10.     An idler defined by claim 8 wherein the rotation velocity condition comprises that
the rotational velocity of the rotor is zero.
11.     An idler defined by claim 8 wherein the rotation velocity condition comprises that
the rotational velocity of the rotor is irregular.
12.     An idler defined by any one of the claims 7 to 9 wherein the rotational velocity
information indicates the rotational velocity of the rotor.
13.     An idler defined by any one of the claims 2 to 12 comprising at least one of a hall
effect sensor, optical encoder, a           proximity switch, a contact switch,      a rotary
potentiometer and a rotary variable differential transformer in communication with the
information generator for the generation of the rotation information.
14.     An idler defined by any one of the claims 2 to 13 comprising an electrical
generator arranged to generate electricity from the rotation of the rotor around the axis.
15.     An idler defined claim 14 comprising a power storage device in electrical
communication with the electrical generator for storing the electricity
16.     An idler defined by claim 15 wherein the power storage device comprises a
capacitor.
 17.    An idler defined by any one of the claims 14 to 16 wherein the electricity when so
generated is periodic.
 18.    An idler defined by any one of the claims 14 to 17 comprising a stator, wherein the
electrical generator comprises a magnet and electrical circuitry, one of the magnet and
the electrical circuitry is attached to the rotor and the other of the magnet and the
electrical circuitry is attached to the stator, and the magnet and the electrical circuitry are

                                             30
cooperatively arranged to generate the electricity within the electrical circuitry when the
rotor rotates around the axis.
19.     An idler defined by claim 18 comprising a circuit board disposed around the stator
and comprising the electrical circuitry, wherein the circuit board is disposed within an
enclosure comprising the magnet, and the circuit board is fixed to the rotor.
20.     An idler defined by claim 19 wherein the enclosure comprises a magnetic circuit
having the at least one magnet, the magnetic circuit being configured to concentrate the
at least one magnet's magnetic field within the electrical circuitry.
21.     An idler defined by any one of the claim 14 to 20 wherein the information
generator is in electrical communication with the electrical generator.
22.     An idler defined by any one of the claims 14 to 21 wherein the information
generator is configured to analyse the electricity for the generation of the rotation
information.
23.     An idler defined by claim 22 wherein the information generator comprises an
electricity analyser configured to analyse the electricity for the generation of the rotation
information.
24.     An idler defined by either one of claim 22 and claim 23 wherein the information
generator is configured to detect at least one of a plurality of power peaks in the
electricity and a plurality of zero power crossings in the electricity for generation of the
rotation information.
25.     An idler defined by either one of claim 22 and claim 23 wherein the information
generator is configured to generate sample information by temporally sampling the
electricity and using the sample information to compute at least one of the plurality of
power peaks in the electricity and the plurality of zero power crossings in the electricity.
26.     An idler defined by any one of the preceding claims wherein the idler information
comprises temperature information about a temperature.

                                               31
27.     An idler defined by claim 26 wherein the temperature. Information indicates that
the temperature satisfies a temperature condition.
28.     An idler defined by claim 27 wherein the temperature condition comprises a
condition that the temperature at least one of equals and exceeds a threshold
temperature.
29.     An idler defined by claim 28 wherein the temperature condition comprises a
condition that that temperature one of equals and exceeds the threshold temperature for
period that one of equals and exceeds a period value.
30.     An idler defined by any one of claim 26 to 29 wherein the temperature information
is indicative of the temperature.
31.     An idler defined by any one of the claims 26 to 30 wherein the temperature is an
average of a plurality of temporally spaced apart temperature measurements.
32.     An idler defined by any one of the claims 26 to 31 comprising a temperature
sensor in communication with the information generator.
33.     An idler defined by claim 32 wherein the temperature sensor is in thermal
communication with an idler bearing.
34.     An idler defined by either one of claim 32 and claim 33 wherein the temperature
sensor is disposed within an idler bearing aperture.
35.     An idler defined by any one of the preceding claims wherein the idler information
indicative of information about the idler comprises idler vibration information about a
vibration generated by the idler.
36.     An idler defined by claim 35 wherein the idler vibration information indicates that
the idler vibration satisfies a vibration condition.
37.     An idler defined by claim 36 wherein the vibration condition comprises a condition

                                             32
that a characteristic of the vibration at least one of equals and exceeds a vibration
characteristic value.
38.     An idler defined by any one of the claims 35 to 37 wherein the vibration condition
comprises a condition that the vibration comprises at least one frequency component
characteristic of a defective idler.
39.     An idler defined by any one of the claims 35 to 38 comprising a vibration sensor
configured to generate a vibration signal.
40.     An idler defined by claim 39 wherein the information generator has a frequency
filter selected to pass a frequency component of the vibration signal characteristic of a
defective idler.
41.     An idler defined by claim 40 wherein the frequency filter comprises a bandpass
filter.
42      An idler defined by claim 41 wherein the bandpass filter comprises at least one of
a hardware implemented filter, a 2nd order active operation amplifier bandpass filter, a
low pass active operational amplifier bandpass filter, a high pass active operational
amplifier bandpass filter, an inductor-capacitor (LC) passive bandpass filter, a finite
impulse response (FIR) filter, an infinite impulse response (IIR) filter, and a fast Fourier
transform (FFT) filter.
43.     An idler defined by any one of the claims 39 to 42 wherein the vibration sensor
comprises a microphone.
44.     An idler defined by any one of the claims 39 to 43 wherein the vibration sensor
comprises at least one of an accelerometer, a displacement sensor, and a piezoelectric
vibration sensor.
45.     An idler defined by any one of the preceding claims comprising memory in
communication with the information generator, the memory having idler identification
information.

                                               33
46.     An idler defined by the claim 45 wherein the idler information indicative of
information about the idler comprises the idler identification information.
47.     An idler defined by either one of claim 45 and claim 46 wherein the memory has
location information indicative of the location of the idler.
48.     An idler defined by any one of the claims 45 to 47 comprising a Radio Frequency
Identification (RFID) device comprising the memory.
49.     An idler defined by claim 48 wherein the RFID device is configured for the
memory to be written by a RFID scanner.
50.     An idler defined by either one of claim 48 and claim 49 wherein the RFID device is
configured for the memory to be read by the RFID scanner.
51.     An idler defined by any one of the claims 1 to 44 comprising a Radio Frequency
Identification (RFID) device comprising memory and configured for the identification
memory to be written to by a RFID scanner and read by the RFID scanner.
52.     An idler defined by claim 51 wherein the memory has location information
indicative of the location of the idler on a conveyor.
53.     An idler defined by any one of the preceding claims comprising a radio transmitter
in communication with the information generator and arranged to send a radio signal
carrying the idler information.
54.     An idler defined by any one of the preceding claims comprising a network
interface configured to send the idler information via a network.
55.     An idler defined by claim 54 wherein the network interface is configured to send a
radio signal carrying the idler information via a radio network.
56.     An idler defined by claim 55 wherein the network interface comprises a radio
network interface configured to cooperate with a plurality of radio network interfaces of a

                                                 34
plurality of idlers to form at least part of the radio network.
57.     An idler defined by claim 56 wherein the network interface comprises a radio
network interface configured to cooperate with the plurality of radio network interfaces of
a plurality of idlers and a network gateway to form the radio network.
58.     An idler defined by any one of the claims 53, and 55 to 57 comprising an external
aerial and a shaft on which is mounted a rotary bearing coupled to the rotor, wherein the
shaft is configured to form a passageway between the shaft and the bearing, the rotor
comprises an idler shell impenetrable by the radio signal, and an external aerial is in
communication with an aerial lead that passes through the passage.
59.     An idler defined by claim 58 wherein shaft has a slotted portion defining a slot, the
rotary bearing being mounted on the slotted pmlion, and the aerial lead is disposed in
the slot.
60.     An idler defined by 59 wherein the slot comprises a longitudinal slot.
61.     An idler defined by any one of the claims 58 to 60 wherein the idler shell is
impermeable to the radio signal.
62.     An idler comprising:
        a shaft on which is mounted a rotary bearing coupled to an idler shell;
        an information generator disposed within an interior of the idler shell and
configured to generate idler information comprising information about the idler; and
        a radio transmitter in communication with the information generator for sending a
radio signal carrying the idler information, and comprising an external aerial in
communication with an aerial lead that passes from within the interior of the idler shell to
an exterior of the idler shell via a passageway located between the shaft and the rotary
bearing.

                                                 35
63.     An idler defined by claim 62 comprising a temperature sensor in communication
with the information generator and disposed within the passageway.
64.     An idler defined by claim 63 wherein the temperature sensor is in thermal
communication with a bearing.
65.     An idler defined by any one of claim 62 to 64 wherein a seal is disposed in the
passageway.
66.     A conveyor system comprising:
        a plurality of idlers defined by any one of the claims 1 to 61, the plurality of idlers
comprising a plurality of network interfaces configured to cooperate to form at least part
of a radio network for communication of idler information sent by the plurality of idlers.
67.     A conveyor system defined by claim 66 wherein the plurality of network interfaces
are configured to cooperate with each other and a network gateway to form the radio
network for communication of the idler information.
68.     A conveyor system defined by either one of claim 66 and claim 67 and comprising
a processing system configured to receive idler information sent by one of the plurality of
idlers and in response present on an electronic display the identity of the one of the
plurality of idlers that sent the idler information.
69.     A conveyor system defined by claim 68 wherein the idler information comprises
idler location information and the processing system is configured to present on the
electronic display the location of one of the plurality of idlers that sent the idler
information.
70.     A conveyor system defined by claim 68 wherein the location information is stored
in a RFID device of the one of the plurality of idlers that send the idler information.

                                               36
71.     A method for monitoring a plurality of idlers, the method comprising the steps of:
        forming at least part of a radio network with a plurality of network interfaces of the
plurality of idlers; and
        one of the plurality of idlers sending idler information via the radio network;
wherein each of the plurality of idlers is defined by any one of the claims 1 to 61.
72.     A method defined by claim 71 comprising the step of forming the radio network
with the plurality of network interfaces of the plurality of idlers and a network gateway.
73.     A method defined by either one of claim 71 and claim 72 comprising the steps of:
        a processor receiving the idler information sent by the one of the plurality of
processors; and
        displaying of an electronic display the identity of the one of the plurality of idlers
that sent the idler information.
74.     A method defined by claim 73 wherein the idler information comprises idler
location information and the method comprises the step of providing the location of the
one of the plurality of idlers.
75.     A method defined by any one of the claims 71 to 74 wherein the plurality of idlers
are each defined by any one of the clams 1 to 61.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
