ABSTRACT
In embodiments, apparatuses, methods, and storage media may be described for
distinguishing, by a user equipment (UE), a reference signal (RS) transmitted by a cell
that may have a same identifier (ID) as another cell in a network. In embodiments, a
muting pattern, a time offset, or a virtual cell identifier (VCID) may be used to
generate an RS sequence or RS resource allocation.
35613 14vl

       0 01
               -0~    En
                            0
            cE                             if~
                 ~10
                     00
                   DE
                        cu 0
    CD)
(D_                           _ _ _ __ _ _  _  _ _
      Ir01

               REFERENCE SIGNAL ENHANCEMENT FOR SHARED CELL
                                Cross Reference to Related Application
           This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 14/555,259, filed
 5 November 26, 2014, entitled "REFERENCE SIGNAL ENHANCEMENT FOR SHARED
   CELL," which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/985,355, filed
   April 28, 2014, entitled "Reference Signal Enhancement for Shared Cell ID Scenario," and
   U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/968,269, filed March 20, 2014, entitled
   "OTDOA Based Positioning Enhancement," the entire disclosures of which are hereby
10 incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                                 Field
           Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to the technical field of
   reference signal identification in cellular radio networks.
                                            Background
15         The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally
   presenting the context of the disclosure. Work of the presently named inventors, to the
   extent it is described in this background section, as well as aspects of the description that
   may not otherwise qualify as prior art at the time of filing, are neither expressly nor
   impliedly admitted as prior art against the present disclosure. Unless otherwise indicated
20 herein, the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in the present
   disclosure and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.
           In some networks, observed time difference of arrival (OTDOA) may be used to
   locate the physical position of a user equipment (UE). Specifically, a reference signal (RS)
   such as a positioning reference signal (PRS) may be transmitted from multiple transmit
25 stations (sometimes also referred to as transmit points (TPs)), and the ULE may measure a
   reference signal time difference (RSTD) for each received RS. The transmit stations may
   be, for example, access points, evolved NodeBs (eNBs), remote radio heads (RRHs), or
   some other type of base station for a network (collectively referred to herein as "transmit
   stations").
30         In some cases, the transmit stations may be transmit stations of a coordinated
   multiple point (CoMP) network scenario-4. In those cases, the transmit stations may have
   identical physical cell identifiers (PCIDs). In such a scenario, the RS sequence or resource
   element (RE) allocation of the RSs of each transmit station may be identical because the
   RS sequence and RE mapping may be initialized by the identical PCIDs, which may result
                                                 -1-

   in identical RSs. Additionally, the REs on which the RSs are transmitted may be identical
   because the resource element allocation may also be based on the identical PCIDs.
   Because the transmitted RSs from the multiple transmit stations are identical, and
   transmitted on identical REs, the received signal at the UE may appear as single frequency
 5 network (SFN) combined waveforms which may be indistinguishable from one another.
   Therefore, the UE may not be able to measure RSTD for each cell.
            Similarly, primary synchronization signals (PSSs), secondary synchronization
   signals (SSSs), cell specific reference signals (CRSs), and channel state information
   reference signals (CSI-RSs) (collectively referred to herein as discovery reference signals
10 (DRSs)) from the different TPs may also be indistinguishable from one another because
   the DRSs may also be based on the identical PCID used by each transmit station. As used
   herein, the various reference signals such as PRS, PSS, SSS, CRS, CSI-RS, DRS, etc., will
   be generically referred to as "RSs."
                                  Brief Description of the Drawings
15          Embodiments will be readily understood by the following detailed description in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings. To facilitate this description, like reference
   numerals designate like structural elements. Embodiments are illustrated by way of
   example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings.
            Figure 1 schematically illustrates a high-level example of a network that includes a
20 UE and an eNB, in accordance with various embodiments.
            Figure 2 schematically illustrates a high-level example of a network that includes a
   plurality of cells, in accordance with various embodiments.
            Figure 3 illustrates an example of RS timing in a network such as the network of
   Figure 2, in accordance with various embodiments.
25          Figure 4 illustrates an example of RS muting in a network such as the network of
   Figure 2, in accordance with various embodiments.
            Figure 5 illustrates an example process that may be performed by a transmit station
   of a network such as the network of Figure 2, in accordance with various embodiments.
            Figure 6 illustrates an example process that may be performed by a UE of a
30 network such as the network of Figure 2, in accordance with various embodiments.
            Figure 7 illustrates an example process that may be performed by a transmit station
   of a network such as the network of Figure 2, in accordance with various embodiments.
            Figure 8 illustrates an example process that may be performed by a UE of a
   network such as the network of Figure 2, in accordance with various embodiments.
                                                 -2-

           Figure 9 illustrates an example process that may be performed by a transmit station
   of a network such as the network of Figure 2, in accordance with various embodiments.
           Figure 10 illustrates an example process that may be performed by a UE of a
   network such as the network of Figure 2, in accordance with various embodiments.
 5         Figure 11 schematically illustrates an example system that may be used to practice
   various embodiments described herein.
                                       Detailed Description
           In embodiments, apparatuses, methods, and storage media may be described for
   distinguishing, by a UE, an RS such as a PRS or a DRS transmitted by a cell that may
10 have a same ID, and specifically the same PCID, as another cell in a network. In
   embodiments, a muting pattern, a time offset, or a virtual cell identifier (VCID) may be
   used to generate an RS sequence or RS resource allocation. In embodiments, the UE may
   receive the RS and associate it with one or more of the time offset, the muting pattern, or
   the VCID. The UE may also measure a parameter of the RS such as the RSTD, a radio
15 resource management (RRM) measurement, or some other measurement that may be used
   for calculating a physical location of the UE. The UE may then report the measurement
   and an indication of the VCID, the muting pattern, and/or the time offset to a serving cell
   for RRM measurement, or to a serving mobile location center (SMLC) to calculate an
   OTDOA parameter related to the UE.
20         In the following detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying
   drawings which form a part hereof wherein like numerals designate like parts throughout,
   and in which is shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to
   be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes
   may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore, the
25 following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense.
           Various operations may be described as multiple discrete actions or operations in
   turn, in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the claimed subject matter.
   However, the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these
   operations are necessarily order dependent. In particular, these operations may not be
30 performed in the order of presentation. Operations described may be performed in a
   different order than the described embodiment. Various additional operations may be
   performed and/or described operations may be omitted in additional embodiments.
                                                 -3-

            For the purposes of the present disclosure, the phrase "A and/or B" means (A), (B),
   or (A and B). For the purposes of the present disclosure, the phrase "A, B, and/or C"
   means (A), (B), (C), (A and B), (A and C), (B and C), or (A, B and C).
            The description may use the phrases "in an embodiment," or "in embodiments,"
 5 which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore,
   the terms "comprising," "including," "having," and the like, as used with respect to
   embodiments of the present disclosure, are synonymous.
           As discussed herein, the term "module" may be used to refer to one or more
   physical or logical components or elements of a system. In some embodiments a module
10 may be a distinct circuit, while in other embodiments a module may include a plurality of
   circuits.
            Figure   1 schematically illustrates a wireless communication        network    100
   (hereinafter "network 100") in accordance with various embodiments. The network 100
   may include a UE 110 that is communicatively coupled with transmit station 105. In
15 embodiments, the network 100 may be a third generation partnership project (3GPP) Long
   Term Evolution (LTE), LTE Advanced (LTE-A) and/or LTE-Unlicensed (LTE-U)
   network. In other embodiments, the network 100 may be some other type of wireless
   communication network.
           As shown in Figure 1, the UE 110 may include a transceiver module 130, which
20 may also be referred to as a multi-mode transceiver chip. The transceiver module 130 may
   be configured to transmit and receive signals using one or more protocols such as LTE,
   LTE-A, and/or LTE-U protocols. Specifically, the transceiver module 130 may be coupled
   with one or more of a plurality of antennas 125 of the UE 110 for communicating
   wirelessly with other components of the network 100, e.g., transmit station 105 or another
25 UE. The antennas 125 may be powered by a power amplifier 135 which may be a
   component of the transceiver module 130 as shown in Figure 1, or separate from but
   coupled with the transceiver module 130. In one embodiment, the power amplifier 135
   may provide the power for all transmissions on the antennas 125. In other embodiments,
   there may be multiple power amplifiers on the UE 110. The use of multiple antennas 125
30 may allow for the UE 110 to use transmit diversity techniques such as spatial orthogonal
   resource transmit diversity (SORTD), multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO), or full
   dimension MIMO (FD-MIMO).
            In certain embodiments the transceiver module 130 may include a communication
   module 137, which may be referred to as a baseband module, which may contain both
                                                -4-

   transmit circuitry 140 configured to cause the antennas 125 to transmit one or more signals
   from the UE 110, and receive circuitry 145 configured to process signals received by the
   antennas 125. In other embodiments, the communication module 137 may be implemented
   in separate chips or modules, for example, one chip including the receive circuitry 145 and
 5 another chip including the transmit circuitry 140. In some embodiments, the transmitted or
   received signals may be cellular signals transmitted to or received from transmit station
    105. In some embodiments, the transceiver module 130 may include or be coupled with
   RS measurement circuitry 120 to measure one or more parameters or characteristics of a
   received RS, as described in further detail below. The RS measurement circuitry 120 may
10 be further to associate the received RS with a transmit station and generate a measurement
   report related to the received RS.
            Similar to the UE 110, the transmit station 105 may include a transceiver module
    150. The transceiver module 150 may be further coupled with one or more of a plurality of
   antennas 175 of the transmit station 105 for communicating wirelessly with other
15 components of the network 100, e.g., UE 110. The antennas 175 may be powered by a
   power amplifier 160 which may be a component of the transceiver module 150, as shown
   in Figure 1, or may be a separate component of the transmit station 105. In one
   embodiment, the power amplifier 160 may provide the power for all transmissions on the
   antennas 175. In other embodiments, there may be multiple power amplifiers on the
20 transmit station 105. The use of multiple antennas 175 may allow for the transmit station
    105 to use transmit diversity techniques such as SORTD, MIMO, or FD-MIMO. In certain
   embodiments the transceiver module 150 may contain both transmit circuitry 165
   configured to cause the antennas 175 to transmit one or more signals from the transmit
   station 105, and receive circuitry 170 to process signals received by the antennas 175. In
25 other embodiments, the transceiver module 150 may be replaced by transmit circuitry 165
   and receive circuitry 170 which are separate from one another (not shown). In some
   embodiments,      though   not shown,     the transceiver   module   150   may   include   a
   communication module such as communication module 137 that includes the receive
   circuitry 170 and the transmit circuitry 165. In some embodiments, the transmit station
30  105 may include RS circuitry 115, which may be configured to generate an RS based on
   one or more code, time, or muting related parameters as described in further detail below.
            Figure 2 schematically illustrates a high-level example of a network 200 that may
   include several cells such as cells 210a, 210b, 210c, 210d, 210e, and 210f (collectively
   referred to as cells 210). Each cell 210 may include a transmit station such as transmit
                                                 -5-

   stations 205a, 205b, 205c, 205d, 205e, and 205f (collectively referred to as transmit
   stations 205). The transmit stations 205 may be similar to transmit station 105 of Figure 1.
   Each transmit station 205 may be configured to send or receive signals to or from UEs in
   the respective cell 210 of the transmit station 205. The network 200 may further include a
 5 cell 225 with an eNB 220 configured to send or receive signals to or from UEs in the cell
   225. The eNB 220 may also be similar to transmit station 105 of Figure 1. The network
   may further include a UE 215 that may be similar to UE 110 of Figure 1. Specifically, the
   UE 215 may be configured to send and/or receive information to/from the eNB 220 and/or
   the transmit stations 205. As used herein, if transmit stations are generically described as
10 sending an RS, the description of the transmit stations may include the eNB 220.
           It will be understood that although the cells 210 and 225 are shown as having a
   generally hexagonal shape, such illustration is for the purposes of example only and the
   cells 210 and 225 may have a different shape in different embodiments. Additionally, in
   embodiments, the UE 215 may be in a different one of the cells of network 200 than cell
15 225. Additionally, in embodiments the different cells 210 or 225 of the network 200 may
   overlap one another.
           In embodiments, the eNB 220 may generally be configured to send and receive
   messages to a macrocell which may include cells 225 and 210. Cells 210 may be referred
   to as small cells and be considered a sub-cell of the macro cell. Each transmit station 205
20 may be responsible for sending or receiving information to or from a UE 215 in its
   respective small cell 210 as described above.
           In embodiments, the transmit stations 205 may be RRHs, and the network 200 may
   be configured as a coordinated multi point (CoMP) network scenario-4 wherein the carrier
   frequencies of eNB 220 and the transmit stations 205 are the same. Specifically, the eNB
25 220 may direct one or more of the transmit stations 205 to send the same signal to a UE
   215 to ensure that the UE 215 adequately and accurately receives the signal. In such
   networks, it may be desirable to employ one or more positioning techniques regarding the
   physical location of the UE 215. One such technique may be observed time difference of
   arrival (OTDOA) wherein the UE may measure one or more parameters of a received RS
30 from the eNB 220 and/or transmit stations 205. The UE 215 may then report the
   measurements to the eNB 220 which may then identify the physical location of the UE
   215 in the network.
           Specifically, the UE 215 may measure the time difference between specific
   position reference signals (PRSs) from multiple transmit stations 205 and/or the eNB 220.
                                                -6-

   The UE 215 may measure and report the reference signal time difference (RSTD) of each
   received PRS to the eNB 220 or an SMLC (not shown in Figure 2 for the sake of clarity).
   In other embodiments, the UE 215 may measure and report an RRM measurement related
   to a DRS. In some embodiments the SMLC may be an element of the eNB 220, while in
 5 other embodiments the SMLC may be separate from but communicatively coupled with
   the eNB 220 and/or UE 215. In some embodiments the UE 215 may transmit the
   measurements directly to the SMLC, while in other embodiments the UE 215 may
   transmit the measurements to the eNB 220 for forwarding to the SMLC. Based on the
   received measurements, the SMLC may calculate the geographic location of the UE 215
10 based on the RSTD reports and the knowledge of the geographic positions of the eNB 220
   and transmit stations 205.
            In embodiments, the UE may measure the RSTD of a PRS, a DRS, or some other
   RS as described above. In some embodiments, the PRS may be used because the PRS may
   be an RS that is specifically designed for accurate position measurements of the UE 215.
15 In some embodiments, the network 200 may be configured to measure on the order of tens
   of OTDOAs from multiple transmit stations 205 using PRSs, while the use of a DRS such
   as a CRS may result in a limitation regarding the number of OTDOAs that may be
   measured. Generally, a higher number of reported OTDOAs may result in a more accurate
   calculation of the UE's geographic position.
20          In some embodiments, an RS may be generated based on a scrambling seed.
   Specifically, a pseudo-random sequence generator may be initialized with cast = 210
    (7 - (n, + 1) + I + 1) - (2 - NDe" + 1) + 2 - NDe" + NcP   (hereinafter  referred   to   as
   equation 1). Specifically, n, may refer to a slot number within a radio frame in which the
   RS is to be transmitted. 1 may refer to the orthogonal frequency division multiplexing
25 (OFDM) symbol number within the slot on which the RS is to be transmitted. ND" may
   refer to an identifier (ID) of the cell such as cells 210.
            Additionally, allocation of REs used to transmit the RS may be based on the
   equation Vshift = Nflgmod6 (hereinafter referred to as equation 2) where         Vshift is a
   number of REs that an RS pattern is shifted in a resource block (RB). As can be seen, the
30 value NTIge" may be an important factor to specify both the RS sequence (based on cisi)
   and the RS RE allocation per cell (based on vshift).
            However, as noted above in a network such as network 200 that is configured to
   use CoMP network scenario-4 deployment such that each cell 210, and specifically each
                                                  -7-

   transmit station 205, has a same physical cell identifier (PCID), OTDOA calculations may
   be difficult to perform. This is because the value used for NID      may be the PCID of the
   various cells 210. However, if the cells 210 are assigned the same PCID, then the cells
   may transmit the same RS sequence using the same REs as one another. Because the RS
 5 sequences may be identical and using the same REs, the UE 215 may be unable to
   distinguish which RS was transmitted from which cell 210. Therefore, the UE may not be
   able to accurately measure and report RSTD, RRM, or other OTDOA measurements that
   may be used to identify the physical location of the UE 215 in the network 200.
   Specifically, with regard to PRS, the RSTD measurements of the PRS may become a
10 superposition of multi-path channels because the same PCID may be used for PRS
   sequence scrambling and RE mapping, and so the PRSs from different transmit stations
   205 may be indistinguishable from one another. RRM measurements of a DRS, and
   particularly a CRS, may experience the same superposition of the CRS or DRS because
   the same PCID is used to generate those RSs, and so the CRSs or DRS may be
15 indistinguishable from one another.
            In order to resolve the difficulty of the UE 215 in identifying RSs from same or
   similar cells 210, one or more approaches may be used. In one embodiment, the eNB 220
   and the transmit stations 205 may transmit the PRS or DRS in a frequency-division or a
   code-division manner. Alternatively, the eNB 220 may schedule PRS or DRS transmission
20 by assigning different time instances such as subframes or radio frames in which the
   transmit stations 205 are to transmit respective PRSs or DRSs. Specifically, if the PRSs or
   DRSs are transmitted in different time instances, then the UE 215 may be able to identify
   which RS came from which transmit station 205.
   Time Offset
25          In one embodiment, the PRSs or DRSs may be transmitted in a time-division
   manner. That is, the various RSs may be transmitted in different time instances from one
   or more different transmit stations 205 and/or the eNB 220. As used herein, the time offset
   will be generically referred to as a "time instance," but may refer to the OFDM symbol
   level, the slot level, the subframe level, the radio frame level, or according to some other
30 time-division of a radio transmission. If the RS transmission may be differentiated over
   different time instances, then it may be possible for the UE 215 to measure and distinguish
   measurements such as RSTD or RRM measurements based on the PRS or DRS,
   respectively, from different cells 210.
                                                 -8-

           Specifically, the UE 215 may receive or be pre-provisioned with one or more
   network-configured time-offset parameters as are described in greater detail below. The
   network-configured     time-offset parameters may relate to a time offset of an RS
   transmission such as a PRS or DRS transmission. Because the UE 215 may receive the
 5 network-configured time-offset parameter, the UE 215 may be able to identify which of
   the transmit stations 205 sent which RS, and calculate a measurement such as an RSTD or
   RRM measurement based on the identified transmit station 205. The UE 215 may then
   report a measurement of the RS transmission such as RRM measurement or an RSTD that
   may be used for calculating an OTDOA. In some embodiments, for example, when PRSs
10 are used for location determination, fields of an LTE positioning protocol (LPP) message
   may be used to provision the UE 215 with one or more of the network-configured time
   offset parameters. For example, the network-configured time-offset parameters may be
   included in a PRS-Info field for PRSs by LPP signaling, or some other field for DRSs or
   some other RS by RRC signaling.
15         Along with reporting the RSTD or RRM measurements to the eNB 220 and/or
   SMLC as described above, the UE 215 may report one or more network-configured time
   offset parameters related to the time offset, or an indication of which of the transmit
   stations 205 transmitted the RS. Specifically, the UE 215 may report an indication of a
   network-configured time-offset parameter such as a PRS or DRS configuration index,
20 which may be generally referred to as IPRS or IDRS, respectively. In embodiments, the
   IPRS may be referred to as a "prs-Configurationlndex" and may have a value between 0
   and 4095. A similar name or value may be used for the IDRS.
           In embodiments, the network-configured time-offset parameter may be or include a
   PRS or DRS periodicity, which may be generally referred to as TPRS or TDRS,
25 respectively, and may be included as an element of the configuration index described
   above. The network-configured time-offset parameter may additionally or alternatively be
   or include an indication of PRS or DRS subframe offset, which may be generally referred
   to as APRS or ADRS, respectively, which may also be an element of the configuration
   index described above. In embodiments, the PRS or DRS subframe offset may indicate a
30 number of subframes by which the PRS or DRS should be offset, and in other
   embodiments the parameter may be referred to as a PRS or DRS time instance offset and
   refer to a number of slots, OFDM symbols, subframes, or radio frames by which the PRS
   or DRS should be offset. In some embodiments TPRS, TDRS, APRS, or ADRS may be
   separate from the PRS or DRS configuration index. In some embodiments, the UE 215
                                               -9-

   may also report information regarding a network-configured time-offset parameter such as
   a muting pattern of the RS transmissions, as described in further detail below. In some
   embodiments, the UE 215 may report other information or parameters that may be used to
   measure RSTD, reference signal received quality (RSRQ), reference signal received
 5 power (RSRP), or some other parameter that may be used to measure or identify a
   parameter used for OTDOA measurements.
           In some embodiments, the network-configured time-offset parameters may include
   a value such as NPRS or NDRS, which may refer to a number of subframes in which the
   PRS or DRS should be repeated, respectively. Specifically, the NPRS may be referred to
10 as "numDL-Frames" and have a value between 1, 2, 4, or 6, and indicate that the PRS
   should be repeated that number of frames. A similar name or value may be used for DRS
   transmission.
           Figure 3 depicts an example of a subframe offset algorithm that may be used for
   transmitting RSs such as PRSs using the network-configured time-offset parameters
15 described above. Specifically, in Figure 3, the RSs may be transferred in a subframe of a
   radio frame such as SFn through SFn+7. As shown in Figure 3, a first transmit station (or
   group of transmit stations) may be assigned to the group designated as TPO group. The
   transmit stations in the TPO group may transmit an RS in the first four subframes of the
   radio frame, that is, SFn through SFn+3. This configuration may be designated by, for
20 example, an IPRS value of 0 and an NPRS value of 4, which may indicate that the TPO
   group is to use the configuration indicated by the value of 0 and repeat transmission of the
   RS (in this case the PRS) for 4 subframes.
           Transmit stations in the TP 1 group may then transmit an RS such as a PRS for two
   subframes starting at subframe SFn+4. This configuration may be designated by, for
25 example, an IPRS value of 4 and an NPRS value of 2, indicating that the TPO group is to
   use the configuration indicated by the value of 4 and repeat transmission of the RS (in this
   case the PRS) for 2 subframes. Next, transmit stations in the TP2 group may then transmit
   an RS such as a PRS for two subframes starting at subframe SFn+6. This configuration
   may be designated by, for example, an IPRS value of 6 and an NPRS value of 2,
30 indicating that the TPO group is to use the configuration indicated by the value of 6 and
   repeat transmission of the RS (in this case the PRS) for 2 subframes.
           As described above, the IPRS may be used to designate the number of subframes
   by which the RS transmission should be offset. However, in other embodiments the IPRS
   configuration index may designate a different value or affect the time offset of the RS
                                               - 10 -

   differently. In the embodiments described above, the PRS is used as an example, but in
   other embodiments similar parameters or time offsets may be used for the DRS.
   Additionally, in some embodiments the values used (0, 4, or 6) for the IPRS may be
   different than the example above, and similarly the values used (4 or 2) for the NPRS may
 5 be different than the example above.
           In some embodiments, the TPO, TP1, and/or TP2 group, or some other group of
   transmit stations, may include multiple transmit stations. For example, in some
   embodiments different transmit stations 205 may be identified as being in different
   clusters of the transmit stations 205. In some embodiments, the clusters may be based on
10 geographic criteria or some other criteria, and have different PCIDs than one another.
   Each of the groups (TPO, TPI, and TP2) may include a transmit station from each cluster
   of transmit stations 205.
   Muting Pattern
           In some embodiments, a muting pattern may be used for RS transmission.
15 Specifically, a series of time instances or subframes may be designated for RS
   transmission by one or more transmit stations such as transmit stations 205. In these
   embodiments, one transmit station (or group of transmit stations from different clusters)
   may transmit in one of the time instances, while the other transmit stations do not transmit
   a signal.
20         Figure 4 depicts an example of how a muting pattern may be used to transmit RSs
   in a network such as network 200. The example below will be described with respect to
   PRS, but in other embodiments a similar muting pattern may be used for DRS
   transmission or transmission of some other RS. Additionally, the example below will be
   described with respect to subframes that are designated for PRS transmission, however in
25 other embodiments a different time instance may be used, such as an OFDM symbol, a
   radio frame, or a time slot within a subframe. In embodiments, the muting pattern may be
   a network-configured parameter, which may be considered a network-configured time
   offset parameter, that is pre-provisioned in the various transmit stations or the UE 215, or
   included in a PRS-info message or some other network-provisioned message as described
30 above. In other embodiments, the muting pattern may be a different type of network
   configured parameter than a network-configured            time-offset parameter. In some
   embodiments, the muting pattern may be indicated in a prs-Mutinglnfo-r9 field, which
   may be a 2-bit string, a 4-bit string, an 8-bit string, a 16-bit string, or some other size of
   string.
                                               - 11 -

            In the embodiments depicted in Figure 4, each of the transmit stations TPO, TP 1,
   TP2, and TP3 may have the same PRS configuration, e.g., IPRS may be equal to 0 for
   TPO, TP 1, TP2, and TP3. The PRS configuration may indicate, for example, that the PRS
   transmission should have a PRS periodicity of 160 milliseconds (ms), and no PRS time
 5 instance offset. That is, TPRS may be equal to 160, and APRS may be equal to 0. In the
   embodiments of Figure 4, NPRS may be equal to 2, indicating that the PRS is to be
   transmitted in two concurrent subframes. As shown in Figure 4, eight subframes (number
    1 through 8) may be designated for RS transmission. In embodiments, one or more of the
   subframes may be concurrent, while in other embodiments the subframes may be
10 distributed differently than shown in Figure 4.
            In embodiments, the muting pattern for each transmit station 205 may be a
   network-configured parameter that is pre-provisioned in the various transmit stations or
   the UE 215, or included in a PRS-info message or some other network-provisioned
   message as described above. In some embodiments, the muting pattern may be indicated
15 in a prs-Mutinglnfo-r9 field, which may be a 2-bit string, a 4-bit string, an 8-bit string, a
    16-bit string, or some other size of string. As shown in Figure 4, the muting pattern for
   TPO may be "1 0 0 0," where the value of 1 indicates that the transmit station or stations
   associated with TPO are to transmit an RS in the first two subframes as shown. The muting
   pattern for TP1 may be "0 1 0 0," where the value of 1 indicates that the transmit station or
20 stations associated with TP 1 are to transmit an RS in the second two subframes. Similarly,
   the muting pattern for TP2 may be "0 0 1 0," and the muting pattern for TP3 may be "0 0
   0 1."
           Upon receipt of a PRS from one of the transmit stations 205, the UE 215 may
   identify the subframe in which the PRS was transmitted. The UE 215 may then identify,
25 based on the subframe, the muting pattern used to transmit the PRS. Based on the muting
   pattern, the UE 215 may identify which of the transmit stations 205 transmitted the PRS.
   The UE 215 may then perform an RSTD measurement and report both the RSTD
   measurement and the identity of the transmit station and/or the muting pattern used to the
   SMLC and/or the eNB 220. The SMLC and/or eNB 220 may then use the RSTD and the
30 muting pattern or transmit station identity to perform an OTDOA measurement and
   identify the location of the UE 215. In some embodiments, the UE 215 may report both
   the indication of the muting pattern and a PRS-ConfigurationIndex (IPRS) to the SMLC
   and/or eNB 220 so that a higher degree of freedom may be provided to the SMLC, which
   may result in increased scheduling flexibility.
                                               - 12 -

   VCID Solution
           As noted above, RSs such as the PRS and/or DRS may be initialized in legacy
   systems based on cinit, which in turn may be based on the parameter Ne" as shown in
   equation 1, above. As described above, NDel" may be equivalent to the PCID associated
 5 with the various cells 210, which may result in the RSs of the cells 210 being identical to
   one another such that the UE 215 may not be able to identify which RS came from which
   of the cells 210.
           In embodiments, the values of NDel" may be manipulated to generate unique RSs.
   Specifically, a cell 210 may utilize a VCID for RS scrambling and RE mapping that is
10 different than the PCID. For example, cell 210a may have a different VCID than cell
   210b, which may have a different VCID than cell 210c, etc. Specifically, in embodiments
   ND" in equations 1 or 2 may be replaced by a VCID that may be referred to as NejS or
   NIDns  for PRS or DRS generation, respectively. In other words, the values NJpe or NIDDRs
   may be used to generate RS sequences or RE resource mappings that may be different for
15 each cell 210.
           In some embodiments, the value for NDs may be in a range of 0-503 for legacy
   systems (e.g., 504 different PCIDs may be available in the legacy systems). Therefore, to
   generate scrambling sequences for a DRS that may be backward compatible, a value such
   as N ^X, which may be equal to 504, may be added to the NJDJs for a given cell. That is,
20 the cinit value for a given cell may be defined as ci,      = 210 - (7 - (ns + 1) + I + 1)
    (2 -(NRS + N/SAX ) + 1) + 2 -(NDRS + NSAX) + Nc          (hereinafter    referred  to    as
   equation 3.)
           In order to signal the VCID associated with a given cell 210, an LPP message as
   described above may deliver the VCID for both a reference cell and neighbor cells through
25 elements        such       as      "OTDOA-ReferenceCelllnfo"           and        "OTDOA
   NeighbourCelllnfoElement," respectively. Specifically, the OTDOA-Reference Cell Info
   may be defined in pseudo-code as:
   OTDOA-ReferenceCelllnfo ::= SEQUENCE{
30                 physCellID           INTEGER (0..503),
                   cellGlobalId         ECGI OPTIONAL,                 --Need ON
                          virtualCellID         INTEGER (0..503)       OPTIONAL
                                             - 13 -

            Similarly, the OTDOA-NeighbourCelllnfoElement may be defined in pseudo-code
   as:
   OTDOA- NeighbourCelllnfoElement::= SEQUENCE {
 5                 physCellID             INTEGER (0..503),
                    cellGlobalId          ECGI OPTIONAL,                --Need ON
                            virtualCellID          INTEGER (0..503)     OPTIONAL
            A UE such as UE 215 that receives an LPP message may identify whether the
10 virtualCellID element indicates a value to be used for the VCID and, if so, the UE 215
   may use the VCID as a basis for RS sequence generation and/or RS RE allocation.
            Alternatively, in some embodiments the Global Cell ID (designated as cellGlobalId
   in the examples above) may be used as a basis for RS sequence generation and/or RS RE
   allocation. Specifically, the Global Cell ID may be a value that is unique to each cell 210,
15 and which may have a larger value than the PCID or VCID discussed above. Therefore, in
   some embodiments equations 1 and 2 may be used to generate RS sequences and RE
   allocation mappings, as discussed above, but physCellID or NfD"e        may be set equal to
   mod(cellGlobalId, 504) for each cell 210.
            Figure 5 depicts an example process that may be used by a transmit station such as
20 one of transmit stations 205. Initially, the transmit station may identify at 500 a first time
   instance in which to transmit an RS. The time instance may be one of a plurality of time
   instances associated with RS transmission. The time instance may be identified based on a
   muting pattern related to the RS. In some embodiments, the RS may be a PRS, a DRS, or
   some other type of RS. The transmit station may transmit the RS in the identified time
25 instance at 505.
            The transmit station may then identify, based on the muting pattern, a second time
   instance from the plurality of time instances in which the transmit station should be muted
   at 510, and the transmit station may mute transmissions of the transmit station in the
   second time instance at 515.
30          Figure 6 depicts an example process that may be used by a UE such as UE 215.
   Initially, the UE 215 may receive an RS such as a PRS or a DRS in a time instance at 600.
   The UE 215 may then identify the muting configuration used to transmit the RS at 605.
   Based on the muting configuration, the UE 215 may optionally identify the cell that
                                                - 14 -

   transmitted the RS at 610. Because the UE 215 may know the time at which the RS was
   sent and the identity and/or the location of the cell that sent the transmission, the UE 215
   may then identify a measurement associated with the received RS at 615. In embodiments,
   the measurement may be an RSTD, an RRM measurement, or some other measurement.
 5 Finally, the UE 215 may transmit at 620 the RS measurement identified at 605 and an
   indication of the muting configuration and/or identification of the cell at 620.
           Figure 7 depicts an alternative example process that may be used by a transmit
   station such as one of transmit stations 205. In embodiments, the transmit station may
   identify a subframe in which to transmit an RS such as a PRS or a DRS based on an
10 indication of a time offset at 700. The indication of the time offset may include a
   configuration index, a periodicity indication, a number of subframes in which the RS is to
   be repeated, or some other parameter as described above. The transmit station may then
   transmit the RS in the identified subframe at 705.
           Figure 8 depicts an alternative example process that may be used by a UE such as
15 UE 215. In embodiments, the UE 215 may receive an RS from a cell such as one of cells
   210 at 800. In embodiments the received RS may be a PRS, a DRS, or some other RS as
   described above. The UE may then identify a time-offset parameter associated with the RS
   at 805, as described above. Specifically, the time-offset parameter may indicate a time
   offset associated with the RS, as described above. Based on the identified time-offset
20 parameter, the UE 215 may optionally identify the RS as associated with a particular one
   of the cells 210 at 810. The UE 215 may then identify an RS measurement related to the
   received RS at 815, as described above. Specifically, because the UE 215 may know the
   identity and/or geographic position of the cell that transmitted the RS, or the time of
   transmission of the RS, the RS measurement may include, for example, an RSTD
25 measurement, a RRM measurement, or some other measurement as described above. The
   UE 215 may then transmit the RS measurement identified at 805, the configuration index
   identified at 810, and the cell identity optionally identified at 815 at 820.
           Figure 9 depicts an alternative example process that may be used by a transmit
   station such as one of transmit stations 205. Specifically, the transmit station may generate
30 an RS such as a PRS, a DRS, or some other type of RS based on a VCID at 900. The
   transmit station may then transmit the generated RS at 905.
           Figure 10 depicts an alternative example process that may be used by a UE such as
   UE 215. Specifically, the UE 215 may receive an RS such as a PRS, a DRS, or some other
   type of RS, and identify the RS as an RS of a specific cell 210 of the network 200 based
                                                 - 15 -

   on the VCID used to generate the RS at 1000. Specifically, the UE 215 may receive the
   RS and an indication of the VCIDs that may be used by the network 200, as well as which
   cell is associated with which VCID. Alternatively, the UE 215 may be pre-provisioned
   with the various VCIDs and the association between the VCIDs and the UE 215. In
 5 embodiments, the UE 215 may be configured to generate an RS parameter such as the
   cinit or vshift parameters described above using the various VCIDs. If the UE 215 is able
   to generate an RS, or an RE mapping, that corresponds to the received RS using one of the
   VCIDs, then the UE 215 may be able to identify the cell that transmitted the RS.
            Because the UE 215 may know the identity and/or geographic location of the cell
10 that transmitted the RS, the UE 215 may then measure one or more signal characteristics
   of the RS such as the RSTD, the RRM, or some other characteristic at 1005, as described
   above. Finally, the UE 215 may transmit an indication of the cell that transmitted the RS
   and/or an indication of the VCID associated with the RS, as well as the measured signal
   characteristic, at 1010.
15          Embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented into a system using
   any suitable hardware and/or software to configure as desired. Figure 11 schematically
   illustrates an example system 1100 that may be used to practice various embodiments
   described herein. Figure 11 illustrates, for one embodiment, an example system 1100
   having one or more processor(s) 1105, system control module 1110 coupled to at least one
20 of the processor(s) 1105, system memory 1115 coupled to system control module 1110,
   non-volatile memory (NVM)/storage 1120 coupled to system control module 1110, and
   one or more communications interface(s) 1125 coupled to system control module 1110.
            In some embodiments, the system 1100 may be capable of functioning as the UE
    110 or 215 as described herein. In other embodiments, the system 1100 may be capable of
25 functioning as transmit station 105, eNB 220, or one of transmit stations 205 as described
   herein. In some embodiments, the system 1100 may include one or more computer
   readable media (e.g., system memory 1115 or NVM/storage 1120) having instructions and
   one or more processors (e.g., processor(s) 1105) coupled with the one or more computer
   readable media and configured to execute the instructions to implement a module to
30 perform actions described herein.
            System control module 1110 for one embodiment may include any suitable
   interface controllers to provide for any suitable interface to at least one of the processor(s)
    1105 and/or to any suitable device or component in communication with system control
   module 1110.
                                               - 16 -

           System control module 1110 may include memory controller module 1130 to
   provide an interface to system memory 1115. The memory controller module 1130 may be
   a hardware module, a software module, and/or a firmware module.
           System memory 1115 may be used to load and store data and/or instructions, for
 5 example, for system 1100. System memory 1115 for one embodiment may include any
   suitable volatile memory, such as suitable dynamic random access memory (DRAM), for
   example. In some embodiments, the system memory 1115 may include double data rate
   type four synchronous dynamic random-access memory (DDR4 SDRAM).
           System control module 1110 for one embodiment may include one or more
10 input/output (I/0) controller(s) to provide an interface to NVM/storage          1120 and
   communications interface(s) 1125.
           The NVM/storage 1120 may be used to store data and/or instructions, for example.
   NVM/storage 1120 may include any suitable non-volatile memory, such as flash memory,
   for example, and/or may include any suitable non-volatile storage device(s), such as one or
15 more hard disk drive(s) (HDD(s)), one or more compact disc (CD) drive(s), and/or one or
   more digital versatile disc (DVD) drive(s), for example.
           The NVM/storage 1120 may include a storage resource physically part of a device
   on which the system 1100 may be installed or it may be accessible by, but not necessarily
   a part of, the device. For example, the NVM/storage 1120 may be accessed over a network
20 via the communications interface(s) 1125.
           Communications interface(s) 1125 may provide an interface for system 1100 to
   communicate over one or more network(s) and/or with any other suitable device. The
   system 1100 may wirelessly communicate with the one or more components of the
   wireless network in accordance with any of one or more wireless network standards and/or
25 protocols. In some embodiments the communications interface(s) 1125 may include the
   transceiver modules 130 or 150.
           For one embodiment, at least one of the processor(s) 1105 may be packaged
   together with logic for one or more controller(s) of system control module 1110, e.g.,
   memory controller module 1130. For one embodiment, at least one of the processor(s)
30  1105 may be packaged together with logic for one or more controllers of system control
   module 1110 to form a System in Package (SiP). For one embodiment, at least one of the
   processor(s) 1105 may be integrated on the same die with logic for one or more
   controller(s) of system control module 1110. For one embodiment, at least one of the
                                               - 17 -

   processor(s) 1105 may be integrated on the same die with logic for one or more
   controller(s) of system control module 1110 to form a System on Chip (SoC).
           In some embodiments the processor(s) 1105 may include or otherwise be coupled
   with one or more of a graphics processor (GPU) (not shown), a digital signal processor
 5 (DSP) (not shown), wireless modem (not shown), digital camera or multimedia circuitry
   (not shown), sensor circuitry (not shown), display circuitry (not shown), and/or global
   positioning satellite (GPS) circuitry (not shown).
           In various embodiments, the system 1100 may be, but is not limited to, a server, a
   workstation, a desktop computing device, or a mobile computing device (e.g., a laptop
10 computing device, a handheld computing device, a tablet, a netbook, a smartphone, a
   gaming console, etc.). In various embodiments, the system 1100 may have more or fewer
   components, and/or different architectures. For example, in some embodiments, the
   system 1100 includes one or more of a camera, a keyboard, liquid crystal display (LCD)
   screen (including touch screen displays), non-volatile memory port, multiple antennas,
15 graphics chip, application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), and speakers.
   EXAMPLES
           Example 1 may include a method comprising: identifying, by a first cell of a
   cellular network that includes a plurality of cells, wherein cells in the plurality of cells
   have a same physical cell identifier (PCID) as one another, based on an indication of a
20 muting pattern related to a discovery reference signal (DRS) transmission, a first time
   instance associated with DRS transmission in which the first cell is to transmit a DRS;
   transmitting, by the first cell, the DRS in the first time instance; identifying, by the first
   cell based on the indication of the muting pattern, a second time instance associated with
   DRS transmission in which the first cell is to be muted; and muting, by the first cell,
25 transmissions of the first cell in the second time instance.
           Example 2 may include the method of example 1, wherein the DRS is based on a
   physical cell identifier (PCID) associated with the first cell.
           Example 3 may include the method of example 1, wherein the first cell and a
   second cell in the plurality of cells are cells of a coordinated multi point (CoMP) network.
30         Example 4 may include the method of example 1, wherein the DRS is a first DRS,
   and the muting pattern includes an indication that a second cell of the cellular network is
   to be muted during the first time instance and the second cell is to transmit a second DRS
   in the second time instance.
                                                  - 18 -

            Example 5 may include the method of any of examples 1-4, wherein the first time
   instance and the second time instance are respective subframes of a radio frame.
            Example 6 may include the method of any of examples 1-4, wherein the time
   instance includes more than one subframe.
 5          Example 7 may include one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   comprising instructions to cause a transmit station of a first cell of a cellular network that
   includes a plurality of cells, wherein cells in the plurality of cells have a same physical cell
   identifier (PCID) as one another, upon execution of the instructions by one or more
   processors of the transmit station, to: identify, based on an indication of a muting pattern
10 related to a discovery reference signal (DRS) transmission, a first time instance associated
   with DRS transmission in which the first cell is to transmit a DRS; transmit the DRS in the
   first time instance; identify, based on the indication of the muting pattern, a second time
   instance associated with DRS transmission in which the first cell is to be muted; and mute
   transmissions of the first cell in the second time instance.
15          Example 8 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of example 7, wherein the DRS is based on a physical cell identifier (PCID) associated
   with the first cell.
            Example 9 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of example 7, wherein the first cell and a second cell in the plurality of cells are cells of a
20 coordinated multi point (CoMP) network.
            Example 10 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of example 7, wherein the DRS is a first DRS, and the muting pattern includes an
   indication that a second cell of the cellular network is to be muted during the first time
   instance and the second cell is to transmit a second DRS in the second time instance.
25          Example 11 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of any of examples 7-10, wherein the first time instance and the second time instance are
   respective subframes of a radio frame.
            Example 12 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of any of examples 7-10, wherein the time instance includes more than one subframe.
30          Example 13 may include a transmit station of a first cell of a cellular network that
   includes a plurality of cells, wherein cells in the plurality of cells have a same physical cell
   identifier (PCID) as one another, the transmit station comprising:      means     to   identify,
   based on an indication of a muting pattern related to a discovery reference signal (DRS)
   transmission, a first time instance associated with DRS transmission in which the first cell
                                                 - 19 -

   is to transmit a DRS; means to transmit the DRS in the first time instance; means to
   identify, based on the indication of the muting pattern, a second time instance associated
   with DRS transmission in which the first cell is to be muted; and means to mute
   transmissions of the first cell in the second time instance.
 5         Example 14 may include the transmit station of example 13, wherein the DRS is
   based on a physical cell identifier (PCID) associated with the first cell.
           Example 15 may include the transmit station of example 13, wherein the first cell
   and a second cell in the plurality of cells are cells of a coordinated multi point (CoMP)
   network.
10         Example 16 may include the transmit station of example 13, wherein the DRS is a
   first DRS, and the muting pattern includes an indication that a second cell of the cellular
   network is to be muted during the first time instance and the second cell is to transmit a
   second DRS in the second time instance.
           Example 17 may include the transmit station of any of examples 13-16, wherein
15 the first time instance and the second time instance are respective subframes of a radio
   frame.
           Example 18 may include the transmit station of any of examples 13-16, wherein
   the time instance includes more than one subframe.
           Example 19 may include a transmit station of a first cell of a cellular network that
20 includes a plurality of cells, wherein cells in the plurality of cells have a same physical cell
   identifier (PCID) as one another, the transmit station comprising:      reference signal (RS)
   circuitry to: identify, based on an indication of a muting pattern related to a discovery
   reference signal (DRS) transmission, a first time instance associated with DRS
   transmission in which the first cell is to transmit a DRS; and identify, based on the
25 indication of the muting pattern, a second time instance associated with DRS transmission
   in which the first cell is to be muted; and transmit circuitry coupled with the control
   circuitry, the transmit circuitry to:    transmit the DRS in the first time instance; and
           mute transmissions of the first cell in the second time instance.
           Example 20 may include the transmit station of example 19, wherein the DRS is
30 based on a physical cell identifier (PCID) associated with the first cell.
           Example 21 may include the transmit station of example 19, wherein the first cell
   and a second cell in the plurality of cells are cells of a coordinated multi point (CoMP)
   network.
                                                 - 20 -

           Example 22 may include the transmit station of example 19, wherein the DRS is a
   first DRS, and the muting pattern includes an indication that a second cell of the cellular
   network is to be muted during the first time instance and the second cell is to transmit a
   second DRS in the second time instance.
 5         Example 23 may include the transmit station of any of examples 19-22, wherein
   the first time instance and the second time instance are respective subframes of a radio
   frame.
           Example 24 may include the transmit station of any of examples 19-22, wherein
   the time instance includes more than one subframe.
10         Example 25 may include a user equipment (UE) in a cellular network that includes
   a plurality of cells, the UE comprising: receive circuitry to receive a reference signal (RS)
   and a time instance associated with RS transmission;           RS     measurement      circuitry
   coupled with the receive circuitry, the RS measurement circuitry to:           identify, based
   on a muting configuration, the RS as an RS associated with a cell of the plurality of cells;
15 and     identify, based on the muting configuration, an RS measurement related to the
   received RS; and         transmit circuitry coupled with the RS measurement circuitry, the
   transmit circuitry to transmit, to an evolved NodeB (eNB), the RS measurement and an
   indication of the identified cell.
           Example 26 may include the UE of example 25, wherein the RS is a positioning
20 RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
           Example 27 may include the UE of example 25, wherein the RS measurement is a
   reference signal time difference (RSTD) or a measurement related to radio resource
   management (RRM).
           Example 28 may include the UE of any of examples 25-27, wherein the cellular
25 network is a coordinated multi point (CoMP) cellular network.
           Example 29 may include the UE of any of examples 25-27, wherein the UE further
   comprises a baseband processor coupled with the receive circuitry.
           Example 30 may include the UE of any of examples 25-27, wherein the time
   instance is a subframe of a radio frame or a unit of the subframe.
30         Example 31 may include the UE of any of examples 25-27, wherein the indication
   of the identified cell is an indication of a muting pattern associated with the identified cell.
           Example 32 may include the UE of any of examples 25-27, wherein the RS is
   based on a physical cell identifier (PCID) of the cell.
                                                 - 21 -

           Example 33 may include a method comprising: receiving, by a user equipment
   (UE) in a cellular network that includes a plurality of cells, a reference signal (RS) and a
   time instance associated with RS transmission; identifying, by the UE based on a muting
   configuration, the RS as an RS associated with a cell of the plurality of cells;
 5         identifying, by the UE based on the muting configuration, an RS measurement
   related to the received RS; and transmitting, by the UE to an evolved NodeB (eNB), the
   RS measurement and an indication of the identified cell.
           Example 34 may include the method of example 33, wherein the RS is a
   positioning RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
10         Example 35 may include the method of example 33, wherein the RS measurement
   is a reference signal time difference (RSTD) or a measurement related to radio resource
   management (RRM).
           Example 36 may include the method of any of examples 33-35, wherein the
   cellular network is a coordinated multi point (CoMP) cellular network.
15         Example 37 may include the method of any of examples 33-35, wherein the time
   instance is a subframe of a radio frame or a unit of the subframe.
           Example 38 may include the method of any of examples 33-35, wherein the
   indication of the identified cell is an indication of a muting pattern associated with the
   identified cell.
20         Example 39 may include the method of any of examples 33-35, wherein the RS is
   based on a physical cell identifier (PCID) of the cell.
           Example 40 may include one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   comprising instructions to cause a user equipment (UE) in a cellular network that includes
   a plurality of cells, upon execution of the instructions by one or more processors of the
25 UE, to: receive a reference signal (RS) and a time instance associated with RS
   transmission; identify, based on a muting configuration, the RS as an RS associated with a
   cell of the plurality of cells;      identify, based on the muting configuration, an RS
   measurement related to the received RS; and transmit, to an evolved NodeB (eNB), the RS
   measurement and an indication of the identified cell.
30         Example 41 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of example 40, wherein the RS is a positioning RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
           Example 42 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of example 40, wherein the RS measurement is a reference signal time difference (RSTD)
   or a measurement related to radio resource management (RRM).
                                                 - 22 -

            Example 43 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of any of examples 40-42, wherein the cellular network is a coordinated multi point
   (CoMP) cellular network.
            Example 44 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
 5 of any of examples 40-42, wherein the time instance is a subframe of a radio frame or a
   unit of the subframe.
            Example 45 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of any of examples 40-42, wherein the indication of the identified cell is an indication of a
   muting pattern associated with the identified cell.
10          Example 46 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of any of examples 40-42, wherein the RS is based on a physical cell identifier (PCID) of
   the cell.
            Example 47 may include a user equipment (UE) in a cellular network that includes
   a plurality of cells, the ULE comprising: means to receive a reference signal (RS) and a time
15 instance associated with RS transmission;           means to identify, based on a muting
   configuration, the RS as an RS associated with a cell of the plurality of cells; means to
   identify, based on the muting configuration, an RS measurement related to the received
   RS; and means to transmit, to an evolved NodeB (eNB), the RS measurement and an
   indication of the identified cell.
20          Example 48 may include the UE of example 47, wherein the RS is a positioning
   RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
            Example 49 may include the UE of example 47, wherein the RS measurement is a
   reference signal time difference (RSTD) or a measurement related to radio resource
   management (RRM).
25          Example 50 may include the UE of any of examples 47-49, wherein the cellular
   network is a coordinated multi point (CoMP) cellular network.
            Example 51 may include the UE of any of examples 47-49, wherein the time
   instance is a subframe of a radio frame or a unit of the subframe.
            Example 52 may include the UE of any of examples 47-49, wherein the indication
30 of the identified cell is an indication of a muting pattern associated with the identified cell.
            Example 53 may include the UE of any of examples 47-49, wherein the RS is
   based on a physical cell identifier (PCID) of the cell.
            Example 54 may include a transmit station of a cell of a cellular network, the
   transmit station comprising: reference signal (RS) circuitry to identify, based on an
                                                 -23 -

   indication of a discovery RS (DRS) time instance offset, a time instance in which the
   transmit station is to transmit a DRS; and transmit circuitry coupled with the RS circuitry,
   the transmit circuitry to transmit the DRS in the time instance.
            Example 55 may include the transmit station of example 54, wherein the time
 5 instance is an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) symbol, a time slot of
   a subframe, a subframe, or a radio frame.
            Example 56 may include the transmit station of examples 54 or 55, wherein the
   DRS is based on a physical cell identifier (PCID) of the transmit station.
            Example 57 may include the transmit station of examples 54 or 55, wherein the
10 DRS is a channel state information RS (CSI-RS).
            Example 58 may include the transmit station of examples 54 or 55, wherein the
   cell is a cell of a coordinated multi point (CoMP) network.
            Example 59 may include the transmit station of examples 54 or 55, wherein the
   transmit station is a transmit point (TP) of the cellular network or a remote radio head
15 (RRH) of the cellular network.
            Example 60 may include a method comprising: identifying, by a transmit station of
   a cell of a cellular network, based on an indication of a discovery RS (DRS) time instance
   offset, a time instance in which the transmit station is to transmit a DRS; and transmitting,
   by the transmit station, the DRS in the time instance.
20          Example 61 may include the method of example 60, wherein the time instance is
   an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) symbol, a time slot of a subframe,
   a subframe, or a radio frame.
            Example 62 may include the method of examples 60 or 61, wherein the DRS is
   based on a physical cell identifier (PCID) of the transmit station.
25          Example 63 may include the method of examples 60 or 61, wherein the DRS is a
   channel state information RS (CSI-RS).
            Example 64 may include the method of examples 60 or 61, wherein the cell is a
   cell of a coordinated multi point (CoMP) network.
            Example 65 may include the method of examples 60 or 61, wherein the transmit
30 station is a transmit point (TP) of the cellular network or a remote radio head (RRH) of the
   cellular network.
            Example 66 may include one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   comprising instructions to cause a transmit station of a cell of a cellular network, upon
   execution of the instructions by one or more processors of the transmit station, to: identify,
                                                 - 24 -

   based on an indication of a discovery RS (DRS) time instance offset, a time instance in
   which the transmit station is to transmit a DRS; and transmit the DRS in the time instance.
            Example 67 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of example 66, wherein the time instance is an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing
 5 (OFDM) symbol, a time slot of a subframe, a subframe, or a radio frame.
            Example 68 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of examples 66 or 67, wherein the DRS is based on a physical cell identifier (PCID) of the
   transmit station.
            Example 69 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
10 of examples 66 or 67, wherein the DRS is a channel state information RS (CSI-RS).
            Example 70 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of examples 66 or 67, wherein the cell is a cell of a coordinated multi point (CoMP)
   network.
            Example 71 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
15 of examples 66 or 67, wherein the transmit station is a transmit point (TP) of the cellular
   network or a remote radio head (RRH) of the cellular network.
            Example 72 may include a transmit station of a cell of a cellular network, the
   transmit station comprising: means to identify, based on an indication of a discovery RS
   (DRS) time instance offset, a time instance in which the transmit station is to transmit a
20 DRS; and means to transmit the DRS in the time instance.
            Example 73 may include the transmit station of example 72, wherein the time
   instance is an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) symbol, a time slot of
   a subframe, a subframe, or a radio frame.
            Example 74 may include the transmit station of examples 72 or 73, wherein the
25 DRS is based on a physical cell identifier (PCID) of the transmit station.
            Example 75 may include the transmit station of examples 72 or 73, wherein the
   DRS is a channel state information RS (CSI-RS).
            Example 76 may include the transmit station of examples 72 or 73, wherein the
   cell is a cell of a coordinated multi point (CoMP) network.
30          Example 77 may include the transmit station of examples 72 or 73, wherein the
   transmit station is a transmit point (TP) of the cellular network or a remote radio head
   (RRH) of the cellular network.
            Example 78 may include one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   comprising instructions to cause a user equipment (UE) in a cellular network, upon
                                                 -25 -

   execution of the instructions by one or more processors of the UE, to: receive a reference
   signal (RS) from a cell in the cellular network; identify a network-configured time-offset
   parameter associated with the RS; identify, based on the network-configured time-offset
   parameter, an RS measurement related to the received RS; and transmit, to an evolved
 5 NodeB (eNB), the RS measurement and an indication of the network-configured time
   offset parameter.
           Example 79 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of example 78, wherein the RS is a positioning RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
           Example 80 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
10 of examples 78 or 79, wherein the RS measurement is a reference signal time difference
   (RSTD) or a measurement related to radio resource management (RRM).
           Example 81 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of examples 78 or 79, wherein the cellular network is a coordinated multi point (CoMP)
   cellular network.
15         Example 82 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of examples 78 or 79, wherein the network-configured time-offset parameter includes an
   RS configuration index, an indication of an RS periodicity, an indication of RS time
   instance offset, or an indication of a channel state information (CSI) RS configuration.
           Example 83 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
20 of example 82, wherein the RS periodicity is 1, 2, 4, or 6 subframes.
           Example 84 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of examples 78 or 79, wherein the RS is based on a physical cell identifier (PCID) of the
   cell.
           Example 85 may include a method comprising: receiving, by a user equipment
25 (UE) in a cellular network, a reference signal (RS) from a cell in the cellular network;
   identifying, by the UE, a network-configured time-offset parameter associated with the
   RS; identifying, by the UE based on the network-configured time-offset parameter, an RS
   measurement related to the received RS; and            transmitting, by the UE to an evolved
   NodeB (eNB), the RS measurement and an indication of the network-configured time
30 offset parameter.
           Example 86 may include the method of example 85, wherein the RS is a
   positioning RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
                                               - 26  -

             Example 87 may include the method of examples 85 or 86, wherein the RS
   measurement is a reference signal time difference (RSTD) or a measurement related to
   radio resource management (RRM).
             Example 88 may include the method of examples 85 or 86, wherein the cellular
 5 network is a coordinated multi point (CoMP) cellular network.
             Example 89 may include the method of examples 85 or 86, wherein the network
   configured time-offset parameter includes an RS configuration index, an indication of an
   RS periodicity, an indication of RS time instance offset, or an indication of a channel state
   information (CSI) RS configuration.
10           Example 90 may include the method of example 89, wherein the RS periodicity is
    1, 2, 4, or 6 subframes.
             Example 91 may include the method of examples 85 or 86, wherein the RS is
   based on a physical cell identifier (PCID) of the cell.
             Example 92 may include a user equipment (UE) in a cellular network, the UE
15 comprising: means to receive a reference signal (RS) from a cell in the cellular network;
   means to identify a network-configured time-offset parameter associated with the RS;
   means to identify, based on the network-configured          time-offset parameter, an RS
   measurement related to the received RS; and means to transmit, to an evolved NodeB
   (eNB), the RS measurement and an indication of the network-configured time-offset
20 parameter.
             Example 93 may include the UE of example 92, wherein the RS is a positioning
   RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
             Example 94 may include the UE of examples 92 or 93, wherein the RS
   measurement is a reference signal time difference (RSTD) or a measurement related to
25 radio resource management (RRM).
             Example 95 may include the UE of examples 92 or 93, wherein the cellular
   network is a coordinated multi point (CoMP) cellular network.
             Example 96 may include the UE of examples 92 or 93, wherein the network
   configured time-offset parameter includes an RS configuration index, an indication of an
30 RS periodicity, an indication of RS time instance offset, or an indication of a channel state
   information (CSI) RS configuration.
             Example 97 may include the UE of example 96, wherein the RS periodicity is 1, 2,
   4, or 6 subframes.
                                              - 27  -

            Example 98 may include the UE of examples 92 or 93, wherein the RS is based on
   a physical cell identifier (PCID) of the cell.
            Example 99 may include a user equipment (UE) in a cellular network, the UE
   comprising: receive circuitry to receive a reference signal (RS) from a cell in the cellular
 5 network;    RS measurement       circuitry coupled with the receive circuitry, the RS
   measurement circuitry to: identify a network-configured time-offset parameter associated
   with the RS; and identify, based on the network-configured time-offset parameter, an RS
   measurement related to the received RS; and transmit circuitry coupled with the RS
   measurement circuitry, the transmit circuitry to transmit, to an evolved NodeB (eNB), the
10 RS measurement and an indication of the network-configured time-offset parameter.
            Example 100 may include the UE of example 99, wherein the RS is a positioning
   RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
            Example 101 may include the UE of examples 99 or 100, wherein the RS
   measurement is a reference signal time difference (RSTD) or a measurement related to
15 radio resource management (RRM).
            Example 102 may include the UE of examples 99 or 100, wherein the cellular
   network is a coordinated multi point (CoMP) cellular network.
            Example 103 may include the UE of examples 99 or 100, wherein the network
   configured time-offset parameter includes an RS configuration index, an indication of an
20 RS periodicity, an indication of RS time instance offset, or an indication of a channel state
   information (CSI) RS configuration.
            Example 104 may include the UE of example 103, wherein the RS periodicity is 1,
   2, 4, or 6 subframes.
            Example 105 may include the UE of examples 99 or 100, wherein the RS is based
25 on a physical cell identifier (PCID) of the cell.
            Example 106 may include a method comprising: generating, by a cell based on a
   virtual cell identifier (VCID) associated with the cell that is different than a physical cell
   identifier (PCID) associated with the cell, a parameter of a reference signal (RS); and
   transmitting, by the cell, a RS based on the parameter and the VCID to a user equipment
30 (UE) in the cellular network.
            Example 107 may include the method of example 106, wherein the RS is a
   positioning RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
            Example 108 may include the method of example 106, further comprising
   generating the RS based on a pseudo-random sequence based on the VCID.
                                                -28-

           Example 109 may include the method of example 106, wherein the PCID is the
   same as a PCID of another cell of the cellular network, and the VCID is different than a
   VCID associated with the another cell.
           Example 110 may include the method of example 106, wherein the cellular
 5 network is a coordinated multi point (COMP) cellular network.
           Example 111 may include the method of example 106, wherein the parameter is a
   sequence associated with the RS or a resource element mapping associated with the RS.
           Example 112 may include a transmit station of a cell in a wireless network, the
   transmit station comprising: means to generate, based on a virtual cell identifier (VCID)
10 associated with the cell that is different than a physical cell identifier (PCID) associated
   with the cell, a parameter of a reference signal (RS); and means to transmit a RS based on
   the parameter and the VCID to a user equipment (UE) in the cellular network.
           Example 113 may include the transmit station of example 112, wherein the RS is a
   positioning RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
15         Example 114 may include the transmit station of example 112, further comprising
   means to generate the RS based on a pseudo-random sequence based on the VCID.
           Example 115 may include the transmit station of any of examples 112-114,
   wherein the PCID is the same as a PCID of another cell of the cellular network, and the
   VCID is different than a VCID associated with the another cell.
20         Example 116 may include the transmit station of any of examples 112-114,
   wherein the cellular network is a coordinated multi point (COMP) cellular network.
           Example 117 may include the transmit station of any of examples 112-114,
   wherein the parameter is a sequence associated with the RS or a resource element mapping
   associated with the RS.
25         Example 118 may include one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   comprising instructions to cause a transmit station of a cell in a wireless network, upon
   execution of the instructions by one or more processors of the transmit station, to:
   generate, based on a virtual cell identifier (VCID) associated with the cell that is different
   than a physical cell identifier (PCID) associated with the cell, a parameter of a reference
30 signal (RS); and transmit a RS based on the parameter and the VCID to a user equipment
   (UE) in the cellular network.
           Example 119 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of example 118, wherein the RS is a positioning RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
                                                - 29 -

           Example 120 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of example 118, wherein the instructions are further to generate the RS based on a pseudo
   random sequence based on the VCID.
           Example 121 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
 5 of any of examples 118-120, wherein the PCID is the same as a PCID of another cell of
   the cellular network, and the VCID is different than a VCID associated with the another
   cell.
           Example 122 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of any of examples 118-120, wherein the cellular network is a coordinated multi point
10 (COMP) cellular network.
           Example 123 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of any of examples 118-120, wherein the parameter is a sequence associated with the RS
   or a resource element mapping associated with the RS.
           Example 124 may include a transmit station of a cell in wireless network, the
15 transmit station comprising: reference signal (RS) circuitry to generate, based on a virtual
   cell identifier (VCID) associated with the cell that is different than a physical cell
   identifier (PCID) associated with the cell, a parameter of a RS; and transmit circuitry
   coupled with the RS circuitry, the transmit circuitry to transmit a RS based on the
   parameter and the VCID to a user equipment (UE) in the cellular network.
20         Example 125 may include the transmit station of example 124, wherein the RS is a
   positioning RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
           Example 126 may include the transmit station of example 124, wherein the RS
   circuitry is further to generate the RS based on a pseudo-random sequence based on the
   VCID.
25         Example 127 may include the transmit station of any of examples 124-126,
   wherein the PCID is the same as a PCID of another cell of the cellular network, and the
   VCID is different than a VCID associated with the another cell.
           Example 128 may include the transmit station of any of examples 124-126,
   wherein the cellular network is a coordinated multi point (COMP) cellular network.
30         Example 129 may include the transmit station of any of examples 124-126,
   wherein the parameter is a sequence associated with the RS or a resource element mapping
   associated with the RS.
           Example 130 may include a method comprising: identifying, by a user equipment
   (UE) in a cellular network, a received reference signal (RS) as an RS of a cell of the
                                              - 30 -

   cellular network based on a received virtual cell identifier (VCID) of the cell that is
   different than a physical cell identifier (PCID) of the cell; measure a signal characteristic
   of the RS; and transmit an indication of the cell and an indication of the signal
   characteristic.
 5          Example 131 may include the method of example 130, wherein the signal
   characteristic is a reference signal time difference (RSTD) of the RS or a measurement
   related to radio resource management (RRM) of the RS.
            Example 132 may include the method of example 130, wherein the cellular
   network is a coordinated multi point (COMP) cellular network.
10          Example 133 may include the method of any of examples 130-132, wherein the RS
   is a first RS and further comprising: generating a second RS based on the VCID; and
   identifying that the first RS and the second RS are equivalent.
            Example 134 may include the method of example 133, wherein the generating the
   second RS includes generating a pseudo-random sequence based on the VCID.
15          Example 135 may include the method of any of examples 130-132, wherein the RS
   is a physical RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
            Example 136 may include a user equipment (UE) of a cellular network, the UE
   comprising: means to identify a received reference signal (RS) as an RS of a cell of the
   cellular network based on a received virtual cell identifier (VCID) of the cell that is
20 different than a physical cell identifier (PCID) of the cell; means to measure a signal
   characteristic of the RS; and means to transmit an indication of the cell and an indication
   of the signal characteristic.
            Example 137 may include the UE of example 136, wherein the signal characteristic
   is a reference signal time difference (RSTD) of the RS or a measurement related to radio
25 resource management (RRM) of the RS.
            Example 138 may include the UE of example 136, wherein the cellular network is
   a coordinated multi point (COMP) cellular network.
            Example 139 may include the UE of any of examples 136-138, wherein the RS is a
   first RS and further comprising: means to generate a second RS based on the VCID; and
30 means to identify that the first RS and the second RS are equivalent.
            Example 140 may include the UE of example 139, wherein the means to generate
   the second RS include means to a pseudo-random sequence based on the VCID.
            Example 141 may include the UE of any of examples 136-138, wherein the RS is a
   physical RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
                                               -31  -

            Example 142 may include one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   comprising instructions to cause a user equipment (UE) of a cellular network, upon
   execution of the instructions by one or more processors of the UE, to: identify a received
   reference signal (RS) as an RS of a cell of the cellular network based on a received virtual
 5 cell identifier (VCID) of the cell that is different than a physical cell identifier (PCID) of
   the cell; measure a signal characteristic of the RS; and transmit an indication of the cell
   and an indication of the signal characteristic.
            Example 143 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of example 142, wherein the signal characteristic is a reference signal time difference
10 (RSTD) of the RS or a measurement related to radio resource management (RRM) of the
   RS.
            Example 144 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of example 142, wherein the cellular network is a coordinated multi point (COMP)
   cellular network.
15          Example 145 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of any of examples 142-144, further comprising instructions to: generate a second RS
   based on the VCID; and identify that the first RS and the second RS are equivalent.
            Example 146 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of example 145, wherein the instructions to generate the second RS include instructions to
20 generate a pseudo-random sequence based on the VCID.
            Example 147 may include the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media
   of any of examples 142-144, wherein the RS is a physical RS (PRS) or a discovery RS
   (DRS).
            Example 148 may include a user equipment (UE) of a cellular network, the UE
25 comprising: reference signal (RS) measurement circuitry to: identify a received RS as an
   RS of a cell of the cellular network based on a received virtual cell identifier (VCID) of
   the cell that is different than a physical cell identifier (PCID) of the cell; and measure a
   signal characteristic of the RS; and transmit circuitry coupled with the RS measurement
   circuitry, the transmit circuitry to transmit an indication of the cell and an indication of the
30 signal characteristic.
            Example 149 may include the UE of example 148, wherein the signal characteristic
   is a reference signal time difference (RSTD) of the RS or a measurement related to radio
   resource management (RRM) of the RS.
                                                 - 32 -

           Example 150 may include the UE of example 148, wherein the cellular network is
   a coordinated multi point (COMP) cellular network.
           Example 151 may include the UE of any of examples 148-150, wherein the RS is a
   first RS and the RS measurement is further to: generate a second RS based on the VCID;
 5 and identify that the first RS and the second RS are equivalent.
           Example 152 may include the UE of example 151, wherein the RS measurement
   circuitry is further to generate a pseudo-random sequence based on the VCID.
           Example 153 may include the UE of any of examples 148-150, wherein the RS is a
   physical RS (PRS) or a discovery RS (DRS).
10         Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein for
   purposes of description, this application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations
   of the embodiments         discussed herein.    Therefore, it is manifestly intended that
   embodiments described herein be limited only by the claims.
           Where the disclosure recites "a" or "a first" element or the equivalent thereof, such
15 disclosure includes one or more such elements, neither requiring nor excluding two or
   more such elements. Further, ordinal indicators (e.g., first, second or third) for identified
   elements are used to distinguish between the elements, and do not indicate or imply a
   required or limited number of such elements, nor do they indicate a particular position or
   order of such elements unless otherwise specifically stated.
20         This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
   2015231953. The full disclosure of AU2015231953 is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                - 33 -

Claims
         1. A user equipment (UE) comprising:
        means for identifying a received discovery reference signal (DRS);
        means for identifying a time-domain offset parameter associated with the DRS; and
        means for performing, based on the time-domain offset parameter, a measurement related
to the DRS.
        2. The UE of claim 1, wherein the DRS is a channel state information (CSI) RS (CSI
RS).
        3. The UE of claim 1, further comprising means for transmitting an indication of the
measurement related to the DRS.
        4. The UE of claim 3, wherein the means for transmitting the indication of the
measurement relating to the DRS is to transmit the indication of the measurement relating to the
DRS to an evolved NodeB (eNB).
        5. The UE of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the time-domain offset parameter is related
to a subframe offset.
        6. The UE of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the DRS is related to a network wherein a
plurality of cells are to transmit with a same identifier.
        7. The UE of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the DRS is related to a network that is a
coordinated multi-point (CoMP) network.
         8. The UE of any one of claims 1-4, further comprising means for receiving the DRS.
        9. The UE of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the DRS is based on a physical cell
identifier (PCID).
                                                    - 34 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
