           PREDICTING THE FUTURE STATE OF A MOBILE DEVICE USER
                                          ABSTRACT
        In one embodiment, a computing system accesses current usage information of a mobile
device associated with a user. The computing system then determine a future user state of the
user based on multiple predictor functions. The multiple predictor functions calculate a
probability of the future user state based on multiple weights and multiple decay factors. The
multiple decay factors are determined from past user states. The computing system further sends
instructions to the mobile device for adapting the operation of the mobile device corresponding
to the determined future user state.

                          1/5
                  160
                                                   162
                                                   SERVER
                                                   164
                                                   DATA STORE
                                       i50
    CLIENT SYSTEM
130 WEB BROWSER                           NETWORK
          132                  k110)
                                       150
                                 --------  -"- - ------
                          17 0         THIRD-PARTY
                                           SYSTEM
                      FIGURE 1

                                                   1
            PREDICTING THE FUTURE STATE OF A MOBILE DEVICE USER
RELATED APPLICATIONS
        [1]     This application is related to U.S. Patent Application No. 13/656,531 filed
 19 October 2012,    European     Patent Application   No.   13189171      filed  17 October 2013,
International Patent Application No. PCT/US2013/065551 titled "Method relating to predicting
the future state of a mobile device user" filed 18 October 2013 in the name of Facebook, Inc.,
Australian Patent Application No. 2013331162 filed 18 October 2013, U.S Patent Application
No. 14/882,739 filed 14 October 2015, Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> titled
"Predicting the future state of a mobile device user" filed 6 June 2016, U.S. Patent Application
No. 15/246,349 filed 24 August 2016, Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> filed
28 October 2016, and U.S. Patent Application No. 15/909,810 filed 1 March 2018, the entire
content of each of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
TECHNICAL FIELD
        [2]     This disclosure generally relates to mobile devices and mobile device users.
BACKGROUND
        [3]     A mobile device-such as a smartphone, tablet computer, or laptop computer
may include functionality for determining its location, direction, or orientation, such as a Global
Positioning System (GPS) receiver, compass, or gyroscope. Such a device may also include
functionality for wireless communication, such as BLUETOOTH communication, near-field
communication (NFC), or infrared (IR) communication or communication with a wireless local
area networks (WLANs) or cellular-telephone network. Such a device may also include one or
more cameras, scanners, touchscreens, microphones, or speakers. Mobile devices may also
execute software applications, such as games, web browsers, or social-networking applications.
With social-networking applications, users may connect, communicate, and share information
with other users in their social networks.

                                                  2
SUMMARY OF PARTICULAR EMBODIMENTS
        [4]     A first aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising, by one or
more computing devices:
        accessing current usage information of a mobile device associated with a user;
        determining a future user state of the user based on a set of predictor functions, wherein
the predictor functions calculate a probability of the future user state based on a set of weights
and a set of decay factors determined from one or more past user states; and
        sending, to the mobile device associated with the user, instructions for adapting an
operation of the mobile device corresponding to the determined future user state.
        [5]     A second aspect of the present disclosure provides one or more computer
readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to:
        access current usage information of a mobile device associated with a user;
        determine a future user state of the user based on a set of predictor functions, wherein the
predictor functions calculate a probability of the future user state based on a set of weights and a
set of decay factors determined from one or more past user states; and
        send, to the mobile device associated with the user, instructions for adapting an operation
of the mobile device corresponding to the determined future user state.
        [6]     A third aspect of the present disclosure provides a system comprising: one or
more processors; and a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by
the processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to:
        access current usage information of a mobile device associated with a user;
        determine a future user state of the user based on a set of predictor functions, wherein the
predictor functions calculate a probability of the future user state based on a set of weights and a
set of decay factors determined from one or more past user states; and
        send, to the mobile device associated with the user, instructions for adapting an operation
of the mobile device corresponding to the determined future user state.
        [7]     Particular embodiments enable a mobile device to predict a future state of a user
of that mobile device. In practice, a mobile device logs information such as the local time

                                                  3
reported by the device, the location of the device, or the network connectivity of the device and
cross-references that information against historical data to predict a future state of the user of the
device. In one embodiment, the mobile device user is a user of a social network and the historical
data is drawn from that user's social graph data. Based on a predicted future user state, the
mobile device alters its behavior to better meet the future needs or requirements of the user.
        [8]      In some embodiments, the predicted future user state of the mobile device user
can be that the user is commuting to work, that the user is at home, that the user is at work, that
the user is having dinner with friends, that the users is in a public social setting, that the user is in
a foreign country, or that the user will be connected via a particular telecommunications network.
The mobile device uses this predicted state to meet the needs of the user. The mobile device may
cache new messages until the user has arrived at her predicted destination. Alternatively, the
mobile device may automatically launch a software application related to the restaurant the user
is dining at. In particular embodiments, the mobile device may request lower bandwidth services
while it is predicted to be connected to a particular telecommunications network. This allows the
mobile device to automatically tailor operation to the user's activities.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [9]      FIGURE 1 illustrates an example network environment associated with a social
networking system.
        [10]     FIGURE 2 illustrates an example mobile device.
        [11]     FIGURE 3 illustrates an example method of predicting a future state of a mobile
device user.
        [12]     FIGURE 4 illustrates an example block diagram of a predictor function.
        [13]     FIGURE 5 illustrates an example computer system.

                                                4
DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
         [14]  FIGURE 1 illustrates an example network environment 100 associated with a
social-networking system. Network environment 100 includes a client system 130, a social
networking system 160, and a third-party system 170 connected to each other by a network 110.
Although FIGURE 1 illustrates a particular arrangement of client system 130, social-networking
system 160, third-party system 170, and network 110, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
arrangement of client system 130, social-networking system 160, third-party system 170, and
network 110. As an example and not by way of limitation, two or more of client system 130,
social-networking system 160, and third-party system 170 may be connected to each other
directly, bypassing network 110. As another example, two or more of client system 130, social
networking system 160, and third-party system 170 may be physically or logically co-located
with each other in whole or in part. Moreover, although FIGURE 1 illustrates a particular
number of client systems 130, social-networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and
networks 110, this disclosure contemplates any suitable number of client systems 130, social
networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and networks 110. As an example and not by
way of limitation, network environment 100 may include multiple client system 130, social
networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and networks 110.
         [15]  This disclosure contemplates any suitable network 110. As an example and not by
way of limitation, one or more portions of network 110 may include an ad hoc network, an
intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a local area network (LAN), a wireless
LAN (WLAN), a wide area network (WAN), a wireless WAN (WWAN), a metropolitan area
network (MAN), a portion of the Internet, a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network
(PSTN), a cellular telephone network, or a combination of two or more of these. Network 110
may include one or more networks 110.
         [16]  Links 150 may connect client system 130, social-networking system 160, and
third-party system 170 to communication network 110 or to each other. This disclosure
contemplates any suitable links 150. In particular embodiments, one or more links 150 include
one or more wireline (such as for example Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) or Data Over Cable

                                                5
Service Interface Specification (DOCSIS)), wireless (such as for example Wi-Fi or Worldwide
Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX)), or optical (such as for example Synchronous
Optical Network (SONET) or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH)) links. In particular
embodiments, one or more links 150 each include an ad hoc network, an intranet, an extranet, a
VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a WAN, a WWAN, a MAN, a portion of the Internet, a portion of the
PSTN, a cellular technology-based network, a satellite communications technology-based
network, another link 150, or a combination of two or more such links 150. Links 150 need not
necessarily be the same throughout network environment 100. One or more first links 150 may
differ in one or more respects from one or more second links 150.
         [17]   In particular embodiments, client system 130 may be an electronic device
including hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more
such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or
supported by client system 130. As an example and not by way of limitation, a client system 130
may include a computer system such as a desktop computer, notebook or laptop computer,
netbook, a tablet computer, e-book reader, GPS device, camera, personal digital assistant (PDA),
handheld electronic device, cellular telephone, smartphone, other suitable electronic device, or
any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems 130.
A client system 130 may enable a network user at client system 130 to access network 110. A
client system 130 may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems
 130.
         [18]   In particular embodiments, client system 130 may include a web browser 132,
such    as MICROSOFT         INTERNET     EXPLORER,      GOOGLE CHROME           or MOZILLA
FIREFOX, and may have one or more add-ons, plug-ins, or other extensions, such as TOOLBAR
or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system 130 may enter a Uniform Resource Locator
(URL) or other address directing the web browser 132 to a particular server (such as server 162,
or a server associated with a third-party system 170), and the web browser 132 may generate a
Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The
server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system 130 one or more Hyper
Text Markup Language (HTML) files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system 130 may

                                                  6
render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This
disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation,
webpages may render from HTML files, Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language (XHTML)
files, or Extensible Markup Language (XML) files, according to particular needs. Such pages
may also execute scripts such as, for example and without limitation, those written in
JAVASCRIPT, JAVA, MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT, combinations of markup language and
scripts such as AJAX (Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML), and the like. Herein, reference
to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files (which a browser may use
to render the webpage) and vice versa, where appropriate.
         [19]  In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be a network
addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social-networking system
 160 may generate, store, receive, and transmit social-networking data, such as, for example,
user-profile data, concept-profile data, social-graph information, or other suitable data related to
the online social network. Social-networking system 160 may be accessed by the other
components of network environment 100 either directly or via network 110. In particular
embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include one or more servers 162. Each server
 162 may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple
datacenters. Servers 162 may be of various types, such as, for example and without limitation,
web server, news server, mail server, message server, advertising server, file server, application
server, exchange server, database server, proxy server, another server suitable for performing
functions or processes described herein, or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments,
each server 162 may include hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a
combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities
implemented or supported by server 162. In particular embodiments, social-networking system
 164 may include one or more data stores 164. Data stores 164 may be used to store various types
of information. In particular embodiments, the information stored in data stores 164 may be
organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments, each data store 164
may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client

                                                  7
system 130, a social-networking system 160, or a third-party system 170 to manage, retrieve,
modify, add, or delete, the information stored in data store 164.
        [20]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may store one or more
social graphs in one or more data stores 164. In particular embodiments, a social graph may
include multiple nodes-which may include multiple user nodes (each corresponding to a
particular user) or multiple concept nodes (each corresponding to a particular concept) -and
multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social-networking system 160 may provide users of the
online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular
embodiments, users may join the online social network via social-networking system 160 and
then add connections (i.e., relationships) to a number of other users of social-networking system
 160 whom they want to be connected to. Herein, the term "friend" may refer to any other user of
social-networking system 160 with whom a user has formed a connection, association, or
relationship via social-networking system 160.
        [21]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may provide users with
the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects, supported by social-networking
system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, the items and objects may include
groups or social networks to which users of social-networking system 160 may belong, events or
calendar entries in which a user might be interested, computer-based applications that a user may
use, transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service, interactions with
advertisements that a user may perform, or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact
with anything that is capable of being represented in social-networking system 160 or by an
external system of third-party system 170, which is separate from social-networking system 160
and coupled to social-networking system 160 via a network 110.
        [22]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be capable of
linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation, social-networking
system 160 may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third
party systems 170 or other entities, or to allow users to interact with these entities through an
application programming interfaces (API) or other communication channels.

                                                   8
         [23]   In particular embodiments, a third-party system 170 may include one or more
types of servers, one or more data stores, one or more interfaces, including but not limited to
APIs, one or more web services, one or more content sources, one or more networks, or any
other suitable components, e.g., that servers may communicate with. A third-party system 170
may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, however, social-networking system 160 and third-party systems 170
may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social-networking services to users of
social-networking system 160 or third-party systems 170. In this sense, social-networking system
 160 may provide a platform, or backbone, which other systems, such as third-party systems 170,
may use to provide social-networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.
         [24]   In particular embodiments, a third-party system 170 may include a third-party
content object provider. A third-party content object provider may include one or more sources
of content objects, which may be communicated to a client system 130. As an example and not
by way of limitation, content objects may include information regarding things or activities of
interest to the user, such as, for example, movie show times, movie reviews, restaurant reviews,
restaurant menus, product information and reviews, or other suitable information. As another
example and not by way of limitation, content objects may include incentive content objects,
such as coupons, discount tickets, gift certificates, or other suitable incentive objects.
         [25]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 also includes user
generated content objects, which may enhance a user's interactions with social-networking
system 160. User-generated content may include anything a user can add, upload, send, or "post"
to social-networking system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user
communicates posts to social-networking system 160 from a client system 130. Posts may
include data such as status updates or other textual data, location information, photos, videos,
links, music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social-networking
system 160 by a third-party through a "communication channel," such as a newsfeed or stream.
         [26]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include a variety
of servers, sub-systems,      programs, modules,       logs, and data stores      164. In particular
embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include one or more of the following: a web

                                                 9
server, action logger, API-request server, relevance-and-ranking engine, content-object classifier,
notification controller, action log, third-party-content-object-exposure log, inference module,
authorization/privacy server, search module, ad-targeting module, user-interface module, user
profile store, connection store, third-party content store, or location store. Social-networking
system 160 may also include suitable components such as network interfaces, security
mechanisms, load balancers, failover servers, management-and-network-operations          consoles,
other suitable components, or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments,
social-networking system 160 may include one or more user-profile stores for storing user
profiles. A user profile may include, for example, biographic information, demographic
information,    behavioral  information, social    information, or other types of descriptive
information, such as work experience, educational history, hobbies or preferences, interests,
affinities, or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more
categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation, if
a user "likes" an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand, or the general
category of "shoes" or "clothing." A connection store may be used for storing connection
information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or
common work experience, group memberships, hobbies, educational history, or are in any way
related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user-defined
connections between different users and content (both internal and external). A web server may
be used for linking social-networking system 160 to one or more client systems 130 or one or
more third-party system 170 via network 110. The web server may include a mail server or other
messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social-networking system
 160 and one or more client systems 130. An API-request server may allow a third-party system
 170 to access information from social-networking system 160 by calling one or more APIs. An
action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user's actions
on or off social-networking system 160. In conjunction with the action log, a third-party-content
object log may be maintained of user exposures to third-party-content objects. A notification
controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system 130. Information
may be pushed to a client system 130 as notifications, or information may be pulled from client

                                                   10
system 130 responsive to a request received from client system 130. Authorization servers may
be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social-networking system 160. A
privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be
shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions
logged by social-networking system 160 or shared with other systems (e.g., third-party system
 170), such as, for example, by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third-party-content-object
stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties, such as a third-party
system 170. Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client
systems 130 associated with users. Ad-pricing modules may combine social information, the
current   time, location information,      or other suitable     information    to provide relevant
advertisements, in the form of notifications, to a user.
        [27]    A geo-social-networking      system is a social-networking system in which
geographic services and capabilities are used to enable additional social interactions. User
submitted location data or geo-location techniques (e.g., mobile phone position logging) can
allow a geo-social network to connect and coordinate users with local people or events that
match their interests. For example, users can check-in to a place using a mobile client application
by providing a name of a place (or selecting a place from a pre-established list of places). The
geo-social-networking system, among other things, can record information about the user's
presence at the place and possibly provide this information to other users of the geo-social
networking system.
        [28]    A social-networking system 160 may maintain a data store 164 of information
relating to geographic locations or places. Places may correspond to various physical locations,
such as restaurants, bars, businesses, train stations, and airports. A social-networking system 160
may allow users to access information regarding each place using a client application (e.g., a web
browser 132) hosted by a client system 130, such as a mobile device. In addition to user profile
and place information, the social-networking system 160 may log or maintain other information
about the user. For example, the social-networking system may support geo-social-networking
system functionality including one or more location-based services that record the user's
location. For example, users may access the geo-social-networking system using a special-

                                                  11
purpose client application hosted by a client system 130. The client system 130 may
automatically access GPS, cellular triangulation, or other geo-location functions supported by the
client system 130 and report the user's current location to the geo-social-networking system. A
check-in to a given place may occur when a user is physically located at a place and, using a
client system 130, access the geo-social-networking system to register the user's presence at the
place. A user may select a place from a list of existing places near to the user's current location
or create a new place. The user may also identify one or more other users in connection with a
check-in (such as friends of a user) and associate them with the check-in as well. For example, a
record of the user's check-in activity may be stored in a data store 164.
        [29]    Still further, a special purpose client application hosted on a mobile device of a
user may be configured to continuously capture location data of the mobile device and send the
location data to the social-networking system. In this manner, the social-networking system may
log the user's location.
        [30]    In particular embodiments, a data store 164 associated with social-networking
system 160 may store an information base of places, where each place includes a name, a
geographic location and meta information (such as the user that initially created the place, check
in activity data, and the like). For example, a geographic location of an Internet connected
computer or computing device can be identified by the assigned Internet Protocol (IP) address.
For example, a geographic location of a cell phone equipped with cellular, Wi-Fi and/or GPS
capabilities can be identified by cell tower triangulation, Wi-Fi positioning, and/or GPS
positioning. In particular embodiments, the data store 164 may store a geographic location and
additional information of a plurality of places. For example, a place can be a local business, a
point of interest (e.g., Union Square in San Francisco, CA), a college, a city, or a national park.
For example, a geographic location of a place (e.g., a local coffee shop) can be an address, a set
of geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude), or a reference to another place (e.g., "the
coffee shop next to the train station"). For example, a geographic location of a place with a large
area (e.g., Yosemite National Park) can be a shape (e.g., a circle, or a polygon) approximating
the boundary of the place and/or a centroid of the shape. For example, additional information of
a place can be business hours or photographs of the place. In particular embodiments, the social-

                                                 12
networking system 160 may calculate one or more routes of a user based on the user's user
profile information, check-in activities, and/or geographic location data reported by a client
application (see above) and store the one or more routes. For example, the social-networking
system can calculate a "commute route" of a user between the user's home and work by using a
mapping service application, or by using geographic location data points from the user's GPS
equipped mobile phone while the user is driving to work.
        [31]    In particular embodiments, a mobile device (e.g., client system 130) may include
hardware, firmware, and software. FIGURE 2 illustrates an example mobile-device client system
 130. In particular embodiments, client system 130 may be a smart phone (e.g., iPhone or
Blackberry), which is a mobile telephone that offers more advanced computing ability and
connectivity than a traditional mobile phone. It may be considered as a handheld computer
integrated with a mobile phone. In particular embodiments, client system 130 may be a netbook
or tablet computer (e.g., iPad). In particular embodiments, client system 130 may be connected
to a network through a wireless connection.
        [32]    In particular embodiments, client system 130 may include hardware 210 and
software 220. In particular embodiments, hardware 210 may include any number of hardware
components such as, for example and without limitation, processor 211, memory 212, storage
213, transceiver 214, input/output device 215 (e.g., display, touch screen, keypad, microphone,
speaker, etc.), camera 216, global positioning system (GPS) sensor 217, sensors hub 218,
notification control switch 219, radio frequency identification (RFID) reader 241, radio
frequency (RF) sensor 242, and so on. This disclosure contemplates any suitable hardware
components. In particular embodiments, some or all of a user's user data may be stored in
storage 213.
        [33]    In particular embodiments, software 220 may include an operating system 221,
which may include a kernel 231 and/or any number of device drivers 232 corresponding to some
of the hardware components available on client system 130. Operating system 221 may be
selected for client system 130 based on the actual type of device client system 130 is. For
example, if client system 130 is a mobile device (e.g., a smart phone), then operating system 221
may be a mobile operating system such as, for example and without limitation, Microsoft's

                                                 13
Windows Mobile, Google's Android, Nokia's Symbian, Apple's iOS, and Samsung's Bada.
         [34]    In particular embodiments, one or more software applications 223 may be
executed on client system 130. In particular embodiments, they may be native applications
installed and residing on client system 130. For example, one application (e.g., Google Maps)
may enable a device user to view a map, search for addresses and businesses, and get directions;
a second application may enable the device user to read, send, and receive emails; a third
application (e.g., a web browser) may enable the device user to browse and search the Internet; a
fourth application may enable the device user to take photos or record videos using camera 216;
a fifth application may allow the device user to receive and initiate VoIP and/or cellular network
calls, and so on. In particular embodiments, there may be a software application (e.g.,
notification control 241) that enables the device user to manage the notifications pushed to client
system 130. Notification control 241 is described in more detail below. Each software
application 220 may have a user interface and may implement one or more specific
functionalities. Each software application 220 may include one or more software modules
implementing the individual functionalities. The executable code of software applications 220,
including notification control 241, may be stored in a computer-readable and non-transitory
medium (e.g., storage 213 or memory 212) on mobile device 130.
         [35]    FIGURE 3 illustrates an example method for predicting the future user state of a
user of a mobile device. The method may start at step 310, where the system accesses data
associated with a mobile-computing-device (e.g., client system 130) usage by a user. In
particular embodiments, this data may be stored by the social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, this data may be a unique identifier of the client system 130 or a unique
identifier of an application on the client system 130. In particular embodiments, this data may be
the Internet Protocol (IP) address of the client system 130. In particular embodiments, this data
may be the local time reported by the client system 130. In particular embodiments this data may
be the current location or a vector of movement of the client system 130. The location and the
vector of movement can be determined via GPS, assisted GPS, cellular triangulation, or any
other suitable manner of obtaining the location or vector of movement.

                                                 14
        [36]    At step 320, the system accesses data associated with the past user states of the
user. The past user state may be a temporal, spatial, modal, or social accessibility of the user. In
particular embodiments, this data may be stored by the social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, a past user state may be commuting to and from the user's place of
employment. This state would have temporal, spatial, modal, and social aspects relevant to the
user. In particular embodiments, the past user state may be attending an event stored by the
social-networking system 160. In particular embodiments, the past user state may be traveling in
a geographic area connected to information stored by the social-networking system 160. For
instance, the user may have posted a status update indicating that the user was on vacation at a
time proximate to the user's mobile computing device indicating a location in Hawaii. In
particular embodiments, the past user state may be determined from data associated with one of
the user's contacts stored by the social-networking system 160. For instance, the user's contact
may have previously saved check-in activity data indicating the user and a location. In particular
embodiments, the past user state may be connected to the client system 130 currently in use by
the user. For instance, the past user state may be that the user was in transit at a time proximate
to a received unique client-system identifier indicating that the client system 130 is an in-car
navigation unit. As another example, the past user state may be that the user was "working"
when the client system 130 was a specific laptop, or that the user was "busy" when the client
system 130 was a mobile gaming device.
        [37]    At step 330, the system predicts a future user state and future client system 130
usage by the user at a future time. In particular embodiments the social-networking system 160
may use a number of geo-social factors. For example, the social-networking system 160 may
have developed a dataset of connected user states and client system usage data points by cross
referencing stored data. The social-networking system 160 may also have access to current time
or location data for the client system 130. Additionally, the social-networking system 160 may
also have stored data concerning future events and calendar appointments of the user. The social
networking system 160 may use one or more of the data accessed in steps 310 and 320 to
algorithmically predict future user states.

                                                   15
         [38]    In particular embodiments, the system may use regression analysis on some or all
of the data accessed in steps 310 or 320 to predict the future user state. In particular
embodiments, the system may use a linear regression of multiple independent variables to assign
probabilities to a number of possible states. An exemplar linear regression may be
 Y!=  #1Xui + #2Xi2  +...   3 Xi
                          + #,    wherein yi represents a possible future state chosen from a set of
past user states accessed in step 320, xin represents an independent variable, Bin represents a
weighting factor to be assigned to each variable, and where n spans the values 1 to p. In a
particular embodiment, the independent variables may be any of the types of data discussed
above in connection with step 310.
         [39]    In particular embodiments, the system may use a decision-tree analysis on some
or all of the data accessed in steps 310 or 320 to predict the future user state. The system may use
historical data to develop decision nodes and chance nodes of the decision tree to predict future
user states. For example, based on historical data, a certain combination of inputs may predict a
user state. If the future local time corresponds with past local times associated with the past user
state of "commuting", the current reported client system 130 is an in-car navigation unit, and the
current reported location of the client system 130 is on the known commuting path for the user,
the system may work through a decision tree to determine that the future user state of the user is
commuting to work for a given time period. In particular embodiments, the decision-tree analysis
may be desirable in a system with a small number of potential future user states. In particular
embodiments the decision-tree analysis may be combined with other prediction techniques.
         [40]    In particular embodiments, the system may use a neural-network analysis on some
or all of the data accessed in steps 310 or 320 to predict the future user state. For example, the
system may implement a supervised learning neural network to find a function mapping input
variables drawn from the data accessed in step 310 to user-states drawn from the data accessed in
step 320. The neural-networking analysis may try to minimize the mean-squared error between
the network's predicted user state and known past user states. By minimizing this error, the
network is able to develop an approximated function for predicting future user states.

                                                    16
         [41]    In particular embodiments, the system may use an expert-system analysis on some
or all of the data accessed in steps 310 or 320 to predict the future user state. The system may
build a knowledge base of the expert system based on historic data. For example, the system may
develop a rule that "IF the client system 130 is LaptopOO THEN user is at work". As another
example, the system may develop a rule that "IF the current location is Hawaii THEN the user is
on vacation". As another example, the system may develop a rule that "IF the current local time
is between 7PM and 6AM THEN the user is at home". By developing said knowledge base, the
system may then run input variables through the expert-system inference engine either in batches
or serially to predict future user states.
         [42]    This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of predicting a future user state
and utilizing any combination of factors accessed in steps 310 and 320 or weighting of factors in
the calculation of the predicted future user state.
         [43]    At step 340, the system adapts the operation of the client system 130 of the user at
a future time in response to the predicted future user state, at which point the method may end. In
particular embodiments, the predicted user state may be that the user will be travelling in a
geographic area. The system may adapt by pushing data relevant to the geographic area to the
client system 130. For example, if the predicted user state is that the user will be vacationing in
Hawaii, the system can push relevant data (e.g. weather information, travel advisories, restaurant
reviews, and taxi cab advertisements) to the client system 130. Some or all of the data can be
displayed as notifications to the user. Alternatively, some or all of the data can be cached on the
client system 130 and used to pre-populate suggested searches and suggested results, or reduce
future data usage by the client system 130.
         [44]    In particular embodiments, the system for predicting a future state of a mobile
device user as illustrated in FIGURE 3 may be associated with a social-networking system 160.
In this case, the social-networking system may implement the method illustrated in FIGURE 3
(e.g., as computer software) and use the method to predict the future user state of users who are
also members of the social-networking system 160.
         [45]    It may be desirable for a social-networking application on the client system 130 to
change its operation in response to the predicted user's state. In particular embodiments, the

                                                   17
system adapts the operation of the client system 130 by modifying the logical operation of a
social-networking application on the client system 130. For example, if the predicted future user
state is that the user is unavailable (e.g. on an airline flight, working, watching a film) then the
social-networking application on the user's client system 130 can be set to queue all notifications
to the user until the predicted future user state changes. As further example, if the predicted
future user state is that the user will be out at a public social setting (e.g. attending a birthday
party), the social networking application on the user's client system 130 can be set to launch a
camera application when accessed.
         [46]    In particular embodiments, the system adapts the operation of the client system
 130 by altering the characteristics of the data requested by the client system 130 and sent by the
social-networking system 160. In particular embodiments, it may be desirable for the social
networking system 160 to provide lower bandwidth services to the client system 130 when that
device is connected via certain types of links 150. For example, some telecommunications
providers offer data download limits and impose fees for exceeding those limits. As another
example, some telecommunications contracts charge increased fees for data transfer when
travelling in a foreign country. If the predicted future user state indicates that the client system
 130 will be connected via a link 150 associated with a data limit or increased fees, the social
networking system 160 may transmit lower bandwidth content. In particular embodiments, it
may be desirable to increase an interval at which the social-networking system 160 polls the
client system 130 to determine the device's location. For example, if the predicted future user
state is that the user will be at home, the social-networking system 160 may adapt by increasing
the polling interval to once every hour. By increasing the polling interval, it may be possible for
the social-networking system 160 to increase the battery life of the client system 130.
         [47]    Particular embodiments may repeat the steps of the method of FIGURE 3, where
appropriate. Moreover, although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the
method of FIGURE 3 as occurring in a particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
steps of the method of FIGURE 3 occurring in any suitable order. Furthermore, although this
disclosure describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or systems carrying out
particular steps of the method of FIGURE 3, this disclosure contemplates any suitable

                                                  18
combination of any suitable components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps of
the method of FIGURE 3.
         [48]   FIGURE 4 is a block diagram of an example function for predicting the future
user state. To predict a future user state 415, weights 405 are applied to predictor functions 410
and then combined to obtain a predicted future user state 415. Although FIGURE 4 shows three
predictor functions 410, any number of predictor functions can be employed in other
embodiments of the invention. Additionally, in the embodiment of FIGURE 4, the weighted
predictor functions 410 are combined linearly. In different embodiments, other forms of
combination may be used, including harmonic means, mean squares, and geometric means.
Additionally, multiple predicted future user states 415 with varying weights 405 may be
computed before adapting the operation of the client system 130 as described in method step
340.
         [49]   The system may comprise one or more predictor modules (e.g., an application)
that are responsible for computing a set predictor function, which predicts a future user state. As
discussed above, each predictor function may be any suitable method for predicting a future user
state. In some embodiments, the predictor function may be generated using a machine learned
algorithm that is trained using a user's historical activity associated with a specific user state.
Machine learning is a scientific discipline that is concerned with the design and development of
algorithms that allow computers to learn based on data. The computational analysis of machine
learning algorithms and their performance is a branch of theoretical computer science known as
computational learning theory. The desired goal is to improve the algorithms through experience
(e.g., by applying the data to the algorithms in order to "train" the algorithms). The data are thus
often referred to as "training data". Each predictor module thus provides a predictor function for
each of a set of possible future user states, where a predictor function may take as an input some
or all of the data accessed in method step 310 and then outputs a measure of the likelihood that
the user will have a predicted future user state.
         [50]   In some embodiments, one or more of the predictor functions may use a decay
factor in which the strength of the signal from a user's historical activity decays with time.
Moreover, different predictor functions may decay the historical activity at different rates. For

                                                 19
example, some types of predicted future user state, like commuting to work, indicate a more
persistent connection than other types of activity that indicate a more ephemeral connection, like
attending a non-recurring event (e.g. a wedding). Therefore, the predictor functions may decay
the effect of historical activity based on an understanding about how that past user state may
become less relevant over the passage of time. Various decay mechanisms may be used for this
purpose. For example, a predictor function may use a mathematical function, such as an
exponential decay, to decay the statistics about a predicted user state. In another embodiment, the
decay is implemented by selecting only those statistics about a user state that occurred within a
specific window of time, such as 24 hours or 30 days.
        [51]    FIGURE 5       illustrates an  example     computer    system 500.    In particular
embodiments, one or more computer systems 500 perform one or more steps of one or more
methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, one or more computer
systems 500 provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments,
software running on one or more computer systems 500 performs one or more steps of one or
more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated
herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems
500. Herein, reference to a computer system may encompass a computing device, where
appropriate. Moreover, reference to a computer system may encompass one or more computer
systems, where appropriate.
        [52]    This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems 500. This
disclosure contemplates computer system 500 taking any suitable physical form. As example and
not by way of limitation, computer system 500 may be an embedded computer system, a system
on-chip (SOC), a single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a computer-on
module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system, a laptop or notebook
computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of computer systems, a mobile
telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA),        a server, a tablet computer system, or a
combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate, computer system 500 may include one
or more computer systems 500; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple
machines; span multiple data centers; or reside in a cloud, which may include one or more cloud

                                                  20
components in one or more networks. Where appropriate, one or more computer systems 500
may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more
methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more
computer systems 500 may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or
more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems 500 may perform
at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or
illustrated herein, where appropriate.
         [53]   In particular embodiments, computer system 500 includes a processor 502,
memory 504, storage 506, an input/output (I/)        interface 508, a communication interface 510,
and a bus 512. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system
having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable
components in any suitable arrangement.
         [54]   In particular embodiments, processor 502 includes hardware for executing
instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of
limitation, to execute instructions, processor 502 may retrieve (or fetch) the instructions from an
internal register, an internal cache, memory 504, or storage 506; decode and execute them; and
then write one or more results to an internal register, an internal cache, memory 504, or storage
506. In particular embodiments, processor 502 may include one or more internal caches for data,
instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor 502 including any suitable
number of any suitable internal caches, where appropriate. As an example and not by way of
limitation, processor 502 may include one or more instruction caches, one or more data caches,
and one or more translation lookaside buffers (TLBs). Instructions in the instruction caches may
be copies of instructions in memory 504 or storage 506, and the instruction caches may speed up
retrieval of those instructions by processor 502. Data in the data caches may be copies of data in
memory 504 or storage 506 for instructions executing at processor 502 to operate on; the results
of previous instructions executed at processor 502 for access by subsequent instructions
executing at processor 502 or for writing to memory 504 or storage 506; or other suitable data.
The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor 502. The TLBs may speed

                                                21
up virtual-address translation for processor 502. In particular embodiments, processor 502 may
include one or more internal registers for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure
contemplates processor 502 including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers,
where appropriate. Where appropriate, processor 502 may include one or more arithmetic logic
units (ALUs); be a multi-core processor; or include one or more processors 502. Although this
disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable processor.
         [55]   In particular embodiments, memory 504 includes main memory for storing
instructions for processor 502 to execute or data for processor 502 to operate on. As an example
and not by way of limitation, computer system 500 may load instructions from storage 506 or
another source (such as, for example, another computer system 500) to memory 504. Processor
502 may then load the instructions from memory 504 to an internal register or internal cache. To
execute the instructions, processor 502 may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or
internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions, processor 502 may
write one or more results (which may be intermediate or final results) to the internal register or
internal cache. Processor 502 may then write one or more of those results to memory 504. In
particular embodiments, processor 502 executes only instructions in one or more internal
registers or internal caches or in memory 504 (as opposed to storage 506 or elsewhere) and
operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory 504 (as
opposed to storage 506 or elsewhere). One or more memory buses (which may each include an
address bus and a data bus) may couple processor 502 to memory 504. Bus 512 may include one
or more memory buses, as described below. In particular embodiments, one or more memory
management units (MMUs) reside between processor 502 and memory 504 and facilitate
accesses to memory 504 requested by processor 502. In particular embodiments, memory 504
includes random access memory (RAM). This RAM may be volatile memory, where appropriate
Where appropriate, this RAM may be dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM).
Moreover, where appropriate, this RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM. This
disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory 504 may include one or more memories

                                                   22
504, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.
         [56]    In particular embodiments, storage 506 includes mass storage for data or
instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage 506 may include a hard disk
drive (HDD), a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto-optical disc,
magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or a combination of two or more of these.
Storage 506 may include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate.
Storage 506 may be internal or external to computer system 500, where appropriate. In particular
embodiments, storage 506 is non-volatile, solid-state memory. In particular embodiments,
storage 506 includes read-only memory (ROM). Where appropriate, this ROM may be mask
programmed ROM, programmable ROM (PROM), erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically
erasable PROM (EEPROM), electrically alterable ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a
combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage 506 taking any
suitable physical form. Storage 506 may include one or more storage control units facilitating
communication between processor 502 and storage 506, where appropriate. Where appropriate,
storage 506 may include one or more storages 506. Although this disclosure describes and
illustrates particular storage, this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.
         [57]    In particular embodiments, I/O interface 508 includes hardware, software, or both
providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system 500 and one or
more 1/0 devices. Computer system 500 may include one or more of these 1/0 devices, where
appropriate. One or more of these I/O devices may enable communication between a person and
computer system 500. As an example and not by way of limitation, an 1/0 device may include a
keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still camera, stylus,
tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera, another suitable 1/0 device or a combination of two
or more of these. An 1/0 device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates
any suitable I/O devices and any suitable 1/0 interfaces 508 for them. Where appropriate, 1/0
interface 508 may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor 502 to
drive one or more of these 1/0 devices. 1/0 interface 508 may include one or more 1/0 interfaces

                                                 23
508, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I/O
interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable 1/0 interface.
        [58]     In particular embodiments, communication interface 510 includes hardware,
software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such as, for example,
packet-based communication) between computer system 500 and one or more other computer
systems 500 or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation,
communication interface 510 may include a network interface controller (NIC) or network
adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network or a wireless NIC
(WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network, such as a WI-FI
network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication
interface 510 for it. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system 500 may
communicate with an ad hoc network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network
(LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more
portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or
more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example, computer system 500 may
communicate with a wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a
WI-FI network, a WI-MAX network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for example, a
Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network), or other suitable wireless network
or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system 500 may include any suitable
communication interface 510 for any of these networks, where appropriate. Communication
interface 510 may include one or more communication interfaces 510, where appropriate.
Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.
        [59]     In particular embodiments, bus 512 includes hardware, software, or both coupling
components of computer system 500 to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation,
bus 512 may include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or other graphics bus, an Enhanced
Industry Standard Architecture (EISA) bus, a front-side bus (FSB), a HYPERTRANSPORT
(HT) interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND interconnect,
a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, a

                                                   24
Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express (PCIe) bus, a serial advanced
technology attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB) bus,
or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus 512 may include one or
more buses 512, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular
bus, this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.
Further Embodiments
         [60]   One embodiment provides a method comprising, by one or more computing
devices:
        accessing first data associated with mobile-computing-device usage by a user;
        accessing second data associated with past user states of the user, a user state of the user
comprising a temporal, spatial, modal, or social accessibility of the user; and
        predicting, based at least in part on the first and second data, a future user state of the user
at a future time; and
        adapting the operation of a mobile computing device of the user at the future time to the
future user state and further comprising:
                predicting, based at least in part on the first and second data, a future mobile
        computing-device usage by the user at a future time; and
                 adapting network interaction with a mobile computing device of the user at the
        future time to the future mobile-computing-device usage,
                wherein the first data comprises at least one of:
                        an identifier of the mobile computing device;
                        an identifier of an application on the mobile computing device;
                        an Internet Protocol (IP) address of the mobile computing device;
                        a location of the mobile computing device
                        a vector of movement of the mobile computing device; and
                        a local time reported by the mobile computing device.
         [61]   In one arrangement:
        the user is a user of a social-networking system; and

                                                  25
        adapting the operation of the mobile computing device comprises requesting interaction
by the mobile computing device with the social-networking system.
        [62]    In one arrangement:
        the future user state of the user comprises the user traveling within a geographical area at
the future time; and
        requesting interaction by the mobile computing device with the social-networking system
comprises automatically       selecting social-networking    information to push to the mobile
computing device of the user relevant to the user traveling within the geographical area.
        [63]    In one arrangement:
        the future user state of the user comprises a location and an activity of the user; and
        requesting interaction by the mobile computing device with the social-networking system
comprises modifying one or more logical operations of a social-networking application on the
mobile computing device relevant to the location and activity of the user for access by the user at
the future time.
        [64]    In one arrangement, adapting the operation of the mobile computing device
comprises modifying the interaction of a telecommunications network with the mobile
computing device to provide wireless connectivity to the mobile computing device.
        [65]    In one arrangement:
        the future user state of the user comprises the user commuting; and
        adapting the operation of the mobile computing device comprises requesting content with
lower bandwidth requirements for transmission to the mobile computing device while the user is
commuting.
        [66]    In one arrangement:
        the future user state of the user comprises a location of the user; and
        adapting the operation of the mobile computing device comprises reducing polling of the
mobile computing device for its location.

                                                   26
        [67]    In one arrangement, the future time is proximate to a current time.
        [68]    In one arrangement:
        the user is a user of a social-networking system, the social-networking system comprising
a graph that comprises a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes, at least one node in
the graph corresponding to the user; and
        the second data comprises social-networking information from the graph associated with
the user.
        [69]    In one arrangement, predicting the future user state of the user comprises:
        regression analysis of the first or second data;
        decision-tree analysis of the first or second data;
        neural-network analysis of the first or second data; or
        expert-system analysis of the first or second data.
        [70]    Another embodiment provides one or more computer-readable non-transitory
storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to perform a method
according to the above embodiment.
        [71]    A further embodiment provides a system comprising:
        one or more processors; and
        a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the
processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to:
                access first data associated with mobile-computing-device usage by a user;
                access second data associated with past user states of the user, a user state of the
        user comprising a temporal, spatial, modal, or social accessibility of the user;
                predict, based at least in part on the first and second data, a future user state of the
        user at a future time; and
                adapt the operation of a mobile computing device of the user at the future time to
        the future user state
        and/or     to    perform     a    method      according     to   the    above     embodiment.

                                                 27
Miscellaneous
         [72]   Herein, a computer-readable non-transitory storage medium or media may include
one or more semiconductor-based or other integrated circuits (ICs) (such, as for example, field
programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) or application-specific ICs (ASICs)), hard disk drives
(HDDs), hybrid hard drives (HHDs), optical discs, optical disc drives (ODDs), magneto-optical
discs, magneto-optical drives, floppy diskettes, floppy disk drives (FDDs), magnetic tapes, solid
state drives (SSDs), RAM-drives, SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives, any other suitable
computer-readable non-transitory storage media, or any suitable combination of two or more of
these, where appropriate. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium may be volatile,
non-volatile, or a combination of volatile and non-volatile, where appropriate.
         [73]   Herein, "or" is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated otherwise
or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A or B" means "A, B, or both," unless
expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover, "and" is both joint
and several, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore,
herein, "A and B" means "A and B, jointly or severally," unless expressly indicated otherwise or
indicated otherwise by context.
         [74]   The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations,
alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a
person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not
limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover, although this
disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular
components, elements, functions, operations, or steps, any of these embodiments may include
any combination or permutation of any of the components, elements, functions, operations, or
steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would
comprehend. Furthermore, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a
component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to, capable of, configured to,
enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus,
system, component, whether or not it or that particular function is activated, turned on, or
unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or component is so adapted, arranged, capable,
configured, enabled, operable, or operative.

                                                 28
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
        1. A method comprising, by one or more computing devices:
        accessing current usage information of a mobile device associated with a user;
        determining a future user state of the user based on a set of predictor functions, wherein
the predictor functions calculate a probability of the future user state based on a set of weights
and a set of decay factors determined from one or more past user states; and
        sending, to the mobile device associated with the user, instructions for adapting an
operation of the mobile device corresponding to the determined future user state.
        2. The method of Claim 1, wherein each of the set of predictor functions comprises a
machine-learning algorithm trained for a particular user state.
        3. The method of either one of Claim 1 and Claim 2, wherein the set of decay factors
comprise one or more of:
        a time decay factor;
        an exponential decay factor; or
        a decay factor based on statistics associated with a user state within a particular time
window.
        4. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein calculating the probability of the
future user state comprises:
        weighting each of the set of predictor functions using a distinct weight from the set of
weights;
        combining the weighted predictor functions; and
        calculating the probability of the future user state based on the combined weighted
predictor functions and the one or more past user states of the user.

                                                 29
         5. The method of Claim 4, wherein combining the weighted predictor functions is based
on one or more of:
         a linear combination;
         a harmonic means;
        mean squares; or
         a geometric means.
         6. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein:
        the user is a user of an online social network that comprises a plurality of nodes and a
plurality of edges connecting the nodes, at least one node in the online social network
corresponding to the user; and
        the one or more past user states of the user comprise social-networking information from
the online social network associated with the user.
         7. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 6, wherein the one or more past user states of
the user comprise one or more of temporal, spatial, modal, or social accessibility of the user.
         8. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein the determined future user state is
associated with the user traveling within a geographical area.
        9. The method of any one of Claims I to 7, wherein the determined future user state is
associated with a future mobile-device usage by the user.
         10. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 9, wherein the instructions for adapting the
operation of the mobile device comprise instructions for adapting network interaction with the
mobile device at a future time corresponding to the determined future user state.
         11. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 9, wherein the instructions for adapting the
operation of the mobile device comprise instructions for modifying an interaction of a

                                                   30
telecommunications network with the mobile device to provide wireless connectivity to the
mobile device.
         12. The method of any one of Claims I to 9, wherein the instructions for adapting the
operation of the mobile device comprise instructions for adapting network interaction with the
mobile device, the adapting comprising automatically selecting social-networking information to
push to the mobile device of the user, wherein the social-networking information is relevant to
the determined future user state.
         13. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 12, wherein:
        the user is a user of an online social network; and
        the instructions for adapting the operation of the mobile device comprise instructions for
requesting interaction by the mobile device with a server of the online social network.
         14. The method of Claim 13, wherein:
        the determined future user state of the user comprises the user traveling within a
geographical area at a future time; and
        the instructions for requesting interaction by the mobile device with the server comprise
instructions for automatically selecting social-networking information to push to the mobile
device of the user relevant to the user traveling within the geographical area.
         15. The method of Claim 13, wherein:
        the determined future user state of the user comprises a location and an activity of the
user; and
        the instructions for requesting interaction by the mobile device with the server comprise
instructions for modifying one or more logical operations of a social-networking application on
the mobile device relevant to the location and activity of the user for access by the user at a
future time.

                                                   31
         16. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 15, wherein:
         the determined future user state of the user comprises the user commuting; and
         the instructions for adapting the operation of the mobile device comprise instructions for
requesting content with lower bandwidth requirements for transmission to the mobile device
while the user is commuting.
         17. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 15, wherein:
         the determined future user state of the user comprises a location of the user; and
         the instructions for adapting the operation of the mobile device comprise instructions for
reducing polling of the mobile device for its location.
         18. The method of any one of Claims I to 17, wherein the current usage information of
the mobile device comprises one or more of:
         an identifier of the mobile device;
         an identifier of an application on the mobile device;
         an Internet Protocol (IP) address of the mobile device;
         a location of the mobile device;
         a vector of movement of the mobile device; or
         a local time reported by the mobile device.
          19. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software
that is operable when executed to:
         access current usage information of a mobile device associated with a user;
         determine a future user state of the user based on a set of predictor functions, wherein the
predictor functions calculate a probability of the future user state based on a set of weights and a
set of decay factors determined from one or more past user states; and
         send, to the mobile device associated with the user, instructions for adapting an operation
of the mobile device corresponding to the determined future user state.

                                                  32
        20. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the
processors comprising instructions executable by the processors, the processors operable when
executing the instructions to:
        access current usage information of a mobile device associated with a user;
        determine a future user state of the user based on a set of predictor functions, wherein the
predictor functions calculate a probability of the future user state based on a set of weights and a
set of decay factors determined from one or more past user states; and
        send, to the mobile device associated with the user, instructions for adapting an operation
of the mobile device corresponding to the determined future user state.
                                       Facebook, Inc.
                               By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                    QCOTTERS
                                  Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
