(51' Antitrust on optical insile t for pmoduaci n optical Inde to No viewed! by aon orer. the dpi                              iNotanca
  cmrisi8 an opior I system or1 poducing Mnoptil hmeor alt, objec mi,k is vib1                  by an ohrver It an'I ei u i an,
mili         01ich i    n. M~'Cs loae msa rm rg le 0f owt oiai o~el, for prodint; Not an rry or exit pui ftoll wreNeedednbl oI a
  min, eonrl yai prilr by [hie okiee wheri her difhwlw indent Compminly a Nfac lia is an tary of difrac
   wmt, door of vvinii Validity wn or hi exit pa~io the otnly of esiupils, the dionew,          nt s eao conrsig f] jostita of a
hatr ofaI Phai ofSered mres Which, Noeffiecive tNpitc di~acri interfere y oflil anherae                                a0btok phniy afexI
hppis io Nedinplced rie              to No, mire in Nhe fonto by nony oftsot pretty, o, is, to be broidbe i a aingle, cmril
  on, enlargexit pipil.did tire teas compie inrreia tur               f Inferent site,, both i wizei        mot eri         chtoon. wbje
bids curved sufaes at floodteraldcs, thereof; di inh di tv tusits amediesm fodprresivl r.. dialbely nuiwardly ry eop
 dia axi, of the d I i ieu elenteut mid caon igtd poyesivly to provi Nor "n wcmsiu..g otins offer. aui Aim. ltede,
of blaied ,n the aperoure of tle dilliiv                           mlmn iJ .t lay rslay cii            driigm if gt Trom these Neede mage is shared
Ina IolonIot, Newion of a mes Niw pae aeosse Nema 'Ithe difiitehw chyrivL

WO 2014/056632                     PCT/EP20131057715
                           2/5
                  4(/N
                       10O
                               CY)
                               V.
                               CY)
        mC\                                   C\
          04(
               0))

WO 2014/056632                                                 PCT/EP20131057715
                                      1
 OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS
 The present invention relates to optical instruments, especially microscopes,
 in particular optical instruments which have an exit pupil at which an image
 of an object may be viewed by an observer, and diffractive optical elements
 for use with the same.
 In conventional optical instruments, the size of the exit pupil is determined
 by a function of the numerical aperture and overall magnification of the
 optical instrument, and hence the size of the exit pupil is of fixed and
 relatively-small dimension. Consequently, it is necessary for an observer to
 accurately align the entrance pupil of his/her eye with the exit pupil of the
 optical instrument in order properly to view an image.
 The present applicant has previously developed a number of different optical
 instruments which, through the provision of a diffractive element at an
 intermediate image plane, provide an exit pupil which is effectively enlarged,
 allowing an observer to view an image by placing his/her eye anywhere
 within the enlarged exit pupil.    These optical instruments are disclosed in
 US-A-6028704, US-A-6608720, US-A-7123415 and GB-A-2360604. Another
 optical instrument which incorporates an exit pupil expander is disclosed in
 US-A-2005/0237615.
 The present applicant has now developed improved optical instruments,
 which still provide an exit pupil which is effectively enlarged, but which can
 provide for greater optical clarity and also avoid the need for a field lens
 arrangement, which, given the size of the field of view, usually represents
 the most expensive component within the optical instruments, being a
 precision-ground and polished glass component.
 In one aspect the present invention provides an optical instrument for
 producing an optical image to be viewed by an observer, the optical
 instrument comprising: an optical system for producing an optical image of

WO 2014/056632                                                 PCT/EP20131057715
                                        2
 an object which is viewable by an observer at an exit pupil; and a diffractive
 element located at an image plane of the optical system for producing an
 array of the exit pupils, which are perceivable as a single, enlarged exit pupil
 by the observer; wherein the diffractive element comprises a surface which
 has an array of diffractive units, each of which generates one of the exit
 pupils of the array of exit pupils, the diffractive units each comprising
 replications of a pattern of a plurality of separated areas which are effective
 to produce diffractive interference of light and generate a plurality of exit
 pupils which are displaced relative to one another in the form of an array of
 exit pupils, such as to be viewable as a single, continuous enlarged exit
 pupil, and the areas comprise irregular features of different sizes, both in
 horizontal and vertical section, which have curved surfaces at lateral faces
 thereof; wherein the diffractive units are disposed progressively radially
 outwardly from the optical axis of the diffractive element and configured
 progressively to provide for an increasing angular offset, such that,
 independent of location on the aperture of the diffractive element, light from
 the received image is relayed to a common region on a viewing plane across
 the aperture of the diffractive element.
 In another aspect the present invention provides an optical instrument for
 producing an optical image to be viewed by an observer, the optical
 instrument comprising: an optical system for producing an optical image of
 an object which is viewable by an observer at an exit pupil; and a diffractive
 element located at an image plane of the optical system for producing an
 array of the exit pupils, which are perceivable as a single, enlarged exit pupil
 by the observer; wherein the diffractive element comprises a surface which
 has an array of diffractive units, each of which generates one of the exit
 pupils of the array of exit pupils, the diffractive units each comprising
 replications of a pattern of a plurality of separated areas which are effective
 to produce diffractive interference of light and generate a plurality of exit
 pupils which are displaced relative to one another in the form of an array of
 exit pupils, such as to be viewable as a single, continuous enlarged exit
 pupil, and the areas comprise irregular features of different sizes, both in

WO 2014/056632                                                 PCT/EP20131057715
                                        3
 horizontal and vertical section, which have curved surfaces at lateral faces
 thereof.
 In one embodiment the diffractive element is configured to relay light from
 the received image to a common region on a viewing plane across the
 aperture of the diffractive element.
 In one embodiment the diffractive units are disposed progressively radially
 outwardly from the optical axis of the diffractive element and configured
 progressively to provide for an increasing angular offset, such that,
 independent of location on the aperture of the diffractive element, light from
 the received image is relayed to the common region on the viewing plane.
 In one embodiment the progressively-increasing angular offset is provided
 by providing the areas within each diffractive unit of different radial position
 with different size, shape and position.
 In one embodiment the diffractive units provide for relaying of light from the
 received image to the common region on the viewing plane without any
 relay lens arrangement.
 In   one embodiment       the  surface   of the  diffractive element is    on a
 substantially flat plane.
 In one embodiment the curved surfaces at the lateral faces of the areas
 comprise frusto-conical or frusto-cylindrical surfaces and/or the lateral faces
 of the areas within each diffractive unit include both inwardly and outwardly
 curved sections.
 In one embodiment the lateral faces of the areas within each diffractive unit
 are tilted or inclined, optionally as a rectilinear surface, tapering inwardly
 away from the surface of the diffractive element.

WO 2014/056632                                                 PCT/EP20131057715
                                        4
 In one embodiment the areas are projections which extend from the surface
 of the diffractive element and/or depressions which extend into the surface
 of the diffractive element.
In one embodiment the replications of the patterns of areas have a pitch of
from about 40 pm to about 100 pm or from about 60 pm to about 100 pm.
In one embodiment the areas each have one or more surfaces at an upper
surface thereof which are substantially parallel to the surface of the
diffractive element, inclined to the surface of the diffractive element and/or
arcuate.
 In one embodiment the upper surface of each of the areas has a curved
 peripheral edge.
 In one embodiment the areas each have an average dimension of from
 about 1 pm to about 10 pm.
 In one embodiment the optical instrument is a microscope.
 Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described
 hereinbelow by way of example only with reference to the accompanying
 drawings, in which:
 Figure   1 illustrates    an optical instrument in accordance      with  a first
 embodiment of the present invention;
 Figure   2(a)   illustrates an elevational view of a diffractive element in
 accordance with one embodiment of the optical instrument of Figure 1;
 Figure 2(b) illustrates a perspective view of one diffractive unit (represented
 by sections A in Figure 2(a)) of the diffractive element of Figure 2(a);

WO 2014/056632                                                  PCT/EP20131057715
                                        5
Figure 2(c) illustrates a plan view of the one diffractive unit of Figure 2(b);
Figure 2(d) illustrates a vertical sectional view (along section I-I in Figure
2(c)) of the diffractive element of Figure 2(a);
Figure 3 illustrates an optical instrument in accordance with a second
embodiment of the present invention; and
Figure 4 illustrates the expansion and beam steering provided by the
diffractive units of the diffractive element of the optical instrument of Figure
3.
 Figure 1 illustrates a microscope in accordance with a first embodiment of
the present invention, in this embodiment a projection microscope.
The microscope comprises an objective lens 3 for producing a primary image
 in an image plane, here a primary image plane PIP, of an object at an object
 plane OP, in this embodiment as defined by an aperture stop 5.
 In this embodiment the microscope further comprises a projection lens 7
 which images the primary image of the objective lens 3 to an image plane,
 here a secondary image plane SIP, and produces an image of the aperture
 of the objective lens 3 at the ray vertex 9 of the projection lens 7.
 The microscope further comprises a field lens arrangement 11, in this
 embodiment comprising a pair of field lenses 15, 17, for relaying the exit
 pupil to a viewing plane VP, such as to be viewable by an eye of an
 observer.
 The   microscope     further  comprises   a diffractive   element    25,  in   this
 embodiment a transmissive element, which is located at the secondary
  image plane SIP, here intermediate the field lenses 15, 17 of the field lens
  arrangement 11, and is effective to produce an array of exit pupils, each

WO 2014/056632                                                 PCT/EP20131057715
                                      6
 corresponding to the exit pupil which would be produced in the absence of
 the diffractive element 25.
 Through suitable design, the diffractive element 25 can be configured to
 provide that the exit pupils in the array of exit pupils are spaced apart or in
 contact, and the configuration is chosen such that the array of exit pupils
 appears to the eye of the observer in effect as a single, continuous enlarged
 exit pupil.
 In one embodiment, as illustrated in Figures 2(a) to (d), the diffractive
 element 25 comprises a principal surface 27 which has an array of diffractive
 units 29, each of which generates one of the exit pupils of the array of exit
 pupils. The profile and form of the individual diffractive units 29 determines
 the comparative light energy within each of the individual pupil images.
 In this embodiment the diffractive units 29 comprise replications of a pattern
 of a plurality of separated areas 31 which are effective to produce diffractive
 interference of light passing therethrough and generate a plurality of exit
 pupils which are displaced relative to one another in the form of an array of
 exit pupils, such as to be viewable as a single, continuous enlarged exit
 pupil.
 In this embodiment the areas 31 comprise irregular features of different
 sizes, both in horizontal and vertical section, which have arcuate or curved
 surfaces at lateral faces 33 thereof, here frusto-conical or frusto-cylindrical
 surfaces. These features can vary in size but typically are in the range of
 about 1 pm to about 10 pm.
 In this embodiment the lateral faces 33 of the areas 31 within each
 diffractive unit 29 include both inwardly and outwardly curved sections.
 In this embodiment the lateral faces 33 are tilted or inclined, tapering
 inwardly away from the surface 27 of the diffractive element 25.

WO 2014/056632                                                  PCT/EP20131057715
                                       7
In this embodiment the areas 31 are projections which extend from the
surface 27 of the diffractive element 25. In an alternative embodiment the
areas 31 could comprise depressions which extend into the surface 27 of the
diffractive element.
In this embodiment the replications of the patterns of areas 31 have a pitch
of about 80 pm.      In other embodiments the replications of the patterns of
areas 31 can have a pitch of from about 40 pm to about 100 pm.
 In this embodiment the areas 31 each have one or more surfaces at an
 upper surface 35 thereof. In this embodiment the one or more surfaces are
 substantially parallel to the surface 27 of the diffractive element 25, but
 could alternatively be inclined to the surface 27 of the diffractive element 25
 or arcuate.
In this embodiment the upper surface 35 of each of the areas 31 has a
curved peripheral edge 37, here around its entirety.
 In this embodiment the areas 31          are formed    by the patterning and
 development of an actinic photoresist.      In one embodiment the pattern is
 formed by direct writing a pattern,        using a combination of controlled
 electron beam and laser ablation, into actinic photoresist.
 With this configuration, the microscope provides a single, enlarged exit pupil
 having an effective size corresponding to the array of exit pupils, and the
 array of exit pupils have desired optical characteristics, particularly in
 providing for uniform energy distribution of a polychromatic image.
 Figure 3 illustrates a microscope in accordance with a second embodiment of
 the present invention.

WO 2014/056632                                                 PCT/EP20131057715
                                      8
 The microscope of this embodiment is similar to the microscope of the first
 described    embodiment,     and  thus,  in  order  to   avoid   duplication    of
 description, only the differences will be described in detail with like parts
 designating like reference signs.
 The    microscope    of this   embodiment   differs from   the   first-described
 embodiment in that the field lens arrangement 11 is omitted, and instead
 the diffractive element 25 is configured to relay light from the received
 image to a common region on the viewing plane VP across the aperture of
 the diffractive element 25, in this embodiment centered on the optical axis
 of the diffractive element 25.
 In this embodiment the diffractive units 29 which are disposed progressively
 radially outwardly from the optical axis of the diffractive element 25 are
 configured progressively to provide for an increasing angular offset, such
 that, independent of location on the diffractive element 25, light from the
 received image is relayed to a common region.          Figure 4 illustrates the
 expansion and beam steering provided by the diffractive units 29.
 In this embodiment the progressively-increasing angular offset is provided
 by the sizing, shaping and positioning of the areas 31 within each diffractive
 unit 29.   This sizing, shaping and positioning is determined by conventional
 diffractive principles, and modelled, such as by Zemax (Radiant Zemax,
 Redmond,     USA) or LightTrans VirtualLab (Jenoptik Optical Systems, W.
 Henrietta, USA).
 Finally, it will be understood that the present invention has been described
 in its preferred embodiments and can be modified in many different ways
 without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the
 appended claims.

WO 2014/056632                                              PCT/EP20131057715
                                      9
 For example, in the described embodiments the diffractive element 25 is a
 transmissive element, but it will be understood that the diffractive element
 25 could be provided as a reflective element.

WO 2014/056632                                                     PCT/EP20131057715
                                         10
CLAIMS
 1.    An optical instrument for producing an optical image to be viewed by
       an observer, the optical instrument comprising:
       an optical system for producing an optical image of an object which is
       viewable by an observer at an exit pupil; and
       a diffractive element located at an image plane of the optical system
       for producing an array of exit pupils, which are perceivable as a
       single, enlarged exit pupil by the observer;
       wherein the diffractive element comprises a surface which has an
       array of diffractive units, each of which generates one of the exit
        pupils of the array of exit pupils, the diffractive units each comprising
        replications of a pattern of a plurality of separated areas which are
        effective to produce diffractive interference of light and generate a
        plurality of exit pupils which are displaced relative to one another in
        the form of an array of exit pupils, such as to be viewable as a single,
        continuous enlarged exit pupil, and the areas comprise irregular
        features of different sizes, both in horizontal and vertical section,
        which have curved surfaces at lateral faces thereof;
        wherein    the  diffractive units are disposed progressively radially
        outwardly from the        optical axis of the     diffractive element and
        configured progressively to provide for an increasing angular offset,
        such that, independent of location on the aperture of the diffractive
        element and without any relay lens arrangement, light from the
        received image is relayed to a common region on a viewing plane
        across the aperture of the diffractive element.
 2.     An optical instrument for producing an optical image to be viewed by
        an observer, the optical instrument comprising:
        an optical system for producing an optical image of an object which is
        viewable by an observer at an exit pupil; and

WO 2014/056632                                                    PCT/EP20131057715
                                       11
       a diffractive element located at an image plane of the optical system
       for producing an array of exit pupils, which are perceivable as a
       single, enlarged exit pupil by the observer;
       wherein the diffractive element comprises a surface which has an
       array of diffractive units, each of which generates one of the exit
        pupils of the array of exit pupils, the diffractive units each comprising
        replications of a pattern of a plurality of separated areas which are
       effective to produce diffractive interference of light and generate a
        plurality of exit pupils which are displaced relative to one another in
       the form of an array of exit pupils, such as to be viewable as a single,
       continuous enlarged exit pupil, and the areas comprise irregular
       features of different sizes, both in horizontal and vertical section,
       which have curved surfaces at lateral faces thereof.
3.     The    instrument of claim     2, wherein the       diffractive element      is
       configured to relay light from the received image to a common region
       on a viewing plane across the aperture of the diffractive element.
4.     The instrument of claim 3, wherein the diffractive units are disposed
       progressively radially outwardly from the optical axis of the diffractive
       element and configured progressively to provide for an increasing
       angular offset, such that, independent of location on the aperture of
       the diffractive element, light from the received image is relayed to the
       common region on the viewing plane.
5.     The instrument of any of claims 2 to 4, wherein the diffractive units
       provide for relaying of light from the received image to the common
       region on the viewing plane without any relay lens arrangement.
6.     The instrument of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the progressively
       increasing angular offset is provided by providing the areas within
       each diffractive unit of different radial position with different size,
       shape and position.

WO 2014/056632                                                   PCT/EP20131057715
                                        12
7.     The instrument of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the surface of the
       diffractive element is on a substantially flat plane.
8.     The instrument of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the curved surfaces at
       the lateral faces of the areas comprise frusto-conical or frusto
       cylindrical surfaces and/or the lateral faces of the areas within each
       diffractive unit include both inwardly and outwardly curved sections.
9.     The instrument of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein the lateral faces of
       the areas within each diffractive unit are tilted or inclined, optionally
       as a rectilinear surface, tapering inwardly away from the surface of
       the diffractive element.
10.    The instrument of any of claims 1 to 9, wherein the areas are
        projections which extend from the surface of the diffractive element
        and/or depressions which extend into the surface of the diffractive
        element.
11.    The instrument of any of claims 1 to 10, wherein the replications of
       the patterns of areas have a pitch of from about 40 pm to about 100
        pm or from about 60 pm to about 100 pm.
 12.   The instrument of any of claims 1 to 11, wherein the areas each have
        one    or more surfaces at an        upper surface thereof which        are
        substantially parallel to the surface of the diffractive element, inclined
        to the surface of the diffractive element and/or arcuate.
 13.    The instrument of claim 12, wherein the upper surface of each of the
        areas has a curved peripheral edge.
 14.    The instrument of any of claims 1 to 13, wherein the areas each have
        an average dimension of from about 1 pm to about 10 pm.

WO 2014/056632                                     PCT/EP20131057715
                                    13
 15.   The instrument of any of claims 1 to 14, wherein the    optical
        instrument is a microscope.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
