ABSTRACT
            A method for analysing the level of user engagement within an electronic
document is provided. The method includes displaying an electronic document having one
or more pages to a user. The document includes a graphical user interface and one or more
content placeholders associated with the pages for displaying content within the placeholder.
The method further includes the steps of determining whether the user has carried out one
or more actions within the electronic document and determining the level of user engagement
based on the one or more actions.
[Figure 2a]

                                     3/16
                                                    205            200
                                    Web server
        220                                1210
Database                          Client computer
                                                              215
                               Viewer actions
                               Start viewing
                               Turn page
                               Allow page to auto turn
                               Click link
                               Pause playback
                               Time on page
                               Close fabZing
                                                                       225
                        230         Author computer     235              240
       Viewer actions                Metric weighting      Final score
       Start viewing
    -- Turn page                              Each
       Allow page to auto turn               metric
       Click link                          multiplied
        Pause playback                         by
      *-Time on page                 .       e.g-t-n-            98.25
      -Close fabZing                       weighting
                                  Figure 2a

                                                  1
              METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR ANALYZING THE LEVEL OF USER
                    ENGAGEMENT WITHIN AN ELECTRONIC DOCUMENT
TECHNICAL FIELD
[001]       The present invention relates to a method and system for analysing the level of
user engagement within an electronic document.
BACKGROUND
[002]       Electronic documents such as e-books provide a digital equivalent of a printed
document, and may be displayed and read on computers and hand held devices including
mobile telephones, PDAs and dedicated e-book readers. In recent times, use of electronic
documents has increased and audio and video together with text have been used to enhance
a user's experience in reading the document.
[003]       Video, audio, text, and image content alone can be considered static or composed
of a single linear file. There exist techniques to determine if a file has been opened or viewed.
A problem with these existing techniques is that they are very limited in measuring to what
degree users engage with the content.
[004]       For example, many user uploaded video sites only analyse the number of views
and average viewing time.         A problem with this approach is that it is only a modest
improvement from a television commercial in that the site is unable to determine whether the
viewer has in fact left the room or is viewing another device such as a tablet or phone.
[005]       Accordingly, it would be desirable to provide a system and method for improved
analysis of user engagement with an electronic document.

                                                 2
[006]        A reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[007]        In a broad form, the present invention provides a method for analysing the level
of user engagement within an electronic document, wherein content placeholders are
provided, and it is thereby possible to determine the user's actions on the respective pages
and media, so that a level of user engagement can be determined. According to one aspect,
the present invention provides a method for automatically analysing the level of user
engagement within an electronic document, including the steps of:
       displaying an electronic document having one or more pages, the document including
a graphical user interface and one or more content placeholders associated with the pages
for displaying content within the placeholder;
               determining whether the user has carried out one or more actions within the
electronic document; and responsive to the one or more actions, automatically determining
the level of user engagement
[008]        Advantageously,     the  present   invention   allows   for measuring     audience
engagement through a multiplicity of media within the content placeholders rather than a
linear video file in isolation. Since each page is broken down into a variety of images, text,
links, video, and sounds each with their own subset of analytics; the resulting metric analysis
is far greater and nuanced than any one medium by itself. These enhanced analytics in real
time also empower the creator to iterate their message with more accuracy, personalization,
effectiveness, and speed.

                                               3
[009]      According to another aspect, the present invention provides software for use with
a computer including a processor and associated memory device for storing the software is
provided, the software being for providing an electronic document to a user, the electronic
document having one or more pages and one or more content placeholders associated with
the pages, the software including a series of instructions to cause the processor to carry out
the steps of: displaying an electronic document having one or more pages, the document
including a graphical user interface and one or more content placeholders associated with
the pages for displaying content within the placeholder; determining whether the user has
carried out one or more actions within the electronic document; determining the level of user
engagement based on the one or more actions.
[0010]     According to a further aspect, the present invention provides a computer readable
media containing software for use with a computer including a processor and associated
memory device for storing the software is provided, the software being for providing an
electronic document to a user, the electronic document having one or more pages and one
or more content placeholders associated with the pages, the software including a series of
instructions to cause the processor to carry out the steps of: displaying an electronic
document having one or more pages, the document including a graphical user interface and
one or more content placeholders associated with the pages for displaying content within the
placeholder; determining whether the user has carried out one or more actions within the
electronic document; determining the level of user engagement based on the one or more
actions.
[0011]     According to another aspect, the present invention provides an apparatus for
providing an electronic document to a user is provided, the electronic document having one
or more pages and one or more content placeholders associated with the pages, the
apparatus including: (i) a processor, (ii) a memory, (iii) a user interface including an input
device and an output device, and (iv) a software program resident in memory accessible to
the processor, the program executable by the processor to carry out the steps of: displaying

                                                 4
an electronic document having one or more pages, the document including a graphical user
interface and one or more content placeholders associated with the pages for displaying
content within the placeholder; determining whether the user has carried out one or more
actions within the electronic document; determining the level of user engagement based on
the one or more actions.
[0012]       The apparatus, for example, may include an electronic book reader, a PDA,
mobile phone, computer or other device.
[0013]      Accordingly, implementations of the present invention allow for the provider of the
electronic document to better understand the usage and actions taken by a user within the
document, and to measure the level of engagement with the document and with sections of
the document. This in turn provides a mechanism by which the provider can, for example,
change aspects of the document and determine whether user engagement has improved, or
to identify aspects that or poorly used by users.
[0014]       Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example
only, with reference to the accompanying drawings.           It is to be understood that the
particularity of the drawings does not supersede the generality of the preceding description
of the invention.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0015]       Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of an example network that can be utilised to give
effect to a method according to an embodiment of the invention.
[0016]       Figure 2 is a functional block diagram of an example processing system that can
be connected to the network.

                                                5
[0017]       Figure 2a is a schematic diagram of a preferred network that can be utilised to
give effect to a method according to an embodiment of the invention.
[0018]       Figures 3a - 3e show an example sequence of screen shots of a page of an
electronic document being displayed according to an embodiment of the invention.
[0019]       Figure 4 is a flow chart of a method for analysing the level of user engagement
within an electronic document according to an embodiment of the invention.
[0020]       Figures 5a-5g show example screen shots of analytics which determine the level
of user engagement in the electronic document.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0021]       The present invention may be implemented in a wide variety of ways, using
networks which are local or limited, private networks, or the public internet or similar systems.
It is further capable of being implemented in many differences systems, in various software
languages and using a wide variety of different hardware. The present invention may further
be part of a larger system and interact with one or more of the software and/or hardware
products. Accordingly, the example should be understood as illustrative and not limitative of
the general inventive concept.
[0022]       The term electronic document is intended to encompass any readable file which
can be displayed for interaction with a user. The files may be presented via, for example,
the public internet or an intranet. They may encompass different types of media, as will be
explained below. They may be stored in non-electronic means, for example in optical or any
other storage means, for presentation as required. The document in some implementations
may be presented as a webpage, using HTML or similar hypertext enabled languages.

                                               6
Example of a Network
[0023]      Embodiments of the present invention can be realised over a network, an example
of which is shown in Figure 1.
[0024]      Figure 1 illustrates an example of a network for use with implementations of the
present invention. Network 80 includes one or more client processing systems and one or
more server processing systems. In this example, the client processing systems include
electronic book readers 82, 84, 86 and personal computers (PCs) 88, 90.          The server
processing systems include network servers 92 and 94. The client and server processing
systems 82, 84, 88, 90 and 94 may be connected via a network such as the internet 96 and
the electronic book reader 86 may be connected to a PC 88.
[0025]      The transfer of information and/or data over the network can be achieved using
wired communications means or wireless communications means. The server processing
systems 92 and 94 can facilitate the transfer of data between the network and one or more
databases, such as database 93.
[0026]      It will be appreciated that embodiments of the invention may be realised over
different networks, such as a MAN (metropolitan area network), WAN (wide area network) or
LAN (local area network). Also, embodiments need not take place over a network, and the
method steps could occur entirely on a client or server processing system.
Example of a Processing System
[0027]      The client and server processing systems 82 - 94 may include a processing
system 100 shown in Figure 2.
[0028]      The processing system 100 includes a processor 102 (or processing unit), a
memory 104, at least one input device 106, at least one output device 108 and a

                                                 7
communications port 122. As is shown, the processor 102, memory 104, input device 106,
output device 108 and communications port 122 are typically coupled together via a bus or
group of buses 110. In certain embodiments, input device 106 and output device 108 may
be the same device such as in the case of, for example, a computer graphics display or
handheld device such as an electronic reader that incorporates a touch-screen. The input
device may also include a keypad, movement sensor, retina scan (to detect movement of the
eye), a camera or sensor to detect blinks to capture one or more actions carried out by the
user of the system 100. Any kind of suitable input device may be used.
[0029]      An interface 112 can also be provided for coupling the processing system 100 to
one or more peripheral devices. For example interface 112 may include a PCI card or PC
card. At least one storage device 114 which houses at least one database 116 can also be
provided.
[0030]      The memory 104 may include any suitable memory device and including, for
example, volatile or non-volatile memory, solid state storage devices, magnetic devices, etc.
The memory 104 may typically store an operating system that provides functionality to the
processing system 100. A file system and files are also typically stored on the storage device
114 and/or the memory 104. The memory 104 may also include one or more software
applications or program data.
[0031]      The applications running in memory 104 may include               electronic document
presentation programs, such as ImpressTM, PowerPoint       TM, Flash TM, Silverlight TM, Keynote T M ,
Acrobat TM , Mobipocket TM, Sprocketcore T M , Stanza TM, HTML, JavaScript or any other suitable
application for displaying electronic documents for reading or reviewing.
[0032]      The processor 102 may include more than one processing device, for example to
handle different functions within the processing system 100.

                                               8
[0033]     Input device 106 receives input data 118 and may include, for example, a
keyboard, a pointer device such as a pen-like device or a mouse, a tracker- ball, joystick or
touch-screen, audio receiving device for voice controlled activation, such as a microphone,
data receiver or antenna such as a modem or wireless data adaptor, data acquisition card,
etcetera. The input device may also include a movement detector or retina scan (to detect
eye movement), a sensor or camera to detect blinks, or any other suitable input device.
Advantageously, the system, via the input device 106 can detect actions from the user to
ultimately determine the level of engagement of a user with the electronic document. The
input device 108 may be operable by a user to enter input data 118, or it may receive data
from another input data source or the system may capture data from the input device to
determine if an action has occurred. Thus, the input data 118 may be provided by different
input devices 106. For example, in an embodiment the input data 18 may include keyboard
or mouse instructions entered by a user, in conjunction with data received via a network.
Preferably, the input device 108 includes a touch screen associated with an electronic reader.
[0034]     Output device 108 produces or generates output data 120. In one embodiment,
the output device 108 includes a display device (such as a computer graphics display) for
providing output data 120 in a visual form. In another embodiment, the output device 108
includes a display device or monitor together with a set of audio speakers in which case the
output data 120 may be provided in an audio-visual form.        Advantageously, the present
invention allows for a determination as to whether a user has listened to a portion of the
electronic document via receiving input from a microphone for example. A sound produced
by the viewer could be recorded such as a clap to indicate that they have listened to a portion
of the document. Alternatively, the viewer may be required to a tick box or provide a textual
response to a question prompt which does not appear until a later stage of the song, audio,
page, video, etcetera. Preferably, these prompts are visible for a limited period of time (such
as in the middle of media playback to assess viewer attention). For example, after each of
the choreographed media appears, dissolves, slides into document over a number of different
pages and times, the viewer is asked (or has been instructed) and has a limited timeframe to

                                                 9
tap every image, text box, and video within the overall document to verify their presence and
engagement. A reward or point system allowing viewer to gauge their own engagement may
be provided.
[0035]      It will be appreciated that other types of output devices 108 may also be used,
such as, a port (for example a USB port), a peripheral component adaptor, a data transmitter
or antenna such as a modem or wireless network adaptor, etcetera.
[0036]      It will also be appreciated that the output data 120 could be output from a variety
of different output devices 108 such as, for example, a visual display on a monitor in
conjunction with data transmitted to a network. In such an embodiment a user may view
data output, or an interpretation of the data output, on, for example, a monitor or using a
printer.
[0037]      The storage device 114 can include any form of data or information storage
means, for example, volatile or non-volatile memory, solid state storage devices, optical
devices, magnetic devices, or the like.
[0038]      The communications port 122 allows the processing system 100 to communicate
with other devices via a hard wired or wireless network, such as network 80.
[0039]      In use, the processing system 100 can be adapted to allow data or information to
be stored in and/or retrieved from, via wired or wireless communication means, the at least
one database 116.        The interface 112 may allow wired and/or wireless communication
between the processing unit 102 and peripheral components that may serve a specialized
purpose. The processor 102 may receive instructions as input data 118 via input device 106
and can display processed results or other output to a user by utilising output device 108.
Multiple input devices 106 and/or output devices 108 can be provided.

                                               10
[0040]     In terms of the processing system 100, it should be appreciated that the
processing system 100 may be any form of terminal, server processing system, specialised
hardware, computer, computer system or computerised device, personal computer (PC),
mobile or cellular telephone, mobile data terminal, portable computer, Personal Digital
Assistant (PDA), pager or any other similar type of device.
[0041]     Figure 2a is a schematic diagram of a preferred network that can be utilised to
give effect to a method according to an embodiment of the invention.        The network 200
includes a web server 205 which may be connected to the Internet and web server 205 is
connected to a client computer 210. Client computer 210 includes a viewer action component
215 which determines one or more viewer actions when an electronic document is being read
or viewed by a viewer for example: start viewing, turn page, allow page to auto turn, click link,
pause play back, time on page, close the document.
[0042]     Client computer 210 and viewer action component 215 are connected to database
220 which stores the output of the viewer action component 215. Also connected to database
220 is author computer 225. Author computer 225 receives input from database 220 in the
form of data from client computer 210 by way of viewer action component 215. Author
computer 225 includes viewer action component 230 which determines one or more actions
carried out by the viewer which were received from the database 220 and passes this
information to a metric weighting component 235. The metric weighting component 235
operates by applying a weighting to one or more actions and depending on whether or not
the document being viewed is being viewed by one person or by many people. The metric
weighting component 235 then outputs the result to final score component 240 which
provides the author computer 225 with a final score as to the level of engagement that the
person using the client computer 210 had with the electronic document.
[0043]     An example of weighting may refer to a warning label on a prescribed medicine.
The effectiveness and engagement of the label would be enhanced by outputting such

                                               11
information in a multi modal format rather than static text although in this case the company
may not consider there to be any benefit to sharing via social media.         Consequently an
emphasis on completing the viewing while answering a time delayed question would receive
a more valued scoring. For example using a scale of 1 to 100; reaching the last page would
have a 25% weighting, inputting appropriate answers a 55% weighting, clicking on time
delayed 'I understand' buttons a 15% weighting, and 'comments' or further information links
only a 5% weighting. This would be a one to many form of communication designed to
increase understanding and reduce adverse medical outcomes while also diminishing a drug
company's liability by documenting a user's engagement far beyond what is currently
available.
[0044]     Conversely, the engagement measurement for a coupon or advertisement would
vary greatly from a warning label or instruction manual. In this case, a 'like' or the initiation
of a product purchase would be a more important consideration. Using again a scale of 1 to
100; clicking on a 'buy now' button and completing the purchase would have a 56%
weighting; sharing via social media a 19% weighting; 'liking' the brand a 10% weighting;
reaching the last page a 4% weighting, clicking on a link for 'further information' a 3%
weighting; inputting a comment a 2% weighting; visiting the brand's website or Facebook T M
page a 6% weighting.
[0045]     A method for analysing the level of engagement of a user within an electronic
document will be described with reference to Figures 3 to 5. In this example, the electronic
document is a newspaper style document shown in the screenshots Figures 3a and 3b and
includes 14 pages and multiple content placeholders associated with the pages.              This
example is given for illustrative purposes only, and the electronic document may be any story,
presentation,    advertisement,     lesson   plan,   company      brochure,   invitation,  office
communication, instruction manual, warning label, business card, coupon, ticket, boarding
pass, virtual good (e.g., flowers, coffee) etcetera. It will be appreciated that the electronic
document may be downloaded by the user, for example to the electronic book reader 82, it

                                              12
may have been copied to the reader 82 from a computer readable medium, such as a DVD
or USB device or it may be pre-installed on the reader 82 when purchased. The electronic
document may thus be saved in memory 104 of the reader 82.
[0046]     Also saved in memory 104 of the reader 82 is software for carrying out the method
according to an embodiment of the present invention. The software may also be downloaded
to the reader 82 via the internet 96 or installed from a computer readable medium.       The
software may be usable with multiple different electronic documents, for example documents
created by different authors.
[0047]      In another embodiment, the software may be saved in memory 104 of an external
server, for example server 92 and accessed by the reader 82 over the internet 96, via its
communication port 122.
[0048]      The electronic document may contain text, it may contain a video/audio recording
of the document being read, or it may contain a combination of both.        Content such as
images, backgrounds, smells, animations, music, sounds and photographs are shown at
different content placeholders in the electronic document. Some content placeholders may
contain no content.
[0049]      The user may browse through the pages of the electronic document and engage
with it. The software causes the electronic document to be displayed on an output device
108, such as a display screen. The user may navigate through the document by using an
input device 106, such as a touch screen on the reader 82 to turn the page, or the software
may cause the next page to be displayed automatically once all the content on the previous
page has been displayed.
[0050]      Each page may include one or more content placeholders. For example, in Figure
3a, page 1 has three content placeholders 305, 310 and 315, and a navigation bar 320.

                                                13
Content placeholder 305 defines the overall page in which a background maybe inserted and
other content placeholders (such as 310 and 315) may be provided within it.               Content
placeholder 310 for example defines video in the middle left of page 1, which may fade in or
play a short time after the content in content placeholder 310 appears. Content placeholder
315 defines a text box positioned in the middle right of the page. Navigation bar 320 includes
a full screen option 320A, a page completion indicator 310B, a page number indicator 310C
and a page turn button 310D. It would be desirable to determine to what extent the user has
engaged with this page and the overall electronic document. For example, determining if the
user selected the navigation bar 320 before content placeholders 310 and 315 finished
displaying (as indicated by page indicator 320C).
Page 3 as shown in Figure 3b includes five content placeholders 305, 325, 330, 335 and 340
together with navigation bar 320. Again, content placeholder 305 may define the overall page
in which a background maybe inserted and other content placeholders (such as 325, 330,
335 and 340) may be provided within it. Content placeholder 325 defines text in the upper
right of page 3, which may fade in or play a short time after the content in content placeholder
325 appears. Content placeholder 330 for example defines video in the lower right of page
3, which may fade in or play a short time after the content in content placeholder 325 appears
may play across a number of pages (such as pages 3 to 6 for example). Content placeholder
325 for example defines an image in the lower left of page 3, which may fade in or move after
the content in content placeholder 335 appears. Content placeholder 340 defines text in the
upper left of page 3, which may transition from left to right. Again, navigation bar 320 includes
a full screen option 320A, a page completion indicator 310b, a page number indicator 310c
and a page turn button 310D.
[0051]       Figures 3c, 3d and 3e show an electronic document in the form of advertising
which consists of three pages and which includes a number of content place holders. In
particular, the advertising relates to a survey which the author wishes the user(s) to carry out.
Figure 3c shows page 1 of 3 of the electronic document and it includes five content place

                                                14
holders 305, 345, 350, 355 and 360. In this case content place holders 345 and 355 are text
whereas content place holders 350 and 360 are video. This page provides an introduction
before moving to the second page shown in Figure 3d, again including content place holders
305, 345, 350, 355 and 360 but in this case the content place holder 345 includes a picture
and content place holder 355 includes a personalised greeting in anticipation of the user
completing the survey to follow. Figure 3e again includes content place holders 345, 350,
355, and 360 in this case videos at content place holders 350 and 360 still remain but the
content place holder 345 has been replaced with a survey. The present invention determines
whether or not the user has carried out the survey and/or watched the videos in content place
holders 350 and 360, whether or not they have skipped any pages, whether they have exited
the document before it finished. In the case of a survey, clicking of finish button, the user
moving to another page, an audio trigger, a timer mechanism, or the user exiting the
document may indicate completion of the survey.
[0052]      Figure 4 illustrates a method 400 for analysing the level of user engagement within
an electronic document according to an embodiment of the invention.               At step 405 an
electronic document is displayed to a user, the electronic document having one or more
pages such as that shown in Figures 3a to 3e. The electronic document includes a graphical
user interface for navigating the electronic document and the electronic document includes
one or more content place holders associated with the pages for displaying content within
the place holder. The place holders may provide content such as a video clip, graphics, an
animation, text, a game, a questionnaire and the like.
[0053]      Once the document is being viewed by a user control moves to step 410 where
during the user's engagement with the electronic document it is determined whether one or
more actions have been carried out within the electronic document. The system determines
that the document is being viewed by a trigger such as a 'click on link' which may trigger a
notification sent to the server that viewing is 'in progress' ... (or in the aggregate, how many
people are currently viewing the document for a one to may type of document such as a

                                                 15
marketing campaign) together with real time updates as to events which occur such as a
page turn, link click, or typing an answer. Real time changes in engagement levels could
even alter pre-set variations in content or outcomes. The one or more actions may include
actions which are carried out within the one or more content place holders or maybe the
absence of an action such as allowing the electronic document to automatically play and turn
pages automatically. In addition, the action may include engaging with the graphical user
interface - for example fast forwarding or skipping a page before it has completed. Control
then moves to step 415 in which the level of user engagement is determined based upon the
one or more actions carried out during the display of the electronic documents. The level of
user engagement may be determined by aggregating one or more of the actions carried out
by the user during the viewing of the document. For example a score may be generated (out
of 100, or graded A,B,C ... or 'star ranking' or the like) or the content creator may choose how
to rank importance of actions based on their own preferences. Particular pages may for
example carry a greater weighting if a document was exited at that particular page than any
other page. In an alternative, the extent to which a page or document has been shared via
social media may increase the ranking (or more weight may be placed on this action) in
determining an overall score.
[0054]      The action records may, in suitable implementations, record a wide variety of
possible actions or steps, or sequences of those steps. Implementations of the present
invention are not limited to any specific actions, and the factors recorded are a function of the
code written and the specific requirements of the site and owner. Examples includes one or
more of: the point at which a document was terminated; how many pages were viewed before
the document was terminated; whether or not a page turn was a user initiated page turn;
whether or not a page turn was non-user initiated page turn; the length of time spent on a
page; whether or not there was a page turn back to a previous page, the length of time spent
viewing a particular content placeholder; whether the electronic document paused; whether
the volume was turned up or muted; the number of page views by the user; which content
placeholders were engaged with; whether content within a content placeholder was viewed;

                                               16
and whether a page was forwarded by email or social media.
[0055]       Preferably, the overall score is an aggregate of a multiplicity of weighted
engagement measurements that likely would be derived from a predetermined scale or
weighting. Since pages associated with the electronic document are multi modal in length
that includes time, the present invention can offer a greater multiplicity of measurements that
have not been available previously.
[0056]       Preferably, the author may view the analytics via a dashboard or may be sent
alerts sent via email, text etcetera. Preferably, the analytics are captured in real time and
updated every few minutes. This may be likened to a social media application so that the
author knows their reader is currently reading it. For example, a financial consultant authors
an electronic document for a client and is alerted that they are viewing it. They could then
view the analytics and call the client a few seconds later while the information is still fresh in
their mind and also know precisely what areas they are interested in/clicked on, etcetera.
[0057]      As an example of aggregating one or more actions within a document to determine
an overall level of engagement, a media company may auto generate personalised 'news
films' with multi-layered stories and advertising inside of it whereby alerts are to be sent to
journalists if their stories generate over a 60% exit rate by page 2 or if any portions of their
article have a 'greater than 40% early page turn rate' so that they could edit or tighten the
piece in real time and update it accordingly. Using a scale of 1 to 100; reaching the last page
would have a 20% weighting, total seconds spent in the document a 10% weighting, clicking
on the adjoining advertisement a 25% weighting, sharing via social media a 35% weighting
and 'liking' or commenting at 5% each. Hence, the top score of 100 would be achieved if a
viewer reached the end without any premature page turns and clicked on the advertisement
along with a 'like' button and shared it via social media while also inputting a comment. A
more moderate score of 60 would accrue from viewing % of the document (15 points) before
exiting while turning the page on average after only % of the content has finished (5 out of 10

                                                  17
points) without clicking on the advertisement (0 points) but having shared the document (35
points) and 'liking' it (5 points) without writing any comments. Engagement data/scores can
be analysed on an individual basis or in the aggregate/context of a mass mailing to thousands
or millions of clients. A data merge mailed out to many thousands of clients can still yield a
unique URL for each recipient thereby allowing automated personalisation along with further
individual examination of analytics.
[0058]      The measurement or scaling may vary in electronic documents used in marketing
or advertising (political or commercial advertising) compared to an electronic document for
education, a survey, or instruction manual, etcetera. In the context of advertising the number
of social media shares may be weighted higher than viewing the last page. Or in another
campaign with an image, textual, QR code, bar code, or link based coupon inside the
document, the rate of data input or redemption rate may have a greater weighting.
[0059]      In an alternative, the actions carried out by the user may simply be reported and
recorded so that the creator of the electronic document can determine the level of
engagement with the document and in particular, for example a particular page in the
document. It may be for example, that many users who view the document exit on page
three and the electronic document may be therefore updated to provide a page three which
is more interesting to better engage the user. In another alternative, it may include a page
where viewers often turn the page before it has finished indicating to the creator to shorten
the imagery, text, or video portions on this page.
[0060]      The one or more actions recorded may include the point in which a document was
terminated by the graphical user interface, how many pages within the electronic document
were viewed before the electronic document was terminated, whether or not a page turn was
a user initiated page turn, whether or not a page turn was a non-user initiated page turn (i.e.
an automatic page turn associated with the electronic document), the length of time a user
spent on a page which may be measured by a timer, whether or not there was a page turn

                                                18
back to a previous page, the length of time spent viewing a particular content page holder.
For example, a page may include numerous content place holders one of which may include
a video. It may be determined that a user has or has not watched the video within the content
place holder but has watched or viewed another content place holder within the particular
page. This may be determined by providing retina monitoring, requesting a mouse over by
the user on to the content place holder determining whether or not this has been carried out
and reporting. Other actions may include the number of page views by the user, which
particular content place holders within the page where engaged with, for example, whether
they were clicked on, whether there was an input to a questionnaire which was presented to
the user. Determining which content place holder the user focused on within the page during
the display of the page. This may be determined via a retina monitor or by sensing voice
commands. Also a further action may include whether or not the page or the electronic
document itself was forwarded via email or social media.        Or whether or not a particular
hyperlink was clicked on in the page. Preferably the one or more actions are aggregated so
as to determine the level of engagement of a user.
[0061]      Figures 5a to 5g show screen shots of analytics for the electronic document
provided in Figures 3a to 3e. In this regard, the electronic document is a 14 page sample
newspaper with news and video and text and sound on one or more content place holders
over 14 pages. Each of the pages has a particular duration and a number of content place
holders within it. Figure 5a illustrates the retention rate of viewers by page number which
provides the document creator with an indication as to how many pages the average viewer
watched for example it is clear that the first page was viewed by 100 percent of the viewers
and this drops off to 73 percent on the second page, 61 percent on the third page and so on
until 37 percent on the fourteenth page. Each of the pages also has a number of views
together with the number of unique viewers of the page and the average viewing time of the
page. This may be determined over a time period such as the last seven days as shown in
Figure 5a. Advantageously this metric may allow the creator of the electronic document to
consider whether the document is too long or making sure pages 3 onwards are engaging

                                                 19
so as to maintain the user reading the electronic document.
[0062]       Figure 5b is metric determining the number of times each page in a particular
electronic document was viewed and in this case it can be seen for example that the first
page was viewed the most times, followed by the second page and another spike between
pages 6 through 8. It may be that the user viewing the electronic document has elected to
skip to page 7 for example while having watched pages 1 and 2 (or the user is replaying this
page or skipping back to it). Figure 5c shows a metric illustrating a number of views of the
overall electronic document by date.
[0063]       Figure 5d the metric determining at what point did the user exit the document by
closing down the electronic document. It is clear from the analytics in the case of the example
people either exited on the first page generally or viewed the document through to the last
page on page 14. This metric may give the document creator insight into the content of the
page between 2 and 13 being satisfactory but perhaps the first page requiring more
interesting content for example. Figure 5e is a metric illustrating the percentage of viewers
that let a particular page within the electronic document complete rather than turning the page
manually via the graphic user interface. It can be seen that certain pages such as pages 1
and 4 had a lower percentage of people waiting rather than say, for example pages 5 and 9.
The creator of the document can then consider the reasons why this might be the case such
as the length of the display of the page and consider shortening it or improving the content
of the page. Figure 5f illustrates a screen shot of a metric showing action taken by a user
within the electronic document and advises whether or not they have clicked on links within
the electronic document or whether they have shared the electronic document or links within
the electronic document to other users such as via Facebook T M , twitterTM and other social
media.
[0064]       Figure 5g illustrates a screen shot showing a metric for measuring the average
number of seconds the user spent on each particular page of the electronic document. For

                                                   20
example, the average time on page 1 was 41 seconds, page 2 was 36 seconds, etcetera.
The metric may include page replays of the page in the average.                If the example was
measuring a 'one to one' document (i.e. a document sent from one person to another) the
creator of the document could see that the recipient turned page 3 after 32 seconds (even
though the full page lasts 41 seconds) which would inform the creator that although the
recipient did not let the page complete, they still viewed it for 32 seconds. Alternatively, if the
recipient viewed the page for 94 seconds (which may be considered to be an inordinate
amount of time for that page) but the page has not been viewed more than once, then it may
be that the recipient has paused the document and for example answered the phone before
continuing to the end of the document before exiting.
[0065]      A further metric may include the rate of change of any combination of
measurements over a particular time period to help determine what may be trending or a rate
of improvement/decline in the analytics of a particular document's engagement level. For
example, an engagement level increase (e.g., a hypothetical score of +21) could develop
from high social media sharing leading to more like minded individuals or interest groups
viewing (think political party affiliations, sports groups, or hobby interests) which would in turn
lead to increased viral sharing and targeted recipients.            This would be beneficial in
determining the effectiveness of changes made by the creator, or in the absence of such
changes determining what influences, patterns, or changes are occurring outside the data
set.
[0066]      In addition to the above, comparative engagement analysis may be done between
various social media sites. For example, using the same electronic document spread evenly
over a number of different social media sites may yield quite different degrees of
engagement. For example a Facebook view in Australia versus a Twitter link in England and
a Pinterest view in Florida.
[0067]      Optional embodiments of the present invention may also be said to broadly consist

                                                21
in the paths, elements and features referred to or indicated herein, individually or collectively,
in any or all combinations of two or more of the paths, elements or features and wherein
specific integers are mentioned herein which have known equivalents in the art to which the
invention relates, such known equivalents are deemed to be incorporated herein as if
individually set forth.
[0068]      Although a preferred embodiment has been described in detail, it should be
understood that various changes, substitutions, and alterations can be made by one of
ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention.

                                                22
CLAIMS
1.           A method for automatically analysing the level of user engagement within an
electronic document, including the steps of:
               displaying an electronic document having one or more pages, the document
including a graphical user interface and one or more content placeholders associated with
the pages for displaying content within the placeholder;
               determining whether the user has carried out one or more actions within the
electronic document; and
               responsive to the one or more actions, automatically determining the level of user
engagement.
2.           A method according to claim 1, wherein the actions are carried out within the one
or more content placeholders.
3.           A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the content placeholder
includes content in the form of one or more of: a game, a questionnaire, an image, a video
clip, text, a sound, music, a photograph, a smell or an animation.
4.           A method according to claim 3, wherein the actions are associated with the
graphical user interface.
5.           A method according to      any one of the preceding claims, wherein an action
includes any one or more selected from the group comprising: providing an input to a prompt
provided by the one or more content placeholders; moving a cursor over the one or more
content placeholders; providing or recording an eye movement or blink; making a hand
gesture; and providing voice input.

                                              23
6.         A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the action
records one or more of the point at which a document was terminated; how many pages were
viewed before the document was terminated; whether or not a page turn was a user initiated
page turn; whether or not a page turn was non-user initiated page turn; the length of time
spent on a page; whether or not there was a page turn back to a previous page, the length
of time spent viewing a particular content placeholder; whether the electronic document
paused; whether the volume was turned up or muted; the number of page views by the user;
which content placeholders were engaged with; whether content within a content placeholder
was viewed; and whether a page was forwarded by email or social media.
7.         A method according to any one of the preceding claims, further including the step
of aggregating the one or more actions to determine a level of user engagement.
8.         A software product for use with a computer including a processor and associated
memory device for storing the software, the software for providing an electronic document to
a user, the electronic document having one or more pages and one or more content
placeholders associated with the pages, the software including a series of instructions to
cause the processor to carry out the steps of:
           displaying an electronic document having one or more pages, the document
including a graphical user interface and one or more content placeholders associated with
the pages for displaying content within the placeholder;
           determining whether the user has carried out one or more actions within the
electronic document;
           determining the level of user engagement based on the one or more actions.

                                               24
9.         A computer readable media containing software for use with a computer including
a processor and associated memory device for storing the software, the software for
providing an electronic document to a user, the electronic document having one or more
pages and one or more content placeholders associated with the pages, the software
including a series of instructions to cause the processor to carry out the steps of:
           displaying an electronic document having one or more pages, the document
including a graphical user interface and one or more content placeholders associated with
the pages for displaying content within the placeholder;
           determining whether the user has carried out one or more actions within the
electronic document;
           determining the level of user engagement based on the one or more actions.
10.        An apparatus for providing an electronic document to a user, the electronic
document having one or more pages and one or more content placeholders associated with
the pages, the apparatus including:
           a processor,
           a memory,
           a user interface including an input device and an output device, and
           a software program resident in memory accessible to the processor, the program
executable by the processor to carry out the steps of:
                 displaying an electronic document having one or more pages, the document
           including a graphical user interface and one or more content placeholders
           associated with the pages for displaying content within the placeholder;
                 determining whether the user has carried out one or more actions within the
           electronic document;
                 determining the level of user engagement based on the one or more actions.

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                              1 / 16

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 2                              2 / 16

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 2a                              3 / 16

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       4 / 16
Figure 3a

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       5 / 16
Figure 3b

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       6 / 16
Figure 3c

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       7 / 16
Figure 3d

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       8 / 16
Figure 3e

                       9 / 16
<removed-date>
              400
<removed-apn>          Communications
                        Port             405
                       Determine
                        Actions          410
                    Determine level of
                    user engagement      415
                      Figure 4

                                                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1. Retention Rate of Viewers by Page Number
                                                                                     10 / 16
                                              Figure 5a

                                                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2. Numbers of Times Each Page Was Viewed
                                                                                  11 / 16
                                           Figure 5b

                                                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3. Number of Views of All Fabzings By Date
                                                                                    12 / 16
                                             Figure 5c

                                                                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
4. At What Page Did Audience Exit the Document (newspaper)
                                                                                              13 / 16
                                                       Figure 5d

                                                                                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5. Percentage of Viewers That Let Page Finish Versus Turning the Page Themselves
                                                                                                              14 / 16
                                                        Figure 5e

                                                                                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
6. Actions Taken by Viewer (e.g.; links clicked on, shared on Facebook, Tweeted, etc.)
                                                                                                                    15 / 16
                                                            Figure 5f

                                                             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
7. Number of Seconds Viewer Spent on Each Page
                                                                                        16 / 16
                                                 Figure 5g

