ABSTRACT
A beam for building, the beam comprising: a first side section having at least one edge with a
flange; and a second side section, which is a mirror image of the first side section; wherein
the first side section and the second side section are conjoined back to back so as to form the
web of the beam.

   S42
34
       Figure 3

                                      A BEAM FOR A BUILDING
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]       The present invention relates to building and construction and, more particularly to a
pre-fabricated, support beam for building.
BACKGROUND
[0002]       Beams are used in the construction of buildings. The beams can be made from
timber or metal. The beams are used to support floors, walls and roofs of buildings.
[0003]       Larger buildings require heavy universal beams or prefabricated beams which are
made of metal. However, these beams are so heavy that they require the use of a crane at the
building site to put them into position. Because they comprise a substantial amount of steel, they
are costly. Consequently, these beams make the cost of building more expensive, time
consuming and laborious.
[0004]       Timber beams can also be used in the construction of buildings. Although timber
weighs less than steel, beams made of timber are still heavy and frequently require the use of
cranes to insert them into position on a worksite.
[0005]       Steel beams are often preferred to timber beams because steel has less deflection than
timber when spanned over larger distances.
[0006]       There is a need for a beam which is light weight, easy to manufacture, easy to install,
which has low deflection over large distances, has sufficient strength to support concrete floors
and which is comparatively cheap.
[00071       It is an object of the present invention to overcome or at least substantially
ameliorate the aforementioned problems with building beams.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0008]       According to the present invention, there is provided a beam for building, the beam
comprising:
    (a) a first side section having at least one edge with a flange; and
    (b) a second side section, which is a mirror image of the first side section;

    wherein the first side section and the second side section are conjoined back to back so as to
    form the web of the beam.
[0009]        Preferably the flange has bent lip, so that when the first side section is conjoined to
the second side section, the respective lips form a channel. The beam may include a clip section
for holding the top and bottom of the first side section and the second side section together. The
channel may be adapted to accommodate a timber purlin. Preferably, first side section and the
second side section are welded together. Alternatively, the first side section and the second side
section may be screwed together. The first side section and the second side section are
preferably made of steel.
[0010]        According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
making a beam for building, the method comprising the steps of:
    (a) obtaining a first section of metal;
    (b) bending the edges of the first section of metal so as to form a flange;
    (c) obtaining a second section of metal;
    (d) bending the second section of metal so that it is a mirror image of the first section of
        metal; and
    (e) fastening the first section of metal to the second section of metal back to back so as to
        form a web.
[0011]        Preferably, the flange has a lip, so that when the first and second sections of metal
are fastened together, the lips form a channel. More preferably, the method includes the further
step of obtaining a third section of metal and bending it into a c shape so that it is adapted to hold
the lips at the top end of the beam and bottom end of the beam. It is also preferred that the
method also includes the step of inserting a timber purlin into the channel.
[0012]        Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination with any
one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the invention.
[00131        The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0014]        Various embodiments of the invention will be described with reference to the

following drawings, in which:
[0015]       Figure 1 is a representation of a prior art building support beam system for a
suspended concrete floor.
[0016]       Figure 2 is a representation of a prior art timber frame of a home.
[00171       Figure 3 is a perspective view of a beam according to an embodiment of the present
invention.
[0018]       Figure 4 is a perspective view of the beam of figure 3.
[0019]       Figure 5 is a perspective view of another embodiment of a beam according to the
present invention, which includes timber purlins.
[0020]       Figure 6 is a perspective view of a side section of the beams of figures 3 to 5.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0021]       Figure 1 shows a prior art support structure 10 comprises parallel trusses 12 and
universal beams 14, which are cladded with corrugated iron 16 to support a concrete floor 18.
Figure 2 shows a prior art timber frame of a home, comprising a hanging beam 20, lintel 22, a
floor joist 24 or a bearer 26. Each of those components of the frame can be substituted for the
beam 28 of the present invention, which is shown in figures 3 to 6.
[0022]       The beam 28 comprises a first side section 30, a second side section 32 and clip
section 34 and 36. Each of the side sections 30 and 32 has a flange 38 with a lip 40. The lips 40
of each section 30 and 32 form a channel 42, which is adapted to receive a timber purlin 44, as
shown in figure 5. The timber purlin 44 is used when building with timber. The clip section 34
(which is made of metal) is used when the beam 28 is intended for concrete structure.
[0023]       The first side section and the second side section are conjoined by welding, but could
also be bolted or screwed together. The side sections 30 and 32 can be easily cut and bent from a
piece of sheet metal (which is preferably steel).
[0024]       The beam 28 is relatively light compared to metal or timber beams. It is therefore
easier to handle and easy to install. It can be lifted by workers, rather than a crane which is
typically required to manoeuvre prior art beams into position on a building construction site.
[0025]       In the present specification and claims, the word 'comprising' and its derivatives

including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated integers but does not exclude the
inclusion of one or more further integers.
[0026]       Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an embodiment'
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the
appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an embodiment' in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.
[00271       In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more or
less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the invention is not
limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein described comprises
preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore, claimed in any
of its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims (if any)
appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.

                                                 5
CLAIMS
1. A beam for building, the beam comprising:
   (a) a first side section having at least one edge with a flange; and
   (b) a second side section, which is a mirror image of the first side section;
   wherein the first side section and the second side section are conjoined back to back so as
   to form the web of the beam.
2. The beam of claim 1, wherein the flange has bent lip, so that when the first side section is
   conjoined to the second side section, the respective lips form a channel.
3. The beam of claim 2, a clip section for holding the top and bottom of the first side section
   and the second side section together.
4. A method of making a beam for building, the method comprising the steps of:
   (a) obtaining a first section of metal;
   (b) bending the edges of the first section of metal so as to form a flange;
   (c) obtaining a second section of metal;
   (d) bending the second section of metal so that it is a mirror image of the first section of
       metal; and
   (e) fastening the first section of metal to the second section of metal back to back so as to
       form a web.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the flange has a lip, so that when the first and second
   sections of metal are fastened together, the lips form a channel.

                     <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
Figure 1                  18
                               10
           12        16
                14

                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     22
Figure 2   24
                                          20
                26

<removed-date>
                                        42
              34
                                             28
               40
<removed-apn>
                   38
                   30              32
                   38
              34
                        Figure 3

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 4

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 5
                        44

           <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                        40
Figure 6
                        32

