Abstract
Evalurate is a unique online rating system that provides an innovative accumulated live
user value rating for a product or service.
The rating system displays 3 real time key metrics:
  1.    the accumulated average user rating.
  2.    the total number of ratings.
  3.    the average purchase price paid by those who have rated the product or service.
As prices for products or services can vary, buyers have the additional option to enter
the exact price they will be charged and receive the specific Evalurate rating score and
number of ratings relating to that price point in real time.
Buyers must have purchased the product or service on the website to receive an
invitation to rate it and ratings are by invitation only.
Sellers can access the average value for money rating score and the number of units
sold for each price point to assist in optimising the price of a product or service relevant
to the maximising sales quantity and margin.

300 -                                         100
       90
                                              90
250         81 768
                   76 72  72                  8
                               69  66 60  62  70
200
                                              60
150                                           50
S100-0
       I=7C7                                  40
                                               0
  50
       $10 $11 $12    $13 $14 $15 $16 $17 $18

     Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are two pages of description only

Description
     1. Only when a buyer purchases a product or service on the website will they be
        sent an invitation to rate the product.
    2. Products can only be rated by invitation.
    3. Once a new buyer's value for money rating is received on the website then the
        rating score, the number of ratings and the average price for the rating score for
        that product will be automatically updated in real time.
    4. Ratings can be then be further filtered by price to isolate a more precise rating
        score reflecting the value for money average rating score from other buyers who
        have previously purchased that product or service at that particular price.
    5. Sellers can triangulate the rating score, price point and quantity sold over a
        specified period of time at each price point for each of their individual products or
        services.
Background and Need
This invention benefits both buyers and sellers by providing a new rating metric, in
addition to the rating score and number of ratings, that being the average price that
each buyer rating the product or service actually paid. This presently doesn't exist.
It allows buyers to enjoy the benefit of being able to research the value for money of any
particular product or service more precisely and help make better buying decisions
before purchasing.
Sellers can also access rating scores in combination with the quantity sold at various
price points over selected periods of time to determine the optimum price to sell their
products or services
As prices can vary buyers should have an understanding of the actual average price
point that a rating score is reflecting to get a true value for money user reference.
Unlike current product rating systems buyers using Evalurate can now access a rating
score that reflects the actual price at which the product is currently being offered.

Evalurate therefore allows buyers to make far more informed choices with regard to
satisfying their requirement to find the best value for money products or services.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Key Claims of the Invention
 1. Evalurate only allows product or service ratings, reflecting a value for money
    opinion, from buyers who have actually purchased the product or service on a
    specific website.
 2. Pricing for a product or service can vary over time and a product or service rating
    will reflect a buyers opinion of that product or service's value for money at each
    purchased price point.
 3. Considering the price fluctuations Evalurate accumulates all of the ratings with
    each products pricing details to determine the average price for each average
    rating.
 4. Buyers can quickly compare the average price relating to the price currently
    being offered to add more relevance to the product or service rating.
 5. Buyers can also enter the price they are to be charged to filter out the specific
    ratings that relate to that price point.
 6. Sellers can access the data to triangulate the price, rating and units sold for a
    specific quantity to assist in optimising the price point to maximise sales and
    profit margin.

                  Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                    <removed-apn>
              There are two pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
