                                             Abstract
           Isolated cells are described that are not embryonic stem cells, not embryonic
   germ cells, and not germ cells. The cells can differentiate into at least one cell type of
   each of at least two of the endoderial, ectodermal, and mesodermal lineages. The cells
 5 do not provoke a harmful immune response. The cells can modulate immune responses.
   As an example, the cells can suppress an immune response in a host engendered by
   allogeneic cells, tissues, and organs. Methods are described for using the cells, by
   themselves or adjunctively, to treat subjects. For instance, the cells can be used
   adjunctively for immunosuppression in transplant therapy. Methods for obtaining the
10 cells and compositions for using them also are described.

         IMMUNOMODULATORY PROPERTIES OF MULTIPOTENT ADULT
                       PROGENITOR CELLS AND USES THEREOF
           The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
 5 No. <removed-apn>, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
                               Reference to Related Applications
           This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Application Serial No.
   11/269,736 filed 9 November 2005, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Application
10 Serial No. 11/151,689 filed 13 June 2005, which is a continuation in part of U.S.
   Application Serial No. 10/963,444 filed 11 October 2004 (abandoned), which is a
   continuation-in-part of U.S. Application Serial No. 10/048,757 filed 1 February 2002,
   which is a U.S. national stage application of PCT/USOO/21387 filed 4 August 2000 and
   published in English as WO 01/11011 on 15 February 2001, which claims priority under
15 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) from U.S. Provisional Application Serial Nos. 60/147,324 filed 5
   August 1999 and 60/164,650 filed 10 November 1999, and a continuation-in-part of U.S.
   Application Serial No. 10/467,963 filed 11 August 2003, which is a U.S. national stage
   application of PCT/US02/04652 filed 14 February 2002 and published in English as WO
   02/064748 on 22 August 2002, which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) from
20 U.S. Provisional Application Serial Nos. 60/268,786 filed 14 February 2001, 60/269,062
   filed 15 February 2001, 60/310,625 filed 7 August 2001, and 60/343,836 filed 25
   October 2001, all of which applications and publications are incorporated herein by
   reference in their entirety and of which full benefit of priority is claimed for the present
   application.
25
                                      Field of the Invention
           The field of the invention is immunomodulation by multipotent adult progenitor
   cells ("MAPCs") and their use for modulating immune responses in primary and
   adjunctive therapies.
                                                 1

                                 Background of the Invention
          The therapeutic use of organ transplants, including bone marrow transplants, has
  steadily increased since its early beginnings. It has become an important therapeutic
  option for a number of diseases, including, but not limited to, hematologic,
5 immunologic, and malignant disorders.
                                               1a

           Unfortunately, the therapeutic uses of transplantation often are complicated,
   rendered ineffectual, or precluded by adverse immune responses engendered by the
   transplant. Among the most prominent adverse reactions encountered as a result of
   transplant therapies are (i) the host versus graft response ("HVG") (rejection of the
   transplant by an immune competent host), and (ii) graft versus host disease ("GVHD")
   (processes that occur primarily in an immunocompromised host when it is recognized as
   non-self by immunocompetent cells of a graft).
           Graft rejection in a host can be avoided, of course, by perfectly matching the
   donor and the host. Except for autologous tissue, however, only identical twins might
  be expected to be truly syngeneic. Perfect matches between an individual donor and
  another individual host/recipient are virtually non-existent. Thus, the use of autologous
  tissue is the only other way to make a perfect match. Unfortunately, the host tissue is
  typically not suitable or was not isolated in advance of need. Frequently the need for the
 transplant therapy is, in fact, to replace damaged tissue in the host. The use of syngeneic
 tissue, therefore, while an effective solution to the problems of adverse host response to
 graft tissue, is not generally useful in practical applications.
          If syngeneic matching is not possible, the adverse immune effects that arise in
 transplant therapies can be mitigated by matching an allogeneic donor and host as
 closely as possible. Blood and/or tissue typing is used to match donors and hosts to
 provide the highest likelihood of therapeutic success. Even the closest matching of
 allogeneic tissue, however, does not prevent serious HVG, and, accordingly, transplant
 therapies involve the use of immunosuppression and immunosuppressive drugs, as
 discussed below.
          Another approach to avoid the complications of HVG in transplant therapies has
been to disable the immune system of the recipient host. This has been accomplished by
using radiation therapy, and/or immunosuppressive chemotherapy, and/or antibody
therapy. The resulting suppression of host immune responses often quite effectively
aids establishment of the graft (such as bone marrow) in the host. However,
immunoablation or suppression compromises the host's immune defenses. This results
in the host becoming all too readily susceptible to infections after even minor exposure
to infectious agents. The resulting infections are a major cause of morbidity and
mortality among transplant patients.
                                                2

           Compromising the host immune system also engenders or exacerbates another
  serious problem encountered in transplant therapies - graft versus host disease
  ("GVHD"). GVHD occurs when donor tissue contains immunocompetent cells that
  recognize MHC proteins of the recipient as non-self. This activates the T-cells, and they
  secrete cytokines, such as IL-2 (interleukin 2), IFNy (interferon gamma), and TNFa
  (tumor necrosis factor alpha). These signals bigger an immune attack on recipient
  targets including the skin, GI tract, liver, and lymphoid organs (Ferrara and Deeg, 1991).
   GVHD is particularly a problem in bone marrow transplants, where it has been shown
 to be mediated primarily by T lymphocytes (Grebe and Streilein, 1976). In fact,
 approximately 50% of bone marrow transplant patients develop acute GVHD. Many of
 these patients die (from 15% to 45%).
          There are also other immune system dysfunctions, disorders, and diseases that
 arise as primary pathologies and as secondary effects of other pathologies and/or
 treatments thereof. These include neoplasms, pathologies of the bone marrow,
 pathologies of the blood, autoimmune disorders, and some inflammatory disorders, as
 discussed farther below. Primary and adjunctive therapy for these disorders and
 diseases, like primary and adjunctive therapies for HVG and GVHD, often involve the
 use of immunosuppressive drugs. All of the current therapies have disadvantages and
 side effects.
 immunosuporessant Drugs
         A good deal of effort has been directed to developing drugs to treat these
immune system dysfunctions to ameliorate or eliminate their deleterious effects, without
causing additional harmful side effects. There has been some progress toward this goal,
and a number of drugs have been developed and are in use to prevent and/or treat these
dysfunctions. The introduction of the more effective of these drugs marked a great
advance in the medical practice of transplant therapies; but, none are ideal. Indeed,
none of the immunosuppressive drugs currently available for clinical use in transplant
therapies are entirely effective. All of the drugs have serious drawbacks and deleterious
side effects, as summarized briefly below. For review see Farag (2004), "Chronic graft
                                                3

  versus-host disease: where do we go from here?," Bone Marrow Transplantation 33:
   569-577.
           Corticosteroids, which are used primarily to treat inflammation and
  inflammatory diseases, are known to be immunosuppressive and are considered by
  many to be the best primary treatment for HVG and GVHD. They inhibit T-cell
  proliferation and T-cell dependent immune responses, at least in part, by inhibiting the
  expression of certain cytokine genes involved in T-cell activation and T-cell dependent
  immune response.
           Cyclosporin is among the most frequently used drugs for immune suppression
  and the prevention of HVG and GVHD. It is strongly immunosuppressive in general.
  Although it can be effective in reducing adverse immune reactions in transplant patients,
  it also weakens the immune system so much that patients are left highly vulnerable to
 infections. Consequently, patients are much more easily infected by exposure
 pathogens, and have little capacity to mount an effective immune response to infections.
   Even mild pathogens then can be life-threatening. Cyclosporin also causes a variety of
 other undesirable side effects.
          Methotrexate is also widely used in the prophylaxis and treatment of HVG and
 GVHD, by itself or in combination with other drugs. Studies have shown that, if it is
 effective at all, it is apparently less effective than cyclosporin. As with cyclosporin,
 methotrexate causes a variety of side effects, some of which can be deleterious to patient
 health.
          FK-506 is a macrolide-like compound. Similar to cyclosporin, it is derived from
 fungal sources. The immunosuppressive effects of cyclosporin and FK-506 are similar.
  They block early events of T-cell activation by forming a heterodimeric complex with
 their respective cytoplasmie receptor proteins (i.e., cyclophilin and FK-binding protein).
  This then inhibits the phosphatase activity of calcineurin, thereby ultimately inhibiting
the expression of nuclear regulatory proteins and T-cell activation genes.
          Other drugs that have been used for immunosuppression include antithymocyte
globulin, azathioprine, and cyclophosphamide. They have not proven to be
advantageous. Rapamycin, another macrolide-like compound which interferes with the
response of T-cells to IL-2, also has been used to block T-cell activated immune
response. RS-61443, a derivative of mycophenolic acid, has been found to inhibit
                                                  4

   allograft rejection in experimental animals. Mizoribine, an imidazole nucleoside, blocks
   the purine biosynthetic pathway and inhibits mitogen stimulated T- and B-cell
   proliferation in a manner similar to azathioprine and RS-61443. Deoxyspergualin, a
   synthetic analog of spergualin, has been found to exert immunosuppressive properties in
  pre-clinical transplantation models. The anti-metabolite brequinar sodium is an
  inhibitor of dihydro-orotate dehydrogenase and blocks formation of the nucleotides
  uridine and cytidine via inhibition of pyrimidine synthesis. Berberine and its
  pharmacologically tolerable salts have been used as an iamunosuppressant for treating
  autoimmune diseases such as rheumatism, for treating allergies, and for preventing graft
  rejection. It has been reported that berberine inhibits B-cell antibody production and
  generally suppresses humoral immune responses, but does not affect T-cell propagation.
   See Japanese Patent 07-316051 and US Patent No. 6,245,781.
           None of these immunosuppressive drugs, whether used alone or in combination
 with other agents, are fully effective. All of them generally leave patients still
 susceptible to HVG and GVHD and weaken their ability to defend against infection.
 This renders them much more susceptible to infection and much less able to fight off
 infections when they do occur. Furthermore, all of these drugs cause serious side
 effects, including, for instance, gastrointestinal toxicity, nephrotoxicity,
                                                                              hypertension,
 myelosuppression, hepatotoxicity, hypertension, and gum hypertrophy, among others.
 None of them have proven to be a fully acceptable or effective treatment. In sum, given
 these drawbacks, there is at present no entirely satisfactory pharmaceutically based
treatment for adverse immune system dysfunction and/or responses such as HVG and
GVHD.
          It has long been thought that a more specific type of immune suppression might
be developed without these drawbacks. For example, an agent that suppressed or
eliminated alloreactive T-cells, specifically, would be effective against HVG and GVHD
(at least for allogeneic grafts) without the deleterious side effects that occur with agents
that globally attack and compromise the immune system. However, as yet, no such
agent(s) have been developed.
Use of Restricted Stem Cells In Transplantation
                                               5

            The use of stem cells in lieu of or together with immunosuppressive agents has
   recently attracted interest. There have been some encouraging observations in this area.
    A variety of stem cells have been isolated and characterized in recent years. They range
   from those of highly restricted differentiation potential and limited ability to grow in
   culture to those with apparently unrestricted differentiation potential and unlimited
   ability to grow in culture. The former have generally been the easier to derive and can
   be obtained from a variety of adult tissues. The latter have had to be derived from germ
   cells and embryos, and are called embryonal stem ("ES") cells, embryonal germ ("EG")
   cells, and germ cells. The embryonal stem ("ES") cell has unlimited self-renewal and
   can differentiate into all tissue types. ES cells are derived from the inner cell mass of
  the blastocyst. Embryonal germ ('T"G) cells we derived from primordial germ cells of
  a post-implantation embryo. Stem cells derived from adult tissue have been of limited
  value because they are immunogenic, have limited differentiation potential, and have
  limited ability to propagate in culture, ES, EG, and germ cells do not suffer from these
  disadvantages, but they have a marked propensity to form teratomas in allogeneic
                                                                                        hosts,
 raising due concern for their use in medical treatments. For this reason, there is
 pessimism about their utility in clinical applications, despite their advantageously broad
 differentiation potential. Stem cells derived from embryos also are subject to ethical
 controversies that may impede their use in treating disease.
           Some efforts to find an alternative to ES, EG, and germ cells have focused on
 cells derived from adult tissue. While adult stem cells have been identified in most
 tissues of mammals, their differentiation potential is restricted and considerably more
 narrow than that of ES, EG, and germ cells. Indeed many such cells can give rise only
 to one or a few differentiated cell types, and many others are restricted to a single
 embryonic lineage.
           For instance, hematopoietic stem cells can differentiate only to form cells of the
 hematopoietic lineage, neural stem cells differentiate into cells only of neuroectodermal
 origin, and mesenchymal stem cells ("MSCs") are limited to cells of mesenchymal
 origin. For the reasons noted above regarding the limitations, risks, and controversies of
and relating to ES, EG, and germ cells, a substantial portion of work on the use of stem
cells in transplantation therapies has utilized MSCs. Results of the last few years appear
to show that allografts of MSCs do not engender a HVG immune reaction, which is a
                                                6

    response invariably seen when other tissue is transplanted between allogeneic
    individuals. Moreover, the results suggest that MSCs weaken lymphocyte immune
   response, at least in some circumstances.
            While these results immediately suggest that MSCs might be useful to decrease
   HVG and/or GVHD that ordinarily would accompany allogeneic transplantation, the
   observed immunosuppressive effects of MSCs were highly dose dependent, and
   relatively high doses were required to observe an immunosuppressive effect. In fact,
   decreased proliferation of lymphocytes ii mixed lymphocyte assays in vitro was
   "marked" only at or above a 1:10 ratio of MSCs to lymphocytes. Furthermore, the
  observed inhibitory effect decreased and became unobservable as the dose of MSCs
  decreased, and at ratios below 1:100 the presence of MSCs actually seemed to stimulate
  proliferation of the T-cells. The same dose effects also were observed in mitogen
  stimulated lymphocyte proliferation assays. See, for review, Ryan et al. (2005)
  "Mesenchymal stem cells avoid allogeneic rejection," J. Inflammation 2: 8; Le Blanc
  (2003) "Immunomodulatory effects of fetal and adult mesenchymal stem cells,"
  Cytotherapy 5(6): 485-489, and Jorgensen et al. (2003) "Engineering mesenchymal
 stem cells for immunotherapy," Gene Therapy 10: 928-931. Additional results are
 summarized below.
           For example, Bartholomew and co-workers found that baboon MSCs did not
 stimulate allogeneic lymphocytes to proliferate in vitro and that MSCs reduced
 proliferation of mitogen-stimulated lymphocytes by more than 50% in mixed
 lymphocyte assays in vitro. They further showed that administration of MSCs in vivo
prolonged skin graft survival (relative to controls). Both the in vitro results and the in
vivo results required a high dose of MSCs: 1:1 ratio with the lymphocytes for the in
vitro results. The amount of MSCs that would be required to approach such a ratio in
vivo in humans may be too high to achieve, as a practical matter. This may limit the
utility of MSCs. See Bartholomew et al. (2002): "Mesenchymal stem cells suppress
lymphocyte proliferation in vitro and prolong skin graft survival in vivo," Experimental
Hematoloav 30: 42-48.
          Maitra and co-workers examined the effects of human MSCs on engrafiment of
allogeneic human umbilical cord blood cells after co-infusion into sub-lethally irradiated
NOD-SCID mice. They found that human MSCs promoted engrafbnent and did not
                                             7

    activate allogeneic T-cells in in vitro proliferation assays. They also found that human
    MSCs suppressed in vitro activation of allogeneic human T-cells by mitogens. The
    effects were dose dependent and relatively high ratios were required for suppression.
    (Maitra et al. (2004) Bone Marrow Trans lantation 33: 597-604.)
            Recently, Le Blanc and co-workers reported successfully treating one patient
   with Grade IV acute GVHD, which usually is fatal, by administration of "third party
   haploidentical" MSCs. The patient was a 9-year old boy with acute lymphoblastic
   leukemia, which was in its third remission. Initially, the patient was treated with
   radiation and cyclophophamide and then given blood cells that were identical to his own
   cells at the HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-DRbetal loci. These had been obtained from an
   unrelated female donor. Despite aggressive treatment, including dosing with a variety
   of immunosuppressants, by 70 days after transplant the patient developed Grade IV
   acute GVHD. He was frequently afflicted by invasive bacterial, viral, and fungal
  infections.
           Under these clearly dire circumstances, an alternative blood stem cell transplant
  was attempted. Haploidentical MSCs were isolated from the patients mother and
  expanded in vitro for three weeks. The cells were harvested and 2 x 10' cells per,
  kilogram were administered to the patient intravenously. There were no signs of
  toxicity associated with the MSCs, nor were there substantial side effects. Many
  symptoms resolved within a few days after the transplant; but, residual disease was
  apparent. After several additional intravenous injections of MSCs using the same
 methods, the patient's symptoms and GVHD were filly resolved. The patient was still
 disease free one year after discharge. According to the authors, in their experience, this
 patient is unique in surviving GVHD of this severity. The results reported by Le Blanc
 et al. are both promising and inspiring, and should be a spur to developing effective
 therapies that utilize stem cells. Le Blanc et al. (2004) "Treatment of severe acute graft
 versus-host disease with third party haploidentical mesenchymal stem cells," Lance
 363: 1439-41.
          Nevertheless, these results, including those of Le Blanc and co-workers, reveal
potential shortcomings of MSCs. The cells need to be administered with traditional
immunosuppressive modalities which then will continue to engender deleterious
immune responses. The dosing requirements for MSCs apparently will need to be very
                                                 8

  high to be effective, which will incur greater cost, more difficulty in administration,
  greater risk of toxicity and other harmful side effects, and other disadvantages.
           In view of these limitations of current stem cell based transplantation-related
  therapies, there is clearly a strong need for progenitor cells that can be used for all - or
  at least most - recipient hosts without necessitating a host-recipient haplotype match.
 Further, there is a need for cells of greater "specific activity" so that they are
 therapeutically effective at lower doses and their administration does not pose the
 problems associated with the high dosing regimens required for beneficial results using
 MSCs. And, there is a need for cells that have essentially unlimited differentiation
 potential to form cells that occur in the organism of interest.
          Accordingly, there has been a need for cells that have the self-renewing and
 differentiation capacity of ES, EG, and germ cells but are not immunogenic; do not form
 teratomas when allografted or xenografted to a host; do not pose other safety issues
 associated with ES, EG, and germ cells; retain the other advantages of ES, EG, and
 germ cells; are easy to isolate from readily available sources, such as placenta, umbilical
 cord, umbilical cord blood, blood, and bone marrow; can be stored safely for extended
periods; can be obtained easily and without risk to volunteers, donors or patients, and
others giving consent; and do not entail the technical and logistical difficulties involved
in obtaining and working with ES, EG, and germ cells.
          Recently, a type of cell, called herein multipotent adult progenitor cells
("IAPCs"), has been isolated and characterized (see, for instance, US Patent No.
7,015,037, which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety). ("MAPCs" also
may be referred to as "MASCs.") These cells provide many of the advantages of ES,
EG, and germ cells without many of their drawbacks. For example, MAPCs are capable
of indefinite culture without loss of their differentiation potential. They show efficient,
long term engraftment and differentiation along multiple developmental lineages in
NOD-SCID mice and do so without evidence of teratoma formation (often seen with
ES, EG, and germ cells) (Reyes, M. and C.M. Verfaillie (2001) Ann N Y Acad Sci. 938:
 231-5).
                                                9

                                    Summary of the Invention
           In some of its embodiments, therefore, the invention provides cells that: (i) are
   not embryonic stem cells, not embryonic germ cells, and not germ cells; (ii) can
   differentiate into at least one cell type of each of at least two of the endodermal,
   ectodermal, and mesodennal embryonic lineages; (iii) do not provoke a deleterious
  immune response upon introduction to a non-syngeneic subject; and (iv) can modulate
  an immune response upon introduction into a subject. In certain embodiments in this
  regard, the invention provides cells that, in addition to the foregoing, are
  immunosuppressive. Furthermore, various embodiments of the invention provide cells
  in accordance with the foregoing that have immunomodulatory properties that are useful
  for treating, such as to preclude, prevent, ameliorate, lessen, decrease, minimize,
  eliminate, and/or cure deleterious immune responses and/or processes in a host. In
  some embodiments of the invention the cells are used in this regard alone or together
 with other therapeutic agents and modalities as primary therapeutic modalities. In some
 embodiments of the invention the cells are used in an adjunctive therapeutic modality in
 which they may be used either as the sole therapeutic agent or together with other
 therapeutic agents. In some embodiments of the invention the cells are used, alone or
 with other therapeutic agents or modalities, both in one or more primary therapeutic
 modalities and in one or move adjunctive therapeutic modalities.
          Cells in accordance with the invention are described in greater detail herein and
 generally are referred to herein as "multipotent adult progenitor cells" and by the
 acronyms "MAPC" (singular) and "MAPCs" (plural). It is to be appreciated that these
cells are not ES, not EG, and not germ cells, and that they have the capacity to
differentiate into cell types of at least two of the three primitive germ layer lineages
(ectoderm, mesoderm, and endoderm), e.g., into cells of all three primitive lineages.
          For instance, MAPCs can form the following cells and other cells of the lineages
thereof: splanchnic mesodermal cells, muscle cells, bone cells, cartilage cells, endocrine
cells, exocrine cells, endothelial cells, hair forming cells, teeth forming cells, visceral
mesodermal cells, hematopoietic cells, stromal cells, marrow stromal cells, neuronal
cells, neuroectodermal cells, epithelial cells, ocular cells, pancreatic cells, and
hepatocyte-like cells, among many others. Among cells formed by MAPCs are
osteoblasts, chondroblasts, adipocytes, skeletal muscle cells, skeletal myocytes, biliary
                                                 10

   epithelial cells, pancreatic acinary cells, mesangial cells, smooth muscle cells, cardiac
   muscle cells, cardionyocytes, osteocytes, vascular tube forming cells, oligodendrocytes,
   neurons, including serotonergic, GABAergic, dopaminergic neurons, glial cells,
   microglial cells, pancreatic epithelial cells, gut epithelial cells, liver epithelial cells, skin
   epithelial cells, kidney epithelial cells, renal epithelial cells, pancreatic islet cells,
   fibroblasts, hepatocytes, and other cells of the same lineages as the foregoing, among
  many others.
           MAPCs have telomerase activity necessary for self-renewal and thought to be
  necessary for maintaining an undifferentiated state. Generally they also express oct-3/4.
    Oct-3/4 (oct-3A in humans) is otherwise specific to ES, EG, and germ cells. It is
  considered to be a marker of undifferentiated cells that have broad differentiation
  abilities. Oct-3/4 also is generally thought to have a role in maintaining a cell in an
  undifferentiated state. Oct-4 (oct-3 in humans) is a transcription factor expressed in the
  pregastrulation embryo, early cleavage stage embryo, cells of the inner cell mass of the
 blastocyst, and embryonic carcinoma ("EC") cells (Nichols, J. et al. (1998) Cell 95:
  379-91), and is down-regulated when cells are induced to differentiate. The oct-4 gene
 (oct-3 in humans) is transcribed into at least two splice variants in humans, oct-3A and
 oct-3B. The oct-3B splice variant is found in many differentiated cells whereas the oct
 3A splice variant (also previously designated oct-3/4) is reported to be specific for the
 undifferentiated embryonic stem cell. See Shimozaki et al. (2003) Development 130:
 2505-12. Expression of oct-3/4 plays an important role in determining early steps in
 embryogenesis and differentiation. Oct-3/4, in combination with rox-1, causes
 transcriptional activation of the Zn-finger protein rex-1, which is also required for
 maintaining ES cells in an undifferentiated state (Rosford, E. and Rizzino, A. (1997)
Biochem Biohys Res Commun 203: 1795-802; Ben-Shushan, E. et al. (1998) Mol Cell
Biol 18: 1866-78).
          MAPCs generally also express other markers thought to be specific to primitive
stem cells. Among these are rex-1, rox-1, and sox-2. Rex-i is controlled
                                                                                   by oct-3/4,
which activated downstream expression of rex-1. Rox-1 and sox-2 are expressed in
non-ES cells.
          Various embodiments of the invention provide methods for using MAPCs for
precluding, preventing, treating, ameliorating, lessening, decreasing, minimizing,
                                                 11

   eliminating, and/or curing a disease and/or an adverse immune response and/or
   processes in a subject. Certain embodiments of the invention provide methods for using
   the cells by themselves as a primary therapeutic modality. In some embodiments of the
  invention the cells are used together with one or more other agents and/or therapeutic
  modalities as the primary therapeutic modality. In some embodiments of the invention
  the cells are used as an adjunctive therapeutic modality, that is, as an adjunct to another,
  primary therapeutic modality. In some embodiments the cells are used as the sole active
  agent of an adjunctive therapeutic modality. In others the cells are used as an adjunctive
  therapeutic modality together with one or more other agents or therapeutic modalities.
  In some embodiments the cells are used both as primary and as adjunctive therapeutic
  agents and/or modalities. In both regards, the cells can be used alone in the primary
  and/or in the adjunctive modality. They also can be used together with other therapeutic
  agents or modalities, in the primary or in the adjunctive modality or both.
           As discussed above, a primary treatment, such as a therapeutic agent, therapy,
 and/or therapeutic modality, targets (that is, is intended to act on) the primary
 dysfunction, such as a disease, that is to be treated. An adjunctive treatment, such as a
 therapy and/or a therapeutic modality, can be administered in combination with a
 primary treatment, such as a therapeutic agent, therapy, and/or therapeutic modality, to
 act on the primary dysfunction, such as a disease, and supplement the effect of the
 primary treatment, thereby increasing the overall efficacy of the treatment regimen. An
 adjunctive treatment, such as an agent, therapy, and/or therapeutic modality, also can be
 administered to act on complications and/or side effects of a primary dysfimction, such
 as a disease, and/or those caused by a treatment, such as a therapeutic agent,
                                                                                 therapy,
 and/or therapeutic modality. In regard to any of these uses, one, two, three, or more
primary treatments may be used together with one, two, three, or more adjunctive
treatments.
          In some embodiments MAFCs are administered to a subject prior to onset of a
dysfunction, such as a disease, side effect, and/or deleterious immune response. In some
embodiments the cells are administered while the dysfunction is developing. In some
embodiments the cells are administered after the dysfunction has been established.
Cells can be administered at any stage in the development, persistence, and/or
propagation of the dysfunction or after it recedes.
                                              12

            As discussed above, embodiments of the invention provide cells and methods for
    primary or adjunctive therapy. In certain embodiments of the invention, the cells are
    administered to an allogeneic subject. In some embodiments they are autologous to the
   subject. In some embodiments they are syngeneic to the subject. In some embodiments
   the cells are xenogeneic to a subject. Whether allogeneic, autologous, syngeneic, or
   xenogeneic, in various embodiments of the invention the MAPCs are weakly
   immunogenic or are non-immunogenic in the subject. In some embodiments the
   MAPCs have sufficiently low immunogenicity or are non-inmunogenic and are
   sufficiently free of deleterious immune responses in general, that when administered to
  allogeneic subjects they can be used as "universal" donor cells without tissue typing and
  matching. In accordance with various embodiments of the invention the MAPCs can
  also be stored and maintained in cell banks, and thus can be kept available for use when
  needed.
           In all of these regards and others, embodiments of the invention provide MAPCs
  from mammals, including in one embodiment humans, and in other embodiments non
 human primates, rats and mice, and dogs, pigs, goats; sheep, horses, and cows. MAPCs
 prepared from mammals as described above can be used in all of the methods and other
 aspects of the invention described herein.
           MAPCs in accordance with various embodiments of the invention can be
 isolated from a variety of compartments and tissues of such mammals, including but not
 limited to, bone marrow, blood, spleen, liver, muscle, brain, and others discussed below.
  MAPCs in some embodiments are cultured before use.
          In some embodiments MAPCs are genetically engineered, such as to improve
their immunomodulatory properties. In some embodiments genetically engineered
MAPCs are produced by in vitro culture. In some embodiments genetically engineered
MAPCs are produced from a transgenic organism.
          In various embodiments the MAPCs are administered to a subject by any route
for effective delivery of cell therapeutics. In some embodiments the cells are
administered by injection, including local and/or systemic injection. In certain
embodiments the cells are administered within and/or in proximity to the site of the
dysfunction they are intended to treat. In some embodiments, the cells are administered
by injection at a location not in proximity to the site of the dysfimction. In some
                                                13

    embodiments the cells are administered by systemic injection, such as intravenous
    injection.
             In some embodiments, MAPCs are administered one time, two times, three
    times, or more than three times until a desired therapeutic effect is achieved or
    administration no longer appears to be likely to provide a benefit to the subject. In some
    embodiments MAPCs are administered continuously for a period of time, such as by
   intravenous drip. Administration of MAPCs may be for a short period of time, for days,
   for weeks, for months, for years, or for longer periods of time.
            The following numbered paragraphs describe a few illustrative embodiments of
   the invention that exemplify some of its aspects and features. They are not exhaustive
   in illustrating its many aspects and embodiments, and thus are not in any way limitative
   of the invention. Many other aspects, features, and embodiments of the invention are
  described herein. Many other aspects and embodiments will be readily apparent to those
  skilled in the art upon reading the application and giving it due consideration in the full
  light of the prior art and knowledge in the field.
           The numbered paragraphs below are self-referential. The phrase "according to
  any of the foregoing or the following' refers to all of the preceding and all of the
  following numbered paragraphs and their contents. All phrases of the form "according
  to #" are direct references to that numbered paragraph, e.g., "according to 46." means
  according to paragraph 46. in this collection of numbered paragraphs. All cross
 references are combinatorial, except for redundancies and inconsistencies of scope. The
 cross-references are used explicitly to provide a concise description showing the
 inclusion of the various combinations of subject matter with one another.
           1.      A method of treating an immune dysfunction in a subject, comprising:
 administering to a subject likely to suffer, suffering, or who has suffered from an
 immune dysfunction, by an effective route and in an effective amount to treat the
 immune dysfunction, cells (MAPCs) that: are not embryonic stem cells, embryonic
germ cells, or germ cells; can differentiate into at least one cell type of each of at least
two of the endodermal, ectodermal, and mesodermal embryonic lineages; do not
provoke a deleterious immune response in the subject; and are effective to treat the
immune dysfunction.
                                              14

           2.      A method of adjunctive treatment of a subject, comprising:
   administering to a subject likely to suffer, suffering, or who has suffered from an
   immune dysfunction, by an effective route and in an effective amount to treat the
   immune dysfunction, cells (MAPCs) that: are not embryonic stem cells, embryonic
   germ cells, or germ cells; can differentiate into at least one cell type of each of at least
  two of the endodermal, ectodermal, and mesodermal embryonic lineages; do not
  provoke a deleterious immune response in the subject; and are effective to treat the
  immune dysfunction, wherein the cells are administered adjunctively to one or more
  other treatments administered to the subject to treat the same thing, to treat something
  different, or both.
           3.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells can differentiate into at least one cell type of each of the endodermal,
  ectodermal, and mesodermal embryonic lineages.
          4.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells express telomerase.
          5.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are positive for oct-3/4.
          6.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells have undergone at least 10 to 40 cell doublings in culture prior to their
 administration to the subject.
          7.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are mammalian cells.
          8.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are human, horse, cow, goat, sheep, pig, rat or mouse cells.
         9.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are human, rat, or mouse cells.
          10.    A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
said cells are human cells.
         11.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
said cells are derived from cells isolated from any of placental tissue, umbilical cord
tissue, umbilical cord blood, bone marrow, blood, spleen tissue, thymus tissue, spinal
cord tissue, adipose tissue, and liver tissue.
                                                15

            12.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
   said cells are derived from cells isolated from any of placental tissue, umbilical cord
   tissue, umbilical cord blood, bone marrow, blood, and spleen tissue.
            13.    A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
   said cells are derived from cells isolated from any of placental tissue, umbilical cord
  tissue, umbilical cord blood, bone marrow, or blood.
            14.    A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells are derived from cells isolated from any one or more of bone marrow or blood.
            15.    A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells are allogeneic to the subject.
           16.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells are xenogeneic to the subject.
           17.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells are autologous to the subject.
           18.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following wherein the
 subject is a mammal.
           19.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following wherein the
 subject is a mammalian pet animal, a mammalian livestock animal, a mammalian
 research animal, or a non-human primate.
          20.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
the subject is a human.
          21.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
said cells are administered to the subject in one or more doses comprising 10 to 10' of
said cells per kilogram of the subject's mass.
          22.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
said cells are administered to the subject in one or more doses comprising 105 to 107 of
said cells per kilogram of the subject's mass.
          23.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
said cells are administered to the subject in one or more doses comprising 5 x 106 to 5
                                                                                           x
    7
10 of said cells per kilogram of the subject's mass.
                                               16

            24.    A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
   said cells are administered to the subject in one or more doses comprising 2 x 107 to 4 x
   107 of said cells per kilogram of the subjects mass.
           25.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein in
   addition to said cells, one or more factors are administered to said subject
           26.     A method acconling to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein in
  addition to said cells, one or more growth factors, differentiation factors, signaling
  factors, and/or factors that increase homing are administered to said subject.
           27.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein in
  addition to said cells, one or more cytokines are administered to said subject.
           28.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells are administered to a subject adjunctively to another treatment that is
  administered before, at the same time as, or after said cells are administered.
          29.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells are administered to the subject adjunctively to administration to the subject of
 one or more immunosuppressive agents.
          30.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein in
 addition to treatment with said cells, the subject is to receive or has received a
 transplant wherein said cells are administered adjunctively thereto.
          31.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein in
 addition to treatment with said cells, the subject is to receive or has received a transplant
 of a kidney, heart, lung, liver, or other organ, wherein said cells are administered
 adjunctively thereto.
          32.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein in
addition to treatment with said cells, the subject is to receive or has received a transplant
of bone marrow, vein, artery, muscle, or other tissue, wherein said cells are administered
adjunctively thereto.
         33.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein in
addition to treatment with said cells, the subject is to receive or has received a transplant
of blood cells, islet cells, or other tissue or organ regenerating cells, wherein said cells
are administered adjunctively thereto.
                                                17

            34.    A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein in
   addition to treatment with said cells, the subject is to receive or has received a blood cell
  transplant, wherein said cells are administered adjunctively thereto.
           35.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein in
  addition to treatment with said cells, the subject is to receive or has received a bone
  marrow transplant, wherein said cells are administered adjunctively thereto.
           36.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein in
  addition to treatment with said cells, the subject has been, will be, or is being treated
  with one or more immunosuppressive agents, wherein said cells are administered
  adjunctively thereto.
           37.    A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein in
 addition to treatment with said cells, the subject has been, will be, or is being treated
 with one or more of a corticosteroid, cyclosporin A, a cyclosporin-like
 immunosuppressive agent, cyclophosphamide, antithymocyte globulin, azathioprine,
 rapamycin, FK-506, and a macrolide-like immunosuppressive agent other than FK-506,
 rapamycin, and an immunosuppressive monoclonal antibody agent (i.e., an
 immunosuppressive that is an immunosuppressive monoclonal antibody or is an agent
 comprising a monoclonal antibody, in whole or in one or more parts, such as a chimeric
 protein comprising an Fc or a Ag binding site of a monoclonal antibody), wherein said
 cells are administered adjunctively thereto.
          38.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein in
 addition to treatment with said cells, the subject has been, will be, or is being treated
with one or more of a corticosteroid, cyclosporin A, azathioprine, rapamycin,
cyclophosphamide, FK-506, or an immunosuppressive monoclonal antibody agent,
wherein said cells are administered adjunctively thereto.
         39.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
said cells are administered to the subject adjunctively to administration to the subject of
one or more antibiotic agents.
         40.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
said cells are administered to the subject adjunctively to administration to the subject of
one or more anti-fungal agents.
                                               18

            41.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
   said cells are administered to the subject adjunctively to administration to the subject of
   one or more anti-viral agents.
            42.    A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
   said cells are administered to the subject adjunctively to the administration to the subject
   of any combination of two or more of any immunosuppressive agents and/or antibiotic
   agents and/or anti-fingal agents and/or anti-viral agents.
           43.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells are administered to the subject adjunctively to a transplant therapy to treat a
  host versus graft response in the subject that is impairing or might impair the therapeutic
  efficacy of the transplant and/or is or might result in transplant rejection.
           44.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells are administered to a subject having a weakened immune system, such as one
  or more of a compromised immune system and/or an ablated immune system.
          45.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells are administered to a subject adjunctively to radiation therapy or
  chemotherapy or a combination of radiation and chemotherapy that either have been, are
  being, or will be administered to the subject.
          46.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells are administered to a subject adjunctively to an on-going regimen of radiation
 therapy or chemotherapy or a combination of radiation and chemotherapy.
          47.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
 immune system of the subject has been weakened, compromised, and/or or ablated by
 radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or a combination of radiation and chemotherapy.
          48.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
 subject is the recipient of a non-syngeneic blood cell or bone marrow transplant, the
immune system of the subject has been weakened or ablated by radiation therapy,
chemotherapy, or a combination of radiation and chemotherapy, and the subject is at
risk to develop or has developed graft versus host disease.
         49.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
subject is the recipient of a non-syngeneic blood cell or bone marrow transplant, the
immune system of the subject has been weakened or ablated by radiation therapy, by
                                               19

   chemotherapy, or by a combination of radiation therapy and chemotherapy, and
   immunosuppressive drugs are being administered to the subject, wherein further the
  subject is at risk to develop or has developed graft versus host disease and said cells are
  administered to said subject to treat graft versus host disease adjunctively to one or more
  of the other treatments (that is: the transplant, the radiation therapy, the chemotherapy,
  and/or the immunosuppressive drugs).
          50.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
  subject will be or is the recipient of a non-syngeneic transplant and is at risk for or has
  developed a host versus graft response, wherein said cells are administered to treat the
  host versus graft response.
          51.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
 subject is at risk for or is suffering from a neoplasm and said cells are administered
 adjunctive to a treatment thereof.
          52.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
 subject is at risk for or is suffering from a neoplasm of blood or bone marrow cells and
 said cells are administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof.
          53.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
 subject is at risk for or is suffering from a benign neoplasm of bone marrow cells, a
 myeloproliferative disorder, a myclodysplastic syndrome, or an acute leukemia and said
 cells are administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof.
         54.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
 subject is at risk for or is suffering from a benign neoplasm of bone marrow cells and
said cells are administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof
         55.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
subject is at risk for or is suffering from a myeloproliferative disorder and said cells are
administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof
         56.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
subject is at risk for or is suffering from one or more of chronic myelocytic leukemia
("CML") (also called chronic granulocytic leukemia ("CGL")), agnogenic
                                                                               myelofibrosis,
essential thrombocythemia, polycythemia vera, or other myeloproliferative disorder and
said cells are administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof.
                                               20

           57.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
   subject is at risk for or is suffering from a myelodysplastic syndrome and said cells are
   administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof
           58.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
   subject is at risk for or is suffering from an acute leukemia and said cells are
   administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof
           59.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
  subject is at risk for or is suffering from one or more of acute multiple myeloma,
  myeloblastic leukemia, chronic myelocytic leukemia ("CML"), acute promyelocytic
  leukemia, pre-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia ("CLL'),
  B-cell lymphoma, hairy cell leukemia, myeloma, T-acute lymphoblastic leukemia,
  peripheral T-cell lymphoma, other lymphoid leukemias, other lymphomas, or other
  acute leukemia and said cells are administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof.
          60.       A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
 subject is at risk for or is suffering from an anemia or other blood disorder and said cells
 are administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof
          61.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
 subject is at risk for or is suffering from hemoglobinopathies, thalassenia, bone marrow
 failure syndrome, sickle cell anemia, aplastic anemia, Fanconi's anemia, or an immune
hemolytic anemia and said cells are administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof.
         62.       A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
subject is at risk for or is suffering from one or more of refractory anemia, refractory
anemia with ringed sideroblasts, refractory anemia with excess blasts, refractory anemia
with excess blasts in transformation, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, or other
myelodysplastic syndrome and said cells are administered adjunctive to a treatment
thereof
         63.       A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
subject is at risk for or is suffering from Fanconi's anemia and said cells are
administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof
         64.       A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
subject is at risk for or is suffering from an immune dysfunction and said cells are
administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof
                                                21

           65.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
   subject is at risk for or is suffering from a congenital immune deficiency and said cells
   are administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof.
           66.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
  subject is at risk for or is suffering from an autoimmune dysfunction, disorder, or
  disease and said cells are administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof.
           67.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
  subject is at risk for or is suffering from one or more of the following autoimmune
  dysfunctions: Crohn's disease, Guillain-Barre syndrome, lupus erythematosus (also
  called "SLE" and systemic lupus erythematosus), multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis,
  optic neuritis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, Graves' disease, Hashimoto's disease,
  Ord's thyroiditis, diabetes mellitus (type 1), Reiter's syndrome, autoimmune hepatitis,
 primary biliary cirrhosis, antiphospholipid antibody syndrome ("APS"), opsoclonus
 myoclonus syndrome ('OMS"), temporal arteritis, acute disseminated encephalomyelitis
 ("ADEM" and "ADE"), Goodpasture's, syndrome, Wegener's granulomatosis, celiac
 disease, pemphigus, polyarthritis, and warm autoimmune hemolytic anemia and said
 cells are administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof.
          68.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
 subject is at risk for or is suffering from one or more of the following autoimmune
 dysfunctions: Crohn's disease, lupus erythematosus (also called "SLE" and systemic
 lupus erythematosus), multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, psoriasis, rheumatoid
 arthritis, Graves' disease, Hashimoto's disease, diabetes mellitus (type 1), Reiter's
syndrome, primary biliary cirrhosis, celiac disease, polyarthritis, and warm autoimmune
hemolytic anemia and said cells are administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof
          69.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
subject is at risk for or is suffering from one or more of the following diseases thought
to have an autoimmune component: endometriosis, interstitial cystitis, neuromyotonia,
scleroderma, progressive systemic scleroderma, vitiligo, vulvodynia, Chagas' disease,
sarcoidosis, chronic fatigue syndrome, and dysautonomia and said cells are administered
adjunctive to a treatment thereof.
                                                22

            70.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein the
   subject is at risk for or is suffering from an inflammatory disease and said cells are
   administered adjunctive to a treatment thereof.
            71.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
   said cells are administered in a formulation comprising one or more other
  pharmaceutically active agents.
           72.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells are administered in a formulation comprising one or more other
  immnosuppressive agents.
           73.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells are administered in a formulation comprising one or more of a corticosteroid,
  cyclosporin A, a cyclosporin-like immunosuppressive agent, cyclophosphamide,
  antithymocyte globulin, azathioprine, rapamycin, FK-506, and a macrolide-like
 immunosuppressive agent other than FK-506, rapamycin, and an immunosuppressive
 monoclonal antibody agent.
           74.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are administered in a formulation comprising one or more of a corticosteroid,
 cyclosporin A, azathioprine, cyclophosphamide, rapamycin, FK-506, and an
 immunosuppressive monoclonal antibody agent.
          75.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are administered in a formulation comprising one or more antibiotic agents.
          76.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are administered in a formulation comprising one or more antifungal agents.
          77.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are administered in a formulation comprising one or more antiviral agents.
          78.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are administered to the subject by a parenteral route.
          79.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
said cells are administered to the subject by any one or more of the following parenteral
routes: intravenous, intraarterial, intracardiac, intraspinal, intrathecal, intraosseous,
intraarticular, intrasynovial, intracutaneous, intradermal, subcutaneous, and
intramuscular injection.
                                                23

            80.    A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
   said cells are administered by any one or more of the following parenteral routes:
  intravenous, intraarterial, intracutaneous, intradermal, subcutaneous, and intramuscular
  injection.
           81.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells are administered by any one or more of the following parenteral routes:
  intravenous, intraarterial, intracutaneous, subcutaneous, and intramuscular injection.
           82.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
  said cells are administered to the subject through a hypodermic needle by a syringe.
           83.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are administered to the subject through a catheter.
           84.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are administered by surgical implantation.
           85.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are administered to the subject by implantation using an arthroscopic
 procedure.
          86.      A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are administered to the subject in or on a support.
          87.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are administered to the subject in an encapsulated form.
          88.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
 said cells are formulated suitably for administration by any one or more of the following
routes: oral, rectal, epicutaneous, ocular, nasal, and pulmonary.
          89.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
said cells are administered to the subject in one dose.
          90.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
said cells are administered to the subject in a series of two or more doses in succession.
          91.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
said cells are administered in a single dose, in two doses, or in more than two doses,
wherein the doses are the same or different, and they are administered with equal or with
unequal intervals between them.
                                              24

            92.     A method according to any of the foregoing or the following, wherein
   said cells are administered over a period of less than one day to one week, one week to
   one month, one month to one year, one year to two years, or longer than two years.
            93.     A method of treatment of an immune dysfunction in a subject,
   comprising administering to a subject suffering from an immune dysfunction, by a route
   and in an amount effective for treating the immune dysfunction in the subject, cells that:
    are not embryonic stem cells, embryonic germ cells, or germ cells; can differentiate into
  at least one cell type of each of at least two of the endodermal, ectodermal, and
  mesodermal embryonic lineages; do not provoke a deleterious immune response in the
  subject; and are effective to treat the immune dysfunction in the subject.
           94.     A method of adjunctive treatment of an immune dysfunction in a subject,
  comprising administering to a subject suffering from an immune dysfunction, by a route
  and in an amount effective for treating the immune dysfunction in the subject, cells that:
   are not embryonic stem cells, embryonic germ cells, or germ cells; can differentiate into
  at least one cell type of each of at least two of the endodermal, ectodermal, and
  mesodermal embryonic lineages; do not provoke a deleterious immune response in the
  subject; and are effective to treat the immune dysfunction in the subject, wherein the
 cells are administered to the subject adjunctively to one or more other treatments that
 are being administered to the subject to treat the same immune dysfunction, to treat one
 or more other dysfunctions, or both.
          Other aspects of the invention are described in or are obvious from the following
 disclosure, and are within the ambit of the invention.
                               Brief Descriptions of the Figures
          Figure 1 is a schematic representation of the transcriptional profiling studies that
were performed to generate (identify) gene and surface receptor-based markers that
distinguish between MAPCs of the invention and other stem and progenitor cells that
are more lineage committed. The experiments have resulted in a panel of 75 markers
having 10-fold different expression between MSC cultures and the MAPCs.
         Figure 2 is a set of graphs showing the tri-lineage differentiation of GFP-labeled
rat MAPCs. The results show that MAPCs can differentiate into cells of all three
                                               25

   embryonic lineages. As further described below, for endothelial differentiation, MAPCs
   were cultured on fibronectin-coated plates in the presence of vascular endothelial
   growth factor B (VEGF-B). For hepatocyte differentiation, cells were grown on
   matrigel-coated plates and treated with fibroblast growth factor-4 (FGF-4) and
   hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). Neuronal differentiation was induced by sequential
  treatment with basic-FGF (bFGF), with both FGF-8 and Sonic Hedgehog (SHH), and
  with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). After two weeks, mRNA was extracted
  from cells and applied to qPCR analysis using primers specific for detection of various
  lineage markers. In all assays, cells cultured in the absence of lineage-inducing
  cytokines served as controls. The expression levels of lineage markers were first
  normalized to the expression level of an internal control gene (GAPDH) which is
  unaffected during differentiation. Differentiation success was then assessed by
  calculation of the relative expression in the differentiated or the control cells compared
 to the levels in the parental rat line, using an increase of more than 5-fold in the relative
 expression as a cut-off for successful differentiation. Differentiated rat MAPCs
 displayed significant expression of the endothelial markers, von Willebrand factor,
                                                                                          and
 PECAM-1 (top panel); the hepatic markers albumin, cytokeratin-i8, and HNF-l a
 (middle panel); and the neuronal/astrocyte markers GFAP, nestin, and NF-200 (bottom
 panel).
         Figure 3 is a pair of bar charts showing the low immunogenicity (top panel) and
 immunosuppressivity (bottom panel) of MAPCs in mixed lymphocyte reactions (MLR),
 as described further below. In the top panel: B + B = donor B + donor B; B + A
                                                                                        =
 donor B + donor A; B + K = donor B + donor K; B + R = donor B + donor R;
                                                                                    B+T
 donor B + donor T; donor B + PHA; B + BMPC = donor B + MAPC. The same
                                                                                       result
was achieved with twelve different donors. In the bottom panel: donor W + donor
                                                                                          W;
donor W + donor A; donor W + donor T; donor W + MSC; donor W + MAPC (17);
donor W + PHA; donor W + donor A + MSC; donor W + donor A + MAPC (17); donor
W + donor T + MSC; donor W + donor T + MAPC (17); donor W + donor P
                                                                                   + MSC;
donor W + donor P + MAPC (17). PHA is phytohemagglutinin (positive control
                                                                                       for T
cell activation).
        Figure 4 is a chart showing that MAPCs can suppress the proliferation of ConA
stimulated T-cells as described in Example 6. The caption "LN Only" designates
                                                                                        the
                                               26

  results for control reactions omitting MAPCs. The numbers for MAPCs indicate how
  many cells were used in the assays.
           Figure 5A is a chart showing the immunosuppressive effects of Lewis MAPCs in
  mixed lymphocyte reactions, as described in Example 7. The box in Figure SA
  enumerates the number of MAPCs in each reaction. In the box, R designates responder
  cells and S designates stimulator cells (irradiated splenocytes from DA rats).
           Figure 5B is a chart showing the immunosuppressive effects of Sprague-Dawley
  MAPCs in mixed lymphocyte reactions, as described in Example 7. Captions and
  abbreviations are the same as in Figure 5A.
          Figure 6 is a graph showing that infusion of MAPCs does not adversely affect
 the health of recipients as determined by their respiratory rate. The graph is further
 described in Example 8.
          Figure 7 is a bar chart that depicts the results of an experiment demonstrating the
 ability of MAPCs to suppress an on-going immune response. The chart shows that
 MAPCs are strongly immunosuppressive in MLRs, both when they are added at the
 same time as the T-cell activator (stimulator)(Day 0, left side of chart), and when they
 are added 3 days after addition of the T-cell activator (stimulator) (Day 3, right side of
 chart). Details of the experiments are further described in Example 10.
          Figure 8 is a bar graph showing that MAPC inhibition of T cell proliferation in
 MLRs is reversible. Results are exposed as mean cpm +/-SD of triplicate culture. The
graph is further described in Example 11.
         Figure 9 is a chart showing that MAPCs inhibit GVHD as described in Example
 13.
                                          Definitions
         As used herein, certain terms have the meanings set out below.
         "A" or "an" means one or more; at least one.
         "Adjunctive" means jointly, together with, in addition to, in conjunction with,
and the like.
         "Co-administer" can include simultaneous or sequential administration of two or
more agents.
                                               27

            "Cytokines" refer to cellular factors that induce or enhance cellular movement,
    such as homing of MAPCs or other stem cells, progenitor cells, or differentiated cells.
    Cytokines may also stimulate such cells to divide.
            "Deleterious" means, as used herein, harmful. By way of illustration,
    "deleterious immune response" means, as used herein, a harmfiul immune response, such
    as those that are lacking or are too weak, those that are too strong, and/or those that are
   misdirected. Among deleterious immune responses are the harmful immune responses
   that occur in immune diseases. Examples include the lack of immune responses in
   immunodeficiency diseases, and the exaggerated and/or misdirected immune responses
   in autoimmune diseases. Also among deleterious immune responses are immune
   responses that interfere with medical treatment, including otherwise normal immune
  responses. Examples include immune responses involved in rejecting transplants and
  grafts, and the response of immunocompetent cells in transplants and grafts that cause
  graft versus host disease.
           "Differentiation factors" refer to cellular factors, such as growth factors, that
  induce lineage commitment.
           "Dysfiuction" means, as used herein, a disorder, disease, or deleterious effect of
  an otherwise normal process. By way of illustration, an immune dysfunction includes
 immune diseases, such as autoimmune diseases and immune deficiencies. It also
 includes immune responses that interfere with medical treatment, including otherwise
 normal immune responses that interfere with medical treatment Examples of such
 dysfunctions include immune responses involved in rejecting transplants and grafts, and
 the response of immunocompetent cells in transplants and grafts that cause graft
                                                                                        versus
 host disease.
          "EC cells" refers to embryonic carcinoma cells.
          "Effective amount" generally means an amount which provides the desired local
or systemic effect. For example, an effective amount is an amount sufficient to
effectuate a beneficial or desired clinical result. The effective amounts can be provided
all at once in a single administration or in fractional amounts that provide
                                                                                the effective
amount in several administrations. For instance, an effective amount of MAPCs
                                                                                        could
be administered in one or more administrations and could include any preselected
amount of cells. The precise determination of what would be considered
                                                                               an effective
                                               28

   amount may be based on factors individual to each subject, including their size, age,
   injury, and/or disease or injury being treated, and amount of time since the injury
   occurred or the disease began. One skilled in the art will be able to determine the
   effective amount for a given subject based on these considerations which are routine in
   the art. Thus, for instance, the skilled artisan in this art, such as a physician, based on
   the known properties of MAPCs as disclosed herein and in the art, together with a
   consideration of the foregoing factors, will be able to determine the effective amount of
   MAPCs for a given subject. As used herein, "effective dose" means the same as
   "effective amount."
            "EG cells" refers to embryonal germ cells.
            "Engraft" refers to the process of cellular contact and incorporation into an
  existing tissue of interest in vivo.
           "Enriched population" means a relative increase in numbers of MAPCs relative
  to other cells or constituents in an initial population, such as an increase in numbers of
  MAPCs relative to one or more non-MAPC cell types in culture, such as primary
  culture, or in vivo.
           "ES cells" refers to embryonal stem cells.
           "Expansion" refers to the propagation of a cell or cells without differentiation.
           "Fanconi's anemia" as used herein means the same as Fanconi anemia, an
 inherited disease.
           "GVHD" refers to graft versus host disease, which means processes that occur
 primarily in an immunocompromised host when it is recognized as non-self by
 immunocompetent cells of a graft
           "HVG" refers to host versus graft response, which means processes which occur
 when a host rejects a graft. Typically, HVG is triggered when a graft is recognized as
 foreign (non-self) by immunocompetent cells of the host.
          "Isolated" refers to a cell or cells which are not associated with one or more cells
or one or more cellular components that are associated with the cell or cells in vivo.
          "MAPC" is an acronym for "multipotent adult progenitor cell." It refers to a
non-ES, non-EG, non-germ cell that can give rise to cell lineages of more than one germ
layer, such as all three germ layers (i.e., endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm). MAPCs
also have telomerase activity. They may be positive for oct-3/4 (e.g., human oct-3A).
                                                29

  They also may express rex-I and rox-1. Further, they may express sox-2, SSEA-4,
  and/or nanog. The tenn "adult" in MAPC is not restrictive. It only denotes that these
  cells are not ES, EG, or germ cells. Typically, as used herein, MAPC is singular and
  MAPCs is plural. MAPCs also have been referred to as multipotent adult stem cells
  (MASCs). See U.S. Patent No. 7,015,037, which is herein incorporated by reference for
  disclosure of MAPC/MASC and methods of isolation and growth thereof.
           "MASC," see MAPC.
           "MNC" refers to mononuclear cells.
           "Modality" means a type, approach, avenue, or method, such as, a therapeutic
  modality; i.e., a type of therapy.
          "MSC" is an acronym for mesenchymal stem cells.
          "Multipotent" with respect to MAPCs, refers to the ability to give rise to cell
 lineages of more than one germ layer, such as all three primitive germ layers (i.e.,
 endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm) upon differentiation.
          "Persistence" refers to the ability of cells to resist rejection and remain and/or
 increase in number over time (e.g., days, weeks, months, or years) in vivo.
          "Progenitor" as used in multipotent adult progenitor cells (MAPCs) indicates
 that these cells can give rise to other cells such as further differentiated cells. The term
 is not limitative and does not limit these cells to a particular lineage.
          "Self-renewal" refers to the ability to produce replicate daughter stem cells
having differentiation potential that is identical to those from which they arose. A
similar term used in this context is "proliferation."
          A "subject" is a vertebrate, such as a mammal, such as a human. Mammals
include, but are not limited to, humans, farm animals, sport animals, and pets. Subjects
in need of treatment by methods of the present invention include those suffering from a
disorder, dysfunction, or disease (such as an immune deficiency or dysfunction, such as
HVG and GVHD), or a side effect of the same, or a treatment thereof, that can benefit
from administration of MAPCs either as a primary or an adjunctive treatment.
         "Transplant" as used herein means to introduce into a subject, cells, tissues, or
organs. The transplant can be derived from the subject, from culture, or from a non
subject source.
                                               30

             "Treat," "treating," or "treatment" includes treating, preventing, ameliorating,
    inhibiting, or curing a deficiency, dysfunction, disease, or other process resulting in a
    deleterious effect, such as an immune system deficiency, dysfunction, disease, or other
   process that deleteriously affects immune system functions or properties or that
   interferes with a therapy.
                               Detailed Description of the Invention
   Introduction
             MAPCs are very promising for treating disease by cell transplantation
  techniques, such as for tissue and organ regeneration, both when used alone and when
  used in combination with other treatments. Among the potential obstacles to realizing
  the promise of MAPCs for treating diseases, and for tissue and organ regeneration, are
  the adverse immune reactions that typically complicate or prevent success in
  transplantation therapies, such as blood and bone marrow transplantation therapies and
  solid organ transplantation. Prominent among these immune complications are graft
  rejection by a host's immune system (referred to herein as host versus graft response and
  as "HVG") and systemic damage to an immunocompromised host that results when
  immunocompetent cells in a graft are activated by contact with non-self components of
 the host (referred to herein as graft versus host disease and as "GVHD").
            It has been found (as described in greater detail elsewhere herein) that MAPCs
 do not provoke an immune response in allogeneic hosts. Thus, transplantation of
 MAPCs to an allogeneic host should not engender allogeneic graft rejection (i.e., HVG).
           Furthermore, it has also been found that allogeneic MAPCs can be administered
 to a host at high concentration without deleterious effects on respiration, suggesting that
undue clumping and/or deposition in the lungs does not occur.
           In addition, it has been found (as described in greater detail elsewhere herein)
that MAPCs can modulate immune responses. In particular in this regard, it has been
found that MAPCs can suppress immune responses, including but not limited to
immune responses involved in, for example, HVG and GVHD, to name just two. In an
even more detailed particular in this regard, it has been found that MAPCs can suppress
proliferation of T-cells, even in the presence of potent T-cell stimulators, such as
Concanavalin A and allogeneic stimulator cells.
                                                31

            Moreover, it has been found that even relatively small amounts of MAPCs can
    suppress these responses. Indeed, only 3%MAPCs in mixed lymphocyte reactions is
    sufficient to reduce T-cell response to potent stimulators by 50% in vitro.
            Accordingly, in certain aspects of the invention in this regard, certain of the
    embodiments provide compositions and methods and the like for treating, ameliorating,
   and/or curing or eliminating, adverse immune reactions, such as those that occur in
   transplantation therapies.
            The low immunogenicity of allogeneic MAPCs, their ability to suppress adverse
   immune responses, and their high specific activity makes them particularly valuable for
   adjunctive therapies in the treatment of diseases with an adverse immune component.
  Among such diseases are autoimmune diseases in which, typically, dysfunction of the
  subject's own immune system causes disease. MAPCs also are useful as
    immunosuppressive adjunctive therapeutics for treating adverse immune responses that
  occur in transplantation therapy. Examples include HVG in immunocompetent hosts
  and GVHD in immunocompromised hosts. MAPCs further can be useful in adjunctive
  immunosuppressive therapy in the treatment of a variety of neoplasms, anemias and
 blood disorders, and in the treatment of certain inflammatory diseases. Diseases in this
 regard are discussed in greater detail below.
           Using the methods described herein for MAPC isolation, characterization, and
 expansion, together with the disclosure herein on immune-suppressing properties of
 MAPCs, MAPCs can be used to prevent, suppress, or diminish immune disorders,
 dysfunctions, or diseases, including, for example, adverse immune reactions, such as
 those that result from other therapies, including those that complicate transplantation
therapies, such as HVG and GVHD. Such disorders, dysfunctions, and diseases also
include congenital immune disorders and autoimmune diseases, among others.
           MAPCs are useful in these regards and others both as primary and adjunctive
therapeutic agents and modalities. MAPCs can be used therapeutically alone or together
with other agents. MAPCs can be administered before, during, and/or after such agents.
 Likewise, whether used alone or with other agents, MAPCs can be administered before,
during, and/or after a transplant. If administered during transplant, MAPCs can be
administered together with the transplant material or separately. If separately
administered, the MAPCs can be administered sequentially or simultaneously with the
                                              32

   transplant. Furthermore, MAPCs may be administered in advance of the transplant
   and/or after the transplant.
           Other agents that can be used in conjunction with MAPCs, in transplantation
  therapies in particular, include immunomodulatory agents. A variety of such agents are
  described elsewhere herein. In certain embodiments of the invention, the
  imunomodulatory agents are immunosuppressive agents, such as those described
  elsewhere herein. Among such agents are corticosteroids, cyclosporin A, cyclosporin
  like immunosuppressive compounds, azathioprine, cyclophosphamide, and
  methotrexate.
           MAPCs can be administered to hosts by a variety of methods as discussed
 elsewhere herein. In certain embodiments the MAPCs are administered by injection,
 such as by intravenous injection. In some embodiments MAPCs are encapsulated for
 administration. In some embodiments the MAPCs are administered in situ. Examples
 include in situ administration of MAPCs in solid organ transplantation and in organ
 repair. These and other forms of administration are discussed below.
          In some embodiments of the invention, MAPCs are administered in doses
 measured by the ratio of MAPCs (cells) to body mass (weight). Alternatively, MAPCs
 can be administered in doses of a fixed number of cells. Dosing, routes of
 administration, formulations, and the like are discussed in greater detail elsewhere
 herein.
Mechanisms of Action
          Without being limited to any one or more explanatory mechanisms for the
immunomodulatory and other properties, activities, and effects of MAPCs, it is worth
noting that they can modulate immune responses through a variety of modalities. For
instance, MAPCs can have direct effects on a graft or host. Such direct effects are
primarily a matter of direct contact between MAPCs and cells of the host or graft. The
contact may be with structural members of the cells or with constituents in their
immediate environment. Such direct mechanisms may involve direct contact,
                                                                                 diffusion,
uptake, or other processes well known to those skilled in the art. The direct activities
and effects of the MAPCs maybe limited spatially, such as to an area of local deposition
or to a bodily compartment accessed by injection.
                                             33

             MAPCs also can "home" in response to "homing" signals, such as those released
    at sites of injury or disease. Since homing often is mediated by signals whose natural
    function is to recruit cells to the sites where repairs are needed, the homing behavior can
   be a powerful tool for concentrating MAPCs to therapeutic targets. This effect can be
    stimulated by specific factors, as discussed below.
             MAPCs may also modulate immune processes by their response to factors. This
   may occur additionally or alternatively to direct modulation. Such factors may include
   homing factors, mitogens, and other stimulatory factors. They may also include
   differentiation factors, and factors that trigger particular cellular processes. Among the
   latter are factors that cause the secretion by cells of other specific factors, such as those
  that are involved in recruiting cells, such as stem cells (including MAPCs), to a site of
  injury or disease.
            MAPCs may, in addition to the foregoing or alternatively thereto, secrete factors
  that act on endogenous cells, such as stem cells or progenitor cells. The factors may act
  on other cells to engender, enhance, decrease, or suppress their activities. MAPCs may
  secrete factors that act on stem, progenitor, or differentiated cells causing those cells to
  divide and/or differentiate. MAPCs that home to a site where repair is needed may
  secrete trophic factors that attract other cells to the site. In this way, MAPCs may attract
 stem, progenitor, or differentiated cells to a site where they are needed. MAPCs also
 may secrete factors that cause such cells to divide or differentiate.
            Secretion of such factors, including irophic factors, can contribute to the efficacy
 of MAPCs in, for instance, limiting inflammatory damage, limiting vascular
 permeability, improving cell survival, and engendering and/or augmenting homing of
 repair cells to sites of damage. Such factors also may affect T-cell proliferation directly.
  Such factors also may affect dendritic cells, by decreasing their phagocytic and antigen
presenting activities, which also may affect T-cell activity
           By these and other mechanisms, MAPCs can provide beneficial
immunomodulatory effects, including, but not limited to, suppression of undesirable
and/or deleterious immune reactions, responses, functions, diseases, and the like.
MAPCs in various embodiments of the invention provide beneficial immunomodulatory
properties and effects that are useful by themselves or in adjunctive therapy for
precluding, preventing, lessening, decreasing, ameliorating, mitigating, treating,
                                                 34

   eliminating and/or curing deleterious immune processes and/or conditions. Such
   processes and conditions include, for instance, autoimmune diseases, anemias,
   neoplasms, HVG, GVHD, and certain inflammatory disorders, as described in greeter
   detail elsewhere herein. MAPCs are useful in these other regards particularly in
   mammals. In various embodiments of the invention in this regard, MAPCs are used
   therapeutically in human patients, often adjunctively to other therapies.
           MAPC Administration
           MAPC Preparations
           MAPCs can be prepared from a variety of tissues, such as bone marrow cells, as
  discussed in greater detail elsewhere herein.
           In many embodiments the MAPC preparations are clonally derived. In principle,
  the MAPCs in these preparations are genetically identical to one another and, if properly
 prepared and maintained, are free of other cells.
           In some embodiments MAPC preparations that are less pure than these may be
 used. While rare, less pure populations may arise when the initial cloning step requires
 more than one cell. If these are not all MAPCs, expansion will produce a mixed
 population in which MAPCs are only one of at least two types of cells. More often
 mixed populations arise when MAPCs are administered in admixture with one or more
 other types of cells.
          In many embodiments the purity of MAPCs for administration to a subject is
 about 100%. In other embodiments it is 95% to 100%. In some embodiments it is 85%
 to 95%. Particularly in the case of admixtures with other cells, the percentage of
 MAPCs can be 25%-30%, 30%-35%, 35%-40%, 40%-45%, 45%-50%, 60%-70%, 70%
 80%, 80%-90%, or 90%-95%.
          The number of MAPCs in a given volume can be determined by well known and
routine procedures and instrumentation. The percentage of MAPCs in a given volume
of a mixture of cells can be determined by much the same procedures. Cells can be
readily counted manually or by using an automatic cell counter. Specific cells can be
determined in a given volume using specific staining and visual examination and by
automated methods using specific binding reagent, typically antibodies, fluorescent
                                                                                      tags,
and a fluorescence activated cell sorter.
                                              35

            MAPC immunomodulation may involve undifferentiated MAPCs. It may
   involve MAPCS that are committed to a differentiation pathway. Such
   immunomodulation also may involve MAPCs that have differentiated into a less potent
   stem cell with limited differentiation potential. It also may involve MAPCs that have
   differentiated into a terminally differentiated cell type. The best type or mixture of
   MAPCs will be determined by the particular circumstances of their use, and it will be a
  matter of routine design for those skilled in the art to determine an effective type or
   combination of MAPCs.
           Formulations
           The choice of formulation for administering MAPCs for a given application will
  depend on a variety of factors. Prominent among these will be the species of subject,
  the nature of the disorder, dysfunction, or disease being treated and its state and
  distribution in the subject, the nature of other therapies and agents that are being
  administered, the optimum route for administration of the MAPCs, survivability of
 MAPCs via the mute, the dosing regimen, and other factors that will be apparent to
 those skilled in the art. In particular, for instance, the choice of suitable carriers and
 other additives will depend on the exact route of administration and the nature of the
 particular dosage form, for example, liquid dosage form (e.g., whether the composition
 is to be formulated into a solution, a suspension, gel or another liquid form, such as a
 time release form or liquid-filled form).
          For example, cell survival can be an important determinant of the efficacy of
 cell-based therapies. This is true for both primary and adjunctive therapies. Another
 concern arises when target sites are inhospitable to cell seeding and cell growth. This
may impede access to the site and/or engrafanent there of therapeutic MAPCs. Various
embodiments of the invention comprise measures to increase cell survival and/or to
overcome problems posed by barriers to seeding and/or growth.
          Examples of compositions comprising MAPCs include liquid preparations,
including suspensions and preparations for intramuscular or intravenous administration
(e.g., injectable administration), such as sterile suspensions or emulsions. Such
compositions may comprise an admixture of MAPCs with a suitable carrier, diluent,
                                                                                            or
excipient such as sterile water, physiological saline, glucose, dextrose, or the like. The
compositions can also be lyophilized. The compositions can contain auxiliary
                                               36

   substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents, pH buffering agents, gelling or
   viscosity enhancing additives, preservatives, flavoring agents, colors, and the like,
   depending upon the route of administration and the preparation desired. Standard texts,
   such as "REMINGTON'S PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCE," 17th edition, 1985,
   incorporated herein by reference, may be consulted to prepare suitable preparations,
   without undue experimentation.
           Compositions of the invention often are conveniently provided as liquid
   preparations, e.g., isotonic aqueous solutions, suspensions, emulsions, or viscous
   compositions, which may be buffered to a selected pH. Liquid preparations are
  normally easier to prepare than gels, other viscous compositions, and solid
  compositions. Additionally, liquid compositions are somewhat more convenient to
  administer, especially by injection. Viscous compositions, on the other hand, can be
  formulated within the appropriate viscosity range to provide longer contact periods with
  specific tissues.
          Various additives often will be included to enhance the stability, sterility, and
 isotonicity of the compositions, such as antimicrobial preservatives, antioxidants,
 chelating agents, and buffers, among others. Prevention of the action of microorganisms
 can be ensured by various antibacterial and antifungal agents, for example, parabens,
 chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, and the like. In many cases, it will be desirable to
 include isotonic agents, for example, sugars, sodium chloride, and the like. Prolonged
 absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form can be brought about by the use of
 agents that delay absorption, for example, aluminum monostearate, and gelatin.
According to the present invention, however, any vehicle, diluent, or additive used
would have to be compatible with the cells.
         MAPC solutions, suspensions, and gels normally contain a major amount of
water (preferably purified, sterilized water) in addition to the cells. Minor amounts of
other ingredients such as pH adjusters (e.g., a base such as NaOH), emulsifiers or
dispersing agents, buffering agents, preservatives, wetting agents and jelling agents
(e.g., methylcellulose) may also be present.
         Typically, the compositions will be isotonic, i.e., they will have the same
osmotic pressure as blood and lacrimal fluid when properly prepared for administration.
                                              37

            The desired isotonicity of the compositions of this invention maybe
    accomplished using sodium chloride, or other pharmaceutically acceptable agents such
    as dextrose, boric acid, sodium tartrate, propylene glycol, or other inorganic or organic
    solutes. Sodium chloride is preferred particularly for buffers containing sodium ions.
            Viscosity of the compositions, if desired, can be maintained at the selected level
   using a pharmaceutically acceptable thickening agent. Methylcellulose is preferred
   because it is readily and economically available and is easy to work with. Other suitable
   thickening agents include, for example, xanthan gum, carboxymethyl cellulose,
   hydroxypropyl cellulose, carbomer, and the like. The preferred concentration of the
  thickener will depend upon the agent selected. The important point is to use an amount,
  which will achieve the selected viscosity. Viscous compositions are normally prepared
  from solutions by the addition of such thickening agents.
           A pharmaceutically acceptable preservative or cell stabilizer can be employed to
  increase the life of MAPC compositions. If such preservatives are included, it is well
 within the purview of the skilled artisan to select compositions that will not affect the
 viability or efficacy of the MAPCs.
           Those skilled in the art will recognize that the components of the compositions
 should be chemically inert. This will present no problem to those skilled in chemical
 and pharmaceutical principles. Problems can be readily avoided by reference to
 standard texts or by simple experiments (not involving undue experimentation) using
 information provided by the disclosure, the documents cited herein, and generally
 available in the art.
           Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the cells utilized in
 practicing the present invention in the required amount of the appropriate solvent
                                                                                         with
various amounts of the other ingredients, as desired.
          In some embodiments, MAPCs are formulated in a unit dosage injectable form,
such as a solution, suspension, or emulsion. Pharmaceutical formulations suitable
                                                                                         for
injection of MAPCs typically are sterile aqueous solutions and dispersions. Carriers for
injectable formulations can be a solvent or dispersing medium containing, for example,
water, saline, phosphate buffered saline, polyol (for example, glycerol, propylene
                                                                                        glycol,
liquid polyethylene glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof.
                                                38

           The skilled artisan can readily determine the amount of cells and optional
   additives, vehicles, and/or carrier in compositions to be administered in methods of the
   invention. Typically, any additives (in addition to the cells) are present in an amount of
   0.001 to 50 wt %in solution, such as in phosphate buffered saline. The active
   ingredient is present in the order of micrograms to milligrams, such as about 0.0001 to
   about 5 wt %,preferably about 0.0001 to about I wt %,most preferably about 0.0001 to
   about 0.05 wt %or about 0.001 to about 20 wt %,preferably about 0.01 to about 10 wt
   %, and most preferably about 0.05 to about 5 wt %.
           For any composition to be administered to an animal or human, and for any
  particular method of administration, it is preferred to determine therefore: toxicity, such
  as by determining the lethal dose (LD) and LD50 in a suitable animal model, e.g., rodent
  such as mouse or rat; and, the dosage of the composition(s), concentration of
  components therein, and timing of administering the composition(s), which elicit a
  suitable response. Such determinations do not require undue experimentation from the
  knowledge of the skilled artisan, this disclosure, and the documents cited herein. And,
  the time for sequential administrations can be ascertained without undue
  experimentation.
          In some embodiments MAPCs are encapsulated for administration, particularly
  where encapsulation enhances the effectiveness of the therapy, or provides advantages
 in handling and/or shelf life. Encapsulation in some embodiments where it increases the
 efficacy of MAPC mediated immunosuppression may, as a result, also reduce the need
 for immunosuppressive drug therapy.
          Also, encapsulation in some embodiments provides a barrier to a subject's
 immune system that may further reduce a subject's immune response to the MAPCs
 (which generally are not immunogenic or are only weakly immunogenic in allogeneic
 transplants), thereby reducing any graft rejection or inflammation that might occur upon
 administration of the cells.
         In a variety of embodiments where MAPCs are administered in admixture with
 cells of another type, which are more typically immunogenic in an allogencic or
xenogeneic setting, encapsulation may reduce or eliminate adverse host immune
responses to the non-MAPC cells and/or GVHD that might occur in an
                                              39

   immunocompromised host if the admixed cells are immunocompetent and recognize the
   host as non-self.
           MAPCs may be encapsulated by membranes, as well as capsules, prior to
  implantation. It is contemplated that any of the many methods of cell encapsulation
  available may be employed. In some embodiments, cells are individually encapsulated.
    In some embodiments, many cells are encapsulated within the same membrane. In
  embodiments in which the cells are to be removed following implantation, a relatively
  large size structure encapsulating many cells, such as within a single membrane, may
  provide a convenient means for retrieval.
          A wide variety of materials may be used in various embodiments for
  microencapsulation of MAPCs. Such materials include, for example, polymer capsules,
  alginate-poly-L-lysine-alginate microcapsules, barium poly-L-lysine alginate capsules,
 barium alginate capsules, polyacrylonitrile/polyvinylchloride (PAN/PVC) hollow
                                                                                      fibers,
 and polyethersulfone (PES) hollow fibers.
          Techniques for microencapsulation of cells that may be used for administration
 of MAPCs are known to those of skill in the art and are described, for example, in
 Chang, P., et al., 1999; Matthew, H.W., et al, 1991; Yanagi, K., et al., 1989; Cai Z.H.,
 et al, 1988; Chang, T.M., 1992 and in U.S. Patent No. 5,639,275 (which,
                                                                              for example,
 describes a biocompatible capsule for long-term maintenance of cells that stably
 express biologically active molecules. Additional methods of encapsulation are in
 European Patent Publication No. 301,777 and U.S. Pat.Nos. 4,353,888; 4,744,933;
 4,749,620; 4,814,274; 5,084,350; 5,089,272; 5,578,442; 5,639,275; and 5,676,943. All
 of the foregoing are incorporated herein by reference in parts pertinent to encapsulation
 of MAPCs.
         Certain embodiments incorporate MAPCs into a polymer, such as a biopolymer
or synthetic polymer. Examples of biopolymers include, but are not limited to,
fibronectin, fibin, fibrinogen, thrombin, collagen, and proteoglycans. Other factors,
such as the cytokines discussed above, can also be incorporated into the polymer. In
other embodiments of the invention, MAPCs may be incorporated in the interstices of a
three-dimensional gel. A large polymer or gel, typically, will be surgically implanted.
A polymer or gel that can be formulated in small enough particles or fibers can be
administered by other common, more convenient, non-surgical routes.
                                            40

            Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be prepared in many forms
   that include tablets, hard or soft gelatin capsules, aqueous solutions, suspensions, and
   liposomes and other slow-release formulations, such as shaped polymeric gels. Oral
   liquid pharmaceutical compositions may be in the form of, for example, aqueous or oily
   suspensions, solutions, emulsions, syrups, or elixirs, or may be presented as a dry
  product for constitution with water or other suitable vehicle before use. Such liquid
  pharmaceutical compositions may contain conventional additives such as suspending
  agents, emulsifying agents, non-aqueous vehicles (which may include edible oils), or
  preservatives. An oral dosage form may be formulated such that cells are released into
  the intestine after passing through the stomach. Such formulations are described in U.S.
  Patent No. 6,306,434 and in the references contained therein.
           Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for rectal administration can be prepared
  as unit dose suppositories. Suitable carriers include saline solution and other materials
  commonly used in the art.
          For administration by inhalation, cells can be conveniently delivered from an
 insufflator, nebulizer or a pressurized pack or other convenient means of delivering an
 aerosol spray. Pressurized packs may comprise a suitable propellant such as
 dichlorodifluoromethane, trichlorofluoromethane, dichlorotetrafluoroethane, carbon
 dioxide, or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol, the dosage unit may
 be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount.
          Alternatively, for administration by inhalation or insufflation, a means may take
 the form of a dry powder composition, for example, a powder mix of a modulator and a
 suitable powder base such as lactose or starch. The powder composition may be
presented in unit dosage form in, for example, capsules or cartridges or, e.g., gelatin or
blister packs from which the powder may be administered with the aid of an inhalator or
insufflator. For intra-nasal administration, cells may be administered via a liquid
                                                                                      spray,
such as via a plastic bottle atomizer.
          OtherActive Ingredients
          MAPCs may be administered with other pharmaceutically active agents. In
some embodiments one or more of such agents are formulated together with MAPCs for
administration. In some embodiments the MAPCs and the one or more agents are in
separate formulations. In some embodiments the compositions comprising the MAPCs
                                                41

   and/or the one or more agents are formulated with regard to adjunctive use with one
   another.
           MAPCs may be administered in a formulation comprising a immunosuppressive
   agents, such as any combination of any number of a corticosteroid, cyclosporin A, a
  cyclosporin-like immunosuppressive agent, cyclophosphamide, antithymocyte globulin,
  azathioprine, rapamycin, FK-506, and a macrolide-like immunosuppressive agent other
  than FK-506 and rapamycin. In certain embodiments, such agents include a
  corticosteroid, cyclosporin A, azathioprine, cyclophosphamide, rapamycin, and/or FK
  506. Immunosuppressive agents in accordance with the foregoing may be the only such
  additional agents or may be combined with other agents, such as other agents noted
 herein. Other immunosuppressive agents include Tacrolimus, Mycophenolate mofetil,
 and Siolimus.
          Such agents also include antibiotic agents, antifungal agents, and antiviral
 agents, to name just a few other pharmacologically active substances and compositions
 that maybe used in accordance with embodiments of the invention.
          Typical antibiotics or anti-mycotic compounds include, but are not limited to,
 penicillin, streptomycin, amphotericin, ampicillin, gentamicin, kanamycin,
 mycophenolic acid, nalidixic acid, neomycin, nystatin, paromomycin, polymyxin,
 puromycin, rifampicin, spectinomycin, tetracycline, tylosin, zeocin, and cephalosporins,
 aminoglycosides, and echinocandins.
          Further additives of this type relate to the fact that MAPCs, like other stems
 cells, following administration to a subject may "home" to an environment favorable to
their growth and function. Such "homing" often concentrates the cells at sites where
they are needed, such as sites of immune disorder, dysfunction, or disease. A number of
substances are known to stimulate homing. They include growth factors and trophic
signaling agents, such as cytokines. They may be used to promote homing of MAPCs to
therapeutically targeted sites. They may be administered to a subject prior to treatment
with MAPCs, together with MAPCs, or after MAPCs are administered.
         Certain cytokines, for instance, alter or affect the migration of MAPCs or their
differentiated counterparts to sites in need of therapy, such as immunocompromised
sites. Cytokines that may be used in this regard include, but are not limited to, stromal
cell derived factor-I (SDF-1), stem cell factor (SCF), angiopoietin-1, placenta-derived
                                               42

    growth factor (PIGF), granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF),
                                                                               cytokines that
    stimulate expression of endothelial adhesion molecules such as
                                                                       ICAMs and VCAMs,
    and cytokines that engender or facilitate homing.
            They may be administered to a subject as a pre-treatment, along with
                                                                                      MAPCs, or
   after MAPCs have been administered, to promote homing to desired sites and
                                                                                        to achieve
   improved therapeutic effect, either by improved homing or by other mechanisms.
                                                                                            Such
   factors may be combined with MAPCs in a formulation suitable for them to be
   administered together. Alternatively, such factors may be formulated and
                                                                                   administered
   separately.
           Order of administration, formulations, doses, frequency of dosing, and routes of
  administration of factors (such as the cytokines discussed above) and MAPCs generally
  will vary with the disorder or disease being treated, its severity, the subject,
                                                                                    other
  therapies that are being administered, the stage of the disorder or disease,
                                                                                  and prognostic
  factors, among others. General regimens that have been established for other
                                                                                      treatments
  provide a framework for determining appropriate dosing in MAPC-mediated
                                                                                     direct or
  adjunctive therapy. These, together with the additional information provided
                                                                                     herein,
  will enable the skilled artisan to determine appropriate administration
                                                                             procedures in
  accordance with embodiments of the invention, without undue experimentation.
          Routes
          MAPCs can be administered to a subject by any of a variety of routes known
                                                                                             to
 those skilled in the art that may be used to administer cells to a subject.
          Among methods that may be used in this regard in embodiments of the invention
 are methods for administering MAPCs by a parenteral route. Parenteral routes
                                                                                       of
 administration useful in various embodiments of the invention include,
                                                                              among others,
 administration by intravenous, intraarterial, intracardiac, intraspinal,
                                                                          intrathecal,
intraosseous, intraarticular, intrasynovial, intracutaneous, intradermal,
                                                                             subcutaneous,
and/or intramuscular injection. In some embodiments intravenous,
                                                                         intraarterial,
intracutaneous, intradermal, subcutaneous and/or intramuscular injection
                                                                                are used. In
some embodiments intravenous, intraarterial, intracutaneous,
                                                                  subcutaneous, and/or
intramuscular injection are used.
         In various embodiments of the invention MAPCs are administered by
                                                                                    systemic
 njection. Systemic injection, such as intravenous injection, offers one
                                                                             of the simplest
                                              43

    and least invasive routes for administering MAPCs. In some cases, these routes may
   require high MAPC doses for optimal effectiveness and/or homing by the MAPCs to the
   target sites. In a variety of embodiments MAPCs may be administered by targeted
   and/or localized injections to ensure optimum effect at the target sites.
            MAPCs may be administered to the subject through a hypodermic needle by a
   syringe in some embodiments of the invention. In various embodiments, MAPCs are
   administered to the subject through a catheter. In a variety of embodiments, MAPCs are
   administered by surgical implantation. Further in this regard, in various embodiments
  of the invention, MAPCs are administered to the subject by implantation using
                                                                                      an
  arthroscopic procedure. In some embodiments MAPCs are administered to the
                                                                                      subject
  in or on a solid support, such as a polymer or gel. In various embodiments,
                                                                                  MAPCs are
  administered to the subject in an encapsulated form.
           In additional embodiments of the invention, MAPCs are suitably formulated for
  oral, rectal, epicutaneous, ocular, nasal, and/or pulmonary delivery and are administered
  accordingly.
          Dosing
          Compositions can be administered in dosages and by techniques well known
                                                                                           to
 those skilled in the medical and veterinary arts taking into consideration such factors
                                                                                            as
 the age, sex, weight, and condition of the particular patient, and the formulation
                                                                                      that will
 be administered (e.g., solid vs. liquid). Doses for humans or other mammals
                                                                                   can be
 determined without undue experimentation by the skilled artisan, from this disclosure,
 the documents cited herein, and the knowledge in the art.
          The dose of MAPCs appropriate to be used in accordance with various
 embodiments of the invention will depend on numerous factors. It may vary
 considerably for different circumstances. The parameters that will determine
                                                                                   optimal
 doses of MAPCs to be administered for primary and adjunctive therapy generally will
include some or all of the following: the disease being treated and its stage; the
                                                                                      species
of the subject, their health, gender, age, weight, and metabolic rate; the subject's
immunocompetence; other therapies being administered; and expected potential
complications from the subject's history or genotype. The parameters
                                                                            may also include:
 whether the MAPCs are syngeneic, autologous, allogeneic, or xenogeneic; their
                                                                                      potency
(specific activity); the site and/or distribution that must be targeted for the
                                                                                MAPCs to be
                                               44

    effective; and such characteristics of the site such as accessibility to MAPCs and/or
   engraftment of MAPCs. Additional parameters include co-administration with MAPCs
   of other factors (such as growth factors and cytokines). The optimal dose in a given
   situation also will take into consideration the way in which the cells are formulated, the
   way they are administered, and the degree to which the cells will be localized at the
   target sites following administration. Finally, the determination of optimal dosing
  necessarily will provide an effective dose that is neither below the threshold of maximal
  beneficial effect nor above the threshold where the deleterious effects associated
                                                                                          with
  the dose of MAPCs outweighs the advantages of the increased dose.
            The optimal dose of MAPCs for some embodiments will be in the range of doses
  used for autologous, mononuclear bone marrow transplantation. For fairly pure
  preparations of MAPCs, optimal doses in various embodiments will range from 4
                                                                                        10 to
  10 MAPC cells/kg of recipient mass per administration. In some embodiments the
  optimal dose per administration will be between 105 to 107 MAPC cells/kg. In many
 embodiments the optimal dose per administration will be 5 x 105 to 5 x 106 MAPC
 cells/kg. By way of reference, higher doses in the foregoing are analogous to the doses
 of nucleated cells used in autologous mononuclear bone marrow transplantation.
                                                                                          Some
 of the lower doses are analogous to the number of CD34 cells/kg used in autologous
 mononuclear bone marrow transplantation.
           It is to be appreciated that a single dose may be delivered all at once,
 fractionally, or continuously over a period of time. The entire dose also may
                                                                                    be
 delivered to a single location or spread fractionally over several locations.
           In various embodiments, MAPCs may be administered in an initial dose, and
thereafter maintained by further administration of MAPCs. MAPCs may be
administered by one method initially, and thereafter administered by the same
                                                                                     method or
one or more different methods. The subject's MAPC levels can be maintained
                                                                                      by the
ongoing administration of the cells. Various embodiments administer the MAPCs
                                                                                          either
initially or to maintain their level in the subject or both by intravenous injection.
                                                                                        In a
variety of embodiments, other forms of administration, are used, dependent upon
                                                                                        the
patient's condition and other factors, discussed elsewhere herein.
          It is noted that human subjects are treated generally longer than experimental
animals; but, treatment generally has a length proportional to the length of the
                                                                                     disease
                                                 45

   process and the effectiveness of the treatment. Those skilled in the art will take this into
   account in using the results of other procedures carried out in humans and/or in animals,
   such as rats, mice, non-human primates, and the like, to determine appropriate doses for
   humans. Such determinations, based on these considerations and taking into account
   guidance provided by the present disclosure and the prior art will enable the skilled
   artisan to do so without undue experimentation.
            Suitable regimens for initial administration and further doses or for sequential
   administrations may all be the same or may be variable. Appropriate regiments can be
  ascertained by the skilled artisan, from this disclosure, the documents cited herein, and
  the knowledge in the art.
           The dose, frequency, and duration of treatment will depend on many factors,
  including the nature of the disease, the subject, and other therapies that maybe
  administered. Accordingly, a wide variety of regimens may be used to administer
  MAPCs.
           In some embodiments MAPCs are administered to a subject in one dose. In
 others MAPCs are administered to a subject in a series of two or more doses in
 succession. In some other embodiments wherein MAPCs are administered in a single
 dose, in two doses, and/or more than two doses, the doses may be the same or different,
 and they are administered with equal or with unequal intervals between them.
          MAPCs may be administered in many frequencies over a wide range of times.
 In some embodiments, MAPCs are administered over a period of less than one day. In
 other embodiment they are administered over two, three, four, five, or six days. In some
 embodiments MAPCs are administered one or more times per week, over a period of
weeks. In other embodiments they are administered over a period of weeks for one to
several months. In various embodiments they may be administered over a period of
months. In others they may be administered over a period of one or more years.
Generally lengths of treatment will be proportional to the length of the disease process,
the effectiveness of the therapies being applied, and the condition and response of the
subject being treated.
Therapeutic Uses of Immunomodulatin2 MAPCs
                                              46

            The immunomodulatory properties of MAPCs may be used in treating a wide
   variety of disorders, dysfunctions and diseases, such as those that, intrinsically, as a
   secondary effect or as a side effect of treatment, present with deleterious immune system
   processes and effects. Several illustrations are discussed below.
            Many embodiments in this regard involve administering MAPCs to a subject
   having a weakened (or compromised) immune system, either as the sole therapy or as
   adjunctive therapy with another treatment. Ina variety of embodiments in this regard
   MAPCs are administered to a subject adjunctively to radiation therapy or chemotherapy
   or a combination of radiation and chemotherapies that either have been, are being, or
  will be administered to the subject. In many such embodiments, the radiation therapy,
  chemotherapy, or a combination of radiation and chemotherapies are part of a transplant
  therapy. And in a variety of embodiments MAPCs are administered to treat a
  deleterious immune response, such as HVG or GVHD.
           In a variety of embodiments in this regard, the subject is the recipient of a non
  syngeneic, typically allogeneic, blood cell or bone marrow cell transplant, the immune
 system of the subject has been weakened or ablated by radiation therapy,
                                                                               chemotherapy,
 or a combination of radiation and chemotherapy, immunosuppressive drugs are being
 administered to the subject, the subject is at risk to develop or has developed graft
 versus host disease, and MAPCs are administered to the subject adjunctively to any one
 or more of the transplant, the radiation therapy and/or the chemotherapy, and the
 immunosuppressive drugs to treat, such as ameliorate, arrest, or eliminate, graft versus
 host disease in the subject.
          Neoplasms
          The term "neoplasm" generally denotes disorders involving the clonal
proliferation of cells. Neoplasms may be benign, which is to say, not progressive and
non-recurrent, and, if so, generally are not life-threatening. Neoplasms also may be
malignant, which is to say, that they progressively get worse, spread, and, as a rule, are
life threatening and often fatal.
          In various embodiments, MAPCs are administered to a subject suffering from a
neoplasm, adjunctive to a treatment thereof. For example, in some embodiments of the
invention in this regard, the subject is at risk for or is suffering from a neoplasm of
blood or bone marrow cells and has undergone or will undergo a blood or bone
                                                                                     marrow
                                               47

   transplant. Using the methods described herein for MAPC isolation, characterization,
   and expansion, together with the disclosures herein on immune-suppressing properties
   of MAPCs, MAPCs are administered to treat, such as to prevent, suppress, or diminish,
   the deleterious immune reactions, such as HVG and GVHD, that may complicate the
   transplantation therapy.
           In a variety of embodiments involving transplant therapies, MAPCs can be used
  alone for an immunosuppressive purpose, or together with other agents. MAPCs can be
  administered before, during, or after one or more transplants. If administered during
  transplant, MAPCs can be administered separately or together with transplant material.
  If separately administered, the MAPCs can be administered sequentially or
  simultaneously with the other transplant materials. Furthermore, MAPCs may be
  administered well in advance of the transplant and/or well after, alternatively to or in
  addition to administration at or about the same time as administration of the transplant.
          Other agents that can be used in conjunction with MAPCs, in transplantation
 therapies in particular, include immunomodulatory agents, such as those described
 elsewhere herein, particularly immunosuppressive agents, more particularly those
 described elsewhere herein, especially in this regard, one or more of a corticosteroid,
 cyclosporin A, a cyclosporin-like immunosuppressive compound, azathioprine,
 cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and an immunosuppressive monoclonal antibody
 agent.
          Among neoplastic disorders of bone marrow that are treated with MAPCs in
 embodiments of the invention in this regard are myeloproliferative disorders ("MPDs");
 myelodysplastic syndromes (or states) ("MDSs"), leukemias, and lymphoproliferative
 disorders including multiple myeloma and lymphomas.
         MPDs are distinguished by aberrant and autonomous proliferation of cells in
blood marrow. The disorder may involve only one type of cell or several. Typically,
MPDs involve three cell lineages and are erythrocytic, granulocytic, and thrombocytic.
Involvement of the three lineages varies from one MPD to another and between
occurrences of the individual types. Typically, they are differently affected and one cell
lineage is affected predominately in a given neoplasm. MPDs are not clearly malignant;
but they are classified as neoplasms and are characterized by aberrant, self-replication
                                             48

  of hematopoietic precursor cells in blood marrow. MPDs have the potential,
  nonetheless, to develop into acute leukemias.
           MDSs like MPDs are clonal disorders, and they are characterized by aberrant,
  self-replication of hematopoietic precursor cells in blood marrow. Like MPDs, they can
  develop into acute leukemias. Most, but not all, MDSs manifest peripheral blood
  cytopenias (chronic myelomonocytic leukemia is the exception), whereas MPDs do not.
           The laboratory and clinical manifestations of these disorders may vary with their
  course and between individual occurrences. Manifestations can overlap, and it can be
  difficult to make a certain diagnosis that distinguishes one disease from all the others.
  Diagnosis of neoplasms of bone marrow hematopoietic cells thus requires special
  caution, so as to not misdiagnose as a benign disorder one that is, in reality, deadly
  malignant.
          The following diseases are among the myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs) that
 may be treated with MAPCs, typically or adjunctively, in various embodiments of the
 invention: chronic myelocytic leukemia ("CML")/chronic granulocytic leukemia
 ("CGL"), agnogenic myelofibrosis, essential thrombocythemia, and polycythemia vera
          The following diseases are among the myclodysplastic syndromes (MDSs) that
 may be treated with MAPCs, typically or adjunctively, in various embodiments of the
 invention: refractory anemia, refractory anemia with ringed sideroblasts, refractory
 anemia with excess blasts, refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation, and
 chronic myelomonocytic leukemia.
         The following diseases are among the lymphoproliferative disorders, including
 multiple myelomas and lymphomas that may be treated with MAPCs, typically
 adjunctively, in various embodiments of the invention: pre-B acute lymphoblastic
leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia ("CLL"), B-cell lymphoma, hairy cell
leukemia, myeloma, multiple myeloma, T-acute lymphoblastic leukemia, peripheral T
cell lymphoma, other lymphoid leukemias, and other lymphomas.
         Also among neoplasms that may be treated with MAPCs, typically adjunctively,
in a variety of embodiments of the invention are the following: a benign neoplasm of
bone marrow cells, a myeloproliferative disorder, a myelodysplastic syndrome, or an
acute leukemia; chronic myelocytic leukemia ("CML") (also called chronic granulocytic
                                              49

   leukemia ("CGL")), agnogenic myelofibrosis, essential thrombocythemia, polycythemia
   vera, other myeloproliferative disorders, acute multiple myeloma, myeloblastic
   leukemia, acute promyelocytic leukemia, pre-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic
   lymphocytic leukemia ("CLL), B-cell lymphoma, hairy cell leukemia, myeloma, T
   acute lymphoblastic leukemia, peripheral T-cell lymphoma, other lymphoid leukemias,
   other lymphomas, or other acute leukemia.
           MAPCs may be administered adjunctively to a treatment for any of the foregoing
  diseases.
           Treatments Involving Immunoablation or Compromise
           Acute leukemias often are difficult to treat by methods that have been effective
  for other malignancies. This is partly due to the mobility of cells from bone marrow,
  including those of a neoplasm. Partly it may be due to the diffuse distribution of bone
 marrow throughout the skeleton. And partly it is due, no doubt, to the nature of the cells
 themselves and their transformation.
          At present, a standard treatment for hematologic malignancies involves ablating
 all hematopoietic cells in the patient. There is no way to do this without also ablating
 the patient's healthy hematopoietic cells. Typically, the patient is treated using chemo
 radiotherapy in sufficiently high doses to kill virtually all bone marrow cells, both
 normal and neoplastic. The treatment's side effects are severe, and its effects on patients
 are unpleasant, painful, and physically and emotionally debilitating. The treatment not
 only ablates the diseased tissue and cells, it also eviscerates the patients hematopoictic
 system and immune system. The treatment leaves them compromised, dependent on
 transfusions, and so highly susceptible to infection that even an otherwise minor
 exposure to an infectious agent can be fatal.
          Normal hematopoietic capacity is restored thereafter by either autologous or
allogeneic peripheral blood or bone marrow transplants. Unfortunately, the patient's
immune system not only is severely compromised by the ablative treatment, but also in
the case of allogeneic transplantation, by intentional immune suppression to prevent
rejection of the transplant and ensure engraftnent and proliferation of the new
hematopoietic stem cells that will repopulate the patient's marrow and regenerate the
patient's hematopoictic and immune systems.
                                              50

            Many complications have been encountered in carrying out such transplants to
   regenerate the hematopoietic and immune systems in an immunocompromised host.
   One is rejection by residual immune competent cells and processes in the host, referred
   to herein as HVG response. Another is triggered by inmmnocompetent cells in the graft,
   referred to herein as GVHD.
           These complications might be avoided by using syngeneic or autologous donor
   material. However, syngeneic donors generally are rare and autologous transplants have
   a high risk of disease recurrence. Hence, transplants generally use allogeneic cells and
   tissues obtained from an HLA compatible donor. Unfortunately this procedure results in
   GVHD, ranging from mild to severe in the preponderance of those receiving this form
  of therapy. If not at least ameliorated, these immune reactions will result in failure of
  the transplant therapy, and may themselves be fatal to the patient
           A variety of agents have been developed to suppress immune responses that
  ameliorate graft complications, such as HVG and GVHD, as discussed herein above.
  Some are sufficiently effective to reduce adverse immune reactions to a manageable
  level in some transplant therapies, such as bone marrow and peripheral blood
  transplantation. These agents have improved the prognosis for transplant patients, to
  some extent; but, none of them is fully effective, and all of them have rather substantial
  shortcomings.
          It has been found (as described in greater detail elsewhere herein) that MAPCs
 do not provoke an immune response in allogeneic hosts. Transplantation of MAPCs to
 an allogeneic host does not, thus, engender allogeneic graft rejection (i.e., HVG).
          Furthermore, it has also been found that allogeneic MAPCs can be administered
 to a host at high concentration without deleterious effects on respiration.
          In addition, it has been found, (as described in greater detail elsewhere herein)
that MAPCs can modulate immune responses. In particular in this regard, it has been
found that MAPCs can suppress immune responses, including but not limited to
immune responses involved in, for example, HVG response and GVHD, to name just
two. In an even more detailed particular in this regard, it has been found that MAPCs
can suppress proliferation of T-cells, even in the presence of potent T-cell stimulators,
such as Concanavalin A and allogeneic or xenogeneic stimulator cells.
                                               51

          Moreover, it has been found that even relatively small amounts of MAPCs can
  suppress these responses. Indeed, only 3%MAPCs in mixed lymphocyte reactions is
  sufficient to reduce T-cell response by 50% in vitro.
          Accordingly, embodiments of the invention provide compositions and methods
  and the like for treating, such as for ameliorating, and/or curing or eliminating,
  neoplasms, such as neoplasms of hematopoietic cells, particularly those of bone
  marrow.
          Among these are those that are myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs), such as
  chronic myelocytic leukemia (also called "chronic granulocytic leukemia" and "CGL"),
 agnogenic myelofibrosis, essential thrombocythemia, polycythemia vera;
 myelodysplastic syndromes (MDSs), such as refractory anemia, refractory anemia with
 ringed sideroblasts, refractory anemia with excess blasts, refractory anemia with excess
 blasts in transformation, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia; and clearly malignant
 neoplasms - the acute leukemias - such as acute myeloblastic leukemia, chronic
 myelogenous leukemia (CML), acute promyelocytic leukemia, B-acute lymphoblastic
 leukemia, CLL, B-cell lymphoma, hairy cell leukemia, myeloma, T-acute lymphoblastic
 leukemia, peripheral T-cell lymphoma, and other lymphoid leukemias and lymphomas.
          MAPCs may be administered adjunctively to a treatment for any of the foregoing
 diseases.
         Anemias and Other Disordersofthe Blood
         In various embodiments of the invention, MAPCs may be used to treat an
 anemia or other blood disorder, often adjunctively. Among various embodiments in this
regard are embodiments in which MAPCs are used to treat the following anemias and/or
blood disorders, either solely or, typically, adjunctively: hemoglobinopathies,
thalassemia, bone marrow failure syndrome, sickle cell anemia, aplastic anemia, or an
immune hemolytic anemia. Also, disorders include refractory anemia, refractory anemia
with ringed sideroblasts, refractory anemia with excess blasts, refractory anemia with
excess blasts in transformation, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, or other
myclodysplastic syndrome, and in some embodiments, Fanconi's anemia.
         MAPCs may be administered adjunctively to a treatment for any of the foregoing
diseases.
        Immune Diseases
                                              52

          Embodiments of the invention relate to using MAPC immunomodulation to treat
  an immune dysfunction, disorder, or disease, either solely, or as an adjunctive therapy.
 Embodiments in this regard relate to congenital immune deficiencies and autoimmune
 dysfunctions, disorders, and diseases. Various embodiments relate, in this regard, to
 using MAPCs to treat, solely or adjunctively, Crohn's disease, Guillain-Barr6 syndrome,
 lupus erythematosus (also called "SLE" and systemic lupus erythematosus), multiple
 sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, optic neuritis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, Graves'
 disease, Hashimoto's disease, Ord's thyroiditis, diabetes mellitus (type 1), Reiter's
 syndrome, autoimmune hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, antiphospholipid antibody
 syndrome ("APS"), opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome ("OMS"), temporal arteritis, acute
 disseminated encephalomyelitis ("ADEM" and "ADE"), Goodpastures, syndrome,
 Wegener's granulomatosis, celiac disease, pemphigus, polyarthritis, and warm
 autoimmune hemolytic anemia.
         Particular embodiments among these relate to Crohn's disease, lupus
 erythematosus (also called "SLE" and systemic lupus erythematosus), multiple sclerosis,
 myasthenia gravis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, Graves' disease, Hashimoto's disease,
 diabetes mellitus (type 1), Reiter's syndrome, primary biliary cirrhosis, celiac disease,
 polyarthritis, and warm autoimmune hemolytic anemia.
         In addition, MAPCs are used in a variety of embodiments in this regard, solely
 and, typically, adjunctively, to treat a variety of diseases thought to have an autoimmune
 component, including but not limited to embodiments that may be used to treat
 endometriosis, interstitial cystitis, neuromyotonia, scleroderma, progressive systemic
 scleroderma, vitiligo, vulvodynia, Chagas' disease, sarcoidosis, chronic fatigue
syndrome, and dysautonomia.
        Inherited immune system disorders include Severe Combined Immunodeficiency
(SCID) including but not limited to SCID with Adenosine Deaminase Deficiency
(ADA-SCID), SCID which is X-linked, SCID with absence of T & B Cells, SCID with
absence of T Cells, Normal B Cells, Omen Syndrome, Neutropenias including but not
limited to Kostmann Syndrome, Myelokathexis; Ataxia-Telangiectasia, Bare
Lymphocyte Syndrome, Common Variable Immunodeficiency, DiGeorge Syndrome,
Leukocyte Adhesion Deficiency; and phagocyte Disorders (phagocytes are immune
system cells that can engulf and kill foreign organisms) including but not limited to
                                               53

           MAPCs were initially isolated from bone marrow, but were subsequently
  established from other tissues, including brain and muscle (Jiang, Y. et al., 2002). Thus,
  MAPCs can be isolated from multiple sources, including bone marrow, placenta,
  umbilical cord and cord blood, muscle, brain, liver, spinal cord, blood or skin. For
  example, MAPCs can be derived from bone marrow aspirates, which can be obtained by
  standard means available to those of skill in the art (see, for example, Muschler, G.F., et
  al., 1997; Batinic, D., et al., 1990).
  Phenotype of Human MAPCs Under Conditions Described in U.S. Patent No. 7.015,037
           Immunophenotypic analysis by FACS of human MAPCs obtained after 22-25
  cell doublings indicated that the cells do not express CD31, CD34, CD36, CD38, CD45,
 CD50, CD62E and -P, HLA-DR, Muc18, STRO-1, cKit, Tie/Tek; and express low
 levels of CD44, HLA-class I, and $2-microglobulin, but express CD1O, CD13, CD49b,
 CD49e, CDw90, Flkl (N>10).
          Once cells underwent >40 doublings in cultures re-seeded at about 2 x 103/cm2 ,
 the phenotype became more homogenous, and no cell expressed HLA class-I or CD44
 (n=6). When cells were grown at higher confluence, they expressed high levels of
 Muc 8, CD44, HLA class I and P2-microglobulin, which is similar to the phenotype
 described for MSC (N=8) (Pittenger, 1999).
          Immunohistochemistry showed that human MAPCs grown at about 2 x 103/cm 2
 seeding density expressed EGF-R, TGF-Ri and -2, BMP-RlA, PDGF-RI a and -B, and
that a small subpopulation (between 1 and 10%) of MAPCs stained with anti-SSEA4
antibodies (Kannagi, R, 1983).
          Using Clontech cDNA arrays the expressed gene profile of human MAPCs
cultured at seeding densities of about 2 x 10' cells/cm 2 for 22 and 26 cell doublings was
determined:
         A.      MAPCs did not express CD31, CD36, CD62E, CD62P, CD44-H, cKit,
Tie, receptors for ILl, 1L3, IL6, ILl 1, G CSF, GM-CSF, Epo, Flt3-L, or CNTF, and low
levels of HLA-class-I, CD44-E and Muc-1 8 mRNA.
         B.      MAPCs expressed mRNA for the cytokines BMP1, BMP5, VEGF,
                                                                                      HGF,
KGF, MCP1; the cytokine receptors Flkl, EGF-R, PDGF-Rla, gpl30, LIF-R, activin
                                              55

  Chediak-Higashi Syndrome, Chronic Granulomatous Disease, Neutrophil Actin
  Deficiency, Reticular Dysgenesis.
           MAPCs may be administered adjunctively to a treatment for any of the foregoing
  diseases.
           Inflammatory Diseases
           Additionally, in a variety of embodiments of the invention, MAPCs may be used
  to treat inflammatory diseases, either as a sole agent or adjunctively. In many such
  embodiments MAPCs may be used to treat serious inflammatory states, such as those
 that arise from acute allergic reaction, or ancillary to other diseases or treatments. For
 the most part, at present, the use of MAPCs in this regard is limited to acute cases in
 which the subject is at risk of great incapacity or loss or life.
          MAPCs may be administered adjunctively to a treatment for any of the foregoing
 diseases.
 MAPCs as Described in U.S. Patent No. 7,015,037
          Human MAPCs are described in the art. Methods of MAPC isolation for
 humans and mouse are known in the art. It is therefore now possible for one of skill in
 the art to obtain bone marrow aspirates, brain or liver biopsies, and other organs, and
 isolate the cells using positive or negative selection techniques available to those of skill
in the art, relying upon the genes that are expressed (or not expressed) in these cells
(e.g., by functional or morphological assays such as those disclosed in the above
referenced applications, which have been incorporated herein by reference). Such
methods are described in, for instance, U.S. Patent No. 7,015,037, the contents of which
are incorporated herein by reference for their description of MAPCs and methods of
preparation.
Isolation and Growth of MAPCs as described in PCT/US00/21387
          Methods of MAPC isolation for humans and mouse are known in the art. They
are described in, for instance, US Patent No. 7,015,037, PCT/US00/21387 (published as
WO 01/11011), and PCT/USO2/04652 (published as WO 02/064748), and these
methods, along with the characterization of MAPCs disclosed therein, are incorporated
herein by reference.
                                              54

   R1 and -R2, TGFR-2, BMP-R1A; the adhesion receptors CD49c, CD49d, CD29; and
   CDIO.
          C.       MAPCs expressed mRNA for hTRT and TRF1; the POU domain
  transcription factor oct-4, sox-2 (required with oct-4 to maintain undifferentiated state of
  ES/EC, Uwanogho D., 1995), sox 11 (neural development), sox 9 (chondrogenesis)
  (Lefebvre V., 1998); homeodeomain transcription factors: Hox-a4 and -a5 (cervical and
  thoracic skeleton specification; organogenesis of respiratory tract) (Packer AL, 2000),
  Hox-a9 (myelopoiesis) (Lawrence H, 1997), Dlx4 (specification of forebrain and
  peripheral stmctures of head) (Akimenko MA, 1994), MSX1 (embryonic mesoderm,
  adult heart and muscle, chondro- and osteogenesis) (Foerst-Potts L. 1997), PDX1
  (pancreas) (Offield MF, 1996).
          D.      Presence of oct-4, LIF-R, and hTRT mRNA was confirmed by RT-PCR.
          E.      In addition, RT-PCR showed that rex-i mRNA and rox-1 mRNA were
 expressed in MAPCs.
          Oct-4, rex-i and rox-i were expressed in MAPCs derived from human and
 marine marrow and from murine liver and brain. Human MAPCs expressed LIF-R and
 stained positive with SSEA-4. Finally, oct-4, LIF-R, rex-i and rox-1 mRNA levels
 were found to increase in human MAPCs cultured beyond 30 cell doublings, which
 resulted in phenotypically more homogenous cells. In contrast, MAPCs cultured at high
 density lost expression of these markers. This was associated with senescence before 40
 cell doublings and loss of differentiation to cells other than chondroblasts, osteoblasts,
and adipocytes. Thus, the presence of oct-4, combined with rex-1, rox-1, and sox-2,
correlated with the presence of the most primitive cells in MAPCs cultures.
         Methods for culturing MAPCs are well-known in the art. (See for instance, U.S.
Patent No. 7,015,037, which is herein incorporated by reference as to methods for
culturing MAPCs.) The density for culturing MAPCs can vary from about 100
cells/cm2 or about 150 cells/cm2 to about 10,000 cells/cm 2 , including about 200
cells/cm2 to about 1500 cells/cm 2 to about 2000 cells/cm 2 . The density can vary
between species. Additionally, optimal density can vary depending on culture
conditions and source of cells. It is within the skill of the ordinary artisan to determine
the optimal density for a given set of culture conditions and cells.
                                              56

         Also, effective atmospheric oxygen concentrations of less than about 10%,
including about 3 - 5%, can be used at any time during the isolation, growth, and
differentiation of MAPCs in culture.
         The present invention is additionally described by way of the following
illustrative, non-limiting examples.
                                         Examples
EXAMPLE 1: Human MAPCs (from Bone Marrow Mononuclear Cells)
         Bone marrow mononuclear cells were obtained from bone marrow aspirates
from the posterior iliac crest of>80 healthy human volunteers. Ten to 100 cubic
centimeters of bone marrow was obtained from each subject. Mononuclear cells
("MNCs") were obtained from bone marrow by centrifugation over a Ficoll-Paque
density gradient (Sigma Chemical Co., St Louis, MO). Bone marrow MNCs were
incubated with CD45 and Glycophorin A microbeads (Miltenyi Biotec, Sunnyvale, CA)
 for 15 minutes and CD454 GlyA+ cells removed by placing the sample in front of a
 SuperMACS magnet. The eluted cells are 99.5% CD45GlyA.
         Depletion of CD45GlyA* cells resulted in recovery of CD45'GlyA cells which
 constituted approximately 0.05 to 0.10% of the total bone marrow mononuclear cells.
 Cells were selected that do not express the common leukocyte antigen CD45, or the
 erythroid precursor marker glycophorin-A (GlyA). CD45'GlyA' cells constitute 1/10'
marrow mononuclear cells. CD45GlyA cells were plated in wells coated with
 fibronectin in 2% FCS, EGF, PDGF-BB, dexamethasone, insulin, linoleic acid, and
 ascorbic acid. After 7-21 days, small clusters of adherent cells developed. Using
 limiting dilution assays, the frequency of cells giving rise to these adherent clusters is
 1/5 x 10' CD45fGly      cells. When colonies appeared (about 10' cells), cells were
recovered by trypsinization and re-plated every 3-5 days at a 1:4 dilution under the same
 culture conditions. Cell densities were maintained between 2-8 x 10' cells/cm.
 EXAMPLE 2: Mouse MAPCs
         All tissues were obtained according to guidelines from the University of
Minnesota IACUC. BM mononuclear cells (BMMNC) were obtained by Ficoll
                                              57

 Hypaque separation. BM was obtained from 5-6 week old ROSA26 mice or C57/BL6
 mice. Alternatively, muscle and brain tissue was obtained from 3-day old 129 mice.
 Muscles from the proximal parts of fore and hind limbs were excised and thoroughly
 minced. The tissue was treated with 0.2% collagenase (Sigma Chemical Co., St Louis,
 MO) for 1 hour at 370C, followed by 0.1% trypsin (Invitrogen, Grand Island, NY) for 45
 minutes. Cells were then triturated vigorously and passed through a 70 pm filter. Cell
 suspensions were collected and centrifuged for 10 minutes at 1600 rpm. Brain tissue
 was dissected and minced thoroughly. Cells were dissociated by incubation with 0.1%
 frypsin and 0.1% DNAse (Sigma) for 30 minutes at 37 *C. Cells were then triturated
 vigorously and passed through a 70 pm filter. Cell suspensions were collected and
 centrifuged for 10 minutes at 1600 rpm.
         BMMNC or muscle or brain suspensions were plated at 1 x IO'/cm2 in
 expansion medium [2% FCS in low glucose Dulbecco's minimal essential medium (LG
 DMEM), 10 ng/ml each of platelet derived growth factor (PDGF), epidermal growth
 factor (EGF) and leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF)] and maintained at 5 x 103/cm 2. After
 3-4 weeks, cells recovered by trypsin/EDTA were depleted of CD45*GlyA+ cells with
 micromagnetic beads. Resulting CD45'GlyA cells were related at 10 cells/well in 96
well plates coated with FN and were expanded at cell densities between 0.5 and 1.5 x
 103/cm'. The expansion potential of MAPCs was similar regardless of the tissue from
which they were derived.
EXAMPLE 3: Rat MAPCs
         BM and MNCs from Sprague Dawley, Lewis, or Wistar rats were obtained and
plated under conditions similar to those described for mMAPCs.
EXAMPLE 4: Clonality of Mouse and Rat MAPCs
         To demonstrate that differentiated cells were single cell-derived and MAPCs are
indeed "clonal" multipotent cells, cultures were made in which MAPCs had been
transduced with a retroviral vector. Undifferentiated MAPCs and their progeny were
found to have the retrovirus inserted in the same site in the genome.
                                             58

          Studies were done using two independently derived ROSA26 MAPCs, two
 C57BL/6 MAPCs, and one rMAPC population expanded for 40 to >90 PDs, as well as
 with the eGFP transduced "clonal" mouse and "clonal" rMAPCs. No differences were
 seen between eGFP transduced and untransduced cells. Of note, eGFP expression
 persisted in differentiated MAPCs.
          Specifically, murine and rat BMMNCs cultured on FN with EGF, PDGF-BB,
 and LIF for three weeks were transduced on two sequential days with an eGFP
 oncoretroviral vector. Afterwards, CD45*and GlyA cells were depleted and cells sub
 cultured at 10 cells/well. eGFP-transduced rat BMMNCs were expanded for 85 PDs.
 Alternatively, mouse MAPCs expanded for 80 PDS were used. Subcultures of
 undifferentiated MAPCs were generated by plating 100 MAPCs from cultures
 maintained for 75 PDs and re-expanding them to > 5 x 106 cells. Expanded MAPCs
 were induced to differentiate in vitro to endothelium, neuroectoderm, and endoderm.
 Lineage differentiation was shown by staining with antibodies specific for these cell
 types.
 EXAMPLE 5: Human MAPCs Are Not Immunofenic
          Mesenchymal stem cells have demonstrated low in vitro immunogenicity and the
 ability to engraft across allogeneic recipients (Di Nicola, M. et al. (2002) Blood 99: 3838
 3843; Jorgensen, C. et al. (2002) Gene Therav 10: 928-931; Le Blanc, K. et al. (2003)
 Scandinavian Journal of Immunoloay 57: 11-20; McIntosh, K. et al. (2000) Graft 6: 324
328; Tse, W. et al. (2003) Transplantation 75: 389-397).
          Figure 3 shows that human MAPCs exhibit low in vitro immunogenicity and are
immunosuppressive when added to otherwise potent T-cell MLRs (Tse, W. et al. (2003)).
Results were consistent across all donor and responder pairs tested.
          Responder and stimulator cells were prepared for these experiments and the MLRs
were performed according to the procedures described by Tse, W. et al. (2003).
EXAMPLE 6: MAPCs Modulate T-Cell Resoonses
          The ability of MAPCs to modulate, and in this case suppress, immune
responsiveness is illustrated by T-cell proliferation assays, for example, which can be
carried out as follows.
                                               59

Preparationof Responder T-Cells
        Responder cells were prepared from lymph nodes of Lewis rats. Lymph nodes
were surgically removed from the rats and immediately placed into 3 to 5 ml of media
(complete RPMI or complete DMEM) in 60 x 15 mm Petri plates. The lymph nodes
were dispersed through a nylon filter (using the hand plunger of a syringe). The
dispersions were loaded into 50 ml tubes and centrifuged at 1,250 rpm for 8 minutes.
The resulting supernatants (media) were discarded. The pellets (containing the cells)
were resuspended in fresh media (complete RPMI or complete DMEM). The cells were
washed three times, and then resuspended in fresh media. Resuspended cell densities
were determined by counting the number of cells in a known volume thereof. The cells
were maintained on ice. Prior to use, the cells were resuspended in media (complete
RPMI or complete DMEM) at a density of 1.25 x 106 cells/nil.
PreparationofMAPCs
        MAPCs were prepared from Lewis or from Sprague-Dawley rats and then frozen
as described above. They were thawed and then irradiated at 3000 rad. The irradiated
cells were then resuspended in media (complete RPMI or complete DMEM) to densities
of 0.4 x 106 cells/ml, 0.8 x 106 cells/ml, and 1.6 x 106 cells/mil.
Preparationof ConcanavalinA
        Concanavalin A ("ConA") was used to activate the T-cells. The ConA was
dissolved in PBS (complete RPMI or complete DMEM) to final concentrations of 0
(PBS only) 10, 30, and 100 pg/ml.
Assay Procedure
        Each data point is based on at least three determinations.
        20 pl of each of the ConA solutions was added to wells of microtiter plates (96
well, flat bottom), followed by 80 pl/well of the responder cells and 100 p1/well of the
MAPCs. The plates were incubated at 37"C in humidified incubators under 5% CO2 for
4-5 days. The plates were pulsed with I pCi/well 3H-thymidine during the last 14-18
hours of culture. Thereafter, the cells were automatically harvested on glass fiber filters
using a Tomtec harvesting machine. The thymidine uptake was quantified in a micro
plate scintillation counter. Results were expressed as mean counts per minute (CPM)
+/- SD.
                                              60

          Final concentrations of ConA in the growth media in the wells were 0, 1, 3.16,
 and 10 pg/ml. MAPCs were present in the wells in the amounts of 0, 0.4, 0.8, and 1.6 x
  io5 cells/well.
          The results, described below, are illustrated in Figure 4.
 Results
          Increasing amounts of ConA resulted in a dose-dependent stimulation of T-cell
 proliferation (Figure 4, LN only). Lewis MAPCs inhibited proliferation of the ConA
 stimulated T-cells. The inhibition depended on the dose of MAPCs. The maximum
 inhibition, 50%, occurred at the highest dose of MAPCs used in these experiments and
 with low and intermediate doses of ConA. These results are displayed graphically in
 Figure 4 and show that MAPCs suppress the proliferation of activated T-cells.
 EXAMPLE 7: MAPCs Suporess Proliferation of Stimulated T-Cells
          The ability of MAPCs to suppress proliferation of syngeneic and non-matched
 (allogeneic) T-cell proliferative responses is demonstrated by the results of mixed
lymphocyte reactions. The example below shows the suppressive effects of MAPCs on
T-cells from Lewis rats stimulated by irradiated splenocytes from DA rats. MAPCs
from syngeneic Lewis rats and non-matched (allogeneic) Sprague-Dawley rats both
inhibited T-cell responses in a dose-dependent manner. The experiments were carried
out as follows.
PreparationofResponder T-Cells
          Responder cells were prepared from the lymph nodes of Lewis rats as described
above.
IrradiatedSpleen Stimulator Cells
          Spleens were surgically removed from DA rats. Splenocytes then were isolated
from the spleens essentially as described above for the isolation of responder cells from
the lymph nodes of Lewis rats. The isolated spleen cells were irradiated at 1800 rad.
The cells then were resuspended to 4 x 106/ml and kept on ice until they were used.
PreparationofMAPCs
          Syngeneic MAPCs were prepared from Lewis rats as described above. Non
matched (allogeneic) MAPCs were prepared from Sprague-Dawley rats in the same
way. Both Lewis and Sprague-Dawley MAPCs were irradiated at 3000 rad, then
                                              61

  resuspended in complete RPMI media at densities of 0.03 x l0'/nl, 0.06 x 106/ml, 0.125
  x 106/ml, 0.25 x 106/ml, 0.5 x 106/ml, I x 106/ml, and 2 x 106/ml.
  Assay Procedure
           96 well microtiter plate wells were loaded with: 100 plof MAPCs (at the
  dilutions indicated above) or 100 pl of media; 50 ptl of a stimulator cell stock or control;
  50 p1 each of a responder cell stock or control; and media (complete RPMI or complete
  DMEM) as required to equalize total volumes to a final volume of 200 l/well. 96 well
  flat bottom microtiter plates were used for all assays.
           Each data point is based on at least three determinations.
          The plates were incubated at 370C in humidified incubators under 5%CO2 for 4
  5 days. The plates were pulsed with IpCi/well 3H-thymidine during the last 14-18
  hours of culture. Thereafter, the cells were automatically harvested on glass fiber filters
  using a Tomtec harvesting machine. The thymidine uptake was quantified in a micro
 plate scintillation counter. Results were expressed as mean counts per minute (CPM)
 +/- SD.
 Results
          Exposure of T-cells derived from the lymph nodes of Lewis rats (Responders) to
 stimulator cells consisting of iradiated splenocytes from DA rats (Stimulators) resulted
 in very robust proliferative responses of responder cells, as shown in Figures SA and 5B,
 for "no MAPC".
          Addition of increasing doses of syngeneic Lewis MAPCs (Figure SA) and non
 matched (allogeneic) third-party Sprague-Dawley MAPCs (Figure 5B) resulted in a
 significant and dose-dependent inhibition of T-cell activation. Maximal levels of
inhibition were ~80%. Even at the lowest doses of MAPCs, there was 40-50%
inhibition.
         There was no'H-thymidine incorporation in the controls, showing that
incorporation was due solely to proliferation of activated responder T-cells, as shown in
Figures 5A and 5B.
         In summary, the results show that syngeneic and third-party (allogeneic) MAPCs
suppress T-cell proliferation even in the presence of potent activator splenocytes from
non-matched rats. In these experiments, inhibition peaked when there were similar
numbers (200,000 cells) each of stimulators, responders, and MAPCs in the reaction.
                                              62

Under these conditions, there was ~80% inhibition. There was very substantial
 inhibition at much lower ratios of MAPCs to the other cells in the reaction. For
 instance, at 1.5% MAPCs, there was 50% inhibition (3,000 MAPCs versus 200,000 of
 each of the types of cells). The results demonstrate not only that MAPCs have a strong
 immunosuppressive effect, but also that a relatively small number of MAPCs is
 sufficient to inhibit a relatively large number of competent T-cells even in the presence
 of very potent T-cell activators.
EXAMPLE 8: MAPCs Are Safe
         The main immediate risk of intravenous injection of large numbers of cells is the
accumulation of cell clumps in the lungs which results in respiratory distress and can
cause cardiac arrest. To show the safety of MAPCs in this regard, we measured the
effects of intravenous injection of MAPCs on respiratory rates in Buffalo rats.
         MAPCs were prepared from Lewis rats as described above ("Lewis MAPCs").
Splenocytes also were prepared from Lewis rats as described above for use as controls
("Lewis Splenocytes").
         One female Lewis rat served as the splenocyte donor for each group (experimental
condition). Two female Buffalo rats were used as recipients for each group (experimental
condition).
         The cells were administered to the rats as indicated below. The data are
displayed graphically in Figure 6. The concordance of data points to the individual rats
as numbered below is enumerated in the vertical legend at the right of Figure 6. All rats
were Buffalo rats.
         1.1, 1.2         10 x 10Lewis MAPC per rat
         2.1,2.2          5 x 10' Lewis MAPC per rat
         3.1,3.2          2.5 x 106 Lewis MAPC per rat
         4.1,4.2          1.2 x 106 Lewis MAPC per rat
         5.1, 5.2         10 x 106 Lewis Splenocytes per rat
         6.1, 6.2         5 x 106 Lewis Splenocytes per rat
         7.1, 7.2         2.5 x 106 Lewis Splenocytes per rat
         8.1, 8.2         1.2 x 106 Lewis Splenocytes per rat
         As indicated above, rats were injected with 1.2, 2.5, 5, or 10 million MAPCs or
1.2, 2.5, 5, or 10 million splenocytes. This corresponded to 5, 10, 25, or 50 million
cells/kg. Respiratory rates were measured before (0 min) and at 1, 5, and 10 min after
                                              63

  intravenous injection of the MAPCs or splenocytes. Respiratory rates were measured
  for 20 seconds and the counts were multiplied by 3 to derive the per minute respiratory
  rates. Normal rat respiratory rates are between 60 and 140/min.
  Results
          All animals survived after intravenous cell injections. No significant differences
  or trends were observed in the respiratory rates under the different conditions. The
  results are shown in Figure 6. Initial respiratory rates (0 min) were slightly reduced
  because the animals were anesthetized before the cells were injected. At each time
  point, measurements were clustered without any apparent trends.
          In summary, intravenous injection of 5-50 million MAPCs/kg did not cause
  changes in respiratory rates or mortality in any of the rats under any of the conditions.
  The results show that intravenous injection of MAPCs is safe even at high doses.
  EXAMPLE 9: MAPC Exoression of Immune Markers
          The immunomodulatorynature ofMAPCs was further characterized by determining
 immune regulatorymarkers in MAPCs, such as those described by Bary et al. (2005). The
 markers were determined using marker-specific antibodies and FACS analysis.
          Rat bone marrow MAPCs were isolated, cultured, and harvested as described
 above. For FACS analysis, the cells were suspended at 1-2 x 10' cells/il in PBS. 200
 pl of the cell suspension was added to each of a series of 12 x 75 polypropylene tubes.
 A marker-specific antibody or a control was added to each of the tubes, and they were
 then incubated for 15-20 minutes at room temperature. At the end of the incubation
 period, 2 ml of PBS was added to each tube and they were then centrifuged at 400 x g
 for 5 minutes. Supernatants were discarded and the cells were resuspended in each tube
 in 100 pl of PBS. A fluorescent labeled secondary antibody was added to each tube in
an appropriate volume, and the tubes were again incubated for 15-20 minutes at room
temperature, this time in the dark. Thereafter, 2 ml of PBS was added to each tube and
they were again centrifuged at 400 x g for 5 minutes. Supernatants were discarded, and
the cells in each tube were resuspended in 200 pl of PBS and were then kept on ice until
analyzed by FACS.
                                              64

          Results are enumerated and presented graphically in Table 1. As shown in the
 table, rat MAPCs are: (a) positive for MHC class I, CD 11c, CD29, and CD90, and (b)
 negative for MHC class II, CDI1b, CD3l,'CD40, CD45, CD54, CD80, CD86, CD 95,
 and CD106. Negative results were validated for each antibody by positive staining of
 control cells, including rat peripheral blood and endothelial cells. These patterns of
 marker expression, as to both the markers that are detected in MAPCs and those that
 were not detected, are fully consistent with the low immunostimulatory cross-section of
 MAPCs.
              Table 1 - Detection of Immune Cell-Related Markers in MAPCs
                                                   Commercial Anti-           FACS
    Marker          Name/Function of Marker      Rat-Marker Antibody        Detection
 MHC class I |                                            yes                Positive
 MHC class II __yes                                                         Negative
 CDllb             Mac-I                                 yes                Negative
 CDlc              Integrin aX                           yes                 Positive
 CD29             Integrin 1                             yes                 Positive
 CD31             PECAM-1                                yes                Negative
 CD40             TNFRSF
                                                         yes                Negative
 CD45             Leukocyte common antigen               yes                Negative
 CD54             ICAM-1                                 yes                Negative
 CD80             B7-1                                   yes                Negative
CD86              B7-2                                   yes                Negative
CD90              Thy-1                                  yes                 Positive
CD95              Apo-I                                  yes                Negative
CD106             VCAM-1                                 yes                Negative
EXAMPLE 10: MAPCs Sunress Previously Stimulated T-Cells in MLRs
Cells
         Responder cells were prepared from the lymph nodes of Lewis rats as described
above. Splenocytes, prepared from Buffalo or DA rats, as described above, were used
as stimulators. MAPCs were prepared as described above,
Procedures
         MAPCs were added to a first group of MLRs at the same time as splenocytes (as
was done in the foregoing examples). In addition, MAPCs were added to a second
group of MLRs that were set-up identically to the first group. However, the MAPCs in
the second group were added 3 days after the addition of the splenocytes (or control).
                                              65

   Thus, in the first group, MAPCs were added before the T-cells began proliferating in
   response to the splenocytes. In the second group, the MAPCs were added when the T
   cell response to the splenocytes had been underway for 3 days. All plates were
   incubated for a total of 4 days, then pulsed with 3H-thymidine and harvested, as
   described in the foregoing examples. The experiments otherwise were carried out as
   described for the MLRs in the foregoing examples.
            Each data point is based on at least three determinations.
  Results
            As can be seen from the right side of Figure 7, MAPCs strongly suppress T-cell
  proliferation in MLRs when they are added three days after stimulation by allogeneic
  splenocytes. Comparison of the left and right sides of Figure 7 shows that MAPCs
  strongly suppress the on-going proliferation reaction. Quantitatively, the results show
  for Buffalo cells that MAPCs added 3 days post-stimulation suppressed T-cell
 proliferation 50% compared to controls (right side of the figure), and 75% when added
  at the same time as the stimulatory splenocytes (left side of the figure). Similarly, for
 DA cells, MAPCs added 3 days post-stimulation suppressed T-cell proliferation 33%
 compared to controls (right side of the figure), and 70% when added at the same time as
 the stimulatory splenocytes (left side of the figure).
           In all cases, the degree of immunosuppression by MAPCs depended, in general,
 on the number of MAPCs that were added to the reaction. In other words,
 immunosuppression depended on the dose of MAPCs added to the MLRs.
          Publications cited above are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety as
 to specific subject matter for which they have been cited.
EXAMPLE 11: MAPC Inhibition of T Lymphocytes is Reversible
          T cells were cultured with allogeneic splenocyte stimulators for 13 days in the
presence or absence of irradiated MAPCs. Following the 13-day culture, T cells were
recovered and replated with irradiated allogeneic splenocytes, with or without MAPCs,
and cultured for 4 days.
          Proliferation of T cells that was inhibited by the presence of irradiated MAPCs
during the primary culture period was restored when MAPCs were absent during the
secondary culture. The presence of MAPCs in the secondary culture inhibited T cell
                                                66

 proliferation comparably to that in the primary culture, with up to 90% inhibition at a
  1:2 ratio of MAPCs to T cells. The results, presented in Figure 8, clearly demonstrate
 that inhibition of T cell proliferation by MAPCs in MLRs is reversible, and that MAPCs
 inhibit both primary and secondary T cell proliferative responses.
 EXAMPLE 12: MAPCs Prevent GVHD
          The ability of MAPCs to suppress GVHD was demonstrated in a rat model as
 follows. T cells from Buffalo rat donors served as the "graft" in Lewis x Buffalo rat
recipients. The Buffalo graft cells were activated by the "foreign" Lewis cells in the
host, leading to GVHD in the model.
          Fl recipient rats (Lewis x Buffalo) were sublethally irradiated on Day 0 with a
single 600 rad dose. The same day they were injected intravenously with 2 x 10W bone
marrow cells and 10 x 10' T cells (splenocytes) from donor Buffalo rats. The rats were
monitored 3x/week for signs of GVHD, evaluated by posture, activity, fur texture,
                                                                                      skin,
and weight loss.
          Group 1 received no MAPCs. Group 2 received 2.5 x 106 MAPCs on Day 1.
Group 3 received 2.5 x 106 MAPCs on each of Day 1 and Day 8. There were five rats in
each group. The results are shown in Figure 9. MAPC administration clearly improved
survival rates. Forty percent of the rats in Group 2 and sixty percent of the rats in Group
3 survived to the end of the experiment (42 days), whereas all of the rats not receiving
MAPCs (Group 1) succumbed to GVHD by day 21.
                                             67

           What is claimed is:
             .     A method of adjunctive treatment of a subject, comprising:
  administering to a subject at risk for or suffering from an immune dysfunction, by an
  effective route and in an effective amount to treat the immune dysfunction, cells that:
  are not embryonic stem cells, embryonic germ cells, or germ cells; can differentiate into
  at least one cell type of each of at least two of the endodermal, ectodermal, and
  mesodermal embryonic lineages; do not provoke a deleterious immune response in the
  subject; and are effective to treat the immune dysfunction in the subject, wherein the
  cells are administered adjunctively to one or more other treatments administered to the
  subject to treat the same thing, to treat something different, or both.
           2.      A method according to claim 1, wherein said cells can differentiate into
  at least one cell type of each of the endodermal, ectodermal, and mesodermal embryonic
 lineages.
           3.     A method according to claim 1, wherein said cells express telomerase.
           4.     A method according to claim 1, wherein said cells are positive for oct
 3/4.
           5.     A method according to claim 1, wherein said cells have undergone at
 least 10 to 40 cell doublings in culture prior to their administration to the subject.
          6.      A method according to claim 1, wherein said cells are allogeneic to the
 subject.
          7.      A method according to claim 1,wherein said cells are administered to the
subject adjunctively to another treatment that is administered before, at the same time
as, or after said cells are administered.
          8.      A method according to claim 1, wherein said cells are mammalian cells.
          9.      A method according to claim 8, wherein said cells are human cells.
          10.     A method according to claim 8, wherein said cells are derived from cells
isolated from placental tissue, umbilical cord tissue, umbilical cord blood, bone marrow,
blood, spleen tissue, thymus tissue, spinal cord tissue, or liver tissue.
          11.    A method according to claim 1, wherein the subject is a mammal.
          12.    A method according to claim 9, wherein the subject is human.
                                               68

            13.    A method according to claim 12, wherein said cells are administered to
   the subject in one or more doses comprising 10' to 108 of said cells per kilogram of the
   subject's mass.
            14.    A method according to claim 12, wherein the subject will receive or has
   received a transplant and will be at risk for or has developed a host versus graft response
   or graft versus host disease, and said cells are administered adjunctively to the
   transplant.
            15.    A method according to claim 14, wherein the transplant is an organ
  transplant, the subject is at risk for or has developed a host versus graft response, and
  said cells are administered adjunctively to the transplant to treat the host versus graft
  response.
           16.    A method according to claim 14, wherein the subject is or will be treated
  by radiation or chemotherapy or a combination of radiation and chemotherapy,
  weakening the subject's immune system, and treatment with said cells is adjunctive to
  the radiation, the chemotherapy, or the combination of the two.
           17.    A method according to claim 14, wherein said cells are administered to a
  subject having a compromised immune system.
           18.    A method according to claim 17, wherein the transplant is a bone marrow
 or blood transplant, the subject is at risk for or has developed graft versus host disease,
 and said cells are administered adjunctively to the transplant to treat the graft versus
 host disease.
           19.    A method according to claim 15, wherein the subject will be or is being
 treated with an immunosuppressive agent, and said treatment with said cells is
 adjunctive thereto.
          20.     A method according to claim 18 wherein the subject will be or is being
treated with an immunosuppressive agent, and said treatment with said cells is
adjunctive thereto.
          21.     A method according to claim 1, wherein the subject is at risk for or is
suffering from one or more of a neoplasm, an anemia or other blood disorder, and an
immune dysfunction, wherein treatment with said cells is adjunctive to a treatment
thereof.
                                                69

           22.     A method according to claim 1, wherein the subject is at risk for or is
   suffering from one or more of a mycloproliferative disorder, a myclodysplastic
  syndrome, leukemia, multiple myeloma, a lymphoma, a hemoglobinopathy, a
  thalassemia, a bone marrow failure syndrome, sickle cell anemia, aplastic anemia,
  Fanconi's anemia, an immune hemolytic anemia, a congenital immune deficiency, or an
  autoinmune dysfunction, wherein treatment with said cells is adjunctive to a treatment
  thereof.
           23.    A method of adjunctive treatment of a human subject, comprising:
  administering to a subject at risk for or suffering from graft versus host or host versus
  graft disease, by an effective route and in an effective amount to treat said disease,
  human cells that: are not embryonic stem cells, embryonic germ cells, or germ cells;
  can differentiate into at least one cell type of all three of the endodermal, ectodermal,
  and mesodermal embryonic lineages; do not provoke a deleterious immune response in
 the subject; and are effective to treat the disease in the subject, wherein the cells are
 administered adjunctively to one or more other treatments administered to the subject to
 treat the same disease, to treat something different, or both.
          24.     A method according to claim 23, wherein said cells have telomerase
 activity, are positive for oct-3/4, and have undergone at least 10 to 40 cell doublings in
 culture prior to their administration to the subject.
          25.     A method according to claim 24, wherein said cells are allogeneic to the
 subject.
          26.    A method according to claim 25, wherein the subject will receive or has
received a transplant and said cells are administered adjunctively to the transplant.
          27.    A method according to claim 25, wherein the subject is at risk for or is
suffering from one or more of a myeloproliferative disorder, a myelodysplastic
syndrome, leukemia, multiple myeloma, a lymphoma, a hemoglobinopathy, a
thalassemia, a bone marrow failure syndrome, sickle cell anemia, aplastic anemia,
Fanconi's anemia, an immune hemolytic anemia, a congenital immune deficiency, or an
autoimmune dysfunction, wherein treatment with said cells is adjunctive to a treatment
thereof.
                                                70

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
