                                           ABSTRACT
Methods, systems, and devices are disclosed for transforming product code snapshots into real
time, offer-driven electronic purchase transaction notifications that minimize fraud. In one
embodiment, a smart phone scans a product identifier from a product package, a server accesses
a products database for product purchase offers associated with the product identifier, a user
authorizes a credit card from his or her wallet to charge, and then product purchase offers or
other credit card offers (for loyalty points or otherwise) are provided to the user mobile device.
After a user has purchased an item while in the aisle of the store, the user's smart phone displays
a barcoded electronic receipt that can be scanned by the exit so that the consumer can walk out
with the produce. In some embodiments, a video chat is requested by a customer service
representative and a transaction risk score is lowered based on acceptance of the video chat.

WO 2012/135115                                     PCT/US2012/030560
                          1/25
           -              Co   0
                                   7     _ -!E r><  CNJ
                                     ::,    m                   - '2C
               000
                  uCJ
                  00
   H
   ZD
   0
   IleIf
   C)                            _
   o                  .__
         0   f                   _  _CZ
                   LU
   CuJ

   WO 2012/135115                                                 PCT/US2012/030560
    IN-PERSON ONE-TAP PURCHASING APPARATUSES, METHODS
                                   AND SYSTEMS
                 CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of U.S.
Application No. 13/429,670, filed March 26, 2012, which claims the benefit of U.S.
Provisional Application No. 61/467,890, filed March 25, 2011, and U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/467,969, filed March 25, 2011, the contents of which are hereby
incorporated by reference in their entireties for all purposes.
                                 COPYRIGHT NOTICE
[0002] A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which
is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the
facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as
it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise
reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.
                                    BACKGROUND
[0003]     1. Field of the Art
[0004] This disclosure is generally related to financial and cost/price determination
data processing, and more specifically related to electronically assisted shopping in
brick-and-mortar retail stores.
[0005] 2. Background
[0006] Retail stores are a staple of modern-day living. They carry the necessities
of life, such as food and medicines, as well as luxury items, such as jewelry and
consumer electronics. These physical, 'brick-and-mortar' stores employ a familiar,
well-known layout, with shelves and displays of merchandise occupying the bulk of
the store and cashier areas near the front or exit. Consumers enter freely into the
store, often pick up shopping carts or carryable baskets, and browse items in the
merchandise area where the displays of inventory beckon for purchasing.
                                            1

  WO 2012/135115                                                     PCT/US2012/030560
[0007] Consumer transactions typically require a customer to select items from a
display of store inventory and then produce the items at a checkout location to
initiate a purchase transaction. Item information is typically entered into a point-of
sale (POS) terminal device, or the information is automatically entered by scanning
barcodes on product packages with a barcode scanner. The customer is usually
provided with a number of payment options, such as paying by cash, check, credit
card or debit card. Once a payment is made and approved, the point-of-sale
terminal memorializes the transaction in the merchant's computer system, and a
paper receipt is generated indicating the satisfactory consummation of the
transaction.
[0008]     In some stores, a security guard or other store representative double-checks
the paper receipt with items in consumers' bags as the consumers exits. This can
prevent shoplifting and fraud.
[0009] Strides have been made in speeding transactions, tracking inventory, and
reducing theft. Mechanical cash registers have given way to POS terminals and
electronic registers that are integrated with stores' electronic inventory databases.
Universal Product Code (UPC) barcodes are almost universal on packaging and
allow for scanning by inexpensive scanners. Radio frequency identification (RFID)
tags and/or two-dimensional barcodes, such as QR Code@ (quick-response code)
two-dimensional matrix codes, may streamline product identification even further.
Anti-theft devices, such as disposable anti-theft tags and anti-theft towers or pillars
near store exits that sense them, have become more widespread. All of these
technologies contribute to the smooth, efficient operation of retail stores for store
owners and a more streamlined experience for consumers. However, the customer
experience is far from frictionless. Despite all of the new technologies, customers
often find themselves still having to wait in line with other customers to purchase
items.
[0010] Self-checkout technologies have gained acceptance in some types of stores
such as supermarkets, high volume retailers, and home improvement stores. Yet,
many stores have found that employing self-checkout technologies does not avoid
customers waiting impatiently in lines. Current self-checkout machines are
expensive, they occupy valuable space at the front of the stores, and there can only
be so many of them available at one time. They also invite a bit of theft because
relatively few employees watch multiple customer transactions occurring in parallel.
                                             2

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
[0011] Consumer-friendly smart phones, popularized by the iPhone cellular phone
available from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California, have been suggested as an in
store shopping device through which a consumer may purchase items. Other smart
phones, such as Google (of Mountain View, California) Android TM operating system
based phones, Microsoft (of Redmond, Washington) Windows Mobile operating
system-based phones, and BlackBerry smart phones from Research in Motion Ltd.
of Ontario, Canada, are mobile devices that offer similar functionality.
[0012] Software applications for smart phones and other mobile devices, otherwise
known as "apps," have been developed to be able to photograph a barcode and then
decode the associated number. These barcode-reading apps can queue a database
through a wireless connection to a network in order to look up the product associated
with the barcode.
[0013] U.S. Patent Application No. 2010/0082447 Al, published April 1, 2010 and
assigned to Apple, Inc., discloses that a shopper can scan items in a store with an
iPhone, add them to a shopping list, and then check out electronically. The user's
shopping list can be edited, and multiple items can be purchased at once through the
phone. A user can select a "buy now" button and then be notified for when the item
is ready for pickup.
[0014] There exists a need in the art for a more streamlined shopping experience
for consumers with protection against shoplifting for store owners.
                                    BRIEF SUMMARY
[0015] Generally, the application is related to smart phone-assisted shopping in
brick-and-mortar retail stores with an app networked with the stores' purchase and
anti-theft system. In some cases, a user scans an item with his or her own mobile
phone, purchases it using 'one tap' of his or her finger or other stylus, receives an
electronic receipt on the phone, and the stores' inventory and anti-theft systems are
automatically updated so that the user is allowed to egress the store with the item.
For large purchases, authentication of the user by video chat with a remote customer
service representative can be employed, automatically altering fraud risk scores
based on whether a video chat was accepted and/or conducted. The updated fraud
risk score can be tied to a theft-prevention or management system.
                                            3

  WO 2012/135115                                                     PCT/US2012/030560
[0016] The application is also generally directed to an interception of a credit card
authorization request within a payment network, and a presentation to the user of
different cards that could be used in the user's e-wallet. The different cards can
participate in an automated auction to present competing offers for using their card.
Different products and/or competing merchants with the same or competing products
can be promoted to the user while he or she is focused on his or her mobile phone.
[0017] Some embodiments of the present invention are related to a method of
authentication for mobile device-assisted in-person shopping. The method includes
obtaining, by a mobile device, a product identifier for a potential purchase item based
on an in-person capture of the product identifier at a retail store, determining a price
of the potential purchase item from a database associated with the retail store,
displaying, on the mobile device, an interface element operative to indicate consent
from the consumer to charge an account of the consumer for the potential purchase
item and calculating a first risk score based on the price of the potential purchase
item. The method further includes comparing the first risk score to a threshold value,
sending, from at least one server, a message to the mobile device based on the
comparison of the first risk score to the threshold value, the message having an
interface element operative to initiate a video chat session between the consumer
and a customer service representative, opening a video chat session based on a
selection of the interface element in the message by the consumer, calculating a
second risk score based on the first risk score and the opening of the video chat
session, and receiving, at the mobile device, an electronic receipt for an approved
purchase of the item.
[0018] Some embodiments are related to a system for mobile device-assisted
shopping. The system comprises a mobile device, which itself includes a camera
operable to capture a product identifier from a product package, a network interface
operable to look up a price using the product identifier and receive a message
having an interface element, and a display operable to display an interface element
operable to indicate consent from a consumer to purchase a product identified by the
product identifier and operable to display the interface element in the message
operable to initiate a video chat session between the consumer and a customer
service representative. The system also includes at least one server computer
executing instructions in a computer program, the computer program instructions
including program code for calculating a first risk score based on the price, program
                                             4

  WO 2012/135115                                                      PCT/US2012/030560
code for calculating a second risk score based on the price and an opening of a
video chat session between the consumer and the customer service representative,
and program code for sending an electronic receipt for an approved purchase of the
item.
[0019] Some embodiments are related to a method of automatically checking out
an item using a mobile device in a retail store. The method includes obtaining a
product identifier for a potential purchase item based on an in-person capture of the
product identifier by a mobile device of a consumer at a retail store, identifying a
merchant for the potential purchase item, the merchant associated with the retail
store, determining a price of the potential purchase item based on the merchant,
obtaining, using the mobile device, consent from the consumer to purchase the item,
initiating, using the mobile device, a purchase transaction with the identified
merchant for the potential purchase item based on the consumer's consent,
receiving on the mobile device an electronic receipt having a merchant verifiable
code, the receipt based on the purchase transaction, producing from the mobile
device the verifiable code while the mobile device is proximate to a reader at the
retail store, and receiving an indication that the verifiable code is valid, thereby
allowing the consumer to egress the retail store with the item.
[0020] Some embodiments are related to a method of automatically checking out
an item using a mobile device in a retail store. The method includes obtaining a
product identifier for a potential purchase item based on an in-person capture of the
product identifier by a mobile device of a consumer at a retail store, determining a
price of the potential purchase item, receiving consent from the consumer to charge
an account of the consumer, charging the account of the consumer for a purchase of
the item, receiving an indication that the charging of the account was successful,
generating an electronic receipt having a verifiable code based on the received
indication, sending the electronic receipt to the mobile device of the consumer,
reading the verifiable code from the mobile device, verifying that the verifiable code
read from the mobile device is valid, and sending an indication that the verifiable
code is valid to allow the consumer to egress the retail store with the item.
[0021] Some embodiments are related to a method of presenting competing
purchase account offers during mobile device-assisted shopping purchase
transactions. The method includes receiving an authorization request from an
acquirer for payment from a first payment account of a consumer to a merchant,
                                             5

  WO 2012/135115                                                     PCT/US2012/030560
determining an offer for using a second payment account associated with the
consumer, the determining based on receiving the authorization request, sending the
determined offer to the consumer, receiving a selection of the offer from the
consumer, revising the authorization request to request a payment from the second
payment account of the consumer, and sending the revised authorization request to
an issuer associated with the second payment account.
[0022] Some embodiments are related to a method of presenting competing
product offers during mobile device-assisted shopping purchase transactions. The
method includes receiving a first authorization request from an acquirer for payment
from a payment account of a consumer to a first merchant, receiving a product
identifier for an item to be purchased, determining an offer for a competing item or
second merchant, the determining based on receiving the first authorization request
and the received product identifier or first merchant, sending the offer to the
consumer, receiving a selection of the offer from the consumer, canceling the first
authorization request based on the received selection, generating a second
authorization request for payment from the payment account of the consumer to the
second merchant for the offer, and sending the second authorization request to an
issuer associated with the payment account.
[0023] Some embodiments are related to a method of updating an anti-theft system
at a retail store for mobile device-assisted shopping. The method includes obtaining
a product identifier for a potential purchase item based on an in-person capture of
the product identifier by a mobile device of a consumer at a retail store, determining
a price of the potential purchase item, receiving consent from the consumer to
charge an account of the consumer, charging the account for a purchase of the item,
receiving an indication that the charging of the account was successful, and sending
an indication to an anti-theft system that the item is free to leave the retail store.
[0024] Other embodiments relate to machine-readable tangible storage media and
computer systems that employ or store instructions for the methods described
above.
[0025] A further understanding of the nature and the advantages of the
embodiments disclosed and suggested herein may be realized by reference to the
remaining portions of the specification and the attached drawings.
                                             6

 WO 2012/135115                                                   PCT/US2012/030560
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0026] FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating example aspects of in-person one-tap
purchasing in accordance with an embodiment.
[0027] FIG. 2A illustrates capturing a product identifier in accordance with an
embodiment.
[0028] FIG. 2B illustrates showing product information and promotion information in
accordance with the embodiment of FIG. 2A.
[0029] FIG. 2C illustrates a "buy now" aspect in accordance with the embodiment of
FIG. 2A.
[0030] FIG. 2D illustrates a purchase confirmation in accordance with the
embodiment of FIG. 2A.
[0031] FIG. 2E illustrates an electronic receipt in accordance with an embodiment.
[0032] FIG. 2F illustrates using an electronic receipt to disarm a store anti-theft
system in accordance with an embodiment.
[0033] FIG. 3A illustrates capturing a product identifier in accordance with an
embodiment.
[0034] FIG. 3B illustrates an authorization screen in accordance with an
embodiment.
[0035] FIG. 3C illustrates an altered authorization screen of FIG. 3B.
[0036] FIG. 3D illustrates a message with an interface element operative to initiate
a video chat session between a user and a customer service representative in
accordance with an embodiment.
[0037] FIG. 3E illustrates the opening of a video chat session with a customer
service representative on a smart phone in accordance with an embodiment.
[0038] FIG. 3F illustrates a text challenge on a mobile device in accordance with an
embodiment.
[0039] FIG. 3G illustrates a privacy selection screen on a mobile device in
accordance with an embodiment.
                                           7

  WO 2012/135115                                                   PCT/US2012/030560
[0040] FIG. 3H illustrates an electronic receipt having a merchant verifiable code
displayed on a mobile device in accordance with an embodiment.
[0041]   FIG. 4 is a logic flow diagram illustrating example aspects of conducting a
mobile product purchase transaction in accordance with an embodiment.
[0042] FIG. 5 is a logic flow diagram illustrating example aspects of selecting
purchase options for a mobile product purchase transaction in accordance with an
embodiment.
[0043]   FIG. 6A is a data flow diagram illustrating an example procedure to execute
a card-based transaction resulting in raw card-based transaction data in accordance
with an embodiment.
[0044]   FIG. 6B is a continuation of the data flow diagram of FIG. 6A.
[0045]   FIG. 6C is a data flow diagram illustrating an example procedure to execute
a card-based transaction resulting in raw card-based transaction data in accordance
with the embodiment of FIG. 6A.
[0046]   FIG. 7A is a logic flow diagram illustrating example aspects of executing a
card-based transaction resulting in generation of raw card-based transaction data in
accordance with an embodiment.
[0047]   FIG. 7B is a continuation of the logic flow diagram of FIG. 7A.
[0048]   FIG. 7C is a logic flow diagram illustrating example aspects of executing a
card-based transaction resulting in generation of raw card-based transaction data in
accordance with an embodiment.
[0049] FIG. 7D is a continuation of the logic flow diagram of FIG. 7C.
[0050] FIG. 8 is a block diagram illustrating embodiments of a controller in
accordance with an embodiment.
[0051] FIG. 9 is a flowchart of a process in accordance with an embodiment.
[0052] FIG. 10 is a flowchart of a process in accordance with an embodiment.
[0053] FIG. 11 is a flowchart of a process in accordance with an embodiment.
[0054]   FIG. 12 is a flowchart of a process in accordance with an embodiment.
[0055] FIG. 13 is a flowchart of a process in accordance with an embodiment.
                                             8

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
[0056] FIG. 14 is a flowchart of a process in accordance with an embodiment.
[0057] The figures will now be used to illustrate different embodiments in
accordance with the invention. The figures are specific examples of embodiments
and should not be interpreted as limiting embodiments, but rather exemplary forms
and procedures.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0058] Mobile device-assisted shopping in retail stores can employ apps that
merely require a consumer to scan an item and then tap one figure or stylus in order
to consummate a purchase. Such apps, sometimes referred to herein as In-Person
One-Tap (IPOT) solutions, can minimize transactional friction when purchasing in
retail stores and thereby facilitate more sales.
[0059] Such solutions can come with peril for store owners, however, in that more
theft may occur because consumers do not need to present their goods for scanning
by a cashier in order to leave the store with them. Yet, electronic receipts, advanced
authentication, and networking between consumers' smart phones and the stores
can alleviate this risk. Embodiments are disclosed in the present application to such
methods, systems, and devices that will make the technical solutions apparent to
one skilled in the art.
[0060] A user can download an app to his or her personal mobile device that can
function as a product and price identifier, purchasing e-wallet, and automated
proximity token for exiting a store with the item. For higher cost items, a customer
service representative can request a video chat with the customer in order to look
them in the eye and lower the risk of a possibly problematic transaction. Background
servers can display competing offers to the user-during a credit card transaction
so that the user can ultimately decide the best deal.
[0061] Technical advantages of the embodiments are many. Pushing out an app to
retail store customers' smart phones that allows the customers to scan and purchase
their own items reduces the need for cash registers, point of sale devices, and other
capital equipment in the store, which in turn reduces wear and tear on existing
devices and may allow less equipment to be needed at any one time. It also
reduces the number of man-machine interfaces that people touch, lowering the
transmission of surface-borne diseases among those who shop and are employed in
                                             9

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
the stores. Besides needing less capital equipment, fewer cashiers, courtesy, price
check, and other employees are needed.
[0062] Consumers use their own cell phones with which they are familiar and
comfortable. Checkout and other interaction times are a function of the speed of
their smart phones; therefore, consumers with faster cell phones receive slightly
faster service. Many consumers update their cell phones every two years, and so
the speed of checkout may increase every couple of years for many.
[0063] Connecting a machine-readable electronic receipt with a merchant-verifiable
code, such as a barcode, can automate egress from a store. Instead of an
employee checking off a consumer's paper receipt as he or she exits a store, a
barcode allows the system to be automated. As a user's phone is passed near a
camera at an exit to the store, a reader reads the barcode, determines that it is valid,
checks it against items in the store's inventory, and automatically 'safes' an anti-theft
alarm system so that sensing an anti-theft tag in the user's bag does not trip the
alarm. The interaction between the smart phone, payment authorization
infrastructure, store inventory, and anti-theft system allows less capital equipment
and other resources to be needed by the store while preventing theft.
[0064] FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating example aspects of in-person one-tap
purchasing. In some implementations, a user, e.g., 101, may desire to purchase
products, services and/or other offerings ("products") in-person. The user may enter
entrance 102, into a building storefront, warehouse, show venue, outdoor market,
lumberyard, or other retail store to purchase a product. The user inspects products
available at the store in aisle 103 in person and may desire to learn more about a
product. The user scans product 105 using client device 104a.
[0065] For example, the user may capture information about a product identification
(e.g., barcode, RFID, QR code) associated with the product. The user may obtain
an image, a video, a live stream, etc. of the product identification associated with the
product. Client device 104a provides the obtained information to a server. The
client device may send a server a (Secure) HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP(S))
POST/GET message, electronic mail message, Short Messaging Service (SMS)
message, HTTP/Real Time Streaming Protocol (RTSP) video stream, etc., including
the captured information about the product identification associated with the product.
                                            10

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
[0066]    In some implementations, the server may utilize the capture information
about the product identification associated with the product to identify the product
that the user desires to learn about. For example, the server may parse the
message provided by the client device and extract the product identification
information based on the parsing. The server may access a database and search
for product offers to provide to the user based on the product identification
information extracted from the message from the client device. For example, the
server may utilize a Hypertext Preprocessor (PHP) script to issue Structured Query
Language (SQL) commands to query a relational database for product offers to
provide the user. The database may have stored information on various merchants,
merchant locations, offers, discounts, coupons, advertisements, and/or the like,
which may be provided to the user. In some implementations, the server may utilize
the location of the client device (e.g., using Global Position System (GPS) location
data), as well as the product identification information to query the database for
product offers to provide the user.
[0067]    In some implementations, the server may provide the results obtained from
the database to client device 104b. For example, the client device may be executing
an application module ("app") via which the client device may communicate with the
server. The client device may display the obtained results from the server via the
app to the user.
[0068]    In some implementations, the app may provide the user an option to buy the
product on the spot by performing a single action (e.g., tap, swipe touchscreen of a
mobile device, press a key on a keyboard, perform a single mouse click).
[0069]    In some implementations, the app may provide the user various alternate
options. For example, the app may provide the user with alternate merchants where
the user may obtain the product and/or similar products, alternate products that may
be comparable to the product, competitive pricing information between merchants,
discounts, coupons, and/or other offers for the user, etc. In some implementations,
the app may indicate that the user may earn rewards points if the user purchases the
product at another merchant. In some implementations, the app may indicate that it
may be required to use fewer rewards points to pay for the purchase transaction if
the user purchases the product at another merchant, because the other merchant
may have a better relationship with the rewards points provider. In some
implementations, the app may indicate that the user may earn more rewards points if
                                             11

  WO 2012/135115                                                        PCT/US2012/030560
the uses a specific (or alternative) card to pay for the purchase transaction. In some
implementations, the app may indicate that the user may obtain a greater amount of
cash back if the user purchases the card at an alternate merchant and/or using an
alternate card. In various implementations, offers to the user including and similar to
those described herein may originate from various entities and/or system
components, including but not limited to: merchants, pay networks, card issuers,
acquirers, and/or the like.
[0070]     In some implementations, user 101 may purchase the product on the spot
from the current merchant and/or other merchant(s) by performing the single action
on the user device (e.g., one tap of a touchscreen of the user device). In such
implementations, the server may initiate a card-based purchase transaction using a
card (e.g., credit card, debit card, prepaid card, etc.) associated with the client device
and/or user. For example, the app may allow the user to select a card from a virtual
electronic wallet ("e-wallet" or "ewallet") of the user to utilize for the purchase
transaction.
[0071]     In some implementations, the server may be able to arbitrage credit card
payment networks in that a merchant, card issuer, acquirer, pay network, and/or the
like entities and/or components may switch how payments for the user are
processed because of transaction cost considerations.
[0072]     In some implementations, the server may initiate the card-based purchase
transaction and generate a purchase confirmation receipt for the user. The server
provides the purchase confirmation receipt to client device 108b. In some
implementations, the user may desire to immediately exit the store after purchasing
a product via the app.
[0073]     In such implementations, the user may be required to provide proof of
purchase of the product at the exit of the store. The user may utilize the purchase
confirmation receipt obtained from the server via the app on the client device to
provide proof of product purchase 108a. The receipt includes purchase identifier
108c. Purchase identifier 108c includes a barcode, but other purchase identifiers
can include a QR code, an image of a receipt, a video of a purchase action, etc. The
user may utilize such confirmations of the purchase as proof at the exit of the store.
Accordingly, in some implementations, the user may skip a checkout line at the store
altogether and gain efficiency in the shopping experience.
                                              12

  WO 2012/135115                                                     PCT/US2012/030560
[0074] FIGS. 2A-2D illustrate capturing a product identifier and purchasing. In
some implementations, a server may transform product identification information
about a product via various components into consumer-friendly product offer
information and enable one-tap product purchases. For example, the server obtains
information 215, about product 210 via product identifier 205 that was scanned by
mobile device 201. The server may transform this product identifier information into
detailed product information 220, such as price and product description, as well as
coupons and promotions 225, advertisements, etc. The server may provide pricing
information 230 on the product and/or related and/or similar products and may
provide the user an option to purchase the product on the spot and/or at competing
merchants. In some implementations, the system may provide a proof of purchase
for the user, such as through button 235 to view such information, so that the user
can provide a proof of purchase to a store employee or scanner should it become
necessary.
[0075] Mobile device 201 may be owned personally by the user, given out
temporarily to customers by the store, or otherwise be available to consumers. The
device can be a smart phone, such as an Phone or Android-based cellular phone.
[0076] FIG. 2E illustrates the an electronic receipt to automatically disarm a store
anti-theft system. Mobile device 201, with rear-facing camera 253 and network
interface 254, has display 255. The display shows electronic receipt 252 with
confirmation barcode 251. Confirmation barcode 251 holds a code that corresponds
to the receipt. Additionally, digital certificate 256 corresponds to the receipt. The
electronic receipt associates the product identifier, the store, and the purchase
transaction.
[0077] FIG. 2F illustrates an integrated anti-theft system/device. Scanner reader
260 optically reads barcode 251 shown on display 255 of mobile device 201. The
numerical code from the barcode is sent from camera 260 to server 265, which is
connected with the rest of the anti-theft system. Server 265 queries database 266
with the numerical code to see if there is a match.
[0078]    In some embodiments, a wireless signal, such as one corresponding to the
Wi-Fi or Bluetooth* specification, can be sent from the mobile device, the wireless
signal including the verifiable code. The wireless signal can be read by an
appropriate reader.
                                               13

  WO 2012/135115                                                      PCT/US2012/030560
[0079]     If there is a match in database 266, then a notation is made to disarm the
anti-theft system for a product with an anti-theft tag that is about to exit the store.
For example, a timestamp is saved in the database for an entry corresponding the
product. When anti-theft tower 261 detects anti-theft tag 257 on item 210, a signal is
sent through interface 264 to server 265. Server 265 queries database 266 for a
product with the matching tag.
[0080]     In a nominal situation, the product is found in the same entry in database
266 as the numerical code for the barcode that was just found. Based on a match
existing, the server indicates that the item is free to leave the retail store. Based on
the indication, audio siren 263 and visual alarm 262 are disarmed, and a customer
carrying product 210 is allowed to egress the store unimpeded.
[0081]     If there is no match in database 266 for the barcode, then the barcode is
probably invalid. The user holding the mobile device in front of the scanner may be
asked to scan another barcode.
[0082]     If there is no match in database 266 for anti-theft tag 257 detected by anti
theft pillar 261, then alarms 262 and 263 blare or otherwise activate, drawing
attention to the shopper who is attempting to exit the store. Because many current
anti-theft systems activate simply when an anti-theft tag is detected, it can be said
that server 265 "disarms" the anti-theft system if a match is found.
[0083] Database 266, which may be part of an inventory system, can be updated
based on the detection by the anti-theft device of the anti-theft tag. After a consumer
scans an item and purchases it on his or her own mobile device in the store, the
database may place a "sold but still in store" marker in a database entry
corresponding to the item. After the consumer exits through the anti-theft pillars and
the item's anti-theft tag is detected, the database may place a "sold and exited"
marker in the database entry. In alternate embodiments in which items are fungible
with each other and not individually tracked (e.g., by serial number), a quantity in a
database can be updated to reflect the number of items that are "sold but still in
store" and "sold and exited."
[0084] A technical advantage of the distinction between the "sold but still in store"
and "sold and delivered" is that an item can be tracked with greater precision. If an
item is missing, the store can better reconcile whether an item was purchased and
simply left behind in the store. Additionally, the timestamp for when an item was
                                             14

  WO 2012/135115                                                      PCT/US2012/030560
purchased can be compared with the time at which the product exits the store,
producing a metric on how long a customer browsed a store before leaving with his
or her purchases. Comparing the timestamps of different items bought at different
times within the store can give a metric on what customers initially came into the
store to purchase-presumably their first item bought-and what subsequently
caught their eyes or was an impulse purchase.
[0085] FIGS. 3A-3D illustrate various interfaces on a smart phone in accordance
with an embodiment. In some implementations, the app may be configured to
recognize product identifiers (e.g., barcodes, QR codes). In some implementations,
the user may be required to sign in to the app to enable its features. Once the app is
enabled, a camera on the smart phone may provide in-person one tap purchasing
features for the user. For example, the client device may have a camera via which
the app may acquire images 303, video data, streaming live video, and/or the like.
The app may be configured to analyze the incoming data and perform search 301
through query interface 302 for product identifier 304. In some implementations, the
app may overlay cross-hairs, a target box, and/or like alignment reference markers
305, so that a user may align the product identifier using the reference markers so
facilitate product identifier recognition and interpretation. In some implementations,
the app may include interface element 306 in order to allow the user to switch back
and forth between the product identification mode and the product offer interface
display screens so that a user may accurately study the deals available to the user
before capturing a product identifier. In some implementations, the app may provide
the user with the ability to view prior product identifier captures, such as through soft
"History" button 307, so that the user may be able to better decide which product
identifier the user desires to capture. In some implementations, the user may desire
to cancel product purchasing; the app may provide the user with user interface
element 308 to cancel the product identifier recognition procedure and return to the
prior interface screen that the user was utilizing. In some implementations, the user
may be provided with information about products, user settings, merchants, offers,
etc. in list form, such as through soft "Lists" button 309 so that the user may better
understand the user's purchasing options. Various other features may be provided
for in the app, such as through a "More" soft button 310.
[0086]     In some implementations, the app executing on the client device of the user
may include an app interface providing various features for the user. In some
                                              15

  WO 2012/135115                                                     PCT/US2012/030560
implementations, the app may include an indication of the location (e.g., name of the
merchant store 311 (see FIG. 3C), geographical location/coordinate, information
about the aisle within the merchant store, etc.) of the user. The app may provide an
indication of a pay amount due 312 for the purchase of the product. In some
implementations, the app may provide various options for the user to pay the amount
for purchasing the product(s). For example, the app may utilize the GPS coordinates
to determine the merchant store within which the user is present and direct the user
to a website of the merchant.
[0087] The authorization interface in FIG. 3C requires only one tap from a user in
order to initiate the payment transaction with the default payment account, Visa.
One tap-or slide, push, or other selection-allows a user to efficiently purchase the
item through a payment account and move on to the next item or leave the store.
[0088]    In the prior art, a consumer would be expected to purchase multiple items
from a store all at once. There would be only one credit card or other monetary
transaction. In an embodiment, each item can be purchased within a store
individually, resulting in multiple credit card transactions. Although this may cost
more in the way of transaction fees, it can be worthwhile to a store and to a customer
for the convenience, goodwill, and extra data on the order of purchases that the
store obtains.
[0089]    In some implementations, the system may provide an application
programming interface (API) for participating merchants directly to facilitate
transaction processing. In some implementations, a merchant-branded application is
developed with the described functionality, which may directly connect the user into
the merchant's transaction processing system. For example, the user may choose
from a number of cards (e.g., credit cards, debit cards, prepaid cards) from various
card providers, e.g., 313. In some implementations, the app may provide the user
the option to pay the purchase amount using funds included in a bank account of the
user, e.g., a checking, savings, money market, current account, in account section
314. In some implementations, the user may have set default options for which card,
bank account, etc. to use for the purchase transactions via the app. In some
implementations, such setting of default options may allow the user to initiate the
purchase transaction via a single click, tap, swipe, and/or other remedial user input
action. Such an interface can be armed by interface element 315. In some
implementations, when the user utilizes such an option, the app may utilize the
                                              16

  WO 2012/135115                                                      PCT/US2012/030560
default settings of the user to initiate the purchase transaction. In some
implementations, the app may allow the user to utilize other accounts (e.g.,
GoogleTM Checkout, PaypalTM account) to pay for the purchase transaction, for
example, in other account section 316. In some implementations, the app may allow
the user to utilize rewards points, airline miles, hotel points, electronic coupons,
printed coupons (e.g., by capturing the printed coupons similar to the product
identifier) etc., to pay for the purchase transaction, such as in sections 317 and 318
of the interface. In some implementations, the app may provide an option to provide
express authorization before initiating the purchase transaction through interface
element 319. By pressing interface element 319, a consumer indicates consent to
purchase the appropriate product(s). In some implementations, the app may provide
an indication on the progress of the transaction after the user has selected an option
to initiate the purchase transaction, such as progress indicator 320. In some
implementations, the app may provide the user with historical information on the
user's prior purchases via the app, such as through button 321. In some
implementations, the app may provide the user with an option to share information
about the purchase (e.g., via email, SMS, wall posting on Facebook*, tweet on
Twitter T M , etc.) with other users, such as through interface element 322. In some
implementations the app may provide the user an option to display the product
identification information captured by the client device (e.g., in order to show a
customer service representative at the exit of a store the product information), such
as displayed UPC barcode 324. In some implementations, the user, app, client
device and or system may encounter an error in the processing or need further
verification. In such scenarios, the user may be able to chat with a customer service
representative, such as through VerifyChat button 323, in order to resolve the
difficulties in the purchase transaction procedure.
[0090]     In some implementations, the "VerifyChat" feature may be utilized for fraud
prevention. For example, a server may detect an unusual and/or suspicious
transaction. A transaction may have an associated risk score that is calculated given
numerous input parameters, such as a price of the potential purchase items. If the
risk score is above (or below) a threshold value, then a VerifyChat video conference
may be required to continue.
[0091] A "risk score" can include a numerical probability of an event occurring. For
example, a risk score of 0.191 can indicate that there is a 0.191 probability that a
                                               17

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
potential transaction is fraudulent. A risk score can also include an ordinal
determination of the most likely events to occur. For example, a risk score of 'A' can
be selected from a set {A, B, C} in which 'A' is more likely to occur than 'B,' and 'B' is
more likely to occur than 'C.' A risk score can include other scoring mechanisms for
risks or as otherwise known in the art.
[0092] A "threshold value" can include a cardinal or ordinal value that delineates
values that are above and below the threshold value. For example, a threshold
value of 0.190 may indicate a predetermined probability that above which a
transaction should be halted because a risk is too great.
[0093] A "video chat session" includes a two-way, interactive live communication
stream in which images from at least one camera on one device are sent for display
to an opposite end of the communication path in order to be displayed. A video chat
session can include video that is transmitted only in one direction but with live
communication, such as audio voice or text messaging, capable of being sent in both
directions.
[0094] FIG. 3D shows an interface in which a user can initiate the video chat
session by pressing interface element 350 or decline by pressing cancel button 329.
A live stream video 328b of the awaiting customer service representative is shown in
window 328b. If the video chat is declined by pressing button 329, the user may
need to bring his or her purchase to an associate located in the store, such as a
cashier, in order to complete the purchase transaction. If accepted, the video chat
conference can let a customer service associate, located remotely in a call center,
simply verify that the user is not an automated "bot." Having a real-time, interactive
video chat can be an extremely quick and effective means to verify that a user is not
an automated bot. Additionally, the customer service representative can ask
questions of the user and verify the authenticity of the originator of the purchase
transaction. In various implementations, the server may send electronic mail
message, text (SMS) messages, Facebook* messages, TwitterTM tweets, text chat,
voice chat, video chat (e.g., Apple FaceTime), and/or the like as a message with the
interface element to initiate the video chat session between the user and the
customer service representative.
[0095] A live video 328a of the user may be shown on the display of the mobile
device so that the user can see what the agent sees. In video chat session 326,
                                            18

  WO 2012/135115                                                     PCT/US2012/030560
customer service representative, shown in window 328b, may manually determine
the authenticity of the user using the video of the user. In some implementations,
the server may utilize face, biometric and/or like recognition (e.g., using pattern
classification techniques) to determine the identity of the user, e.g., 328a. In some
implementations, the app may provide reference marker 327 (e.g., cross-hairs, target
box), so that the user may focus the video to facilitate an automated recognition of
the user.
[0096] Simply opening the video chat session may demonstrate enough of a
commitment to the transaction to lower a fraud risk score. When "Video Chat" button
350 is pressed, a message is sent from the mobile device to a cellular telephone
station, where the message is forwarded through the Internet to the merchant's web
server. The web server opens a new port of communication between a video
conferencing server and the mobile device so that live video of the customer service
representative and the user of the mobile device can be exchanged with one
another. A portion of the message indicates that the video chat session was
accepted, and that portion is forwarded to a fraud determination engine. The fact
that a video chat was accepted by the recipient on the phone can be used to adjust
the initial fraud score so that a second fraud risk score is calculated.
[0097]     It is possible that a customer service representative does not have time to
actually go through with the meeting, so the second fraud risk score can be used to
evaluate whether to go forward with the transaction. If the initial fraud risk score is
on the margin, then the re-calculated risk score, using the fact that a video chat
session was accepted, may show that the risk of the transaction to the merchant is
now within acceptable limits. If so, the purchase may be concluded and an
electronic receipt for the transaction automatically sent to the mobile device so that
its handler can walk out of the store with the product.
[0098]     In some implementations, an authentic consumer may not have initiated the
transaction. In such implementations, the user may cancel the challenge using
cancel button 329. The server may then cancel the transaction, and/or initiate fraud
investigation procedures on behalf of the user.
[0099]     In some implementations, the user may select to conduct the transaction
using a one-time anonymized credit card number through selection 315b (see FIG.
3B) in an authorization interface as shown. In such implementations, the app may
                                              19

  WO 2012/135115                                                     PCT/US2012/030560
automatically set the user profile settings such that the any personal identifying
information of the user will not be provided to the merchant and/or other entities. In
one embodiment, the user may be required to enter a user name and password to
enable the one-time anonymization feature.
[0100] The app in the mobile device may be configured such that the authorization
interface may be automatically initiated, without intervening human intervention,
upon scanning or otherwise capturing the product identifier.
[0101]     In some implementations, a server may utilize text challenge procedure 330
(see FIG. 3F) to verify the authenticity of the user. For example, the server may
communicate with the user via text chat, SMS messages, electronic mail, Facebook*
messages, TwitterTM tweets, and/or the like. The server may pose challenge
question 332 to the user. The app may provide a user input interface element(s)
(e.g., virtual keyboard 333) to answer the challenge question posed. In some
implementations, the challenge question may randomly selected by the server
automatically; in some implementations, a customer service representative may
manually communicate with the user.
[0102]     In some implementations, a genuine user may not have initiated the
transaction, e.g., the transaction is fraudulent. In such implementations, the user
may cancel, e.g., 331, the text challenge. The server may then cancel the
transaction and/or initiate fraud investigation procedures on behalf of the user.
[0103]     In some implementations, the user may be able to view and/or modify the
user profile and/or settings of the user, e.g., by activating user interface element 309
(see FIG. 3A). In the interface screen of FIG. 3G, a user may be able to view/modify
a user name (e.g., 335a-b), account number (e.g., 336a-b), user security access
code (e.g., 337a-b), user personal identification number (PIN) (e.g., 338a-b), user
address (e.g., 339a-b), social security number associated with the user (e.g., 340a
b), current device GPS location (e.g., 341a-b), user account of the merchant in
whose store the user currently is (e.g., 342a-b), the user's rewards accounts (e.g.,
343a-b), and/or the like. In some implementations, the user may be able to select
which of the data fields and their associated values or defaults should be transmitted
to facilitate the purchase transaction. In the exemplary embodiment of FIG. 3G, the
user has selected the name 335a, account number 336a, security code 337a,
merchant account ID 342a and rewards account ID 343a as the fields to be sent as
                                             20

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
part of the notification to process the purchase transaction. In some
implementations, the user may toggle the fields and/or data values that are sent as
part of the notification to process the purchase transactions. A user can specify a
default payment account that he or she would like to use for every purchase with his
or her e-wallet.
[0104]    In some implementations, the app may provide multiple screens of data
fields and/or associated values stored for the user to select as part of the purchase
order transmission. In some implementations, the app may provide the server with
the GPS location of the user. Based on the GPS location of the user, the IPOT may
determine the context of the user (e.g., whether the user is in a store, doctor's office,
hospital, postal service office, etc.). Based on the context, the user app may present
the appropriate fields to the user, from which the user may select fields and/or field
values to send as part of the purchase order transmission
[0105] For example, a user may go to doctor's office and desire to pay the co-pay
for doctor's appointment. In addition to basic transactional information such as
account number and name, the app may provide the user the ability to select to
transfer medical records, health information, which may be provided to the medical
provider, insurance company, as well as the transaction processor to reconcile
payments between the parties. In some implementations, the records may be sent
in a Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)-compliant data
format and encrypted, and only the recipients who are authorized to view such
records may have appropriate decryption keys to decrypt and view the private user
information.
[0106] FIG. 3H illustrates an electronic receipt having a merchant verifiable code
displayed on a mobile device. Electronic receipt 352 includes verifiable code 351,
which is a barcode. At an exit to the store, the electronic receipt with verifiable code
351 can be shown on the display and passed near a camera or other reader that can
read the barcode. A server can verify that the barcode is valid (e.g., that a purchase
was made in the last 2, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 or more hours and that the electronic
receipt associated with the barcode properly accounts for the purchase). The server
can send an indication in a message that the verifiable code is valid to a theft
prevention device. The indication can disarm an otherwise active alarm so that the
consumer can exit the store with the product unimpeded. The indication can also
                                            21

  WO 2012/135115                                                       PCT/US2012/030560
indicate to a guard, open a gate, or otherwise facilitate the consumer's exit from the
store.
[0107]    In an alternative embodiment, the mobile device itself may have the
capability to disarm anti-theft tags, or the user may be directed to a kiosk that can
disarm the anti-theft tag. Based on checking the valid purchase, a signal can be
sent to the device or kiosk to disarm the anti-theft tag.
[0108] An "electronic receipt" includes any receipt that is storable in volatile or non
volatile digital memory or otherwise on an electronic device, or as otherwise known
in the art. An electronic receipt may or may not include machine-readable images,
such as a barcode.
[0109] FIG. 4 shows a logic flow diagram illustrating example aspects of conducting
a mobile product purchase transaction in some embodiments. In some
implementations, the system may capture a product identifier, e.g., 401. The system
may obtain product information about the product, and display the product
information for the user. The system may provide the user an option to purchase the
product based on one or more of the offers the system provides to the user. If the
user chooses to purchase the product, e.g., 410, the system may transmit purchase
instructions, e.g., 420, to other component and/or entities (e.g., merchant, card
issuer, merchant's acquirer, and/or the like). In some implementations, the system
may obtain (an updated, e.g., if the user is modifying a prior purchase) purchase
confirmation receipt, e.g., 425, and may display the obtained purchase confirmation
receipt for the user.
[0110] FIG. 5 shows a logic flow diagram illustrating example aspects of selecting
purchase options for a mobile product purchase transaction. In some
implementations, the system may obtain a product identifier from a client device, as
well as client and/or user identifiers, e.g., 501. The system may query a product
records database for product information based on the product identifier and/or the
client identifier and/or the user identifier, e.g., 505. If the system does not find a
match for the product in the database, e.g., 510, option "No," the system may
generate and return an error message and initiate error handling procedures, e.g.,
515. If the system finds a match, e.g., 510, option "Yes," for the product in the
product records database, the system may obtain product information corresponding
to the product from the database, e.g., 520. The system may determine, based on
                                              22

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
the information obtained from the database, whether any special promotions are
available for the product, e.g., 525. If there are no special promotions available, e.g.,
525, option "No," the system may provide the bare product information for the user,
e.g., 530. If there are special promotions available, e.g., 525, option "Yes," the
system may provide the product information as well as the promotional information
for the user, e.g., 535. In some implementations, the system may obtain a purchase
request from the user. If the system obtains a purchase request from the user, e.g.,
540, option "Yes," the system may provide a purchase indication to a merchant,
issuing bank, acquirer bank and/or other entities for processing of the purchase
transaction. The system may obtain a notification from the entities to which the
system provided the purchase indication regarding the purchase. If the purchase is
not approved, e.g., 555, option "No," the system may initiate error handling
procedures, e.g., 560. If the purchase is approved, e.g., 555, option "Yes," the
system may obtain the purchase confirmation information, e.g., 565, generate a
purchase confirmation receipt, e.g., 570, and provide the purchase confirmation
receipt for the user.
[0111] FIGS. 6A-6C are data flow diagrams illustrating an example procedure to
execute a card-based transaction resulting in raw card-based transaction data. In
some implementations, a user, e.g., 601, may desire to purchase a product, service,
offering, and/or the like ("product"), from a merchant. The user may communicate
with a merchant server, e.g., 603, via a client such as, but not limited to: a personal
computer, mobile device, television, point-of-sale terminal, kiosk, ATM, and/or the
like (e.g., 602). For example, the user may provide user input, e.g., purchase input
611, into the client indicating the user's desire to purchase the product. In various
implementations, the user input may include, but not be limited to: keyboard entry,
card swipe, activating a radio frequency identification (RFID) or near field
communication (NFC) enabled hardware device (e.g., electronic card having multiple
accounts, smartphone, tablet), mouse clicks, depressing buttons on a joystick/game
console, voice commands, single/multi-touch gestures on a touch-sensitive interface,
touching user interface elements on a touch-sensitive display, and/or the like. For
example, the user may direct a browser application executing on the client device to
a website of the merchant, and may select a product from the website via clicking on
a hyperlink presented to the user via the website.
                                             23

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
[0112] As another example, the client may obtain track 1 data from the user's card
(e.g., credit card, debit card, prepaid card, charge card), such as the example track 1
data provided below:
%B123456789012345APUBLIC/J.Q.A9901 1200000000000000**901******?*
(wherein '123456789012345' is the card number of 'J.Q. Public' and has a CVV
number of 901. '990112' is a service code, and *** represents decimal digits which
change randomly each time the card is used.)
[0113]    In some implementations, the client may generate a purchase order
message, e.g., 612, and provide, e.g., 613, the generated purchase order message
to the merchant server. For example, a browser application executing on the client
may provide, on behalf of the user, a (Secure) Hypertext Transfer Protocol
("HTTP(S)") GET message including the product order details for the merchant
server in the form of data formatted according to the eXtensible Markup Language
("XM L").
[0114]    In some implementations, the merchant server may obtain the purchase
order message from the client and may parse the purchase order message to extract
details of the purchase order from the user. The merchant server may generate a
card query request, e.g., 614 to determine whether the transaction can be
processed. For example, the merchant server may attempt to determine whether the
user has sufficient funds to pay for the purchase in a card account provided with the
purchase order. The merchant server may provide the generated card query
request, e.g., 615, to an acquirer server, e.g., 604. For example, the acquirer server
may be a server of an acquirer financial institution ("acquirer") maintaining an
account of the merchant. For example, the proceeds of transactions processed by
the merchant may be deposited into an account maintained by the acquirer. In some
implementations, the card query request may include details such as, but not limited
to: the costs to the user involved in the transaction, card account details of the user,
user billing and/or shipping information, and/or the like. For example, the merchant
server may provide a HTTP(S) POST message including an XML-formatted card
query request.
                                             24

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
[0115]    In some implementations, the acquirer server may generate a card
authorization request, e.g., 616, using the obtained card query request, and provide
the card authorization request, e.g., 617, to a pay network server, e.g., 605. For
example, the acquirer server may redirect a HTTP(S) POST message from the
merchant server to the pay network server.
[0116] At this point, pay network server may determine an offer for using a different
payment account associated with the consumer than that specified in card
authorization request 617. For example, an automated auction may be held
between different card issuers of cards in the user's e-wallet. The auction may pick
the top 1, 2, 3, or more card issuers for deals that they may wish to present to the
user. Alternatively, pay network server may simply look up which card issuers have
outstanding deals/offers that could apply to the purchase. For example, if the user is
about to purchase flowers (as determined through the product identifier), then a
particular card issuer who offers cash back or extra loyalty points for such purchases
may be selected.
[0117] The offer can then be sent to the consumer through the app, via an SMS
message, etc. If the consumer selects the offer, then the payment network server
may reformat, repackage, construct-anew, or otherwise revise the authorization
request and send it to the 'winning' issuer.
[0118]    In another embodiment competing offers and/or other merchants can
participate in an automated auction for the user's business. An offer for a competing
item to the item identified by the product identifier, or a second merchant selling the
same item or the competing item, is sent to user 601 via the app, SMS text
message, etc. If the offer is selected by the user, then pay network server 605
cancels the original authorization message and generates a new authorization
message for a purchase of the new item. Because card authorization request 617
may not have the product information within it, the product to be purchased may be
sent separately in a different message, and the message and card authorization
request 617 can be matched.
[0119]    In some implementations, the pay network server may obtain the card
authorization request from the acquirer server and may parse the card authorization
request to extract details of the request. Using the extracted fields and field values,
the pay network server may generate a query, e.g., 618, for an issuer server
                                            25

  WO 2012/135115                                                     PCT/US2012/030560
corresponding to the user's card account. For example, the user's card account, the
details of which the user may have provided via the client-generated purchase order
message, may be linked to an issuer financial institution ("issuer"), such as a banking
institution, which issued the card account for the user. An issuer server, e.g., 606, of
the issuer may maintain details of the user's card account. In some
implementations, a database, e.g., pay network database 607, may store details of
the issuer servers and card account numbers associated with the issuer servers.
For example, the database may be a relational database responsive to Structured
Query Language ("SQL") commands. The pay network server may execute a
hypertext preprocessor ("PHP") script including SQL commands to query the
database for details of the issuer server.
[0120]     In response to obtaining the issuer server query, e.g., 619, the pay network
database may provide, e.g., 620, the requested issuer server data to the pay
network server. In some implementations, the pay network server may utilize the
issuer server data to generate a forwarding card authorization request, e.g., 621, to
redirect the card authorization request from the acquirer server to the issuer server.
The pay network server may provide the card authorization request, e.g., 622, to the
issuer server. In some implementations, the issuer server, e.g., 606, may parse the
card authorization request and, based on the request details, may query a database,
e.g., user profile database 608, for data of the user's card account. For example, the
issuer server may issue PHP/SQL commands.
[0121]     In some implementations, on obtaining the user data, e.g., 625, the issuer
server may determine whether the user can pay for the transaction using funds
available in the account, e.g., 626. For example, the issuer server may determine
whether the user has a sufficient balance remaining in the account, sufficient credit
associated with the account, and/or the like. If the issuer server determines that the
user can pay for the transaction using the funds available in the account, the server
may provide an authorization message, e.g., 627, to the pay network server. For
example, the server may provide a HTTP(S) POST message.
[0122]     In some implementations, the pay network server may obtain the
authorization message and parse the message to extract authorization details. Upon
determining that the user possesses sufficient funds for the transaction, the pay
network server may generate a transaction data record, e.g., 629, from the card
authorization request it received, and store, e.g., 630, the details of the transaction
                                            26

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
and authorization relating to the transaction in a database, e.g., transactions
database 610. For example, the pay network server may issue PHP/SQL
commands.
[0123]    In some implementations, the pay network server may forward the
authorization message, e.g., 631, to the acquirer server, which may in turn forward
the authorization message, e.g., 632, to the merchant server. The merchant may
obtain the authorization message, and determine from it that the user possesses
sufficient funds in the card account to conduct the transaction. The merchant server
may add a record of the transaction for the user to a batch of transaction data
relating to authorized transactions. For example, the merchant may append the XML
data pertaining to the user transaction to an XML data file comprising XML data for
transactions that have been authorized for various users, e.g., 633, and store the
XML data file, e.g., 634, in a database, e.g., merchant database 609.
[0124]    In some implementations, the server may also generate a purchase receipt,
e.g., 633, and provide the purchase receipt to the client. The client may render and
display, e.g., 636, the purchase receipt for the user. For example, the client may
render a webpage, electronic message, text / SMS message, buffer a voicemail, emit
a ring tone, and/or play an audio message, etc., and provide output including, but not
limited to: sounds, music, audio, video, images, tactile feedback, vibration alerts
(e.g., on vibration-capable client devices such as a smartphone etc.), and/or the like.
[0125] With reference to FIG. 6C, in some implementations, the merchant server
may initiate clearance of a batch of authorized transactions. For example, the
merchant server may generate a batch data request, e.g., 637, and provide the
request, e.g., 638, to a database, e.g., merchant database 609. For example, the
merchant server may utilize PHP/SQL commands to query a relational database. In
response to the batch data request, the database may provide the requested batch
data, e.g., 639. The server may generate a batch clearance request, e.g., 640, using
the batch data obtained from the database, and provide, e.g., 641, the batch
clearance request to an acquirer server, e.g., 604. For example, the merchant
server may provide a HTTP(S) POST message including XML-formatted batch data
in the message body for the acquirer server. The acquirer server may generate,
e.g., 642, a batch payment request using the obtained batch clearance request, and
provide the batch payment request to the pay network server, e.g., 643. The pay
network server may parse the batch payment request, and extract the transaction
                                            27

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
data for each transaction stored in the batch payment request, e.g., 644. The pay
network server may store the transaction data, e.g., 645, for each transaction in a
database, e.g., transactions database 610. For each extracted transaction, the pay
network server may query, e.g., 646, a database, e.g., pay network database 607,
for an address of an issuer server. For example, the pay network server may utilize
PHP/SQL commands. The pay network server may generate an individual payment
request, e.g., 648, for each transaction for which it has extracted transaction data,
and provide the individual payment request, e.g., 649, to the issuer server, e.g., 606.
For example, the pay network server may provide a HTTP(S) POST request
[0126]   In some implementations, the issuer server may generate a payment
command, e.g., 650. For example, the issuer server may issue a command to
deduct funds from the user's account (or add a charge to the user's credit card
account). The issuer server may issue a payment command, e.g., 651, to a
database storing the user's account information, e.g., user profile database 608.
The issuer server may provide a funds transfer message, e.g., 652, to the pay
network server, which may forward, e.g., 653, the funds transfer message to the
acquirer server.
[0127]   In some implementations, the acquirer server may parse the funds transfer
message, and correlate the transaction (e.g., using a requestID field) to the
merchant. The acquirer server may then transfer the funds specified in the funds
transfer message to an account of the merchant, e.g., 654.
[0128] FIGS. 7A-7D are logic flow diagrams illustrating example aspects of
executing a card-based transaction resulting in generation of raw card-based
transaction data in some embodiments of the system. In some implementations, a
user may provide user input, e.g., 701, into a client indicating the user's desire to
purchase a product from a merchant. The client may generate a purchase order
message, e.g., 702, and provide the generated purchase order message to the
merchant server. In some implementations, the merchant server may obtain, e.g.,
703, the purchase order message from the client, and may parse the purchase order
message to extract details of the purchase order from the user. Example parsers
that the merchant client may utilize are discussed further below with reference to
FIG. 8. The merchant server may generate a card query request, e.g., 704, to
determine whether the transaction can be processed. For example, the merchant
server may process the transaction only if the user has sufficient funds to pay for the
                                           28

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
purchase in a card account provided with the purchase order. The merchant server
may provide the generated card query request to an acquirer server. The acquirer
server may generate a card authorization request, e.g., 706, using the obtained card
query request, and provide the card authorization request to a pay network server.
In some implementations, the pay network server may obtain the card authorization
request from the acquirer server, and may parse the card authorization request to
extract details of the request. Using the extracted fields and field values, the pay
network server may generate a query, e.g., 708, for an issuer server corresponding
to the user's card account. In response to obtaining the issuer server query the pay
network database may provide, e.g., 709, the requested issuer server data to the
pay network server. In some implementations, the pay network server may utilize
the issuer server data to generate a forwarding card authorization request, e.g., 710,
to redirect the card authorization request from the acquirer server to the issuer
server. The pay network server may provide the card authorization request to the
issuer server. In some implementations, the issuer server may parse, e.g., 711, the
card authorization request, and based on the request details may query a database,
e.g., 712, for data of the user's card account. In response, the database may
provide the requested user data. On obtaining the user data, the issuer server may
determine whether the user can pay for the transaction using funds available in the
account, e.g., 714. For example, the issuer server may determine whether the user
has a sufficient balance remaining in the account, sufficient credit associated with
the account, and/or the like, but comparing the data from the database with the
transaction cost obtained from the card authorization request. If the issuer server
determines that the user can pay for the transaction using the funds available in the
account, the server may provide an authorization message, e.g., 715, to the pay
network server.
[0129]    In some implementations, the pay network server may obtain the
authorization message and parse the message to extract authorization details. Upon
determining that the user possesses sufficient funds for the transaction (e.g., 717,
option "Yes"), the pay network server may extract the transaction card from the
authorization message and/or card authorization request, e.g., 718, and generate a
transaction data record, e.g., 719, using the card transaction details. The pay
network server may provide the transaction data record for storage, e.g., 720, to a
database. In some implementations, the pay network server may forward the
                                           29

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
authorization message, e.g., 721, to the acquirer server, which may in turn forward
the authorization message, e.g., 722, to the merchant server. The merchant may
obtain the authorization message, and parse the authorization message to extract its
contents, e.g., 723. The merchant server may determine whether the user
possesses sufficient funds in the card account to conduct the transaction. If the
merchant server determines that the user possess sufficient funds, e.g., 724, option
"Yes," the merchant server may add the record of the transaction for the user to a
batch of transaction data relating to authorized transactions, e.g., 725. The
merchant server may also generate a purchase receipt, e.g., 727, for the user. If the
merchant server determines that the user does not possess sufficient funds, e.g.,
724, option "No," then the merchant server may generate an "authorization fail"
message, e.g., 728. The merchant server may provide the purchase receipt or the
"authorization fail" message to the client. The client may render and display, e.g.,
729, the purchase receipt for the user.
[0130]   In some implementations, the merchant server may initiate clearance of a
batch of authorized transactions by generating a batch data request, e.g., 730 (on
FIG. 7C), and providing the request to a database. In response to the batch data
request, the database may provide the requested batch data, e.g., 731, to the
merchant server. The server may generate a batch clearance request, e.g., 732,
using the batch data obtained from the database, and provide the batch clearance
request to an acquirer server. The acquirer server may generate, e.g., 734, a batch
payment request using the obtained batch clearance request, and provide the batch
payment request to a pay network server. The pay network server may parse, e.g.,
735, the batch payment request, select a transaction stored within the batch data,
e.g., 736, and extract the transaction data for the transaction stored in the batch
payment request, e.g., 737. The pay network server may generate a transaction
data record, e.g., 738, and store the transaction data, e.g., 739, the transaction in a
database. For the extracted transaction, the pay network server may generate an
issuer server query, e.g., 740, for an address of an issuer server maintaining the
account of the user requesting the transaction. The pay network server may provide
the query to a database. In response, the database may provide the issuer server
data requested by the pay network server, e.g., 741. The pay network server may
generate an individual payment request, e.g., 742, for the transaction for which it has
                                            30

  WO 2012/135115                                                      PCT/US2012/030560
extracted transaction data, and provide the individual payment request to the issuer
server using the issuer server data from the database.
[0131]    In some implementations, the issuer server may obtain the individual
payment request, and parse, e.g., 743, the individual payment request to extract
details of the request. Based on the extracted data, the issuer server may generate
a payment command, e.g., 744. For example, the issuer server may issue a
command to deduct funds from the user's account (or add a charge to the user's
credit card account). The issuer server may issue a payment command, e.g., 745, to
a database storing the user's account information. In response, the database may
update a data record corresponding to the user's account to reflect the debit / charge
made to the user's account. The issuer server may provide a funds transfer
message, e.g., 746, to the pay network server after the payment command has been
executed by the database.
[0132]    In some implementations, the pay network server may check whether there
are additional transactions in the batch that need to be cleared and funded. If there
are additional transactions, e.g., 747, option "Yes," the pay network server may
process each transaction according to the procedure described above. The pay
network server may generate, e.g., 748 (on FIG. 7D), an aggregated funds transfer
message reflecting transfer of all transactions in the batch, and provide, e.g., 749,
the funds transfer message to the acquirer server. The acquirer server may, in
response, transfer the funds specified in the funds transfer message to an account of
the merchant, e.g., 750.
[0133] Controller
[0134] FIG. 8 illustrates inventive aspects of controller 801 in a block diagram. In
this embodiment, controller 801 may serve to aggregate, process, store, search,
serve, identify, instruct, generate, match, and/or facilitate interactions with a
computer through various technologies, and/or other related data.
[0135] Typically, users, which may be people and/or other systems, may engage
information technology systems (e.g., computers) to facilitate information processing.
In turn, computers employ processors to process information; such processors 803
may be referred to as central processing units (CPU). One form of processor is
referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative circuits to pass binary
encoded signals acting as instructions to enable various operations. These
                                            31

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
instructions may be operational and/or data instructions containing and/or
referencing other instructions and data in various processor accessible and operable
areas of memory 829 (e.g., registers, cache memory, random access memory, etc.).
Such communicative instructions may be stored and/or transmitted in batches (e.g.,
batches of instructions) as programs and/or data components to facilitate desired
operations. These stored instruction codes, e.g., programs, may engage the CPU
circuit components and other motherboard and/or system components to perform
desired operations. One type of program is a computer operating system, which,
may be executed by CPU on a computer; the operating system enables and
facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and
resources. Some resources that may be employed in information technology
systems include: input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into
and out of a computer; memory storage into which data may be saved; and
processors by which information may be processed. These information technology
systems may be used to collect data for later retrieval, analysis, and manipulation,
which may be facilitated through a database program. These information technology
systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system
components.
[0136]     In one embodiment, controller 801 may be connected to and/or
communicate with entities such as, but not limited to: one or more users from user
input devices 811; peripheral devices 812; an optional cryptographic processor
device 828; and/or a communications network 813. For example, controller 801 may
be connected to and/or communicate with users operating client device(s) including,
but not limited to, personal computer(s), server(s) and/or various mobile device(s)
including, but not limited to, cellular telephone(s), smartphone(s) (e.g., iPhone*,
Blackberry, Android OS-based phones etc.), tablet computer(s) (e.g., Apple iPadT M
HP SlateTM, Motorola XoomTM, etc.), eBook reader(s) (e.g., Amazon Kindle T M ,
Barnes and Noble's NookTM eReader, etc.), laptop computer(s), notebook(s),
netbook(s), gaming console(s) (e.g., XBOX Live T M , Nintendo DS, Sony PlayStation
Portable, etc.), portable scanner(s) and/or the like.
[0137] Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and
interoperation of clients, servers, and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It
should be noted that the term "server" as used throughout this application refers
generally to a computer, other device, program, or combination thereof that
                                              32

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications
network. Servers serve their information to requesting "clients." The term "client" as
used herein refers generally to a computer, program, other device, user and/or
combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining
and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. A
computer, other device, program, or combination thereof that facilitates, processes
information and requests, and/or furthers the passage of information from a source
user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a "node." Networks are
generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to
destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information
from a source to a destination is commonly called a "router." There are many forms
of networks such as Local Area Networks (LANs), Pico networks, Wide Area
Networks (WANs), Wireless Networks (WLANs), etc. For example, the Internet is
generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby
remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.
[0138] Controller 801 may be based on computer systems that may comprise, but
are not limited to, components such as: a computer systemization 802 connected to
memory 829.
[0139] Computer Systemization
[0140] A computer systemization 802 may comprise a clock 830, central
processing unit ("CPU(s)" and/or "processor(s)" (these terms are used
interchangeable throughout the disclosure unless noted to the contrary)) 803, a
memory 829 (e.g., a read only memory (ROM) 806, a random access memory
(RAM) 805, etc.), and/or an interface bus 807, and most frequently, although not
necessarily, are all interconnected and/or communicating through a system bus 804
on one or more (mother)board(s) 802 having conductive and/or otherwise
transportive circuit pathways through which instructions (e.g., binary encoded
signals) may travel to effect communications, operations, storage, etc. Optionally,
the computer systemization may be connected to an internal power source 886; e.g.,
optionally the power source may be internal. Optionally, a cryptographic processor
826 and/or transceivers (e.g., ICs) 874 may be connected to the system bus. In
another embodiment, the cryptographic processor and/or transceivers may be
connected as either internal and/or external peripheral devices 812 via the interface
bus 1/O. In turn, the transceivers may be connected to antenna(s) 875, thereby
                                             33

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
effectuating wireless transmission and reception of various communication and/or
sensor protocols; for example the antenna(s) may connect to: a Texas Instruments
WiLink WL1 283 transceiver chip (e.g., providing 802.11 n, Bluetooth 3.0, FM, global
positioning system (GPS) (thereby allowing the controller to determine its location));
Broadcom BCM4329FKUBG transceiver chip (e.g., providing 802.11 n, Bluetooth 2.1
+ EDR, FM, etc.); a Broadcom BCM47501UB8 receiver chip (e.g., GPS); an Infineon
Technologies X-Gold 618-PMB9800 (e.g., providing 2G/3G HSDPA/HSUPA
communications); and/or the like. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator
and generates a base signal through the computer systemization's circuit pathways.
The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that will
increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components
interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in
a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the
system. Such transmission and reception of instructions embodying information
throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as
communications. These communicative instructions may further be transmitted,
received, and the cause of return and/or reply communications beyond the instant
computer systemization to: communications networks, input devices, other computer
systemizations, peripheral devices, and/or the like. Of course, any of the above
components may be connected directly to one another, connected to the CPU,
and/or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various
computer systems.
[0141] The CPU comprises at least one high-speed data processor adequate to
execute program components for executing user and/or system-generated requests.
Often, the processors themselves will incorporate various specialized processing
units, such as, but not limited to: integrated system (bus) controllers, memory
management control units, floating point units, and even specialized processing sub
units like graphics processing units, digital signal processing units, and/or the like.
Additionally, processors may include internal fast access addressable memory and
be capable of mapping and addressing memory 529 beyond the processor itself;
internal memory may include, but is not limited to: fast registers, various levels of
cache memory (e.g., level 1, 2, 3, etc.), RAM, etc. The processor may access this
memory through the use of a memory address space that is accessible via
instruction address, which the processor can construct and decode allowing it to
                                            34

  WO 2012/135115                                                     PCT/US2012/030560
access a circuit path to a specific memory address space having a memory state.
The CPU may be a microprocessor such as: AMD's Athlon, Duron and/or Opteron;
ARM's application, embedded and secure processors; IBM and/or Motorola's
DragonBall and PowerPC; IBM's and Sony's Cell processor; Intel's Celeron, Core (2)
Duo, Itanium, Pentium, Xeon, and/or XScale; and/or the like processor(s). The CPU
interacts with memory through instruction passing through conductive and/or
transportive conduits (e.g., (printed) electronic and/or optic circuits) to execute stored
instructions (i.e., program code) according to conventional data processing
techniques. Such instruction passing facilitates communication within the controller
and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a
greater amount speed and/or capacity, distributed processors (e.g., Distributed
architecture), mainframe, multi-core, parallel, and/or super-computer architectures
may similarly be employed. Alternatively, should deployment requirements dictate
greater portability, smaller Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) may be employed.
[0142] Depending on the particular implementation, features of the controller may
be achieved by implementing a microcontroller such as CAST's R8051XC2
microcontroller; Intel's MCS 51 (i.e., 8051 microcontroller); and/or the like. Also, to
implement certain features of the controller, some feature implementations may rely
on embedded components, such as: Application-Specific Integrated Circuit ("ASIC"),
Digital Signal Processing ("DSP"), Field Programmable Gate Array ("FPGA"), and/or
the like embedded technology. For example, any of the controller component
collection (distributed or otherwise) and/or features may be implemented via the
microprocessor and/or via embedded components; e.g., via ASIC, coprocessor,
DSP, FPGA, and/or the like. Alternately, some implementations of the controller
may be implemented with embedded components that are configured and used to
achieve a variety of features or signal processing.
[0143] Depending on the particular implementation, the embedded components
may include software solutions, hardware solutions, and/or some combination of
both hardware/software solutions. For example, controller features discussed herein
may be achieved through implementing FPGAs, which are a semiconductor devices
containing programmable logic components called "logic blocks", and programmable
interconnects, such as the high performance FPGA Virtex series and/or the low cost
Spartan series manufactured by Xilinx. Logic blocks and interconnects can be
programmed by the customer or designer, after the FPGA is manufactured, to
                                             35

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
implement any of the controller's features. A hierarchy of programmable
interconnects allow logic blocks to be interconnected as needed by the controller
system designer/administrator, somewhat like a one-chip programmable breadboard.
An FPGA's logic blocks can be programmed to perform the function of basic logic
gates such as AND, and XOR, or more complex combinational functions such as
decoders or simple mathematical functions. In most FPGAs, the logic blocks also
include memory elements, which may be simple flip-flops or more complete blocks of
memory. In some circumstances, the IPOT may be developed on regular FPGAs
and then migrated into a fixed version that more resembles ASIC implementations.
Alternate or coordinating implementations may migrate controller features to a final
ASIC instead of or in addition to FPGAs. Depending on the implementation all of the
aforementioned embedded components and microprocessors may be considered
the "CPU" and/or "processor" for the controller.
[0144] Power Source
[0145] The power source 886 may be of any standard form for powering small
electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells: alkaline, lithium
hydride, lithium ion, lithium polymer, nickel cadmium, solar cells, and/or the like.
Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar
cells, in one embodiment, the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell
may capture photonic energy. The power cell 886 is connected to at least one of the
interconnected subsequent components of the controller thereby providing an
electric current to all subsequent components. In one example, the power source
886 is connected to the system bus component 804. In an alternative embodiment,
an outside power source 886 is provided through a connection across the I/O 808
interface. For example, a USB and/or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and
power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.
[0146]    Interface Adapters
[0147]    Interface bus(ses) 807 may accept, connect, and/or communicate to a
number of interface adapters, conventionally although not necessarily in the form of
adapter cards, such as but not limited to: input output interfaces (1/O) 808, storage
interfaces 809, network interfaces 810, and/or the like. Optionally, cryptographic
processor interfaces 827 similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The
interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another
                                            36

  WO 2012/135115                                                      PCT/US2012/030560
as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters
are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally
connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures
may be employed, such as, but not limited to: Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP),
Card Bus, (Extended) Industry Standard Architecture ((E)ISA), Micro Channel
Architecture (MCA), NuBus, Peripheral Component Interconnect (Extended)
(PCI(X)), PCI Express, Personal Computer Memory Card International Association
(PCMCIA), and/or the like.
[0148] Storage interfaces 809 may accept, communicate, and/or connect to a
number of storage devices such as, but not limited to: storage devices 814,
removable disc devices, and/or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection
protocols such as, but not limited to: (Ultra) (Serial) Advanced Technology
Attachment (Packet Interface) ((Ultra) (Serial) ATA(PI)), (Enhanced) Integrated Drive
Electronics ((E)IDE), Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 1394,
fiber channel, Small Computer Systems Interface (SCSI), Universal Serial Bus
(USB), and/or the like.
[0149] Network interfaces 810 may accept, communicate, and/or connect to a
communications network 813. Through a communications network 813, the
controller is accessible through remote clients 833b (e.g., computers with web
browsers) by users 833a. Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such
as, but not limited to: direct connect, Ethernet (thick, thin, twisted pair 10/100/1000
Base T, and/or the like), Token Ring, wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a-x,
and/or the like. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed
and/or capacity, distributed network controllers, architectures may similarly be
employed to pool, load balance, and/or otherwise increase the communicative
bandwidth required by the controller. A communications network may be any one
and/or the combination of the following: a direct interconnection; the Internet; a
Local Area Network (LAN); a Metropolitan Area Network (MAN); an Operating
Missions as Nodes on the Internet (OMNI); a secured custom connection; a Wide
Area Network (WAN); a wireless network (e.g., employing protocols such as, but not
limited to a Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), I-mode, and/or the like); and/or the
like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output
interface. Further, multiple network interfaces 810 may be used to engage with
various communications network types 813. For example, multiple network
                                             37

  WO 2012/135115                                                      PCT/US2012/030560
interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast,
multicast, and/or unicast networks.
[0150]    Input Output interfaces (1/O) 808 may accept, communicate, and/or connect
to user input devices 811, peripheral devices 812, cryptographic processor devices
828, and/or the like. 1/O may employ connection protocols such as, but not limited
to: audio: analog, digital, monaural, RCA, stereo, and/or the like; data: Apple
Desktop Bus (ADB), IEEE 1394a-b, serial, universal serial bus (USB); infrared;
joystick; keyboard; midi; optical; PC AT; PS/2; parallel; radio; video interface: Apple
Desktop Connector (ADC), BNC, coaxial, component, composite, digital, Digital
Visual Interface (DVI), high-definition multimedia interface (HDMI), RCA, RF
antennae, S-Video, VGA, and/or the like; wireless transceivers: 802.11 a/b/g/n/x;
Bluetooth; cellular (e.g., code division multiple access (CDMA), high speed packet
access (HSPA(+)), high-speed downlink packet access (HSDPA), global system for
mobile communications (GSM), long term evolution (LTE), WiMax, etc.); and/or the
like. One typical output device may include a video display, which may comprise a
Cathode Ray Tube (CRT) or Liquid Crystal Display (LCD) based monitor with an
interface (e.g., DVI circuitry and cable) that accepts signals from a video interface.
The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization
and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory
frame. Another output device is a television set, which accepts signals from a video
interface. Typically, the video interface provides the composited video information
through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface (e.g., an
RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable; a DVI
connector accepting a DVI display cable, etc.).
[0151] User input devices 811 often are a type of peripheral device and may
include: card readers, dongles, finger print readers, gloves, graphics tablets,
joysticks, keyboards, microphones, mouse (mice), remote controls, retina readers,
touch screens (e.g., capacitive, resistive, etc.), trackballs, trackpads, sensors (e.g.,
accelerometers, ambient light, GPS, gyroscopes, proximity, etc.), styluses, and/or
the like.
[0152] Peripheral devices 812 may be connected and/or communicate to 1/O and/or
other facilities of the like such as network interfaces, storage interfaces, directly to
the interface bus, system bus, the CPU, and/or the like. Peripheral devices may be
external, internal and/or part of the IPOT controller. Peripheral devices may include:
                                            38

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
antenna, audio devices (e.g., line-in, line-out, microphone input, speakers, etc.),
cameras (e.g., still, video, webcam, etc.), dongles (e.g., for copy protection, ensuring
secure transactions with a digital signature, and/or the like), external processors (for
added capabilities; e.g., crypto devices 528), force-feedback devices (e.g., vibrating
motors), network interfaces, printers, scanners, storage devices, transceivers (e.g.,
cellular, GPS, etc.), video devices (e.g., goggles, monitors, etc.), video sources,
visors, and/or the like. Peripheral devices often include types of input devices (e.g.,
cameras).
[0153]    It should be noted that although user input devices and peripheral devices
may be employed, the controller may be embodied as an embedded, dedicated,
and/or monitor-less (i.e., headless) device, wherein access would be provided over a
network interface connection.
[0154] Cryptographic units such as, but not limited to, microcontrollers, processors
826, interfaces 827, and/or devices 828 may be attached, and/or communicate with
the controller. A MC68HC16 microcontroller, manufactured by Motorola Inc., may be
used for and/or within cryptographic units. The MC68HC1 6 microcontroller utilizes a
16-bit multiply-and-accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires
less than one second to perform a 512-bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic
units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents, as well
as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured
as part of CPU. Equivalent microcontrollers and/or processors may also be used.
Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include:
Broadcom's CryptoNetX and other Security Processors; nCipher's nShield,
SafeNet's Luna PCI (e.g., 7100) series; Semaphore Communications' 40 MHz
Roadrunner 184; Sun's Cryptographic Accelerators (e.g., Accelerator 6000 PCIe
Board, Accelerator 500 Daughtercard); Via Nano Processor (e.g., L2100, L2200,
U2400) line, which is capable of performing 500+ MB/s of cryptographic instructions;
VLSI Technology's 33 MHz 6868; and/or the like.
[0155] Memory
[0156] Generally, any mechanization and/or embodiment allowing a processor to
affect the storage and/or retrieval of information is regarded as memory 829.
However, memory is commonly a fungible technology and resource, thus, any
number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one
                                            39

  WO 2012/135115                                                      PCT/US2012/030560
another. It is to be understood that the controller and/or a computer systemization
may employ various forms of memory 829. For example, a computer systemization
may be configured wherein the functionality of on-chip CPU memory (e.g., registers),
RAM, ROM, and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or
paper punch card mechanism; of course such an embodiment would result in an
extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration, memory 829 will include
ROM 806, RAM 805, and a storage device 814. A storage device 814 may be any
conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum; a
(fixed and/or removable) magnetic disk drive; a magneto-optical drive; an optical
drive (i.e., Blu-ray*, CD ROM/RAM/Recordable (R)/ReWritable (RW), DVD R/RW,
HD DVD R/RW etc.); an array of devices (e.g., Redundant Array of Independent
Disks (RAID)); solid state memory devices (USB memory, solid state drives (SSD),
etc.); other processor-readable storage mediums; and/or other devices of the like.
Thus, a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.
[0157] Component Collection
[0158] The memory 829 may contain a collection of program and/or database
components and/or data such as, but not limited to: operating system component(s)
815 (operating system); information server component(s) 816 (information server);
user interface component(s) 817 (user interface); Web browser component(s) 818
(Web browser); database(s) 819; mail server component(s) 821; mail client
component(s) 822; cryptographic server component(s) 820 (cryptographic server);
the controller component(s) 835; and/or the like (i.e., collectively a component
collection). These components may be stored and accessed from the storage
devices and/or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although
non-conventional program components such as those in the component collection,
typically, are stored in a local storage device 814, they may also be loaded and/or
stored in memory such as: peripheral devices, RAM, remote storage facilities
through a communications network, ROM, various forms of memory, and/or the like.
[0159] Operating System
[0160] The operating system component 815 is an executable program component
facilitating the operation of the controller. Typically, the operating system facilitates
access of I/O, network interfaces, peripheral devices, storage devices, and/or the
like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant, scalable, and secure
                                              40

  WO 2012/135115                                                   PCT/US2012/030560
system such as: Apple Macintosh OS X (Server); AT&T Plan 9; Be OS; Unix and
Unix-like system distributions (such as AT&T's UNIX; Berkley Software Distribution
(BSD) variations such as FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, and/or the like; Linux
distributions such as Red Hat, Ubuntu, and/or the like); and/or the like operating
systems. However, more limited and/or less secure operating systems also may be
employed such as Apple Macintosh OS, IBM OS/2, Microsoft DOS, Microsoft
Windows 2000/2003/3.1/95/98/CE/Millenium/NT/Vista/XP (Server), Palm OS, and/or
the like. An operating system may communicate to and/or with other components in
a component collection, including itself, and/or the like. Most frequently, the
operating system communicates with other program components, user interfaces,
and/or the like. For example, the operating system may contain, communicate,
generate, obtain, and/or provide program component, system, user, and/or data
communications, requests, and/or responses. The operating system, once executed
by the CPU, may enable the interaction with communications networks, data, 1/O,
peripheral devices, program components, memory, user input devices, and/or the
like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the
controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network 813.
Various communication protocols may be used by the controller as a subcarrier
transport mechanism for interaction, such as, but not limited to: multicast, TCP/IP,
UDP, unicast, and/or the like.
[0161]    Information Server
[0162] An information server component 816 is a stored program component that is
executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet
information server such as, but not limited to Apache Software Foundation's Apache,
Microsoft's Internet Information Server, and/or the like. The information server may
allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active
Server Page (ASP), ActiveX, (ANSI) (Objective-) C (++), C# and/or .NET, Common
Gateway Interface (CGI) scripts, dynamic (D) hypertext markup language (HTML),
FLASH, Java, JavaScript, Practical Extraction Report Language (PERL), Hypertext
Pre-Processor (PHP), pipes, Python, wireless application protocol (WAP),
WebObjects, and/or the like. The information server may support secure
communications protocols such as, but not limited to, File Transfer Protocol (FTP);
HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP); Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTPS),
Secure Socket Layer (SSL), messaging protocols (e.g., America Online (AOL)
                                           41

  WO 2012/135115                                                   PCT/US2012/030560
Instant Messenger (AIM), Application Exchange (APEX), ICQ, Internet Relay Chat
(IRC), Microsoft Network (MSN) Messenger Service, Presence and Instant
Messaging Protocol (PRIM), Internet Engineering Task Force's (IETF's) Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP), SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging
Extensions (SIMPLE), open XML-based Extensible Messaging and Presence
Protocol (XMPP) (i.e., Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance's (OMA's) Instant Messaging
and Presence Service (IMPS)), Yahoo! Instant Messenger Service, and/or the like.
The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers,
and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with
other program components. After a Domain Name System (DNS) resolution portion
of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server, the information
server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the IPOT controller
based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example, a request such as
http://123.124.125.126/mylnformation.html might have the IP portion of the request
"123.124.125.126" resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP
address; that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the
"/mylnformation.html" portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory
containing the information "mylnformation.html." Additionally, other information
serving protocols may be employed across various ports, e.g., FTP communications
across port 21, and/or the like. An information server may communicate to and/or
with other components in a component collection, including itself, and/or facilities of
the like. Most frequently, the information server communicates with the controller
database 819, operating systems, other program components, user interfaces, Web
browsers, and/or the like.
[0163] Access to the database may be achieved through a number of database
bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below (e.g.,
CGI) and through inter-application communication channels as enumerated below
(e.g., CORBA, WebObjects, etc.). Any data requests through a Web browser are
parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the
controller. In one embodiment, the information server would provide a Web form
accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are
tagged as having been entered into the particular fields, and parsed as such. The
entered terms are then passed along with the field tags, which act to instruct the
parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and/or fields. In one
                                            42

  WO 2012/135115                                                      PCT/US2012/030560
embodiment, the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a
search string with the proper join/select commands based on the tagged text entries,
wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the
controller as a query. Upon generating query results from the query, the results are
passed over the bridge mechanism, and may be parsed for formatting and
generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results
Web page is then provided to the information server, which may supply it to the
requesting Web browser.
[0164] Also, an information server may contain, communicate, generate, obtain,
and/or provide program component, system, user, and/or data communications,
requests, and/or responses.
[0165] User Interface
[0166] Computer interfaces in some respects are similar to automobile operation
interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels,
gearshifts, and speedometers facilitate the access, operation, and display of
automobile resources, and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as
check boxes, cursors, menus, scrollers, and windows (collectively and commonly
referred to as widgets) similarly facilitate the access, capabilities, operation, and
display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources, and status.
Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces
(GUls) such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System's Aqua, IBM's OS/2,
Microsoft's Windows 2000/2003/3.1/95/98/CE/Millenium/NT/XP/Vista/7 (i.e., Aero),
Unix's X-Windows (e.g., which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries
and layers such as K Desktop Environment (KDE), mythTV and GNU Network
Object Model Environment (GNOME)), web interface libraries (e.g., ActiveX, AJAX,
(D)HTML, FLASH, Java, JavaScript, etc. interface libraries such as, but not limited
to, Dojo, jQuery(UI), MooTools, Prototype, script.aculo.us, SWFObject, Yahoo! User
Interface, any of which may be used and) provide a baseline and means of
accessing and displaying information graphically to users.
[0167] A user interface component 817 is a stored program component that is
executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface
as provided by, with, and/or atop operating systems and/or operating environments
such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display, execution,
                                              43

  WO 2012/135115                                                       PCT/US2012/030560
interaction, manipulation, and/or operation of program components and/or system
facilities through textual and/or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a
facility through which users may affect, interact, and/or operate a computer system.
A user interface may communicate to and/or with other components in a component
collection, including itself, and/or facilities of the like. Most frequently, the user
interface communicates with operating systems, other program components, and/or
the like. The user interface may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and/or
provide program component, system, user, and/or data communications, requests,
and/or responses.
[0168] Web Browser
[0169] A Web browser component 818 is a stored program component that is
executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing
application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web
browsing may be supplied with 128bit (or greater) encryption by way of HTTPS, SSL,
and/or the like. Web browsers allowing for the execution of program components
through facilities such as ActiveX, AJAX, (D)HTML, FLASH, Java, JavaScript, web
browser plug-in APIs (e.g., FireFox, Safari Plug-in, and/or the like APIs), and/or the
like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs,
cellular telephones, and/or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate
to and/or with other components in a component collection, including itself, and/or
facilities of the like. Most frequently, the Web browser communicates with
information servers, operating systems, integrated program components (e.g., plug
ins), and/or the like; e.g., it may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and/or
provide program component, system, user, and/or data communications, requests,
and/or responses. Of course, in place of a Web browser and information server, a
combined application may be developed to perform similar functions of both. The
combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of
information to users, user agents, and/or the like from the controller enabled nodes.
The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web
browsers.
[0170] Mail Server
[0171] A mail server component 821 is a stored program component that is
executed by a CPU 803. The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server
                                               44

  WO 2012/135115                                                      PCT/US2012/030560
such as, but not limited to sendmail, Microsoft Exchange, and/or the like. The mail
server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as
ASP, ActiveX, (ANSI) (Objective-) C (++), C# and/or .NET, CGI scripts, Java,
JavaScript, PERL, PHP, pipes, Python, WebObjects, and/or the like. The mail
server may support communications protocols such as, but not limited to: Internet
message access protocol (IMAP), Messaging Application Programming Interface
(MAPI)/Microsoft Exchange, post office protocol (POP3), simple mail transfer
protocol (SMTP), and/or the like. The mail server can route, forward, and process
incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent, relayed and/or otherwise
traversing through and/or to the controller.
[0172] Access to the mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by
the individual Web server components and/or the operating system.
[0173] Also, a mail server may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and/or
provide program component, system, user, and/or data communications, requests,
information, and/or responses.
[0174] Mail Client
[0175] A mail client component 822 is a stored program component that is
executed by a CPU 803. The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing
application such as Apple Mail, Microsoft Entourage, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft
Outlook Express, Mozilla, Thunderbird, and/or the like. Mail clients may support a
number of transfer protocols, such as: IMAP, Microsoft Exchange, POP3, SMTP,
and/or the like. A mail client may communicate to and/or with other components in a
component collection, including itself, and/or facilities of the like. Most frequently,
the mail client communicates with mail servers, operating systems, other mail clients,
and/or the like; e.g., it may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and/or provide
program component, system, user, and/or data communications, requests,
information, and/or responses. Generally, the mail client provides a facility to
compose and transmit electronic mail messages.
[0176] Cryptographic Server
[0177] A cryptographic server component 820 is a stored program component that
is executed by a CPU 803, cryptographic processor 826, cryptographic processor
interface 827, cryptographic processor device 828, and/or the like. Cryptographic
                                           45

  WO 2012/135115                                                     PCT/US2012/030560
processor interfaces will allow for expedition of encryption and/or decryption
requests by the cryptographic component; however, the cryptographic component,
alternatively, may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows
for the encryption and/or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component
allows for both symmetric and asymmetric (e.g., Pretty Good Protection (PGP))
encryption and/or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ
cryptographic techniques such as, but not limited to: digital certificates (e.g., X.509
authentication framework), digital signatures, dual signatures, enveloping, password
access protection, public key management, and/or the like. The cryptographic
component will facilitate numerous (encryption and/or decryption) security protocols
such as, but not limited to: checksum, Data Encryption Standard (DES), Elliptical
Curve Encryption (ECC), International Data Encryption Algorithm (IDEA), Message
Digest 5 (MD5, which is a one way hash function), passwords, Rivest Cipher (RC5),
Rijndael, RSA (which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses
an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest, Adi Shamir, and Leonard Adleman),
Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA), Secure Socket Layer (SSL), Secure Hypertext
Transfer Protocol (HTTPS), and/or the like. Employing such encryption security
protocols, the IPOT may encrypt all incoming and/or outgoing communications and
may serve as node within a virtual private network (VPN) with a wider
communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of
"security authorization" whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security
protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the
secured resource. In addition, the cryptographic component may provide unique
identifiers of content, e.g., employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for
an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and/or with
other components in a component collection, including itself, and/or facilities of the
like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the
secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the
controller component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The
cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the
controller and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems; i.e., it
may act as a client and/or server of secured resources. Most frequently, the
cryptographic component communicates with information servers, operating
systems, other program components, and/or the like. The cryptographic component
                                            46

  WO 2012/135115                                                      PCT/US2012/030560
may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and/or provide program component,
system, user, and/or data communications, requests, and/or responses.
[0178] The Database
[0179] The database component 819 may be embodied in a database and its
stored data. The database is a stored program component, which is executed by the
CPU; the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the
stored data. The database may be a conventional, fault tolerant, relational, scalable,
secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension
of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables
are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the
tables by indexing against the key field; i.e., the key fields act as dimensional pivot
points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify
links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent
fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More
precisely, they uniquely identify rows of a table on the "one" side of a one-to-many
relationship.
[0180] Alternatively, the database may be implemented using various standard
data-structures, such as an array, hash, (linked) list, struct, structured text file (e.g.,
XML), table, and/or the like. Such data-structures may be stored in memory and/or
in (structured) files. In another alternative, an object-oriented database may be
used, such as Frontier, ObjectStore, Poet, Zope, and/or the like. Object databases
can include a number of object collections that are grouped and/or linked together by
common attributes; they may be related to other object collections by some common
attributes. Object-oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with
the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of
functionality encapsulated within a given object. If the database is implemented as a
data-structure, the use of the database 819 may be integrated into another
component such as the controller component 835. Also, the database may be
implemented as a mix of data structures, objects, and relational structures.
Databases may be consolidated and/or distributed in countless variations through
standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases, e.g., tables, may be
exported and/or imported and thus decentralized and/or integrated.
                                             47

  WO 2012/135115                                                   PCT/US2012/030560
[0181]    In one embodiment, the database component 819 includes several tables
819a-j. A User table 819a may include fields such as, but not limited to: userid,
applicant id, firstname, lastname, address_linel, address_line2, dob, ssn,
creditcheck flag, zipcode, city, state, accountparamslist, accountmode,
account-type, accountexpiry, preferredbankname, preferredbranch_name,
credit-report, and/or the like. The Users 819a table may support and/or track
multiple entity accounts on a controller. A Clients table 819b may include fields such
as, but not limited to: clientID, clienttype, clientMAC, clientIP,
presentation_format, pixelcount, resolution, screensize, audiofidelity,
hardwaresettingslist, software_ compatibilities_list, installedapps_list, and/or the
like. An Apps table 819c may include fields such as, but not limited to: app_ID,
appname, apptype, OS_compatibilities_list, version, timestamp, developerID,
and/or the like. A Merchants table 819d may include fields such as, but not limited
to: merchantid, merchantname, provi merchantaddress, ipaddress,
macaddress, auth_key, port num, securitysettingslist, and/or the like. An Issuers
table 819e may include fields such as, but not limited to: accountfirstname,
accountlastname, account-type, accountnum, accountbalance_list,
billingaddress_ line, billingaddress_ line2, billingzipcode, billingstate,
shippingpreferences, shippingaddress_linel, shippingaddress_line2,
shippingzipcode, shippingstate, issuerid, issuername, issuer-address,
ipaddress, macaddress, authkey, portnum, securitysettingslist, and/or the
like. An Acquirers table 819f may include fields such as, but not limited to:
accountfirstname, accountlastname, accounttype, accountnum,
accountbalancelist, billingaddress_ line, billingaddress_ line2, billingzipcode,
billingstate, shippingpreferences, shippingaddress_linel, shippingaddress_line2,
shippingzipcode, shippingstate, and/or the like. A Ledgers table 819g may include
fields such as, but not limited to: requestid, timestamp, deposit-amount, batch_id,
transactionid, clearflag, depositaccount, transaction_ summary, payor name,
payoraccount, and/or the like. A Transactions table 819h may include fields such
as, but not limited to: orderid, userid, timestamp, transaction_cost,
purchasedetails list, numproducts, products_list, product type, product params
_list, product-title, productsummary, quantity, userid, clientid, client ip,
clienttype, clientmodel, operatingsystem, osversion, app installed flag, userid,
accountfirstname, accountlastname, accounttype, accountnum, billingaddress_
line, billingaddress_line2, billing_ zipcode, billingstate, shippingpreferences,
                                           48

  WO 2012/135115                                                      PCT/US2012/030560
shippingaddress_linel, shippingaddress_ line2, shipping zipcode, shipping_state,
merchantid, merchantname, merchant_ auth_key, and/or the like. A Batches table
819i may include fields such as, but not limited to: applicantfirstname,
applicant lastname, applicantaddressmlinel, applicant address_line2,
consumerbureaudatalist, consumerbureaudata, applicant clear flag,
creditlimit, creditscore, accountbalances, delinquency flag, quality flags,
batchid, transactionid_list, timestamp_list, cleared flag_list,
clearancetrigger settings, and/or the like. An Offers table 819j may include fields
such as, but not limited to: offerid, offer-name, offer-byline, merchantid,
productid, offerdetail_list, offer expirydate, and/or the like.
[0182]    In one embodiment, the database may interact with other database systems.
For example, employing a distributed database system, queries and data access by
a search controller component may treat the combination of the database, an
integrated data security layer database as a single database entity.
[0183]    In one embodiment, user programs may contain various user interface
primitives, which may serve to update the controller. Also, various accounts may
require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of
clients the controller may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields
may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment, these
tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective
database controllers (i.e., individual database controllers for each of the above
tables). Employing standard data processing techniques, one may further distribute
the databases over several computer systemizations and/or storage devices.
Similarly, configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by
consolidating and/or distributing the various database components 819a-j. The
controller may be configured to keep track of various settings, inputs, and
parameters via database controllers.
[0184] The database may communicate to and/or with other components in a
component collection, including itself, and/or facilities of the like. Most frequently,
the database communicates with the controller component, other program
components, and/or the like. The database may contain, retain, and provide
information regarding other nodes and data.
[0185] The Controllers
                                            49

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
[0186] The controller component 835 is a stored program component that is
executed by a CPU. In one embodiment, the controller component incorporates any
and/or all combinations of the aspects of the controller discussed in the previous
figures. As such, the controller affects accessing, obtaining and the provision of
information, services, transactions, and/or the like across various communications
networks.
[0187] The controller component may transform product code snapshots via
controller components into real-time offer-driven electronic purchase transaction
notifications, and/or the like and use of the controller. In one embodiment, the
controller component 835 takes inputs (e.g., product identifier 401, purchase
instruction (see 410), product identifier and user identifier 501, purchase input 611,
issuer server data 620, user data 625, batch data 639, issuer server data 647, and/or
the like) etc., and transforms the inputs via various components (e.g., mPPT
component 841, POS component 842, CTE component 843, and/or the like), into
outputs (e.g., product info display 405, purchase confirmation display 425, bare
product info 530, product info and promotion info 535, purchase confirmation receipt
570, authorization message 627, transaction data 630, authorization message 631
632, batch append data 634, purchase receipt 635, transaction data 645, funds
transfer message 652-653, and/or the like).
[0188] The controller component enabling access of information between nodes
may be developed by employing standard development tools and languages. In one
embodiment, the controller server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and
decrypt communications. The controller component may communicate to and/or
with other components in a component collection, including itself, and/or facilities of
the like. Most frequently, the controller component communicates with the controller
database, operating systems, other program components, and/or the like. The
controller may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and/or provide program
component, system, user, and/or data communications, requests, and/or responses.
[0189] Distributed Controllers
[0190] The structure and/or operation of any of the node controller components
may be combined, consolidated, and/or distributed in any number of ways to
facilitate development and/or deployment. Similarly, the component collection may
be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and/or development.
                                            50

  WO 2012/135115                                                  PCT/US2012/030560
To accomplish this, one may integrate the components into a common code base or
in a facility that can dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated
fashion.
[0191] The component collection may be consolidated and/or distributed in
countless variations through standard data processing and/or development
techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the
program component collection may be instantiated on a single node, and/or across
numerous nodes to improve performance through load-balancing and/or data
processing techniques. Furthermore, single instances may also be distributed
across multiple controllers and/or storage devices; e.g., databases. All program
component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard
data processing communication techniques.
[0192] The configuration of the controller will depend on the context of system
deployment. Factors such as, but not limited to, the budget, capacity, location,
and/or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment
requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more
consolidated and/or integrated program components, results in a more distributed
series of program components, and/or results in some combination between a
consolidated and distributed configuration, data may be communicated, obtained,
and/or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base
from the program component collection may communicate, obtain, and/or provide
data. This may be accomplished through intra-application data processing
communication techniques such as, but not limited to: data referencing (e.g.,
pointers), internal messaging, object instance variable communication, shared
memory space, variable passing, and/or the like.
[0193]     If component collection components are discrete, separate, and/or external
to one another, then communicating, obtaining, and/or providing data with and/or to
other component components may be accomplished through inter-application data
processing communication techniques such as, but not limited to: Application
Program Interfaces (API) information passage; (distributed) Component Object
Model ((D)COM), (Distributed) Object Linking and Embedding ((D)OLE), and/or the
like), Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA), Jini local and remote
application program interfaces, JavaScript Object Notation (JSON), Remote Method
Invocation (RMI), SOAP, process pipes, shared files, and/or the like. Messages sent
                                            51

  WO 2012/135115                                                    PCT/US2012/030560
between discrete component components for inter-application communication or
within memory spaces of a singular component for intra-application communication
may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may
be developed by using development tools such as lex, yacc, XML, and/or the like,
which allow for grammar generation and parsing capabilities, which in turn may form
the basis of communication messages within and between components.
[0194] FIG. 9 is a flowchart of a process in accordance with an embodiment.
Process 900 can be implemented by a computer or other machine. In operation 901,
a product identifier for a potential purchase item is obtained by a mobile device
based on an in-person capture of the product identifier at a retail store. in operation
902, a price of the potential purchase item is determined from a database associated
with the retail store. In operation 903, an interface element (e.g., a button) is
displayed on a mobile device operative to indicate consent from the consumer to
charge an account of the consumer for the potential purchase item. In operation
904, a first risk score is calculated based on the price of the potential purchase item.
In operation 905, the first risk score is compared to a threshold value. In operation
906, a message is sent from a server to the mobile device based on the comparison
of the first risk score to the threshold value, the message having an interface
element operative to initiate a video chat session between the consumer and a
customer service representative. In operation 907, a video chat session is opened
based on a selection of the interface element in the message by the consumer. In
operation 908, a second risk score is calculated based on the first risk score and the
opening of the video chat session. In operation 909, an electronic receipt for an
approved purchase of the item is received at the mobile device.
[0195] FIG. 10 is a flowchart of a process in accordance with an embodiment.
Process 1000 can be implemented by a computer or other machine. In operation
1001, a product identifier for a potential purchase item is obtained based on an in
person capture of the product identifier by a mobile device of a consumer at a retail
store. In operation 1002, a merchant is identified for the potential purchase item, the
merchant associated with the retail store. In operation 1003, a price of the potential
purchase item is determined based on the merchant. In operation 1004, consent
from the consumer is obtained, using the mobile device, to purchase the item. In
operation 1005, a purchase transaction with the identified merchant is initiated, using
the mobile device, for the potential purchase item based on the consumer's consent.
                                             52

  WO 2012/135115                                                      PCT/US2012/030560
In operation 1006, an electronic receipt having a merchant verifiable code is received
on the mobile device, the receipt based on the purchase transaction. In operation
1007, the verifiable code is produced (e.g., shown, wirelessly emitted) from the
mobile device while the mobile device is proximate to a reader at the retail store. in
operation 1008, an indication that the verifiable code is valid is received, thereby
allowing the consumer to egress the retail store with the item.
[0196] FIG. 11 is a flowchart of a process in accordance with an embodiment.
Process 1100 can be implemented by a computer or other machine. In operation
1101, a product identifier for a potential purchase item is obtained based on an in
person capture of the product identifier by a mobile device of a consumer at a retail
store. In operation 1102, a price of the potential purchase item is determined. In
operation 1103, consent is received from the consumer to charge an account of the
consumer. In operation 1104, the account of the consumer is charged for a
purchase of the item. In operation 1105, an indication that the charging of the
account was successful is received. In operation 1106, an electronic receipt having
a verifiable code is generated based on the received indication. In operation 1107,
the electronic receipt is sent to the mobile device of the consumer. In operation
1108, the verifiable code is read from the mobile device. In operation 1109, the
verifiable code read from the mobile device is verified to be valid. In operation 1110,
an indication that the verifiable code is valid is sent to allow the consumer to egress
the retail store with the item.
[0197] FIG. 12 is a flowchart of a process in accordance with an embodiment.
Process 1200 can be implemented by a computer or other machine. In operation
1201, an authorization request from an acquirer is received for payment from a first
payment account of a consumer to a merchant. In operation 1202, an offer for using
a second payment account associated with the consumer is determined (e.g.,
auctioned among the consumer's issuers), the determining based on receiving the
authorization request. In operation 1203, the determined offer is sent to the
consumer. In operation 1204, a selection of the offer is received from the consumer.
In operation 1205, the authorization request is revised to request a payment from the
second payment account of the consumer. In operation 1206, the revised
authorization request is sent to an issuer associated with the second payment
account.
                                            53

  WO 2012/135115                                                      PCT/US2012/030560
[0198] FIG. 13 is a flowchart of a process in accordance with an embodiment.
Process 1300 can be implemented by a computer or other machine. In operation
1301, a first authorization request is received from an acquirer for payment from a
payment account of a consumer to a first merchant. In operation 1302, a product
identifier for an item to be purchased is received. In operation 1303, an offer for a
competing item from a second merchant is determined, the determining based on
receiving the first authorization request and the received product identifier. In
operation 1304, the offer is sent to the consumer. In operation 1305, a selection of
the offer is received from the consumer. In operation 1306, the first authorization
request is canceled based on the received selection. In operation 1307, a second
authorization request is generated for payment from the payment account of the
consumer to the second merchant for the offer. In operation 1308, the second
authorization request is sent to an issuer associated with the payment account.
[0199] FIG. 14 is a flowchart of a process in accordance with an embodiment.
Process 1400 can be implemented by a computer or other machine. In operation
1401, a product identifier for a potential purchase item is obtained based on an in
person capture of the product identifier by a mobile device of a consumer at a retail
store. In operation 1402, a price of the potential purchase item is determined (e.g.,
looked up from a database). In operation 1403, consent is received from the
consumer to charge an account of the consumer. In operation 1404, the account is
charged for a purchase of the item. In operation 1405, an indication that the
charging of the account was successful is received. In operation 1406, an indication
is sent to an anti-theft system that the item is free to leave the retail store. In
operation 1407, and electronic receipt having a merchant verifiable code is sent to
the mobile device.
[0200]    It should be understood that the present invention as described above can
be implemented in the form of control logic using computer software in a modular or
integrated manner. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein, a person
of ordinary skill in the art will know and appreciate other ways and/or methods to
implement the present invention using hardware and a combination of hardware and
software.
[0201] Any of the software components or functions described in this application,
may be implemented as software code to be executed by a processor using any
suitable computer language such as, for example, Java, C++ or Perl using, for
                                             54

  WO 2012/135115                                                   PCT/US2012/030560
example, conventional or object-oriented techniques. The software code may be
stored as a series of instructions, or commands on a computer readable medium,
such as a random access memory (RAM), a read only memory (ROM), a magnetic
medium such as a hard-drive or a floppy disk, or an optical medium such as a CD
ROM. Any such computer readable medium may reside on or within a single
computational apparatus, and may be present on or within different computational
apparatuses within a system or network.
[0202] The above description is illustrative and is not restrictive. Many variations of
the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the
disclosure. The scope of the invention should, therefore, be determined not with
reference to the above description, but instead should be determined with reference
to the pending claims along with their full scope or equivalents.
[0203] One or more features from any embodiment may be combined with one or
more features of any other embodiment without departing from the scope of the
invention.
[0204] A recitation of "a", "an" or "the" is intended to mean "one or more" unless
specifically indicated to the contrary.
[0205] All patents, patent applications, publications, and descriptions mentioned
above are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes. None is
admitted to be prior art.
                                            55

CLAIMS:
1. A method performed in a retail store having an anti-theft system, comprising:
        receiving, by a server from a mobile device of a consumer at the retail store, a
product identifier for a potential purchase item which is obtained based on an in-person
capture of the product identifier by the mobile device;
        identifying, by the server, a merchant for the potential purchase item, the merchant
being associated with the retail store;
        determining, by the server, a price of the potential purchase item based on the
merchant;
        obtaining, by the server from the mobile device, consent from the consumer to
purchase the item;
        initiating, by the server using the mobile device, a purchase transaction with the
identified merchant for the potential purchase item based on the consumer's consent;
        providing by the server to the mobile device an electronic receipt having a merchant
verifiable code, the receipt being based on the purchase transaction;
        receiving the verifiable code from a reader at the retail store, the verifiable code
having been read from the mobile device using the reader while the mobile device is
proximate to the reader;
        verifying that the verifiable code is valid;
        receiving an indication that the verifiable code is valid;
        detecting at the anti-theft system an anti-theft tag of an item;
        determining that the anti-theft tag matches a product found in the electronic receipt;
and
        disarming the anti-theft system for the item.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the producing includes:
        displaying on the display screen of the mobile device the verifiable code, the verifiable
code being a machine-readable image that is rendered on the display screen to be optically read
by the reader, wherein the reader includes a camera.

3. The method of claim 2 wherein the verifiable code is selected from the group consisting
of a barcode, a two-dimensional barcode, and a QR Code two-dimensional code.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the producing includes:
        sending a wireless signal from the mobile device, the wireless signal including the
verifiable code and configured to be read by the reader.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein the verifiable code includes a digital certificate.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the obtaining the consent from the consumer includes:
        determining a default payment account for the consumer; displaying an
authorization interface on a display of the mobile device, the displaying of the authorization
interface automatically initiated upon the capturing of the product identifier, the
authorization interface configured to require one tap from the consumer in order to initiate
the payment transaction with the default payment account.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the product identifier is selected from the group
consisting of a Universal Product Code (UPC) barcode, a QR Code two-dimensional
code, and a radio frequency identification (RFID) tag.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the determining the price of the potential purchase item
includes:
        accessing an inventory database of the retail location merchant.

9. The method of claim 1 wherein the identifying the merchant includes:
        obtaining a geographical coordinate from the mobile device; and looking up the
merchant from the geographical coordinate.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein the operations are performed in the order shown.
11. The method of claim 1 wherein each operation is performed by the processor
operatively coupled to a memory.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
