   Abstract
   A method of assigning a player-entry to a table so that said player-entry can participate in a
   hand of a particular card game at said table, wherein there is a plurality of players each
 5 having one or more respective player-entries for participating in a respective hand of said
   card game, wherein a player-entry that is actively participating in a hand of said card game
   may fold out of turn from said hand so as to no longer be actively participating in said hand.
   The method comprises for a first player-entry of a first player, identifying an assignable table
   for said first player-entry from a plurality of tables for said card game, wherein a table is an
10 assignable table for a particular player-entry if the assignment of said particular player-entry
   to said table cannot itself provide any player with further information about a hand in which
   an already assigned player-entry of said player is actively participating in addition to
   information about said hand that is available to said player only by virtue of the participation
   of said already assigned player entry in said hand; and assigning the first player-entry to the
15 identified assignable table.
                                                                              9873748 1 (GHMatters) P91179.AU.2 2711112015

                            3/6
502       Generate list of unassigned idle
                   player-entries                 500
504        Generate list of inactive tables
506         Generate list of assignment
                      conflicts
508       Select next player-entry in list of
           unassigned idle player-entries
510     Assign the select player-entry to an
                   inactive table
  512
               Another player-entry?          Yes
                             No
  514
  51Any              stalling tables?         Yes
                             No
516            Handle stalling tables
         518
                        Done
                           FIG. 5

                           PLAYER-ENTRY ASSIGNMENT AND ORDERING
   Cross-Reference to Related Applications
   This application is a divisional application, of application no. 2015264831 which in turn is a
 5 divisional of application no. 2010343698 filed 29 December 2010, which claims priority from
   EP patent application no. 10250085.7 filed 19 January 2010. The disclosures of each of
   these applications are incorporated herein by reference.
   Field of the Invention
10 The present invention relates to a method of assigning a player-entry to a table and a method
   of determining an order in which a group of player-entries participate in a hand of a card
   game. The present invention also relates to apparatus arranged to carry out any such method
   and to computer programs which, when executed by a processor, carry out any such method.
15 Background of the Invention
   In a normal game of poker, people sit together at a table with a deck of cards. Each player
   takes a turn dealing the cards clockwise beginning at the left of the dealer until all players
   have a designated number of cards. The player to the left of the dealer who receives the first
   card will deal the next hand.
20
   In professional games at card rooms, a separate person referred to as the "dealer" physically
   deals the cards, but he does not play. Since the deck resides with the stationary dealer, a
   round disk called a dealer's button or simply the "button", is placed in front of the player sitting
   in the dealer's seat. The person on the button or dealer's seat has an advantage, because he
25 acts last on his hand, after the other players.
   Many people are now playing poker on the Internet. A number of companies host games by
   having a website or URL, such as www.FullTiltPoker.com. The host sites generally offer a
   variety of games, and the number of players in a game will vary. The same type of game may
30 be offered with a different maximum number of players. The lower the maximum number of
   players, the less the quality of the hand necessary to "call" and the faster the game. Where
   fifty-five hands an hour might be played in a nine player game, one hundred hands an hour
   might be played in a six player game.
35 A popular online poker game is Hold 'Em, and at times it comprises approximately eighty
   percent of the online games played. Four other popular games with a smaller percentage of
   the market include Four Card Omaha High, Four Card Omaha 80B (high-low eight or better),
   Seven Card Stud High and Seven Card Stud 80B. Other games comprise a smaller
   percentage of the market. The relative popularity of these and other games typically changes
40 over time.
   In poker games, it is possible for two or more people to play together in collusion (a form of

   cheating). To do this, the players may use signals designed to keep other players from
   discovering their scheme. Although Internet and other organizations providing electronic play
   do their best to eliminate collusion, it can be a major problem. In some cases an online poker
   player can play two hands at the same table under two different names. The cheater may
 5 login by dialing different servers using different login names. The servers may have different
   Internet or IP addresses, and there is no reliable method for identifying or tracking a person
   playing under two different names at the same table.
   Besides collusion, another problem with poker play is boredom. Players typically respond
   serially in a clockwise fashion, each being forced to wait his turn, even if the player just
10 intends to fold. Then, when a player's turn comes and he folds, he has to wait for the hand to
   end before he becomes active again. In some cases, online poker sites attempt to allow
   players to remain more active by letting players play at more than one table at a time. To do
   this, a player may open a second window and play at two different tables at the same time.
   This activity, referred to as "multi-tabling" or "double dipping" in poker jargon, does afford a
15 player more action by allowing him to play twice as many hands per hour. However, it is not
   seamless. There are frequent times when the player is idle at both tables, and there are times
   when he will need to respond concurrently at both tables.
   Summary of the invention
   According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a computerised method of
20 assigning a player-entry to a virtual table in a computerised gaming system so that said
   player-entry can participate in a hand of a particular card game at said virtual table, wherein
   there is a plurality of players each having one or more respective player-entries for
   participating in a respective hand of said card game, wherein a player-entry that is actively
   participating in a hand of said card game may fold out of turn from said hand so as to no
25 longer be actively participating in said hand, the method comprising: for a first player-entry of
   a first player, the gaming system identifying an assignable virtual table for said first player
   entry from a plurality of virtual tables for said card game, wherein a virtual table is an
   assignable virtual table for a particular player-entry if the assignment of said particular player
   entry to said virtual table cannot itself provide any player with further information about a hand
30 in which an already assigned player-entry of said player is actively participating in addition to
   information about said hand that is available to said player only by virtue of the participation of
   said already assigned player entry in said hand; and the gaming system assigning the first
   player-entry to the identified assignable virtual table. In other words, the assignment of a
   player-entry to a virtual table should not allow any player to gain (via observing or participating
35 in a hand or hands via their own player-entry or player-entries) additional information which
   may aid that player in their hand(s) (e.g. information about the activities of the now-assigned
   player-entry). The assignment of a player-entry to a virtual table should not allow a player with
   a player entry also assigned (or subsequently assigned) to that virtual table to gain

   information about another hand in which that player is participating.
   In one embodiment, the number of player-entries currently assigned to an assignable virtual
   table is less than a threshold number required for participating in a hand of said card game.
   The step of identifying may then comprise identifying an assignable virtual table for said first
 5 player-entry that has the largest number of player entries currently assigned out of all of the
   assignable virtual tables for said first player entry.
   In one embodiment, said further information identifies that said first player entry has folded out
   of turn from said hand in which said already assigned player entry is actively participating.
   In one embodiment, when said first player-entry folded out of turn from the hand that said first
10 player-entry most recently participated in, the step of identifying comprises determining that a
   particular virtual table is not an assignable virtual table for said first player-entry if a second
   player that has a player-entry still actively participating in said hand that said first player-entry
   most recently participated in also has a player-entry assigned to that particular virtual table. In
   one embodiment, when there is a particular virtual table to which a further player-entry has
15 been assigned and said further player-entry folded out of turn from the hand that said further
   player-entry most recently participated in, said step of identifying comprises determining that
   said particular virtual table is not an assignable virtual table for said first player-entry if said
   first player has a second player-entry still actively participating in said hand that said further
   player-entry most recently participated in.
20 In one embodiment, the method comprises: if none of said plurality of virtual tables is an
   assignable virtual table for said first player-entry, adding a new virtual table to said plurality of
   virtual tables, said step of identifying then identifying said new virtual table.
   In one embodiment, the method comprises the gaming system carrying out the steps of
   identifying and assigning for each player-entry of said plurality of players that is not currently
25 assigned to a respective virtual table. In one embodiment, the method comprises the gaming
   system carrying out, at each of a sequence of time-points, the steps of identifying and
   assigning for each player-entry of said plurality of players that is not currently assigned to a
   respective virtual table.
   The method may comprise: at a time-point, identifying that at least one of said plurality of
30 virtual tables is a stalling table, wherein a virtual table is a stalling virtual table if the number of
   player-entries assigned to said virtual table has, for a predetermined number of most recent
   time-points, been less than a threshold number required for participating in a hand of said
   card game; selecting a first virtual table from said plurality of virtual tables, wherein the
   number of player-entries currently assigned to said virtual table is less than said threshold
35 number by N player-entries, where N is a positive integer; identifying a stalling virtual table
   having at least N player-entries currently assigned and for which said first table is an
   assignable virtual table; and reassigning N player-entries of said at least N player-entries to

   said first virtual table. The step of selecting a first virtual table may comprise selecting a first
   table from said plurality of virtual tables that has a smallest respective value of N.
   In one embodiment, the method comprises the gaming system carrying out the steps of
   identifying and assigning for a player-entry that did not folded out of turn from the hand that
 5 that player-entry most recently participated in before carrying out the steps of identifying and
   assigning for a player-entry that did folded out of turn from the hand that that player-entry
   most recently participated in.
   In one embodiment, the method comprises: before carrying out the steps of identifying and
   assigning, the gaming system generating a list of constraints on the assignment of any
10 currently unassigned player-entries; wherein the step of identifying uses said list of constraints
   to identify whether a virtual table is an assignable virtual table for said first player-entry.
   According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of determining, in a
   computerised gaming system, an order in which a group of player-entries, from a plurality of
   player-entries, that have been assigned to a virtual table to participate in a hand of a card
15 game associated with said virtual table take a turn in said hand, wherein said order is based,
   at least in part, on which player-entry of said group of player-entries assumes a particular role
   in said hand, the method comprising: for each player entry of said plurality of player-entries,
   storing a respective counter that represents the number of hands in which that player-entry
   has participated since that player-entry last assumed said particular role; selecting a player
20 entry out of said group of player-entries that has the highest respective counter to be the
   player-entry that assumes said particular role in said hand, wherein the step of selecting is
   performed after the number of player-entries in said group of player-entries has reached a
   threshold number of player-entries required for participating in said hand of said card game;
   assigning player-entries to said virtual table until the number of player-entries in said group of
25 player-entries has reached said threshold number, comprising the method according to the
   first broad aspect; and
   after the step of selecting, allowing said group of player-entries to participate in said hand of
   said card game.
   In one embodiment, the method comprises setting the respective counter of a newly-created
30 player-entry to a predetermined maximum value for said counter.
   In one embodiment, said particular role determines which of said player entries of said group
   of player-entries takes a first turn in said hand of said card game. In one embodiment, said
   particular role determines which of said player entries of said group of player-entries takes a
   first turn in a round of said hand of said card game. In one embodiment, said particular role is
35 one of a big blind, a small blind, or a dealer for said hand of said card game.

   In one embodiment, the virtual table has an associated cyclically ordered plurality of turn
   positions each allocatable to a respective player-entry from said group of player-entries,
   wherein the method comprises: when a player-entry has been assigned to said virtual table,
   randomly allocating to said player-entry a turn position from any of said plurality of turn
 5 positions that have not yet been allocated to a player-entry; wherein the relative order in which
   said group of player-entries take respective turns in said hand of said card game is
   determined by the cyclic ordering of said plurality of turn-positions and the allocations of said
   group of player-entries to said plurality of turn-positions.
   According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a gaming system comprising a
10 processor arranged to carry out any one of the above described methods.
   According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a computer program which,
   when executed by a computer, carries out any one of the above described methods.
   According to a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a computerised gaming
   system configured to assign a player-entry to a virtual table so that said player-entry can
15 participate in a hand of a particular card game at said virtual table, wherein the gaming
   system supports a plurality of players each having one or more respective player-entries for
   participating in a respective hand of said card game, wherein a player-entry that is actively
   participating in a hand of said card game may fold out of turn from said hand so as to no
   longer be actively participating in said hand, wherein the gaming system being further
20 configured to:
            for a first player-entry of a first player, identify an assignable virtual table for said first
   player-entry from a plurality of virtual tables for said card game,
            wherein a virtual table is an assignable virtual table for a particular player-entry if the
   assignment of said particular player-entry to said virtual table cannot itself provide any player
25 with further information about a hand in which an already assigned player-entry of said player
   is actively participating in addition to information about said hand that is available to said
   player only by virtue of the participation of said already assigned player entry in said hand;
   and
            assign the first player-entry to the identified assignable virtual table.
30 In an embodiment, the number of player-entries currently assigned to an assignable virtual
   table is less than a threshold number required for participating in a hand of said card game.
   In another embodiment, the step of identifying comprises identifying an assignable virtual
   table for said first player entry that has the largest number of player-entries currently assigned
   out of all of the assignable virtual tables for said first player-entry.
35 In a further embodiment, the further information identifies that said first player-entry has folded
   out of turn from said hand in which said already assigned player-entry is actively participating.

   In one embodiment, the first player-entry folded out of turn from the hand that said first player
   entry most recently participated in, and in which the gaming system is further configured to
   determine that a particular virtual table is not an assignable virtual table for said first player
   entry if a second player that has a player-entry still actively participating in said hand that said
 5 first player-entry most recently participated in also has a player-entry assigned to that
   particular virtual table.
   In an embodiment, there is a particular virtual table to which a further player-entry has been
   assigned and said further player-entry folded out of turn from the hand that said further player
   entry most recently participated in, and in which the gaming system is further configured to
10 determine that said particular virtual table is not an assignable virtual table for said first player
   entry if said first player has a second player-entry still actively participating in said hand that
   said further player-entry most recently participated in.
   Brief description of the drawings
   In order that the invention may be more readily ascertained, embodiments of the invention will
15 now be described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in
   which:
            Figure 1 schematically illustrates a gaming network, in accordance with a particular
   embodiment of the invention;
            Figure 2 schematically illustrates a gaming system of figure 1, in accordance with a
20 particular embodiment of the invention;
            Figure 3 schematically illustrates example functionality of a queue process, in
   accordance with a particular embodiment of the invention;
            Figure 4 is a flowchart schematically illustrating a method for computer gaming, in
   accordance with a particular embodiment of the invention;
25          Figure 5 is a flowchart schematically illustrating a task for assigning player entries that
   are not currently assigned to a table to respective inactive tables according to an embodiment
   of the invention;
            Figure 6 is a flowchart schematically illustrating the processing performed when the
   task of figure 5 has identified that there is a stalling table according to an embodiment of the
30 invention;
            Figures 7a and 7b schematically illustrate example tables with player entries and
   seating orders;
            Figure 8a illustrates probability distributions associated with role selection methods;
   and
35          Figure 8b illustrates cumulative probability distributions corresponding to the
   probability distributions of figure 8a.
   Detailed Description of Embodiments of the Invention
   In the description that follows and in the figures, certain embodiments of the invention are

   described. However, it will be appreciated that the invention is not limited to the embodiments
   that are described and that some embodiments may not include all of the features that are
   described below. It will be evident, however, that various modifications and changes may be
   made herein without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth
 5 in the appended claims.
   Figure 1 schematically illustrates a gaming network 10, in accordance with a particular
   embodiment. The gaming network 10 comprises a gaming system 12 and a plurality of access
   elements 14. The gaming system 12 is coupled to the access elements 14 through a
10 communication network 22. The communication network 22 allows the gaming system 12 and
   the access elements 14 to communicate with each other through a plurality of communication
   links 24. In particular embodiments, the gaming system 12 may be provided and maintained
   by a gaming company or organization. The access elements 14 allow users (or players) 16 to
   access the gaming system 12 through the communication network 22.
15
   The gaming system 12 provides various games for play by the users 16 accessing the gaming
   system 12 through the access elements 14. In particular embodiments, these games may
   include electronic poker games such as Hold 'Em, Omaha, Omaha Hi-Low, Seven Card Stud
   and Seven Card Stud Hi-Low. It will be appreciated that the gaming system 12 may,
20 additionally or alternatively, provide other electronic card games. The users 16 may play
   games provided through the gaming system 12 for free, for money or for various other prizes,
   such as coupons, discounts and merchandise. In some games, a user 16 may bet or wager
   real money or points or other items with or without monetary value. In the case of wagering
   and playing for money, a user 16 may deposit money in a money account with the gaming
25 system 12 by cheque, credit card, wire transfer lo or any other method. Once money is in a
   player's money account with the gaming system 12, the player 16 may purchase "chips" to be
   used in a game, up to the amount he has on deposit.
   The gaming system 12 may allow a player 16 to play, or participate in, multiple hands of one
30 or more electronic card games simultaneously. For example, a player 16 may play two, three,
   or more separate hands of Hold 'Em at the same time. Thus, a player 16 may have one or
   more so-called "player entries". A player-entry is a representation, occurrence, instance or
   version of that player 16 within a particular hand of a game, with that player-entry participating
   in that hand under the control of that player 16. For example, a player 16 may have a first
35 player-entry for playing a first hand of Hold 'Em, a second player-entry for playing a second
   hand of Hold 'Em different from, and concurrent with, the first hand of Hold 'Em, a third player
   entry for playing a third hand of Hold 'Em different from, and concurrent with, the first and

   second hands of Hold 'Em, and so on, possibly together with one or more other player-entries
   for different hands of different games. It will be appreciated that, in the above, Hold 'Em has
   been used merely as an example of a game. The gaming system 12 may arrange for the
   access device 14 being used by a player 16 to display a separate window (or play area) for
 5 each player-entry of that player 16, with a player-entry's participation in a hand of a game
   being displayed in, and controlled via, its window.
   It will be appreciated that in cases where a player 16 has only a single player-entry, or in
   which the game system 12 allows a player 16 to have at most one player-entry for any
10 particular game, then there is no distinction between a player 16 and his player-entry.
   In particular embodiments, a player-entry is moved to, or assigned to, a different table based
   on the availability of that player-entry in a game. For example, upon folding their cards a
   player-entry at one table may be moved or assigned (for example, through a queue or
15 directly) to another table to begin a new hand. Therefore, the player 16 of that player-entry
   may not have to wait until lo the end of the hand at the table at which that player-entry folded
   before continuing play in another hand via that player-entry. This functionality helps to reduce
   collusion by a player or several players, because it inherently separates collusive players who
   normally sit at the same table. By dispersing player-entries to new tables, players who are
20 partnering or playing two or more seats or player entries will not be able to consistently play at
   the same table. As the number of tables increases, the process of seating idle player-entries
   may create a larger number of active tables, and a player-entry may seamlessly play, or
   participate in, more hands over an equal timeframe when compared to a conventional game.
   Given the increased action of multiple active tables in the virtual table format, if the game is a
25 real money game featuring a rake from the pot for the game provider, then more money may
   be raked as compared to a conventional table format.
   In the illustrated embodiment, the communication network 22 enables communication
   between the access elements 14 and the gaming system 12, all of which may be distributed
30 across multiple cities and geographic regions. The network 22 may comprise one or more of
   partial wide area networks (WANs), public switched telephone networks (PSTNs), local area
   networks (LANs), the Internet or any other communications and data exchange networks or
   systems that enable communication between communication system elements, including
   public or private wireline or wireless networks. For example, in particular embodiments, some
35 access elements 14 may communicate with the gaming system 12 over the Internet, while
   other access elements 14 may communicate with the gaming system 12 over a LAN. The
   network 22 may also comprise any of a number of network components to enable

   communication between elements as described herein. Such network components may
   include gate keepers, call managers, routers, hubs, switches, gateways, endpoints or other
   hardware, software or embedded logic implementing any number of communication protocols
   that allow for the exchange of data in the gaming network 10. The term "communication
 5 network" should be interpreted as generally defining any network capable of transmitting
   audio and/or video telecommunication signals; data; and/or messages. Generally, the
   communication network 22 provides for the communication of packets, cells, frames, or other
   portions or data or information between and among the gaming system 12 and the access
   elements 14. In particular embodiments, the communication network 22 employs
10 communication protocols that allow for the addressing or identification of access elements,
   nodes and/or systems coupled to the network 22. For example, using internet protocol (IP),
   each of the components coupled together by the communication network 22 may be identified
   using IP addresses. In this manner, the communication network 22 may support any form
   and/or combination of point-to-point, multicast, unicast or other techniques for exchanging
15 media data and information among components of the gaming network 10. Any network
   components capable of exchanging audio, video or other data using frames, packets or
   otherwise may be included within the scope of particular embodiments.
   The access elements 14 may each be associated with one or more respective users (or
20 players) 16 of the gaming system 12. The access elements 14 may include any combination
   of hardware, software and/or encoded logic that provides communication services to a user
   16. For example, the access elements 14 may include a telephone, a computer running
   telephony software, a video monitor, a personal computer, a camera, an IP phone, a cell
   phone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a dedicated gaming console or machine, or any
25 other communication hardware, software and/or encoded logic that supports the
   communication of data or information with the gaming system 12 through the communication
   network 22. The access elements 14 may also include unattended or automated systems,
   gateways, other intermediate components or other devices that can establish media sessions.
   In particular embodiments, the gaming system 12 provides a website that makes information
30 and programming stored at the gaming system 12 available to the access elements 14 - for
   example, the gaming system 12 may make available, and allow an access element 14 to
   download, client software for execution at the access element 14 to enable a user 16 of the
   access element 14 to play a game. Access elements 14 may access from the gaming system
   12 information, files and functionality using a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) of the website.
35 The website may include web pages that may comprise text, images, sounds, animations and
   other information. In particular embodiments, the access elements 14 may operate or execute
   software that acts as an interface between the users 16 and the gaming system 12. In some

   cases this software may generally be referred to as "thin" or "dumb" software in situations
   where management and control of various games resides in the gaming system 12.
   The communication links 24 connecting the access elements 14 and the gaming system 12 to
 5 the network 22 may comprise any type of communication links capable of supporting data
   transfer, such as wireline or wireless links. In particular embodiments, the communication
   links 24 may comprise, alone or in combination, cable links, Digital Subscriber Line (DSL)
   links, Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) links, Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line
   (ADSL) links, T1 or T3 communication lines, wireless communication links, hardware lines,
10 telephone links or other suitable types of data communication links. The communication links
   24 may also connect to a plurality of intermediate servers or other components between the
   communication network 22 and the gaming system 12 and between the communication
   network 22 and the access elements 14.
15 Figure 2 schematically illustrates the gaming system 12, in accordance with a particular
   embodiment. The gaming system 12 includes an interface 48, a processor 50, a lobby
   process 52, a seating process 54, a queue process 56, a play review process 58 and a
   memory 60. Particular embodiments may include a gaming system 12 have none, some or all
   of the same or similar components as those described herein to perform various functionality
20 described herein. It will be appreciated that the gaming system 12 illustrated in figure 2 may
   comprise one or more computers (such as server computers) and may therefore comprise
   one or more interfaces 48 and/or one or more memories 60 and/or one or more processors 50
   working together or independently of each other.
25 The interface 48 couples the gaming system 12 with the communication network 22 and is
   operable to receive communications from and transmit communications to the communication
   network 22. The interface 48 may therefore be any suitable network interface.
   The processor 50 may be one or more of: a microprocessor, controller, or any other suitable
30 computing device, resource, or combination of hardware, software and/or encoded logic
   operable to provide, either alone or in conjunction with other components of the gaming
   system 12, functionality of the gaming system 12. Such functionality may include controlling,
   managing and providing various features discussed herein to a plurality of users 16, such as
   users 16 of the access elements 14 accessing the gaming system 12.
35
   The memory 60 may be any form of volatile or non-volatile memory including, without
   limitation, one or more of: magnetic media, optical media, random access memory (RAM),

   read-only memory (ROM), removable media, or any other suitable local or remote memory
   component. The memory 60 may store any suitable data or information, including software
   and encoded logic, utilized by the gaming system 12. For example, the memory 60 may store
   an operating system (not shown in figure 2) for execution by the processor 50. The memory
 5 60 may store one or more computer programs (not shown in figure 2) which, when executed
   by the processor 50, cause the processor 50 to carry out methods according to embodiments
   of the invention. In the embodiment illustrated in figure 2, the memory 60 includes or stores
   data for (or relating to) player accounts 62, games 64, queues or lists 66a and 66b, tables 67,
   statistics 68 and history 70. Gaming systems 12 in other embodiments may include a memory
10 60 that includes data for (or relating to) some, none or all of the same or similar components
   as those described above.
   The accounts data 62 generally include information relating to various players 16 who have an
   account with the gaming system 12. Each player 16 who has registered with the gaming
15 system 12 may have a player account with the gaming system 12, and the accounts data 62
   stores data relating to those player accounts. A player account of a player 16 may include
   information such as: a history of play of that player 16; account balance of that player 16; data
   relating to a money account of that player 16; data about the or each player-entry of that
   player 16, e.g., amount of money, chips, points or otherwise of that player-entry, current
20 status (idle or not participating in a hand, actively participating in a hand, paused, etc.), the
   table (if any) to which that player-entry has been assigned, etc.; profile of the player 16, such
   as a login name and a password; or any other suitable information.
   The games data 64 generally include information associated with electronic card games that
25 may be provided by and through the gaming system 12. Such information may include, for
   example, gaming software, rules, options, procedures, configurations and other information
   associated with games provided by the gaming system 12.
   The queues or lists 66 generally store data identifying player-entries waiting to join tables
30 associated with games of the gaming system 12, i.e. data identifying player-entries that are
   not actively participating in a hand of a game and that are not currently assigned to a table for
   future participation in a hand at a table. The queues 66 may store any suitable information
   associated with the players-entries in the queues, such as information described below that
   may be used with various queue and seating process functionality. Particular embodiments
35 may include any suitable number and/or type of queues or lists 66 for various situations. For
   example, each queue or list 66 may be associated with a particular type of game offered
   through the gaming system 12. For example, there may be a queue or list 66 for each

   particular type of game (such as Hold 'Em, Omaha, Omaha Hi-Low, Seven Card Stud and
   Seven Card Stud Hi-Low) and for each configuration of a particular type of game (such as a
   predetermined or threshold number of player-entries required to play a hand of the game
   and/or the value of a minimum bet or of a small or big blind of the game and/or whether the
 5 game is a no-limit game, a pot-limit game or a fixed-limit game, etc). In some cases, queues
   66 comprising idle players waiting to be placed in a table may be referred to as idle player
   queues. The lists or queues 66 may be ordered in one or more ways, as will be described
   below in more detail.
10 Tables data 67 may generally include information associated with various tables of various
   games. For example, such information may identify the number of tables, the identities of the
   current player-entries that have been assigned to the respective tables, game status
   information of tables (e.g. is a table "active" in that player-entries are currently actively
   participating in a game or is a table "inactive" in that currently an insufficient number of player
15 entries have been assigned to that table in order for a hand of the game associated with that
   table to be played), table betting parameters and any other suitable information to provide the
   functionality described herein.
   The statistics 68 generally includes statistical information kept by the gaming system 12, such
20 as game statistics, player statistics, player-entry statistics, situational statistics related to
   games and/or players and/or player entries in various situations and any other suitable
   statistical information. The statistics 68 may keep detailed player statistics that help define a
   player's skill level, such as statistics regarding a player's aggressiveness, folding percentage
   and raise percentage. In some embodiments statistics for a particular player or player-entry
25 may be made available to other players either during or outside of a particular game.
   The history data 70 generally includes historical information associated with the gaming
   system 12, such as game history, player history, player-entry history, recorded games and
   recorded hands or situations.
30
   The lobby process 52, seating process 54, queue process 56 and play review process 58 may
   comprise suitable hardware, software or encoded logic processes, algorithms or methods for
   execution by the gaming system 12 (e.g. by the processor 50 of the gaming system 12).
   Gaming systems in other embodiments may provide similar or different processes to execute
35 some or all of the functionality described herein.
   Various functionality of the gaming system 12 that may be provided in one or more

   embodiments is described herein. This functionality may be provided for any of a number of
   suitable electronic card games, such as various poker games and bridge. Particular games
   which may benefit from embodiments described herein include games involving the
   participation of multiple player-entries where the play, or turn, progresses serially from one
 5 player-entry to a next player-entry, where there may be some idling of players and some
   intellectual pauses.
   In particular embodiments, a user 16 may log-in to the gaming system 12 by keying in a
   unique login name associated with that user 16 (which may ultimately be displayed at the
10 user's selected seat at a table) and a password.
   The lobby process 52 may check the entered login name and password by comparing them
   with login names and passwords held in the various player accounts in the account data 62 - if
   there is a player account with a matching login name and password, then the lobby process
15 52 may log-in the associated user or player 16; otherwise, the user 16 is not logged-in. A
   player 16 who has never used the gaming system 12 before may be required to go through a
   registration process in order to have an associated player account set up.
   In particular embodiments, as further discussed below, to control the seating of a player-entry,
20 a "projected-next-seat-number" variable or indicator may be associated with the player-entry
   this may be stored, for example, within the account data 62 as data associated with that
   player-entry in the player 2s account for that player 16. When a new player-entry is created or
   instantiated for a particular game such as Hold 'Em, the lobby process 52 may set the
   "projected next-seat-number" of that player-entry to indicate the big blind, or seat number two,
25 to influence the seating algorithm such that it may cause a new player-entry to play the big
   blind.
   Alternatively, in particular embodiments, as further discussed below, to control the seating of a
   player-entry, a "number-of-hands-since-last-played" variable or indicator may be associated
30 with the player-entry - this may be stored, for example, within the account data 62 as data
   associated with that player-entry in the player account for that player 16. In various games,
   there is one or more particular roles within that game, such as being a small blind, being a big
   blind, or being the dealer (or having the button). A player-entry may have an associated
   "number-of-hands-since-last-played" for the or each particular role within a game. The value
35 of the "number-of-hands-since-last-played" variable for a particular role for a player-entry
   represents the number of hands in which that player-entry has participated since that player
   entry last assumed that particular role. When a new player-entry is created or instantiated for

   a particular game such as Hold 'Em, the lobby process 52 may set the value of a "number-of
   hands-since-last-played" variable for a particular role to a predetermined maximum value for
   that variable.
 5 After the user 16 has successfully logged in, the lobby process 52 presents the user 16 with
   an option to choose the type of game he wishes to play, and the user's access element 14
   may be connected to the software 64 of the chosen game which causes game information to
   be displayed at the user's access element 14. This information may be a summary listing the
   number of tables, players 16 and player-entries involved in that particular game.
10
   In a typical traditional online format, a list of active tables, some of which may have open
   seats, is displayed and a player 16 would need to select, or go to, a table screen depicting a
   table having an open seat in order to select an open seat at that table so that that player's
   player-entry may participate in a hand at that table.
15
   However, in the virtual table format according to embodiments of the invention, a player 16
   does not have to do this traditional table/seat selection because the tables are "transient". In
   particular, when a virtual table game player 16 selects a game to play, a player-entry for that
   player 16 and for that type of game may be created. One or more further player-entries for
20 that player 16 may be created if the player 16 wishes to participate in multiple hands of that
   game simultaneously - for example, the access element 14 may display a button to the player
   16 which, if selected, causes a new player-entry to be created for that player 16. When a
   player-entry is created, it may be placed in an idle player queue or list 66 and may then be
   automatically placed at, or assigned to, a table as described below. In some embodiments,
25 new players 16 may be able to view a table screen before deciding whether to play in that
   particular type of game. When a player 16 is presented with the table screen, the screen may
   display player-entries of other players 16 who may be accessing the gaming system 12
   through other access elements 14 from, for example, different geographic locations. In some
   cases, each player-entry may be identified by the respective login name of their associated
30 player 16. There may be an image of a stationary dealer at the table who deals but does not
   play.
   As a particular hand of play begins at a table, the cards may be dealt electronically. A
   randomizing algorithm may be used to shuffle the cards, so the play may be faster than a
35 normal manual game in which the cards must be physically shuffled. In some embodiments,
   an active player-entry (i.e. a player entry that is currently actively participating or playing in the
   hand at the table) may view or see his cards on a screen of his access element 14. The active

   player-entries take turns (usually in clockwise display order around the table) to act on the
   hand (e.g. by checking, folding, calling or raising). A player 16 may immediately decide, based
   on the cards dealt to his player-entry for this hand, whether to continue play, i.e. whether or
   not to remain participating in the hand. It is not typical for all players-entries playing a given
 5 dealt hand to stay to the end of the hand until a winner is determined. At a point of time after
   the hand is dealt, a player 16 may determine that he no longer wishes his player-entry to
   participate in this hand (e.g. if he considers that the cards dealt to his player-entry are
   insufficient to warrant playing further or if the current bet is too large for him). The player 16
   can then exercise an option for his player-entry to no longer play in this hand - this is typically
10 called "folding".
   Typically, once a player-entry folds, the associated player 16 must wait until the hand is
   played out (for example until a winner is determined) and then he may participate (via his
   player entry) in the next hand at the table. However, in particular embodiments, once a player
15 entry folds at a given table, the player entry may be moved to another table (e.g., a new group
   of player-entries) via a queue 66 or otherwise to participate in, or play, a new hand with the
   new group of player-entries without the folding player 16 having to wait until the end of the
   hand at the table at which his player-entry folded before continuing play. The new table may
   comprise other player-entries that have folded at the same or different tables, player-entries
20 that have finished out a hand at the same or different tables and/or new player-entries just
   beginning a gaming session. In some cases player-entries such as those who have just folded
   at a given table may be moved into a queue 66 by queue process 56 to wait until there are
   enough player-entries in the queue 66 to start a hand at a different table. Players 16 with
   player-entries in a queue 66 may be allowed to watch a hand at which they just folded while
25 waiting on a new table to form (e.g., while waiting on enough player-entries in the queue 66 to
   form a new table). When the queue 66 comprises enough player-entries to form a table with a
   desired (predetermined) number of players for the game associated with that table, the queue
   process 56 may assign player-entries to that table and display a new table screen for each
   player 16 showing their player-entry seated with other idled player-entries from the queue 66.
30 As will be described later, the queue process 56 may carry out alternative steps for assigning
   player-entries to tables.
   In particular embodiments, a player 16 with a player-entry in a queue 66 may not be able to
   see the queue 66 or any information associated with the queue 66, such as the location of
35 their player-entry in the queue 66 and the identification or number of other player-entries in
   the queue 66.

   As a general example in operation of queue process 56, figure 3 schematically illustrates a
   plurality of virtual tables 100-103 of the gaming system 12. The tables 100-102 each comprise
   a collection of player-entries actively playing a given poker game such as those mentioned
   above. The table 100 includes player-entries A-F, the table 101 includes the player-entries G
 5 L and the table 102 includes player-entries M-R. While six player-entries are illustrated as
   playing at each table 100-102, it should be understood that tables in various embodiments
   may include any suitable respective predetermined number of player-entries, and
   embodiments may include tables having different predetermined numbers of player-entries
   while still incorporating the functionality described herein.
10
   Assume for this example that hands are dealt at the tables 100-102. At the table 100 player
   entries A, C and D fold after reviewing their initial, dealt hand. Player-entries A, C and D may
   then be placed in a queue 110 to wait on enough additional player-entries to form another
   table. At the table 101 player entries K and L fold and are placed in the queue 110. At the
15 table 102 player entries M, N and R fold and are placed in the queue 110. Each of the above
   folds may occur at any suitable time, such as when the player-entry's turn to bet arises at the
   respective table. This folding may occur, for example, at any time during the current hand at
   the respective table. In some cases it may occur after multiple rounds of betting and after
   additional cards have been dealt in a hand.
20
   Thus, the queue 110 comprises player-entries A, C, D, K, L, M, N and R. For the purposes of
   this example, assume that this embodiment operates on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis.
   Therefore, if the player-entries folded and were placed in the queue 110 in the order illustrated
   (i.e. A, C, D, K, L, M, N and R) then they would be removed from the queue 110 to join
25 another table in that order. When player-entries are pulled from the queue to form a table,
   their game status may change from idle to active. Assume that a new table formed from those
   in the queue 110 also needs to comprise, according to the game options, 6 player-entries. As
   a result, player-entries A, C, D, K, L and M are joined together to play a new hand at the table
   103. Player-entries N and R may remain in the queue 110 to wait on enough additional player
30 entries to join another table.
   The remaining player-entries at tables 100, 101 and 102 may play out their respective hands.
   When a remaining player-entry from any of those tables folds, it may be placed in a queue,
   such as the queue 110 or a different queue, for joining another group of player-entries to play
35 a new hand. Once the outcomes of the respective hands at tables 100, 101, and 102 are
   determined, the player entries remaining at those tables may be joined at their tables by other
   player-entries from a queue or otherwise to play a new hand or they may be placed into a

   queue, such as the queue 110, for joining another group of player-entries to play a new hand.
   Particular embodiments may utilize any number of tables having any s suitable number of
   players at a given time. For example, with a large number of player-entries utilizing the
 5 gaming system 12, a large number of tables may be used. As indicated above, some tables
   may begin hands with different numbers of player-entries. Particular embodiments may also
   utilize any number of queues for holding any number of player-entries. Each queue may be
   designated to hold one or more respective categories of player-entries. In particular
   embodiments, the number of tables and queues may be set and changed dynamically as the
10 number of player-entries changes in order to provide action that reduces wait time for players
   16 so that the action and move to different tables appears almost seamless to the players 16.
   For example, a player-entry that has just folded or otherwise completed a hand at one table
   may be moved to a new table. To the associated player 16, the move to the new table may
   appear almost seamless even though gaming system 12 may have actually placed the player
15 entry in a queue and pulled the player-entry from the queue for placement at or assignment to
   the new table according to the queue and seating processes 54, 56 of the gaming system 12.
   In some cases the gaming system 12 may not notify the player 16 that his player-entry was
   actually in a queue waiting on a new table to be formed.
20 In some embodiments the selection of which of a group of different tables to move the player
   entry to may be made randomly or using any desired criteria. However, it is clearly desirable
   to avoid the situation in which a player may have multiple player-entries assigned to the same
   table, as this would give that player an unfair advantage over other players with player-entries
   assigned to that table. Hence, the queue process 56 in embodiments of the invention does not
25 assign multiple player-entries of a player to a single table.
   Player-entries may be pulled from queues in any desired order, such as FIFO or in another
   desired manner. For example, player-entries having a higher priority with the gaming system
   12 (e.g., as determined by play, bankroll, payment or otherwise) may be pulled from a queue
30 to join a new table before another player-entry having a lower priority. In addition, the pulling
   of player entries from queues may be done strategically by the gaming system 12 to achieve
   desired outcomes (e.g., to speed up or slow down certain players 16). In some cases player
   entries may be pulled from the queue in random order.
35 In some games such as "Hold 'Em" and other poker games, the location of a player-entry at a
   table with respect to the "button" is important for a given hand. The button typically rotates one
   slot around the table for each hand, typically in the same direction as the betting direction.

   When in a given game a player-entry is identified as a dealer and such identification rotates
   through the player-entries, the button typically corresponds to the player-entry identified as the
   dealer. The player-entry to the left of the dealer or button generally bets first for a hand in a
   given round of betting, and betting typically moves in a clockwise direction. Each round of
 5 betting for a given hand proceeds in a similar manner. Thus, the player entry on the button or
   dealer's seat typically has an advantage, because that player-entry acts last on a given round
   of betting, after the other player-entries have taken their turn.
   In some games such as "Hold 'Em", seat one, just to the left of the dealer or button, is referred
10 to as the small blind, and seat two, just to the left of seat one, is referred to as the big blind.
   These blind seats are treated differently from the rest of the seats, because the blinds have to
   ante before they are dealt their first cards. The player-entries in seats three through the last
   seat at the table, referred to as the dealer's button, may fold without anteing after they have
   seen their initial cards. The big blind ante is more of a disadvantage because it is larger than
15 (e.g., normally twice the size of) the small blind ante. In some poker games, when a player 16
   plays his first hand, he has to ante the same amount as the big blind. Putting up an ante equal
   the big blind may be is called "posting," which is similar to an entry fee to the game.
   Thus, being situated one spot or two spots to the left of the dealer or button may be a
20 disadvantage for a given hand since player-entries may have to bet without having seen their
   cards. As suggested above, the further away a player-entry is located from the left of the
   dealer or button when betting proceeds in a clockwise direction then the greater the
   advantage for a given hand.
25 In particular embodiments the seat location with respect to a dealer or button of folding player
   entries placed in a queue is associated with those player entries so that it can be used, for
   example by seating process 54, when placing the player-entries at a new table. As mentioned
   above, the memory 60 may store a "projected-next-seat-number" variable or indicator that is
   associated with a player-entry, or some similar identifier associated with the player-entry in
30 the queue. The memory 60 may also store, for example, a "has-played" variable or similar
   indicator that is associated with a player-entry to indicate which locations that player-entry has
   already played (e.g., has played big blind, has played small blind, has played big blind and
   small blind, etc.). For example, if a player-entry that has just folded from the dealer or button
   position at a table is placed into a queue 66, then the gaming system 12 may place that
35 player-entry at a new table for a new hand at a location that is just to the left of the dealer or
   button at the new table. Similarly, a folding play-entry that has just posted the big blind ante
   before folding at a previous table may be placed at a new table at the small blind location for

   the next hand. A player-entry may not always be placed at a new table at a location one spot
   over from the player-entry's previous location at a previous table at which that player-entry
   just folded. Gaming system 12 may implement any suitable methods, procedures or seating
    processes for locating folding player-entries at new tables. For example, in some cases the
 5 gaming system 12 may utilize circumstances other than a player-entry's previous location at a
    previous table when determining where to place the player-entry at a new table.
    In particular embodiments, to provide continuity from hand to hand, each player's screen
   display of the current table for one of their player-entries may have the seats rotated so that
10 that player-entry always appears at the same physical location on his table screen. This seat
    rotation function could be executed at the gaming system 12 like other functionality discussed
    herein, or at the player's access element 14.
    In particular circumstances, situations may arise where several player entries may be in the
15 queue having the same value for their "projected-next-seat number" variable. Any suitable
    method may be used to determine which player entry is granted or assigned the projected
    next seat number held by those multiple player-entries. For instance, if several idled player
   entries came from seat four at different tables and they were queued to be seated in seat
    number three, then in some cases a FIFO based seating algorithm may be used. A timestamp
20 associated with the player-entry in the queue may be used to resolve contention issues. For
   example, if two player-entries have the same "projected next-seat-number" variable, with
   other factors being equal, if the seating takes place clockwise from the earliest seats, the
    player-entry with the earliest timestamp may be assigned the open seat, and the other player
   entry may wind up at a subsequently assigned seat. The timestamp may also be used to
25 condition selections, such as to give a new player-entry more of an opportunity to first play the
    big blind. For instance, setting a new player-entry's timestamp to represent a date several
    months before the actual game date may cause his entry to be selected prior to already active
    player-entries.
30  Particular embodiments may utilize similar or other methods or factors in seating players. An
   example of one seating process 54 that may be used that includes some of the functionality
   discussed above follows. For example, when a player-entry folds or finishes an active hand, if
   the player-entry has finished playing one of the blind seats, a "has-played" variable
   corresponding to the blind seat played may be set in the player-entry record in that player's
35  player account. If a player-entry has just played the big blind, a "has-played-big-blind" variable
   of that player-entry will be set. The "has-played-small-blind" variable of a player entry may be
   set when seat one is played by that player-entry. These variables may be used to reduce the

   possibility that a player-entry will replay either blind. These variables may be maintained, for
   example in memory 60, as components associated with the player account and the queue.
   Continuing the example, the gaming system 12 may decrement a projected-next-seat-n
 5 umber variable for a player-entry. If the projected-next seat-number variable goes to zero, it
   may be reset to the highest seat number, or the button seat, and any "has-played" variables of
   that player-entry may be reset. Having the projected-next-seat-number variable set to the
   button seat represents a restarting of the seating process for the player-entry. When the
   queue includes a sufficient number of idled player-entries to constitute a new table, an
10 evaluation process may be used to seat the big blind before seating the small blind. Blind
   selections may be by lowest projected-next-seat-number variable with the earliest timestamp
   for player-entries who do not have a has-played variable set for the respective blind. As
   indicated above, having a has-played variable set for a particular location may mean that the
   player-entry has played or has recently played that location. In a case where all queued
15 player-entries have their has played-big-blind variable set, the system may have to seat the
   earliest player entry regardless.
   Continuing the example, after both blinds are seated, a similar evaluation process may be
   used to seat the button seat signifying that the button holds some seating distinction when
20 compared to the remaining seats. Similar to the has-played blind variables, a has-played
   button variable may be associated with a player-entry and this may be used to distinguish if a
   player-entry has had the opportunity to play the button. The player-entry with the lowest seat
   number, earliest timestamp and without the has-played-button variable set may be assigned
   the button seat. The has-played-button variable may be reset when a player-entry's projected
25 next-seat-number variable becomes the button seat. If all player-entries have already played
   the button and have their has-played button variable set, then the player-entry with the highest
   projected-next-seat number variable and most current timestamp may be seated at the button
   seat.
30 The assignment of the remaining seats, from seat three clockwise to the seat before the
   button, may be like that of the blinds, using the lowest projected next-seat-number variable
   with the earliest timestamp.
   As indicated above, some games provided by the gaming system 12 may not have the
35 concept of pre-defined blinds or the button. For example, in seven card stud, all player-entries
   ante the same amount, and on the first betting round the player-entry with the lowest face
   card is treated like seat one. The player entry with the low face card must bet either a small

   ante or a big ante amount, and then player-entry responses rotate clockwise from his seat. In
   this case, player-entries may be seated similar to the rules used for non-blind seats, where
   player-entries are seated clockwise using the lowest projected-next-seat-number variable with
   the earliest timestamp. Exceptions for the blinds and the button, such as the has-played
 5 variables, may not be utilized in some embodiments.
   In some traditional games, if a player sits out for a couple of rounds of play, he is not
   penalized. If he attempts to sit out longer, his chips may be removed from the table, and a
   new player may be seated in his place. Then, when the first player returns and reenters the
10 game, he has to again post the big blind. In particular embodiments, however, there is no
   concept of sitting out of a hand, because player-entries that are taking a break (known as
   paused player entries) do not appear at a permanent table. Therefore, a returning virtual table
   player-entry with an existing player account 62 in the memory 60 may be seated just as if it
   had remained active. That player-entry may not be required to post the big blind because
15 information such as its projected-next-seat-number variable may be stored to be used in
   seating that player-entry at a new table. In some cases no changes are made to the variables
   and indicators in the player account, and the lobby process 52 may insert an entry for that
   player-entry in a queue 66.
20 Particular embodiments thus provide seating processes and algorithms that are simple,
   flexible, and robust. Given fair and robust as a general seating criteria, more than one
   algorithm exists which would yield satisfactory seating results. For example, in particular
   embodiments for each player-entry a count of how many times that player-entry has played a
   particular seat may be kept with the timestamp of the last time that player-entry played the
25 seat. Whenever the minimum value of these player-entry seat-counts exceeds zero, they may
   be reduced by the minimum count so as to base the counts to zero. Then, selecting from high
   seat to low, the lowest seat count with the earliest timestamp may be used to seat player
   entries. This method comprises another fair and robust algorithm that may be used in
   particular embodiments.
30
   In general, the ability to move folding player-entries into an idle player queue 66 for
   subsequent placement in, or assignment to, a new table gives designers unique options to
   use software techniques to enhance the quality of the action. In some cases a player-entry
   may be allowed to fold out of turn, i.e. before it is that player-entry's next turn to act in that
35 game (by betting, calling, folding or checking in the current betting round). A player-entry that
   folds out of turn may immediately go into another hand, i.e. be assigned to another table so as
   to participate in another hand at that table. When a player-entry folds out of turn, that player-

   entry may be inserted in a queue 66. To avoid other player participating at the old and new
   tables detecting this, the system may disguise (e.g., at player access elements 14) the player
   entry's name or other identifier and money or points amounts at the new table while the
   player-entry still appears to be active at his prior table, waiting his turn to fold (although that
 5 player-entry is no longer participating in that hand). Other methods of avoiding player-entries
   from detecting out of turn folds are described later.
   As an example, if the gaming system 12 is waiting for a response from a player-entry at seat
   three, if a player-entry in seat nine elected to fold out of turn, the queue process 56 may
10 immediately put that player-entry in a queue 66. From there the player-entry may be assigned
   a seat at another table. Since the original seat may still appear to be active, to keep player
   entries that are viewing multiple different screens from knowing that a particular player-entry
   has folded early, the early folding player-entry game name and the amount of money or points
   of that early folding player-entry may be temporarily changed at the new table. Other methods
15 of avoiding player-entries from detecting out of turn folds are described later.
   In addition, when a player-entry is moved or assigned to another table (for example, after
   folding or otherwise completing a hand at a previous table), the player-entry's name or other
   identity presented for view by other players 16 may change. For example, a player-entry may
20 be playing as "Charlie" at one table and may fold. The gaming system 12 may send or assign
   the player-entry to another table (for example through a queue process 56 in some cases). At
   the new table, the gaming system 12 may display another name for the player-entry, s such
   as "Bill" or "Ed" or "Alan". Changing player-entries' display names when they change tables
   makes it less likely that players 16 can determine the true identity of the player-entry with the
25 changed name. This can reduce the chance that other players 16 can learn another player's
   playing style.
   As described herein, particular embodiments provide the positive consequences of
   seamlessly increasing the action. In particular embodiments when the number of player
30 entries for a particular game is very small (e.g., between two and four), locating folding player
   entries at a new table may be of less benefit. At a level of five players, however, three people
   could be seated at a new table. As the number of player-entries increases, the number of
   seats can is be ramped up to an optimum number. For example, no-limit Hold 'Em is generally
   played with nine players-entries. When there are seven player-entries, four could be seated at
35 a table in order to provide the ability to move player entries to a queue 66 for placement at a
   different table upon folding. With nine player-entries, five could be seated. At eleven player
   entries, six could be seated. This could continue until seventeen player-entries are

   participating, and then the seating could be set to the maximum of nine. Conversely, when the
   number of player-entries falls into the low ranges, the maximum seating may be ramped down
   in order to keep providing the functionality described herein.
 5 The methods discussed herein are ideal for large multi-table tournaments because they may
   greatly speed up the action. Since some players 16 attempt to play slower in tournaments in
   order to survive longer, in order to balance out the number of hands played by each player
   entry, the gaming system 12 may force faster player-entries to wait for the completion of
   hands. For example, faster player-entries may have to wait for completion of a hand at their
10 current table upon folding instead of being sent to a queue 66 for placement at a new table. In
   addition, the faster player-entries may be pulled from an idle player queue 66 more slowly
   than other player-entries in an effort to slow down the faster player entries. Slowing down
   faster player-entries may be used in conjunction with a penalty for slower player-entries. The
   total amount of money anted as blinds by each player-entry may also be used to help
15 determine which player-entries may need to be slowed down or sped up.
   With respect to some games, seating methods discussed herein may reduce the need for
   certain graphic displays and may simplify a lobby screen. For example, since player-entries at
   tables may change constantly, there may be no permanent tables to be displayed in some
20 embodiments, and a player-entry does not have to wait and/or contend for a seat at a table.
   For example, in some embodiments when a player 16 selects a game type, instead of being
   displayed a list of tables, he may automatically be seated when his player-entry becomes
   active in the queue 66.
25 In particular embodiments, players 16 have less of an opportunity to is become familiar with
   the style or characteristics of play of the other players 16 as may be the case with other,
   traditional games in which players 16 play multiple hands at the same table. Players 16 may
   not be able to "read" or get "tells" as to whether a player 16 is a good or poor player. They will
   not have a mental history in order to know if the player 16 is an aggressive bettor or a
30 conservative caller. This will take away a huge advantage of many great players. To reduce
   the effect of this disadvantage, some embodiments may display information to help define a
   player's skill level.
   As an additional advantage, particular functionality discussed herein allows dealer's choice
35 games to occur more efficiently. Frequently dealer's choice games are played in home poker
   games. One player may choose to deal Hold 'Em, another player may choose to deal Omaha
   High and still another player may deal Seven Card Stud. Since the maximum seating for

   Seven Card Stud is eight players, if the number of players is greater than eight, then Seven
   Card Stud cannot be dealt without having one player sit out of the hand. The same may be
   true for traditional online poker games. However, in embodiments discussed herein, the
   maximum size of the table may not be a restraint allowing a "dealer" player-entry to choose
 5 any suitable game. Since gaming system 12 may control the seating of player-entries (for
   example, from a queue 66), player entries may be seated at various sized seating
   arrangements to satisfy a particular requirement for a game chosen by a dealer player-entry.
   In a related situation, some online poker games seat the same type of game differently. For
10 instance, one site may seat no-limit Hold 'Em with nine player-entries, and another may seat it
   with ten player-entries. Using the functionality described herein, the gaming system 12 may
   offer a dealer's choice where the dealer player-entry has the option to establish the seating
   differently for a particular type of game, such as no-limit Hold 'Em. For example, a player entry
   identified as the dealer may select a game to play as well as a number of players for the
15 game. The queue can then fill the table with waiting player-entries according to the number of
   players preferred by the "dealer".
   As indicated above, the gaming system 12 may keep game and player is records and history.
   The play review process 58 allows a player 16 to go back and see how one or more particular
20 hands were played. These hands may include hands that the player 16 was involved in or
   hands of other players 16. The history data 70 may store data about the relevant game play
   information to make this possible. A player 16 of a player-entry that just folded or otherwise
   completed a hand may be allowed to go back and review that hand. In particular
   embodiments, the gaming system 12 may allow the player 16 to see the cards of all other
25 players 16 in the hand to see their playing style. While allowing a player 16 to view other
   player's actual play may not be advantageous in traditional card games, the functionality of
   particular embodiments to move player-entries across tables to play with a multitude of player
   entries in a given session may make it less likely that the reviewing player 16 obtains any
   advantage over the player 16 whose play was reviewed. In some cases the gaming system
30 12, for example through the queue process 56 and/or the seating process 54, may ensure that
   player-entries of those two players 16 are not placed at the same table in the future. In
   addition, changing a player's screen name or identity across sessions or tables also may
   reduce or eliminate any advantage to be gained by a reviewing player 16 on a player 16
   whose hands are reviewed. Moreover, gaming system may associate an alias with a player 16
35 whose play is being reviewed.
   In some cases gaming system 12 may associate a skill level with players whose play is being

   reviewed. For example, a novice player may desire to view play of a highly skilled or "expert"
   player. Gaming system 12 may present historical hands played by highly skilled or expert
   players for view by the novice player.
 5 In some embodiments players 16 may be able to view historical hands played at any point in
   time. This would be inefficient in games where everyone sits and plays at the same table
   because the other players 16 at the table may not want to wait while one player 16 is
   reviewing historical hands. Moving player entries across tables however enables a player 16
   to stop playing and view historical hands or perform other tasks. For example, after folding or
10 otherwise completing a hand a player 16 may elect to review hands or other information
   provided by gaming system 12 instead of having his player-entry immediately join another
   table or be placed into a queue 66 to join another table. In some embodiments an active
   player 12 may be able to review historical hands or other gaming system information while
   playing, or he may also do this while in a paused state. When a player 12 decides to sit out of
15 a hand and go to the paused state, in some embodiments he will not be shown as "sitting out"
   at a table because his player-entries will not appear at any tables, and a seat will not be
   assigned to his player-entries until he returns to the game.
   In particular embodiments the gaming system 12 may provide players 16 with the ability to
20 report other players 16 as possibly cheating. Allowing a player 16 to go back and review a
   hand that was played while viewing each player entries' cards may facilitate the identification
   of cheating play on the part of one or more players 16 who were playing the hand. Once the
   gaming system 12 receives a report of a possible cheating player 16 or incident, it may
   automatically or through associated personnel review the play to take appropriate action.
25
   Figure 4 is a flowchart schematically illustrating a method for computer gaming, in accordance
   with a particular embodiment. The method begins at a step 200 where a first table of a first
   group of player-entries is provided to play a first hand of a game, such as a poker game. In
   particular embodiments, each of the players associated with the first group of player-entries
30 may be accessing the gaming system 12 over one or more communication networks 22. At a
   step 202, one or more cards are provided to each of the first group of player-entries for the
   first hand. The cards may be dealt by the gaming system 12 randomly in some embodiments.
   At a step 204 a request is received from a first player-entry (associated with a first player 16)
35 of the first group of player-entries to fold the one or more cards of the first player-entry. This
   request may be received, for example, by the first player 16 transmitting a fold request using
   an access element 14 associated with the first player 16. In some cases the first player 16

   may transmit instructions regarding how to play various hands to the gaming system 12 (e.g.,
   before game play in some situations). Thus, the request to fold in various situations may be
   encompassed in these instructions, and the gaming system 12 may follow these instructions
   to fold the first player-entry's one or more cards in applicable circumstances. In particular
 5 cases the first player-entry may be folding at step 204 well into a hand after one or more
   rounds of betting, such as after the flop or river card in Hold 'Em.
   At a step 206, the first player-entry is automatically moved to a queue 66 comprising
   additional player-entries. For example, in response to the folding the first player-entry may be
10 moved to a queue 66 so that the first player-entry may be joined with other player-entries at a
   new table to play a new hand without having to wait on the conclusion of the first hand at the
   first table. This may be performed without a specific user request at that time to move to a
   new table. In some cases the gaming system 12 may prompt the first player when the first
   player-entry folds whether he wants to move the first player-entry to a new table to play a new
15 hand without waiting on the conclusion of the first hand at the first table.
   At a step 208, an order is determined according to which current player entries in the queue
   66 will be pulled to move to (or be assigned to) a second table to play a second hand. The
   determined order may comprise any suitable order, such as a FIFO order. In some cases,
20 player-entries may be pulled according to a priority associated with gaming system 12 (e.g.,
   higher wagering player-entries may be pulled first). In some cases player-entries may be
   pulled according to seat location. For example, if it is desired that a given player-entry sits at a
   particular location at a new table, then that player-entry may be pulled to sit at such location at
   the new table before another player-entry who is associated with a next seat location that has
25 already been assigned at the new table.
   At a step 210, the seat location of the first player-entry for the second table is determined
   based on seat locations of the first player-entry in previous hands played. For example, if the
   first player-entry just played at the big blind spot in Hold 'Em at the first table, then the seat
30 location for the first player-entry at the is second table may be determined to exclude the big
   blind spot.
   At a step 212, the first player-entry is automatically moved from the queue 66 to the second
   table to play the second hand. One or more other player-entries at the second table may be
35 different from those player-entries that were at the first table with the first player-entry. The
   movement to the second table may occur without specific user request at that time. In some
   cases, the first player 16 may not even know that the first player-entry spent time in the queue

   66. In addition, this movement from the first table to the second table may appear seamless.
   Some of the steps illustrated in the flowchart of figure 4 may be combined, modified or deleted
   where appropriate, and additional steps may also be added to the flowchart. Additionally,
 5 steps may be performed in any suitable order without departing from the scope of the
   invention.
   Described below with reference to figures 5 and 6 is a preferred embodiment for assigning (or
   allocating or moving) player-entries of a plurality of players to respective tables from a plurality
10 of tables, i.e. for selecting which player-entries should participate in a hand of a game at a
   particular table. This embodiment is particularly suited to electronic card games in which a
   player-entry that is actively participating in a hand of the game may fold out of turn from that
   hand so as to no longer be actively participating in that hand (as has been described above).
   A few preliminary observations are worth making first, though.
15
   A game may be defined by both (a) a game genre or class (such as Hold 'Em, Omaha,
   Omaha Hi-Low, Seven Card Stud and Seven Card Stud Hi-Low), which may also include, for
   example, the rules of the game and (b) a game configuration (or options set for that game),
   such as the number of player-entries required for participating in a hand of that game, the
20 values of any blinds used in that game, whether that game is a no-limit game, a pot-limit
   game, or a fixed-limit game, etc.
   The gaming system 12 may make available one or more types of game, so that a player can
   choose the type of game he wishes to participate in (e.g. via the lobby process 52 as has
25 been described above). The gaming system 12 makes is available one or more tables
   associated with each type of game. A player 16 wishing to participate in a hand of a particular
   card game may then have a player entry assigned to a table associated with that particular
   card game so that that player-entry can participate in a hand of that particular card game at
   that table. When that table has the sufficient/required number of player-entries assigned for
30 participating in a hand of that particular card game (i.e. a threshold number of player-entries
   as may be specified by the game configuration/options), then the gaming system 12 makes
   that table an "active table", so that the group of those assigned player-entries then actively
   participate in a hand of that particular card game at that table.
35 A table that is not an active table is an "inactive table". The gaming system 12 may make an
   active table inactive when the hand being played at that table comes to a conclusion - any
   player-entries still assigned to that table at the conclusion of the hand are then no longer

   assigned to that table. An inactive table may have zero or more player-entries assigned to it,
   but will have fewer than the threshold number of player-entries required for participating in a
   hand of the card game associated with that table.
 5 A player-entry is initially assigned to an inactive table. A player-entry that has been assigned
   to an inactive table is, in general, an "idle" player-entry (i.e. that player-entry is not currently
   actively participating in a hand, but would like to be participating in a hand). However, it is
   worth noting that a player-entry may be idle but may currently not be assigned to a table, for
   example if that player-entry has just folded from a hand, or if the hand in which that player
10 entry has been participating has just come to a conclusion. A player-entry may be "paused"
   (instead of being "idle") if that player-entry is not currently actively participating in a hand and
   the player 16 associated with that player-entry would not like that player-entry to be
   participating in a hand (e.g. if that player 16 would like to take a break or would like to review
   play history instead of playing a hand). Naturally, the methods described below only try to
15 assign idle player-entries and do not try to assign paused player-entries.
   Figure 5 is a flowchart schematically illustrating the steps of a task 500 for assigning player
   entries that are not currently assigned to a table to respective inactive tables. This task 500
   may be performed by the queue process 56 (which may also be referred to as an "assignment
20 process") executing on the gaming system 12. The queue process 56 may perform the task
   500 separately for the or each particular type of game currently being supported by and
   provided by the gaming system 12, so that the task 500 performed for a particular type game
   is performed with respect to (a) player-entries wishing to participate in a hand of that particular
   type of game and (b) one or more tables associated with that particular type of game. In one
25 embodiment, the assignment process performs the task(s) 500 periodically, such as at every
   time-point in a series or sequence of time-points. These time-points may be separated by a
   predetermined time interval, such as 100 ms, so that the assignment process carries out the
   task(s) 500 every 100 ms. Thus, the gaming system 12 may comprise a clock which the
   assignment process monitors to detect when a next time-point has occurred so that it can
30 carry out the task(s) 500. It will be appreciated that other predetermined time intervals may be
   used instead. Hence, the assignment process attempts, at each time-point (e.g. every 100
   ms) to assign currently unassigned player-entries to respective inactive tables.
   A task 500 begins at a step 502 at which a list of currently unassigned idle player-entries is
35 determined. There will be a plurality of players 16, each having one or more respective player
   entries for participating in a respective hand of the card game associated with the present task
   500. The list of unassigned idle player-entries determined at the step 502 then identifies each

   (idle) player-entry of this plurality of player-entries that is not currently assigned to a table.
   It will be appreciated that this list may be freshly generated at the step 502. This list may be
   maintained and updated between the time-points (e.g. when a player-entry ceases to be
 5 associated with a table, it may become idle and may be added to the list) so that a current up
   to-date list is already available when the task 500 begins (in which case the step 502 may be
   omitted). The list may be one of the lists/queues 66. Embodiments of the invention may make
   use of any method for creating and/or maintaining this list of currently unassigned idle player
   entries.
10
   In some embodiments, this list of player-entries may be an ordered list so that the task 500
   will process the player-entries in this list according to the ordering of the list. Various ordering
   methods may be used.
15 The step 502 may therefore involve actively ordering the list of player entries according to the
   desired ordering for the list. However, in some embodiments, the generation and/or
   maintenance and/or updating of the list of player-entries may involve ensuring that a player
   entry added to the list is placed at the correct point in the list according to the desired
   ordering, so that no actual step of actively ordering the list of player-entries is required.
20 Moreover, some embodiments, whilst making use of an ordering for the list of player-entries,
   may not actively order the list but may simply, at a step 508 to be described below, determine
   which player-entry should be selected next based on the desired ordering.
   In one embodiment, the desired ordering for this list of currently unassigned idle player-entries
25 may be as follows:
             (a) ordered firstly, so that player-entries that folded out of turn from the hand in which
            those player-entries most recently participated occur later in the list (or are to be
            selected for processing later) than player-entries that did not fold out of turn from the
             hand in which those player-entries most recently participated; and
30           (b) ordered secondly, based on whether a player-entry is the n-th player entry of the
            associated player 16.
   For example, assume that:
        "   there are four players A, B, C and D;
35      *    player A has 3 idle unassigned player-entries Al, A2 and A3;
        e    player B has 2 idle unassigned player-entries B1 and B2;
             player C has 1 idle unassigned player-entry Cl;

        "   player D has 2 idle unassigned player-entries D1 and D2;
        "   player-entries A2, B1 and D2 are the player-entries that folded out of turn from the
            respective hands in which they most recently participated.
 5 Then the ordering for the list of currently unassigned idle player-entries may be as follows: Al,
   C1, D1, B2, A3, B1, A2, D2. The use of criteria (a) above helps ensure that player-entries less
   likely to have fewer assignment constraints with respect to other players 16 or player-entries
   (see later) are assigned to respective tables first, which will improve the likelihood that a table
   will have assigned to it the required threshold number of player-entries for participating in a
10 hand of the card game associated with that table, so that it can be completed and become an
   active table. The use of criteria (b) above helps ensure that players 16 with fewer player
   entries are not delayed too long in having their player-entries assigned relative to a player 16
   having more player-entries. For example, a player 16 having a single player-entry should not
   have the assignment of that single player entry delayed or penalised by trying to first assign
15 multiple player-entries of another player.
   At a step 504 a list of currently inactive tables is determined. It will be appreciated that this list
   may be freshly generated at the step 504 or may be maintained between the time-points (e.g.
   as player-entries cease to be associated with a table) so that a current up-to-date list is
20 already available when the task 500 begins (in which case the step 504 may be omitted). The
   list of currently inactive tables may form part of the table data 67. Embodiments of the
   invention may make use of any method for creating and/or maintaining this list of inactive
   tables.
25 In some embodiments, the list of inactive tables may be an ordered list so that the task 500
   will process the inactive tables in this list according to the ordering of the list. Various ordering
   methods may be used.
   The step 504 may therefore involve actively ordering the list of inactive tables. However, in
30 some embodiments, the generation and/or maintenance and/or updating of the list of inactive
   tables may involve ensuring that an inactive table added to the list is placed at the correct
   point in the list according to the desired ordering, so that no actual step of actively ordering
   the list of inactive is tables is required. Moreover, some embodiments, whilst making use of an
   ordering for the list of inactive tables, may not actively order the list but may simply, at a step
35 510 to be described below, determine which inactive tables should be selected next based on
   the desired ordering.

   In one embodiment, the desired ordering for this list of currently inactive tables is based on
   the number of player-entries currently assigned to those tables, so that a first inactive table
   with more assigned player-entries than a second inactive table occurs earlier in the ordering
   for the list of currently inactive tables than the second inactive table. The desired ordering for
 5 this list of currently inactive tables may be based on the number of player-entries that need to
   be assigned to those tables in order to become active tables, so that a first inactive table
   needing fewer player-entries to be assigned to it to become active than a second inactive
   table occurs earlier in the ordering for the list of currently inactive tables than the second
   inactive table. These two orderings help ensure that a currently inactive table is completed
10 and made active as quickly as possible.
   At a step 506, a list of "constraints" is determined or generated. It will be appreciated that if a
   particular game allows a player-entry that is actively participating in a hand of that game to
   fold out of turn from that hand so as to no longer be actively participating in that hand, then it
15 is important to make sure that a player 16 with a player-entry still actively participating in that
   hand does not know of the occurrence of an out of turn fold (as otherwise he may be placed in
   a position in which he has an unfair advantage over other players 16). Thus, the task 500
   caters for situations in which an out of turn fold has occurred. The task 500 therefore aims to
   maintain the integrity of the game play provided by the gaming system whilst allowing players
20 16 to play more hands of a game in a given period of time (by virtue of being able to fold out
   of turn).
   As a first example, suppose there is a first table at which two players A and B have respective
   player-entries Al and B1 actively participating in a hand at that first table. Suppose that player
25 B also has a second player-entry B2 assigned to a second table. Then, if player-entry Al folds
   out of turn, player entry Al should not be assigned to that second table, since player B may
   then be able to deduce (by virtue of seeing player-entry Al participating in a hand at the
   second table in which his second player-entry B2 is also participating) that player entry Al had
   folded out of turn. In other words, the assignment of player-entry Al to the second table could
30 in itself provide player B with additional/further information about the hand in which player
   entry B1 is actively participating at the first table, wherein this additional information is
   information about the hand at the first table that would not be available to player B only by
   virtue of his first player entry B1 participating in the hand at the first table. Player B should not
   be able to deduce anything further about the hand at the first table other than what he could
35 deduce alone by virtue of the participation of player-entry B1 in that hand. Hence, the
   assignment of player-entry Al to the second table should be avoided.

   For any such situation as this, the list of constraints includes a constraint entry that indicates
   that an inactive table should not have assigned to it both player-entry Al and any player-entry
   of player B or, in one particular embodiment, an entry that indicates that player-entry Al should
   not be assigned to a table to which any player-entry of player B is currently assigned.
 5
   As a second example, suppose that there is a first table at which two players A and B have
   respective player-entries Al and B1 actively participating in s a hand at that first table.
   Suppose that player-entry Al folds out of turn and is then assigned to a second (inactive)
   table. Suppose also that player B has an idle unassigned second player-entry B2. Then B2
10 should not be assigned to the second table, since player B may then be able to deduce (by
   virtue of seeing player-entry Al participating in a hand at the second table in which his second
   player-entry B2 is also participating) that player-entry Al has folded out of turn. In other words,
   the assignment of player-entry B2 to the second table could in itself provide player B with
   additional/further information about the hand in which player-entry B1 is actively participating
15 at the first table, wherein this additional information is information about the hand at the first
   table that would not be available to player B only by virtue of his first player-entry B1
   participating in the hand at the first table. Player B should not be able to deduce anything
   further about the hand at the first table other than what he could deduce alone by virtue of the
   participation of player-entry B1 in that hand. Hence, the assignment of player-entry B2 to the
20 second table should be avoided.
   For any such situation as this, the list of constraints includes a constraint entry that indicates
   that an inactive table should not have assigned to it both player-entry Al and any player-entry
   of player B or, in one particular embodiment, an entry that indicates that no player-entry of
25 player B may be assigned to a table to which player-entry Al is currently assigned.
   Hence, at the step 506, a list of constraints on the assignment of any currently unassigned
   (and idle) player-entries is generated. This is done prior to the subsequent steps 508 and 510
   at which a suitable table is identified for a selected player-entry and at which that selected
30 player-entry is assigned to that identified table. This provides an advantage in terms of
   reducing the processing time required to carry out the task 500 as all of the constraints on
   player-entry assignment are determined once at the outset of the task 500 and do not need to
   be regenerated for multiple player-entries and/or multiple tables. It will be appreciated, though,
   that in some embodiments of the invention, the step 506 may be omitted.
35
   At a step 508, a next player-entry (or, the first time that the step 508 is performed, the first
   player-entry) from the list of unassigned idle player-entries determined at the step 502 is

   selected. If this list is ordered or has an associated ordering, then the next player-entry is
   selected according to that ordering for the list.
   At a step 510, the selected player-entry is assigned to one of the inactive tables. In particular,
 5 the tables in the inactive table list determined at the step 504 are assessed. If this list is
   ordered or has an associated ordering, then the tables are assessed sequentially in the
   ordering for the list.
   Assessing a table comprises determining or identifying whether that inactive table is an
10 "assignable table" for the selected player-entry. Here, a table is an "assignable table" for a
   particular player-entry if the assignment of that particular player-entry to that table cannot itself
   provide any player with further information about a hand in which an already assigned player
   entry of that player is actively participating in addition to information about that hand that is
   available to that player only by virtue of the participation of that already assigned player entry
15 in that hand. In other words, a table is an "assignable table" for a particular player-entry if that
   player-entry may be assigned to that table without compromising the integrity or fairness of
   the game being provided by the gaming system 12.
   To make the assessment of whether an inactive table is an assignable table for the selected
20 player-entry, the list of constraints may be checked to see whether there are any constraint
   entries in the list of constraints that would prohibit the assignment of the selected player-entry
   to that table - if there are no such prohibiting constraint entries then that table is an assignable
   table for the selected player entry; otherwise, that table is not an assignable table for the
   selected player entry.
25
   Identifying whether an inactive table is an assignable table for the selected player-entry may
   therefore involve: if that selected player-entry folded out of turn from the hand that that
   selected player-entry most recently participated in, determining that a particular table is not an
   assignable table for the selected player-entry if there is a second player that has a player
30 entry still actively participating in the hand that the selected player-entry most recently
   participated in and that also has a player-entry assigned to that particular table.
   Identifying whether an inactive table is an assignable table for the selected player-entry may
   therefore additionally or alternatively involve: if there is a particular table to which a further
35 player-entry has been assigned and this further player-entry folded out of turn from the hand
   that the further player-entry most recently participated in, determining that this particular table
   is not an assignable table for the selected player-entry if the player of the selected player-

   entry also has a second player-entry still actively participating in the hand that the further
   player-entry most recently participated in.
   If it is determined that the inactive table currently being assessed is not an assignable table
 5 for the selected player-entry, then the step 510 moves on to assess the next inactive table in
   the list of inactive tables - if no such next inactive table exists then a new inactive table is
   created (having no currently assigned player-entries) and the selected player-entry is
   assigned to that newly created inactive table. If it is determined that the inactive table currently
   being assessed is an assignable table for the selected player-entry, then the step 510 assigns
10 the selected player-entry to that table - if that table then has assigned to it the number of
   player-entries required for participating in a hand at that table, then that table is made active
   and is removed from the list of inactive tables.
   The above determination steps may be based on, or use, the table of constraints generated at
15 the step 506. If this step 506 is omitted, then the above determination steps may be carried
   out by checking for any such assignment constraints whenever a table has to be assessed for
   a selected player-entry.
   Once an assignable table has been identified for the selected player-entry, then that player
20 entry is assigned to the identified assignable table. If none of the currently inactive tables is an
   assignable table for the selected player-entry, then the assignment process may add or create
   a new table for playing the game associated with the current task 500. This newly created
   table will initially have no player-entries assigned to it and may therefore be added to the list
   of inactive tables. This newly created table may then be identified as the table to which the
25 selected player-entry should be assigned, with the selected player-entry then being assigned
   to that newly created table.
   At a step 512, it is determined whether or not there is another player-entry in the list of
   unassigned player-entries. If there is another player-entry in the list of unassigned player
30 entries, then processing returns to the step 508; otherwise, processing may either continue at
   an optional step 514, or may terminate at a step 516.
   At the optional step 514, it is determined whether any of the inactive tables is a so-called
   "stalling table". A stalling table is an inactive table that has been is inactive (i.e. has had
35 assigned to it fewer than the threshold number of player entries required for participating in a
   hand of the card game at that table) for at least a predetermined number of most recent time
   points. In other words, a stalling table is an inactive table that has remained inactive or

   incomplete for a threshold period of time. If there is a stalling table then processing continues
   at a step 516 after which the task 500 terminates at the step 518; otherwise, the task 500
   terminates at the step 518.
 5 Figure 6 is a flowchart schematically illustrating the processing for the step 516 of figure 5, i.e.
   the processing performed when the task 500 has identified that there is a stalling table. A
   stalling table may arise when the player-entries currently assigned to that table have together
   caused a sufficient number of entries to be placed in the constraints list to make assigning
   another player-entry to that table difficult or unlikely. The processing at the step 516 therefore
10 attempts to redistribute or reassign some of the player-entries that have been assigned to a
   stalling table in an attempt to make assigning other player-entries to that stalling table more
   likely in the future (i.e. so that it is more likely that that table will be completed and will become
   active).
15 The processing at the step 516 may attempt to perform this redistribution/reassignment for at
   most a predetermined number of stalling tables. In a preferred embodiment, this
   predetermined number is one stalling table, but it will be appreciated that other predetermined
   numbers may be used based on the frequency at which inactive tables become stalling tables
   for a particular game and with the current set of player-entries for that game. For example,
20 with a small number of players each having a large number of player-entries, the likelihood of
   a table stalling is greater than when there is a large number of players each having a small
   number of player-entries (even if the total number of player-entries is the same or less).
   At a step 600, a table from the list of inactive tables is selected. If this list is ordered or has an
25 associated ordering, then the tables are selected sequentially in the ordering for the list.
   Suppose that this selected table requires a further N player-entries to be assigned to it in
   order for it to have the required number of player-entries assigned to participate in a hand of
   the game (i.e. to become active) - here, N is a positive integer. The ordering imposed on the
   list of inactive tables may (as mentioned above) be an ordering based on increasing size of N,
30 so that the first table selected at the step 600 will be one with the smallest value of N. This
   has the advantage that completion of that table is more likely as it needs fewer further player
   entries to be reassigned to it from a stalling table, thereby making it more likely that a stalling
   table can be assisted.
35 At a step 602, it is determined whether there is a different inactive table that is a stalling table
   that has N (or more) assigned player-entries such that the inactive table selected at the step
   600 is an assignable table for each of those N (or more) assigned player-entries. The stalling

   tables may be checked sequentially based on the ordering used for the list of inactive tables.
   If a suitable stalling table is located at the step 602, then processing continues at a step 604;
   otherwise, processing continues at a step 612.
 5
   At the step 612, it is determined whether there are any more inactive tables in the list of
   inactive tables that have not yet been selected at the step 600.
   If there are more inactive tables, then processing returns to the step 600 at which a next
10 inactive table is selected; otherwise, processing for the step 516 terminates at a step 608.
   At the step 604, N of the N (or more) player-entries assigned to the identified stalling table for
   which the table selected at the step 600 is an assignable table are reassigned to the table
   selected at the step 600 - i.e. those N player-entries are assigned to the table selected at the
15 step 600 instead of being assigned to the stalling table identified at the step 602. In this way,
   the table selected at the step 600 will have the required number of player-entries assigned for
   participating in a hand at that table, and hence will become active and may be removed from
   the list of inactive tables. Additionally, the stalling table selected at the step 602 will have
   fewer assignment constraints associated with it (due to having fewer player-entries assigned
20 to it) and hence it is more likely that this table may be completed in the future.
   Then, at a step 606, it is determined whether the number of stalling tables for which
   reassignment has now been performed for this instance of the step 516 is equal to the
   predetermined number of stalling tables. If reassignment from fewer than the predetermined
25 number of stalling tables has occurred so far, then processing continues at a step 610;
   otherwise processing for the step 516 terminates at the step 608.
   At the step 610, it is determined whether there are any more stalling tables. If there are more
   stalling tables, then processing continues at the step 612; otherwise, processing for the step
30 514 terminates at the step 608.
   In one embodiment of the invention, the gaming system 12 allows a player to view only those
   hands in which a player-entry of that player was, or is currently, actively participating.
35 A method of seating player-entries at a table (i.e. for determining the order in which the group
   of player-entries assigned to a table take their turns in a hand at that table) of a preferred
   embodiment of the invention shall be described below with reference to figures 7a and 7b.

   This method is applicable to games in which the order that player-entries take their respective
   turns in a hand of that game is based, at least in part, on which player-entry assumes a
   particular role in that hand (such as which player-entry acts as the big blind or the small blind
   if blinds are being played, or which player-entry has the dealer button). The player-entry with
 5 the dealer button normally takes a turn after all of the other player-entries have taken their
   turn. The player-entry playing or assuming the role of the small blind normally takes the first
   turn in a round of betting for the game (which includes anteing the small blind amount for the
   first betting round). The player entry playing or assuming the role of the big blind normally
   takes the second turn in a round of betting for the game (which includes anteing the big blind
10 amount for the first betting round).
   Figure 7a schematically illustrates an inactive table 700 for which the threshold number of
   assigned player-entries that are required for participating in a hand is 9 (although it will be
   appreciated that this is merely an example number). There are a number of seats (or turn
15 positions or play-locations) 702 "around" the table 700 - they are labelled 0 to 8. The seats
   702 are cyclically ordered, so that turns for player-entries cycle from seat 0 to seat 1 to seat 2
   to ... to seat 7 to seat 8 to seat 0 to ... . Each seat is allocatable to a player-entry assigned to
   the table 700. Thus, the relative order in which the player-entries take their respective turns in
   a hand of the game is determined by the cyclic ordering for the seats 702 together with which
20 player-entries have been allocated to which seats 702. The cyclic ordering is usually depicted
   as being clockwise around the table 700. In particular, assuming that play proceeds clockwise
   around the table 700 and that an actively participating player-entry allocated to seat n (n=0...
   8) has just taken a turn in the hand, then the next actively participating player-entry to take a
   turn in the hand will be the one allocated to seat (n+x) mod 9, where x is the smallest number
25 for which seat (n+x) mod 9 has allocated to it an actively participating player-entry.
   This then raises two questions: how are the individual seats 702 initially allocated to player
   entries that have been assigned to the table 700 and which player-entry will take the first turn
   (e.g. make the first bet in a betting round)?
30
   In the example shown in figure 7a, four player-entries have already been assigned to the table
   700. These four player-entries are Al, B2, D4 and F1 where (again) the letter designates a
   player 16 and the number designates the particular player-entry out of the one or more player
   entries of that player 16 however, it will be appreciated that this embodiment may also apply
35 to situations in which a player 16 may have at most one player-entry for a particular type of
   game. Player-entry Al has been allocated to seat 2; player-entry B2 has been allocated to
   seat 0; player-entry D4 has been allocated to seat 6; and player-entry F1 has been allocated

   to seat 5.
   Whenever a player-entry is assigned to the table 700 (e.g. by virtue of assignment at the step
   510 or by virtue of reassignment at the step 604), that player-entry is allocated a seat 702 at
 5 random from the set of seats 702 that do not currently have a player-entry allocated. For
   example, if a player-entry G1 were to be assigned to the table 700 as shown in figure 7a, then
   that player-entry G1 would be allocated a seat 702 randomly from the set of seats 702 having
   numbers 1, 3, 4, 7 and 8. In this way, player-entries are distributed randomly around the table
   700, so that the relative order in which player-entries take their turns at a table may then be
10 determined randomly. Figure 7b schematically illustrates the active table 700 when it has
   become active due to having the required number (9) of player-entries assigned to it.
   It will be appreciated that the random selection of a seat is not essential for example, when a
   player-entry is assigned to the table 700, that player-entry could be allocated to the next
15 available seat 702 in the order of seats 702 starting from seat 0 and progressing to seat 8.
   As mentioned above, this method is applicable to games in which the order in which player
   entries take their turn in a hand of that game (or a round of a hand of that game) is based, at
   least in part, on which player-entry assumes a particular role in that hand (such as which
20 player-entry acts as the big blind or the small blind if blinds are being played, or which player
   entry has the dealer button). As has been described, the player account data 62 may store
   and maintain, for each player-entry, an associated variable or counter "number-of hands
   since-last-played" associated with a particular role. The value of this "number-of-hands-since
   last-played" counter represents the number of hands in which that player-entry has
25 participated since that player-entry last assumed the corresponding particular role. When a
   player-entry participates in a hand, then (a) if that player-entry assumes that particular role
   then the associated "number of-hands-since-last-played" counter of that player-entry may be
   reset to 0 by the gaming system 12; (b) if that player-entry does not assume that particular
   role then the associated "number-of-hands-since-last-played" counter of that player entry may
30 be incremented by 1 by the gaming system 12.
   In figure 7b, the number in parentheses next to the identifier of each player-entry represents
   the value of the "number-of-hands-since-last-played" counter of that player-entry for, say, the
   role of acting as big blind.
35
   In an embodiment of the invention, when the required number of player entries for
   participating in a hand of the game associated with the table 700 have been assigned to the

   table 700, then the player-entry out of those assigned player-entries that has the highest value
   for the "number-of-hands-since-last played" counter associated with the particular role is
   selected to be the player entry that assumes that particular role in that hand. If two or more
   player-entries assigned to the table 700 have the same value for their "number-of-hands-since
 5 last-played" counter for the particular role, then one of them may be selected, such as the one
   with the lowest seat number. If the seats 702 have been allocated randomly as described
   above, then this will help ensure that the selection between two or more player-entries
   assigned to the table 700 that have the same value for the "number-of-hands-since-last
   played" counter is inherently random too. Hence, in the example given in figure 7b, player
10 entries G1 and R2 both have the highest "number-of-hands-since-last-played" counter values
   (both are 8), and so player-entry G1, having a lower seat number than player-entry R2, is
   selected to assume the role of acting as big blind. The "number-of-hands since-last-played"
   counter for player-entry G1 will then be reset to 0, whereas the "number-of-hands-since-last
   played" counters for the other player-entries participating at the table 700 will be incremented
15 by 1.
   Thus, the particular player-entry that will assume the role of playing a big blind in a game may
   be determined in this manner by using a "number-of-handssince-last-played" counter for the
   big blind role for each player-entry. This may then determine which player-entries will assume
20 the role of the small blind and the dealer; alternatively, a similar approach could be used to
   determine which player-entry should assume the role of the small blind and/or the dealer.
   These methods then set which player-entry (usually the small blind) will take the first turn in a
   betting round of a hand of the game. It will be appreciated that "big blind", "small blind" and
   "dealer" are just example roles for a game and that the assumption of one or more of these or
25 other roles may be determined in a similar manner.
   As mentioned above, when a new player-entry is created or instantiated for a particular game
   such as Hold 'Em, the lobby process 52 may set the value of a "number-of-hands-since-last
   played" counter for a particular role to a predetermined maximum value for that counter. This
30 helps bias the seating selection so that the new player-entry is more likely to assume that
   particular role in a hand as soon as possible.
   Whilst the allocation of a particular role (e.g. the big blind) to a player-entry could be
   performed randomly (e.g. by randomly selecting a seat 702 around the table 700) this would
35 result in the possibility that a player-entry may assume that particular role very infrequently
   over a period of time or may assume that role more frequently than would normally be
   expected over a period of time. Figure 8a depicts the probability distribution 800 of the

   number of hands a player-entry would have to play after having just assumed a particular role
   before assuming that particular role again under the assumption that the particular role is
   assigned randomly to the player-entries participating in a hand - here it is assumed that 9
   player-entries are required for participating in a hand. Figure 8b depicts the corresponding
 5 cumulative probability distribution 810. As can be seen, there is a substantial probability that a
   player-entry will have to wait less than the usual 9 hands before having to assume that
   particular role - indeed, 50% of the time a player-entry would have to wait 5 hands or less
   before re-assuming that particular role. For example, the probability that a player-entry would
   then gave to wait 0 hands before assuming that particular role is 0.11. Similarly, 10% of the
10 time a player-entry would have to wait 20 hands or more before re-assuming that particular
   role. This is vastly different from what a player would expect - he would expect his player
   entry to assume the particular role on a reasonably regular basis, namely about once every 9
   hands. Hence, the purely random assignment of a particular role to a player-entry may be
   considered unsuitable.
15
   In contrast, figure 8a depicts a probability distribution 802 of the number of hands a player
   entry would have to play after having just assumed a particular role before assuming that
   particular role again under the assumption that the above-described method involving the
   "number-of-hands-since-last-played" counter is used to assign the particular role to a player
20 entry. Again, it is assumed that 9 player-entries are required for participating in a hand. Figure
   8b depicts the corresponding cumulative probability distribution 812. As can be seen, there is
   a only a small probability that a player-entry will have to wait less than the usual 9 hands
   before having to assume that particular role - indeed, a player-entry would have to wait 7
   hands or less only about 30% of the time before re-assuming that particular role. Similarly,
25 only 2% of the time would a player entry have to wait 10 hands or more before re-assuming
   that particular role. This is much closer to the expectations of players 16. Hence, the above
   described method involving the "number-of-hands-since-last-played" counter is a much more
   suitable and realistic method of assigning a role to a player-entry.
30 In some embodiments in which the gaming system 12 provides a game for play by players 16,
   the gaming system 12 may only enable a player-entry participating in a hand of that game to
   fold out of turn if there is at least a predetermined number of player-entries associated with
   (i.e. for playing a hand of) that game and/or at least a predetermined number of distinct
   players 16 having at least one player-entry associated with (i.e. for participating in a hand of)
35 that game. The predetermined number of distinct players may be set to be equal to twice the
   number of player-entries required for participating in a single hand of the game. As the
   number of players and/or player-entries for that game changes, the gaming system 12 may

   enable or disable the ability to fold out of turn accordingly.
   Additionally, or alternatively, in some embodiments in which the gaming system 12 provides a
   game for play by players 16, the gaming system 12 may only enable a player-entry that has
 5 folded from a hand of that game to be assigned to another table before the end of that hand
   (i.e. without having to wait for that hand to complete or come to a conclusion) if there is at
   least a predetermined number of player-entries associated with (i.e. for playing a hand of) that
   game and/or at least a predetermined number of distinct players 16 having at least one
   player-entry associated with (i.e. for participating in a hand of) that game. The predetermined
10 number of distinct players may be set to be equal to twice the number of player-entries
   required for participating in a single hand of the game. As the number of players and/or
   player-entries for that game changes, the gaming system 12 may enable or disable the ability
   to be assigned to a new table without having to wait for a current hand to end accordingly.
15 According to an embodiment of the invention, a method of operating an electronic card game
   tournament may make use of one or more of the above described methods of enabling and
   disabling one or both of (a) the ability of a player-entry to fold out of turn and (b) the ability of a
   player-entry to be assigned to a new table without having to wait for a current hand to end. In
   particular, at the beginning of the tournament, a player-entry may initially be allowed to fold
20 out of turn from a hand of the game and/or may, having just folded in a hand, be assigned to a
   new table without having to wait for that hand to end. However, once the number of player
   entries and/or distinct players remaining in the tournament (i.e. those who have not exhausted
   all of their chips) has decreased to a predetermined threshold number of player-entries and/or
   players, then the ability to fold out of turn may be removed from the remaining player-entries
25 and/or the remaining player-entries will have to wait for the completion of a hand from which
   they have just folded before being assigned to another table to play another hand. In all other
   respects, the tournament may be operating in the same way as other electronic card game
   tournaments.
30 Operating the tournament in this manner helps bring the tournament to a conclusion as
   quickly as possible-when there is a large number of player-entries still participating in the
   tournament, then the rate at which those player entries participate in hands of the game is
   increased by virtue of those player entries (a) being able to fold out of turn and/or (b) being
   assigned to a new table/hand without having to wait for a hand from which they have just
35 folded to finish. Hence, the time until a player-entry may exit the tournament may be
   decreased. However, once one of the above predetermined threshold number of distinct
   players or player-entries has been reached, then these benefits are minimized.

   In some embodiments in which the gaming system 12 provides a game for play by players 16,
   the gaming system 12 may only allow a player to have a multiple player-entries for
   participating in a hand of that game if there is at least a predetermined number of player
 5 entries associated with (i.e. for playing a hand of) that game and/or at least a predetermined
   number of distinct players 16 having at least one player-entry associated with (i.e. for
   participating in a hand of) that game. The predetermined number may be associated with the
   number of multiple player-entries that a player wishes to have, i.e. there may be a first
   predetermined number of players and/or player-entries for allowing a player to have a second
10 player-entry, there may be a second (higher) predetermined number of players and/or player
   entries for allowing a player to have a third player-entry, and so on. For example: for a player
   16 to be allowed to have a second player-entry for a particular game, the gaming system 12
   may require there to be at least 18 existing player-entries for that game; for a player 16 to be
   allowed to have a third player-entry for a particular game, the gaming system 12 may require
15 there to be at least 60 existing player-entries for that game; and for a player 16 to be allowed
   to have a second player-entry for a particular game, the gaming system 12 may require there
   to be at least 90 existing player-entries for that game.
   Although the present invention has been described in detail with reference to particular
20 embodiments, it should be understood that various other changes, substitutions, and
   alterations may be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the present
   invention. For example, although the present invention has been described with reference to a
   number of elements included within a gaming system, these elements may be combined,
   rearranged or positioned in order to accommodate particular operational configurations or
25 needs. In addition, any of these elements may be provided as separate external components
   to the gaming system where appropriate. The present invention contemplates great flexibility
   in the arrangement of these elements as well as their internal components.
   It will be appreciated that, insofar as embodiments of the invention are implemented by a
30 computer program, then a storage medium and a transmission medium carrying the computer
   program form aspects of the invention. The computer program may have one or more
   program instructions, or program code, which, when executed by a computer carries out an
   embodiment of the invention.
35 The term "program," as used herein, may be a sequence of instructions designed for
   execution on a computer system, and may include a subroutine, a function, a procedure, an
   object method, an object implementation, an executable application, an applet, a servlet,

   source code, object code, a shared library, a dynamic linked library, and/or other sequences
   of instructions designed for execution on a computer system. The storage medium may be a
   magnetic disc (such as a hard drive or a floppy disc), an optical disc (such as a CD-ROM, a
   DVD-ROM or a BluRay disc), or a memory (such as a ROM, a RAM, EEPROM, EPROM,
 5 Flash memory or a portable/removable memory device), etc. The transmission medium may
   be a communications signal, a data broadcast, a communications link between two or more
   computers, etc.
   Numerous other changes, substitutions, variations, alterations and modifications may be
10 ascertained by those skilled in the art and it is intended that the present invention encompass
   all such changes, substitutions, variations, alterations and modifications as falling within the
   spirit and scope of the appended claims. Moreover, the present invention is not intended to be
   limited in any way by any statement in the specification that is not otherwise reflected in the
   claims.
15
   In the claims that follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where the
   context requires otherwise owing to express language or necessary implication, the word
   "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
   that is, to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
20 addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
   Further, any reference herein to prior art is not intended to imply that such prior art forms or
   formed a part of the common general knowledge in any country.
25

   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1. A computerised method of assigning a player-entry to a virtual table in a computerised
   gaming system so that said player-entry can participate in a hand of a particular card game at
 5 said virtual table, wherein there is a plurality of players each having one or more respective
   player-entries for participating in a respective hand of said card game, wherein a player-entry
   that is actively participating in a hand of said card game may fold out of turn from said hand so
   as to no longer be actively participating in said hand, the method comprising:
            for a first player-entry of a first player, the gaming system identifying an assignable
10 virtual table for said first player-entry from a plurality of virtual tables for said card game,
            wherein a virtual table is an assignable virtual table for a particular player-entry if the
   assignment of said particular player-entry to said virtual table cannot itself provide any player
   with further information about a hand in which an already assigned player-entry of said player
   is actively participating in addition to information about said hand that is available to said
15 player only by virtue of the participation of said already assigned player entry in said hand;
   and
            the gaming system assigning the first player-entry to the identified assignable virtual
   table.
20 2. The method of claim 1, in which the number of player-entries currently assigned to an
   assignable virtual table is less than a threshold number required for participating in a hand of
   said card game.
   3. The method of claim 2, in which the step of identifying comprises identifying an assignable
25 virtual table for said first player-entry that has the largest number of player-entries currently
   assigned out of all of the assignable virtual tables for said first player-entry.
   4. The method of any one of the preceding claims, in which said further information identifies
   that said first player-entry has folded out of turn from said hand in which said already assigned
30 player-entry is actively participating.
   5. The method of any one of the preceding claims, in which said first player entry folded out
   of turn from the hand that said first player-entry most recently participated in, and in which the
   step of identifying comprises determining that a particular virtual table is not an assignable
35 virtual table for said first player-entry if a second player that has a player-entry still actively
   participating in said hand that said first player-entry most recently participated in also has a
   player-entry assigned to that particular virtual table.

   6. The method of any one of the preceding claims, in which there is a particular virtual table
   to which a further player-entry has been assigned and said further player-entry folded out of
   turn from the hand that said further player-entry most recently participated in, and in which the
 5 step of identifying comprises determining that said particular virtual table is not an assignable
   virtual table for said first player-entry if said first player has a second player-entry still actively
   participating in said hand that said further player-entry most recently participated in.
   7. The method of any one of the preceding claims, comprising:
10          if none of said plurality of virtual tables is an assignable virtual table for said first
   player-entry, adding a new virtual table to said plurality of virtual tables, said step of identifying
   then identifying said new virtual table.
   8. The method of any one of the preceding claims, comprising the gaming system carrying
15 out the steps of identifying and assigning for each player-entry of said plurality of players that
   is not currently assigned to a respective virtual table.
   9. The method of any one of the preceding claims, comprising the gaming system carrying
   out, at each of a sequence of time-points, the steps of identifying and assigning for each
20 player-entry of said plurality of players that is not currently assigned to a respective virtual
   table.
   10. The method of claim 9, comprising:
                 at a time-point, identifying that at least one of said plurality of virtual tables
25      is a stalling table, wherein a virtual table is a stalling virtual table if the number of
        player-entries assigned to said virtual table has, for a predetermined number of
        most recent time-points, been less than a threshold number required for
        participating in a hand of said card game;
                 selecting a first virtual table from said plurality of virtual tables, wherein
30      the number of player-entries currently assigned to said virtual table is less than
        said threshold number by N player-entries, where N is a positive integer;
                 identifying a stalling virtual table having at least N player-entries currently
        assigned and for which said first table is an assignable virtual table; and
            reassigning N player-entries of said at least N player-entries to said first virtual table.
35
   11. The method of claim 10, in which said step of selecting a first virtual table comprising
   selecting a first table from said plurality of virtual tables that has a smallest respective value of

   N.
   12. The method of any one of claims 8 to 11, comprising the gaming system carrying out the
   steps of identifying and assigning for a player-entry that did not fold out of turn from the hand
 5 that that player-entry most recently participated in before carrying out the steps of identifying
   and assigning for a player-entry that did fold out of turn from the hand that that player-entry
   most recently participated in.
   13. The method of any one of claims 8 to 12, comprising:
10          before carrying out the steps of identifying and assigning, the gaming system
   generating a list of constraints on the assignment of any currently unassigned player-entries;
            wherein the step of identifying uses said list of constraints to identify whether a virtual
   table is an assignable virtual table for said first player-entry.
15 14. A computerised method of determining, in a computerised gaming system, an order in
   which a group of player-entries, from a plurality of player-entries, that have been assigned to a
   virtual table to participate in a hand of a card game associated with said virtual table take a
   turn in said hand, wherein said order is based, at least in part, on which player-entry of said
   group of player-entries assumes a particular role in said hand, the method comprising:
20          for each player-entry of said plurality of player-entries, storing a respective counter that
   represents the number of hands in which that player-entry has participated since that player
   entry last assumed said particular role;
            selecting a player-entry out of said group of player-entries that has the highest
   respective counter to be the player-entry that assumes said particular role in said hand,
25 wherein the step of selecting is performed after the number of player-entries in said group of
   player-entries has reached a threshold number of player-entries required for participating in
   said hand of said card game;
            assigning player-entries to said virtual table until the number of player-entries in said
   group of player-entries has reached said threshold number, comprising the method according
30 to any one of claims 1 to 13; and
            after the step of selecting, allowing said group of player-entries to participate in said
   hand of said card game.
   15. The method of claim 14, comprising setting the respective counter of a newly-created
35 player-entry to a predetermined maximum value for said counter.
   16. The method of either claim 14 or 15, in which said particular role determines which of said

   player-entries of said group of player-entries takes a first turn in said hand of said card game.
   17. The method of any one of claims 14 to 16, in which said particular role determines which
   of said player-entries of said group of player-entries takes a first turn in a round of said hand
 5 of said card game.
   18. The method of any one of claims 14 to 17, in which said particular role is one of a big
   blind, a small blind, or a dealer for said hand of said card game.
10 19. The method of any one of claims 14 to 18, wherein said virtual table has an associated
   cyclically ordered plurality of turn-positions each allocatable to a respective player-entry from
   said group of player-entries, wherein the method comprises:
           when a player-entry has been assigned to said virtual table, randomly allocating to
   said player-entry a turn-position from any of said plurality of turn-positions that have not yet
15 been allocated to a player-entry;
           wherein the relative order in which said group of player-entries take respective turns in
   said hand of said card game is determined by the cyclic ordering of said plurality of turn
   positions and the allocations of said group of player-entries to said plurality of turn-positions.
20 20.     A gaming system comprising a processor arranged to carry out a method according to
   any one of the preceding claims.
   21.     A computer program which, when executed by a computer, carries out a method
   according to any one of claims 1 to 19.
25
   22. A computerised gaming system configured to assign a player-entry to a virtual table so
   that said player-entry can participate in a hand of a particular card game at said virtual table,
   wherein the gaming system supports a plurality of players each having one or more respective
   player-entries for participating in a respective hand of said card game, wherein a player-entry
30 that is actively participating in a hand of said card game may fold out of turn from said hand so
   as to no longer be actively participating in said hand, wherein the gaming system being further
   configured to:
           for a first player-entry of a first player, identify an assignable virtual table for said first
   player-entry from a plurality of virtual tables for said card game,
35         wherein a virtual table is an assignable virtual table for a particular player-entry if the
   assignment of said particular player-entry to said virtual table cannot itself provide any player
   with further information about a hand in which an already assigned player-entry of said player

   is actively participating in addition to information about said hand that is available to said
   player only by virtue of the participation of said already assigned player entry in said hand;
   and
            assign the first player-entry to the identified assignable virtual table.
 5
   23. The gaming system of claim 22, in which the number of player-entries currently assigned
   to an assignable virtual table is less than a threshold number required for participating in a
   hand of said card game.
10 24. The gaming system of claim 23, in which the step of identifying comprises identifying an
   assignable virtual table for said first player entry that has the largest number of player-entries
   currently assigned out of all of the assignable virtual tables for said first player-entry.
   25. The gaming system of any one of claims 22 to 24, in which said further information
15 identifies that said first player-entry has folded out of turn from said hand in which said already
   assigned player-entry is actively participating.
   26. The gaming system of any one of claims 22 to 25, in which said first player-entry folded
   out of turn from the hand that said first player-entry most recently participated in, and in which
20 the gaming system is further configured to determine that a particular virtual table is not an
   assignable virtual table for said first player-entry if a second player that has a player-entry still
   actively participating in said hand that said first player-entry most recently participated in also
   has a player-entry assigned to that particular virtual table.
25 27. The gaming system of any one of claims 22 to 26, in which there is a particular virtual
   table to which a further player-entry has been assigned and said further player-entry folded
   out of turn from the hand that said further player-entry most recently participated in, and in
   which the gaming system is further configured to determine that said particular virtual table is
   not an assignable virtual table for said first player-entry if said first player has a second player
30 entry still actively participating in said hand that said further player-entry most recently
   participated in.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      1/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       2/6

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
