              ABSTRACT
A method for detecting defects in a ferromagnetic material includes disposing a plurality of
magnetometers about a surface of the ferromagnetic material, wherein each magnetometer of the
plurality of magnetometers is fixed in position, relative to the ferromagnetic material and using the
plurality of magnetometers to sense a magnetic field generated by the ferromagnetic material at a
first point in time. The method also includes generating data points of a first two-dimensional map
from the sensed magnetic field, each data point corresponding to a respective location on the surface
of the ferromagnetic material and representing strength of the sensed magnetic field proximate the
location at the first point in time. The method uses the plurality of magnetometers to sense the
magnetic field generated by the ferromagnetic material at a second point in time, later than the first
point in time, and generates data points of a second two-dimensional map from the sensed magnetic
field, each data point corresponding to a respective location on the surface of the ferromagnetic
material and representing strength of the sensed magnetic field proximate the location at the second
point in time. The method subtracts the data points of the second two-dimensional map from
spatially corresponding data points of the first two-dimensional map, thereby yielding a difference
two-dimensional map, identifies, in the difference two-dimensional map, a plurality of data points
that conform to a predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field strength; and outputs a location
proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material that corresponds to the plurality of data points.
10268806_1 (GHMatters)P104631.AU.1

                        System and Method of Measuring Defects in Ferromagnetic Materials
                                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]                      This application claims the priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
61/994,961, filed May 18, 2014, titled "System and Method of Measuring Defects in Ferromagnetic
Materials," the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein, for all purposes.
                                                     TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]                      The present invention relates to defect detection in ferromagnetic materials and,
more particularly, to defect detection in ferromagnetic materials using a magnetometer.
                                                    BACKGROUND ART
[0003]                      Ferromagnetic materials, such as iron, nickel, steel and other materials, are used to
make many items, such as pipes, beams and ocean vessel hulls. As used herein, "ferromagnetic
material" includes both ferromagnetic and ferrimagnetic material. In many cases, these materials are
subject to corrosion and/or erosion. As used herein, corrosion means loss of material as a result of
chemical reaction, most commonly oxidation. As used herein, erosion means loss of material as a
result of a mechanical process, such as abrasion. For example, sand produced in an oil or gas well
can abrade the inside of a pipeline carrying oil or gas from the well. Material loss due to corrosion
and/or erosion is collectively referred to herein as a "defect." As used herein, the term defect also
includes a crack, or a void or inclusion of foreign material, such as might occur during manufacture
or later. If allowed to occur beyond a critical point, corrosion or erosion may compromise structural
integrity of an item, possibly resulting in a catastrophic failure, such as an oil spill, building collapse
or ship sinking.
[0004]                      Various apparatus and methods have been used in the prior art in attempts to detect
defects in ferromagnetic materials and items made of ferromagnetic materials. Some of these
apparatus and methods require removing thermal insulation and striping off corrosion inhibiting
surface treatments to gain direct access to a surface of the ferromagnetic material. In some cases, the
surface must be polished to create a pristine interface to a sensor or wave propagation from the
sensor. These steps are costly, time-consuming and often compromise the thermal insulation and/or
the surface treatments.
[0005]                      All prior art apparatus and methods for detecting defects in ferromagnetic materials
known to the inventors involve introducing energy into the material. For example, acoustic sensors
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

send a sound wave into the material and measure the signal that returns. Guided-wave and
topographic sensors similarly send electromagnetic waves into the material and sense reflections or
transport times of the wave. In a different view of imparting energy into the item being measured,
Rohrback Cosasco Systems, Inc. produces a line of sand erosion detection probes under the
tradename "Quicksand." These probes do not directly measure erosion of pipes, etc. Instead, these
probes are sacrificial, in that they detect erosion of portions of the probes themselves. Systems
based on such probes assume pipes and other items erode at approximately the same rate as the
probes' sacrificial portions. Furthermore, the probes rely on flow of fluid through the pipe, therefore
requiring energy to be introduced into the pipe in the form of fluid flow. These systems can detect
erosion only inside a pipe. These systems cannot detect defects elsewhere, such as inside the pipe
wall or on an outside surface of a pipe, nor can they infer the condition of a pipe due to erosion
before the sensor was in place.
[0006]                      Some prior art apparatus and methods involve magnetometry in attempts to detect
defects in ferromagnetic materials. For example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 8,542,127 and 8,447,532, both by
Valerian Goroshevskiy, et al., disclose using the inverse magnetostrictive Villari effect. The inverse
magnetostrictive Villari effect involves changes in a material's magnetic susceptibility under
applied mechanical stress. If a pipe suffers a defect, the pipe's magnetic susceptibility when the pipe
material is mechanically stressed, for example when the pipe is pressurized, is different than when
the pipe is not mechanically stressed. The Goroshevskiy patents rely on detecting this change in
magnetic susceptibility as pressure within the pipe changes. Thus, energy must be introduced into
the pipe in the form of pressurizing the inferior of the pipe. Some items, such as pipes, remain
unused, and therefore unpressurized, for periods of time during which defects may develop. Other
structures, such as ship hulls or structural elements, do not lend themselves to known pressurization
cycling. However, without pressurization, the Goroshevskiy apparatus and methods cannot detect
these defects. Furthermore, Goroshevskiy can determine a defect's location only along the length of
a pipe; Goroshevskiy cannot determine the defect's location circumferentially around the pipe.
                                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[00071                      An embodiment of the present invention provides a method for detecting defects in a
ferromagnetic material includes disposing a plurality of magnetometers about a surface of the
ferromagnetic material, wherein each magnetometer of the plurality of magnetometers is fixed in
position, relative to the ferromagnetic material and using the plurality of magnetometers to sense a
                                                            2
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

magnetic field generated by the ferromagnetic material at a first point in time. The method also
includes generating data points of a first two-dimensional map from the sensed magnetic field, each
data point corresponding to a respective location on the surface of the ferromagnetic material and
representing strength of the sensed magnetic field proximate the location at the first point in time.
The method uses the plurality of magnetometers to sense the magnetic field generated by the
ferromagnetic material at a second point in time, later than the first point in time, and generates data
points of a second two-dimensional map from the sensed magnetic field, each data point
corresponding to a respective location on the surface of the ferromagnetic material and representing
strength of the sensed magnetic field proximate the location at the second point in time. The method
subtracts the data points of the second two-dimensional map from spatially corresponding data
points of the first two-dimensional map, thereby yielding a difference two-dimensional map,
identifies, in the difference two-dimensional map, a plurality of data points that conform to a
predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field strength; and outputs a location proximate the surface of
the ferromagnetic material that corresponds to the plurality of data points.
[0008]                      In an embodiment, the subtracting is performed per axis.
[0009]                      In an embodiment, the method further comprises estimating a volume of material
missing from the ferromagnetic material at the location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic
material, based on amplitude of a feature represented by data in the plurality of data points.
[0010]                      In an embodiment, the method further comprises estimating a depth of the missing
material, based on the estimated volume of missing material and length in two spatial directions of a
feature represented by data in the plurality of data points.
[0011]                      In an embodiment, the method further comprises comprising:
              determining amplitude of the magnetic field generated by the ferromagnetic material at a
location distant from the location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material, based on at
least one of the data points of the map; and
              estimating a volume of material missing from the ferromagnetic material at the location
proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material, according to amplitude of data in the plurality
of data points and the amplitude of the magnetic field generated by the ferromagnetic material at a
location distant from the location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material.
                                                             3
10268806_1 (GHMatters)P104631.AU.1

[00121                      In an embodiment, the method further comprises estimating an area of the missing
material, based on length in two spatial directions of a feature represented by data in the plurality of
data points.
[0013]                      In an embodiment, the method further comprises estimating a depth of the missing
material, based on the estimated volume of missing material and length in two spatial directions of a
feature represented by data in the plurality of data points.
[0014]                      In an embodiment, wherein identifying the plurality of data points that conform to
the predefined spatial pattern comprises fitting at least one of a sine curve and a cosine curve to the
plurality of data points.
[0015]                      In an embodiment, the method further comprises comprising:
              calculating a plurality of spatial derivative values from the data points of the difference two
dimensional map; and wherein:
              identifying the plurality of data points that conform to a predefined spatial pattern comprises
identifying a plurality of data points that conform to the predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field
strength from the plurality of spatial derivative values.
[0016]                      In an embodiment, identifying the plurality of data points that conform to a
predefined spatial pattern comprises identifying a plurality of data points that corresponds to a loss
of a portion of the ferromagnetic material due to corrosion or erosion.
[00171                      In an embodiment, identifying the plurality of data points that conform to a
predefined spatial pattern comprises identifying a plurality of data points that corresponds to a crack
in the ferromagnetic material.
[0018]                      In an embodiment, disposing the plurality of magnetometers comprises disposing the
plurality of magnetometers on a cylindrical surface that surrounds an outer surface of the
ferromagnetic material.
[0019]                      In an embodiment, disposing the plurality of magnetometers comprises disposing the
plurality of magnetometers on a cylindrical surface, such that the plurality of magnetometers defines
a cylindrical lumen sized to receive the ferromagnetic material.
[0020]                      In an embodiment, disposing the plurality of magnetometers comprises organizing
the plurality of magnetometers as a two-dimensional array of magnetometers wrapped around the
ferromagnetic material.
                                                             4
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

[00211                      In an embodiment, disposing the plurality of magnetometers comprises organizing
the plurality of magnetometers as a plurality of rings of magnetometers, including spacing apart the
plurality of rings of magnetometers longitudinally along the ferromagnetic material, such that each
ring of the plurality of rings of magnetometers surrounds the ferromagnetic material.
[0022]                      In an embodiment:
              each magnetometer of the plurality of magnetometers comprising three orthogonally
oriented magnetometers;
              generating the data points comprises generating the data points such that each data point of
the respective first and second two-dimensional map represents strength of the sensed magnetic
field in each of three orthogonal directions; and
              identifying the plurality of data points that conform to the predefined spatial pattern
comprises, for each of the three orthogonal directions, identifying a plurality of data points that
conform to a predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field strength and a location proximate the
surface of the ferromagnetic material that corresponds to the plurality of data points, thereby
identifying three locations proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material; the method further
comprising:
              calculating a refined location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material from the
three identified locations; and wherein:
              outputting the location comprises outputting the refined location.
[0023]                      In an embodiment, disposing the plurality of magnetometers comprises disposing the
plurality of magnetometers on a surface that extends less than circumferentially around an outer
surface of the ferromagnetic material.
[0024]                      In an embodiment, disposing the plurality of magnetometers comprises organizing
the plurality of magnetometers as a two-dimensional array of magnetometers.
[0025]                      Another embodiment provides a method for detecting defects in a ferromagnetic
material. The method includes sensing a magnetic field generated by the ferromagnetic material at a
first point in time and generating data points of a first two-dimensional map from the sensed
magnetic field, each data point corresponding to a respective location on the surface of the
ferromagnetic material and representing strength of the sensed magnetic field proximate the location
at the first point in time .the method also includes sensing the magnetic field generated by the
ferromagnetic material at a second point in time, later than the first point in time and generating data
                                                             5
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

points of a second two-dimensional map from the sensed magnetic field, each data point
corresponding to a respective location on the surface of the ferromagnetic material and representing
strength of the sensed magnetic field proximate the location at the second point in time. The method
subtracts the data points of the second two-dimensional map from spatially corresponding data
points of the first two-dimensional map, thereby yielding a difference two-dimensional map,
identifies, in the difference two-dimensional map, a plurality of data points that conform to a
predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field strength, and outputs a location proximate the surface of
the ferromagnetic material that corresponds to the plurality of data points. In the method sensing the
magnetic field comprises sensing the magnetic field with a plurality of magnetometers, each
magnetometer of the plurality of magnetometers comprising three orthogonally oriented
magnetometers;
              generating the data points comprises generating the data points such that each data point of
the respective first and second two-dimensional map represents strength of the sensed magnetic
field in each of three orthogonal directions; and
              identifying the plurality of data points that conform to the predefined spatial pattern
comprises, for each of the three orthogonal directions, identifying a plurality of data points that
conform to a predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field strength and a location proximate the
surface of the ferromagnetic material that corresponds to the plurality of data points, thereby
identifying three locations proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material; the method further
comprising:
              calculating a refined location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material from the
three identified locations; and wherein:
              outputting the location comprises outputting the refined location.
[0026]                      In an embodiment, the subtracting is performed per axis.
[00271                      In an embodiment, the method further comprises estimating a volume of material
missing from the ferromagnetic material at the location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic
material, based on amplitude of a feature represented by data in the plurality of data points.
[0028]                      In an embodiment, the method further comprises estimating a depth of the missing
material, based on the estimated volume of missing material and length in two spatial directions of a
feature represented by data in the plurality of data points.
[0029]                      In an embodiment, the method further comprises:
                                                             6
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

              determining amplitude of the magnetic field generated by the ferromagnetic material at a
location distant from the location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material, based on at
least one of the data points of the map; and
              estimating a volume of material missing from the ferromagnetic material at the location
proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material, according to amplitude of data in the plurality
of data points and the amplitude of the magnetic field generated by the ferromagnetic material at a
location distant from the location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material.
[0030]                      In an embodiment, the method further comprises estimating an area of the missing
material, based on length in two spatial directions of a feature represented by data in the plurality of
data points.
[0031]                      In an embodiment, the method further comprises estimating a depth of the missing
material, based on the estimated volume of missing material and length in two spatial directions of a
feature represented by data in the plurality of data points.
[0032]                      In an embodiment, identifying the plurality of data points that conform to the
predefined spatial pattern comprises fitting at least one of a sine curve and a cosine curve to the
plurality of data points.
[0033]                      In an embodiment, the method further comprises:
              calculating a plurality of spatial derivative values from the data points of the difference two
dimensional map; and wherein:
              identifying the plurality of data points that conform to a predefined spatial pattern comprises
identifying a plurality of data points that conform to the predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field
strength from the plurality of spatial derivative values.
[0034]                      In an embodiment, identifying the plurality of data points that conform to a
predefined spatial pattern comprises identifying a plurality of data points that corresponds to a loss
of a portion of the ferromagnetic material due to corrosion or erosion.
[0035]                      In an embodiment, identifying the plurality of data points that conform to a
predefined spatial pattern comprises identifying a plurality of data points that corresponds to a crack
in the ferromagnetic material.
[0036]                      In an embodiment, disposing the plurality of magnetometers comprises disposing the
plurality of magnetometers on a cylindrical surface that surrounds an outer surface of the
ferromagnetic material.
                                                             7
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

[00371                      In an embodiment, disposing the plurality of magnetometers comprises disposing the
plurality of magnetometers on a cylindrical surface, such that the plurality of magnetometers defines
a cylindrical lumen sized to receive the ferromagnetic material.
[0038]                      In an embodiment, disposing the plurality of magnetometers comprises organizing
the plurality of magnetometers as a two-dimensional array of magnetometers wrapped around the
ferromagnetic material.
[0039]                      In an embodiment, disposing the plurality of magnetometers comprises organizing
the plurality of magnetometers as a plurality of rings of magnetometers, including spacing apart the
plurality of rings of magnetometers longitudinally along the ferromagnetic material, such that each
ring of the plurality of rings of magnetometers surrounds the ferromagnetic material.
[0040]                      In an embodiment:
              each magnetometer of the plurality of magnetometers comprising three orthogonally
oriented magnetometers;
              generating the data points comprises generating the data points such that each data point of
the respective first and second two-dimensional map represents strength of the sensed magnetic
field in each of three orthogonal directions; and
              identifying the plurality of data points that conform to the predefined spatial pattern
comprises, for each of the three orthogonal directions, identifying a plurality of data points that
conform to a predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field strength and a location proximate the
surface of the ferromagnetic material that corresponds to the plurality of data points, thereby
identifying three locations proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material; the method further
comprising:
              calculating a refined location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material from the
three identified locations; and wherein:
              outputting the location comprises outputting the refined location.
[0041]                      In an embodiment, n disposing the plurality of magnetometers comprises disposing
the plurality of magnetometers on a surface that extends less than circumferentially around an outer
surface of the ferromagnetic material.
[0042]                      In an embodiment, disposing the plurality of magnetometers comprises organizing
the plurality of magnetometers as a two-dimensional array of magnetometers.
                                                             8
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

[00431                      Another embodiment provides a method for detecting defects in a ferromagnetic
material, the method comprising:
              sensing a magnetic field generated by the ferromagnetic material at a first point in time;
              generating data points of a first two-dimensional map from the sensed magnetic field, each
data point corresponding to a respective location on the surface of the ferromagnetic material and
representing strength of the sensed magnetic field proximate the location at the first point in time;
              sensing the magnetic field generated by the ferromagnetic material at a second point in time,
later than the first point in time;
              generating data points of a second two-dimensional map from the sensed magnetic field,
each data point corresponding to a respective location on the surface of the ferromagnetic material
and representing strength of the sensed magnetic field proximate the location at the second point in
time;
              subtracting the data points of the second two-dimensional map from spatially corresponding
data points of the first two-dimensional map, thereby yielding a difference two-dimensional map;
              identifying, in the difference two-dimensional map, a plurality of data points that conform to
a predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field strength; and
              outputting a location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material that corresponds to
the plurality of data points; wherein:
              sensing the magnetic field comprises sensing the magnetic field with a plurality of
magnetometers, each magnetometer of the plurality of magnetometers comprising three
orthogonally oriented magnetometers;
              generating the data points comprises generating the data points such that each data point of
the respective first and second two-dimensional map represents strength of the sensed magnetic
field in each of three orthogonal directions; and
              identifying the plurality of data points that conform to the predefined spatial pattern
comprises, for each of the three orthogonal directions, identifying a plurality of data points that
conform to a predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field strength and a location proximate the
surface of the ferromagnetic material that corresponds to the plurality of data points, thereby
identifying three locations proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material; the method further
comprising:
                                                          9
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

              calculating a refined location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material from the
three identified locations; and wherein:
              outputting the location comprises outputting the refined location.
                                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0044]                      The invention will be more fully understood by referring to the following Detailed
Description of Specific Embodiments in conjunction with the Drawings, of which:
[0045]                      Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a hypothetical pipe and a cross-sectional view of a
portion of the pipe, as known in the prior art.
[0046]                      Fig. 2 is a perspective view of a hypothetical curved pipe, as known in the prior art.
[00471                      Fig. 3 schematically illustrates a magnetic field produced by a hypothetical magnetic
dipole, as known in the prior art.
[0048]                      Fig. 4 contains graphs of hypothetical exemplary field strengths Bx, By and Bz
sensed by a magnetometer along three axes along a line in Fig. 3.
[0049]                      Fig. 5 schematically illustrates a hypothetical plate of ferromagnetic material, as
known in the prior art.
[0050]                      Fig. 6 schematically illustrates the plate of Fig. 5 as many small aligned magnetic
dipoles, as interpreted according to embodiments of the present invention.
[0051]                      Fig. 7 schematically illustrates the plate of Fig. 5 with a defect in its surface.
[0052]                      Fig. 8 schematically illustrates a hypothetical pipe, showing a helical thickness
artifact from its manufacture, as known in the prior art.
[0053]                      Fig. 9 schematically illustrates the pipe of Fig. 8 after being conceptually cut and
unrolled, as known in the prior art.
[0054]                      Fig. 10 contains a graph of one component of a magnetic field about an actual pipe
having a defect in its external surface, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0055]                      Fig. 11 is a side view of a magnetometric sensor unit, according to an embodiment
of the present invention.
[0056]                      Fig. 12 schematically illustrates a set of magnetometric sensor units attached to a
pipe, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[00571                      Fig. 13 schematically illustrates a set of magnetometric sensor units attached to a
pipe, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
                                                                10
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

[00581                      Fig. 14 is a perspective schematic view of an array of magnetometric sensors
disposed circumferentially around a pipe, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0059]                      Fig. 15 is a perspective schematic view of a pair of circuit boards, bearing
magnetometers, such as in each element of the array of magnetometric sensors of Fig. 14, according
to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0060]                      Fig. 16 is a perspective schematic view of rings of magnetometric sensors disposed
about a pipe, according to an embodiment of the present invention
[0061]                      Figs. 17 and 18 include graphs of magnetometric data along two respective
dimensions of an actual pipe, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0062]                      Figs. 19 and 20 contain plots of derivatives calculated from the plots of Figs. 17 and
18, respectively, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0063]                      Fig. 21 is a graph of magnetic field strength for three simulated defects, all of the
same diameter, but of different depths, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0064]                      Fig. 22 is a graph of magnetic field strength for three simulated defects, all having
the same depth, but of different diameters, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0065]                      Fig. 23 is a graph of magnetic field strength along an x axis proximate a defect in a
pipe, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0066]                      Fig. 24 is a graph of magnetic field strength along an z axis proximate a defect in a
pipe, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[00671                      Fig. 25 is a graph of the magnetic field strength of Fig. 23, after normalization,
according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0068]                      Fig. 26 is a perspective schematic illustration of a pipe and standoff between a
detector and a defect in the pipe, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0069]                      Fig. 27 is a graph illustrating differences in signal strength from a defect on an inside
of a pipe and signal strength from a defect on an outside of the pipe, according to an embodiment of
the present invention.
[00701                      Fig. 28 is a surface plot of a result of a subtraction, showing the one axis of a
magnetic field, according to a temporal analysis, according to an embodiment of the present
invention.
[00711                      Figs. 29 and 30 are perspective schematic views of apparatus for implementing
physical scans of items, according to respective embodiments of the present invention.
                                                                 11
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

[00721                      Fig. 31 is a schematic block diagram of a remote magnetometric sensor in wireless
communication with a base station, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS
[0073]                      Embodiments of the present invention enable detecting defects in items containing
ferromagnetic materials without requiring energy to be introduced into the materials and without
necessarily removing thermal insulation, surface treatments and the like from the materials or items.
The ferromagnetic materials in the items generate magnetic fields. Embodiments of the present
invention detect and characterize defects in the items by analyzing the items' magnetic fields to find
portions of the magnetic fields that differ in characteristic ways from residual magnetic fields
generated by non-defective portions of the items. The portions of the magnetic fields that differ in
the characteristic ways correspond to locations of the defects. The residual magnetic fields
correspond to portions of the items distant from the defects. The defect characterization may include
volume of material lost due to each defect and/or width and/or depth of each defect. A challenge to
any magnetometric approach is that the intrinsic residual magnetic field of the item is typically non
homogeneous, reflective of material and manufacturing variations across the item. A key challenge
for these methods is to separate the magnetic "signature" of the defect from the "noise" intrinsic in
the item's residual field.
                                                         Overview
[0074]                      In some embodiments, a two-dimensional array of magnetometric sensors is
disposed parallel to an outside surface of an item to be analyzed. The array of magnetometric
sensors collects data enabling the creation of a two-dimensional map of magnetometric data
(magnetic field map). In this context, a "mat" of magnetometric sensors wrapped around a circular
cross-section pipe or other non-planar item is considered to be two-dimensional.
[00751                      In some embodiments, an item is physically scanned along one dimension by a one
dimensional array of magnetometric                    sensors, thereby creating a two-dimensional map of
magnetometric data. In some embodiments, an item is raster, spiral or otherwise scanned along
more than one dimension by a single magnetometric sensor or a small group of magnetometric
sensors to create a two-dimensional map of magnetometric data.
[0076]                      The ferromagnetic material in the item generates a magnetic field. Magnetic fields
are vector quantities characterized by both strength and direction. The map of magnetometric data
(magnetic field map) represents strength of the magnetic field at each of many points above the
                                                              12
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

surface of the item. A magnetic field map can indicate one, two or three components of the 3
dimensional magnetic field strength vector.
[00771                      In some embodiments, the magnetometric data is essentially searched for any of
several predefined patterns (shapes). A region in which the strength of the magnetic field, or any of
the components of the 3-dimensional magnetic field, spatially varies according to one of the
predefined patterns corresponds to a location of a defect. According to one of these predefined
patterns, along a straight line, the magnetic field begins at the residual level, and then increases in
strength to a peak, relative to the residual, then decreases in strength to a valley below the residual,
and then returns to the residual level, somewhat similar to the shape of one cycle of a sine curve.
[0078]                      According to another one of these predefined patterns, along the straight line, the
magnetic field begins at the residual level, and then increases in strength to a peak, relative to the
residual, then decreases in strength to a valley below the residual, and then increases in strength to a
second peak, relative to the residual, and then returns to the residual level, somewhat similar to the
shape of one and a half cycles of a cosine curve.
[00791                      As noted, the residual magnetic field corresponds to portions of an item distant from
any defect. However, the residual field has many features, due to the item being not perfectly
homogeneous, that may mask the presence of a defect signature. By searching the magnetic field
measurements for defect signatures, we can identify the location of the defects as compared to the
non-defect features in the residual. We refer to this type of analysis, in which magnetic fields of the
defect(s) are distinguished from the residual as the means to detect defects, as "spatial analysis."
[00801                      In some embodiments, the magnetometric data for the item is captured when the
item is new or at some other reference point in time. The magnetometric data is stored, and then
later, magnetometric data is again captured for the same portion of the item, and the two datasets are
compared. Differences between the two datasets represent candidate defects. We refer to this type of
analysis, in which data sets captured at different times to determine differences between the
datasets, as "temporal analysis." The candidate defects may then be analyzed for defect signatures,
as in the spatial analysis.
[00811                      In some embodiments, multiple arrays of magnetometric sensors are attached to an
item to be analyzed and remain attached to the item for essentially the life of the item or for another
extended period of time. Each such array is attached at a discrete location on the item. Each array
may include an energy harvester to provide electrical power to operate the array. The arrays may be
                                                              13
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

interconnected by a wired or wireless network. The network may employ a messaging protocol, a
routing algorithm, clock management and other aspects that enable a linear network that includes
hundreds of nodes with greater than ten hops to operate while consuming very little power, i.e., able
to be powered by energy harvesters.
[0082]                      The arrays of magnetometric sensors send data, via the network, to a base station,
which analyzes the data to detect defects. The base station may be coupled to a distributed control
system, plant management system or another external system. The external system may query the
base station about defects or command the base station to initiate defect detection. Optionally or
alternatively, the base station may notify the external system of defects without a query from the
external system. Similarly, the base station may raise an alarm, such as illuminating a light,
sounding a hom, sending an e-mail message or initiating a telephone call and playing a pre-recorded
or voice synthesized message, if it detects a defect.
[00831                      As noted, an array of magnetometric sensors may be fixed to an item to collect
magnetometric data, or items may be physically scanned by moving magnetometric sensors relative
to the items to collect the magnetometric data. In either case, the magnetometric data may be
analyzed temporally or spatially to detect defects.
                                                           Defects
[0084]                      As noted, defects may be losses of material due to corrosion and/or erosion.
Examples and embodiments are described herein in the context of pipes. However, these
embodiments and examples apply to other types of items, such as flat sheets, hulls of ships, storage
tanks/vessels, beams, columns, etc.
[0085]                      Fig. 1 is a schematic illustration of a hypothetical pipe 100 and a cross section
(Section A-A) of the pipe 100. Almost any pipe is subject to developing defects as a result of
corrosion or erosion on the outside surface of the pipe, as exemplified at 102, for example as a result
of acid rain, chemical spill or accidental or malicious physical damage. Most pipes are also subject
to developing defects on inside surfaces of the pipes, as exemplified at 104, 106 and 108. For
example, sand produced in an oil or gas well is typically transported along the bottom of a pipe and
can, therefore, abrade the bottom of the pipe, as exemplified at 104. Areas of the inside wall of a
pipe, where the top surface of liquid within the pipe meets the inside wall of the pipe, exemplified at
106 and 108, are common locations for corrosion. A pipe may also develop defects within the
thickness of the pipe's wall, as exemplified at 110.
                                                              14
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

[00861                      Erosion often occurs within and slightly downstream of a bend in a pipe 200, at a
location indicated by dashed line 202 in Fig. 2. Turbulence due to the change of flow direction
creates candidate sites for corrosion. Arrows indicate a direction of flow within the pipe 200.
Enlargements and constrictions in pipelines (not shown) not only create potential sites for erosion,
they also tend to create turbulence downstream and, therefore, tend to cause defects adjacent the
turbulent regions.
                                            Magnetometers and Defect Detection
[00871                      Fig. 3 schematically illustrates a magnetic field produced by a hypothetical magnetic
dipole 300. Magnetic field lines, exemplified by line 302, represent the magnetic field. The
magnetic dipole 300 lies in a plane 304 and, for simplicity, only magnetic field lines 300 in the
plane 304 are shown.
[0088]                      Vector magnetometers measure vector components of a magnetic field. That is, a
vector magnetometer measures strength of a magnetic field that is directed along an axis of the
magnetometer. A 3-axis magnetometer 306 measures magnetic field strength along three axes, X, Y
and Z. If the magnetometer 306 translates along a line 308 parallel to the magnetic dipole 302, the
magnetometer 306 senses a varying magnetic field along the line 308. For example, the X axis
sensor senses various field strengths, which represent X components of the magnetic vectors
represented by arrows at A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H. Fig. 4 contains graphs of hypothetical
exemplary field strengths Bx, By and Bz sensed by the magnetometer 306 along the three axes
along the line 308. Note that the Bx graph resembles a cosine curve and the Bz graph resembles a
sine curve. These shapes are characteristic of a magnetic field in the vicinity of a discrete magnetic
dipole.
[0089]                      Fig. 5 schematically illustrates a hypothetical plate of ferromagnetic material 500.
The plate 500 may be considered to be composed of many small aligned magnetic dipoles,
exemplified by magnetic dipoles 602 and 604, as schematically illustrated in Fig. 6. The magnetic
field lines extend from each small magnetic dipole to its front and back neighbors, largely in straight
lines, and the magnetic field lines exit the plate 500 at its ends 502 and 504, essentially as illustrated
in Fig. 3. Few or none of the magnetic field lines exit the plate 500 through its top, bottom or sides.
[0090]                      However, if the plate suffered a defect, some material is lost, as exemplified in Fig. 7
by a defect 700 in the surface of a block 702. Consequently, one or more of the small magnetic
dipoles, such as magnetic dipoles 602 or 604, is lost, and the resulting asymmetric arrangement of
                                                                15
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

the remaining magnetic dipoles results in some magnetic field lines exiting the block through the
top, bottom and/or sides of the block 702. Accordingly, a signature of a defect, i.e., a missing
volume of ferromagnetic material, may be thought of as being approximated by an equal volume of
oppositely-oriented magnetic dipoles. Even if only interior, i.e., non-surface, magnetic dipoles are
lost, the resulting asymmetric arrangement of the remaining magnetic dipoles results in some
magnetic field lines exiting the block through the top, bottom and/or sides of the block 702.
[0091]                      The local magnetic field in the vicinity of the lost magnetic dipoles is similar to the
magnetic field described above, with respect to Figs. 3 and 4. Consequently, the location of the
defect can be found by locating a portion of the magnetic field produced by the plate 702 that has a
shape similar to the shape of the Bx or By graph in Fig. 4. Thus, the general shapes of the Bx and
By graphs may be used as magnetic signatures of defects.
                                                     Pipe Defect Detection
[0092]                      Pipe is fabricated in a variety of ways. Each method leaves behind inhomogeneous
features, either in composition, thickness, temperature history or some other artifact. All of these
have the potential to cause the item's intrinsic, residual magnetic field to not be smooth, but to have
features of size and complexity such that finding the defect's signature is not straight forward. A
common manufacturing artifact in pipes is a spiral (helical) pattern of thickness down the length of
the pipe. Fig. 8 schematically illustrates a pipe 800, showing such a helical thickness artifact 802
from its manufacture. Conceptually, the pipe 800 can be cut along a line 804 parallel to its
longitudinal axis and then unrolled into a flat plate 900, as schematically illustrated in Fig. 9. This
plate 900 may be analyzed, as described above, with respect to Figs. 3-7.
[0093]                      Fig. 10 contains a graph of the x component of the magnetic field about an actual 4.5
inch (114.3 mm) diameter pipe having a 1 inch x 1 inch x 0.06 inch (25.4 mm x 25.4 mm x 1.5 mm)
defect in its external surface. The graph is presented as a distorted surface 1000. Radial distance of
the surface 1000 from a longitudinal axis 1002 of the pipe indicates strength of the x component of
the magnetic field.
[0094]                      The manufacturing processes of the pipe leaves behind artifacts in the magnetic
field. The often-observed helical pattern in the field due to manufacturing processes, feature 802
(Figs. 8 and 9) is evident in Fig. 10, where a ridge of magnetic field strength spatially corresponds to
the helical manufacturing feature, as indicated by dashed helical line 1004.
                                                               16
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

[0095]                      Also evident in Fig. 10 is a peak 1006 in magnetic field strength. Furthermore, as
indicated by dotted line 1008, the shape of the surface proximate the peak 1006 is similar to the
shape of the By curve in Fig. 4 and is, therefore, characteristic of a defect.
[00961                      Similar analyses may be performed using the y component of the magnetic field
about the pipe and the z component of the magnetic field. Correlating locations of defects found by
the three analyses provides the location of the defects more accurately than the analysis of only one
component of the magnetic field.
                                                        Sensor Array
[00971                      Fig. 11 schematically illustrates one embodiment of the present invention. In this
embodiment, a magnetometric sensor unit 1100 is strapped around a pipe 1102. The magnetometric
sensor unit 1100 includes two semicircular portions (half shells) that are hinged together. The hinge
is located on the back side of the magnetometric sensor unit 1100 and thus is not visible in Fig. 11.
A releasable latch 1104 mechanically secures the two half shells to each other, thereby clamping the
magnetometric sensor unit 1100 around the pipe 1102. The latch 1104 secures the magnetometric
sensor unit 1100 to the pipe 1102 sufficiently tightly to prevent rotation of the magnetometric sensor
unit 1100 around the pipe 1102 or translation of the magnetometric sensor unit 1100 along the pipe
1102, in response to forces expected to be encountered in normal use, such as in an industrial
installation. The latch 1104 may be keyed, to prevent unauthorized removal or tampering with the
magnetometric sensor unit 1100. The magnetometric sensor unit 1100 may be constructed so as to
meet ATEX/UL directive standards regarding explosion protection, as well as being weatherproof.
[0098]                      Advantageously, since the magnetometric sensor unit 1100 does not need to be in
contact with the item being measured, it may be attached to the pipe 1102 over any existing pipe
covering, such as thermal insulation or pipe surface treatment, without removing the pipe covering.
Additional thermal insulation or other covering may be applied over an installed magnetometric
sensor unit 1100, if desired.
[0099]                      A portion 1105 of the outer housing of the magnetometric sensor unit 1100 is shown
removed in Fig. 11 to reveal an array 1106 of magnetometric sensors. Each magnetometric sensor in
the array 1106 may be a three-axis magnetometric. As can be seen through the opening 1105 in
outer housing, the magnetometric sensors 1106 are disposed around the pipe 1102 in rings. Each
ring includes a number of magnetometric sensors spaced regularly around the ring. These internal
rings are spaced apart longitudinally along the pipe 1102 at regular intervals, essentially creating a
                                                              17
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

regular two-dimensional array of magnetometric sensors disposed parallel to the outer surface of the
pipe 1102 and spaced a fixed distance, possibly zero, from the pipe 1102. A core circuit board 1108
includes an antenna 1110 and circuits that control the magnetometric sensors 1106, collect data
from the magnetometric sensors 1106 and communicate with other magnetometric sensor units
and/or a base station (not shown) via a wireless communication network.
[00100]                     A set of energy harvesters 1112 generates electricity from a temperature difference
between the pipe 1102 and the ambient environment. Optionally or alternatively, the energy
harvesters 1112 may include photovoltaic cells and/or any other suitable energy harvesting
technology. Optionally or alternatively, a primary battery, with or without an energy harvester, may
be used, if the power needs and lifetime are such that this is a viable alternative. Rechargeable
batteries 1114 may be included to store harvested energy until it is needed by the core circuit board
1108. The energy harvesters 1112 may be arranged in a ring, as shown.
[00101]                     Spacing of the magnetometers 1106 may be selected to achieve a desired
magnetometer density, such as about a 0.3 inch (7.6 mm) inter-magnetometer spacing, i.e., spacing
between adjacent three-axis magnetometer sensors. The inter-magnetometer spacing may be
selected based on the minimum size defect to be detected. The inter-magnetometer spacing should
be selected such that the smallest defect to be detected is spanned by a sufficient number of three
axis magnetometer sensors so as to be able to detect the shape of the defect's signature in the
magnetic field map.
[00102]                     Fig. 12 schematically illustrates a set of magnetometric sensor units 1200 attached to
a pipe 1102. As shown in Fig. 12, several magnetometric sensor units 1200 may be tightly packed
along all or a portion of the length of the pipe 1202. In this embodiment, each energy harvester ring,
exemplified by energy harvester rings 1204, 1206 and 1206, powers two magnetometric sensor
units, one on each side of the energy harvester ring. As schematically shown in Fig. 13, a set of
magnetometric sensor units 1300 may be attached to a pipe 1302 and spaced apart from each other
along the pipe 1302.
[00103]                     Fig. 14 is a close-up view of a magnetometric sensor array 1400, according to
another embodiment. In this embodiment, the array of magnetometric sensors 1400 is disposed
circumferentially or part way around a pipe 1402, as in Figs. 11-13. The array 1400 includes several
array modules, exemplified by array modules 1404, 1406 and 1408. However for clarity, only eight
array modules are shown in Fig. 14. Each array module 1404-1408 may be detachably attached to a
                                                                18
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

pair of circumferential mounting rings 1410 and 1412. Optionally or alternatively, the array of
modules 1404-1408 may be packaged inside a protective housing, as discussed with respect to Figs.
11-13. In some embodiments, additional array modules are attached to the mounting rings 1410 and
1412, so the pipe 1402 is encircled by array modules. However, in other embodiments, array
modules 1404-1408 may cover only a portion of the circumference of the pipe 1402. In some
embodiments, the array modules 1404-1408 may be attached via detachable electric plugs that
facilitate field replacement of the array modules 1404-1408. In some embodiments, the array
modules 1404-1408 are hot swappable.
[00104]                     The array 1400 may be powered by an energy harvester 1414 and may include a
core circuit board 1416. The array 1400 includes a wireless transceiver and antenna (not shown).
[00105]                     In some embodiments, each array module 1404-1408 includes a pair of circuit
boards 1500 and 1502, as shown in Fig. 15. Each circuit board of the pair of circuit boards 1500
1502 includes a row of three-axis magnetometers, exemplified by magnetometers 1504, 1506 and
1508. In some embodiments, each circuit board includes 16 three-axis magnetometers 1504-1508.
[00106]                     Each magnetometric sensor 1504-1508 inside the array module 1500-1502 includes
three magnetometers (equivalently a three-axis magnetometer sensor). The three magnetometers
may be mutually orthogonally oriented, or they may be oriented according to some other known
arrangement. Magnetometer orientation here refers to the axis of primary sensitivity of the
magnetometer. In some embodiments, each array module 1404-1408 (Fig. 14) includes an array,
such as a 16x1 array (as in Fig.15) or a 16x16 array, of three-axis magnetometer sensors.
                                     Pattern Matching to Locate Signatures of Defects
[001071                     As noted, in some embodiments, magnetometric data is searched for any of several
predefined spatial patterns (signatures) that indicate a defect. The patterns may be sinusoidal, and
the length (wavelength) of the sinusoid may be proportional to the size of the defect. In this sense,
the wavelengths of the sinusoids are generally unknown a priori.As described above, rings 1600 of
magnetometric sensors are disposed around the circumference of a pipe 1602 to creating a regular
two-dimensional array of magnetometric sensors disposed parallel to the outer surface of the pipe
1602, as schematically illustrated in Fig. 16. This array of magnetometric sensors produces
magnetometric data. Fig. 17 includes a graph of such magnetometric data from an actual pipe. The
data in Fig. 17 plots component magnetic field strengths detected by x-oriented magnetometers, i.e.,
along the length of the pipe. Fig. 18 plots component magnetic field strengths detected by z-oriented
                                                            19
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

magnetometers, i.e., normal (or nearly normal) to the surface of the pipe. A graph (not shown) plots
component magnetic field strengths detected by y-oriented magnetometers, i.e., perpendicular to the
x-oriented and y-oriented magnetometers.
[00108]                     Each magnetometric sensor (within a sensor unit 1100) (Fig. 11) is disposed at a
given angular position ("clock position"), exemplified at 1604 (Fig. 16), around the ring 1600. In
the embodiment that generated the data for Figs. 17 and 18, each ring includes 18 magnetometric
sensors. However, other numbers of sensors may be used. Each generally horizontal line,
exemplified by lines 1700, 1702 and 1704, represents data from the x-component sensing
magnetometer at a discrete angular position around the pipe. Thus, the vertical axis represents
angular position around the pipe. The horizontal axis represents distance along the length of the
pipe. Thus, points along each line 1700-1704 represent magnetic field strengths along the length of
the pipe. Similarly, figure 18 shows the z-component of the magnetic field in positions collocated
with the data in figure 17. Helical variations in the magnetic field due to pipe manufacturing
processes are evident, as indicated at 1710, 1712, 1800 and 1802. Signatures of a defect are present
at 1714, 1716, 1804 and 1806. How this defect is detected is described below.
[00109]                     Data collected from the magnetometers needs to be processed so that it is
continuously differentiable in the spatial dimensions along the pipe and around the pipe. Standard
approaches are used to fill in gaps in the sensor data and smooth and interpolate the data, such that
spatial partial derivatives can be calculated.
[00110]                     Along each line 1700-1704 in the plot of Fig. 17, and similarly along each line in the
other two component directions (such as Fig. 18, which shows one more of the vector components
of the magnetic field), spatial derivatives (slopes or rates-of-change) are calculated. Figs. 19 and 20
are plots of the derivatives calculated from Figs. 17 and 18, respectively. The motivation for
calculating derivatives is that, while the magnetic signature of the defect and the residual magnetic
field are similar in magnitude, the defects tend to be of smaller extent and have steeper rises and
falls. Hence, a derivative tends to amplify this higher-frequency behavior, and the defect stands out
in both amplitude and wavelength, as compared to the features of the derivative of the residual field.
As can be seen in Fig. 20, for example, most of the traces have a moderate amplitude (hence,
moderate slopes in the magnetic field signal). These are the traces that are in non-defect areas. The
light grey traces 2000 at the center of Fig. 20 are the two traces that cross the defect. It is seen that in
                                                            20
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

this derivative plot, these traces stand out in magnitude from the non-defect (residual) areas,
providing additional information for a detection algorithm to operate on.
[00111]                     An automatic pattern matcher searches the resulting derivatives for portions that
match one of several sine or cosine templates. Each template corresponds to a different spatial
wavelength. Many templates are used, because, as noted, the spatial extent of the defect, hence the
spatial wavelength of the defect's sine and cosine, are not known a priori. The template with the
wavelength that has the strongest correlation to the magnetic field data is used for detection and
characterization of the defect.
[00112]                     The locations of defects ascertained in the three separate analyses, i.e., for the x, y
and z components of the magnetic field, are merged to yield a final defect location and confidence
level.
                                                  Defect Characterization
[001131                     Once the location of a defect has been found, the defect may be characterized in
terms of volume (amount of material lost) and surface extent (at the surface of the pipe or parallel to
the surface of the pipe if the defect is internal to the pipe). In some cases, assumptions are made
about the general shape of a defect. For example, the defect may be assumed to be generally circular
or eliptical on a surface of a pipe or have a vertical profile of some sort. With these sorts of
assumptions, the area and depth of the defect can be approximated.
[00114]                     The z component of the measured magnetic field is normal to the surface of the
ferromagnetic material being measured, as shown in Fig. 21 for a pipe. The amplitude of the z
component of the magnetic field is proportional to the amount of ferromagnetic material lost due to
the defect. Thus, for defects having identical diameters, the z component of the magnetic field is
also proportional to depth of the defect. The graph in Fig. 21 represents three simulated defects, all
of the same diameter at the surface of the pipe (four times the wall thickness of a pipe). Curve 2100
represents a defect whose depth is 30% of the wall thickness of the pipe. Curve 2102 represents a
defect whose depth is 15% of the wall thickness of the pipe. Curve 2104 represents a defect whose
depth is 7% of the wall thickness of the pipe. As can be seen from the graph, the amplitude of the z
component of the magnetic field is related to the depth of the defect. The amplitude of the z
component is more proportional to the volume of the material missed, and for a set of assumptions
on typical shapes of defect growth, the depth of the defect can be inferred. This result can be seen in
all three magnetic field axes. Thus, given a magnetic field component amplitude, the volume of the
                                                              21
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

defect can be determined, presuming the magnetization of the material in known, as further
described below. This information, combined with a defect area and depth profile, allow the
determination of an approximate defect depth,
[00115]                     However, for a given defect depth, the amplitude of any of the components of the
magnetic field increases with an increase in the surface area of the defect. This is to be expected, in
that the amplitude of the signal is proportional to the volume of the defect, and as surface area
increases for a specified depth, the volume of the defect also increases. In Fig. 22, the graph
represents the z-component of the magnetic field for three simulated defects, all having the same
depth (15% of the wall thickness of the pipe). Curve 2200 represents a defect whose diameter is 2
inches (50.8 mm). Curve 2202 represents a defect whose diameter is 1 inch (25.4 mm). Curve 2204
represents a defect whose diameter is 0.5 inch (12.7 mm). As can be seen, with a constant defect
depth, the amplitude of the z component of the magnetic field increases with the surface area of a
defect, due to the defect's volume increasing. However, the increase follows a predictable curve
(since it represents volume), shown at 2206. Consequently, this increase can be accounted for in a
mathematical model. The distance from the valley in the graph to the peak in the graph, indicated as
"extent" 2208, is proportional to the extent of the defect along the direction of the magnetometers
that created the plot.
[00116]                     The strengths of the defect signals are proportional to both the amount of material
missing and the magnetization level of the material. Thus, determining a pipe's magnetization is
useful to determining the volume of the material missing, and thus is useful to characterizations of
area and depth of the defect. The determination of the magnetic field should not be done at the
defect site, but should be done in a nearby, non-defect site. This measure of local "residual" pipe
magnetization enables normalizing defect signals, thereby effectively calibrating the defect volume
and depth calculations. Having located the defects, as described above, a defect detection system
measures the pipe's residual magnetization level, i.e., its magnetization level in an area that does not
include a defect.
[001171                     Fig. 23 is a graph of magnetic field strength along the x axis (longitudinal down the
pipe) proximate a defect in a pipe. All three plots represent the same pipe defect, and all three plots
show the signature of a defect. However, before data for each plot was collected, the pipe was
magnetized to a different degree. For plot 2300, the pipe was magnetized with a coil operated at a
strength of 690 A/m (amps/meter). For plot 2302, the pipe was magnetized at 460 A/m. For plot
                                                              22
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

2304, the pipe was magnetized at 230 A/m. As can be seen from the plots, defect signals increase in
direct proportion to a pipe's magnetization.
[00118]                     One embodiment for measuring the strength of the local, residual field in the pipe is
shown graphically in Fig. 24. For pipes that have leakage paths (often due to them being
inhomogeneous due to manufacturing processes), the z magnetic field (radial with respect to the
pipe's central axis) has a slope down the length of the pipe. This slope is proportional to the
magnetic field strength. The sloped traces in Fig. 24 correspond to the magnetization cases shown in
Fig. 23, with the smallest slope corresponding to the 230 A/m case and the largest slope
corresponding to the 690 A/m case. Under these conditions, the z-component of the magnetic field
provides an independent measure of the residual magnetic field strength in the pipe.
[00119]                     The plots of Fig. 23 have been normalized, according to the residual magnetization
level, yielding plots in Fig. 25, which are numbered to correspond with the plots in Fig. 23. As can
be seen by comparing Figs. 23 and 25, signal amplitude can be made largely independent of pipe
magnetization level by normalizing according to the pipe's residual magnetization level. In this way
magnetic measurement amplitudes can be converted to volume and area, with a calculation of depth
following.
[00120]                     Other methods of determining the residual magnetization level of a pipe are
envisioned. For example, a pipe may be magnetized to a known level when the pipe is installed, or
the pipe may be magnetized to an arbitrary level and the magnetization level may be measured. In
either case, this magnetization level may be stored in a memory accessible by a base station and
used later, when defects have been detected and volume and depth information is desired.
Optionally or alternatively, even if information about a pipe's previous magnetization level is not
stored, once defects have been detected, the magnetometric sensors may be used to measure a pipe's
residual magnetization in one or more areas away from all detected defects using the slope method,
above, or other independent measurement approaches.
[00121]                     As used herein, "standoff' means distance between a defect and a magnetometer, as
schematically illustrated in Fig. 26. Theory and tests show that signal strength falls off according to
an inverse square law when close to a magnetic dipole. If the sensor has a standoff similar in
distance to the characteristic length of the dipole, the dipole appears as two independent poles, and
the signal strength falls of as an inverse square. As the standoff increases, the extent of the dipole
appears to diminish and becomes a point source. Under these conditions, theory and test shows that
                                                            23
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

the signal strength falls off according to an inverse cube law. Thus, small defects have more signal
loss as the standoff moves beyond the size of the defect, while a large defect continue to "enjoy" an
inverse square degradation of its signal for larger standoffs. For example, for a 1 inch (25.4 mm)
square defect, signal loss is greater than about an order of magnitude, when standoff is increased
from 0.25 inch (6.4 mm) to 2.25 inches (51.2 mm). The residual pipe magnetization features fall off
in strength slower due their larger spatial extent. Nevertheless, the apparatus and methods described
herein reliably detect defects expected to be found in conventional pipe, such as those in oil and gas
pipelines, refineries, etc.
[00122]                     Defects within a pipe wall thickness or on an inside wall are necessarily further from
magnetometers than defects on an outside wall of the pipe. However, simulations and tests indicate
only a minor loss of signal from an internal defect, versus an external defect, as indicated in the
plots in Fig. 27. Much of the reduction in signal amplitude is due to the larger standoff implicit in an
internal defect as opposed to an external defect. Plot 2700 is for an external defect, and plot 2702 is
for an internal defect.
[00123]                     As has been shown in the preceding discussion, many of the parameters in the
detected signals have multiple, dependent sources. These dependencies should be understood and
managed when performing detection and characterization of a defect. A relationship is that of sensor
spacing. As implied in Figs. 14 and 15, close spacing of the magnetometric                                 sensors
(magnetometers) is of interest. The spacing of the magnetometers relates to how small a defect (as
measured along the surface) can be detected and characterized. Since the detection method relies on
finding correlations with sine and cosine waves, it is necessary that there be a sufficient number of
magnetometers along the sine wave to determine that it is truly a sine wave. In practice, sensors
spaced 0.3 inch to 0.4 inch (7.6 to 10.2 mm) apart can be used to detect about 1-inch (25.4 mm)
defects at a close (1 inch (25.4 mm) or less) standoff. As standoff increases or the surface
dimensions decrease, the ability to reliably detect a defect decreases, with an increasing likelihood
of missed detections or false alarms.
                                                 Temporal Defect Detection
[00124]                     As noted, in some embodiments of the present invention, rather than searching
magnetometric data for signatures of defects, two datasets collected at different times are compared
to detect defects. For example, one dataset may be collected when an item is new or at some other
point in time. The second dataset is collected later. The two datasets are spatially correlated, and
                                                              24
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

then magnetic field strengths in the second dataset are subtracted from spatially corresponding
magnetic field strengths in the first dataset. These subtractions are performed per axis. Fig. 28 is a
surface plot of the result of such a subtraction, showing the x axis of the magnetic field. A defect
signature is clearly visible, as emphasized by dashed line 2800. The shape of the line 2800 is similar
to the shape of the By curve in Fig. 4 and is, therefore, characteristic of a defect. In practice, the
defect is found following this temporal subtraction by the basic method of the spatial analysis - one
of fitting sine and cosine waves to confirm the remaining signal is a signature of a defect. As
described above, with respect to spatial defect detection, spatial information about defects detected
in each of the three axes may be combined to produce more accurate defect detection information.
The approaches above for characterizing the defect (volume, area and depth) may be applied after
this temporal method.
                                          Physical Scanning an Item for Defects
[00125]                     As noted, magnetometric data about an item may be obtained by a fixed set of
magnetometric sensors disposed about the item. Optionally or alternatively, the item may be
physically scanned by a smaller set of magnetometric sensors than would be otherwise necessary to
obtain the magnetometric data without scanning. The item may be scanned along its longitudinal
axis or along any other suitable direction. Fig. 29 is a perspective illustration of a physical scanner
2900. An item 2902, such as a pipe, may be scanned by the scanner 2900. A single magnetometric
sensor, a small group of magnetometric sensors or a one-dimensional array of magnetometric
sensors 2904 is supported by a one-, two- or three-degree-of-freedom scanner arm 2906. A first
linear motor 2908 positions the array of magnetometric sensors 2904 vertically a suitable distance
from the item 2902. A second linear motor 2910 positions the array of magnetometric sensors 2904
along an axis perpendicular to the scanning axis. A third linear motor 2912 translates the array of
magnetometric sensors 2904 along the scanning axis. Once a scan has been completed, the item
may be rotated about the scan axis, and another scan may be performed. This process may be
repeated until all desired portions of the item have been scanned.
[00126]                     In another embodiment, perspectively illustrated in Fig. 30, a ring of magnetometric
sensors is translated by the physical scanner 3002. In other embodiments, the scan may be two
dimensional. For example, with a suitable physical scanner, the item may be spiral scanned, raster
scanned or scanned according to another path.
                                                            25
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

[001271                     The data collection from the magnetometers, the magnetic field mapper, the pattern
matcher, and base station control functions and other functions described herein may be performed
by a processor executing instructions stored in a memory, as schematically illustrated in Fig. 31.
[00128]                     While    the invention   is described   through the    above-described    exemplary
embodiments, modifications to, and variations of, the illustrated embodiments may be made without
departing from the inventive concepts disclosed herein. Furthermore, disclosed aspects, or portions
thereof, may be combined in ways not listed above and/or not explicitly claimed. Accordingly, the
invention should not be viewed as being limited to the disclosed embodiments.
[00129]                     In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to
specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further
features in various embodiments of the invention.
[00130]                     Although aspects of embodiments may be described with reference to flowcharts
and/or block diagrams, functions, operations, decisions, etc. of all or a portion of each block, or a
combination of blocks, may be combined, separated into separate operations or performed in other
orders. All or a portion of each block, or a combination of blocks, may be implemented as computer
program instructions (such as software), hardware (such as combinatorial logic, Application
Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), Field-Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs) or other
hardware), firmware or combinations thereof. Embodiments may be implemented by a processor
executing, or controlled by, instructions stored in a memory. The memory may be random access
memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), flash memory or any other memory, or combination
thereof, suitable for storing control software or other instructions and data. Instructions defining the
functions of the present invention may be delivered to a processor in many forms, including, but not
limited to, information permanently stored on tangible non-writable storage media (e.g., read-only
memory devices within a computer, such as ROM, or devices readable by a computer 1/0
attachment, such as CD-ROM or DVD disks), information alterably stored on tangible writable
storage media (e.g., floppy disks, removable flash memory and hard drives) or information
conveyed to a computer through a communication medium, including wired or wireless computer
networks. Moreover, while embodiments may be described in connection with various illustrative
data structures, systems may be embodied using a variety of data structures.
                                                             26
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

                                                     CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
        1. A method for detecting defects in a ferromagnetic material, the method comprising:
              disposing a plurality of magnetometers about a surface of the ferromagnetic material,
wherein each magnetometer of the plurality of magnetometers is fixed in position, relative to the
ferromagnetic material;
              using the plurality of magnetometers to sense a magnetic field generated by the
ferromagnetic material at a first point in time;
              generating data points of a first two-dimensional map from the sensed magnetic field, each
data point corresponding to a respective location on the surface of the ferromagnetic material and
representing strength of the sensed magnetic field proximate the location at the first point in time;
              using the plurality of magnetometers to sense the magnetic field generated by the
ferromagnetic material at a second point in time, later than the first point in time,
              generating data points of a second two-dimensional map from the sensed magnetic field,
each data point corresponding to a respective location on the surface of the ferromagnetic material
and representing strength of the sensed magnetic field proximate the location at the second point in
time;
              subtracting the data points of the second two-dimensional map from spatially corresponding
data points of the first two-dimensional map, thereby yielding a difference two-dimensional map;
              identifying, in the difference two-dimensional map, a plurality of data points that conform to
a predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field strength; and
              outputting a location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material that corresponds to
the plurality of data points.
        2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the subtracting is performed per axis.
                                                         27
10268806_1 (GHMatters)P104631.AU.1

        3.     A method according to claim 1, further comprising estimating a volume of material missing
               from the ferromagnetic material at the location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic
               material, based on amplitude of a feature represented by data in the plurality of data points.
        4. A method according to claim 3, further comprising estimating a depth of the missing
               material, based on the estimated volume of missing material and length in two spatial
               directions of a feature represented by data in the plurality of data points.
        5. A method according to claim 1, further comprising:
              determining amplitude of the magnetic field generated by the ferromagnetic material at a
location distant from the location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material, based on at
least one of the data points of the map; and
              estimating a volume of material missing from the ferromagnetic material at the location
proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material, according to amplitude of data in the plurality
of data points and the amplitude of the magnetic field generated by the ferromagnetic material at a
location distant from the location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material.
        6. A method according to claim 5, further comprising estimating an area of the missing
               material, based on length in two spatial directions of a feature represented by data in the
               plurality of data points.
        7. A method according to claim 5, further comprising estimating a depth of the missing
               material, based on the estimated volume of missing material and length in two spatial
               directions of a feature represented by data in the plurality of data points.
        8. A method according to claim 1, wherein identifying the plurality of data points that
               conform to the predefined spatial pattern comprises fitting at least one of a sine curve and a
               cosine curve to the plurality of data points.
        9. A method according to claim 1, further comprising:
                                                          28
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

              calculating a plurality of spatial derivative values from the data points of the difference two
dimensional map; and wherein:
              identifying the plurality of data points that conform to a predefined spatial pattern comprises
identifying a plurality of data points that conform to the predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field
strength from the plurality of spatial derivative values.
        10. A method according to claim 1, wherein identifying the plurality of data points that
               conform to a predefined spatial pattern comprises identifying a plurality of data points that
               corresponds to a loss of a portion of the ferromagnetic material due to corrosion or erosion.
        11. A method according to claim 1, wherein identifying the plurality of data points that
               conform to a predefined spatial pattern comprises identifying a plurality of data points that
               corresponds to a crack in the ferromagnetic material.
        12. A method according to claim 1, wherein disposing the plurality of magnetometers
               comprises disposing the plurality of magnetometers on a cylindrical surface that surrounds
               an outer surface of the ferromagnetic material.
        13. A method according to claim 1, wherein disposing the plurality of magnetometers
               comprises disposing the plurality of magnetometers on a cylindrical surface, such that the
               plurality of magnetometers defines a cylindrical lumen sized to receive the ferromagnetic
               material.
        14. A method according to claim 1, wherein disposing the plurality of magnetometers
               comprises organizing the plurality of magnetometers as a two-dimensional array of
               magnetometers wrapped around the ferromagnetic material.
        15. A method according to claim 1, wherein disposing the plurality of magnetometers
               comprises           organizing the plurality of magnetometers   as a plurality of rings of
               magnetometers,           including spacing apart the plurality of rings of magnetometers
               longitudinally along the ferromagnetic material, such that each ring of the plurality of rings
               of magnetometers surrounds the ferromagnetic material.
                                                            29
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

        16. A method according to claim 1, wherein:
              each magnetometer of the plurality of magnetometers comprising three orthogonally
oriented magnetometers;
              generating the data points comprises generating the data points such that each data point of
the respective first and second two-dimensional map represents strength of the sensed magnetic
field in each of three orthogonal directions; and
              identifying the plurality of data points that conform to the predefined spatial pattern
comprises, for each of the three orthogonal directions, identifying a plurality of data points that
conform to a predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field strength and a location proximate the
surface of the ferromagnetic material that corresponds to the plurality of data points, thereby
identifying three locations proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material; the method further
comprising:
              calculating a refined location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material from the
three identified locations; and wherein:
              outputting the location comprises outputting the refined location.
        17. A method according to claim 1, wherein disposing the plurality of magnetometers
               comprises disposing the plurality of magnetometers on a surface that extends less than
               circumferentially around an outer surface of the ferromagnetic material.
        18. A method according to claim 1, wherein disposing the plurality of magnetometers
               comprises organizing the plurality of magnetometers as a two-dimensional array of
               magnetometers.
        19. A method for detecting defects in a ferromagnetic material, the method comprising:
              sensing a magnetic field generated by the ferromagnetic material at a first point in time;
                                                        30
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

              generating data points of a first two-dimensional map from the sensed magnetic field, each
data point corresponding to a respective location on the surface of the ferromagnetic material and
representing strength of the sensed magnetic field proximate the location at the first point in time;
              sensing the magnetic field generated by the ferromagnetic material at a second point in time,
later than the first point in time;
              generating data points of a second two-dimensional map from the sensed magnetic field,
each data point corresponding to a respective location on the surface of the ferromagnetic material
and representing strength of the sensed magnetic field proximate the location at the second point in
time;
              subtracting the data points of the second two-dimensional map from spatially corresponding
data points of the first two-dimensional map, thereby yielding a difference two-dimensional map;
              identifying, in the difference two-dimensional map, a plurality of data points that conform to
a predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field strength; and
              outputting a location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material that corresponds to
the plurality of data points; wherein:
              sensing the magnetic field comprises sensing the magnetic field with a plurality of
magnetometers,                  each magnetometer of the plurality of magnetometers       comprising    three
orthogonally oriented magnetometers;
              generating the data points comprises generating the data points such that each data point of
the respective first and second two-dimensional map represents strength of the sensed magnetic
field in each of three orthogonal directions; and
              identifying the plurality of data points that conform to the predefined spatial pattern
comprises, for each of the three orthogonal directions, identifying a plurality of data points that
conform to a predefined spatial pattern of magnetic field strength and a location proximate the
surface of the ferromagnetic material that corresponds to the plurality of data points, thereby
                                                         31
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

identifying three locations proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material; the method further
comprising:
              calculating a refined location proximate the surface of the ferromagnetic material from the
three identified locations; and wherein:
              outputting the location comprises outputting the refined location.
                                                        32
10268806_1 (GHMatter) P104631.AU.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
