ABSTRACT
A novelty nail trimming tool 10 includes a metal chassis 11 comprising a base 12 a neck section
13 and a head section 14. The head section 14 includes a pair of guards 15 and 16 which are
also configured as the eyes or feelers of a snail.The base 12 has a knurled or roughened
surface 17 forming a nail file. The head 14 has a v-blade 18, while the neck 13 is set at an angle
of about 30 degrees to the base. A handle 19 in the form of a snail shell 20 is attached to the
base 12 by a hand insertable clip action into three slots 21, 22 and 23 by reason of upturns 24,
25 and 26 in the base 12.

                                                 1
 Novelty Nail Cutting or Trimming Tool
TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001] This invention relates to nail trimmers and in particular but not limited to nail trimmers for
babies and infants.
 BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0002] Hand tools are known which can be used for cutting or trimming nails. These are
 unusually known as nail clippers or trimmers and are known in a variety of forms. One form uses
a scissor action with scissor blades. The blades may be curved. Another form uses a press
 lever where sprung jaws slide relative to each other on a guide and the lever is used to close the
jaws over a nail to be trimmed. Each jaw has a curved blade. In another version a v-blade is
 used and is slid along a nail to trim an edge of the nail. These all may be made in different sizes
with smaller sizes being for smaller nails. Each of these has their different advantages.
[0003] Trimming small babies fingernails and toenails can be a very daunting and difficult task.
Traditionally nail clippers, or baby scissors have been used for the difficult task of cutting nails. It
 is very hard to see what is actually being cut, they are very slippery and difficult to hold and
maneuver and it can often result in injury to the child's fingers.
[0004] It would be desirable to provide a hand tool for trimming infant nails that takes some of
the stress and anxiety out of this process for both parent and infant.
OUTLINE OF THE INVENTION
[0005] In one aspect therefore the present invention resides in a novelty nail cutting or trimming
tool employing at one end a cutting blade arrangement employing as an essential feature fixed
blades and at the other end a handle arrangement, the tool having a novelty aspect to amuse
and comfort a child or infant, the novelty aspect being so made and arranged that it aids in the

                                                  2
functional operation of cutting nails. In a prefered form there is provided a nail cutting or
trimming tool being a toy like nail care tool having a trimming blade at the one end with a safety
guard adjacent the trimming blade.
[0006] Preferably, the one end that comprises a cutting blade arrangement is configured as a
novelty part to amuse and comfort and the other end comprising the handle arrangement
comprises a second novelty part to amuse and comfort, each of the novelty parts being
recognisable as anatomically significant, the configuration dimensions and relative disposition
of the handle arrangement and the cutting blade arrangement being so made and arranged that
they aid in the operation of cutting nails. In terms of being anatomically significant it is preferable
the one end having the cutting blade arrangement correspond to a "head" end and the other end
comprising the handle arrangement comprises a "rear" end so that the tool has anatomically
significant and recognisable head and rear. For example, the rear may include a tail. The tail
may be shaped as an under nail cleaner thus performing a dual function. Where a cutting guard
is employed these may be formed as eyes thus performing a dual function. There may be what
is perceived as a "neck" between what is perceived as a "torso" or main body and the neck may
functionally aid in manipulation of the tool, thus providing a dual function. Thus the "tail", "head",
"neck" and "body" preferably act in combination to function as a nail cutting or trimming tool.
[0007] In the present specification the word "novelty" is intended to mean toy, plaything or
amusement and the relationship between the cutting blades and the handle and the novelty
aspect gives rise to functional operation of the tool. In one example cutting blades have adjacent
protruding eyes which also serve as a protective guard for adjacent fingers and toes. In another
example the handle is configured as a snail shell but the shell is sized to aid manipulation of the
tool. In another example the shell has a front projection that aids digital manipulation. In another
aspect the tool has a under nail cleaning projection adjacent to the handle and being
manipulable by the handle.
[0008] Preferably, the cutting blade arrangement is configured as a creature head or part of a
head and the handle arrangement is configured as a creature body. These can be real or
abstract but as long as they achieve the goal of amusing and comforting, as a precursor to the
task of cutting or trimming nails, then, subject of course to the adult's attitude, the exercise of

                                                3
nail trimming can be fun. The cutting blade arrangement may include a pair of blades. These
may be fixed blades in a v-configuration.
[0009] Preferably, in functional terms the handle includes a narrow part proximal the blades and
a relatively wide part remote from the blades.
[0010] Preferably, the tool comprises a handle mounted to a chassis, the chassis having a
longitudinal axis with a base and a neck terminating at a cutting head, there being a juncture
between the base and the neck such that neck extends from and is inclined to the base, the
handle at an end opposite to the head having a narrow aspect substantially across a central
longitudinal plane of the tool and a wide aspect substantially along the central longitudinal plane
of the tool, the handle tapering in the region of the juncture between the base and the neck.
Preferably, the tool does not have any moving parts and the tool has a nail file and a nail
cleaning projection, both adjacent to the handle arrangement.
[0011] The present invention provides a much easier, safer and faster way to trim nails. In one
preferred embodiment it is a three in one (3-in-1) nail care tool. Typically, functionally, it has a
trimming blade with a safety guard, a nail file and an under nail cleaner. In this embodiment it
provides a complete and compact nail care system. While it has a novelty feature embodied in
its functional operation it is a personal hygiene and care tool, to be used by adults and is not a
toy thus the use of the expression "toy-like."
[0012] Preferably, it has no moving parts and makes not harsh sounds. It is long lasting and
durable, and in a further preferred form has as its novelty aspect a snail having the following
features:
*        The trimming blade or the 'head' of the snail is a v-shaped metal blade with folded up
'eyes' that act as a safety guard so to protect the other fingers / toes. The blade makes it very
easy to see the exact width of nail being trimmed and can easily follow the natural curve of the
nail bed.
*        The 'neck' can carry product name and there is space also on the underside for
branding.

                                                  4
*       The 'shell' is rounded and has a flatter part near the neck and is taller at the back. This
ergonomic design allows maneuverability, safe grip and handling. It is covered with rubber and
the rubber makes it easy to grip. It fits well in the hand of the adult.
e       The nail file is on the underside or base and may be used to assist in trimming rough or
sharp nail edges.
*       The under nail cleaner may be at a rear end and can be used to remove dirt and
grime from underneath fingernails and toenails and also lift out ingrown nails to then cut
them.
a       It is not a choking hazard due to the length of tool which in a preferred case is about 60
mm long.
*       It can be made to be dishwasher safe and be shaped and dimensioned to be cleaned
on the top shelf of a dishwasher or in warm soapy water.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0013] In order that the present invention may be more readily understood and be put into
practical effect reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings which illustrate one
preferred embodiment of the invention and wherein:
Figure 1 is a front view;
Figure 2 is a front perspective view from above and to the left side;
Figure 3 is a top view;
Figure 4 is a view from the left side;
Figure 5 is a bottom perspective view from the left side and from below; and
Figure 6 is a bottom view
PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
[0014] Referring to the drawings there is Illustrated a preferred embodiment of the present
invention as applied to a novelty snail aspect.

                                                  5
[0015] It will it be appreciated that when compared to the prior art that the present invention as
Illustrated in the figures is amusing and is likely to comfort an infant when it comes to cutting
nails. The "snail" (nail) cutting time can be fun.
[0016] The tool 10 may be made from any materials and may be molded as a whole unit,
depending upon the novelty aspects chosen, in the present embodiment the tool 10 includes a
metal chassis 11 comprising a base 12 a neck section 13 and a head section 14. The head
section 14 includes a pair of guards 15 and 16 which are also configured as the eyes or feelers
of a snail.
[0017] The base 12 has a knurled or roughened surface 17 forming a nail file. The head 14 has
a v-blade 18, while the neck 13 is set at an angle of about 30 degrees to the base.
[0018] A handle 19 in the form of a snail shell 20 is attached to the base 12 by a hand insertable
clip action into three slots 21, 22 and 23 by reason of upturns 24, 25 and 26 in the base 12. The
assembly is then ultrasonically welded to give a secure coupling but any process may be
employed.
[0019] The handle 19 has a complex curved upper surface 27 leading from a top 28 into a flatter
front section 29 so that the surface 28 and the section 30 of the shell essentially forms a disc
section section of the handle while the section 29 essentially provides for a an extra lead in
section of the handle so that together they facilitate ease of manipulation. The handle is narrow
at the front and wide at the rear along the central plane of the handle and the v-blade while
being wider at the front and narrower at the rear across the handle.
[0020] Of course depending upon the location and position of the nail to be cut the operator may
utilise any part of the tool in order to achieve the desirable cut.
[0021] In addition, in the present embodiment the handle includes a snail tail 31 which has a
pointed end used as a nail cleaning tool 32. Again the handle is used to manipulate the cleaning
tool 32.

                                                    6
[0022] While the handle may be a moulded form made as a single piece suitably moulded or it
may be made from two moulded parts that fit together, in the preferred embodiment, it is
preferable that it also includes a rubber or other similar cover that elastically stretches over the
moulded form or may be formed in the moulding process as a softened outer. As a removable
cover it facilitates different colours or for different shapes and designs to be incorporated into
the snail shell. Thus it could have a "smiley face" or any other decorative effect that would aid in
amusing and comforting an infant.
[0023] Other aspects of the preferred embodiment are as follows:
[0024] Typical materials and colours may include:
*        Medical grade stainless steel -     natural silver colour
*        Plastic -   light turquoise blue colour
*        Rubber - white colour
[0025] Typical dimensions are:
*        Length: 63.24 mm
*        Height: 23.56 mm
*       Width: 15.56 mm
*       Weight: 7.5 grams
[0026] Typical Manufacturing Process includes:
e       The metal is folded and cut, surface is ground down to form cutting edge.
*        Metal trimmer is ultrasonically welded to plastic shell.
*        Plastic injected molded shell frame with rubber over molding.
*       Acid etched nail file texture.
0        Logo engraved on underside of metal 'neck'.
[0027] Whilst the above has been given by way of illustrative example of the present invention
many variations and modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing
from the broad ambit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

                                                  7
CLAIMS
1. A novelty nail cutting or trimming tool employing at one end a cutting blade arrangement
employing fixed blades and at the other end a handle arrangement, the tool having a novelty
aspect to amuse and comfort a child or infant, the novelty aspect being so made and arranged
that it aids in the functional operation of cutting nails.
2. A novelty nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 wherein the one end comprising a
cutting blade arrangement is configured as a novelty part to amuse and comfort and the other
end comprising the handle arrangement is a second novelty part to amuse and comfort, the
configuration dimensions and relative disposition of the handle arrangement and the cutting
arrangement being so made and arranged that the arrangements aid in the functional operation
of cutting nails.
3. A novelty nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the one end
comprising a cutting blade arrangement is configured as a snail head with eyes and the handle
is configured as a snail shell.
4. A novelty nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 wherein the tool comprises a
handle mounted to a chassis, the chassis having a longitudinal axis with a base and a neck
terminating at a cutting head, there being a juncture between the base and the neck such that
neck extends from and is inclined to the base, the handle at an end opposite to the head having
a narrow aspect substantially across a central longitudinal plane of the tool and a wide aspect
substantially along the central longitudinal plane of the tool, the handle tapering in the region of
the juncture between the base and the neck.
5. A novelty nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 having no moving parts and
wherein the tool has a nail file and an under-nail cleaning projection adjacent the handle
arrangement.

                                                8
6. A nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 being a three in one toy like nail care tool
further having a nail file and an under nail cleaner adjacent the handle, the one end being a
toy-like head end and the other end being a toy-like tail end.
7. A nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 wherein the one end is spaced from the
other end by a neck section, the configuration dimensions and relative disposition of the handle
and the cutting arrangement being so made and arranged that the arrangements aid in the
functional operation of cutting nails using the neck section.
8. A nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 wherein the one end comprising a cutting
blade arrangement is configured as a snail head with a safety guard in the form of projecting
snail eyes and the handle is configured as a snail shell.
9. A nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 wherein the one end comprising a cutting
blade arrangement is spaced from the other end by a neck section the configuration dimensions
and relative disposition of the handle arrangement and the cutting arrangement being so made
and arranged that the arrangements aid in the functional operation of cutting nails and wherein
the one end comprising a cutting blade arrangement is configured as a snail head with a safety
guard in the form of projecting snail eyes and the handle is configured as a snail shell.
10. A nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 where the blades are fixed blades in a
v-configuration.
11. A nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 wherein the handle is configured to aid
manipulation of the tool and having a front projection that aids digital manipulation.
12. A nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 wherein the cutting blade arrangement is
configured as a head or part of a head and the handle arrangement is configured as a body.
13. A nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 wherein the handle includes a narrow part
proximal the blades and a relatively wide part remote from the blades, the handle being
mounted to a chassis, the chassis having a longitudinal axis with a base and a neck terminating

                                                9
at a cutting head, there being a juncture between the base and the neck such that neck extends
from and is inclined to the base, the handle at an end opposite to the head having a narrow
aspect substantially across a central longitudinal plane of the tool and a wide aspect
substantially along the central longitudinal plane of the tool, the handle tapering in the region of
the juncture between the base and the neck.
14. A nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 wherein the handle includes a narrow
part proximal the blades and a relatively wide part remote from the blades, the handle being
mounted to a chassis, the chassis having a longitudinal axis with a base and a neck terminating
at a cutting head, there being a juncture between the base and the neck such that neck extends
from and is inclined to the base, the handle at an end opposite to the head having a narrow
aspect substantially across a central longitudinal plane of the tool and a wide aspect
substantially along the central longitudinal plane of the tool, the handle tapering in the region of
the juncture between the base and the neck, functionally, the tool has a trimming blade with a
safety guard, a nail file and an under nail cleaner.
15. A nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 wherein the handle includes a narrow
part proximal the blades and a relatively wide part remote from the blades, the handle being
mounted to a chassis, the chassis having a longitudinal axis with a base and a neck terminating
at a cutting head, there being a juncture between the base and the neck such that neck extends
from and is inclined to the base, the handle at an end opposite to the head having a narrow
aspect substantially across a central longitudinal plane of the tool and a wide aspect
substantially along the central longitudinal plane of the tool, the handle tapering in the region of
the juncture between the base and the neck, the tool having a nail file on the chassis and an
under-nail cleaning projection adjacent the handle arrangement.
16. A nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 wherein a trimming blade is configured as
the 'head' of a snail and is a v-shaped metal blade with folded up 'eyes' that act as a safety
guard, and being the width of a nail being trimmed and positioned to easily follow the natural
curve of a nail bed.

                                               10
17. A nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 wherein the cutting blade arrangement
comprises a trimming blade is configured as the "head" of a snail and is a v-shaped metal blade
with folded up "'eyes" that act as a safety guard, and being the width of a nail being trimmed
and positioned to easily follow the natural curve of a nail bed, and further wherein the handle
arrangement is configured as a "shell" of the snail, there being a "neck" extending from the
"shell", the "shell" being rounded and has a flatter part near the neck and is taller remote from
the neck.
18. A nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 wherein the handle arrangement has a
cover of rubber like material to improve grip.
19. A nail cutting or trimming tool according to claim 1 wherein a nail file is on an underside or
base and may be used to assist in trimming rough or sharp nail edges.



