                                        -15
                                     Abstract
In an aspect, there is provided a method for stabilising a blast hole, the method
including: feeding a delivery apparatus having a rotatable head supported by a
material delivery conduit toward an end of the blast hole; delivering cementitious
material from the rotatable head to an internal wall of hole; and withdrawing the
delivery apparatus from the hole such that the cementitious material forms a coat on
the internal wall of the hole. Further methods and an associated system are also
disclosed.

                                1/2
                                                     14
___
        IVI-
             /~
                  d
                     __
                     Vf
                         ____jI
                                    /It\7
                                                                  __
    _             x-                   ~-   -\_      __        _
    INm                           _                     __
                           42$/it0                         //-_1W
                     22                   --    18
                                                 24
                                                         16
                S                                         28
                                          15       26
                        FIGURE 1

                                             -1
                     A method and System for Lining a Blast Hole
Related Applications
[001]   This application claims priority from Australian provisional patent application
No. <removed-apn> filed on 10 January 2016, the contents of which are incorporated by
reference.
Technical Field
[002]   The invention relates to a method and a system for the lining of a blast hole, in
particular, a blast hole in a vertical roof of a mine.
Background
[003]   In underground mining, drill rigs are used to drill holes into the roof of the
underground roadways with diameters of about 55mm to 110mm at varying angles
ranging from horizontal to vertical. The holes are drilled to provide an opening for
explosives to be placed inside for blasting rock away. The holes can potentially be left
open without having explosives placed inside for months at a time.
[004]   During this time the drilled holes may become susceptible to weathering,
squeezing, and water ingress, potentially decaying and blocking the holes. If these
holes become blocked, they may require redrilling, which is expensive and time
consuming.
[005]   Accordingly, attempts have been made at developing methods by which the
drilled bore holes can be stabilised. AU 2009295660 describes a method of stabilising
blast holes prior to detonation that comprises coating the inner wall of the blast hole
with a stabilising composition, such as a two part resin, by means of a movable
spraying applicator.

                                           -2
[006] A problem with this method is that the resin is very brittle due to the thickness
at which it has to be applied and the chemical composition. Further, the fast setting
time of the resin creates application problems within the mixing chamber located at
the spray head, creating delays and equipment issues. Yet another problem relates to
the height and ease to which the spraying applicator may be inserted into the hole as
the weight of the applicator can be bulky and heavy with the use of two separate hoses
to carry two liquid components. Moreover, pushing the spraying equipment up
vertically to lengths of greater than 30m can cause a problem.
[007] The invention disclosed herein seeks to overcome one or more of the above
identified problems or at least provide a useful alternative.
Summary
[008] In accordance with a first broad aspect there is provided, a method for
stabilising a blast hole, the method including: feeding a delivery apparatus having a
rotatable head supported by a material delivery conduit toward an end of the blast
hole; delivering a cementitious material from the rotatable head to an internal wall of
hole; and withdrawing the delivery apparatus from the hole such that the cementitious
material forms a coat on the internal wall of the hole.
[009] In an aspect, the method includes the step of: introducing pressurised air into
the delivery apparatus so as to cause the rotatable head to rotate.
[0010] In another aspect, the method includes the step of: mixing a two-part feed
material to form the cementitious material and pumping the mixed cementitious
material through the material delivery conduit to the delivery apparatus.
[0011] In yet another aspect, the method includes the step of: actuating a drive
apparatus to feed and withdraw the conduit and the rotatable head carried thereby to
and from the hole.
[0012] In yet another aspect, the material delivery conduit is drawn from a storage
reel by the drive apparatus.

                                            -3
[0013] In yet another aspect, the coat substantially covers the internal wall of the hole.
[0014] In yet another aspect, the coat is in the range of about 2 mm to 12 in thickness,
and preferably about 2 mm to 4mm in thickness.
[0015] In yet another aspect, the coat is at least partially flexible in a set condition.
[0016] In yet another aspect, the method includes the step of: introducing pressurised
cementitious material to the rotatable head, and wherein the rotatable head is adapted
to flick the cementitious material outwardly toward the internal wall of hole.
[0017] In accordance with a second broad aspect there is provided, a method for
stabilising a blast hole, the method including: moving a delivery head supported by a
delivery conduit upward toward an end of the hole; introducing a pressurised
cementitious mixture at the delivery head and rotating the delivery head so as to
deliver the cementitious mixture to an internal surface of the hole; and withdrawing,
under control, the delivery head from the hole such that the rotating spray of
cementitious mixture substantially coats the internal surface of the hole.
[0018] In accordance with a third broad aspect there is provided, a method for
stabilising a bore hole, the method including: moving a delivery head supported by a
delivery conduit toward an end of the hole; introducing a pressurised cementitious
mixture at the delivery head and rotating the delivery head such that fingers of the
delivery head urge the cementitious mixture toward an internal surface of the hole;
and withdrawing, under control, the delivery head from the hole such that the
cementitious mixture substantially coats the internal surface of the hole.
[0019] In accordance with a fourth broad aspect there is provided, a system for
stabilising a blast hole in a mine roof, the system including: a delivery apparatus
adapted to fit within the hole, the delivery apparatus including a body supporting a
rotatable head; a delivery conduit adapted to support and move the delivery apparatus
within the hole, the delivery conduit adapted to carry a cementitious product and a
pressurised air supply; a drive apparatus adapted to engage with the delivery conduit

                                            -4
so as to move the delivery conduit and delivery apparatus carried thereby within the
hole; and a mixing and pump arrangement               adapted to supply a pressurised
cementitious product to the delivery apparatus via the delivery conduit, wherein the
rotatable head is driven by the pressurised air supply such that in use the cementitious
product is delivered so as to substantially coat the internal surface of the hole.
[0020] In an aspect, the delivery conduit is adapted to house a cementitious product
supply conduit and a pressurised air supply conduit.
[0021] In another aspect, the rotatable head includes fingers adapted to flick the
cementitious product during rotation toward the internal surface of the blast hole.
[0022] In yet another aspect, the drive apparatus is a hose pusher.
[0023] In yet another aspect, the mixing and pump arrangement is adapted to mix at
least two parts to form the cementitious product prior to entry into the delivery
conduit.
[0024] In yet another aspect, the at least two parts include a Part A including greater
than 20% Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC) or Calcium Aluminate Cement (CAC),
and a Part B including a latex emulsion not less than 10% solids or greater than 50%
solids by weight.
[0025] In yet another aspect, the mixing and pump arrangement is located outside of
the blast hole.
[0026] In yet another aspect, the rotatable head is adapted to urge the cementitious
product toward the internal surface of the blast hole during rotation.
Brief Description of the Figures
[0027] The invention is described, by way of non-limiting example only, by reference
to the accompanying figures, in which;

                                            -5
[0028] Figure 1 is a side view illustrating a system for lining of a bore hole; and
[0029] Figure 2 is a side view illustrating a delivery head for lining of the borehole.
Detailed Description
System
[0030] Referring to Figures 1 and 2 there is shown a system 10 for the lining or
coating of an internal wall or surface 11 of a bore hole 12. In this example the bore
hole 12 is preferably drilled or formed for the purposes of a blast hole in the roof 13
of a mine passage 15. The lining or coating is provided to stabilise the blast hole to
inhibit collapse or blockage of the blast hole.
[0031] The system 10 includes a delivery apparatus 14, a mixing and pump apparatus
16 and a delivery line, tube or conduit 18 extending between the mixing and pump
apparatus    16 and the delivery apparatus 14. The system 10 further includes
mechanical aid 19 in the form of a drive apparatus 20 adapted to move the delivery
conduit 18 and the delivery apparatus 14 in a controlled manner inwardly and
outwardly of the bore hole 12. The drive apparatus 20 may be carried by a machine 22
such as a loader 23 having a lifting arm 25 and a cage 27. Other means to support or
locate the drive apparatus 20 are also possible.
[0032] The mixing and pump apparatus 16 may include a pump 24 and a mixer 26
having a mixing bowl 28 arranged to mix a base cementitious material with water or
other agent to provide a wetted cementitious product that is pumpable by the pump 24
through the conduit 18 at pressure to the delivery apparatus 14. The pump 24 may be
pneumatically powered by available underground services.
[0033] The delivery line or conduit 18 may be rigid enough to be self supporting and
support the delivery apparatus 14 that is pushed upwards through the hole 12 by the
conduit 18 that is in turn driven by the drive apparatus 20.        In this example, the
conduit 18 houses a cementitious product delivery conduit 21 and an air-supply line
30 extending inside the conduit 18. The cementitious product delivery conduit 21

                                           -6
feeds the delivery apparatus 14 and the air-supply line 30 powers the delivery
apparatus 14. The conduit 18 may be a 2-inch a polyethylene pipe, the cementitious
product delivery conduit 21 may be a 3/4-inch a polyethylene pipe and the air-supply
line 30 may be a 10mm Nylon air line.
[0034] The delivery line or conduit 18 may be formed from a plastic material, such as
a substantially rigid plastic material to as to support and allow pushing of the the
delivery apparatus 14. However, the delivery line or conduit 18 is also flexible enough
to be wraps onto a reel 32 from which the delivery line or conduit 18 is drawn and
stored. The delivery line or conduit 18 housing the cementitious product delivery
conduit 21 and the air-supply line 30 allows for a single conduit to be handled and
driven by the drive apparatus 20.
[0035] The drive apparatus 20 may be provided in the form of a hose pusher 40
having a set of spaced apart wheels 42 that engage with the conduit 18 to extend and
retract the conduit 18 from the hole 12. The hose pusher 40 may be powered via
hydraulic pressure supplied by the machine 22 to rotate the wheels 42 in a forward or
reverse direction. The hose pusher 40 allows for a controlled and smooth insertion
and removal of the conduit 18 and the delivery apparatus 14 coupled thereto, into and
out of the hole 12. The hose pusher 40 may be capable of pushing about 400
Kilograms. A suitable hose pusher may be available from Bagela Baumaschinen
GmbH      &   Co.   KG    and   such   hose   pushers  have   are   controllable   in a
forward/reverse/neutral condition via a hydraulic control valve (not shown).
[0036] Referring more specifically to Figure 2, turning to the delivery apparatus 14 in
more detail, the delivery apparatus 14 includes a hollow body 50 having a first end 52
coupled to the conduit 18 and air-supply line 30, and a second end 54 that supports a
rotating or spinning head assembly 56.
[0037] The body 50 supports guide arms 58 that assist to guide and support the
delivery apparatus 14 within the hole 12. The hollow body 50 receives the
cementitious material and directs the material to the spinning head assembly 56. A
suitable delivery apparatus 14 is commercially available from J.& F. Tools Ltd.

                                           -7
[0038] The spinning head assembly 56 includes a body 58 that receives and directs
the stream of cementitious product and a rotating part or spinning head 60 having a
series of fingers 62 that rotate about a lengthwise axis of the delivery apparatus 14.
The air-supply line 30 provides pressured air to power and rotate the spinning head
60.
[0039] The rotating head 60 includes a series of fingers 62 being arranged to
distribute or "flick" a spiralling or circular spray of the pressurised stream of
cementitious product toward and against the inside wall 11 of the bore hole 12. The
body 58 directs the cementitious product at or toward the spinning head 60, namely
the fingers 62, and the fingers 62 impact and urge the cementitious product at or
toward the inside wall 11 of the bore hole 12. In this example, the delivery apparatus
 14 is light-weight, being, for example, 2kg, and may have a small diameter of about
50mm. The head 60 may spin at about or over 1000 rpm.
[0040] The cementitious product may be a two-part product or mixture having a
powder component and a liquid component. The mixture is adapted to provide a
polymer modified membrane for surface sealing and weathering protection of rock
and coal strata. The cementitious product is flexible and suitable to be provided as a
thin coat to the inside wall 11 of the hole 12. The powder component includes
Calcium Aluminates and the liquid component includes a water based polymer.
[0041] In more detail, the cementitious product may be formed from a Part A or first
Part containing greater than 20% Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC) and/or Calcium
Aluminate Cement (CAC). It may also contain Calcium Sulfoaluminate Cement or a
Geopolymer system based on Fly ash, Silica Fume, Blast Furnace Slag or Mata
kaolin. The Part B or second part is a liquid part including a latex emulsion not less
than about 10% solids or greater than about 50% solids by weight. The latex is based
on a Carboxylated Styrene Butadiene Copolymer (SBR). It could also be based on a
pure acrylic emulsion, an acrylic copolymer or polyvinyl acetate (PVA). The balance
of the liquid part may be made up of water. The Part A and Part B are mixed via the
technical data of the cementitious product is provided below in Table 1.

                                          -8
Typical Application                          2 - 12mm
Maximum Thickness                            40mm
Density                                      1900kg/m3
Application Temperature                      0 - 45 0 C
Bond Strength (7 Days) (Concrete/Coal)       > 1.7 Mpa
                                             Substrate failure
Compressive Strength                         >50 MPa
Tensile Strength (7 Days)                    >3.5 MPa
Flexural Strength (7 Days)                   > 7.0 MPa
Elongation at break (7d)                     > 60%
Flammability                                 Self extinguishing
Table 1: Technical Data for Cementitious product
Method
[0042] Turning now to a method of use. A method for stabilising the blast hole 12
may include moving or feeding the delivery apparatus 14 supported by the delivery
conduit 18 upward toward an end 17 of the hole 12. The drive apparatus 20 is
activated to move the delivery conduit 18 upwardly so that the delivery apparatus 14
is likewise moved upward toward an end 17 of the hole 12 that may be in the range of
about 5 to 50 meters above the roof 13.
[0043] Once the delivery apparatus 14 is located toward the end 17 of the hole 12, the
cementitious material is introduced into the conduit 18 using the pump and mixing
apparatus 16 and the spinning head 60 is rotated by the pressurised air to deliver via
"flicking" a rotating spray of the cementitious mixture to the internal walls 11 of the
hole 12. The spray apparatus 14 is then withdrawn from the hole 12 in a controlled
manner by the drive apparatus 20, such that the rotating spray of the cementitious

                                            -9
material coats the internal walls 11 along the hole 12. The cementitious mixture to
thins out as it is flicked out of the spinning head 60 which allows the mixture to set
fast, lining the hole with a thin layer between about 2mm to 12mm and preferably
about 3mm.
[0044] In some examples, the hole 12 may have a diameter of 50mm and the
withdrawal rate and flow rate of cementitious material may result in the 1m of the
internal surface 11 of the hole 12 being coated with a 3mm coating. Such a coating
may require about 230ml of the cementitious product. The speeds of the pump and
mixing apparatus 16 and spin head 60 of the delivery apparatus 14 may be adjustable
and controllable to allow the internal surfaces 11 of the hole 12 to be coated in about
30 seconds or less.
[0045] In the case of a 90mm diameter hole, the volume of cementitious product is
about 0.5 litres per meter for a 3mm thickness with a withdrawal rate of about
0.5 metres per second, although this may be altered depending on flow rate and
required coating thickness.
[0046] It is noted that the above system and method may be applied to a wide range
of bore hole or blast sizes and orientations and is not limited to only vertical bore or
blast holes in a mine roof. The system and method may find application in non
vertical, horizontal and downwardly oriented bore or blast holes.
[0047] The term "coat" or "coating" is intended to mean a sufficient amount of
material is deposited to an internal surface or wall of a bore hole for stabilisation and
this coat may cover anywhere between, for example, 50 % to 100% of the internal
surface or wall of a bore hole or simply coat a subsection or part length of the internal
surface or wall of the bore hole rather than the entire length of hole.
Advantages
[0048] The system and method described herein seeks to provide, but is not limited
to, the following advantages or benefits:

                                          -10
    -   The use of a single conduit to feed the cementitious material and also spin the
        spin head;
    -   The delivery apparatus is light weight being supportable just via the conduit;
    -   The spin head and pumping speeds may be adjustable;
    -   The cementitious product is flicked from the spinning head so as to be fast
        setting after mixing has taken place and thinned causing the product to hydrate
        rapidly;
    -    The cementitious product is user friendly being able to sit within the delivery
        conduit for a period of time without reacting and setting;
    -   The single delivery conduit that is pushed to the back of the holes makes for
        ease of installation being pushed smoothly through the hose pusher;
    -   The flexible nature of the cementitious product allows better stabilisation of
        the hole;
    -   The system can be used with a vertical hole and also into holes ranging from
         10 degrees to 90 degrees from horizontal;
    -   The system is simple and easy to use with mechanical aids of the hoses pusher
        taking away the manual handling out of pushing the spin head to the back of
        the hole;
    -   The system provides manual handling benefits with mechanical aides designed
        to push the spin head to the back of the hole as the coating of a hole can
        typically be from a height greater than 30m the mechanical hose pusher will
        drive the spinning head and conduit to the end of the hole.
    -   The system allows fast and controlled application of a thin layer of the
        cementitious product with a uniform coating of the cementitious product
        capable of holding back water ingress and therefore prevent weathering of the
        inside of the hole, ultimately eliminating any potential need for redrilling the
        bore hole.
    -   The systems does not need a mixing chamber inside the bore hole or at the
        head and as such the head can be lighter.
[0049] Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and

                                           -11
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
integers or steps.
[0050] The reference in this specification to any known matter or any prior
publication is not, and should not be taken to be, an acknowledgment or admission or
suggestion that the known matter or prior art publication forms part of the common
general knowledge in the field to which this specification relates.
[0051] While specific examples of the invention have been described, it will be
understood that the invention extends to alternative combinations of the features
disclosed or evident from the disclosure provided herein.
[0052] Many and various modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art
without departing from the scope of the invention disclosed or evident from the
disclosure provided herein.

                                            -12
The claims defining the Invention are as follows:
 1.     A method for stabilising a blast hole, the method including:
        Feeding a delivery apparatus having a rotatable head supported by a material
delivery conduit toward an end of the blast hole;
        Delivering a cementitious material from the rotatable head to an internal wall
of hole; and
        Withdrawing the delivery apparatus from the hole such that the cementitious
material forms a coat on the internal wall of the hole.
2.      The method according to claim 2, wherein the method includes the step of:
        Introducing pressurised air into the delivery apparatus so as to cause the
rotatable head to rotate.
3.      The method according to claim 2, wherein the method includes the step of:
        Mixing a two-part feed material to form the cementitious material and
pumping the mixed cementitious material through the material delivery conduit to the
delivery apparatus.
4.      The method according any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the method includes
the step of:
        Actuating a drive apparatus to feed and withdraw the conduit and the rotatable
head carried thereby to and from the hole.
5.      The method according to claim 4, wherein the material delivery conduit is
drawn from a storage reel by the drive apparatus.
6.      The method according to any one of the previous claims, wherein the coat
substantially covers the internal wall of the hole.
7.      The method according to any one of the previous claims, wherein the coat is in
the range of about 2 mm to 12 in thickness, and preferably about 2 mm to 4mm in
thickness.

                                             -13
8.      The method according to any one of the previous claims, wherein the coat is at
least partially flexible in a set condition.
9.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the method includes the step of:
        Introducing pressurised cementitious material to the rotatable head, and
wherein the rotatable head is adapted to flick the cementitious material outwardly
toward the internal wall of hole.
 10.    A method for stabilising a blast hole, the method including:
        Moving a delivery head supported by a delivery conduit upward toward an end
of the hole;
        Introducing a pressurised cementitious mixture at the delivery head and
rotating the delivery head so as to deliver the cementitious mixture to an internal
surface of the hole; and
        Withdrawing, under control, the delivery head from the hole such that the
rotating spray of cementitious mixture substantially coats the internal surface of the
hole.
 11.    A method for stabilising a bore hole, the method including:
        Moving a delivery head supported by a delivery conduit toward an end of the
hole;
        Introducing a pressurised cementitious mixture at the delivery head and
rotating the delivery head such that fingers of the delivery head urge the cementitious
mixture toward an internal surface of the hole; and
        Withdrawing, under control, the delivery head from the hole such that the
cementitious mixture substantially coats the internal surface of the hole.
 12.    A system for stabilising a blast hole in a mine roof, the system including:
        A delivery apparatus adapted to fit within the hole, the delivery apparatus
including a body supporting a rotatable head;
        A delivery conduit adapted to support and move the delivery apparatus within
the hole, the delivery conduit adapted to carry a cementitious product and a
pressurised air supply;

                                           -14
        A drive apparatus adapted to engage with the delivery conduit so as to move
the delivery conduit and delivery apparatus carried thereby within the hole; and
        A mixing and pump arrangement adapted to supply a pressurised cementitious
product to the delivery apparatus via the delivery conduit,
        Wherein the rotatable head is driven by the pressurised air supply such that in
use the cementitious product is delivered so as to substantially coat the internal
surface of the hole.
 13.    The system according to claim 12, wherein the delivery conduit is adapted to
house a cementitious product supply conduit and a pressurised air supply conduit.
 14.    The system according to claim 12, wherein the rotatable head includes fingers
adapted to flick the cementitious product during rotation toward the internal surface of
the blast hole.
 15.    The system according to claim 12, wherein the drive apparatus is a hose
pusher.
 16.    The system according to claim 12, wherein the mixing and pump arrangement
is adapted to mix at least two parts to form the cementitious product prior to entry into
the delivery conduit.
 17.    The system according to claim 16, wherein the at least two parts include a Part
A including greater than 20% Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC) or Calcium
Aluminate Cement (CAC), and a Part B including a latex emulsion not less than 10%
solids or greater than 50% solids by weight.
 18.    The system according to claim 12, wherein in the mixing and pump
arrangement is located outside of the blast hole.
 19.    The system according to claim 12, wherein the rotatable head is adapted to
urge the cementitious product toward the internal surface of the blast hole during
rotation.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
