ABSTRACT
Methods for preparing thermally inhibited starch agglomerates are disclosed.           Thermally
inhibited starch agglomerates prepared by this method provide a higher viscosity over thermally
inhibited starches that are not agglomerated but are thermally inhibited in the same manner as the
thermally inhibited starch agglomerates.

      METHOD OF MAKING AGGLOMERATED AND THERMALLY INHIBITED
                                              STARCH
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001] Field of the invention. The present invention is directed towards physically modified
starches and their applications in food products. More specifically, the present invention is
directed towards a method of improving the viscosity of thermally inhibited, starch-based
texturizers and application of those texturizers in food products.
[0002] Starch is a major raw material used in the food industry for its good thickening and
gelling properties. However, in a wide range of starch applications, native starches alone cannot
be used because of their lack of process tolerance and inability to deliver desired properties such
as solubility, viscosity, texture and clarity. For example, in food processing, heat, shear and/or
extreme pH, especially acidic pH, tend to disrupt starch granules and disperse the starch in the
food. As such, unmodified native starches are generally unsuitable for use in processed foods.
In order to overcome these deficiencies, native starches are often modified using any of a variety
of starch modification techniques, namely, chemical, physical, and/or enzymatic modifications.
[0003] Chemical modification of starch molecules is often used to achieve the above mentioned
desired properties. Numerous methods of chemically modifying starch have been developed
over the past century to attain these coveted functional properties. Such modification techniques
include acid conversion, crosslinking (e.g., with POC 3 ), and derivatization (e.g., acetylation,
esterification, etherification, and propylation (e.g., PO modification)), among others.       These
modifications result in starches having any of a variety of desirable properties, including process
tolerance, high viscosity, better thickening power, more resistance to gelatinization, and
retrogradation stability compared to native starches.
[0004] For example, starches modified by chemical crosslinking are better able to withstand the
effects of high temperature processing and high shear.        Chemically crosslinked starches are
prepared by modifying the starch granule with difunctional reagents (e.g., phosphorus
oxychloride, sodium trimetaphosphate, adipic anhydride, acetic anhydride and epichlorohydrin).
Chemically crosslinked starches have much better tolerance to processing treatments such as
                                                   1

heat, shear, and pH extremes, and possess viscosity stability throughout the processing operation,
as well as provide a desirable smooth texture and shelf life of the food, compared to their native
counterparts.
[0005] In addition to chemical modification or alternatively, by treating at specific moisture and
temperature conditions, certain properties of starch can be physically altered.       Such physical
processes provide starch with functional properties similar to those obtained by chemical
modification.    Physical modifications are often desired over chemical modifications due to
growing consumer preference for non-chemically modified food ingredients. Usually, starch is
physically modified by subjecting granular starch to specific heat and moisture conditions for a
duration sufficient to develop granular structural changes adequate to achieve the desired
functionality.
[0006] Two basic types of hydrothermal treatments are commonly employed in modifying the
physiochemical properties of starch. Under these methods, starches having specific levels of
moisture are heated for a specific period of time without causing a significant level of starch
gelatinization (i.e., the starch granule retains its morphology). Treatment of starch with excess or
intermediate moisture (e.g., about 40 wt % to about 80 wt % or 90 wt % moisture) at a
temperature above the glass transition temperature but below the gelatinization temperature is
referred to as "annealing" (ANN). The gelatinization temperature varies depending on the source
of the starch, with starch gelatinization typically occurring over a temperature range.          For
example, the gelatinization temperature of native (i.e., unmodified) potato starch is from about
56*C to about 66*C, whereas the gelatinization temperature of native corn starch is from about
62*C to about 72*C. The term "heat-moisture treatment" (HMT) refers to starch heat treated at a
temperature above its gelatinization temperature but with insufficient moisture to gelatinize (i.e.,
heat treated with limited moisture, which can be present in an amount of about 10 wt % to about
30 wt% moisture).
[0007] As noted above, these two types of physical modifications occur at temperatures above
the glass transition temperature and either below (ANN) or above (HMT) the gelatinization
temperature of the relevant starch, depending on the specific moisture content used for the
treatment (e.g., excess moisture as in a slurry for ANN, or no or only a small amount of added
                                                     2

moisture for HMT).        In particular, hydrothermal treatment can be used to increase the
gelatinization temperature, enzymatic susceptibility, solubility, swelling volume, and changes in
X-ray diffraction patterns. The changes in these parameters vary depending upon the source of
the starch and hydrothermal treatment conditions.
[0008] A third type of thermal modification of starch is thermal inhibition. Thermal inhibition is
well known in the art and is exemplified in United States Patent 5,718,770; 5,932,017;
6,231,675; 6,451,121; 8,268,989; 8,471,003; and 8,759,511, hereby incorporated by reference.
Thermal inhibition differs from ANN and HMT in that in the thermal inhibition process the
moisture content of the starch granule is rendered at least substantially anhydrous, and the starch
granule is then heat treated. In other words, dry thermal inhibition is a technology that involves
heating substantially anhydrous, granular starch at elevated temperatures (e.g., 125*C to 180*C),
which can occur in one embodiment under alkaline conditions. Thermally inhibited starches
obtained by this process have characteristic functional prope ties such as limited granular
swelling and less viscosity breakdown during pasting than native starch.            Because these
properties and functionalities of thermally inhibited starches are similar to those of chemically
crosslinked starches, thermally inhibited starches, which lack chemical additives, are preferred
for food applications.
[0009] Thermally inhibited starches are generally recognized as functional, native starches
because the improved functionalities of the product are derived from a non-chemical process.
Traditionally, thermally inhibited starches are made so that the st rch granules are retained in the
end product.
[0010] Like chemically crosslinked starch, thermally inhibited starch provides thickening in food
products. The degree of thermal inhibition depends upon the viscosity required for a particular
food application. In general, the higher the temperature at which the starch is cooked the greater
the degree of starch inhibition    In one aspect, the present invention is directed towards such
thermally inhibited starches, specifically, those without any chemical modification.
[0011] Starches are thermally inhibited in a process that results in the starch granule structure
becoming resistant to hydro-thermal destruction (hereinafter referred to as "inhibited" or
"thermally inhibited") without addition of chemical reagents. The degree of thermal inhibition
                                                  3

required depends upon the desired functionality sought by the thermally inhibited starch in the
food (e.g., thickening, gelling, extending, etc.), as well as the particular processing conditions
used to prepare the foods and the degree of functionality desired. These thermally inhibited
starches have functional characteristics similar to chemically crosslinked starches (e.g., process
tolerance, improved viscosity) but differ in that the onset of gelatinization temperature is lower,
particularly when the starches are moderately or highly inhi 'ited.
[0012] During cooking of certain native starches, such as waxy starches, the granules are
gelatinized, a peak viscosity is reached, and then the viscosity begins to decrease as the starch
granules breakdown and the starch polymers solubilized.          For waxy starches, this typically
results in a starch paste that is cohesive or runny. In contrast, when thermally inhibited starches
are cooked, the starch granules are more resistant to structu al breakdown, resulting in less or no
viscosity breakdown, compared to native starches which are not thermally inhibited.            This
resistance to breakdown results in what is subjectively considered a non-cohesive, or "short"
textured paste, meaning that the gelatinized starch tends to be salve-like and heavy in viscosity
rather than runny or gummy.
[0013] Depending upon the extent of heat treatment, various levels of inhibition can be achieved.
For example, higher viscosity products with little breakdown as well as highly inhibited, low
viscosity products with no breakdown can be prepared by the thermal inhibition process
described herein. Generally speaking, the degree of thermal inhibition varies based upon the
processing conditions, such as temperature, time and pH. The higher the degree of inhibition,
the greater the process stability of the product (i.e., lower paste viscosity breakdown with
continued heating and/or shear applied to the starch paste). However, high levels of inhibition
result in substantially low paste viscosities, limiting the application of thermally inhibited
starches in certain food products. Attempts have been ma e to improve paste viscosities, color
and flavor of thermally inhibited starches by refining the base starch to remove traces of proteins
and lipids. Unfortunately, viscosity improvements obtained by such refinements are marginal at
best.
[0014] Food products which are to be thickened or gelled - with or without heating - can be
prepared by adding thermally inhibited non-pregelatinized or pregelatinized granular starch to
                                                  4

one or more of the food ingredients prior to or during processing of the food ingredients. Food
products can also be extended by replacing or partially replacing one or more of the ingredients
typically used in the food (e.g., fat, protein, and the like) with thermally inhibited starch.    A
mixture of thermally inhibited starches, including granular non-pregelatinized and granular
pregelatinized starches, may also be used.
[0015] In starch pasting (measured by either a Brabender* Micro Visco Amylograph or a Rapid
Visco Analyzer), paste viscosity develops when starch granules absorb water, resulting in
granular swelling. Thermal inhibition prevents the breakdown of these swollen granules, thereby
impeding or reducing viscosity breakdown after reaching their fully swollen state.        It is well
recognized that a combination of factors (e.g., the degree of starch granule swelling, the swollen
granule's ability to deform without destruction and leaching of starch polymers, the size and
shape of the swollen granule and its rigidity, and the degree of friction between swollen starch
granule surfaces) affect the paste viscosity of a given starch.
[0016] Thermally inhibiting a starch does not guarantee that it will provide the desired
functionality needed in the food product.        For example, thermally inhibited starches often
provide lesser paste viscosities than chemically modified starches. Accordingly, there remains a
need for thermally inhibited starches having even greater viscosity than those commercially
available.
BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [0017] In accordance with the present invention, the viscosity of thermally inhibited starches is
increased in a process whereby the resultant product has a greater viscosity than current
commercially available thermally inhibited starches.       This resultant product is in the form of
starch agglomerates which are thermally inhibited. The thermally inhibited starch agglomerate is
prepared by mixing a starch binding agent and starch granules together to at least partially coat
starch granules and to form starch agglomerates. The agglomerates are dehydrated to anhydrous
or substantially anhydrous.     The dehydrated starch agglomerates are then heat treated at a
temperature of about 100*C to about 200*C for up to about 20 hours thereby thermally inhibiting
the starch agglomerates. These thermally inhibited starch agglomerates have a higher viscosity
than that of non-agglomerated thermally inhibited starch granules derived from the same native
                                                   5

starch as the starch granules present in the starch agglomerates, wherein the thermally inhibited
starch granules and thermally inhibited starch agglomerates have been thermally inhibited in the
same manner.
[0018] The starch binding agent, in one aspect of the present invention, is a solubilized starch.
The starch binding agent may be derived from the same native starch as the starch granules. In
another aspect of the present invention, the starch bind agent may be derived from a different
native starch than that of the starch granules.
[0019] The solubilized starch used as the binding agent can be modified in a variety of ways.
For example, the solubilized starch can be physically modified; at least partially gelatinized and
dispersed. Further, the solubilized starch can be derived from a modified starch. Different
modified starches can be utilized, including enzymatically modified starch and chemically
modified starch. Other methods of solubilizing starch such that it would be effective to bind
starch granules are known in the art.
[0020] The starch binding agent for use in the present invention may be pH-adjusted prior to
mixing with the starch granules by dispersing the starch binding agent in a buffer, thereby
rendering the starch binding agent substantially neutral or slightly alkaline prior to mixing with
the starch granules.
[0021] Like the starch binding agent, the starch granule may optionally be a modified starch.
Different modified starches can be utilized for both the starch binding agent and the starch
granules, including enzymatically modified starch and chemically modified starch. In one aspect
of the invention, both the starch binding agent and the starch granules are not chemically
modified.
[0022] Various starch bases may be used as the starch binding agent and the starch granules. In
one embodiment, the starch granules are waxy starch granules.
[0023] Like the starch binding agent, the starch granules may optionally be pH-adjusted prior to
mixing with the binding agent by dispersing the starch granules in a buffer, thereby rendering the
starch granules substantially neutral or slightly alkaline. In one embodiment, the starch granules
are adjusted to a pH of about neutral or greater prior to mixing with the starch binding agent.
                                                  6

[0024] The amount of starch binding agent used to form starch agglomerates can vary.
Preferably, the amount of starch binding agent used is about 0.05 wt% to about 50.0%, based on
total weight of the starch granules.
[0025] The starch binding agent and starch granules can be mixed together by making a slurry of
the starch binding agent and the starch granules. In another embodiment, the starch binding
agent and the starch granules can be mixed together by spraying the starch binding agent onto the
starch granules. In yet another embodiment, the base for the starch binding agent and the starch
granules may be mixed and processed such that the starch binding agent is solubilized and at
least partially coats the starch granules during processing. In this embodiment, the base for the
starch binding agent would need to differ from the starch granules and be less robust to the
processing, such as having a lower gelatinization temperature.
[0026] The present invention further provides thermally inhibited agglomerated starch obtained
according to the method described herein. Further, the present invention includes food products
containing thermally inhibited agglomerated starch obtained according to the method described
herein.
[0027] Throughout the specification, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the phrases
"in one aspect", "in one embodiment" and the like do not necessarily refer to the same
embodiment(s), though it may.          The phrases "in another embodiment", "in yet another
embodiment", "in another aspect", "in yet another aspect", and the like do not necessarily refer
to a different aspect (embodiment), although it may. Thus, as describes below, various aspects
(embodiments) of the invention may be readily combined without departing from the scope or
spirit of the invention.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0028] FIGURE 1 is a graph illustrating Brabender pasting profiles of various starches prepared
using a lab-scale process.
                                                  7

[0029] FIGURE 2 is a bar chart illustrating settling volume (left bar for each sample) and
percent solubles (right bar for each sample).
[0030] FIGURE 3 is a graph illustrating Brabender pasting profiles of various starches prepared
using a pilot-scale process.
                                              8

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0031] Provided herein is a method of improving the viscosity of thermally inhibited starches.
According to the present method, starches manufactured by at least partially coating starch
granules to form agglomerates and subsequently thermally inhibiting the agglomerated starch
results in a product having a greater viscosity than the same starches which are thermally
inhibited and either not agglomerated or subsequently agglomerated.
[0032] For the purpose of the present invention, a "thermally inhibited starch agglomerate"
means starch granules which are mixed with a binding agent to at least partially coat the granules
and form starch agglomerates, then dehydrated to anhydrous or substantially anhydrous, and
heat-treated to result in thermally inhibited starch agglomerates.          The resultant starch
agglomerate prepared by this process includes both individual starch granules at least partially
coated with the binding agent, and agglomerates of two or more starch granules. The proportion
of starch agglomerates to individual starch granules is dependent upon the process conditions
and formulation used.
[0033] Starches useful in the present invention may be derived from any native source, including
without limitation, banana, corn (maize), pea, beans, lentil, potato, sweet potato, yam, barley,
wheat, rice, sago, amaranth, tapioca (cassava), sorghum, rye, oat, canna and arrowroot, as well as
high amylose and waxy versions thereof. Preferred starches are low amylose or waxy starches.
As used herein, high amylose starch is intended to mean having at least 50% amylose, in another
embodiment at least 70% and in yet another embodiment at least 80% amylose by weight of the
starch. Low amylose starches are those starches which are not high amylose starches and include
waxy starches. As used herein, waxy is intended to mean having no more than 5% amylose, in
another embodiment no more than 3% and in yet another embodiment no more than 1% amylose
by weight.    Unless specifically distinguished, references to starch in this description are also
meant to include their corresponding flours.
[0034] As used herein, native starches refer to those found in nature, and do not include
chemically modified starches. Native starches are starch granules which have been isolated from
their plant source without altering their chemical structure.
                                                  9

[0035] Prior to agglomeration, native starch granules for use in the present invention can
optionally be enzymatically, physically (e.g., annealed, heat-moisture treated), or chemically
modified (e.g., crosslinked) as known in the art. However, unmodified native starch granules are
also suitable for agglomeration according to the present invention.
[0036] Starch granules for use in the present invention can also optionally be buffered. Native
starch granules have a natural pH of about 4.0 to about 6.5. As used herein, substantially
"neutral" covers the range of pH values around pH 7 and is meant to include from about pH 6.5
to about pH 7.5. Although starches may be treated at their natural pH, the preferred pH of the
starch is at least 7.0. Typically, pH ranges are from about 7.0 to about 10.5, preferably about 7.0
to about 9.5. In one embodiment, the pH is slightly alkaline in the range of 7.5 - 8.5. At a pH
above 12, gelatinization occurs more easily; therefore, pH adjustments below 12 are more
effective.
[0037] To adjust the pH of the starch, the starch granules may be slurried in water or other
suitable aqueous medium, typically in a ratio of about 1.5 to about 2.0 parts water to about 1.0
part starch. The pH may then be raised by addition of any suitable base. In alternative methods
of adjusting the pH, either a base or buffer solution may be sprayed onto the powdered starch
until the starch attains the desired pH, or an alkaline gas such as NH 3 can be infused into the
starch. Textural and viscosity benefits of the thermal inhibition process are enhanced in the
neutral or slightly alkaline pH range.     Higher pH levels may be used, but tend to increase
browning of the starch during the heating step.
[0038] For food applications, suitable food grade bases useful in the pH adjustment step include
sodium hydroxide, sodium carbonate, calcium carbonate, calcium hydroxide, potassium
carbonate, potassium citrate, sodium citrate, and potassium hydroxide. These bases may also
include any other base approved for food use under Food and Drug Administration laws or other
food regulatory laws. Bases not approved for food use under these regulations may also be used,
provided they may be washed from the starch so that the final product conforms to good
manufacturing practices for food use. A preferred food grade base is sodium carbonate, sodium
citrate, or tri-potassium citrate.
                                                  10

[0039] Once pH adjustment of the starch granule is completed (or alternatively, for starch
granules in which no pH adjustment is desired), the starch granule is mixed with a binding agent
to at least partially coat starch granules and to form starch agglomerates.   The present invention
provides a novel approach to improving the functionality, particularly the viscosity, of starches
by at least partially agglomerating starch granules using a starch-based binding agent to at least
partially coat and bind the granules together.         Such starch agglomerates, when thermally
inhibited, have improved or increased viscosity compared to non-agglomerated, thermally
inhibited starch granules derived from the same base starch and processed under the same
conditions.
[0040] Although any of a number of materials can be used as the binding agent, the present
invention utilizes a starch-based binding agent due to its compatibility with starch granules, as
well as the ability to create a product free of any non-starch material or chemicals. The starch
based binding agent used in coating or binding the starch granules together can be derived from
any native starch. In one embodiment, the starch-based binding agent is derived from the same
base native starch as the native starch granules that it binds together or agglomerates (e.g, both
the starch granule and the starch-based binding agent are derived from waxy maize). In another
embodiment, the starch-based binding agent is derived from a different base native starch than
the native starch granules that it binds together or agglomerates (e.g, the starch granule is derived
from waxy maize and the starch-based binding agent is derived from potato).            As described
above with respect to the starch granule, the starch-based binding agent can also optionally be
buffered to adjust the pH of the starch granules.
[0041] In one embodiment, this starch-based binding agent can be either a physically modified
or fully cooked starch which has not been subjected to any chemical modifications, resulting in a
final agglomerated product that is still considered an 'unmodified' (i.e., not chemically modified)
starch for regulatory purposes and accordingly given a clean label designation.                These
unmodified starch-based binding agents can be rendered cold water soluble or swellable by, for
example, simultaneously cooking and drying the starch on hot drums or in spray driers. This
cold water swellable starch may then be solubilized and at least partially dispersed in water or
other aqueous medium, and then mixed with the starch granules to form the starch agglomerates.
Preferably, the binding agent is at least partially cooked.
                                                   11

[0042] In a separate embodiment, the starch-based binding agent may optionally be subjected to
chemical modification and pregelatinization. This chemically modified cold water swellable
starch may then be dispersed or solubilized in water or an aqueous medium, and then mixed with
starch granules to form the starch agglomerates, resulting in a chemically modified starch
agglomerate.    Non-limiting examples of chemical modification of the binding agent include
crosslinking and substitution to improve stability.
[0043] Generally speaking, the starch used as the binding agent can be at least partially,
preferably fully, cooked either native or modified (e.g., physically, enzymatically and/or
chemically) starch. The starch binding agent may be at least partially dispersed in either water or
a suitable buffer for maintaining the pH required for thermal inhibition. The amount of starch
binding agent used to form the starch agglomerates is about 0.05 to about 50.0%, preferably
about 0.1 to about 25.0%, and more preferably about 0.5 to about 15.0%, based on total weight
of the starch granules. The choice of starch binding agent depends upon the properties required
for the end product. The starch-based binding agent may be mixed with granular starch under
semi-moist, or wet conditions at desired proportions in order to obtain a product having desired
levels of agglomeration, particle size distribution, and stability. Product characteristics may also
depend on the agglomeration process and equipment used.
[0044] Once the starch agglomerate is formed, it can be dehydrated by application of heat or any
other appropriate method, including - but not limited to - air-drying, vacuum drying, freeze
drying, exposing to a desiccant, flash drying, or drum drying. Prior to this dehydration step, the
starch slurry may be dewatered and/or dried, preferably to less than about 12% moisture dry
solids basis (dsb). Such drying is to be distinguished from the dehydration step in which the
starch agglomerates are at dehydrated to anhydrous or substantially anhydrous conditions. When
starches are subjected to heat (e.g., about 125"C or greater) in the presence of water, hydrolysis
or degradation of the starch may occur. Therefore, the conditions for dehydration of the starch
agglomerate should be chosen so that inhibition is favored over hydrolysis or degradation.
Although any conditions meeting that criterion can be used, suitable conditions consist of
dehydrating at low temperatures below 125"C and/or raising the pH before dehydrating.
Accordingly, the preferred dehydrating conditions consist of a combination of low temperature
and neutral to basic pH.
                                                  12

[0045] Temperatures used to dehydrate the starch agglomerate are preferably kept at about
125"C or lower, and more preferably at temperatures, or a range of temperatures, from about
1000 to about 125"C.       The dehydration temperature can be about 100"C or lower, but a
temperature of at least about 100"C is more effective in removing moisture.               Thermal
dehydration can be carried out by heating the starch agglomerate in a conventional oven, forced
air oven, fluid bed reactor/drier or any other heating device for a time and at a temperature
sufficient to reduce the moisture content to about 5 wt % or less, preferably less than about 1 wt
% (i.e., anhydrous or substantially anhydrous), based on total weight of the starch.       In one
embodiment, the moisture content is reduced to less than about 3%. "Substantially anhydrous"
for the purpose of the present invention means that the water content of the starch agglomerate is
about 5 wt % or less based on total weight of the starch agglomerate. "Anhydrous" means that
the water content of the starch agglomerate is less than about 1% based on total weight of the
starch agglomerate. All percent moisture figures are on a dry solid basis.
 [0046] After dehydration, the starch agglomerate may be heat treated for an amount of time and
at a temperature or range of temperatures effective to inhibit the starch.       Preferred heating
temperatures are about 100"C or greater. For practical purposes, the upper temperature limit of
the heat treatment is usually about 200"C, a temperature range at which highly inhibited starches
 can be obtained.    Typically, heat treatment is carried out at about 125"C to about 180 0 C,
 preferably about 140 0 C to about 170 0C, more preferably about 165 0 C. Time and temperature
 profile depend upon the level of inhibition desired. For example, when a conventional oven is
 used, the time to inhibit may range from about 1 to about 20 hours, typically about 2 to about 6
 hours, and usually about 1.5 to about 4.5 hours. When a fluidized bed dryer/reactor is used, the
 time to inhibit may range from about 0 minutes (i.e., the inhibition occurs during the ramp up
 temperature) to about 10.0 hours, typically about 0.25 hours to about 4.0 hours. Longer times
 are required at lower temperatures to obtain more inhibited starches.
 [0047] The dehydration and heat treating steps may be continuous and accomplished by applying
 heat to the starch agglomerate beginning at ambient temperature and then ramping the
 temperature up. In many cases, moisture is driven off and the starch agglomerate is anhydrous or
 substantially anhydrous before the temperature reaches the thermal inhibition temperature. After
 the starch agglomerate reaches an anhydrous or substantially anhydrous state, some level of
                                                 13

inhibition may be attained before the final heat treatment temperature is reached. At these initial
low levels of inhibition, the peak viscosities are typically higher than at inhibition levels reached
with longer heat treating times, although there is greater breakdown in viscosity after the peak
viscosity is reached. As duration of heat treatment increases, peak viscosities become
progressively lower with less breakdown in viscosity.
[0048] As described above, the starch granules may optionally be modified and/or pH adjusted
prior to mixing with the starch-based binding agent. The starch binding agent may be optionally,
in any order, modified, at least partially if not fully cooked, and pH adjusted prior to mixing with
the starch granules. The starch granules are mixed with the starch-based binding agent to form
starch agglomerates, and these starch agglomerates are then thermally inhibited.             Generally
speaking, starch agglomerates are thermally inhibited by dehydrating the starch for a time and at
a temperature sufficient to render the starch agglomerates anhydrous or substantially anhydrous.
These anhydrous or substantially anhydrous starch agglomerates are then heat treated for a time
and at a temperature sufficient to inhibit the starch agglomerates.
[0049] Starch base, dehydrating conditions, heating time and temperature, initial pH, and other
variables during the process steps may affect the degree of inhibition obtained. All these factors
are interrelated and these different variables have an effect on controlling the degree of
inhibition, as well as the textural and viscosity characteristics of the inhibited products.
[0050] Removal of various proteins, lipids and other off-flavor components from both starch
granules and the binding agent prior to thermal inhibition may improve the flavor (i.e., taste and
aroma) of the resultant thermally inhibited starch agglomerates. Sodium chlorite ext 'action and
ethanol extraction of the protein are useful methods of extraction. Other procedures which can
be used for protein removal include washing the starch at an alkaline pH (e.g., pH 11-12) and/or
treating the starch with proteases. Polar and non-polar solvents having an affinity for proteins
and/or lipids can also be used. Any solvents used should be food grade solvents such as alcohols
(e.g., ethanol or isopropanol) when the thermally inhibited starch agglomerates are to be used in
food products.
[0051] Any appropriate equipment may be used for agglomeration,                    including blenders,
homogenizers, mixers, fluid bed coating systems, fluid bed agglomerating systems, and any other
                                                    14

suitable equipment which permits agglomeration to the desired level. Mixing method, mixing
speed, temperature, amount of moisture, and the proportions of starch granules and bind agent
are factors that affect the degree of agglomeration of starch granules.        As noted previously,
agglomeration refers to the clustering of two or more starch granules into an agglomerate by a
binding agent and coating, either partially or completely, the remaining granules by the binding
agent.
[0052] Generally, agglomeration of starch granules occurs by mixing the starch granules with a
binding agent. In one embodiment, dry starch granules are mixed with the binding agent using
an appropriate mixing device to create the agglomerated starch.           The proportion of starch
granules and starch binding agent depends upon the desired level of agglomeration and coating
of granules. The binding agent may be applied by spraying, pumping or injecting it onto the
starch granules while applying an appropriate mode of mixing these two constituents in order to
form agglomerates.
[0053] In another embodiment, agglomeration is carried out by mixing wet starch granules with
a starch binding agent. In this wet agglomeration process, a slurry (comprising about 15.0 to
about 90.0% moisture) of the starch granules and an appropriate amount of the starch binding
agent may be prepared using an appropriate mixing device. The agglomerates are then dried,
sieved, and used for the thermal inhibition process either with or without a particle size reduction
(i.e., grinding, milling) step after drying.
 [0054] Agglomeration may also be carried out by spray drying a slurry containing the starch
granules and the starch binding agent. This may be conducted with or without buffering to
maintain a certain pH. For spray drying, the starch slurry may be made at a concentration of
about 60% or less, preferably about 40% or less, and more preferably about 20% or less solids.
Slurry concentration depends on both the desired end-product properties (e.g., degree of
 agglomeration) and the process conditions (e.g., viscosity of the slurry, ease of moisture removal,
etc.).
 [0055] The process steps performed in carrying out thermal inhibition of the starch agglomerate
 may occur at ambient pressure or higher pressure, and may be accomplished using any means
 known to starch practitioners.        In one embodiment, the process steps are carried out by
                                                 15

application of dry heat in air or in a modified gaseous environment, such as increased oxygen
content air and may be conducted in a fluidized bed reactor or in any other suitable equipment
capable of providing the required heating conditions for starch.
[0056] Useful equipment for dehydration and heat treatment (i.e., thermal inhibition) include any
industrial oven (e.g., conventional ovens, dextrinizers, fluidized bed reactors and driers, mixers
and blenders equipped with heating devices, and other types of heaters).          Particular if the
dehydration step is to be conducted in the same equipment, the equipment may be fitted with a
vent to atmosphere or some other dehumidifying mechanism so that moisture does not
accumulate and precipitate onto the starch and/or otherwise modified to remove water vapor
from it (e.g., by vacuum or blower for sweeping air from the head-space of the apparatus, by use
of a fluidizing gas, or with a dehumidifying device). Heat treatment may be accomplished in the
same equipment in which dehydration occurs, and most conveniently is continuous with the
dehydrating step. When dehydration is continuous with heat treatment (e.g., in a fluidized bed
reactor or drier), dehydration occurs while bringing the equipment up to the heat treatment
temperature.
[0057] Thermally inhibited starch agglomerates having high viscosities with no or low
percentage breakdown in viscosity are obtained in shorter times in the fluidized bed reactor than
can be achieved using other conventional heating ovens. Fluid bed reactors/driers are intended
to include in which the bed is mechanically fluidized as well as those in which the bed is
fluidized by gas.    Suitable fluidizing gases include air, which may be oxygen enriched, and
nitrogen.
[0058] Conventional ovens may alternatively be used to inhibit starch agglomerates. The
temperature of the oven should be adjusted to be from about 1250 to about 200"C, preferably
about 140"C to about 170"C, and most preferably about 165"C in order to obtain the thermally
inhibited starch product. Depending upon the temperature selected, the batch size, the pH, the
selection of starch or flour used and other factors, the heating process can be carried out over a
time period of about 1 to about 20 hours. For example, at a temperature of 165"C, the heating
step is preferably carried out for about 0.5 to about 6.0 hours.
                                                  16

[0059] The starch agglomerate may be screened or milled - either prior to thermal inhibition or
after - to obtain a desirable particle size range. Size distribution of the agglomerated starches
may be controlled by using appropriate screening methods (e.g., sieving to separate undesired
particle sizes), using appropriate operating settings in special processing equipment used to
agglomerate (e.g., granulators, fluidized bed mixers/dryers, Wurster mixer, Freund-Vector fluid
bed mixer, CoriMix mixers, fluid bed agglomerators, or spray dryers) or any other method
known in the art. Depending upon the process equipment employed, the prepared material can
contain agglomerates of various sizes, including non-agglomerated starch granules that are at
least partially coated with the binding agent.
[0060] Further, the pH of the starch agglomerates may be adjusted as desired. For example, the
pH can be adjusted to the naturally occurring pH of the starch.
[0061] Considering the above described starch granules and binding agents and the processes for
preparing the thermally inhibited starch agglomerates, such processes may be modified to obtain
products having specific functional properties such as desired viscosity profiles and/or texture.
These non-limiting process modifications or variations include
    a) agglomerating native, unmodified, non-pregelatinized starch granules with fully cooked
        and dispersed starch from the same starch base as the starch granules;
    b) agglomerating native, unmodified, non-pregelatinized starch granules with partially
        cooked and dispersed starch from the same starch base as the starch granules;
    c) agglomerating      native,  unmodified,   non-pregelatinized   starch granules    with non
        pregelatinized starch, having a substantially low gelatinization temperature, from a
        different starch base as the starch granules;
    d) agglomerating native, unmodified, non-pregelatinized starch granules with fully cooked
        and dispersed starch from a different starch base than that of the starch granules;
    e) agglomerating native, unmodified, non-pregelatinized starch granules with fully cooked
         and dispersed modified starch that is modified enzymatically and/or chemically;
    f)   agglomerating modified (either physically or chemically) starch granules with fully
        cooked and dispersed native starch; or
    g) agglomerating modified (either physically or chemically) starch granules with fully
        cooked and dispersed modified starch that is modified enzymatically and/or chemically.
                                                  17

For all of the above exemplary options, pH adjustments can be performed using suitable buffer
systems - on the starch granules, the binding agent, or both, depending on the properties and
functionalities (e.g., paste viscosity) desired in the end product.
[0062] Agglomeration and granule coating prepared according to the processes described above
and using the binding agent results in starch agglomerates having higher paste viscosities than
comparable non-agglomerated thermally inhibited starch granules.         The improvement in paste
viscosity with the agglomerated thermally inhibited starches depends upon the amount of binding
agent and the resultant degree of agglomeration, as well as other factors such as the degree of
inhibition and starch source for both the granule and the binding agent. Accordingly, different
levels of paste viscosities can be obtained by using various types and amounts of starch.
[0063] The higher achievable viscosity allows for a lower use of starch to achieve the same
viscosity.    Thus, less agglomerated, thermally inhibited starch may be used than if non
agglomerated, thermally inhibited starch was used.          Thermally inhibited starch agglomerates
may be blended with other unmodified or modified starches or with other food ingredients for
use in a food product. Food products in which the thermally inhibited starch agglomerates are
useful include thermally-processed foods, acidic foods, dry mixes, refrigerated foods, frozen
foods, extruded foods, oven-prepared foods, stove top-cooked foods, microwaveable foods, full
fat or fat-reduced foods, and foods having a low water activity.        Food products wherein the
thermally-inhibited starches are particularly useful are foods requiring a thermal processing step
such as pasteurization, retorting, or ultra-high temperature (UHT) processing.
 [0064] Thermally inhibited starch agglomerates are particularly useful in food products in which
a non-chemically crosslinked starch thickener, viscosifier, gelling agent, or extender is required.
Based on processed food formulations, the practitioner may readily select the amount and type of
thermally inhibited starch agglomerate required to provide the necessary thickness and gelling
viscosity in the finished food product, as well as the desired texture. Typically, the starch
agglomerate is used in an amount of about 0.1 to about 35%, most preferably about 2 to about
 6% by weight of the food product.
 [0065] Among the food products that may be improved by use of thermally inhibited starch
 agglomerates are high acid foods (pH <3.7) such as fruit-based pie fillings, baby foods, and the
                                                    18

like; acid foods (pH 3.7-4.5) such as tomato-based products; low acid foods (pH >4.5) such as
gravies, sauces, and soups; stove top-cooked foods such as sauces, gravies, and puddings; instant
foods such as puddings; pourable and spoonable salad dressings; refrigerated foods such as dairy
or imitation dairy products (e.g., yogurt, sour cream, and cheese); frozen foods such as frozen
desserts and dinners; microwaveable foods such as frozen dinners; liquid products such as diet
products and hospital foods; dry mixes for preparing baked goods, gravies, sauces, puddings,
baby foods, hot cereals, and the like; and dry mixes for predusting foods prior to batter cooking
and frying. Thermally inhibited starch agglomerates could be may be useful in preparing food
ingredients such as encapsulated flavors and clouds.
PROCEDURAL
Characterization of Inhibition by Texture
[0066] Starches having a low to moderate degree of inhibition exhibit certain textural
characteristics when dispersed in an aqueous medium and heated to gelatinization. In the
following Examples, the samples were considered to be inhibited if a heated gelatinized slurry of
the Sample exhibited a noncohesive, smooth texture.
Characterization of Inhibition by Brabender Viscosity Data
 [0067] Characterization of thermally inhibited starch is made more conclusively by reference to
a measurement of its viscosity after it is dispersed in water and gelatinized. The instrument used
to measure paste viscosity is a Brabender* Micro Visco-Amylo-Graph* (manufactured by
Brabender* GmbH & Co. KG, Duisburg, Germany). The Micro Visco-Amylo-Graph* records
the torque required to balance the viscosity that develops when the starch slurry is subjected to a
programmed heating cycle. For noninhibited starches, the cycle includes initiation of viscosity,
usually at about 60"C to about 70"C, with development of peak viscosity in the range of about
 65"C to about 95"C, and a breakdown in viscosity occurring when the starch is held at elevated
 temperature, usually about 95"C. The record consists of a curve or pasting profile tracing the
 viscosity through the heating cycle in arbitrary units of measurement termed Micro Brabender
 Viscosity Units (MVU).
                                                  19

[0068] Inhibited starches give a Brabender curve (pasting profile) different from the curve of the
same starch that has not been inhibited (hereinafter referred to as the control starch). As the
degree of inhibition increases, the peak viscosity and the breakdown in viscosity of the starch
paste decrease. At appropriate levels of inhibition, the rate of gelatinization and swelling of the
granules decreases, the viscosity breakdown disappears, and with prolonged cooking the pasting
viscosity profile becomes a gradually rising curve.
[0069] In general, the peak viscosity of starch during pasting depends upon the ability of starch
granules to swell and deform under applied shear without losing its overall structural integrity.
Characterization of Inhibition by Settling Volume / Solubility
[0070] Characterization of thermally inhibited starches may also be determined by the degree of
granular swelling and solubility during cooking. Starches or agglomerated starch, after thermal
inhibition, displays somewhat restricted granular swelling compared               to non-inhibited,
unmodified starch during cooking.         This restricted swelling of thermally inhibited starches
results in less starch material (i.e., polymers) being dispersed in the solution. Generally, highly
thermally inhibited starch shows less granular swelling and less soluble content than a
moderately or lightly thermally inhibited starch and will settle out more than the moderately or
lightly thermally inhibited starch. Granular swelling can be determined by allowing cooked
starch to settle in a graduated measuring cylinder. The height of the starch layer represents
settling volume, which corresponds to the degree of granular swelling. The degree of solubility
can be estimated by reading the concentration of starch material dispersed in the clear, top layer
of liquid in the cylinder using a polarimeter.
EXAMPLES
[0071] The following examples more fully illustrate the embodiments of this invention. In the
examples, all parts and percentages are given by weight and all temperatures are in degrees
Celsius unless otherwise noted.        The conditions used for pH adjustment, if any, and heat
treatment are indicated. The time is the heating time at that temperature. When a zero hold time
is indicated (e.g., 165 0 C/O min), it means the sample is taken as soon as the material reaches that
particular temperature (e.g., 165"C).       The initial pH of the starch prior to dehydration is
                                                   20

indicated. Where the pH of the starch is adjusted, pH adjustment is done with potassium citrate
unless specified otherwise.
Procedural
Sample Preparation
[0072] All starches used were granular and, unless indicated otherwise, were provided by
Ingredion, Incorporated of Westchester, Illinois. The controls for the test samples were from the
same native sources as the test samples, and were at the same pH, unless indicated otherwise.
All starches, both test and control samples, were prepared and tested independently, in replicates
as appropriate.
[0073] The pH of the starch granule and/or binding agent was raised by slurrying the starch or
binding agent in water at 5-40% solids as appropriate, and adding a sufficient amount of a buffer
solution until the desired pH was reached.
[0074] All samples were oven dried or flash dried as conventional in the art (without
gelatinization) to about 2 to about 15% moisture, based on total weight of the sample.
[0075] Measurements of pH, either before or after the thermal inhibition steps, were taken on
samples consisting of one part anhydrous starch to four parts water.
[0076] Starch granules were (1) agglomerated using a pilot-scale CoriMix* CM-20 Mixer
(available from Lbdige, Paderborn, Germany), flash-dried and then thermally inhibited, (2)
thermally inhibited and then agglomerated by making a slurry, followed by drying, grinding and
sieving, or (3) spraying a slurry of soluble starch onto the starch granules with mixing to form
agglomerates, followed by drying, thermal inhibition, grinding and sieving. The CoriMix* CM
20 Mixer allows for high speed, continuous intermixing of starch binding agent and starch
granules into a homogeneous mixture. Accordingly, mixing together the starch binding agent
and starch granules results in or forms moist starch agglomerates, which are subsequently flash
dried.
 [0077] Except where a conventional oven or other equipment is specified, the test samples were
dehydrated and heat treated in a fluidized bed reactor, model number FDR-100, manufactured by
                                                 21

Procedyne Corporation of New Brunswick, N.J. The cross-sectional area of the fluidized bed
reactor was 0.05 sq meter. The starting bed height was 0.3 to 0.8 meter, but usually 0.77 meter.
The fluidizing gas was air except where otherwise indicated and was used at a velocity of 5 to 15
meter/min.    The sidewalls of the reactor were heated with hot oil, and the fluidizing gas was
heated with an electric heater. The samples were loaded to the reactor and the fluidizing gas
subsequently introduced, or were loaded while the fluidizing gas was being introduced.        The
samples were brought from ambient temperature to 125'C until the samples became substantially
anhydrous, and then were further heated to the specified heat treating temperatures. When the
heat treating temperature was 165'C, the time to reach that temperature was less than three
hours.
[0078] Moisture level of the samples at the final heating temperature was less than 1%, unless
stated otherwise. Portions of the samples were removed and tested for inhibition at the
temperatures and times indicated in the tables. These samples were tested for inhibition using
the following pasting viscosity profile analysis procedure.
Paste Viscosity (Brabender MVA-U) Test Procedure
[0079] Unless otherwise stated, the following paste viscosity procedure was used. All samples
were slurried in a sufficient amount of distilled water to give 6% anhydrous solids starch slurry.
The pH was adjusted to pH 3.0 with a sodium phosphate, citric acid buffer and the slurry
introduced to the sample cup of a Brabender* Micro Visco-Amylo-Graph* (Model U) fitted with
a 1 10mL canister. The starch slurry was heated rapidly to 95'C and held for 15 minutes.
 [0081]Using data from Brabender pasting profiles, inhibition was determined to be present if,
when dispersed at 5 to 8% solids in water at 92'C to 95'C and pH 3 during the Brabender
heating cycle, the Brabender data showed a continuous rising viscosity with no peak viscosity,
indicating the starch was inhibited.
Settling Volume Test Procedure
[0082] Settling volume and solubility of test samples are measured by cooking the test sample
starch particles (either agglomerated or non-agglomerated starch granules) and allowing them to
                                                 22

settle in a 100 mL graduated cylinder over a specified period of time. The settling volume is
then read (i.e., the volume reading of the starch layer in the graduated cylinder) and the
concentration of solubles in the supernatant is determined using a polarimeter (Polarimeter
Concentration Reading, or 'PCR'). The percent solubles is determined according to the following
equation
                               PCR x [100 - (SV x 0.62)1
                % Solubles =             MS
wherein SV is the settling or starch volume (mL), and MS is the mass of starch in dilution (g).
[0083] In the Examples below, the percent moisture is the initial moisture content, prior to the
thermal inhibition process during which the starch is dehydrated and heat treated. As indicated
above, as the starches are brought from ambient temperature up to the heating temperature, the
starches become anhydrous or substantially anhydrous.
Particle Size Distribution
[0084] Particle size distributions of samples were evaluated by a laser diffraction particle size
analyzer (Model LSTM 13 320 MW, Beckman Coulter*, Brea, California USA) equipped with a
dry cell.  Ideal particle size of an agglomerated starch particle is approximately 20 to 30 [tm;
however, an occasional presence of considerably larger agglomerates (e.g., about 100 to 150 [tm)
is not uncommon for this type of product. Preferred agglomerate size can be obtained by either
sieving out the larger agglomerates during the process, or by controlling process conditions (such
as mixer speed, type of equipment used for agglomeration, and controlling the moisture level
during mixing of the base starch and the soluble starch). Milling or grinding the agglomerates is
another option for reducing particle size but typically not preferred due to risk of damage to the
starch granules and agglomerates.
Examples
[0085] The following examples illustrate various methods of thermally inhibiting starches
according to this invention from waxy maize starch granules and the results of the variations in
the processes on viscosity and settling volume/solubility.
                                                23

Example 1 - Laboratory-Scale Production
[0086] Starch samples having various levels of starch binding agent and various amounts of
buffer in either the starch binding agent and/or the starch granules were prepared according to
the recipes in Table 1 below.
                              Table 1 - Sample Recipes and Processes
               Amount of        Amount of            Amount of
               starch binding   buffer in starch     buffer m starch
    Sample     agent' (%w/w     binding agent        (%ww based          Process/Remarks
               based on         (%w/w based on        %/bae
               tarch starch             granules)    on starch
               granules)                             granules)
                                                                     Agglomerated (by
       Al            5.00               1.00               0.00      mixing) and thermally
                                                                     inhibited
                                                                     Agglomerated (by
       B             5.00              0.00                 1.20     mixing) and thermally
                                                                     inhibited
                                                                     Agglomerated (by
       C             1.80               0.00                1.20     spraying starch binding
                                                                     agent) and thermally
                                                                     inhibited
       D             0.00               0.00                1.20     Thermally inhibited.
                                                                     No agglomeration.
        E            5.00               0.00                1.20     Thermally inhibited
                                                                     and agglomerated
                                                                     Thermally inhibited
       F3             0.0                0.0                N/A      starch granules (no
                                                                     binding agent/no
                                                                     agglomeration).
        Starch binding agent was a commercially available cold water swelling starch derived
        from waxy maize (ULTRA-SPERSE* A starch obtained from Ingredion Incorporated,
        Westchester, Illinois).
    2    Starch granules were waxy maize starch obtained from Ingredion Incorporated,
        Westchester, Illinois.
    3    Comparative non-agglomerated control thermally inhibited starch granules.
                                                  24

[0087] Each Sample was prepared based on the recipes and processes provided in Table 1 to
demonstrate their effect on viscosity, as well as to compare thermally inhibited agglomerated
starches against non-agglomerated thermally inhibited starches (i.e., Samples D and F).      The
Samples were prepared as follows.
[0088] Sample Al was prepared by buffering the starch binding agent to a pH of 6.0 prior to
mixing with waxy maize native starch granules. No pH adjustment was performed on the starch
granules themselves. The pH-adjusted solubilized starch binding agent was then mixed together
with the starch granules using a lab mixer by spraying the solubilized starch binding agent onto
the starch granules while mixing. The resultant starch mixture was then dried using an oven
maintained at 50'C to form starch agglomerates and allowed to cool to room temperature. These
starch agglomerates were subsequently dehydrated at 125'C to anhy rous (i.e., less than 1%
moisture) and then heated in a forced air oven (Model M 115, Binder GmbH, Tuttlingen,
Germany) to 165'C to inhibit the starch agglomerates.
[0089] Sample B was prepared by buffering the starch granules to a pH of 7.0 prior to mixing
with the starch binding agent. No pH adjustment was performed on the solubilized starch biding
agent. The starch binding agent was mixed together with the pH-adjusted starch granules. A
high performance ring layer CoriMix* CM-20 mixer (Lbdige Process Technology, Paderborn,
Germany) was used to feed and mix together the starch binding agent and starch granules. The
resultant starch mixture was then dried using an oven maintained at 50'C to form starch
agglomerates and allowed to cool to room temperature.          These starch agglomerates were
subsequently dehydrated at 125'C to anhydrous (i.e., less than 1% moisture) and then heated in a
forced air oven (Model M 115, Binder GmbH, Tuttlingen, Germany) to 165'C to inhibit the
starch agglomerates.
[0090] Sample C was prepared by buffering the starch granules to a pH of 7.0.            No pH
adjustment was performed on the starch binding agent. As noted by the recipe provided above,
Sample C used less starch binding agent than Sample B when applying the starch binding agent
onto the granules by spraying.     The starch binding agent was mixed together with the pH
adjusted starch granules using a lab mixer by spraying starch binding agent onto the starch
granules while mixing. The resultant starch mixture was then dried using an oven maintained at
                                               25

50'C to form starch agglomerates and allowed to cool to room temperature.             These starch
agglomerates were subsequently dehydrated at 125'C to anhydrous (i.e., less than 1% moisture)
and then heated in a forced air oven (Model M 115, Binder GmbH, Tuttlingen, Germany) to
165 0 C to inhibit the starch agglomerates.
[0091] Sample D was prepared by buffering the starch granule to a pH of 7.0 and subsequently
dehydrating at 125'C to less than 1% moisture and then heated in a forced air oven (Model M
115, Binder GmbH, Tuttlingen, Germany) to 165'C to thermally inhibit the starch granules. No
agglomeration was performed.
[0092] Sample E was prepared by buffering the starch granules to a pH of 7.0. This pH adjusted
starch was then dehydrated at 125'C to anhydrous (i.e., less than 1%moisture) and then heated
in a forced air oven (Model M 115, Binder GmbH, Tuttlingen, Germany) to 165 0 C to inhibit the
starch granules. The resultant thermally inhibited starch was then mixed with the starch binding
agent using a lab mixer by spraying starch binding agent onto the starch granules while mixing.
The starch agglomerates were then dried using an oven maintained at 50'C to form starch
agglomerates and allowed to cool to room temperature.
[0093] Sample F was a non-agglomerated, thermally inhibited waxy corn starch prepared by a
process in which pH adjusted (to maintain near neutral or slightly alkaline conditions) waxy
maize starch granules are dry thermally inhibited in a fluid-bed reactor as described in US patent
No. 5932017 (Chiu et al. (1999). This process does not involve agglomeration of starch granules
using a binding agent.
No further modification was performed on the starch. No starch agglomerates were formed.
 [0094] Each Sample was evaluated for paste viscosity. Results of the viscosity evaluations are
illustrated by the pasting profiles in Figure 1. From Figure 1 it is seen that starch granules that
are agglomerated and subsequently thermally inhibited (Samples A-C) have an unexpectedly
higher paste viscosity versus starch granules that are thermally inhibited and subsequently
agglomerated (Sample E). Further, thermally inhibited starch agglomerates wherein the binding
 agent is buffered and the starch granules are not resulted in a higher pasting viscosity than
thermally inhibited starch agglomerates wherein the starch granules are buffered and the binding
                                                 26

agent is not (Sample A v. Sample B). Reducing the amount of binding agent in the agglomerate
resulted in a reduction of the viscosity (Sample B v. Sample C), yet still provided an
unexpectedly higher viscosity over starch granules that are thermally inhibited and subsequently
agglomerated (Sample C v. Sample E).
[0095] Each Sample in Example 1 was also evaluated for settling volume. All samples were
cooked in boiling water for 20 minutes and allowed to settle for 48 hours in a 100 mL graduated
cylinder in a pH 3.0 buffer. Results of the settling volume are illustrated in Figure 2. Samples
which had the higher settling volume ('SV') (column on the left for each Sample) and least
 amount of solubles (column on the right for each Sample) are desirable. From Figure 2 it is seen
that starch granules that are agglomerated using a buffered binding agent and subsequently
thermally inhibited provided the best results (Sample A).          Generally, the higher the SV the
 higher the granular swelling, resulting in higher pasting viscosity.
 [0096] Each Sample was also evaluated for particle size distribution.           The results were as
 follows
                                 Table 2 - Particle Size Distribution
      Sample  Peak 1 (pm)    Peak 2 (gm)    Median particle size (pm)             Remarks
        Al         20            100                   76                Bimodal size distribution
        B          20            175                   97                Bimodal size distribution
        C          15            130                   54                Bimodal size distribution
        D          16             60                    15               Approximately unimodal
                                                                                distribution
        E          20            175                   61                Bimodal size distribution
         F         18             50                   33                Bimodal size distribution
                                                                            (overlapping peaks)
 The range of size distribution for Sample Al (which provided the highest viscosity) is 6 - 300[tm
 with two peaks as shown in Table 2 above.
 Example 2 - Pilot Scale Production
 [0097] Starch samples having 5% starch binding agent (based on weight of the starch granules)
 and various amounts of buffer in either the starch binding agent or the starch granules were
 prepared according to the recipes in Table 2 below.
                                                   27

                             Table 2 - Sample Recipes and Processes
              Amount of         Amount of           Amount of
              starch binding                        buffer in starch
                  aetI(%w/w     buffer in starch    granules 2
    Sample     aent'            binding agent       (%w/w based          Process/Remarks
              starch            starc ganes         on starch
              granules)         starch granules)    granules)
      A2            5.00                1.00              0.00       Agglomerated and then
                                                                     thermally inhibited
      F3            0.00               0.00               N/A        Commercial reference
       G            5.00               0.00               2.00       Agglomerated and then
                                                                     thermally inhibited
                    0.00               0.00                0.00      Starch granules
      H4
                                                                     reference
        Starch binding agent was a commercially available cold water swelling starch derived
        from waxy maize (ULTRA-SPERSE* A starch obtained from Ingredion Incorporated,
        Westchester, Illinois).
    2   Starch granules were waxy maize starch obtained from Ingredion Incorporated,
        Westchester, Illinois.
    3   Comparative Sample F was a non-agglomerated waxy corn starch prepared as disclosed
        above.
    4   Comparative non-agglomerated control thermally inhibited starch granules.
[0098] Each Sample was prepared based on the recipes and processes provided in Table 2 to
show their effect on viscosity. The Samples were prepared as follows.
[0099] Sample A2 was prepared by buffering the starch binding agent to a pH of 6.0 prior to
mixing with the waxy maize native starch granules. No pH adjustment was performed on the
starch granules themselves. The pH-adjusted starch binding agent was then mixed together with
the starch granules.    A high performance ring layer CoriMix* CM-20 mixer (Lbdige Process
Technology, Paderborn, Germany) was used to feed and mix together the starch binding agent
and starch granules forming starch agglomerates. The resultant starch agglomerates were then
flash dried using a pilot scale flash/ring dryer (GEA Barr-Rosin, Hudson, Wisconsin USA) and
allowed to cool to room temperature. These starch agglomerates were subsequently dehydrated
                                                 28

at 125'C to less than 1% moisture and then heated in an FDR-100 fluidized bed reactor
(Procedyne Corp., New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA) to 165'C to inhibit the starch
agglomerates. Sample A2 is similar to Sample Al above in the recipe used; however, Sample
A2 is prepared using pilot-scale process equipment, whereas Sample Al is prepared in the lab
using lab equipment.
[0100] Sample F was the same non-agglomerated, thermally inhibited waxy corn starch
described above. No starch agglomerates were formed. Sample F is provided again to illustrate
the pasting profile of a non-agglomerated thermally inhibited starch against thermally inhibited
starch agglomerates according to the present invention.
[0101] Sample G was prepared by buffering the waxy maize native starch granules to a pH of
7.0 prior to mixing with the solubilized starch binding agent. No pH adjustment was performed
on the starch binding agent. The starch binding agent was then mixed together with the pH
adjusted starch granules.    A high performance ring layer CoriMix* CM-20 mixer (Lbdige
Process Technology, Paderborn, Germany) was used to feed and mix together the starch binding
agent and starch granules forming starch agglomerates. The resultant starch agglomerates were
then flash dried using a pilot scale flash/ring dryer (GEA Barr-Rosin, Hudson, Wisconsin USA)
and allowed to cool to room temperature.            These starch agglomerates were subsequently
dehydrated at 125'C to less than 1% moisture and then heated in an FDR-100 fluidized bed
reactor (Procedyne Corp., New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA) to 165'C to inhibit the starch
agglomerates.
 [0102] Sample H was an unmodified native waxy maize starch obtained from Ingredion
 Incorporated, Westchester, Illinois to illustrate the pasting profile of native starch granules. No
 modification was performed on the starch. No starch agglomerates were formed.
 [0103] Each Sample was evaluated for paste viscosity. Results of the viscosity evaluations are
 illustrated by the pasting profiles in Figure 2.      It was evident from the results that the pH
 adjustment of either the starch granules or the starch binding agent (coating and agglomerating
 agent) has an impact on the final pasting viscosity of the corresponding thermally inhibited
 starch. Regardless of the method of pH adjustment, agglomeration provides substantially higher
 paste viscosity compared to the non-agglomerated, thermally inhibited waxy corn starch control.
                                                   29

From Figure 3 it is seen that starch granules that are agglomerated and subsequently thermally
inhibited (Samples A2 and G) have an unexpectedly higher paste viscosity versus control
thermally inhibited starch granules that are not agglomerated (Sample F). Further, the results
illustrate that pH adjustment of either the starch granules (Sample G) or the starch binding agent
(Sample A2) has an impact on the final paste viscosity of the corresponding thermally inhibited
starch.
[0104] Settling volumes and solubles of the thermally inhibited samples in this Example 2 were
comparable to those of the thermally inhibited agglomerated samples discussed in Example 1.
[0105] In summary, starches agglomerated by binding starch granules using either a dispersed or
solubilized starch as the binding agent, and then thermally inhibiting the starch agglomerates
results in starch having a substantially higher paste viscosities than both (i) the same starch that
is thermally inhibited and then agglomerated using the same binding agent and (ii) the same
starch that is not agglomerated. The highest paste viscosities occur when the binding agent is pH
adjusted prior to applying the agent to starch granules. The viscosity of the end product depends
upon - in addition to the degree of thermal inhibition (time and temperature) - three main
factors: (1) process used, (2) proportion or amount of binding agent used, and (3) distribution of
buffer between the starch granule and the binding agent.
 [0106] While particular embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and
 described, it would be obvious to those skilled in the art that various other changes and
 modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is
 therefore intended to cover in the appended claims all such changes and modifications that are
 within the scope of this invention.
                                                  30

We claim:
1. A method of increasing the viscosity of thermally inhibited starch comprising:
       forming starch agglomerates comprising a starch binding agent and starch granules,
       dehydrating the starch agglomerates to anhydrous or substantially anhydrous, and
       heat treating the anhydrous or substantially anhydrous starch agglomerates at a
   temperature of about 100'C to about 200'C for up to about 20 hours thereby thermally
   inhibiting the starch agglomerates.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the starch binding agent is formed by at least partially
   solubilizing a starch or the starch binding agent is formed by at least partially solubilizing in
   a buffer, thereby rendering the solubilized starch binding agent substantially neutral or
   slightly alkaline prior to mixing with the starch granules.
3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the starch binding agent is at least partially
   gelatinized.
4. The method according to any of claims I to 3, wherein the starch binding agent and the
   starch granules are derived: from the same native starch or from different native starches.
5. The method according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the starch binding agent is derived
   from a modified starch.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the modified starch is an enzymatically modified
   starch or a chemically modified starch.
7. The method according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the starch granules are native starch
   granules or waxy starch granules.
8. The method according to any of claims I to 7, further comprising dispersing the starch
   granules in a buffer, thereby rendering the starch granules substantially neutral or slightly
   alkaline, prior to mixing with the starch binding agent.

9. The method according to any of claims 1 to 8, wherein the amount of starch binding agent is
    about 0.05 wt% to about 50.0%, based on the weight of the starch granules.
10. The method according to any of claims I to 9, further comprising adjusting the pH of the
    agglomerates to from 7.0 to 9.5 prior to heat treating.
11. The method according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein the thermally inhibited starch
    agglomerates have a higher viscosity than that of thermally inhibited, non-agglomerated, starch
    granules derived from the same starch as the granules in the starch agglomerates, wherein the
    thermally inhibited, nonagglomerated, starch granules and thermally inhibited starch agglomerates
    were thermally inhibited under the same conditions.
12. An agglomerated starch obtained according to the method of any of claims 1 to 11.
13. A food product comprising the agglomerated starch according to claim 12.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
