                                         ABSTRACT
A method for integrated gas treatment in an aluminum smelting process, which comprises
delivering non-fluorinated alumina to an electrolytic cell comprising a housing, wherein an
upper area of the housing represents a superstructure and at least one of the non-fluorinated
alumina and a fluorinated alumina forms a fluidized bed within the superstructure; and
removing gaseous fluoride from process gases produced by the electrolytic cell by adsorbing
the gaseous fluoride using the non-fluorinated alumina in the fluidized bed, the adsorption of
the gaseous fluoride by the non-fluorinated alumina creating the fluorinated alumina and semi
scrubbed process gases.
Fig. 1

                                   INTEGRATED GAS TREATMENT
                          CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
         [0001] The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application
No.2014396862, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH
       [0002]     Not applicable.
                                      FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE
       [0003]     The present disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for integrated gas
treatment (IGT). More particularly, the present disclosure relates to reducing the capital and operating
costs of a smelting process system and improving the environmental impact of the smelting process
using an IGT system to remove and filter environmentally hazardous gases and particulates from each
electrolytic cell in the smelting process system.
                                 BACKGROUND OF THE DISCLOSURE
       [0003a] A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as prior art is
not to be taken as an admission or a suggestion that the document or matter was known, or that the
information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of any of the
claims.
       [0003b] Throughout the description and claims of the specification, the word "comprise" and
variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not intended to exclude other
additives, components, integers or steps.
       [0004]     Aluminum metal is produced industrially by electrolysis of smelter grade (or other)
alumina in a molten electrolyte, using the well-known Hall-H6roult process. This process may be
referred to herein generally as a smelting process. The electrolyte is contained in a pot comprising a
steel pot shell, which is coated on the inside with refractory and insulating materials, and a cathodic
assembly located at the bottom of the electrolytic cell. Carbon anodes extend into the above referenced
electrolyte composed of molten cryolyte and dissolved alumina. A direct current, which may reach
values of more than 500 kA, flow through the anodes, electrolyte and cathode generating reactions that
reduce the alumina to aluminum metal, and that heat the electrolyte by the Joule effect to a temperature
of approximately 9600 C.
       [0005]     Emissions from the electrolytic cell are comprised of a number of gaseous and
particulate constituents, also referred to as process gases, such as hydrogen fluoride (Fg) and

particulate fluoride (Fp). The mechanics involved with the generation of Fg and Fp by the
electrolytic cell include:
            i.   electrochemical hydrolysis of hydrogen (H) sources that react with the molten
                electrolyte (at -960'C) forming gaseous hydrogen fluoride (e.g. structural hydroxyls
                (OH) in the alumina as measured by the Loss on Ignition (LOI 300*C to 1000*C),
                hydrogen in the carbon anodes);
           ii.   thermal hydrolysis of hydrogen (H) sources entering the electrolytic cell that react
                with electrolyte vapor (-400'C) escaping through the crust forming gaseous
                hydrogen fluoride (e.g. loosely bound moisture on the surface of alumina, moisture
                from ambient air drawn into the electrolytic' cell, and incomplete calcination of
                gibbsite in the alumina as measured by the Moisture on Ignition (MOI 20*C up to
                300*C));
          iii.  electrolyte vapor that condenses forming fine fluoride particulates; and
                                                                                              cell process
          iv.   particulate materials containing fluoride that are entrained in electrolytic
                gases.
                                                                                environment and metal
        [0006] Recovery of Fg and Fp are of primary importance to the
reduction cost. Total fluoride (Fg and Fp) emissions to the environment are from two principle
                                                                                      and gas collection
sources; that being, fugitive emissions that escape the electrolytic cell hooding
                                                                              a thermal plume to the
systems, which are discharged by the pot-room roof ventilator in
                                                                                              and filtered
environment, and the residual fluoride emissions that are not adsorbed by the alumina
                                                                                           by an exhaust
in the injection type dry scrubbing system, which are discharged to the environment
                                                                                             4 times that
stack. The former being the dominate emission source typically in the order of
discharged by the dry scrubber stack measured in terms of total mass of fluoride (Ft = Fg + Fp)
released per tonne aluminum produced (kg Ft /t Al).
                                                    2

        [0007] In terms of emission containment and capture, removable side covers facilitate
periodic carbon anode assembly replacement and form the electrolytic cell's hooding system for
minimizing the release of fugitive (untreated) emissions directly to the pot-room and environment.
The emission collection efficiency of an electrolytic cell is predominately dependent upon the
hooding efficiency, defined as the ratio of open area to closed area of a theoretically sealed
electrolytic cell superstructure. The electrolytic cell ventilation rate and related under-pressure
created inside the hooding system are important to ensure efficient emissions capture. The hooding
efficiency and ventilation rate determine the leakage of fugitive emissions to the pot-room
environment from the electrolytic process through gaps at the seams of the superstructure side
cover panels, around anode stem penetrations and end tapping doors when the electrolytic cell is
closed or open for electrolytic cell maintenance and metal tapping. The ventilation rate from each
electrolytic cell consists predominately of ambient air drawn into the electrolytic cell through gaps
                                                                                                  The
in the hooding system to ensure efficient capture of the process gases and pollutants.
ventilation capability (size) of the Gas Treatment Centre (GTC) is strongly influenced by this
ingress of ambient air drawn into the electrolytic cell.
         [0008] The net ventilation volume from the electrolytic cell is the sum of the process gases
                                                                                       and ambient air
produced by the smelting process (typically less than 1%of net ventilation volume)
                                                                             cell through gaps in the
(typically 99% of net ventilation volume) drawn into the electrolytic
hooding system. The process gas temperature varies indirectly with the process gas flow meaning
                                                                                             flow can
that conventional smelting process systems with significantly reduced ventilation
theoretically generate process gas temperatures up to about 400 degrees celcius.
         [0009] In addition to the fluoride emission rate from the pot-room roof being significantly
 greater in magnitude than that from the discharge stack of the injection type dry scrubbing system,
                                                                                              are also
 fugitive (untreated) fluoride emissions released to the pot-room and environment
                                                    3

considerably cooler than the residual fluoride emissions emitted from the stack of the injection type
                                                                                         a given set of
dry scrubbing system. The dispersion of emissions into the atmosphere for
meteorological conditions is predominately driven by thermal buoyancy in the plume, Thus, the
                                                                                 less effective than that
dispersion of cooler pot-room fugitive emissions tends to be considerably
for residual (relatively hotter) fluoride emissions from the dry scrubber stack.
                                                                                    the surface of fresh
         [0010] Dry adsorption and chemisorption of gaseous fluorides onto
                                                                                                as the feed
alumina followed by the recycle of the fluorinated alumina back to the electrolytic cell,
                                                                                            technique for
material for an aluminum smelting process, is widely accepted as the best available
                                                                                            system uses a
abating fluoride emissions from an electrolytic cell. The injection type dry scrubbing
two-step integrated process; first adsorption followed by chemisorption of gaseous hydrogen
                                                                                      and filtration of the
fluoride onto the surface of smelter grade alumina, and then the disengagement
                                                                             residual emissions) to the
 alumina and particulate before releasing scrubbed gases (including
 environment.
                                                                                      diagram illustrating
          [0011] The following description refers to FIG. 1, which is a schematic
                                                                                Center (GTC) 1.30 using
 a conventional smelting process system with a centralized Gas Treatment
                                                            cell 1.31 and pot-room building 1.19. The
 injection type dry scrubbing outside of the electrolytic
                                                                             are collected and conveyed
 process gases from the superstructure 1.1 of each electrolytic cell 1.31
                                                                          (untreated) process gases not
 to the centralized GTC 1.30 by a process gas duct 1.34. Fugitive
                                                            hooding system escape into the pot-room
 captured in each superstructure 1.1 by a conventional
                                                                                                  through a
 building 1.19 where they are then vented to the environment in an emission plume 1.22
                                                                      fluoride occurs at the reactor 1.23
 roof gravity ventilator 1,20. The primary scrubbing of hydrogen
                                                                                                       gases
 where fresh alumina 1.24 and recycled fluorinated alumina 1.25 are injected into the process
                                                                          process gases through a semi
  from the process gas duct 1.34 and exit the reactor as semi-scrubbed
                                                                          process gases and fluorinated
  scrubbed process gas duct 1.35. The mixture of the semi-scrubbed
                                                      4

alumina are separated by secondary scrubbing using one or more filters 1.26. Secondary scrubbing
occurs at the filter cake on the outer surface of the filters 1.26. The recycled fluorinated alumina
1.25, injected at several times the fresh alumina 1.24 injection rate, improves the contact quality
between the process gases and alumina resulting in better fluoride distribution in the fluorinated
alumina 1.33 and a higher gaseous fluoride adsorption efficiency.          The recycled, fluorinated
alumina 1.25 also provides limited reserve scrubbing capability should the fresh alumina 1.24 be
interrupted.   It is, however, preferable to reduce, if not eliminate, the recycle rate (ratio of the
                                                                                                       to
recycled, fluorinated alumina 1.25 to fresh alumina 1.24) as high recycle rates are known
contribute to increased alumina attrition, scale formation, energy consumption, system abrasion and
                                                                                                      the
dust load on the filters 1.26. Contact time between the alumina and hydrogen fluoride in
                                                                                 total average contact
process gases for primary scrubbing is measured in terms of seconds. The
                                                                                                  and in
time between the alumina and hydrogen fluoride in the process gases for primary scrubbing
                                                                                       recycle rate and
the semi-scrubbed process gases for secondary scrubbing, when considering
                                                                                      one to two hours.
secondary reaction time at the surface of the filters 1.26, is measured in terms of
                                                                                             by exhaust
The scrubbed process gases 1.29 and residual fluorides are vented to the environment
                                                                                    fluorinated alumina
fans 1.28 and a stack 1.32. The fluorinated alumina 1.33 is typically stored in a
bin 1.27 and then conveyed back to each electrolytic cell 1.31 by a fluorinated alumina conveyor
                                                                                    feedstock for each
 1.18 where it is stored in fluorinated alumina superstructure bins 1.21 as
electrolytic cell 1.31.
         [0012] For injection type dry scrubbing systems several factors are paramount for achieving
                                                                                   even distribution of
 efficient hydrogen fluoride adsorption on the surface of the alumina, and
 fluoride (Fg + Fp) in the fluorinated alumina recycled back to the electrolytic cells, specifically:
                                                                                                       the
            i.   contact quality in terms of the intra-particle diffusion resistance between
                 hydrogen fluoride gases and alumina particles at the injection site;
                                                    5

            ii. process gas temperature during the adsorption process; and
           iii. an equal mass of fresh alumina reacting with an equal mass of hydrogen fluoride in
                the process gases between all operating filter compartments.
         [0013] Depending on the electrolytic cell operating current, electrolytic cell heat balance
and cover material (crust) maintenance practices, the temperature of the process gases exhausted
from conventional electrolytic cells typically varies between 100'C to 140"C above ambient
temperature. Due to heat loss from the process gas collection ductwork, the process gas
temperature typically enters the GTCs (without additional cooling) between 85"C to 125"C above
ambient temperature. A common practice employed today for injection type dry scrubbers is to
limit the gas temperature entering the GTC to 115"C to 125"C to enhance the adsorption of
hydrogen fluoride on to the surface of alumina. The corresponding temperature of the fluorinated
alumina discharged from conventional dry scrubbers and stored in the bins of an electrolytic cell's
                                                                                       20"C below the
 superstructure, which is then dosed into the molten electrolyte, is typically 10*C to
process gas temperature entering the dry scrubbers.
                                                                                    emissions test data
         [0014] In addition, International Publication WO 2008/024931 describes
                                                                                               between
 for injection type dry scrubbing in a smelting process that confirms a strong correlation
 the amount of gaseous fluoride in scrubbed process gas emissions after injection type dry scrubbing
                                                                                           the process
 and the process gas temperature entering the GTC. This correlation has led to lowering
                                                                                   methods in order to
 gas temperature before the dry scrubbing process by direct or indirect cooling
 reduce the gaseous fluoride in scrubbed process gas emissions after injection type dry scrubbing.
                                                                                             formation
 As a result, conventional injection type dry scrubbing systems do not address abating the
 of fluoride at the source in an electrolytic cell because the amount of hydrogen entering the
 electrolytic cell with the fluorinated alumina returned from the injection type dry scrubbing
                                                    6

systems, in the form of free moisture, increases as the process gas temperature entering the dry
scrubbing process decreases.
        [0015] The next generation of potlines will exceed 460 electrolytic cells thus, extending the
length of the pot-rooms to over 1,300 meters. In addition to longer potlines, electrolytic cell
amperage has and will continue to exceed well beyond 500 kA. As a consequence, the energy
released to the process gases has and will continue to increase the process gas exhaust temperature,
thereby potentially reducing the adsorption efficiency of gaseous fluoride on the surface of the
alumina and eroding adsorption efficiency of injection type dry scrubbing systems if suitable
countermeasures to cool the gases are not included in the GTC design. The injection type dry
scrubbing systems used on new electrolytic cell potlines have followed an economies of scale
approach resulting in an ever increasing dry scrubber system size and process gas conveyance
                                                                                    to no incremental
distance. This approach further increases the capital and operating costs at little
benefit, which is now at the point of diminishing returns. Constructing large GTC systems (and
                                                                         with and interferes with the
related ancillaries) in the courtyard between pot-rooms also competes
                                                                               congestion in this area
construction of the smelting process plant housed inside the pot-rooms. The
                                                                                   equipment and the
 creates inefficiency and raises the probability of an incident putting people,
 execution schedule at ever increasing risk.
                                                                          of the electrolytic cell and
         [0016] Existing emission control systems, configured outside
                                                                        non-compliant environmental
 pot-rooms, often require additional investment to upgrade or replace
                                                                              current of an aluminum
 control systems as part of the plan to incrementally increase the operating
                                                                                  investment required
 smelting process to incrementally increase metal production. The additional
 for environmental compliance is to the detriment of the upgrade project's economic viability.
         [0017] Economies of scale combined with relatively low-cost energy, vital to this energy
                                                                                      to well over one
 intensive industry, have driven the capacity of the largest aluminum smelter plants
                                                   7

                                                                                                        3
million tons of annual capacity. Compliance with ambient air quality concentration (jig Fg/m )
standards at ground contact for gaseous fluoride and sulphur dioxide emissions becomes a
                                                                                             with over a
significant challenge for such large process plants. The modem smelters operating
million tons of annual aluminum smelting capacity require and use additional emission abatement
                                                                                       often doubling the
equipment and systems to comply with the prevailing regulatory requirements,
                                                                                                     water
investment and operating cost of emission abatement systems and in some cases waste
outfalls to the sea.
                                                                               the conventional injection
          [00181 The formation and accumulation of hard grey scale in
                                                                 severely diminish emission abatement
type dry scrubbing system can, if not properly managed,
                                                                      of one or more scrubbing modules
performance of the GTC, and in some cases cause the shutdown
                                                                                    is a function of flow
 or ventilation fans for maintenance. The scale formation rate of alumina
                                                                                         micron particles,
 turbulence, the presence of fluoride and bath species, the presence of minus 20
                                                                                       and or diminished,
 and the presence of moisture - if any one of these four elements are removed
 scale formation would respectively be eliminated or dramatically reduced.
                                                                        in a conventional electrolytic cell
           [0019] Purity of aluminum metal produced by electrolysis
                                                             to the electrolytic cell. The quality of the
 is, to a great extent, a function of alumina quality fed
                                                                   of the impurities collected from all
 fluorinated alumina, in terms of impurities, is a function
                                                          gas collection system. Metal purity and its
  operating electrolytic cells connected to the GTC
                                                                                                performing
  variation from any one electrolytic cell are negatively impacted by the poorest
  electrolytic cells connected to the same GTC.
                                                                         other things, a function of the
            [0020] Electrolytic cell operating efficiency is, among
                                                                                          generated by the
  alumina quality fed to the electrolytic cell. The quality of the fluorinated alumina
                                                                      the fines content, temperature and
  conventional injection type dry scrubbing system, in terms of
                                                      8

moisture content is a function of the GTC design and its operating parameters. The conventional
injection type dry scrubbing system can negatively impact alumina quality in terms of:
             i.  Fines content: Increasing the fines content of fresh alumina due to particle attrition
                 created by material handling and injection (including alumina recycle). Increasing
                 the fines content impedes alumina dissolution into the molten electrolyte, increasing
                 the potential for what is known in the industry as "slugging;"
            ii.  Temperature: Relatively cool alumina temperature fed to the electrolytic cell, as
                                                                                          energy to heat
                 compared to the molten electrolyte temperature, requires additional
                 the feed material;
                                                                                                      feed
           iii.  Moisture: Free moisture (water) entering the electrolytic cell with the alumina
                 material, measured in terms of MOI and to a lesser extent LOI, requires energy to
                                                                                             the "volcano
                  drive off the moisture and leads to what is known in the industry as
                                                                                           is fed into the
                  effect" due to the flash vaporization of the moisture when alumina
                  cryolyte, which impedes alumina dissolution.
                                                                    GTC configurations) are known for
          [0021] To date, no viable alternatives (to conventional
                                                                                cell process gases at the
 reducing the life cycle cost for recovering fluorides from the electrolytic
 same, or better, adsorption efficiency than is achieved today.
                                  SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
                                                                      needs and overcomes one or more
          [0022] The present disclosure therefore, meets the above
                                                                          for reducing the capital and
  deficiencies in the prior art by providing systems and methods
                                                                      the environmental impact of the
  operating costs of a smelting process system and improving
                                                                                     hazardous gases and
  smelting process using an IGT system to remove and filter environmentally
                                                                   system.
  particulates from each electrolytic cell in the smelting process
                                                      9

       [0023]    In one embodiment, the present disclosure includes a method for integrated gas
treatment in an aluminum smelting process, which comprises:
       delivering non-fluorinated alumina to an electrolytic cell comprising a housing, wherein an
upper area of the housing represents a superstructure and at least one of the non-fluorinated alumina
and a fluorinated alumina forms a fluidized bed within the superstructure; and
       removing gaseous fluoride from process gases produced by the electrolytic cell by adsorbing the
gaseous fluoride using the non-fluorinated alumina in the fluidized bed, the adsorption of the gaseous
fluoride by the non-fluorinated alumina creating the fluorinated alumina and semi-scrubbed process
gases.
       [0024]    In another embodiment, the present disclosure includes a system for smelting alumina,
which comprises:
       an electrolytic cell comprising a housing wherein an upper area of the housing represents a
superstructure; and
       a porous floor within the superstructure for supporting a fluidized bed comprising at least one of
non-fluorinated alumina and fluorinated alumina.
       [0025]    Additional aspects, advantages and embodiments of the disclosure will become
apparent to those skilled in the art from the following description of the various embodiments and
related drawings.
electrolyte composed of molten cryolyte and dissolved alumina and
                                                    10

                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [0026] The present disclosure is described below with reference to the accompanying
drawings in which like elements are referenced with like reference numerals, and in which:
         [0027] FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating a conventional smelting process system
with a centralized GTC using injection type dry scrubbing.
         [0028] FIG. 2 is a schematic, cross-sectional view of a pot-room and electrolytic cell in a
smelting process system illustrating one embodiment of an IGT system according to the present
disclosure.
         [0029] FIG. 3 is a schematic, cross-sectional view illustrating the electrolytic cell in FIG. 2
taken along line 3-3 at the fresh alumina feeder.
         [0030] FIG. 4 is a schematic, cross-sectional view illustrating the electrolytic cell in FIG. 2
taken along line 4-4 at the fluorinated alumina breaker-feeder.
               DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
         [0031] The subject matter of the present disclosure is described with specificity; however,
the description itself is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure. The subject matter thus,
                                                                                         steps similar to
might also be embodied in other ways, to include different steps or combinations of
the ones described herein, in conjunction with other present or future technologies.          Moreover,
 although the term "step" may be used herein to describe different elements of methods employed,
the term should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps
 herein disclosed unless otherwise expressly limited by the description to a particular order. While
                                                                                                   of the
 the following description refers to the aluminum smelting industry, the systems and methods
                                                                                           and processes
 present disclosure are not limited thereto and may also be applied in other industries
 to achieve similar results.
                                                    11

        [0032] The following description refers to FIGS. 2-4, which includes a description of the
systems and methods for improving the efficiency and environmental impact of the smelting
process using an IGT system to remove and filter environmentally hazardous gases and particulates
from each electrolytic cell in the smelting process. The systems and methods described herein also
use the IGT system to abate the hazardous gases, such as fluoride emissions, from each electrolytic
cell, by reducing the source of hydrogen entering the electrolytic cell, and improve the quality of
the fluorinated alumina fed to the same electrolytic cell as feed material for smelting aluminum.
Contrary to conventional smelting process systems with a centralized GTC using injection type dry
scrubbing, the JGT system is configured inside each electrolytic cell and operates at an elevated
temperature up to that which the chemical adsorption of gaseous fluoride onto the surface of the
alumina is no longer irreversible (approximately 400'C). The IGT system will thus, reduce the
capital and operating costs of a smelting process system and improve the environmental impact of
the smelting process. To the extent that temperatures and pressures are used in connection with the
following description, those conditions are merely illustrative and are not meant to limit the
disclosure.
        [0033] Referring now to FIG. 2, a schematic, cross-sectional view of a pot-room and
electrolytic cell in a smelting process system illustrates one embodiment of an IGT system
according to the present disclosure, Fresh (non-fluorinated) alumina 2.21 is delivered directly to the
superstructure 2.22 for each electrolytic cell 2.30 by a fresh alumina conveyor 2.25 where it enters
a fresh alumina feeder assembly 2.4, which is further described in reference to FIG. 3. The
conventional fluorinated alumina superstructure bins are replaced by a fluidized bed 2.3, initially
comprising fresh alumina 2.21, and a filter system 2.5 for removing gaseous and particulate
fluoride from process gases. The fluidized bed 2.3 is supported by a porous floor 2.2 that permits
the gaseous and particulate fluoride from process gases to pass through it while supporting the
                                                   12

fresh alumina 2.21. A dedicated variable speed exhaust fan 2.12 creates sufficient under-pressure
within a hooding system of the superstructure 2.22 for each electrolytic cell 2.30, consisting
                                                                                                      air
primarily of removable side covers 2.26, to entrain the scrubbed process gases 2.6 and ambient
drawn into the electrolytic cell 2.30 during both the closed and open electrolytic cell operating
conditions. The scrubbed process gases 2.6 discharged from the exhaust fan 2.12 are conveyed by a
dedicated scrubbed process gas duct 2.18 to an area under the pot-room roof gravity ventilator 2.29.
The relatively hot scrubbed process gases 2.6 then enter an inductor 2.13 and are thus, vented
through the pot-room roof gravity ventilator 2.29 to an open environment outside the electrolytic
                                                                                                     The
cell 2.30 and pot-room 2.28 at a temperature greater than 125'C and up to about 400"C.
                                                                                         ventilator 2.29
inductor 2.13 induces additional ventilation flow through the pot-room roof gravity
 and increases the ambient air 2.19 drawn into the pot-room 2.28 through various designed
                                                                                                   gases
 openings. The emission plume 2.16 leaving the pot-room 2.28 includes the scrubbed process
                                                                                      cell 2.30 through
 2.6, ambient air 2.19 and fugitive (untreated) emissions escaping the electrolytic
                                                                            the centralized GTC 1.30
 various gaps therein. The IGT system thus, eliminates the need for
                                                                         in each electrolytic cell 1.31.
 illustrated in FIG. 1 and fluorinated alumina superstructure bins 1.21
                                                                cross-sectional view illustrates the
          [0034] Referring now to FIG. 3, a schematic,
                                                                         feeder. The level of the fresh
 electrolytic cell in FIG. 2 taken along line 3-3 at the fresh alumina
                                                                             by a fresh alumina feeder
 alumina 2.21 initially deposited in the fluidized bed 2.3 is maintained
                                                                                 conveyor 2.25 into the
 assembly 2.4, which releases the fresh alumina 2.21 from the fresh alumina
                                                                                                       by
 fluidized bed 2.3. The hooding system efficiency of the electrolytic cell 2.30 is improved
                                                                                process gases 3.11 are
 reducing the open area (gaps) in the electrolytic cell 2.30 through which
                                                                        by an improved design of the
  prone to escape as fugitive emissions 3.39. This is accomplished
                                                                        removable side covers 2.26. In
  anode stem seals 3.32, the removable side cover seals 3.33 and the
                                                                              smelting process in the
  this manner, the collection of process gases 3.11 produced by the
                                                   13

electrolytic cell 2.30 and released through openings in the crust 3.35 is improved and the flow of
ambient air 3.10 drawn into the electrolytic cell 2.30 through various gaps therein is significantly
reduced. As a result, the temperature of the process gases 3.11 in the electrolytic cell 2.30 increases
                                                                                                  bed 2.3
causing the amount of gaseous fluoride in the process gases 3.11 to decrease. The fluidized
                                                                                                2.30 and
and filter system 2.5 are positioned in the superstructure 2.22 for each electrolytic cell
                                                                         in FIG. 1.
replace the conventional fluorinated alumina superstructure bins 1.21
                                                                             conditions, the mixture of
          [0035] In typical closed and open electrolytic cell operating
                                                                       cell 2.30 rise up through slots in
process gases 3.11 and ambient air 3.10 drawn into the electrolytic
                                                              through openings in the porous floor 2.2
 a gas skirt 3.1 at the bottom of the superstructure 2.22 and
                                                                          through the fluidized bed 2.3,
 supporting the fluidized bed 2.3. As the process gases 3.11 are drawn
                                                                       in the process gases 3.11 is first
 the fresh alumina 2.21 is fluidized and gaseous hydrogen fluoride
                                                                           2.21 at elevated temperatures
 adsorbed and then chemisorbed onto the surface of the fresh alumina
                                                                          is no longer irreversible (i.e.
 greater than 125'C and up to that at which the chemical reaction
                                                                fluoride entrained in the semi-scrubbed
 approximately 400"C). Fluorinated alumina and particulate
                                                      are then filtered by the filter system 2.5 before
 process gases 3.20 exiting the fluidized bed 2.3
                                                                      process gas plenum 3.46 that is
 releasing the scrubbed process gases 2.6 through a scrubbed
                                                                    The IGT system thus, removes and
  connected to the variable speed exhaust fan 2.12 in FIG. 2.
                                                                      each electrolytic cell 2.30 in the
  filters environmentally hazardous gases and particulates from
                                                                              gases 3.11 at an elevated
  smelting process by adsorbing gaseous fluoride from the process
                                                           achieved by significantly reducing the mass
  temperature inside each electrolytic cell 2.30. This is
                                                                                              IGT system
  flow of ambient air 3.10 drawn into each electrolytic cell 2.30 and by configuring the
                                                                                    resulting process gas
  within the existing superstructure 2.22 of each electrolytic cell 2.30. The
                                                              400'C. As a result, the amount of gaseous
  temperature for the reduced flow is increased up to about
                                                                                                       the
   fluoride in the process gases 3.11 decreases because the source of moisture (hydrogen) entering
                                                     14

electrolytic cell 2.30 foirming gaseous fluoride through thermal hydrolysis is reduced as the
temperature increases in the electrolytic cell 2.30.
         [0036] Referring now to FIG. 4, a schematic, cross-sectional view illustrates the
electrolytic cell in FIG. 2 taken along line 4-4 at the fluorinated alumina breaker-feeder. The
fluorinated alumina 4.17 in the fluidized bed 2.3 enters the electrolytic cell 2.30 as a premeasured
charge through an opening at the bottom 4.20 of the fluorinated alumina breaker-feeder assembly
4.7 when it is at an open position 4.18b shown in dashed lines. The fluorinated alumina 4.17 thus,
falls by gravity into a feeder hole 4.16 in the crust 3.35 created by the fluoi'inated alumina breaker
feeder assembly 4.7. Unlike conventional smelting processes using a centralized GTC, the
                                                                                                         a
fluorinated alumina 4.17 is not recycled back into the scrubbing process. Compressed air 4.9 from
                                                                                             valve 4.8, is
 compressed air supply 4.19, which is periodically exhausted from an actuator control
 directed to the filter system 2.5 for cleaning the filter system 2.5.
                                                                                 2.3 by the fluorinated
         [0037] The fresh alumina initially contained in the fluidized bed
                                                                                       residence time of
 alumina breaker-feeder assembly 4.7 in a closed position 4.18a has an average
                                                                                   react with the process
 between 12 hours and 15 hours (dependent on electrolytic cell technology) to
                                                                                              through an
 gases 3.11 before the fluorinated alumina 4.17 is released as a premeasured charge
                                                                            assembly 4.7, The extended
 opening at the bottom 4.20 of the fluorinated alumina breaker-feeder
                                                                                               4.17 in the
 residence time and reduced intra-particle diffusion resistance of the fluorinated alumina
 fluidized bed 2.3, as compared to conventional smelting processes with a centralized GTC, can
                                                                           the surface of fresh alumina.
 significantly enhance the adsorption kinetics of gaseous fluoride onto
                                                                                            alumina with
 The extended residence time and contact quality of the fresh alumina and fluorinated
 the process gases 3.11 in the fluidized bed 2.3 preheats the alumina to a temperature approaching
                                                                                         moisture on the
 the temperature of the scrubbed process gases 2.6. As a result, the loosely bound
                                                                                            gibbsite react
 surface of the alumina is desorbed and residual hydroxyls (OH) in the under calcined
                                                       15

to form H2 0 vapor before the fluorinated alumina 4.17 is released into the molten electrolyte 4.37
causing a reduction in the source of moisture (hydrogen) available in the electrolytic cell 2.30 that
is responsible for producing gaseous fluoride in the process gases 3.11.
         [0038] The IGT system illustrated in FIGS. 2-4 should thus, improve the efficiency and
environmental impact of the smelting process by: i) reducing the source of moisture (hydrogen)
entering the electrolytic cell forming gaseous fluoride through thermal hydrolysis; ii) desorbing
loosely bound moisture and residual hydroxyls (OH) before the fluorinated alumina is fed into the
molten electrolyte reducing the source of moisture (hydrogen) available in the electrolytic cell
forming gaseous fluoride by thermal and electrochemical hydrolysis; iii) reducing capital
investment and operating costs by reducing and / or eliminating           injection type dry scrubbing
                                                                                       effect of a lower
equipment and related ancillary equipment requirements due to the combined
                                                                                                   in the
mass flow from each electrolytic cell and configuration of the scrubbing equipment
                                                                                 the environment due to
 electrolytic cell superstructure; iv) reducing fugitive gas emission release to
                                                                                        formation rate in
 the combined effect of improved hooding efficiency and a lower gaseous fluoride
                                                                             due to reduced moisture in
 the electrolytic cell; v) reducing the formation rate for hard grey scale
                                                                                      migrating between
 the electrolytic cell; vi) improving metal purity due to the isolation of impurities
                                                                                          and heat due to
 electrolytic cells; vi) reducing exposure of personnel to electrolytic cell emissions
                                                                                  formation rate in each
 the combined effect of improved hooding efficiency, lower gaseous fluoride
                                                                                   plant compressed air
 electrolytic cell, and by increasing pot-room ventilation; vii) eliminating
                                                                                        alumina breaker
 consumption for filter cleaning by using the exhaust air from the fluorinated
                                                                                   improved fluorinated
 feeder assembly; viii) increasing electrolytic cell efficiency due to the
                                                                                    and moisture content
  alumina quality in terms of the fines content (lower), temperature (higher)
                                                                                             process gas
  (lower); ix) improving scrubbed process gas thermal properties due to higher
                                                                                               increasing
  temperatures improving waste heat capture and recovery opportunities; x) significantly
                                                      16

reaction time and lowering intra-particle diffusion resistance reducing emission sensitivity to
varying alumina supply quality; xi) increasing pot-room roof plume buoyancy improving
dispersion of residual pollutants resulting in lower ground concentrations at point of impingement
possibly avoiding investment in additional emission abatement equipment and systems to comply
with the prevailing regulatory requirements; xii) significantly reducing courtyard congestion during
plant construction due to the elimination of courtyard GTCs and related systems reducing the
construction risk; and xiii) providing an economically viable method for upgrade or replacement of
non-compliant environmental control systems as part of a plan to incrementally increase the
operating current of an aluminum smelting process to incrementally increase metal production.
         [0039] While the present disclosure has been described in connection with presently
                                                                                 it is not intended to
preferred embodiments, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that
 limit the disclosure to those embodiments,     It is therefore, contemplated that various alternative
 embodiments and modifications may be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing
                                                                             and equivalents thereof.
 from the spirit and scope of the disclosure defined by the appended claims
                                                     17

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1.     A method for integrated gas treatment in an aluminum smelting process, which comprises:
        delivering non-fluorinated alumina to an electrolytic cell comprising a housing, wherein an
upper area of the housing represents a superstructure and at least one of the non-fluorinated alumina
and a fluorinated alumina forms a fluidized bed within the superstructure; and
        removing gaseous fluoride from process gases produced by the electrolytic cell by adsorbing the
gaseous fluoride using the non-fluorinated alumina in the fluidized bed, the adsorption of the gaseous
fluoride by the non-fluorinated alumina creating the fluorinated alumina and semi-scrubbed process
gases.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the gaseous fluoride is adsorbed by the non-fluorinated alumina
at a temperature greater than 125 C.
3.      The method of claim 2, wherein the gaseous fluoride is adsorbed by the non-fluorinated alumina
at a temperature of up to about 400*C.
4.      The method of claim 1, wherein the gaseous fluoride is adsorbed by the non-fluorinated alumina
for at least three (3) hours.
5.      The method of claim 4, wherein the gaseous fluoride is adsorbed by the non-fluorinated alumina
for up to about fifteen (15) hours.
6.      The method of claim 1, further comprising filtering fluoride particulates entrained in the semi
scrubbed process gases, the filtering occurring within the superstructure above the fluidized bed and
producing scrubbed process gases.
7.      The method of claim 6, wherein the scrubbed process gases are vented to the open environment
at a temperature greater than 125*C in an emission plume.
8.      The method of claim 7, wherein the scrubbed process gases are vented to the open environment
at a temperature of up to 400'C in an emission plume.
9.      The method of claim 1, wherein the gaseous fluoride is adsorbed by using only the non
fluorinated alumina delivered to the electrolytic cell.
                                                     18

10.    The method of claim 1, wherein the fluorinated alumina is created only in the electrolytic cell.
11.    The method of claim 10, further comprising producing alumina metal in the electrolytic cell
using the fluorinated alumina from only the electrolytic cell.
12.    The method of claim 7, further comprising venting fugitive emissions from a potroom
surrounding the electrolytic cell to an open environment outside the electrolytic cell in the emission
plume.
13.    The method of claim 12, wherein the fugitive emissions are vented through a top opening in the
potroom using an inductor to induce venting of the fugitive emissions and ambient air through the top
opening.
14.    A system for smelting alumina, which comprises:
       an electrolytic cell comprising a housing wherein an upper area of the housing represents a
superstructure; and
       a porous floor within the superstructure for supporting a fluidized bed comprising at least one of
non-fluorinated alumina and fluorinated alumina,
15.    The system of claim 14, further comprising a gas skirt positioned within the electrolytic cell
below the porous floor, the gas skirt comprising a plurality of openings.
16.    The system of claim 14, further comprising a filter system positioned within the superstructure
above the porous floor.
17.    The system of claim 14, wherein the electrolytic cell comprises a pair of seals positioned around
each anode stem where each anode passes through the housing of the electrolytic cell.
18.    The system of claim 14, wherein the electrolytic cell comprises a plurality of side cover seals
positioned at a connection of each removable side cover to the housing of the electrolytic cell.
19.    The system of claim 17, further comprising a ventilation system operatively connecting an
opening in the superstructure to an open environment outside the electrolytic cell, wherein the
ventilation system includes an inductor positioned above the scrubbed process gas duct.
                                                    19

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
