                                                                 Attorney Docket No. FP150038
                                    ABSTRACT
The present disclosure discloses an inspection device, an inspection method and
an inspection system. The device comprises a distributed ray source comprising
multiple source points; a light source collimator arranged at a ray beam output end
of the distributed ray source, and configured to converge the rays generated by the
distributed ray source along fan-shaped radial lines to form an inverted fan-shaped
ray beam; a scatter collimator configured to only allow rays scattered at one or
more particular scattering angles which are generated by the rays from the light
source collimator interacting with inspected objects to pass; at least one detector
arranged on the downstream of the scatter collimator, each detector comprising
multiple detection units which have an energy resolution capability and are
substantially arranged in a cylindrical surface to receive the scattered rays passing
through the scatter collimator; and a processing apparatus configured to calculate
energy spectrum information of the scattered rays from the inspected objects
based on a signal output by the detectors. The device described above measures
an energy distribution of scattered X-rays at a fixed angle by using detectors having
an energy resolution capability, to obtain a lattice constant of materials, so as to
recognize categories of the materials.
              Fig. 1

           1/10
    110
                 130
120
        L            150
          Fig. 1

                                                                      Attorney Docket No. FP150038
               INSPECTION DEVICES, INSPECTION METHODS AND
                               INSPECTION SYSTEMS
   CROSS REFERENCE
            [0001]    The present application is a divisional application of Australian
     Patent Application 2015226613 filed 3 March 2015, the entire disclosure of
     which is incorporated herein by reference.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
            [0002]    The present disclosure relates to inspection systems based on a
 5   coherent X-ray scattering technology, and in particular, to inspection devices,
     inspection methods, and inspection systems for determining whether inspected
     object includes particular content such as explosives, dangerous articles or the
     like.
   BACKGROUND
            [0003]    More and more attention is paid to detection of explosives, drugs
10   or the like in objects such as luggage. Some detection measures, for example,
     Computer Tomography        (CT) detection technology, may obtain important
     information such as a spatial position distribution, density, mass, an effective
     atomic number or the like of various materials in the luggage, so as to recognize
     categories of different materials. When a suspicious material is detected by a
15   system, an alarm is generated and the suspicious material is delivered to a
     detection apparatus in next stage for detection or the suspicious material is
     detected manually.
            [0004]    However, it is still of a high error rate to judge whether a certain
     material is an explosive by using information such as density, an atomic number
20   or the like. In order to reduce the error rate of the whole system, reduce a
     number of manual detection operations and improve reliability of the system, a
     detection system based on coherent X-ray scattering is connected in series a CT
     detection system, which may significantly reduce the error rate of the system.
                                                   -1-

                                                                      Attorney Docket No. FP150038
           [0005]    The coherent X-ray scattering (X-ray diffraction) technology is
   used to detect materials (which mostly are crystal materials), and is primarily
   based on the Bragg diffraction equation as follows:
                       nA = 2d sin (O / 2) =nhc                (1)
 5         [0006]    wherein n is a diffraction emphasis level, and generally satisfies
    n =1 in explosive detection; A is a wavelength of an incident ray; d is a lattice
   spacing, and is also a lattice constant; 0 is a deflection angle after rays are
   scattered; h is a Planck constant; c is a velocity of light; and E is energy of
   incident photons. When various parameters               satisfy the above equation,
10 coherence emphasis occurs, the corresponding scattering is elastic scattering,
   and the energy of the X photons is unchanged.
           [0007]    In a diffraction pattern based on an energy distribution, an angle
   0 at which the measurement is implemented by the detector is fixed, i.e., the
   energy spectrum of the scattered X-rays is measured at a fixed scattering angle.
15 The lattice constant d and the energy E of the incident photons which satisfy the
   above equation are in a one-to-one relationship. Thus, fingerprint features of the
   crystal materials, i.e., lattice constants d, d2 ... d, may be determined according
   to the peak positions of the energy spectrums E, E2...En , so that different
   materials may be recognized. For example, typical explosives primarily include
20 different crystal materials, and the crystal types are recognized according to the
   lattice constants. Therefore, this method is an effective explosive detection
   measure.
           [0008]    A single-energy X-ray source may also be used to count X
   photons at different scattering angles. The crystal information is obtained
25 according to a one-to-one relationship between           e  and d . This method may
   reduce the requirements for the detector, but has higher requirements for mono
   chromaticity of the light source. In addition, it is inefficient to change an angle for
   measurement. This method is applied in an experiential device, but is
   infrequently used in practical designs and applications.
30         [0009]    A detection method based on an inverted fan-shaped beam is
   proposed. A system using an inverted fan-shaped beam achieves measurement
                                                 -2-

                                                                   Attorney Docket No. FP150038
     in a fixed manner by using a few detectors. In the inverted fan-shaped structure,
     scattered rays from objects in different positions in a detection plane which are
     perpendicular to a direction of a beam of rays are converged to a point on the
     detectors, which results in superposition of spectral lines of objects in two
 5   positions. In order to obtain information of various pixels in a section plane of
     materials, multiple light source points cannot illuminate at the same time, and
     need to emit rays in a certain order. This results in significant degradation of
     intensity of rays in the detection plane at any time and a relatively low signal-to
     noise ratio of data measured by the system in a case that the materials pass
10   through the detection plane at a certain speed.
   SUMMARY
             [0010]    In consideration of one or more problems in the related art, an
     inspection device, inspection method, and inspection system based on the
     coherent ray scattering technology are proposed, which have a three
     dimensional positioning capability and a high resolution capability, achieves a
15   high signal-to-noise ratio, and reduces the system cost.
             [0011]   According to an aspect of the present disclosure, an inspection
     device is provided, including: a distributed ray source comprising multiple source
     points to generate rays; a light source collimator arranged at a ray beam output
     end of the distributed ray source, and configured to converge the rays generated
20   by the distributed ray source along fan-shaped radial lines to form an inverted
     fan-shaped ray beam; a scatter collimator configured to only allow rays scattered
     at one or more particular scattering angles which are generated by the rays from
     the light source collimator interacting with inspected objects to pass; at least one
     detector arranged on the downstream of the scatter collimator, each detector
25   comprising multiple detection units which have an energy resolution capability
     and are substantially arranged in a cylindrical surface to receive the scattered
     rays passing through the scatter collimator; and a processing apparatus
     configured to calculate energy spectrum information of the scattered rays from
     the inspected objects based on a signal output by the detectors.
30           [0012]    Preferably, the processing apparatus is further configured to
     calculate a lattice constant based on peak position information included in the
                                                  -3-

                                                                   Attorney Docket No. FP150038
   energy spectrum information of the scattered rays, and judge whether the
   inspected objects include explosives or dangerous objects by comparing the
   calculated lattice constant with a predetermined value.
           [0013]    Preferably, the inspection device further comprises a control
 5 apparatus configured to control a particular source point in the distributed ray
   source to generate a ray according to input position information of a region of
   interest in the inspected objects to inspect the region of interest.
           [0014]    Preferably, the multiple source points of the distributed light
   source are distributed in an arc shape, a straight line shape, a U shape, an
10 inverted U shape, an L shape, or an inverted L shape.
           [0015]    Preferably, the scatter collimator comprises a bottom surface
   and multiple embedded cylindrical surfaces on the bottom surface, circular slots
   are arranged at predetermined range intervals in the multiple embedded
   cylindrical surfaces, and a slot is arranged on the bottom surface along an axial
15 direction of the cylindrical surfaces.
           [0016]    Preferably, the scatter collimator comprises a bottom surface
   and multiple embedded spherical surfaces on the bottom surface, circular slots
   are arranged at predetermined range intervals in the multiple embedded
   spherical surfaces, and a slot is arranged on the bottom surface along a radial
20 direction of the bottom surface.
           [0017]    Preferably, the scatter collimator is made of a ray absorbing
   material.
           [0018]    Preferably, the scatter collimator comprises multiple columns of
   parallel coaxial conical surfaces made of a ray absorbing material.
25         [0019]    Preferably, the scatter collimator comprises multiple parallel
   slices.
           [0020]    Preferably, the detector is a CdZnTe (CZT) detector or a High
   Purity Ge (HPGe) detector.
           [0021]    According to another aspect of the present disclosure, an
30 inspection system is provided, comprising: a bearing member configured to bear
   inspected objects to move linearly; a first scanning stage comprising a
                                                -4-

                                                               Attorney Docket No. FP150038
   transmission imaging apparatus or a Computer Tomography (CT) imaging
   apparatus to implement transmission inspection or CT inspection on the
   inspected objects; a processing apparatus configured to receive a signal
   generated by the first scanning stage and determine at least one region of
 5 interest in the inspected objects based on the signal; a second scanning stage
   arranged a predetermined distance from the first scanning stage along a
   movement direction of the objects, the second scanning stage comprising: a
   distributed ray source comprising multiple source points to generate rays; a light
   source collimator arranged at a ray beam output end of the distributed ray
10 source, and configured to converge the rays generated by the distributed ray
   source along fan-shaped radial lines to form an inverted fan-shaped ray beam; a
   scatter collimator configured to only allow rays scattered at one or more
   particular scattering angles which are generated by the rays from the light
   source collimator interacting with the inspected objects to pass; and detectors
15 arranged on the downstream of the scatter collimator, each detector comprising
   multiple detection units which have an energy resolution capability and are
   substantially arranged in a cylindrical surface to receive the scattered rays
   passing through the scatter collimator; wherein the processing apparatus is
   configured to instruct the second scanning stage to inspect the at least one
20 region of interest and calculate energy spectrum information of the scattered
   rays from the inspected objects based on the signal output by the detectors.
           [0022]   According to a further aspect of the present disclosure, an
   inspection method is provided, comprising: generating, by a distributed ray
   source comprising multiple source points, rays; converging the rays generated
25 by the distributed ray source along fan-shaped radial lines to form an inverted
   fan-shaped ray beam; collimating, by a scatter collimator arranged on a front
   end of detectors, the rays to only allow rays scattered at one or more particular
   scattering angles which are generated by the rays interacting with inspected
   objects to pass; receiving, by detectors, the scattered rays passing through the
30 scatter collimator, each detector having an energy resolution capability and is in
   a cylindrical surface shape; and calculating energy spectrum information of the
   scattered rays from the inspected objects based on a signal output by the
   detectors.
                                              -5-

                                                                      Attorney Docket No. FP150038
             [0023]    Preferably, the method further comprises steps of: calculating a
     lattice constant based on peak position information included in the energy
     spectrum information of the scattered rays, and judging whether the inspected
     objects include explosives or dangerous objects by comparing the calculated
 5   lattice constant with a predetermined value.
             [0024]    Preferably, the method further comprises steps of: controlling a
     particular source point in the distributed ray source to generate a ray according
     to input position information of an region of interest in the inspected objects to
     inspect the region of interest.
10           [0025]    With the above technical solutions, corresponding parts of
     objects are illuminated by controlling several particular light source points in a
     distributed light source to emit rays, so as to implement targeted detection. In
     addition, due to the use of a cylindrical detector, signals of detection units in
     some positions may be obtained, and therefore a three-dimensional positioning
15   capability is optimized, and intensity of signals is significantly enhanced.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             [0026]    The    following    accompanying      drawings       facilitate     better
     understanding the description of different embodiments of the present disclosure
     below. These accompanying drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale, and
     schematically illustrate primary features of some embodiments of the present
20   disclosure. These accompanying drawings and implementations provide some
     embodiments of the present disclosure in a non-limiting and non-exhaustive
     manner. For conciseness, the same reference signs are used for the same or
     similar components or structures having the same functions in different
     accompanying drawings.
25           [0027]    Fig. 1 is a structural diagram of an inspection device according
     to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
             [0028]    Fig. 2 is a diagram of a light source distribution and a detection
     region in an inspection device according to another embodiment of the present
     disclosure;
                                                   -6-

                                                                      Attorney Docket No. FP150038
             [0029]   Fig. 3 is a structural diagram illustrating an inspection device
     detecting rays scattered at a fixed angle according to an embodiment of the
     present disclosure;
             [0030]   Fig. 4 illustrates a structural diagram of a scatter collimator
 5   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
             [0031]   Fig. 5 illustrates a structural diagram of a scatter collimator
     according to another embodiment of the present disclosure;
             [0032]   Fig. 6 illustrates a side view of an inspection device according to
     an embodiment of the present disclosure;
10           [0033]   Fig. 7 illustrates a side view of an inspection device according to
     another embodiment of the present disclosure;
             [0034]   Fig. 8 illustrates a side view of an inspection device according to
     a further embodiment of the present disclosure;
             [0035]   Fig. 9 illustrates a structural diagram of a light source in an
15   inspection device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
             [0036]   Fig. 10 illustrates a structural diagram of a light source in an
     inspection device according to another embodiment of the present disclosure;
     and
             [0037]   Fig. 11 illustrates a distribution region of scattering information of
20   a rectangular section (actual detection region) of objects on a cylindrical detector.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
             [0038]   Some embodiments of the present disclosure will be described
     in detail below. In the following description, some specific details, for example,
     specific structures and specific parameters of components in the embodiments,
     are used to provide better understanding of the embodiments of the present
25   disclosure. Those skilled in the art may understand that even if some details are
     omitted or other methods, elements, materials or the like are incorporated, the
     embodiments of the present disclosure may also be implemented.
             [0039]   Fig. 1 illustrates a structural diagram of an inspection device
     according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown in Fig. 1, the
                                                   -7-

                                                                   Attorney Docket No. FP150038
   illustrated inspection device inspects inspected objects 130, and includes a
   distributed light source 110, a light source collimator 120 in front of the
   distributed light source 110, a scatter collimator 140, and a detector 150. As
   shown, the light source collimator 120 converges X-rays to an origin of a
 5 coordinate system along a radial direction of a fan-shaped beam. The scatter
   collimator 140 is arranged above an XOY plane. The detector is cylindrical
   detector with an axis of Y axis, and includes multiple detection units arranged in
   a cylindrical surface.
            [0040]   According to some embodiments, rays passing through the light
10 source collimator 120 is in a fan shape (with a field angle Apfrom a direction
   perpendicular to an illumination plane), and the plane includes a rectangular
   section of the inspected objects 130 in the XOZ plane. When the inspected
   objects 130 move on a transport belt (for example, along Y axis), the inspected
   objects 130 are scanned. When the rays encounter the inspected objects 130,
15 the rays are scattered. The scatter collimator 140 in the XOY plane operates to
   allow only rays scattered at a predetermined angle to be incident on the detector
   150. Energy spectrum information of the scattered rays from the inspected
   objects are calculated by a control and processing apparatus 160 such as a
   computer or the like connected to the distributed light source 110 and the
20 detector 150 based on a signal output by the detector 150.
            [0041]   According to some embodiments, the scatter collimator 140 is
   comprised of two parts. The first part includes multiple (two or three) coaxial
   cylindrical surfaces made of an X-ray absorbing material. In the cylindrical
   surfaces, circular slots are arranged at predetermined range intervals, to allow
25 rays in a conical surface at a certain angle to pass through. The second part
   includes a layer made of an X-ray absorbing material in the XOY plane, which
   has a linear slot arranged on a certain segment of the Y axis. The combination of
   the two parts determines an angle at which rays are incident on the detector,
   and a width of the slots and a range interval between the slots are decided
30 according to the requirements for an angle resolution and a spatial resolution of
   the system.
            [0042]   Fig. 2 is a diagram of a light source distribution and a detection
   region in an inspection device according to another embodiment of the present
                                                -8-

                                                                    Attorney Docket No. FP150038
   disclosure. The inspection device according to the present embodiment uses a
   distributed light source 210 to obtain an inverted fan-shaped beam which is
   converged to an origin under the control of a light source collimator 220. In some
   embodiments, there are multiple light source distributions. In the first light source
 5 distribution, the light source points are distributed over an arc 205 with a radius
   of R and with the origin as a center, and the light source collimator is distributed
   in a radial direction in front of the light source points. In the second light source
   distribution, the light sources are distributed over a linear segment, shown as a
   bold black line illustrated in Fig. 2. The light source points 210 are distributed
10 over a linear segment, and the light source collimator 220 is arranged on a beam
   output path of the source points. The collimated ray beam is converged along
   the radial direction of the fan, is transmitted through inspected objects 230
   between an inspection region outer circle 260 and an inspection region inner
   circle 270, and is scattered (diffracted). The control and processing apparatus
15 160 controls particular source points in the distributed ray source 210 to
   generate rays according to input position information of a region of interest in the
   inspected objects, so as to inspect the region of interest. For example, as shown
   in Fig. 2, particular source points in the distributed light source 210 are
   controlled to emit a beam, so that particular portions (Region Of Interest (ROI))
20 of the inspected objects 130 may be inspected. The detection region is a part of
   a ring region enclosed by an arc of the detection region outer circle 260, an arc
   of the detection region inner circle 270, and rays emitted from two ends of the
   light source to the origin, as shown in Fig. 2. The inspected objects 280 may be
   inscribed with the ring region, and move along the transport belt 290 in a
25 direction perpendicular to the paper plane. It is assumed that the inspected
   objects are in a cubic shape, and have a width of / and a height of h in Fig. 2. In
   this case, a field angle of the light source with respect to the origin is:
                                      a=2arctan /
                                                  2R,
           [0043]    A length of the arc-shaped light source distribution is:
30                                  s S =2R arctan /
                                                     2R
           [0044]    A length of the straight line-shaped light source distribution is:
                                                 -9-

                                                                 Attorney Docket No. FP150038
                               s  L = 2R sin arc tan      .
                                                     2R,
                                                       1
           [0045]   Wherein, R is a radius of the arc-shaped light source, and R is
   a distance between a bottom surface of the objects and the origin of the
   coordinates.
 5         [0046]   In general, multiple light source points may be distributed within
   this length of segment (at certain angle intervals), and individually emit a beam
   under the control of a control system. Alternatively, several adjacent light source
   points form a group to individually emit a beam as a group. The region 280 in Fig.
   2 is a ROI, and may be a suspicious material region which is marked by a CT
10 system or a transmission inspection system in a former stage.
           [0047]   Fig. 3 is a structural diagram illustrating an inspection device
   detecting rays scattered at a fixed angle according to an embodiment of the
   present disclosure. As shown in Fig. 3, in an illumination plane of an inverted
   fan-shaped beam generated by the distributed light source 210 through the light
15 source collimator 220, on arcs with a convergence point (an origin of the
   coordinates) as a center and with different radiuses, rays which are scattered at
   a certain angle relative to an incident ray (radius) may be converged to a point
   on the Y axis. These rays are distributed in a conical surface with a vertex on the
   Y axis and a half cone angle of "'- 0 , wherein 0 is a scattering angle. After
                                        2
20 scattered rays in conical surfaces are converged to different points on the Y axis,
   the scattered rays continue to diverge. In this case, the scattered rays are still
   distributed in a conical surface with the same vertex, the same cone angle, and
   opposite opening direction, as shown in Fig. 3, to form a funnel-shaped
   geometry. A particular scatter collimator is arranged in the XOY plane to operate
25 on the scattered rays, so that only the scattered rays which satisfy the above
   described condition may be transmitted to the detector along the funnel-shaped
   conical surface.
           [0048]   As shown in Fig. 3, in the illumination plane (XOZ plane), an arc
   260 with the origin as a center and with a large radius corresponds to a cone
30 with a vertex having a large Y coordinate, and the scattered rays diverge
   through the convergence vertex and are projected to an arc on the bottom of the
                                               -10-

                                                                  Attorney Docket No. FP150038
   detector 250. In the illumination plane, an arc 270 with the origin as a center and
   with a small radius corresponds to a cone with a vertex closer to the origin of the
   coordinate system, and the scattered rays diverge through the convergence
   point and are projected to an arc on the top of the detector 250. Thus, scattered
 5 rays from different positions in the illumination plane are projected to different
   detection units of the cylindrical detector 250. In cooperation with uniform motion
   of the objects along the Y axis, the inspection device has a three-dimensional
   positioning capability for the inspected objects, and may measure multiple ROIs
   in the detection region at the same time.
10          [0049]  An area of the detector according to the embodiments of the
   present disclosure is much smaller than that in a case of parallel beams in the
   related art, which reduces the required amount of detectors. This is because the
   rays have a certain convergence performance, and therefore the size of the
   detector may be adjusted according to the requirements for the spatial resolution
15 of the system.
            [0050]  The advantage of the inspection device according to the
   embodiments of the present disclosure is that the convergence feature of the
   inverted fan-shaped light is utilized, and a funnel-shaped detection structure is
   skillfully adopted. This structure may control the required size of the detector
20 according to the requirements for the spatial resolution of the system. In the
   design of a system having a three-dimensional positioning capability, the device
   according to the present embodiment may provide a high efficient and high
   insensitive data collection measure while reducing the required area of the
   detector.
25          [0051]   In some embodiments, the scattered rays are distributed in a
   series of coaxial conical surfaces. In some embodiments, the scatter collimator
   may be designed as a series of parallel coaxial conical surfaces made of an X
   ray absorbing material. Thus, an angle of the scattered light may be well defined,
   so that the scattered light at a required particular angle may be more accurately
30 received. However, there are higher requirements on the collimator.
            [0052]   In other embodiments, some parallel slices may be used to
   operate on the scattered light. However, as the scattered light is actually
                                               -11-

                                                                  Attorney Docket No. FP150038
   distributed in conical surfaces with a certain radian, the parallel plate collimators
   with slots may bring a certain offset in the angle.
           [0053]   In the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 4, another construction of a
   scatter collimator is illustrated. As shown in Fig. 4, the scatter collimator is
 5 comprised of two parts. The first part is two coaxial embedded semi-cylindrical
   surfaces 420 and 430 with an axis of Y axis (for example, the semi-cylindrical
   surfaces are only above the XOY plane), and the second part is a plate arranged
   in the XOY plane, which is related to the funnel-shaped geometrical model used
   in the design. As when the X-rays are transmitted through objects, some rays
10 scattered at an angle 0 are converged to the Y axis along different conical
   surfaces, and are intersected with the cylindrical collimator to form many arcs
   distributed on the cylindrical surfaces. According to the geometry and the
   requirements for an angle resolution of the system, a series of slots are
   arranged in corresponding positions of two cylindrical surfaces, so that scattered
15 rays which are incident on the conical surfaces at a certain angle may be
   transmitted through the slots. A plate collimator 410 arranged in the XOY plane
   below the cylindrical collimator has a linear slot 405 arranged on the Y axis,
   which enables scattered rays which are converged on the Y axis to be
   transmitted and illuminated on corresponding parts of the detector. With the
20 design of the scatter collimator illustrated in Fig. 4, it may be ensured that rays
   scattered at a fixed angle may be detected by the detector in accordance with a
   funnel-shaped geometry illustrated in Fig. 3. In some embodiments, a detector
   (such as a CdZnTe (CZT) detector or a High-Purity Ge (HPGe) detector) having
   an energy resolution capability measures X-rays scattered at a fixed angle from
25 different ROls, and may obtain a coherent scattering image (or diffraction pattern)
   of corresponding materials in terms of energy distribution. Lattice constant
   information of the materials may be obtained by analyzing peak positions of the
   spectrum. In a processing apparatus, the categories of the materials may be
   recognized by comparing the lattice constant information with reference spectral
30 lines of various materials (such as explosives) in a database.
           [0054]   Fig. 5 is a structural diagram of a scatter collimator according to
   another embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown in Fig. 5, the scatter
   collimator is comprised of two parts. A structure above the XOY plane comprises
                                                -12-

                                                                   Attorney Docket No. FP150038
   embedded spherical surfaces (with a center on the Y axis which is perpendicular
   to the paper plane). Vertexes of conical surfaces on which the rays scattered at
   a fixed angle are distributed are located on the same diameter (Y axis) of a
   virtual sphere. Thus, intersection lines between the conical surfaces and the
 5 spheres are arcs on the spheres. With the embedded structure, multiple slots
   525 define accurate incident direction of the scattered rays. A plate collimator
   arranged in the XOY plane below the spherical collimator 520 has a linear slot
   on the Y axis. This further operates to enable only the scattered rays which are
   converged on the Y axis to be transmitted and illuminated on the corresponding
10 parts of the detector.
           [0055]   The scatter collimator according to the embodiments of the
   present disclosure is comprised of two parts, which commonly operate to enable
   only the scattered rays which are distributed in conical surfaces with particular
   vertexes to be incident on the detector. With the funnel-shaped geometry, the
15 detector is arranged in a position below the convergence point of the light, i.e., a
   lower part of the funnel (as shown in Fig. 3). In theory, a more accurate design
   of the scatter collimator may be used to reduce the angle error of the system. If
   the scatter collimator is arranged before the convergence point of the light, the
   collimator with slots cannot be used to operate on the scattered light, and when
20 a two-dimensional detector is used, "crosstalk" in the X-axis direction may occur,
   which results in a large error.
           [0056]   Fig. 6 illustrates a side view of an inspection device according to
   an embodiment of the present disclosure. The device according to the
   embodiments of the present disclosure is based on the coherent X-ray scattering
25 technology, and is used as a detection apparatus for detecting explosives in a
   next stage, and may be connected in series with a CT detection system in a
   former stage. The detection apparatus in the latter stage obtains position
   information of the suspicious materials in the inspected objects 630 from the CT
   detection apparatus. Fig. 6 illustrates relative positions of various parts of the
30 whole system. A ray machine 610 is arranged on the top of the system in a
   direction perpendicular to the paper plane, and the inspected objects 630 move
   at a constant speed horizontally to the right when the inspected objects 630 are
   driven by a transport belt 660. The scattered rays are projected to the detector
                                                -13-

                                                                    Attorney Docket No. FP150038
   650 via a scatter collimator 640 below the transport belt. In the whole process,
   beam emission of the distributed ray machine and information recording and
   processing of the detector for corresponding parts are controlled by a Personal
   Computer (PC) or another processing system. The detectors 650 and the ray
 5 machine 610 need not to move mechanically, and the transport belt 660 needs
   not to be stopped, which improve the efficiency of detection of the whole system.
           [0057]    Fig. 7 illustrates a side view of an inspection device according to
   another embodiment of the present disclosure. The structure in Fig. 7 differs
   from the structure in Fig. 6 in that the system has a scatter collimator 740 and
10 has a detector 751 and a detector 752 respectively for different scattering angles
   on two sides of the illumination plane. A ray machine 710 is arranged on the top
   of the system in a direction perpendicular to the paper plane, and the inspected
   objects 730 move at a constant speed horizontally to the right when the
   inspected objects 730 are driven by a transport belt 760. The scattered rays are
15 projected to the detectors 751 and 752 via the scatter collimator 740 below the
   transport belt. Thus, information of rays scattered at two fixed angles may be
   measured at the same time. The consideration of this design is that according to
   the equation (1), the energy E of the X-rays is generally distributed in a range of
    20-100keV, and a lattice constant is on the order of 10m    10 n, and thus, a typical
20 scattering angle is small, and the above equation may be approximated as:
                              E6hc                     (2)
                                     d
           [0058]    wherein n is equal to 1. According to the equation (2), it can be
   seen that when coherent scattering measurement is implemented on particular
   objects, if an angle 0 increases, a corresponding peak position of the obtained
25 energy spectrum shifts to the left (i.e., decreases), that is, the energy of the X
   ray corresponding to the characteristic peak decreases; and when a decreases,
   the peak of the spectrum shifts to the right. For a detector, the energy resolution
   is high for a high energy part, but a small angle 0 corresponds to the high energy
   part at this time, and therefore, a corresponding angle resolution AO of the
                                                                                    0
30 system degrades. According to the designs and experiments of systems,
   coherent X-ray scattering system is more sensitive to the angle resolution.
   Therefore, when measurement is implemented at a small angle, the whole
                                                 -14-

                                                                    Attorney Docket No. FP150038
   resolution will degrade, and the quality of the obtained spectral lines will also
   decrease. However, there is a case needed to be considered, i.e., in luggage,
   when there is a strong X-ray absorbing material in the path of scattered light, or
   the objects are thick, a low energy part of the polychromatic X-ray will be
 5 strongly absorbed, and ray hardening may influence the spectral lines. In this
   case, when measurement is implemented at a large angle 0, the hardening may
   result in serious influences. Thus, in different luggage cases, the results given at
   different angles may be different, and there is a relatively suitable angle.
   Therefore, a structure for implementing measurement at two angles at the same
10 time is designed as shown in Fig. 7, wherein 61 <02 (for example, 01 z 3', and
    02  5' ). As a result, it may be judged which angle is relatively suitable for
   measurement according to the density of the material and position information
   obtained by the CT system in the former stage or spectral lines for two angles
   are jointed, which may improve the signal to noise ratio, enhance the accuracy
15 of judgment, and reduce the error rate.
           [0059]    Fig. 8 illustrates a side view of an inspection device according to
   a further embodiment of the present disclosure. In this mode, a system is
   allowed to measure energy spectrum curves of X scattered rays at four angles at
   the same time, to obtain four spectrograms. These four spectrograms may be
20 jointed (to obtain angle-energy joint distributions at four angles) so as to improve
   the signal to noise ratio of the data to be processed. The structure in Fig. 8
   differs from the structure in Fig. 6 in that the system has a scatter collimator 840,
   and has a group of detectors 851 and 852 and a group of detectors 853 and 854
   respectively for different scattering angles on two sides of the illumination plane.
25 A ray machine 810 is arranged on the top of the system in a direction
   perpendicular to the paper plane, and the inspected objects 830 move at a
   constant speed horizontally to the right when the inspected objects 830 are
   driven by a transport belt 860. The scattered rays are projected to the detectors
   851 and 852 and the detectors 853 and 854 via the scatter collimator 840 below
30 the transport belt. In this way, information of rays scattered at two fixed angles
   may be measured at the same time. As shown in Fig. 8, illumination ranges of
   two groups of scattered rays on the collimator are separated on either side of the
   illumination plane, to avoid interference to each other. Rays at two angles are
                                                 -15-

                                                                   Attorney Docket No. FP150038
   illuminated on two cylindrical detectors. After four energy spectrum curves are
   obtained, an energy spectrum curve with the best effects may firstly be selected
   for judgment, or the four curves for different angles may be jointed to improve
   the signal to noise ratio of the curves.
 5         [0060]     Figs. 9 and 10 illustrate more effective structural diagrams, and
   the primary purpose is to reduce the size of the whole system device. That is,
   the defect that the size of the whole system is large due to a large light source
   distribution range in an arc or a linear segment is improved.
           [0061]     Fig. 9 illustrates a U-shaped (or inverted U-shaped) design. The
10 design is characterized in that the system is symmetric from left to right, and
   there is no difference in illuminated rays for the detected cubic objects (with a
   rectangular section). In the mode illustrated in Fig. 9, an inverted U-shaped
   distributed light source 910 and a light source collimator 930 are arranged in a
   detection region between a distributed light source simulation circular orbit
15 radius/detection region outer circle radius 960 and a detection region inner circle
   radius 970. The U-shaped design enables decrease in a size of the distributed
   light source in a direction perpendicular to a transportation direction of the
   transport belt, and the light source nearly adjoins the rectangular detection
   region. In addition, this design makes significant decrease in the detection
20 region inner circle radius become possible, and at the same time, reduces the
   height of the whole system.
           [0062]     In the embodiment, as the light source is in a distributed mode,
   light source points are arranged at certain angle intervals. Therefore, there is a
   problem about the sampling interval. In order to maintain the angle resolution, a
25 field angle Ar of a ray emitted by each light source point should be small
   enough, as shown in Fig. 9. An analysis on a change in the angle resolution due
   to the field angle of each ray will be described below. Assuming that after each
   ray passes through the light source collimator, each ray has a field angle of
    Ay , 0.4 0 , an edge ray 1-1 of ray 1 intersects with ray 2 at a point A, and these
30 rays may be scattered from the objects at point A and transmitted to a detector
   along the same trajectory. In this case, the corresponding scattering angles are
   different. When the scatter collimator defines a scattering angle of 30, an error in
                                                 -16-

                                                                       Attorney Docket No. FP150038
   the angle due to Ay, is about AO         <5.72%      without considering an error in the
                                         0
   angle due to the actual scatter collimator. Assuming that the scatter collimator
   may accurately define the incident angle for the detector, if the angle defined by
   the scatter collimator is changed to 2.910, due to the error resulting from Ay ,
 5 the possible scattering angle range of the scattered rays incident on the detector
   is 2.910~3.09o , and an average angle is still 30 , with a maximal error of
    AO <3.00%.     However, in a case that the angle resolution is ensured, the rays
      0
   cannot cover the whole section of the objects. In order to avoid or reduce the
   missing rate due to measurement in a non-complete-cover manner, it needs to
10 ensure that an interval between two rays is small enough. This interval needs to
   be set according to a size range of objects to be actually inspected. In the
   present embodiment, it is proposed that an interval between two adjacent rays is
   no more than 12mm on an arc of the detection region outer circle. In a case of Fig.
   9 and the above parameters, if light source points are arranged at 0.60 intervals,
15 a total of 227 light source points are needed. Then, a maximal interval between
   the rays is Ax=10.79mm. As the rays are convergent, and the actual detection
   region is rectangular and is inside the arc of the outer circle, in the detection
   region, this standard may be satisfied.
            [0063]    In addition, as shown in Fig. 3, the detector records information
20 of a part of ring region in the detection plane, but the actual monitored region is
   merely a rectangle inscribed with the ring region. Therefore, on the cylindrical
   detector as described above, there are some regions without useful information,
   for example, regions 1, 11,111,IV or the like as illustrated in Fig. 11, and a useful
   region is merely a part of the rectangular region which is projected through the
25 funnel-shaped conical surface on the cylindrical detector, for example, region V
   illustrated in Fig. 11 (in a symmetric structure condition).
            [0064]    Fig. 10 illustrates an L-shaped design mode. The design of the
   system is non-symmetrical, but the basic principle and the measurement manner
   are the same. In the mode illustrated in Fig. 10, an inverted L-shaped distributed
30 light source 1010 and a light source collimator 1030 are arranged in a detection
   region     between      a   distributed   light     source    simulation     circular      orbit
   radius/detection region outer circle radius 1060 and a detection region inner
                                                   -17-

                                                                 Attorney Docket No. FP150038
   circle radius 1070. In the present embodiment, a detector is arranged in a non
   symmetric form in a position which is below and to the right of the objects. The
   distribution of the scattered rays from the rectangular region on the detector is
   shown as a region 1120 illustrated in a block of Fig. 11 (an L-shaped structure).
 5         [0065]    Compared with the design in Fig. 9, in the design in Fig. 10, the
   required size of the detector is comparable, i.e., the size of the design in Fig. 9
   and the size of the design in Fig.10 are much smaller than that in a parallel
   beam mode. Due to the use of the distributed light source, a maximal interval
   between the sampling points (a maximal interval between rays) may be smaller
10 than 12mm. Due to the increase in R2 , an error in the angle due to Ar increases.
   Assuming that Ar=0.40, a scattering angle defined by the scatter collimator is
    2.850, and an average scattering angle of the scattered rays is 30, the error in
   the angle is about AO <5.11%, which is slightly poorer than that in the U-shaped
                        0
   design. Therefore, there are higher requirements for the light source collimator,
15 and there may be a need to reduce Ay . However, Ay is not suitable to be too
   small; otherwise, the counting rate may be significantly reduced. In terms of the
   shape, there is one less arm in the L shape than in the U shape, and therefore,
   the non-symmetrical design in Fig. 9 needs a reduced number of light source
   points. No matter whether to use the U-shape distribution or the L-shape
20 distribution, the designs in the two modes may reduce the size of the whole
   system.
           [0066]    The embodiments of the present disclosure propose to use a
   two-dimensional     cylindrical detector,  so that the system          may measure
   information of various points in a section plane of materials at the same time and
25 optimize the three-dimensional positioning capability. Multiple light sources may
   illuminate at the same time, so as to significantly enhance the intensity of rays in
   the detection plane. In this way, the system may have a better signal-to-noise
   ratio, and further improve the efficiency of detection. Compared with the method
   using parallel beams, the required size of the detector in the embodiments of the
30 present disclosure is smaller. Meanwhile, in another system structure of the
   design, energy distribution curves of rays scattered at two different angles may
   also be measured at the same time. Therefore, the system may be used
                                              -18-

                                                                  Attorney Docket No. FP150038
   according to practical conditions or by jointing the information obtained for two
   angles to improve the material resolution capability of the system.
           [0067]   Other embodiments        of the present disclosure disclose a
   coherent X-ray scattering system using a distributed light source for an inverted
 5 fan-shaped beam, which uses a detector having an energy resolution capability
   to measure an energy distribution of X-rays scattered at a fixed angle to obtain a
   lattice constant of the materials, thereby recognizing the categories of the
   materials.
           [0068]   The distributed light source is distributed in an arc or a straight
10 line. The rays pass through the objects along a radial direction and are
   converged to the origin of the coordinate system under the control of the light
   source collimator. Position information of suspicious materials from the CT in a
   former stage is received by a light source processing system, which specifically
   controls several light source points in corresponding positions to emit beams
15 with purpose, to illuminate corresponding parts for targeted detection.
           [0069]   The detector has a cylindrical structure, and is used in
   cooperation with the collimator which is designed accurately. Scattered rays
   from different positions in the detection plane are illuminated on different
   positions of the detector, and position information of suspicious materials from
20 the CT in the former stage is received by a data acquisition system, which
   specifically acquires signals of detection units in some positions.
           [0070]   The collimator of the whole system is divided into two parts, i.e.,
   a light source collimator and a scatter collimator (or referred to as detector
   collimator). The purpose of the light source collimator is to define directions of
25 rays emitted from light source points in different positions, so that the rays
   passing through the collimator are in an inverted fan-shaped beam mode, and
   are transmitted through the detection region and converged to the origin of the
   coordinate system. The scatter collimator controls the angles of the scattered
   rays which are incident on the surface of the detector, to only allow rays which
30 are scattered at a fixed angle   e and  in a certain conical surface to pass and be
   recorded by the detector.
                                               -19-

                                                                  Attorney Docket No. FP150038
           [0071]   In the whole detection process, the objects are continuously
   transported through the detection region when the objects are driven by the
   transport belt. The X light source and the detector need not to be moved. After
   the energy spectrum curves of the scattered rays of the suspicious materials are
 5 obtained, the lattice constant     di may be calculated according to the peak
   positions Ei and other fixed parameters, and the curves are compared with
   spectral lines of various materials in the system data, so as to recognize and
   finally determine the categories of the materials, and thus decide whether the
   materials are explosives.
10         [0072]   In some embodiments, in combination with the inverted fan
   shaped beam design solution and the distributed light source design, rays
   emitted by the light source have a convergence trend, which may largely reduce
   the area of the detector as compared with the parallel beam mode. In some
   embodiments, the size of the detector in the inspection device is merely about
15 15% of the required area of the detector in the parallel beam mode, which
   reduces the system cost.
           [0073]   In addition, in some embodiments, a detector collimator and a
   two-dimensional detector which are particularly designed are used, so that the
   detector and the light source need not to be moved in the process of detecting
20 the luggage in the present disclosure, which reduces the mechanical complexity
   of the system, and increases the speed, stability, and accuracy of the inspection
   in the system. Meanwhile, the inspection method according to the present
   disclosure may be used to measure multiple ROIs at the same time, and
   individually measure an object in any position of a luggage. Compared with the
25 inverted fan-shaped mode in the related art, multiple light sources may emit rays
   at the same time, to significantly enhance intensity of rays in the detection plane.
   In this way, the system has better signal-to-noise ratio and efficiency of detection.
           [0074]   In other embodiments, a U-shaped or L-shaped light source
   distribution manner is used to reduce the size of the whole system.
30         [0075]   Therefore, the above description and embodiments of the
   present disclosure are merely used to describe the inspection device, inspection
   method, and inspection system according to the embodiments of the present
                                              -20-

                                                                Attorney Docket No. FP150038
  disclosure by means of illustrative examples, and are not intended to limit the
  scope of the present disclosure. Variations and amendments made to the
  embodiments of the present disclosure are possible. Other feasible alternative
  embodiments and equivalent variations of elements in the embodiments are
5 obvious to an ordinary skilled in the art. Other variations and amendments made
  to the embodiments of the present disclosure do not go beyond the spirit and
  protection scope of the present disclosure.
                                              -21-

                                                                  Attorney Docket No. FP150038
CLAIMS
I/We claim:
1.     An inspection device, comprising:
       a distributed ray source comprising multiple source points, wherein the
various source points can emit beams individually or several adjacent light source
points form a group to individually emit a beam as a group;
       a light source collimator arranged at a ray beam output end of the distributed
ray source, and configured to converge the rays generated by the distributed ray
source into a convergence point along fan-shaped radial lines to form an inverted
fan-shaped ray beam;
       a scatter collimator configured to only allow rays scattered at one or more
particular scattering angles which are generated by the rays from the light source
collimator interacting with inspected objects to pass;
       at least one detector arranged on the downstream of the convergence point,
each detector comprising multiple detection units which have an energy resolution
capability and are substantially arranged in a cylindrical surface to receive the
scattered rays passing through the scatter collimator; and
       a processing apparatus configured to calculate energy spectrum information
of the scattered rays from the inspected objects based on a signal output by the
detectors.
2.     The inspection device according to claim 1, wherein the processing
apparatus is further configured to calculate a lattice constant based on peak
position information included in the energy spectrum information of the scattered
rays, and judge whether the inspected objects include explosives or dangerous
objects by comparing the calculated lattice constant with a predetermined value.
3.     The inspection device according to claim 1, further comprising a control
apparatus configured to control a particular source point in the distributed ray
source to generate a ray according to input position information of an region of
interest in the inspected objects to inspect the region of interest.
4.     The inspection device according to claim 1, wherein the multiple source
points of the distributed ray source are distributed in an arc shape, a straight line
shape, a U shape, an inverted U shape, an L shape, or an inverted L shape.
5.     The inspection device according to claim 1, wherein the scatter collimator
comprises a bottom surface and multiple embedded cylindrical surfaces on the
                                               -22-

                                                               Attorney Docket No. FP150038
bottom surface, circular slots are arranged at predetermined range intervals in the
multiple embedded cylindrical surfaces, and a slot is arranged on the bottom
surface along an axial direction of the cylindrical surfaces.
6.     The inspection device according to claim 1, wherein the scatter collimator
comprises a bottom surface and multiple embedded spherical surfaces on the
bottom surface, circular slots are arranged at predetermined range intervals in the
multiple embedded spherical surfaces, and a slot is arranged on the bottom surface
along a radial direction of the bottom surface.
7.     The inspection device according to claim 1, wherein the scatter collimator is
made of a ray absorbing material.
8.     The inspection device according to claim 1, wherein the scatter collimator
comprises multiple columns of parallel coaxial conical surfaces made of a ray
absorbing material.
9.     The inspection device according to claim 1, wherein the scatter collimator
comprises multiple parallel slices.
10.    The inspection device according to claim 1, wherein the detector is a
CdZnTe (CZT) detector or a High-Purity Ge (HPGe) detector.
11.    An inspection system, comprising:
       a bearing member configured to bear inspected objects to move linearly;
       a first scanning stage comprising a transmission imaging apparatus or a
Computer     Tomography      (CT)  imaging   apparatus to implement transmission
inspection or CT inspection on the inspected objects;
       a processing apparatus configured to receive a signal generated by the first
scanning stage and determine at least one region of interest in the inspected
objects based on the signal;
       a second scanning stage arranged a predetermined distance from the first
scanning stage along a movement direction of the objects, the second scanning
stage comprising:
       a distributed ray source comprising multiple source points, wherein the
various source points can emit beams individually or several adjacent light source
points form a group to individually emit a beam as a group;
       a light source collimator arranged at a ray beam output end of the distributed
ray source, and configured to converge the rays generated by the distributed ray
                                              -23-

                                                                 Attorney Docket No. FP150038
source into a convergence point along fan-shaped radial lines to form an inverted
fan-shaped ray beam;
        a scatter collimator configured to only allow rays scattered at one or more
particular scattering angles which are generated by the rays from the light source
collimator interacting with the inspected objects to pass; and
        detectors arranged on the downstream of the convergence point, each
detector comprising multiple detection units which have an energy resolution
capability and are substantially arranged in a cylindrical surface to receive the
scattered rays passing through the scatter collimator;
        wherein the processing apparatus is configured to instruct the second
scanning stage to inspect the at least one region of interest and calculate energy
spectrum information of the scattered rays from the inspected objects based on the
signal output by the detectors.
12.     An inspection method, comprising:
        generating, by a distributed ray source comprising multiple source points,
wherein the various source points can emit beams individually or several adjacent
light source points form a group to individually emit a beam as a group;
        converging the rays generated by the distributed ray source into a
convergence point along fan-shaped radial lines to form an inverted fan-shaped ray
beam;
        collimating, by a scatter collimator arranged on a front end of detectors, the
rays to only allow rays scattered at one or more particular scattering angles which
are generated by the rays interacting with inspected objects to pass;
        receiving, by detectors, the scattered rays passing through the scatter
collimator, each detector having an energy resolution capability and is in a
cylindrical surface shape, wherein the detectors are arranged on the downstream
of the convergence point; and
        calculating energy spectrum information of the scattered rays from the
inspected objects based on a signal output by the detectors.
13.     The method according to claim 12, further comprising steps of:
        calculating a lattice constant based on peak position information included in
the energy spectrum information of the scattered rays, and judging whether the
inspected objects include explosives or dangerous objects by comparing the
calculated lattice constant with a predetermined value.
                                               -24-

                                                                Attorney Docket No. FP150038
14.    The method according to claim 12, further comprising steps of:
                  controlling a particular source point in the distributed ray source
to generate a ray according to input position information of an region of interest in
the inspected objects to inspect the region of interest.
                                             -25-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
