                                                    22
METHOD FOR OPERATING A HEARING AID
ABSTRACT
         The invention specifies a method (1) for operating a hearing aid (2) comprising at least a
first input transducer (10) and a second input transducer (12), wherein the first input transducer
(10) generates a first input signal (16) from a sound signal (14) from the surroundings and the
second input transducer (12) generates a second input signal (18) from the sound signal (14),
wherein a first direction (26) is assigned to a first signal source (22), wherein a first directional
signal (30) that is aligned in the first direction (26) is formed on the basis of the first input signal
(16) and the second input signal (18), and wherein at least signal components (34) of the first
directional signal (30) are examined for the presence of a used signal from a used signal source
(6) that is predetermined in view of its type.

                                                    1
                          METHOD FOR OPERATING A HEARING AID
[0001] The invention relates to a method for operating a hearing aid comprising at least a first
input transducer and a second input transducer, wherein the first input transducer generates a
first input signal from a sound signal from the surroundings and the second input transducer
generates a second input signal from the sound signal, and wherein a first directional signal that
is aligned in a first direction is formed on the basis of the first input signal and the second input
signal.
[0002] One of the core problems in the application of hearing aids lies in the handling of
conversation situations. This is firstly due to the circumstance that important information is
often conveyed to the user of a hearing aid during a personal conversation. Thus, if only for the
purposes of information transfer that is as reliable as possible, it is already important to attribute
particular significance to the intelligibility of speech for the user of a hearing aid. However, on
the other hand, speech intelligibility, in particular, often already is impaired by the fact that
typical conversation situations are superposed with a high component of surrounding and
interfering noises, as may be the case, for example, during a conversation with a plurality of
interlocutors who not only express themselves orderly in succession, or in the case of dialogue
in a closed room, in which further groups of people in turn contribute to an elevated noise level
through conversations (a so-called "cocktail party" hearing situation).
[0003] In order to improve the speech intelligibility of the signal from an interlocutor, modern
hearing aids often apply a directional microphone algorithm, by means of which a narrow
directional characteristic, e.g. a directional cone, is aligned in the direction of the interlocutor.
Such a directional cone as a filter over the input signals of the hearing aid leads to the speech
signal of the interlocutor being amplified while noises that originate from a different direction
are substantially suppressed.
[0004] Previous algorithms for improving the speech intelligibility, which mask background
noise by means of a directional characteristic, normally are insufficient for a hearing situation in
which the interlocutor of a user of a hearing aid moves relative to the user as the corresponding
directional characteristic would have to be adapted continuously to the changing position of the
interlocutor; however, precisely this leads to complications if the moving interlocutor is not the
only speaker in the vicinity of the user and an identification of the position of the interlocutor

                                                    2
consequently is made significantly more difficult on account of the presence of the other
speakers. Moreover, not only is the ascertainment of the position of the moving interlocutor of
high numerical complexity in this case, but the robustness of a speaker-specific suppression of
the background noise also becomes a significant problem for moving speakers on account of the
restricted available resources in a hearing aid, i.e. the position of the moving interlocutor is lost
in the case of an insufficiently robust algorithm and there can be no more satisfactory noise
suppression. What makes this even more difficult is that an improvement in the speech quality
of an interlocutor by means of a directional characteristic that masks background noises
becomes ever more important as the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the speech signal reduces.
However, particularly a low SNR leads to problems when capturing the position of a moving
interlocutor or when attempting to capture the moving interlocutor by means of a directional
characteristic.
[0005] However, said problems are not only restricted to the conversation contributions by an
interlocutor but, in general, may always occur for the user of a hearing aid when such a known
or identifiable sound source, known per se, should be tracked along a relative movement with
respect to the user, i.e., for example, a pet in a park or a motorized road user in traffic.
[0006] DE 10 2013 215 131 Al specifies, for a hearing aid, the formation of a directional signal
from at least two microphone signals, the capture of an acoustic signal to be used in the
directional signal and an evaluation of the acoustic signal to the extent of whether the latter is,
for example, speech, music, noise or the like.
[0007] Therefore, the invention is based on a desire to specify a method for a hearing aid, said
method allowing the localization of a predetermined used signal source in the presence of a
plurality of signal sources or significant background noise in a manner that is as simple and
resources-sparing as possible.
[0008] It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome, or at least ameliorate,
one or more disadvantages of existing arrangements.
[0009] According to the invention, the aforementioned object is achieved by a method for
operating a hearing aid comprising at least a first input transducer and a second input transducer,
wherein the first input transducer generates a first input signal from a sound signal from the

                                                     3
surroundings and the second input transducer generates a second input signal from the sound
signal, wherein a first direction is assigned to a first signal source, wherein a first directional
signal that is aligned in the first direction is formed on the basis of the first input signal and the
second input signal, and wherein at least signal components of the first directional signal are
examined for the presence of a used signal from a used signal source that is predetermined in
view of its type. Advantageous configurations and configurations which, in part, are inventive
on their own are disclosed in the dependent claims and in the following description.
[0010] Here, in general, an input transducer comprises an acousto-electric transducer which is
configured to generate an appropriate electric signal from a sound signal, i.e., for example, a
microphone. Here, a directional signal should be understood to mean a signal which has a
particularly high sensitivity to a reference sound from a reference sound source in a specific
angular range and which has a significantly reduced sensitivity in respect of the reference sound
when the reference sound source is arranged outside the given angular range. In particular, the
directional signal can have a maximum in its sensitivity in respect of the reference sound at a
given central angle, with the sensitivity in relation to the reference sound reducing with
increasing angular distance from the central angle.
[0011] A used signal source that is predetermined in view of its type comprises, in particular, a
used signal source which can be predetermined and/or identified on the basis of the spectral
properties of the signal components of the produced used signal, i.e., for example, a specific
speaker, whose speech signal can be distinguished in the hearing aid on the basis of its spectral
components and on the basis of the distribution of formats from the speech signals of other
possible speakers.
[0012] Here, examining at least the signal components of the first directional signal for the
presence of the used signal facilitates, firstly, an improvement in the signal-to-noise ratio over
the first directional signal. Here, the first directional signal can be formed by means of a suitably
aligned directional characteristic in such a way that substantially only signal components of the
first signal source are incorporated into the first directional signal and, correspondingly, sound
from other signal sources, whether these be from further used signal sources involved in the
hearing situation or from sources of noise, are substantially suppressed. As a result of this, it is
possible to substantially amplify the signal components corresponding to the first signal source

                                                     4
in relation to the background noise, without the spectral properties of the signal components
being adversely affected in the process.
[0013] Now, secondly, such an improvement in the signal-to-noise ratio by way of the first
directional signal facilitates a substantially more robust ascertainment of the used signal or an
improvement in the identification of the first signal source with the used signal source that is
predetermined in view of its type. This is because such an identification, in particular on the
basis of a comparison of the available spectral properties of the signal components in the first
directional signal with reference values which define the used signal source in view of its type
or which are predetermined by the used signal source, is more robust and less susceptible now to
variations in the background noise as a consequence of the significantly lower noise component
in the first directional signal since said background noise is largely masked for the ascertainment
of the presence of the used signal source. In particular, the first directional signal may have a
directional characteristic in this case, the direction of maximum sensitivity of which deviates
from the frontal direction of the user of the hearing aid such that the first signal source can
assume, in particular, any angular position in the front hemisphere of the user for the purposes
of carrying out the method.
[0014] Preferably, a position of the used signal source is ascertained on the basis of the first
input signal and the second input signal if the used signal is present in the first directional signal
and, if a change in the position of the used signal source is ascertained, the first directional
signal is aligned in the direction of the modified position of the used signal source. In particular,
this can be effectuated in such a way that the used signal source with the first signal source is
identified in the first directional signal if the used signal is present, and consequently the first
direction is assigned to the used signal source as a position. Determining a change in the signal
level of the first directional signal now renders it possible to deduce a change in the position or
the angular position of the used signal source, and so the first direction is newly determined.
This may be effectuated dynamically depending on profile of the signal level in the first
directional signal or periodically at predetermined time intervals. By way of the parameters
known to the hearing aid, this facilitates the tracking in space of a used signal source that is
known in view of its type and that moves relative to the user and, accordingly, the permanent
alignment on the used signal source of a directional signal for the purposes of improving the
signal quality and the signal-to-noise ratio.

                                                    5
[0015] Expediently, the position of the used signal source is continuously updated if the used
signal is present in the first directional signal. Preferably, the alignment of the first directional
signal moreover also is continuously updated in this case. In particular, this can facilitate an
update of the alignment of the first directional signal, which leads to an increased power uptake
of the hearing aid as a consequence of the high computational outlay, only being carried out for
the case where a used signal is present in the first directional signal, and so this allows battery
power to be saved.
[0016] According to the invention, spectral characteristics of the used signal source are
predetermined for the examination of at least the signal components of the first directional
signal for the presence of the used signal, wherein a probability value is ascertained for signal
components that are compatible with the spectral characteristics being contained in the first
directional signal and a presence of the used signal is deduced if a predetermined first threshold
is exceeded by the probability value. In particular, this can be effectuated by way of the log
likelihood ratio test (LLR) of a Gaussian mixture model (GMM), in which characteristics are
ascertained or approximated by way of the mel-frequency cepstrum coefficients (MFCC) or by
way of a GMM supervector support vector machine.
[0017] Since the used signal source is predetermined in view of its type, this means that, firstly,
spectral characteristics that are characteristic for the used signal source, in particular in view of a
distinction from other signal sources, can be used for examining the first directional signal.
Secondly, a probability value for the relevant signal components originating from the used
signal source now is ascertained on the basis of the real signal components of the first
directional signal by way of a suitable comparison method. Origination from the used signal
source can be excluded if the corresponding signal components are not compatible with the used
signal on account of their spectral components. In the case of increasing correspondence or
compatibility of the spectral parameters of the signal components of the first directional signal
and of the predetermined used signal, there is a corresponding increase in the probability value,
and so the assumption can be made above a predetermined threshold for the probability value
that the signal components in fact originate from the desired used signal source. Here, in
particular, the probability value may depend on the hearing situation or a noise level.
[0018] Expediently, the spectral characteristics in this case are stored in a database of the
hearing aid before the hearing aid is activated. Here, activation comprises both the first

                                                     6
activation and an activation after a relatively long operational pause that is connected with an
interim deactivation of the hearing aid. Here, in particular, storing may be effectuated within the
scope of setting the default for, and/or adapting, the hearing aid by a hearing aid acoustic
technician. To this end, the most common interlocutors of the user can be selected as default
used signal sources, the user supplying a number of sound samples for said interlocutors in each
case. In particular, the sound samples may have been recorded, in particular, by an external
apparatus such as a smartphone or by the hearing aid itself, which is preferably specifically
prompted to this end by means of an external apparatus such as, for example, a remote control or
a smartphone.
[0019] Expediently, a user of the hearing aid identifies the used signal of the used signal source
by a user input during the operation of said hearing aid and the spectral characteristics are
ascertained on the basis of the first directional signal and stored in a database. Here, the
identification may be effectuated during running operation of the hearing aid; the user input may
be effectuated by, in particular, a remote control or smartphone. This is particularly
advantageous since the characteristics of all possible relevant used signal sources are usually not
known when the default is set, and consequently the user readily can add new used signal
sources, which are currently relevant to them on account of the current hearing situation, to the
corresponding database.
[0020] Preferably, the signal of the first signal source is identified as used signal during the
operation of the hearing aid and the first signal source is predetermined as used signal source,
wherein the spectral characteristics of the used signal source are ascertained on the basis of the
first directional signal. In particular, the signal of the first signal source is identified as used
signal on the basis of an average of the signal level over time. This means that, for example, an
unchanging high, long duration or recurring signal level for the conversation contributions of an
interlocutor in a conversation situation is identified as a new, currently relevant used signal and
the spectral characteristics of the voice and speech of said interlocutor are ascertained
accordingly for subsequent comparisons and stored accordingly. This facilitates a complete
automatic capture of the spectral characteristics of a used signal source without the user in this
case having to direct particular attention to the capture itself.
[0021] Expediently, an output signal is formed on the basis of the first directional signal, said
output signal being converted into a sound signal by at least one output transducer of the hearing

                                                    7
aid. In general, an output transducer comprises an electro-acoustic transducer which is
configured to produce a corresponding sound signal from an electric signal, for example a
loudspeaker or a sound producer for bone conduction. Forming the output signal on the basis of
the first directional signal should be understood to mean, in particular, that the first directional
signal is used directly as input variable in the signal processing that is specific to the hearing aid,
wherein the output signal is present as a resultant signal of the signal processing that is specific
to the hearing aid. As a result, the temporal-spatial information, as included in the first
directional signal in respect of the signal source in particular, is incorporated into the sound
signal that is audible to the user of the hearing aid such that, as a consequence of modeling the
real movement of the signal source by means of the first directional signal, a particularly
realistic hearing sensation can be caused for the user.
[0022] In a further advantageous configuration, a specific speaker is predetermined as used
signal source and a human speech signal of the speaker is predetermined as used signal. The
method can be applied particularly advantageously, especially for the case of a speaker as used
signal source, since, firstly, a specific speech signal is identifiable on the basis of a multiplicity
of spectral parameters that are characteristic for the voice and for the speech and, secondly, an
interlocutor may move during a lively conversation situation, which can be compensated by the
tracking of the interlocutor, proposed here, by the first directional signal for the purposes of
improving the intelligibility of the speech signal.
[0023] Expediently, individual correction parameters are predetermined for the speech signal of
the specific speaker in this case, wherein the first directional signal and/or an intermediate signal
which is incorporated into the output signal is/are corrected on the basis of the individual
correction parameters if the speech signal of the specific speaker is present in the first
directional signal. What is advantageously exploited here is that, firstly, the specific speaker is
identifiable and localizable by the hearing aid by way of the proposed method on the basis of
spectral parameters that are characteristic for their voice and that, secondly, their speech signal
can be amplified in a targeted manner, for example by virtue of the corresponding frequencies
being able to be particularly amplified for less pronounced formats or the like.
[0024] Particularly preferably, the individual correction parameters for the specific speaker are
stored in a database of the hearing aid before the hearing aid is activated and/or said individual
correction parameters for the specific speaker are ascertained on the basis of the first directional

                                                    8
signal and a user input, and are stored in a database. Here, activation comprises both the first
activation and an activation after a relatively long operational pause that is connected with an
interim deactivation of the hearing aid. Here, in particular, the user input can be effectuated by
way of a remote control or a smartphone. Particularly when storing the data within the scope of
setting defaults prior to activation, corresponding correction parameters for the specific speaker
can be adapted particularly accurately in a manner matched to a possible hearing loss of the user
such that the storage space on the hearing aid required to this end can be optimized. Storing the
correction parameters following a user input is advantageous in that the user can effectuate the
storage independently and in any surroundings.
[0025] It was found to be advantageous if at least signal components of the first directional
signal are transferred to an external unit, wherein the signal components of the first directional
signal are examined in the external unit for the presence of the used signal of a used signal
source that is predetermined in view of its type, and wherein the result of the examination of the
first directional signal is transmitted to the hearing aid. This allows precisely the
computationally intensive steps, which are required for identifying or verifying the used signal
source by way of the comparison of the corresponding spectral parameters, to be carried out
outside of the hearing aid on a more powerful processor such that the processors of the hearing
aid only need to be designed for a conventional hearing aid operation, which also comprises the
formation of directional signals.
[0026] Advantageously, the first directional signal is transformed into the time-frequency
domain and/or individual time periods of the first directional signal are examined for a signal-to
noise ratio in the time domain and/or in the time-frequency domain, wherein only time periods
with a signal-to-noise ratio which lies above a predetermined second threshold are used for the
examination for the presence of the used signal. As a result, signal components which do not
have a sufficiently high signal quality for examining the first directional signal in any case are
neglected, as a result of which, overall, computational power can be saved.
[0027] In an advantageous configuration, the first direction for the assignment is ascertained on
the basis of the first input signal and the second input signal. Depending on the quality of the
signal source and the type of hearing situation, there can be an assignment of a spatial direction
to a signal source, for example also by way of a default setting, for example on the basis of the
assumption that a user of the hearing aid will usually align his direction of view with the

                                                    9
direction of one of the used signal sources, and so the frontal direction can be predetermined as
a first direction. However, this is not expedient for many hearing situations. Therefore, it is
advantageous to localize the first signal source on the basis of the first input signal and the
second input signal, which are available in any case. Here, in particular, the first direction can be
ascertained approximately, for example in the form of a scan over a plurality of angular ranges.
[0028] Expediently, a plurality of angle-dependent directional characteristics with a respective
fixed central angle and a given angular width are formed in this case on the basis of the first
input signal and the second input signal, wherein the signal components in the individual
directional characteristics are examined for the presence of the signal from the first signal
source, and wherein the corresponding central angle is assigned as first direction to a first signal
source ascertained in a specific directional characteristic. This permits a localization of the first
signal source that is particularly precise and robust against background noise since no time-of
flight or phase measurements, which are susceptible to interference, are used to this end, and the
first direction for the first signal source can be predetermined on the basis of the available
signals - of the first input signal and the second input signal - without further assumptions - e.g.
frontal positioning or the like - being required to this end, said further assumptions possibly not
corresponding to the real hearing situation.
[0029] Advantageously, an angular distance between two directional characteristics that are
adjacent in respect of their respective central angle corresponds to half the angular width in this
case. In particular, any two adjacent directional characteristics have the same angular width. In
the case where the individual directional characteristics are formed by directional cones, the
sensitivity of which is at a maximum in the direction of the central angle and decreases with
increasing angular distance from the central angle, this means, in particular, that an angle can be
specified for each individual directional characteristic, for which angle the sensitivity in respect
of a test signal has dropped by a certain factor in relation to the maximum value at the central
angle, for example by 6 dB or 10 dB. Such an angle is now assigned to the corresponding
directional characteristic as half an angular width and the central angle of the adjacent
directional characteristic is accordingly selected as twice the value of this angle. A
corresponding statement may apply for the case where in each case notch-shaped attenuations of
the sensitivity with a minimum at the central angle are selected as individual directional
characteristics, wherein an increase in the sensitivity over the minimum value at the central

                                                     10
angle is used for the definition of the angular width instead of the attenuation of the sensitivity
in relation to the maximum value at the central angle. As a result of this, a largely complete
coverage by the individual directional characteristics can be obtained for a desired, wide angular
range while, as a consequence of the overlap of the individual directional characteristics up to
the respective next central angle, a used signal source always can be clearly assigned to at least
one of the directional characteristics, wherein, as a result of the overlap, angular positions
between two adjacent central angles also are resolvable.
[0030] It was found to be advantageous here if the individual directional characteristics
respectively are predetermined by a notch-shaped sensitivity characteristic which is determined
by at least two conditions such that a central angle and an angular width of the sensitivity
characteristic are respectively set by the at least two conditions, and wherein the signal
components in the individual directional characteristics are respectively examined for the
presence of the signal from the first signal source on the basis of a relative attenuation by the
sensitivity characteristic.
[0031] Here, a notch-shaped sensitivity characteristic should be understood to mean a
directional characteristic which, in respect of a test signal with a given volume, has the
maximum attenuation of the sensitivity at the central angle, with the sensitivity increasing with
increasing angular distance from the central angle. The degree of this increase in sensitivity
depending on the angular distance from the central angle then defines the angular width. If a
signal source is situated in the direction of a central angle of such a directional characteristic, or
if it is in the direct vicinity of the central angle within the scope of the angular resolution, i.e. if
it is within the "notch" of the sensitivity characteristic, the signal components of the used signal
are substantially attenuated by the directional characteristic, while signal components from other
signal sources which are situated outside of the angular width around the central angle of said
directional characteristic are largely maintained. This now can be used for ascertaining presence
of a signal source in the region of the corresponding directional characteristic.
[0032] It was found to be further advantageous if a second direction is assigned to a second
signal source, wherein a second directional signal that is aligned in the second direction is
formed on the basis of the first input signal and the second input signal, and wherein an output
signal is formed on the basis of the first directional signal and the second directional signal, said

                                                   11
output signal being converted into a sound signal by at least one output transducer of the hearing
aid.
[0033] Forming the output signal on the basis of the first directional signal and on the basis of
the second directional signal renders it possible to improve the signal-to-noise ratio for a first
signal produced by the first signal source and for a second signal produced by the second signal
source by virtue of noise which, in particular, originates from an angular range between the first
signal source and the second signal source being able to be accordingly suppressed by the first
directional signal and by the second directional signal and, consequently, not finding noticeable
input in the output signal. In particular, the quality of the output signal improves as a result of
this for a user of the hearing aid in respect of ambient noise incorporated into the first input
signal and into the second input signal when the user is having a conversation with more than
one interlocutor, wherein at least one of the interlocutors is moving and the conversation has
background noise superposed thereon. Then, the first direction and second direction are assigned
to the interlocutors and the first directional signal and second directional signal are respectively
aligned on a speaker such that the speech contributions of a speaker are amplified in relation to
the ambient noise by way of the relevant directional signal. What is moreover achieved by
aligning the first directional signal and the second directional signal on a speaker in each case is
that the user need not follow speech activities of the interlocutors with head movements, for
example in order to be able to maintain an improvement in the speech intelligibility by way of a
fixedly predetermined directional characteristic.
[0034] Preferably, the first directional signal and the second directional signal are in this case
incorporated into the output signal as a superposition, particularly preferably as a linear
superposition. In particular, this means that, in this case, signal processing of the first directional
signal and of the second directional signal can be effectuated, said signal processing being
specific to the hearing aid, and the output signal is formed from the respectively resultant signals
by way of a linear superposition or this means that a linear superposition of the first directional
signal and of the second directional signal is incorporated into the signal processing that is
specific to the hearing aid, and the output signal is formed by way of the signal processing. A
linear superposition of the directional signals aligned on the used signal sources has a
particularly good correspondence to the real hearing situation, precisely for two or more used
signal sources, the first used signal and the second used signal also being subject to a linear

                                                   12
superposition and the resultant sound signal intending to have the background noise removed
therefrom by the hearing aid for improving the signal quality for the user in said real hearing
situation.
[0035] Particularly preferably, linear factors for the first directional signal and for the second
directional signal are respectively determined separately for each frequency band for the linear
superposition in this case. In particular, this means that the linear superposition may provide
different weighting of the first directional signal and of the second directional signal in different
frequency bands. As a result of this, it is possible to account for possible spectral differences
between the first used signal source and the second used signal source such that, for example, in
the case of a frequency band in which only one of the two used signal sources has noteworthy
signal components, the corresponding weighting of the directional signal aligned to the used
signal source is higher. Particularly in the case where the first used signal source and the second
used signal source respectively are interlocutors, it is consequently also possible to take account
of characteristic spectral conditions of the voices of the interlocutors.
[0036] Expediently, at least signal components of the second directional signal are examined for
the presence of a used signal, wherein the weighting of the second directional signal relative to
the first directional signal in the superposition is effectuated on the basis of the presence of a
used signal in the second directional signal. By way of example, what may be determined in a
conversation situation is that a second speaker is in the vicinity, their conversation contributions
being incorporated into the output signal with a higher weighting than if, for example, the
second signal source is given by a localized background noise such as, for example, a
loudspeaker playing back music. In the latter case, the corresponding music should also be
included into the output signal in the correct solid angle range for appropriate spatial perception,
but the speaker accordingly should preferably be clearly prioritized in the weighting in relation
to the background music.
[0037] The invention further specifies a hearing aid, in particular a binaural hearing aid,
comprising at least a first input transducer for producing a first input signal from a sound signal
from the surroundings, a second input transducer for producing a second input signal from the
sound signal, and a signal processing unit which is configured to carry out the method described
above. The advantages specified for the method and its developments may be transferred
analogously to the hearing aid in this case.

                                                    13
[0038] An example embodiment of the invention is explained in more detail below on the basis
of a drawing. In the drawing:
[0039]            Figure 1 schematically shows the course of a method for tracking a
predetermined moving speaker with a directional signal of a hearing aid.
[0040] Figure 1 schematically illustrates the course of a method 1 for operating a hearing aid 2.
A user 4 of the hearing aid 2 is in conversation with a specific speaker 6 who moves relative to
the user 2, for example walks up and down the room, wherein a further interlocutor 8 is party to
the conversation, said interlocutor occasionally making contributions to the conversation, and
background noise is moreover superposed on the conversation.
[0041] The hearing aid 2 has a first input transducer 10 and a second input transducer 12, which
are respectively embodied as microphones. The first input transducer 10 produces a first input
signal 16 from the incoming sound signal 14 from the surroundings, the second input transducer
12 producing a second input signal 18 from the incoming sound signal 14. Now, the direction in
which significant sound sources are even positioned in relation to the frontal direction of the
user 4 is initially ascertained in a localization step 20. By way of example, this can be
effectuated by virtue of a multiplicity of directional characteristics being formed on the basis of
the first input signal 16 and the second input signal 18, said directional characteristics
respectively being aligned on a different center angle, i.e. having a maximum or a minimum of
the sensitivity there. Subsequently, acoustic characteristics are formed on the basis of the signal
components for the respective directional characteristic and the acoustic characteristics at the
different angles are compared to one another, as a result of which, subsequently, it is possible to
ascertain the presence of a signal source.
[0042] By way of example, if the directional characteristics each have a conical embodiment,
the maximum level - optionally averaged over a suitable time window - can be used as a
characteristic. If the maximum level lies above a threshold for specific directional signals, the
assumption is now made that a signal source is present in the corresponding direction - which is
then equated to the center angle of the directional characteristic within the scope of the angle
resolution of the localization step. By way of example, if the directional characteristics each
have a notch-shaped course of the sensitivity such that a minimum of the sensitivity is present at
the center angle, the level which was normalized over the overall level can be used as a

                                                  14
characteristic. The presence of a signal source in a directional characteristic is now ascertained
on the basis of an attenuation of the level by the directional characteristic since the overall level,
as a normalization factor, remains unaffected by the minimum of the sensitivity and a signal
source in the region of the center angle is attenuated by the directional characteristic.
[0043] In the present case, the certain speaker 6 is ascertained as first signal source 22 and the
further interlocutor 8 is ascertained as second signal source 24. The direction of the directional
characteristic for which is extremal the acoustic characteristic is assigned to the certain speaker
6 as first direction 26. A comparable statement applies to the second direction 28, which is
assigned to the further interlocutor 8.
[0044] Now, a first directional signal 30 aligned in the first direction 26 and a second directional
signal 32 aligned in the second direction 28, each with a narrow conical directional
characteristic, are formed in order to accentuate the signal from the first signal source 22 and
from the second signal source 24 in relation to background noise. In the case where the
localization step 20 was already carried out on the basis of conical directional characteristics,
directional signals with the corresponding directional characteristics, in which the first signal
source 22 and the second signal source 24, respectively, were localized, simply can be formed or
continued to be used as first directional signal 30 and second directional signal 32.
[0045] Now, the first directional signal 30 and the second directional signal 32 are respectively
transformed into the time-frequency domain TFD and signal components of the first directional
signal 30 and of the second directional signal 32 are then respectively examined in respect of
their signal-to-noise ratio SNR in the time-frequency domain TFD. Use is only made of those
signal components 34 for which the signal-to-noise ratio SNR is below a given threshold. Now,
vectors of characteristic data 36 are formed from the signal components 34 derived from the first
directional signal 30. Here, the characteristic data 36 is such that they can be related to
previously stored, spectral characteristics 38 relating to the voice of the specific speaker 6. By
way of example, this can be effectuated by way of a probability model which ascertains a
probability value 40 for the first signal source 22 being given by the specific speaker 6 on the
basis of the compatibility of the characteristic data 36 with the spectral characteristics 38 of the
specific speaker 6. The first signal source 22 is identified as the specific speaker 6 if the
probability value 40 lies above a predetermined threshold. Now, the first directional signal 30
can be used directly for further user-specific signal processing 42 in the hearing aid 2, for

                                                   15
example increasing the level in specific frequency bands depending on an audiogram of the user
4. The output signal 44 of the signal processing 42 now is converted into a sound signal 48 that
is audible for the user 4 by way of at least one output transducer 46, which is formed by a
loudspeaker in the present case.
[0046] Here, in particular, the signal processing 42 also may comprise a speaker-specific
correction by way of correction parameters 50 that are individual to the specific speaker 6, in
which, for improving the speech intelligibility, specific frequency regions, for example at
important formants, can be particularly accentuated in an intermediate signal, derived from the
first directional signal 30, on the basis of known spectral parameters of the voice of the specific
speaker 6.
[0047] If the specific speaker 6 is localized in the first direction 26, the localization step 20 can
be repeated periodically in order thus to be able to track certain speakers 6 by way of the first
directional signal 30. Here, monitoring by way of the characteristic data 36 and the spectral
characteristics 38 ensures that, in the case of a realignment of the first direction 26, the first
directional signal 30 continues to be aligned on the specific speaker 6. If this cannot be verified,
i.e. if the sound signal of the signal source on which the first directional signal 30 was newly
aligned is not compatible with the spectral characteristics 38 of the specific speaker 6, the
current position of the specific speaker 6 can be sought after and the latter can be verified as a
first, sought-after signal source 22 by a restart at the localization step 20 and the following
subsequent steps. As a result of this, the specific speaker 6 can be continuously tracked by the
first directional signal 30 such that their speech contributions can be amplified over the
background noise by way of the first directional signal 30. By comparing the spectral
characteristics 38 to the characteristic data 38, it is possible to ensure that the first directional
signal is permanently aligned on the certain speaker 6 - and not, for example, on the further
interlocutor 8.
[0048] Even though the invention was illustrated and described in more detail by way of the
preferred exemplary embodiment, the invention is not restricted by this exemplary embodiment.
Other variations can be derived therefrom by a person skilled in the art, without departing from
the scope of protection of the invention.

                                                  16
[0049] In the context of this specification, the word "comprising" means "including principally
but not necessarily solely" or "having" or "including", and not "consisting only of'. Variations
of the word "comprising", such as "comprise" and "comprises" have correspondingly varied
meanings.

                                             17
[0050] List of reference signs
1      Method
2      Hearing aid
4      User
6      Specific speaker
8      Further interlocutor
10     First input transducer
12     Second input transducer
14     Incoming sound signal (from the surroundings)
16     First input signal
18     Second input signal
20     Localization step
22     First signal source
24     Second signal source
26     First direction
28     Second direction
30     First directional signal
32     Second directional signal
34     Signal components
36     Characteristic data
38     Spectral characteristics
40     Probability value
42     Signal processing
44     Output signal
46     Output transducer
48     Sound signal
50     Individual correction parameter
TFD    Time-frequency domain
SNR    Signal-to-noise ratio

                                                   18
CLAIMS
1.      A method for operating a hearing aid comprising at least a first input transducer and a
second input transducer,
        wherein the first input transducer generates a first input signal from a sound signal from
the surroundings and the second input transducer generates a second input signal from the sound
signal,
        wherein a first direction is assigned to a first signal source,
        wherein a first directional signal that is aligned in the first direction is formed on the
basis of the first input signal and the second input signal,
        wherein at least signal components of the first directional signal are examined for the
presence of a used signal from a used signal source that is predetermined in view of its type,
        wherein spectral characteristics of the used signal source are predetermined for the
examination of at least the signal components of the first directional signal for the presence of
the used signal, and
        wherein a probability value is ascertained for signal components that are compatible with
the spectral characteristics being contained in the first directional signal and a presence of the
used signal is deduced if a predetermined first threshold is exceeded by the probability value.
2.      The method as claimed in claim 1,
        wherein a position of the used signal source is ascertained on the basis of the first input
signal and the second input signal if the used signal is present in the first directional signal and,
if a change in the position of the used signal source is ascertained, the first directional signal is
aligned in the direction of the modified position of the used signal source.
3.      The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2,
        wherein the position of the used signal source is continuously updated if the used signal
is present in the first directional signal.
4.      The method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
        wherein the spectral characteristics are stored in a database of the hearing aid before the
hearing aid is activated.
5.      The method as claimed in any one of claims I to 3,

                                                   19
        wherein a user of the hearing aid identifies the used signal of the used signal source by a
user input during the operation of said hearing aid and the spectral characteristics are ascertained
on the basis of the first directional signal and stored in a database.
6.      The method as claimed in any one of claims I to 3,
        wherein the signal of the first signal source is identified as used signal during the
operation of the hearing aid and the first signal source is predetermined as used signal source,
and
        wherein the spectral characteristics of the used signal source are ascertained on the basis
of the first directional signal.
7.      The method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
        wherein an output signal is formed on the basis of the first directional signal, said output
signal being converted into a sound signal by at least one output transducer of the hearing aid.
8.      The method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
        wherein a specific speaker is predetermined as used signal source and a human speech
signal of the speaker is predetermined as used signal.
9.      The method as claimed in claim 8 with claim 7,
        wherein individual correction parameters are predetermined for the speech signal of the
specific speaker, and
        wherein the first directional signal and/or an intermediate signal which is incorporated
into the output signal is/are corrected on the basis of the individual correction parameters if the
speech signal of the specific speaker is present in the first directional signal.
10.     The method as claimed in claim 9,
        wherein the individual correction parameters for the specific speaker are stored in a
database of the hearing aid before the hearing aid is activated and/or said individual correction
parameters for the specific speaker are ascertained on the basis of the first directional signal and
a user input, and are stored in a database.

                                                    20
11.      The method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
         wherein at least signal components of the first directional signal are transferred to an
external unit,
         wherein the signal components of the first directional signal are examined in the external
unit for the presence of the used signal of the used signal source that is predetermined in view of
its type, and
         wherein the result of the examination of the first directional signal is transmitted to the
hearing aid.
12.      The method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
         wherein the first directional signal is transformed into the time-frequency domain (TFD)
and/or individual time periods of the first directional signal are examined for a signal-to-noise
ratio (SNR) in the time domain and/or in the time-frequency domain (TFD), and
         wherein only time periods with a signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) which lies above a
predetermined second threshold are used for the examination for the presence of the used signal.
13.      The method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
         wherein the first direction for the assignment is ascertained on the basis of the first input
signal and the second input signal.
14.      The method as claimed in claim 13,
         wherein a plurality of angle-dependent directional characteristics with a respective fixed
central angle and a given angular width are formed on the basis of the first input signal and the
second input signal,
         wherein the signal components in the individual directional characteristics are examined
for the presence of the signal from the first signal source, and
         wherein the corresponding central angle is assigned as first direction to a first signal
source ascertained in a specific directional characteristic.
15.      The method as claimed in claim 14,
         wherein the individual directional characteristics respectively are predetermined by a
notch-shaped sensitivity characteristic which is determined by at least two conditions such that a
central angle and an angular width of the sensitivity characteristic are respectively set by the at

                                                  21
least two conditions, and wherein the signal components in the individual directional
characteristics are respectively examined for the presence of the signal from the first signal
source on the basis of the relative attenuation by the sensitivity characteristic.
16.     The method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
        wherein a second direction is assigned to a second signal source,
        wherein a second directional signal that is aligned in the second direction is formed on
the basis of the first input signal and the second input signal, and
        wherein an output signal is formed on the basis of the first directional signal and the
second directional signal, said output signal being converted into a sound signal by at least one
output transducer of the hearing aid.
17.     The method as claimed in claim 16,
        wherein the first directional signal and the second directional signal are incorporated into
the output signal as a superposition.
18.     The method as claimed in claim 17,
        wherein at least signal components of the second directional signal are examined for the
presence of a used signal, and
        wherein the weighting of the second directional signal relative to the first directional
signal in the superposition is effectuated on the basis of the presence of a used signal in the
second directional signal.
19.     A hearing aid, in particular a binaural hearing aid, comprising at least a first input
transducer for producing a first input signal from a sound signal from the surroundings, a second
input transducer for producing a second input signal from the sound signal, and a signal
processing unit which is configured to carry out the method as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims.
                                          Sivantos Pte. Ltd
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                      SPRUSON & FERGUSON

                                                              <U+2701>   <U+2734>       <U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                                                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                                                      <U+2739>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                  <U+273D>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                              <U+273B>
                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2736>
                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                  <U+2739>
                      <U+2737>
                                                                              <U+2737>
                              <U+2737>
                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                      <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2739>
              <U+273B>
                                      <U+273B>
                                      <U+2737>
                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                      <U+2735>
                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                      <U+2737>
                          <U+273D>

