        GUIDE CATHETER COMPOSED OF SHAPE MEMORY POLYMER
                         ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
         A guide catheter includes a tubular section formed of a shape memory
polymer that can transform dynamically between first and second states or
conditions, or among three states or conditions, to provide a wide range of properties
of the guide catheter as desired during delivery of the guide catheter through the
vasculature to a target site, and removal of the guide catheter from the target site and
vasculature. The states or conditions of the shape memory polymer be dynamically
changed to vary properties of the tubular section such as stiffness, flexibility, shape,
or biodegradability, which can be controlled by exposure of the shape memory
polymer to temperature changes, electric fields, magnetic fields, wavelengths of
light, and chemical solutions.

30
         22
            18
               20       32
 28 24                16     10
      26                              FIG. 1
                                12
                                      14
   22
      18     )    -34
   24
                                   12
                                         14
                      FIG. 2

                                             -1
        GUIDE CATHETER COMPOSED OF SHAPE MEMORY POLYMER
               CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       This application is based upon and claims priority from U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/414,577, filed November 17, 2010, which is incorporated by
reference in its entirety.
                         BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]       The present invention relates generally to guiding catheters, and more
particularly relates to the use of a shape memory polymer for controlling the
stiffness, flexibility or shape of at least a portion of a guiding catheter.
[0003]     Guiding catheters are catheters that are utilized in various medical
procedures, including venography and implanting of neuro or cardiac devices for
locating and cannulating vessels in a patient's vasculature, such as in a patient's heart
or carotid arteries, for example. Cannulating small convoluted vessels requires
navigating a small diameter, flexible guide through the vasculature into the
destination vessel. Once the destination vessel is reached, the guiding catheter
typically acts as a conduit for insertion of a therapeutic device into the vessel. A pre
shaped guiding catheter is typically used to blindly locate the vertebral or carotid
artery. This endeavor, however, is complicated by the fact that the location of the
vertebral or carotid may vary appreciably from one patient to another, especially
among patients with vascular disease, and physicians frequently need to gain further
access into the vasculature.
[0004]     A fixed shaped catheter is adequate in many cases where the pathway is not
significantly convoluted and the pathway does not deviate significantly between
patients. In situations where structural anomalies or significant variations exist, use
of a fixed shape catheter may require that the clinician stock multiple sizes and
shapes of catheters to account for potential variations. Fixed shaped catheters can
require a time consuming trial and error process of inserting and removing different
shapes until the destination vessel is successfully accessed.

                                           -2
[00051     There is a need for an improved guide catheter for accessing vessels, such
as small or convoluted vessels in the neurovasculature, for example, that can
dynamically account for anatomical variations and defects associated with
destination structures, and that can transform dynamically between a first state or
condition to a second state or condition as needed, for delivery through the
vasculature, to support treatment at a target site, and for removal from the target site
and vasculature. There is also a need for an improved guide catheter for accessing
vessels in the neurovasculature that can transform dynamically among first, second
and third states or conditions as needed, for delivery through the vasculature, to
support treatment at a target site, and for removal from the target site and
vasculature. The present invention meets these and other needs.
                          SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]     Briefly and in general terms, the present invention provides for a guide
catheter including a tubular section formed of a shape memory polymer that can
transform dynamically between first and second states or conditions, or among any
of three states or conditions, to provide a wide range of properties of the guide
catheter as desired during delivery of the guide catheter through the vasculature to a
target site, and removal of the guide catheter from the target site and vasculature.
[0007]     The present invention accordingly provides for a guide catheter including a
proximal tubular main body having a proximal portion and a distal portion, a distal
tubular section having a proximal portion and a distal portion, and an intermediate
tubular section having a proximal portion and a distal portion. The intermediate
tubular section is connected between the proximal tubular main body and the
intermediate tubular section, and a common lumen interconnects and extends through
the proximal tubular main body, the intermediate tubular section and the distal
tubular section. The intermediate tubular section advantageously is formed of a
shape memory polymer having at least a first state or condition having a first set of
one or more properties, and a second state or condition having a corresponding
second set of one or more properties, at least one of which is different from the first
set of one or more properties.

                                            -3
[0008]     In a presently preferred aspect, the first state or condition includes a first
degree of stiffness of the intermediate tubular section, the second state or condition
comprises a second degree of stiffness of the intermediate tubular section, and the
second degree of stiffness of the intermediate tubular section is greater than the first
degree of stiffness of the intermediate tubular section. In another presently preferred
aspect, the first state or condition includes a first degree of flexibility of the
intermediate tubular section, the second state or condition includes a second degree
of flexibility of the intermediate tubular section, and the first degree of flexibility of
the intermediate tubular section is greater than the second degree of flexibility of the
intermediate tubular section. In another presently preferred aspect, the first state or
condition includes a first shape of the intermediate tubular section, the second state
or condition includes a second shape different from the first shape of the intermediate
tubular section. The first shape can be a curved shape providing a predetermined
angular configuration of the intermediate tubular section, while the second shape can
be substantially straight, for example. In another presently preferred aspect, the
intermediate tubular section is relatively more biodegradable in the second state or
condition than in the first state or condition.
[0009]     In another presently preferred aspect, transition of the shape memory
polymer between the first state or condition to the second state or condition is
induced by exposure of the shape memory polymer to a temperature change, such
that the shape memory polymer is in the first state or condition when subjected to a
first predetermined temperature range, and the shape memory polymer is in the
second state or condition when subjected to a second predetermined temperature
range. Alternatively, a transition of the shape memory polymer between the first
state or condition to the second state or condition can be induced by exposure of the
shape memory polymer to one or more predetermined temperature ranges, exposure
of the shape memory polymer to one or more predetermined electric fields, exposure
of the shape memory polymer to one or more predetermined magnetic fields,
exposure of the shape memory polymer to one or more predetermined wavelengths
of light, exposure of the shape memory polymer to one or more predetermined
chemical solutions, or combinations thereof.

                                             -4
[0010]      In another presently preferred aspect, the shape memory polymer has a
third state or condition, such as a third shape different from the first and second
shapes of the intermediate tubular section, although the third state or condition may
also include a set of one or more properties selected from stiffness, flexibility, shape
and biodegradability, and combinations thereof, corresponding to the first and second
sets of properties of the first and second states or conditions. Transition of the shape
memory polymer among the first, second and third states or conditions can be
induced by exposure of the shape memory polymer to a plurality of predetermined
temperature ranges, exposure of the shape memory polymer to a plurality of
predetermined electric fields, exposure of the shape memory polymer to a plurality of
predetermined magnetic fields, exposure of the shape memory polymer to a plurality
of predetermined wavelengths of light, exposure of the shape memory polymer to a
plurality of predetermined chemical solutions, or combinations thereof.
[0011]        Other features and advantages of the present invention will become more
apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments in
conjunction with the accompanying drawings, which illustrate, by way of example,
the operation of the invention.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0012]        Figure 1 is a perspective view of a guide catheter according to the present
invention, illustrating a first state or condition of the intermediate tubular section.
[0013]        Fig. 2 is a perspective view of the guide catheter of Fig. 1, illustrating a
second state or condition of the intermediate tubular section.
        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0014]      Referring to the drawings, which are provided by way of example, and not
by way of limitation, the present invention provides for a guide catheter 10, including
a proximal tubular main body 12 having a proximal portion 14 and a distal portion
 16, a distal tubular section 18 having a proximal portion 20 and a distal portion 22,
and an intermediate tubular section 24 having a proximal portion 26 and a distal
portion 28. The proximal portion of the intermediate tubular section is connected to

                                            -5
the distal portion of the proximal tubular main body, the distal portion of the
intermediate tubular section is connected to the proximal portion of the distal tubular
section, and a common lumen 30 interconnects and extends through the proximal
tubular main body, intermediate tubular section and the distal tubular section. In a
presently preferred aspect the intermediate tubular section is advantageously formed
of a shape memory polymer having a first state or condition 32, such as a curved
shape or configuration providing a predetermined angular configuration of the
intermediate tubular section, for example, illustrated in Fig. 1, and a second state or
condition 34, such as a substantially straightened configuration of the intermediate
tubular section, for example, illustrated in Fig. 2.
[0015]     Most shape memory polymers can retain two shapes, and the transition
between those is induced by temperature. In some recent shape memory polymers,
heating to certain transition temperatures allows a fix of up to three different shapes.
In addition to temperature change, the shape change of shape memory polymers can
also be triggered by an electric or magnetic field, light or solution. Shape memory
polymers can also have a wide variety of other properties that can change between
first and second different states or conditions, or among three different states or
conditions, such as from stable to biodegradable, from soft to hard, from elastic to
rigid, and the like depending on the structural units that constitute the shape memory
polymers. Shape memory polymers that can be used in the present invention include
thermoplastic and thermoset (covalently crosslinked) polymeric materials.
[0016]     In general the dynamic transition of properties and/or shapes of the guide
catheter of the present invention provides the guide catheter with the ability to
change useful characteristics of the guide catheter, such as from a very soft device
for accessing very distal vessel to a stiffer state for support while at the target site
and return to a softer state for removal of the device, for example.
[0017]     The first and second states or conditions can encompass one or more
properties, such as first and second degrees of stiffness, flexibility, biodegradability,
or shapes, for example, although other similar variance of properties of the
intermediate tubular section may also be suitable. Typically, when the first and
second states or conditions include first and second degrees of stiffness, the second

                                           -6
degree of stiffness of the intermediate tubular section is greater than the first degree
of stiffness of the intermediate tubular section. Similarly, when the first and second
states or conditions include first and second degrees of flexibility, the first degree of
flexibility of the intermediate tubular section is greater than the second degree of
flexibility of the intermediate tubular section. The intermediate tubular section can
also be made to be relatively non-biodegradable or stable in the first state or
condition, and relatively more biodegradable in the second state or condition than in
the first state or condition. Similarly, when the first and second states or conditions
include first and second shapes, the first shape can be a curved shape providing a
predetermined angular configuration of the intermediate tubular section, while the
second shape can be substantially straight, for example, as illustrated in Figs. 1 and
2.
[0018]      A transition of the shape memory polymer between the first state or
condition to the second state or condition can, for example, be induced by exposure
of the shape memory polymer to changes in temperature, changes in an electric field
or magnetic field, exposure to different wavelengths of light, chemical solutions, or
combinations thereof, or other similar dynamic, controllable environments for the
shape memory polymer that can affect the properties of the shape memory polymer.
For example, when the transition between the first state or condition and second state
or condition can be induced by exposure of the shape memory polymer to changes in
temperature, the shape memory polymer typically is in the first state or condition
when subjected to a first predetermined temperature range, and the shape memory
polymer is in the second state or condition when subjected to a second predetermined
temperature range different from the first temperature range. Similarly, when a
transition of the shape memory polymer between the first state or condition to the
second state or condition can be induced by exposure of the shape memory polymer
to a predetermined electric field, the shape memory polymer typically is in the first
state or condition when subjected to a first predetermined electric field, and the shape
memory polymer is in the second state or condition when subjected to a second
predetermined electric field different from the first predetermined electric field.
Similarly, when a transition of the shape memory polymer between the first state or
condition to the second state or condition can be induced by exposure of the shape

                                             -7
memory polymer a predetermined magnetic field, the shape memory polymer
typically is in the first state or condition when subjected to a first predetermined
magnetic field, and the shape memory polymer is in the second state or condition
when subjected to a second predetermined magnetic field different from the first
predetermined magnetic field.
[0019]     Similarly, when a transition of the shape memory polymer between the first
state or condition to the second state or condition can be induced by exposure of the
shape memory polymer to a predetermined wavelength of light, the shape memory
polymer typically is in the first state or condition when subjected to a first
wavelength of light, and the shape memory polymer is in the second state or
condition when subjected to a second predetermined wavelength of light different
from the first predetermined wavelength of light.
[0020]     Similarly, when a transition of the shape memory polymer between the first
state or condition to the second state or condition can be induced by exposure of the
shape memory polymer to a predetermined chemical solution, the shape memory
polymer typically is in the first state or condition when subjected to a first
predetermined chemical solution, and the shape memory polymer is in the second
state or condition when subjected to a second predetermined chemical solution
different from the first predetermined chemical solution.
[0021]     The shape memory polymer can also have a third state or state or condition
which can encompass a third set of one or more properties corresponding to the first
and second sets of properties, such as first and second degrees of stiffness, flexibility,
biodegradability, or shapes, such as a third shape different from first and second
shapes of the intermediate tubular section, for example, although other similar
variance of properties of the intermediate tubular section may also be suitable.
Transition of the shape memory polymer among the first, second and third states or
conditions can induced by exposure of the shape memory polymer to a temperature
change, wherein the shape memory polymer is in the third state or condition when
subjected to a third predetermined temperature range, for example. Alternatively,
transition of the shape memory polymer among the first, second and third states or
conditions can be induced by exposure of the shape memory polymer to a plurality of

                                            -8
predetermined temperature ranges, exposure of the shape memory polymer to a
plurality of predetermined electric fields, exposure of the shape memory polymer to a
plurality of predetermined magnetic fields, exposure of the shape memory polymer
to a plurality of predetermined wavelengths of light, exposure of the shape memory
polymer to a plurality of predetermined chemical solutions, or combinations thereof.
[0022]       It will be apparent from the foregoing that while particular forms of the
invention have been illustrated and described, various modifications can be made
without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, it is not
intended that the invention be limited, except as by the appended claims.
[0023]       Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises"
and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or
step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or
group of integers or steps.
[0024]       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part
of the common general knowledge.
[0025]       This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
<removed-apn> which is a divisional of Australian Application 2011250804. The full
disclosure of <removed-apn> and AU 2011250804 are incorporated herein by reference.

                                           -9
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
        1.       A guide catheter, comprising:
        a proximal tubular main body having a proximal portion and a distal portion
and a lumen therethrough;
        a distal tubular section having a proximal portion and a distal portion and a
lumen therethrough; and
        an intermediate tubular section having a proximal portion and a distal portion
and a lumen therethrough, said proximal portion of said intermediate tubular section
connected to said distal portion of said proximal tubular main body, said distal
portion of said intermediate tubular section connected to said proximal portion of
said distal tubular section, said lumen of said intermediate tubular section
interconnecting said lumens of said proximal tubular main body and said distal
tubular section, a common lumen interconnecting and extending through said
proximal tubular main body, said intermediate tubular section and said distal tubular
section, and wherein said intermediate tubular section is formed of a shape memory
polymer having a first degree of biodegradability of said intermediate tubular
section, and a second degree of biodegradability of said intermediate tubular section
greater than said first degree of biodegradability.
        2.       The guide catheter of Claim 1, wherein said shape memory polymer is
configured to have said first degree of biodegradability when subjected to a first
predetermined temperature range, and said shape memory polymer is configured to
have said second degree of biodegradability when subjected to a second
predetermined temperature range.
        3.       The guide catheter of Claim 1, wherein a transition of said shape
memory polymer between said first degree of biodegradability to said second degree

                                          - 10
of biodegradability is induced by exposure of said shape memory polymer to a
predetermined electric field.
        4.      The guide catheter of Claim 1, wherein a transition of said shape
memory polymer between said first degree of biodegradability to said second degree
of biodegradability is induced by exposure of said shape memory polymer a
predetermined magnetic field.
        5.      The guide catheter of Claim 1, wherein a transition of said shape
memory polymer between said first degree of biodegradability to said second degree
of biodegradability is induced by exposure of said shape memory polymer to a
predetermined wavelength of light.
        6.      The guide catheter of Claim 1, wherein a transition of said shape
memory polymer between said first degree of biodegradability to said second degree
of biodegradability is induced by exposure of said shape memory polymer to a
predetermined chemical solution.
        7.      The guide catheter of Claim 1, wherein said shape memory polymer
has a third degree of biodegradability, and wherein said third degree of
biodegradability different from said first and second degree of degree of
biodegradability.
        8.      The guide catheter of Claim 7, wherein a transition of said shape
memory polymer among said first, second and third degree of biodegradability is
induced by exposure of the shape memory polymer to a plurality of predetermined
temperature ranges, exposure of the shape memory polymer to a plurality of
predetermined electric fields, exposure of the shape memory polymer to a plurality of
predetermined magnetic fields, exposure of the shape memory polymer to a plurality

                                        - 11
of predetermined wavelengths of light, exposure of the shape memory polymer to a
plurality of predetermined chemical solutions, and combinations thereof.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
