Abstract
There is described a gaming table (3) having a playing surface (9) in which a display panel
(6) is positioned below the playing surface of the gaming table, and is operable to display
moving and/or still images which can be viewed through the playing surface by players at the
table. A diffuser screen 8 may be placed between the playing surface (9) and the display
panel (6). If the upper surface of the display panel (6) is uneven, a cover sheet 16 may be
placed over the display panel (6) to provide a smooth substrate for the diffuser screen (8)
and/or the playing surface (9). Embodiments are described in which a projector projects an
image onto the undersurface of a screen mounted below the playing surface so that the image
is visible through the playing surface.

                                                  1
                                    GAMING TABLE
   The present invention relates to gaming tables, and is primarily concerned with
   gaming tables for dice games and roulette games, but is also applicable to gaming
   tables for card games, etc.
 5 Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
   considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of
   common general knowledge in the field.
   The most popular casino dice games are craps and Sic Bo. A craps table is
   generally provided with a cloth playing surface onto which the dice are thrown. A
10 part of the cloth is marked out as a betting area, in which areas are delineated
   representing different wagers available to the players. Players place chips in one
   or more of these delineated areas to represent their wager or wagers.
   In conventional Sic Bo tables, a hard playing surface or a felt gaming cloth is
   provided, with markings to delineate areas in which players may place wagers in
15 the form of chips. The table may be provided with an automatic dice shaker, in
   which dice are contained beneath a transparent dome and are shaken by an
   automated actuator on command. The dome may be covered by an opaque shield,
   which is removed and replaced by the croupier during play.
   In some hard-topped gaming tables, a "lightbox" is used to illuminate a particular
20 betting area to indicate winning bets. In such tables, betting areas of the playing
   surface have positioned beneath them a respective lightbox coextensive with the
   betting area. A lamp within the lightbox can be lit to shine light upward through
   the playing surface so as to illuminate that betting area. The walls surrounding the
   lightbox are opaque, to prevent diffusion of the light from causing neighbouring
25 areas to be illuminated when the lamp is lit. Lamps may be flashed sequentially or
   randomly to indicate various phases of the game such as 'place bets'.
   It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of
   the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.

                                                 2
   At least one embodiment of the present invention seeks to provide an illuminated
   gaming table which provides for the display of more complex moving images on
   the betting and playing surfaces of the table. The table surface may be formed
   from cloth, such as textile, felt or baize material, or from a hard material such as
 5 acrylic plastic (e.g., perspex @) or glass.
   The table includes an imaging device which can project light through the table
   surface to display images on the playing surface. In a preferred embodiment, a
   controllable display panel is mounted beneath the table surface. The display panel
   may be controllable to show animated sequences of images or other moving
10 displays. The moving images may move around the playing areas, the betting
   areas, or in all parts of the table surface.
   In an alternative embodiment, the imaging device may be a projector which
   projects a moving image onto a screen placed beneath the table surface or on to
   the underside of the table surface, so that the image is visible through the table
15 surface.
   The selection and display of animated images may be controlled so as to be
   synchronised with gaming or other events at the table or elsewhere.
   One embodiment provides a gaming table comprising a table surface and means to
   display images visible through the table surface.
20 One embodiment provides an illuminated gaming table system comprising:
             a gaming table as herein disclosed;
             input means for inputting signals indicating events in a game on the
   gaming table; and
             control means responsive to inputs from the input means to control the
25 display of images.
   One embodiment provides a gaming table comprising:
             a playing surface;

                                                 2a
            an LED illuminated display panel mounted beneath the playing surface to
   display images, the images being visible through the playing surface; and
            a diffuser screen between the display panel and the playing surface.
   One embodiment provides an illuminated gaming table system comprising:
 5          a gaming table as herein disclosed and further comprising input means
   for inputting signals indicating events in a game on the gaming table; and
            control means responsive to inputs from the input means to control the
   display of images by the display panel.
   Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
10 claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an
   inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in
   the sense of "including, but not limited to".
   An embodiment of the present invention will now be described in detail with
   reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
15 Figure 1 is a schematic exploded view of a gaming table according to an
   embodiment of the invention;
   Figure 2 is a sectional view taken in the plane 2-2 of Figure 1; Figure 2a is an
   enlarged sectional view of a display panel and overlying components of the
   gaming table of Figure 1;
20 Figure 3 is a schematic diagram of a gaming table display and control system;
   Figure 4 is a perspective view of a gaming table according to a second
   embodiment of the invention, adapted for the playing of dice games; and
   Figure 5 is a sectional view similar to Figure 2 of a gaming table according to a
   third embodiment of the invention.
25

                                              3
   Referring to Figures 1 and 2, Figure 1 illustrates a gaming table I comprising a table
   base 2. The table base 2 has a generally planar horizontal top 3 supported by legs 4.
   The tabletop 3 has a central recess 5, into which is set an LED display panel 6. The
 5 LED display panel 6 is composed of a multitude of LEDs 7, individually controllable
   so as to act as a number of individual pixels. The LED display panel 6 is shown with
   a smooth upper surface. In practice, a separate upper layer overlying the LEDs may
   be used to achieve the smooth upper surface.
10 Overlying the tabletop 3 and LED display panel 6 in Figures 1 and 2 is a translucent
   layer of a resilient synthetic plastics foam material which acts as a diffuser screen 8,
   and preferably extends over the entire tabletop 3 to provide a smooth continuous
   surface. The foam material is preferably from 1 mm to 10 mm in thickness, to
   provide adequate diffusion with minimal light bleed into adjacent cells.
15
   Applied to the upper surface of the translucent diffuser screen 8 is a cloth 9, which
   forms the playing surface and betting surface of the table. The cloth 9 may be a
   standard polyester cloth as is conventionally used in gaming tables.
20 The conventional cloth 9, overlying the foam diffuser layer 8 has tactile playing
   surface characteristics which are substantially the same as a standard gaming table.
   The foam diffuser layer acts to blend the light from the individual LEDs of the
   display panel and also provides a soft feel to the cloth 9.
25 If the upper surface of the display panel 6 is uneven, a clear Perspex cover is provided
   over the LEDs to create an even upper surface.
   The tabletop 3 is provided with a control panel 20, with a number of control input
   buttons 21 to 24. These are used by the croupier in charge of the table to control the
30  operation of the display panel 6, as will be described below.

                                             4
   The upper surface of the cloth may be formed with printed lines 10 to delineate
   playing or betting areas on the cloth.
   Figure 2 is a sectional view of the table of Figure 1, showing the tabletop 3 supported
 5 on legs 4, with the recess 5 in the upper surface of the tabletop 3 accommodating the
   LED display panel 6.       Diffuser screen 8 overlies the tabletop 3 and LED display
   screen 6, while the cloth 9 extends over the upper surface of the diffuser screen 8.
   The printed lines 10 on the upper surface of the cloth 9 are exaggerated, for clarity.
10 The LEDs 7 of the display panel 6 may be controlled to display animated or still
   images on the display panel 6, or simply to display areas of colour, abstract patterns,
   geometric shapes etc.      The sharpness of the individual LEDs is softened by the
   translucent diffuser screen 8, and the brightness of the LEDs is such that the image
   can be seen through the cloth 9 and the diffuser screen 8 by players surrounding the
15 table.
   Figure 2a is a sectional view illustrating an LED display panel 6 from the upper
   surface of which a number of LEDs 7 protrude. The upper surface of the display
   panel 6 is thus not smooth. To provide a smooth substrate for the diffuser layer 8 a
20 cover sheet 16 overlies the display panel 6. The cover sheet 16 may be a clear sheet
   of Perspex, or may be formed from an opaque material. When this type of display
   panel and cover sheet 16 is used in the table 3 of Figure 2, the recess 5 in the tabletop
   3 will be dimensioned so as to accommodate the display panel 6 and the cover sheet
    16 with the upper surface of the cover sheet 16 flush with the remainder of the
25 tabletop 3 to provide a smooth continuous surface for the diffuser layer 8 and the
   cloth 9.
    If the upper surface of the display panel 6 is sufficiently smooth, then the cover layer
    16 may be omitted.
30
    In alternative embodiments, such as tables for Sic Bo, the playing surface may be a
    hard light-transmitting layer formed for example from transparent or translucent glass

                                              5
   or Perspex material. If the playing surface is a layer of transparent material, then a
   diffuser screen may be placed beneath the playing surface, and the animated images
   may be projected onto or displayed against the undersurface of the diffuser screen. If
   the playing surface is a layer of translucent material, the playing surface itself may act
 5 as a diffuser screen and the moving images may be projected or displayed directly
   onto the underside of the playing surface layer.
   Figure 3 schematically illustrates a control system for controlling the display of the
   gaming table.
10
   The control system comprises a control unit 100 comprising a processor 101 and a
   memory 102.       Stored in the memory 102 are video animation sequences 103, 104,
    105, each of which corresponds to an animation sequence required to be shown
   during a stage of play of the game for which the table is intended. The memory 102
15 may also store a number of still images 106, 107, and/or a number of abstract patterns
    108.
   The control system further comprises an LED display driver 110 under control of the
   control unit 100, which in turn sends appropriate signals to the LED display 6 to
20 display the required images and/or patterns.
    Linked to the control unit 100 are a number of inputs 21 to 24, by which different
    events in a game may be signalled to the processor 101.
25  In the present example, the table is intended for a dice game where each game
    comprises five elements, namely:
         1. an initial betting phase during which players place their bets on the betting
            regions marked out by the markings 10 on the cloth 9;
30
        2.  a dice throwing event in which to dice are thrown;

                                            6
       3. a result determining event in which the result of the throw of the dice is
           determined;
       4. a wager resolution phase during which wagers placed by the players are
 5         resolved, either by being returned, forfeit or by having winnings added to
           them; and
       5. a "game end" event signifying that all bets placed on that game have been
           resolved and betting is now open for the next game.
10
   At the start of play, the croupier in charge of the table may make a "Betting Phase"
   input, for example by operating an input button 21 marked "Betting" to signify that
   the initial betting phase has begun. In response to the "Betting Phase" input, the
   processor 101 may select a first animation sequence 103 from the memory 102, and
15 send control signals to the LED display driver 110 so that the animation sequence is
   shown on the LED display and is visible to the players through the cloth 9.
   The memory 102 may store a number of different animation sequences intended to be
   played during the betting phase of the game, and may store instructions for the
20 processor 101 to select content to be displayed following each input from the
   croupier.    During the betting phase of the game, the processor may select an
   animation either at random or sequentially from a number of stored animation
   sequences appropriate to this phase of the game. The animation sequence played
   during the betting phase may consist of images of real or mythical creatures, or events
25 such as tumbling dice or flames, and these may be visible beneath the betting area
   and/or the playing area of the table.     The animation sequence played during the
   betting phase may be of a predetermined duration, and the conclusion of the
   animation sequence may signal to the croupier and to the players that the betting
   phase is over. Animation sequences of different lengths may be stored, and the
30 processor may select an animation sequence on the basis of, for example, the time of
   day or the number of players present at the table.

                                             7
   When all players have placed their bets, the dice are thrown and the croupier makes a
   second input by pressing input button 22 marked "Throw" to indicate that the dice
   have been thrown. Alternatively, in a game where an automatic dice shaker is used,
   operation of the dice shaker to throw the dice causes the input indicating that the dice
 5 have been thrown This "Dice Thrown" input is received by the processor 101, which
   may then select a different animation sequence from the stored sequences in memory
   102, and send signals to the display driver so that the LED display changes from the
   first sequence to the new animation sequence while the dice are thrown and settle.
   Again, the duration of this animation sequence may be arranged to correspond with
10 an average or with the longest expected length of time taken for the dice to settle.
   When the dice have settled the croupier will read the numbers on the dice, and make
   an input using the "Result" input 23, to signify to the processor 101 what the result of
   the throw was. For a game using two dice, the "Result" input 23 may consist of an
15 array of six input buttons numbered in sequence from I to 6. To indicate a dice roll of
   4, 3, the button 4 is pressed, followed by button 3 (or button 3 is pressed, followed by
   button 4). Alternatively, the result input 23 may consist of an array of twelve input
   buttons, numbered in two sequences of I to 6, to correspond with the possible results
   of the dice throw. For example, if the result of the throw was that one die showed a 4
20 and the other showed a 3, the croupier could press the number 4 from the first
   sequence of 6, and the number 3 from the second sequence of 6.
   The "Result" input is then sent to the processor 101 which may select from the
   memory 102 a further animation sequence to be sent to the display driver and shown
25 on the LED display 6. This animation sequence may indicate the result, for example
   by using an image of a creature or a pattern which moves around the table and finally
   settles beneath the betting area or areas which correspond to winning bets. The
   selection of the animation sequence to be shown in response to the "Result" input
   may therefore depend on the result of the dice throw.
30

                                              8
   The croupier then resolves all of the wagers placed for that game, and when this
   process is complete operates a "Game over" input to signify the conclusion of that
   game and the opening of the betting phase for the next game.
 5 The "game over" input is received by the processor 101, which then selects an
   animation, still or pattern stored in the memory 102which is appropriate to the betting
   phase, and sends it to the display driver 110 to be shown on the display 6.
   Although the gaming table illustrated in Figures 1 and 2 and described above has
10 been described in terms of its use in a dice game, it is possible to use the playing table
   for roulette games, Big Wheel games or card games. When used for card games, the
   betting areas 11 at one end of the table may be used for delineating regions where
   chips may be placed by players to mark their wager, and a clear area 9a at the other
   end of the table may be used for dealing cards to the players. The table need not be
15 rectangular in shape, but could be semicircular or kidney shape to accommodate
   players of card games. The control panel 20 will be sited so as to be convenient for
   easy operation by the croupier or dealer in charge of the table.
   Figure 4 is a perspective view of an alternative embodiment of the invention, intended
20 for dice games, for example "Craps", "Sic Bo" or other dice games.
   The table shown in Figure 4 has a tabletop 3 whose central region is covered by a
   cloth 9. An edge region 31 of the table surrounds the cloth 9, the edge region being
   raised at 31a to provide three walls 31b partially enclosing one end 9a of the cloth 9.
25 The enclosed area 9a is a playing area into which dice may be thrown and contained
   by the walls 3 lb.
   Extending beneath the entire extent of the cloth 9 is a display panel, on which images,
   still pictures and/or patterns may be displayed as play progresses. A corner region of
30 the cloth 9 is shown cutaway, in order to show the display panel 6. In this
   embodiment, the display panel has a smooth upper surface, no diffuser screen is used
    and the cloth 9 lies directly on the upper surface of the display panel 6. The smooth

                                              9
   upper surface of the display panel is able to provide the required smooth surface
   beneath the cloth to give a satisfactory playing surface.
   At the unenclosed end of the table, the cloth 9 is provided with markings 10 which
 5 delineate betting regions 11 on which players may place bets on the outcome of the
   game.
   The display panel 6 beneath the cloth 9 of the table is controlled by a similar control
   system as described above in relation to Figure 3.
10
   In this embodiment, one or more input means in the form of touch-screen devices 32,
   33, 34 are provided in the surround 31 of the table for the croupier to make the
   appropriate control inputs for the LED display panel mounted beneath the cloth 9.The
   input options presented to the croupier may change during each phase of the game,
15 for example during the betting phase the touch-screen display 32 may simply show a
   prompt for the croupier to make the "Dice Thrown" input by touching the screen as
   the dice are thrown.     When all of the players have placed their chips 40 on the
   required betting areas 11, the dice are thrown and the croupier touches the screen to
   make the "Dice Thrown" input. Alternatively, in a game where an automatic dice
20 shaker is used, operation of the dice shaker to throw the dice may cause the input
   indicating that the dice have been thrown.
   The input means may comprise a plurality of touch-screen devices or a single touch
   screen device, displaying a plurality of control buttons for the croupier to press.
25 Advantageously, the buttons are arranged so that the croupier only has 2 make one
   contact with the touch-screen to signify the appropriate input to the control system.
   For example, the touch-screen display may have a button marked "Dice Thrown" for
   the croupier to press when or as the dice are thrown.
30 When this input is made, the touch-screen display may change to present the croupier
   with images of dice, so that the croupier may simply touch the images to indicate the
   result of the throw. If two dice are being used, the touch-screen display may show

                                           10
   twelve images, respectively representing the 6 sides of 2 dice, so that the croupier
   may touch the two relevant images to indicate the result of the throw. Alternatively,
   the display may show only one set of six dice images, and the croupier may touch one
   of the images twice if the two dice come up with the same number. In accordance
 5 with the input made, the processor as before may select a particular animation or
   pattern to be displayed by the display panel 6 through the cloth 9, to indicate the
   result of the throw to the players.
   The touch-screen display may then change to a prompt to the croupier to make the
10 "Game over" input when all wagers have been resolved, and this input when received
   by the processor may cause it to select a different animation or pattern for display on
   the panel 6.
   An image capture device such as a video camera 50 may be linked to the control
15 system for the display panel 6. The camera 50 maybe directed at players around the
   table, so that images captured by the camera may be selectively displayed on the
   display panel and seen by the players through the cloth 9. The selection of video
   images to be displayed on the display panel 6 may be controlled by the touch-screen
   devices 32, 33, 34 operated by the croupier, or may be controlled remotely.
20
   Figure 5 illustrates a third embodiment of a gaming table according to the invention.
   Figure 5 is a view similar to Figure 2, and corresponding parts are given like
   reference numbers. In Figure 5, the gaming table has a tabletop 3 and legs 4. A
    central region of the tabletop is cutaway to form an opening 3a, and a projection
25  screen 60 is mounted in the opening, the upper surface of the screen being flush with
   the upper surface of the tabletop 3. A cloth playing surface 9 extends over the
    tabletop 3 and the screen 60, with markings 10 on the cloth delineating betting areas,
    etc.
30  Beneath the projection screen 60 there is mounted a projector 61 for projecting
    images onto the undersurface of the screen 60. The screen 60 is of transparent or

                                               11
   translucent material, such that images projected onto the screen 60 are visible from
   above through the cloth 9
   The projector 61 may be controlled by a control system similar to that described in
 5 relation to Figure 3, with the display panel replaced by the projector 61 and the
   display panel driver replaced by a suitable driver circuit for the projector 61.
   In a variant of the embodiment shown in Figure 5, the top of the table may be formed
   from a hard transparent or translucent material and the images projected directly onto
10 the undersurface of the tabletop so as to be visible from above.
   Alternative Embodiments
   Although the diffusion layer 8 has been described as being a layer of foam material, it
15 is foreseen that a solid layer of translucent material such as coloured Perspex or
   frosted glass may be used as the diffusion layer.
    The display of images may not be controlled by the croupier at the table, but may be
    controlled remotely. The various phases of game play may be detected, for example
20 by analysing video images of the table taken from cameras placed around and/or
    above the table, or by sensors placed on or about the table, and appropriate control
    inputs may be applied to the display by a remote control means receiving input from
   the sensors or cameras when different phases of the game are detected. In essence,
    any manual or automatic input could trigger a new animation sequence. For example,
25  the movement of the roulette dolly (the marker used by the croupier to mark the
    winning number) in a roulette game or the drawing of a card from a card shoe in a
    card game could trigger a new animation sequence.
    In other embodiments, control inputs to the display may be made for example by
30  automatic dice shaking equipment, or by sensors set in gaming equipment such as
    roulette wheels or in the table itself such as a detector to detect the placing of a bet on
    the betting region of the table. For example, on a Sic Bo table where an automatic

                                             12
   dice shaker is used, an image capture device may capture an image of the shaken dice
   and derive the result of the throw by image processing means. This result may be fed
   as an input of the processor of the control system, which may select an animation to
   display on the basis of the detected result.
 5
   The images displayed on the display panel 6 may be pre-stored video sequences, or
   alternatively may be live feeds, for example from cameras placed to capture images
   of players at the table. Images of, for example, winning players may be shown on the
   display panel 6 in order to encourage participation. As a further alternative, video
10 images showing events remote from the table, such as sports games or reports, may
   be shown on the display panel 6.
   The above embodiments have been described as comprising a display panel which, in
   the case of the embodiment depicted in Figures 1, 2 and 2a, is an LED display panel.
15 Other types of display panel may be used, such as display panels used in flat panel
   television screens (e.g., volatile flat panel displays such as plasma display panels,
   liquid crystal display panels), provided that the display panel can provide images at
   sufficient brightness and clarity to be visible to the players through the table surface,
   e.g. through the cloth and through any diffusion layer between the display panel and
20 the cloth.

                                                13
   Claims:
   1.        A gaming table comprising:
             a playing surface;
             an LED illuminated display panel mounted beneath the playing surface to
 5 display images, the images being visible through the playing surface; and
             a diffuser screen between the display panel and the playing surface.
   2.        A gaming table according to claim 1, wherein the playing surface
   comprises markings delineating regions of the playing surface.
   3.        A gaming table according to claim 1, further comprising a cover sheet
10 positioned between the LED illuminated display panel and the diffuser screen to
   provide a smooth surface underlying the diffuser screen.
   4.        A gaming table according to claim 1, wherein the diffuser screen is
   formed from a synthetic foam material.
   5.        A gaming table according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
15 playing surface is a cloth playing surface formed from a textile, felt or baize
   material.
   6.        An illuminated gaming table system comprising:
             a gaming table according to any one of the preceding claims and further
   comprising:
20           input means for inputting signals indicating events in a game on the
   gaming table; and
             control means responsive to inputs from the input means to control the
   display of images by the display panel.
   7.        A gaming table system according to claim 6, wherein the control means
25 comprises:
             a memory for storing images and image sequences;

                                                14
             a processor operable in response to an input from the input means to:
                   select an image or image sequence for display, and
                   cause the selected image or image sequence to be displayed by the
                   display panel.
 5 8.       A gaming table system according to claim 6 or claim 7, further including
             image capture means operable to provide video images to the control
   means; and
             wherein the control means is operable to cause the video images to be
   displayed by the display panel.
10 9.       A gaming table system according to any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein the
   control means is responsive to input signals from at least one remote device to
   control the display of images.
   10.      A gaming table system according to claim 9, wherein the remote device
   is an automatic dice shaker, a roulette wheel or a card dealing shoe.
15

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
