                                            31
ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to the field of testing and measurement.  In one form the
invention provides an activation apparatus for an electronic assay device comprising: a
sample port cover at one end thereof and; a formation at another end thereof, which is
adapted for operative association with and control of a PCB detection circuit of the
electronic assay device; wherein the activation apparatus, as a whole, is adapted for
removal from one or a combination of the sample port and the PCB detection circuit to
activate the PCB detection circuit and allow access to the sample port.
Figure 4

10
                                E C I L
   LA LFLO AYS iP        T TLIN
                Figure 4

                                                                                                        P1/00/002
                                                                                                  Regulation 3.2B
                                                AUSTRALIA
                                             Patents Act 1990
                                                  ORIGINAL
                              COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                         INNOVATION PATENT
Application No.
Lodged:           15 June 2018
Innovation Title: ACTIVATION       APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR AN ASSAY DEVICE
The following statement is a full description of this innovation, including the best method of performing it
known to the Applicant,

                                                 2
          ACTIVATION APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR AN ASSAY DEVICE
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[001]       This application claims priority to Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
<removed-apn> in the name of LUMOS Diagnostics Pty Ltd (formerly NPLEX Pty Ltd),
which was filed on 15 June 2017, entitled "Activation Apparatus and Method for an Assay
Device" and the specification thereof is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety
and for all purposes.
FIELD OF INVENTION
[002]       The present invention relates to the field of testing and measurement.          In
particular, the present invention relates to a diagnostic device and method for detecting
the presence of a biological analyte.       It will be convenient to hereinafter describe the
invention in relation to a medical immunoassay test, however it should be appreciated
that the present invention is not limited to that use, only.       For example, the present
invention may be implemented in the use of a device for one or a combination of
medical, in-vitro diagnostic, veterinary care, or any industry that is interested in
quantifying biological markers in a sample.
BACKGROUND ART
[003]       Throughout this specification the use of the word "inventor" in singular form
may be taken as reference to one (singular) inventor or more than one (plural) inventor of
the present invention.
[004]       It is to be appreciated that any discussion of documents, devices, acts or
knowledge in this specification is included to explain the context of the present invention.
Further, the discussion throughout this specification comes about due to the realisation
of the inventor and/or the identification of certain related art problems by the inventor.
Moreover, any discussion of material such as documents, devices, acts or knowledge in
this specification is included to explain the context of the invention in terms of the
inventor's knowledge and experience and, accordingly, any such discussion should not
be taken as an admission that any of the material forms part of the prior art base or the
common general knowledge in the relevant art in Australia, or elsewhere, on or before
the priority date of the disclosure and claims herein.

                                               3
[005]      In a typical diagnostic test, lateral flow assays may be employed, and an
example lateral flow test is illustrated in Figure 1. Lateral flow assays are immunoassay
based diagnostic tests that rely on capillary flow of liquid through a membrane containing
a capture reagent. Along the way, a colored detector reagent (conjugate), usually gold
colloid, containing a detector antibody is re-hydrated and flows with the sample through
the membrane. A visual, or at least electronically measurable, result is obtained at the
completion of the test, when lines appear in the viewing/test area.
[006]      Lateral flow assay strips are very sensitive to all kinds of pollutants and
environmental considerations. To ensure their integrity is maintained they need to be
protected from conditions that may comprise one or more of the following:
    " temperature extremes
    " humidity extremes
    e   any contaminating      pollutants; either during    storage or in the application
        environment
[007]      Electronic assay test readers are used to reliably remove human error
associated with detecting the presence or absence of the test line. This can be achieved
by way of a stimulating LED in combination with a detection sensor used to generate an
electronic signal proportional to the intensity of the test line.   This electronic signal is
measured by way of an on-board microprocessor, with the test result displayed to the
operator either quantitatively or qualitatively as would be appreciated by those skilled in
the art.
[008]      In typical use, electronic readers are applied to single and/or multi use end
applications that drive the cost of goods to be as cheap as possible and as such every
component designed into the device should be assessed for criticality and expense. As
such, they are typically battery powered devices, designed to operate from a coin cell
battery or similar and therefore the energy consumed before the reader is required to be
used needs to be minimized to ensure an optimal or at least reasonable shelf life.
[009]      Further, the device should be activated prior to the addition of the sample,
otherwise the test is likely to be compromised. Therefore, to ensure maximum reliability
there needs to be a definitive workflow that is followed by the operator to ensure the

                                              4
reader is activated at the correct time, and before the operator is likely to add the
sample.
[0010]     An example diagnostic device for detecting the presence of an analyte in a
fluid sample is disclosed in US 8,828,329 (Sturman et al), which uses ambient light
sensing to activate the device.     The device disclosed by Sturman et al comprises a
casing having a display, a test strip mounted in the casing, a processor mounted in the
casing, and a first sensor mounted in the casing and operatively coupled to the
processor. The processor is configured to receive a signal from the first sensor when the
device is exposed to ambient light thereby causing the device to become activated. The
device includes a light shield that exerts pressure across a width of the test strip to
prevent fluid channelling along the length of the test strip. The processor is configured to
present an early positive test result reading when a measured value exceeds a
predetermined early reading threshold value at any time after a predetermined early
testing time period. However, Sturman et al requires additional electronics, the battery is
still connected to the analog current measurement circuit during the long periods of
storage prior to testing and, it does not have a method to protect the test strip. The
device of Sturman et al succeeded to the extent it has because although it is using an
additional sensor for reader activation it is a relatively low-cost component.      It is also
activated by removing it from its sealed container which ensures the device is active
when the sample is applied. Sturman et al, requires the device to be housed in a sealed
foil pouch to ensure darkness during operation which is an additional expense in material
and process. Also detection circuitry will be constantly on waiting for a light stimulus
which will be a drain on the battery, reducing shelf life.
[0011]     US 7,799,275 (Duesbury et al) discloses a diagnostic test device comprising
means for sampling a liquid biological sample and means for reacting the sample with at
least one reagent to provide one or more visible indicia.       The device has an optical
detector for detecting the presence of the one or more indicia.            The device also
comprises means for causing at least part of the optical detector to move over the one or
more indicia     Accordingly, physical movement is instigated by sample application to
activate the reader as the sample is being applied.        Duesbury et al requires a moving
part to actuate the test, which is an additional reliability issue, and the battery is still
connected.     Duesbury et al does not have a method to protect the test strip from
contaminants.    There is no known commercial product that incorporates this method,

                                                 5
potentially because of the increased cost and complexity and reduced positional
accuracy.
[0012]      US 9,274,098 (Elder et al) discloses an analyte meter, which is configured to
digitally test for the presence of a test strip in the meter and for the presence of a sample
in the test strip prior to activating an analog current measurement circuit of the meter. A
test strip port connector having a plurality of contacts receives an inserted test strip in
which the contacts electrically connect to electrodes on the test strip for digitally
detecting both the presence of a test strip and a sample added to the test strip. A control
circuit monitoring the contacts maintains the analyte meter in a low power mode until
detecting both the test strip and the sample, whereupon the control circuit activates the
meter and enables an analog analyte measurement circuit. Accordingly, the analyte
meter of Elder et al has sensors on the strip to detect when the strip is inserted as well
as when the sample is applied to the strip. However, as above, elder et al requires
additional electronics, and the battery is remains connected.         Furthermore, Elder et al
does not have a method to protect the test strip.         Moreover, it is considered that the
product of Elder et al would likely not work in single and/or multi use application as the
power requirements would be too inhibitory for a prolonged period of time.
[0013]      US 8,328,719 (Young et al) discloses a meter that includes a user interface
enabling the user to take a specific action, leading them directly to data input options.
The user interface is designed to enable first selected information to be entered by a
user directly after receiving a result and making it more likely to engage a patient by
making it easy and simple to enter important information, which may enable capture of
the information thought to be most pertinent e.g. premeal and postmeal information,
enhancing the understanding by patients and their carers of the patient's control. Display
and buttons for turning the device on and running the test are provided. However, again
Young et al requires additional electronics, the battery remains connected, and it does
not have a method to protect the test strip. There is no way to ensure the reader is
active when the sample is applied. Furthermore, this application would likely not work in
the single/multi use application as the power requirements would be too inhibitory for a
prolonged period of time.
[0014]      US publication No. 2016/0025670 (O'Reilly) discloses individually packaged
test devices and methods of manufacturing such individually packaged test devices,

                                                6
along with use of such individually packaged test devices, and test device cards
comprising two or more test devices.          In particular, O'Reilly discloses a test device
comprising: a test strip having first and second major surfaces and comprising: a
proximal portion for bearing contacts for a metering device, an intermediate portion for
receiving a sample comprising a test area on the first major surface, the test area
comprising at least one test component; a separable distal portion; and in which the test
device further comprises: a cover leaf (optionally a removable cover leaf) having a
portion (optionally a removable portion) extending over at least part of one of the major
surfaces of the test strip so as to seal the test area and having a non-removable portion
attached to the separable distal portion of the test strip. Essentially, O'Reilly discloses a
method for covering the test area to restrict moisture ingress but again, it requires
additional parts to activate the reader and the battery remains connected at all times.
[0015]     The preceding discussion of background art is intended to facilitate an
understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is not an acknowledgement
or admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of the common general
knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0016]     It is an object of the embodiments described herein to overcome or alleviate at
least one of the above noted drawbacks of prior art systems or to at least provide a
useful alternative to prior or related art systems.
[0017]     In a first aspect of embodiments, there is provided an activation apparatus for
an electronic assay device comprising:
           a sample port cover at one end thereof and;
           a formation at another end thereof, which is adapted for operative association
with and control of a PCB detection circuit of the electronic assay device;
           wherein the activation apparatus, as a whole, is adapted for removal from one
or a combination of the sample port and the PCB detection circuit to activate the PCB
detection circuit and allow access to the sample port.

                                               7
[0018]      The formation at an end of the activation apparatus may be adapted for
operative association with and control of the PCB detection circuit by way of one or a
combination of:
            attenuating energisation of the PCB detection circuit;
            isolating the PCB detection circuit from a power source of the PCB detection
circuit
            deactivating the PCB detection circuit; and
            holding the PCB detection circuit in one of an unpowered or low-power state.
[0019]      Preferably, the formation comprises one end of an integral strip of material
which is adapted to conform to the construction of an electronic assay device.        The
formation may also be adapted to connect to or be inserted in the PCB detection circuit
of the electronic assay device.
[0020]      In another aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided an
activation apparatus for an electronic assay device comprising:
            a sample port cover at one end thereof and;
            an insert at another end thereof, which is adapted to isolate a PCB detection
circuit from a power source of the PCB detection circuit;
            wherein the activation apparatus, as a whole, is adapted for removal from one
or a combination of the sample port and the PCB detection circuit to activate the PCB
circuit and allow access to the sample port.
[0021]      In preferred forms the apparatus comprises material that is one or a
combination of opaque and electrically insulating.        Furthermore, the apparatus may
comprise an integral strip adapted for removal from the electronic assay device.
Preferably, the integral strip is adapted to be removed by a user of the electronic assay
device.    The electronic assay device may comprise a diagnostic reader in preferred
embodiments.
[0022]      In another aspect of embodiments there is provided a method of activating an
electronic assay device comprising the steps of:

                                                8
            with an integral strip of material,
                    covering a sample port of the assay device and,
                    controlling a PCB detection circuit of the assay device; and,
            removing the integral strip of material from the assay device to activate the
PCB detection circuit and allow access to the sample port prior to applying a sample to
the assay device.
[0023]      In the above method, the step of controlling the PCB detection circuit may
comprise one or a combination of:
            attenuating energisation of the PCB detection circuit;
            isolating the PCB detection circuit from a power source of the PCB detection
circuit;
            deactivating the PCB detection circuit
            holding the PCB detection circuit in one of an unpowered or low-power state.
[0024]      In another aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided a method
of activating an electronic assay device comprising the steps of:
            covering a sample port of the assay device and isolating a PCB detection
circuit of the assay device from a power source of the PCB detection circuit with an
integral strip of material;
            removing the integral strip of material from the assay device to activate the
PCB circuit and allow access to the sample port prior to applying a sample to the assay
device.
[0025]      In preferred embodiments for single/multi use electronic assay reader devices,
the invention uses a simple, cheap, integral plastic tab to serve multiple functional roles.
It preserves battery life, facilitates activation of the reader on demand, mandates a
correct assay workflow and protects the sensitive assay strip from damaging
environmental extremes and degrading contaminants.

                                                9
[0026]     Embodiments of the present invention solve the sample port contamination
problem, the battery power consumption problem, the reader activation problem as well
as the workflow problem by way of a simple, cheap, plastic pull-tab. Said pull-tab is
designed and positioned to provide both an electrical insulation to disconnect the battery
from   the    circuit,  and   as   a  cover    to  protect  the  sample    port   from   any
contaminants/pollutants or humidity variations within the device.      Further, the pull tab
needs to be removed to enable the operator to add the sample to the sample port.
Removal of the pull tab facilitates electrical connection of the battery to the PCB and
therefore activates the reader, in effect ensuring the correct workflow steps are followed.
[0027]     Other aspects and preferred forms are disclosed in the specification and/or
defined in the appended claims, forming a part of the description of the invention.
[0028]     In essence, embodiments of the present invention stem from the realization
that prior art includes no description or implementation for a single, very low cost,
solution to each of the problems of on-demand device activation, battery power
preservation, assay integrity preservation and deterministic workflow control. Although
each of these problems may be addressed with specific solutions individually, as a
combination there is no single solution that addresses them all.
[0029]     Further scope of applicability of embodiments of the present invention will
become apparent from the detailed description given hereinafter. However, it should be
understood that the detailed description and specific examples, while indicating preferred
embodiments of the invention, are given by way of illustration only, since various
changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the disclosure herein will
become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0030]     Further disclosure, objects, advantages and aspects of preferred and other
embodiments of the present invention may be better understood by those skilled in the
relevant art by reference to the following description of embodiments taken in conjunction
with the accompanying drawings, which are given by way of illustration only, and thus
are not limitative of the disclosure herein, and in which:
       Figure 1 illustrates a conventional diagnostic test based on lateral flow assays;

                                               10
        Figure 2 is a perspective view of an electronic assay device incorporating an
activation apparatus in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention;
        Figure 3 is a perspective view of the electronic assay device of Figure 2
incorporating an activation apparatus in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the
invention showing the activation apparatus in the removed state;
        Figure 4 is a side component view of an electronic assay device incorporating an
activation apparatus in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0031]      In a preferred embodiment, the design of an electronic assay device includes
an electronic board design that facilitates the operation of the activation apparatus as
described herein.       The positioning of the sample port relative to the battery itself or
indeed relative to an appropriate feature used to insulate the battery is sufficient to
enable the use of the invention that will serve multiple functional roles.       It preserves
battery life, facilitates activation of the reader on demand, mandates a correct assay
workflow and protects the sensitive assay strip from damaging environmental extremes
and degrading contaminants.
[0032]      The images of Figure 4 highlight the key components of the electronic assay
reader. The strip part referenced with 10 in all images of Figures 2 to 4 identifies the
preferred embodiment of the invention in its most basic form.           Removal of the strip
(notionally to the left in each image) results in the spring component on the electrical pcb
making contact with the battery and therefore activating the pcb.        Removal of the strip
also allows access to the sample port. This ensures that the pcb is in an activated state
prior to the sample being applied to the sample port.
[0033]      A small coin cell or equivalent battery may be used in the assay device with
limited capacity. It is important that parasitic current draw is minimized during storage to
maximize shelf life. The preferred embodiment in the form of a cover member electrically
insulates or isolates the battery from the electrical circuit and therefore provides the best
method of conserving energy possible.         As well as preserving battery life, the cover
member also protects the sensitive assay strip from pollutants and humidity variations,

                                               11
activates the reader on demand, and ensures the correct workflow by restricting the
addition of the sample prior to reader activation.
[0034]      If the sample is applied by the operator to the test strip prior to the reader
being activated, the test strip is likely to be compromised and the test invalidated. By
covering the sample port with the activating apparatus of an embodiment of the
invention, the operator cannot apply the sample out of the required order because in
removing the activating apparatus cover, the reader is activated. As well as preserving
battery life, the cover member also protects the sensitive assay strip from pollutants and
humidity variations, activates the reader on demand, and ensures the correct workflow
by restricting the addition of the sample prior to reader activation.
[0035]      Lateral    flow strips are very sensitive to all       kinds of pollutants and
environmental considerations. Therefore it is an important function of the cover member
to seal the sample port and protect the strip. The cover member also serves the dual
function of disconnecting the battery from the circuit, thereby preserving battery life and
proving a safe method of activating the test. Workflow is also physically mandated by
preventing the addition of the sample without first activating the reader.
[0036]      Preferred embodiments of the invention provide a very cheap device, so every
component is significant to some extent. In this way a single, extremely cheap, part
solves multiple problems with the one solution. This single part is both cheap (fractions
of a cent) and simple.
[0037]      The cover member could completely seal the sample port, as well as the gap
in the plastics it transitions through to disconnect the battery; thereby providing an
hermetic seal.      It may also be combined with a desiccant inside of the housing to
maintain low humidity environment in the presence of a low leakage rate.
[0038]      The cover member may also disconnect the battery directly, or a feature that is
included on the PCB within the device to facilitate the disconnection of the battery. For
example a metal spring-form contact as shown in Figure 4.
[0039]      Alternatively, there is the option of not completely disconnecting battery. The
device may remain always powered in a low power mode during storage. Pursuant to
this, removal of the cover member may form an electrical contact to wake up the device
from the low power mode. Although some battery consumption may be required during

                                             12
storage in this configuration, the power consumption is reduced.          In this respect, in
comparison over the prior art of Sturman et al the power consumption is reduced
because the PCB detection circuit is not required to be continuously monitoring for a
change to activate the device. As a result, shelf life is improved.
[0040]     Accordingly, a formation at an end of the cover may be provided, which is
adapted for operative association with and control of a PCB detection circuit of the
electronic assay device, wherein the activation apparatus, as a whole, is adapted for
removal from one or a combination of the sample port and the PCB detection circuit to
activate the PCB detection circuit and allow access to the sample port. The formation
may be adapted for operative association with and control of the PCB detection circuit by
way of one or a combination of: attenuating energisation of the PCB detection circuit;
isolating the PCB detection circuit from a power source of the PCB detection circuit;
deactivating the PCB detection circuit; and holding the PCB detection circuit in one of an
unpowered or low-power state.       Preferably, the formation comprises one end of an
integral strip of material comprising the cover and which is adapted to conform to the
construction of an electronic assay device.       The formation may also be adapted to
connect to or be inserted in the PCB detection circuit of the electronic assay device.
[0041]     The cover member may cover a number of sample ports if multiple tests are
included.
[0042]     The    cover member      may   be designed       to  also  act   as the sample
collection/preparing mechanism to harvest the sample of interest and facilitate putting it
into the sample port. For example, a swab, tongue scraper, etc.
[0043]     The cover member may include information specific to the type of test that is
being run and/or specific warnings for that test
[0044]     The cover member may incorporate a humidity indicator / chemical blotting
paper in the tab to indicate compromised sealing of packaging, i.e. moisture ingress.
This may be similar to the indicators found in electronics packaging.
[0045]     The cover member may be manufactured out of heat sensitive (colour
changing) tape that displays an instruction (word/symbol/warning) when temperature is
outside of the operating temperature range.

                                              13
[0046]     The cover member may include a stiffener/feature/key to one end of the tab,
which can later be inserted into a recess in the plastic case to crack it open; particularly
to help battery removal and safe disposal after use.
[0047]     The cover member may incorporate a feature such that it's removal or
actuation could act as a switch to activate Bluetooth and make the device discoverable.
[0048]     The cover member may incorporate a custom insignia such as, for example, a
barcode or 2D QR code on the tab, which could be used to pair the device via Bluetooth
to a smart phone.
[0049]     The cover member may incorporate the battery as part of its manufacture such
that moving it in one orientation results in connection of the battery and activation of the
reader. Once testing is complete, the cover member may be completely removed, taking
the battery at the same time and facilitating safe disposal.
[0050]     User experience prototypes of a reader device have been provided with pull
tab designs and battery disconnect feature. Informal UX trials have been conducted that
found that users were comfortable using the device and correctly removed the pull tab to
activate the reader prior to applying the sample. It has been confirmed that the device
powers on correctly upon removal of pull tab.
[0051]     In an exemplary embodiment, a basic workflow may be employed as follows:
1) Remove product from packaging
2) Collect sample as per instructions for use
3) Remove pull tab to activate device (Steps 2 and 3 may be reversed depending on the
    method of sample collection, for example, direct urine sample collection)
4) Confirm device has activated and is ready for use via status indicator
    a) Device performs self-diagnostic tests including but not limited to sufficient battery
       level, presence/absence of strip, LED/photodiode output functional (maximum
       detection level), LED/photodiode disables correctly (minimum detection level),
       absence     of excessive     ambient     light,  integrity of  light barriers, check
       microprocessor internals, integration capacitor shorting switch operation.     Other
       means for testing the viability of the strip / reader combination may be included as
       would be appreciated by the person skilled in the art

                                               14
    b) Device performs pre-test background measurements on dry strip by applying
        excitation and measuring reflected light level
    c) Establish baseline levels for each test line, control line and background location
    d) Display indication that test is ready to run
5) Apply sample to reader sample port
6) Test is automatically run and result is displayed after approximately 5-10 minutes to
    the user on the results display.
    a) Periodic measurements taken to identify a change from background signifying
        sample application and start of test
    b) Begin test timer count
    c) Measure test line absorbance by applying excitation and measuring reflected light
        level
    d) Measure background absorbance adjacent to the test line
    e) Measure control line absorbance
    f) If control line reaches threshold level before test time expires, final assay
        determination for each test line can be made
    g) Apply algorithm to acquired data for assay result determination
    h) Display result
    i) Permanent shutdown
[0052]     While    this invention   has   been    described    in connection  with specific
embodiments thereof, it will be understood that it is capable of further modification(s).
This application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention
following in general, the principles of the invention and including such departures from
the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to
which the invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features
hereinbefore set forth.
[0053]     As the present invention may be embodied in several forms without departing
from the spirit of the essential characteristics of the invention, it should be understood
that the above described embodiments are not to limit the present invention unless
otherwise specified, but rather should be construed broadly within the spirit and scope of
the invention as defined in the appended claims. The described embodiments are to be
considered in all respects as illustrative only and not restrictive.

                                              15
[0054]     Various modifications and equivalent arrangements are intended to be
included within the spirit and scope of the invention and appended claims. Therefore,
the specific embodiments are to be understood to be illustrative of the many ways in
which the principles of the present invention may be practiced. In the following claims,
any means-plus-function clauses are intended to cover structures as performing the
defined function and not only structural equivalents, but also equivalent structures. For
example, although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail
employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together, whereas a screw
employs a helical surface to secure wooden parts together, in the environment of
fastening wooden parts, a nail and a screw are equivalent structures.
The following sections I - VII provide a guide to interpreting the present specification.
1. Terms
[0055]     The term "product" means any machine, manufacture and/or composition of
matter, unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0056]     The term "process" means any process, algorithm, method or the like, unless
expressly specified otherwise.
[0057]     Each process (whether called a method, algorithm or otherwise) inherently
includes one or more steps, and therefore all references to a "step" or "steps" of a
process have an inherent antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term 'process' or
a like term. Accordingly, any reference in a claim to a 'step' or 'steps' of a process has
sufficient antecedent basis.
[0058]     The term "invention" and the like mean "the one or more inventions disclosed
in this specification", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0059]     The      terms    "an   embodiment",     "embodiment",     "embodiments",      "the
embodiment", "the embodiments", "one or more embodiments", "some embodiments",
"certain embodiments", "one embodiment", "another embodiment" and the like mean
"one or more (but not all) embodiments of the disclosed invention(s)", unless expressly
specified otherwise.

                                              16
[0060]     The term "variation" of an invention means an embodiment of the invention,
unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0061]     A reference to "another embodiment" in describing an embodiment does not
imply that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment
(e.g., an embodiment described before the referenced embodiment), unless expressly
specified otherwise.
[0062]     The terms "including", "comprising" and variations thereof mean "including but
not limited to", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0063]     The terms "a", "an" and "the" mean "one or more", unless expressly specified
otherwise.
[0064]     The term "plurality" means "two or more", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0065]     The term "herein" means "in the present specification, including anything which
may be incorporated by reference", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0066]     The phrase "at least one of, when such phrase modifies a plurality of things
(such as an enumerated list of things), means any combination of one or more of those
things, unless expressly specified otherwise. For example, the phrase "at least one of a
widget, a car and a wheel" means either (i) a widget, (ii) a car, (iii) a wheel, (iv) a widget
and a car, (v) a widget and a wheel, (vi) a car and a wheel, or (vii) a widget, a car and a
wheel. The phrase "at least one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things,
does not mean "one of each of" the plurality of things.
[0067]     Numerical terms such as "one", "two", etc. when used as cardinal numbers to
indicate quantity of something (e.g., one widget, two widgets), mean the quantity
indicated by that numerical term, but do not mean at least the quantity indicated by that
numerical term. For example, the phrase "one widget" does not mean "at least one
widget", and therefore the phrase "one widget" does not cover, e.g., two widgets.
[0068]     The phrase "based on" does not mean "based only on", unless expressly
specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "based on" describes both "based only
on" and "based at least on". The phrase "based at least on" is equivalent to the phrase
"based at least in part on".

                                               17
[0069]     The term "represent" and like terms are not exclusive, unless expressly
specified otherwise. For example, the term "represents" do not mean "represents only",
unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "the data represents a
credit card number' describes both "the data represents only a credit card number' and
"the data represents a credit card number and the data also represents something else".
[0070]     The term "whereby" is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of
words that express only the intended result, objective or consequence of something that
is previously and explicitly recited. Thus, when the term "whereby" is used in a claim, the
clause or other words that the term "whereby" modifies do not establish specific further
limitations of the claim or otherwise restricts the meaning or scope of the claim.
[0071]     The term "e.g." and like terms mean "for example", and thus does not limit the
term or phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (e.g.,
instructions, a data structure) over the Internet", the term "e.g." explains that
"instructions" are an example of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet, and
also explains that "a data structure" is an example of "data" that the computer may send
over the Internet. However, both "instructions" and "a data structure" are merely
examples of "data", and other things besides "instructions" and "a data structure" can be
"data".
[0072]     The term "i.e." and like terms mean "that is", and thus limits the term or phrase
it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (i.e., instructions)
over the Internet", the term "i.e." explains that "instructions" are the "data" that the
computer sends over the Internet.
[0073]     Any given numerical range shall include whole and fractions of numbers within
the range. For example, the range "1 to 10" shall be interpreted to specifically include
whole numbers between 1 and 10 (e.g., 2, 3,4, . . . 9) and non-whole numbers (e.g., 1.1,
1.2 ,... 1.9).
II. Determining
[0074]     The term "determining" and grammatical variants thereof (e.g., to determine a
price, determining a value, determine an object which meets a certain criterion) is used in
an extremely broad sense. The term "determining" encompasses a wide variety of
actions and therefore "determining" can include calculating, computing, processing,

                                               18
deriving, investigating, looking up (e.g., looking up in a table, a database or another data
structure), ascertaining and the like. Also, "determining" can include receiving (e.g.,
receiving information), accessing (e.g., accessing data in a memory) and the like. Also,
"determining" can include resolving, selecting, choosing, establishing, and the like.
[0075]       The term "determining" does not imply certainty or absolute precision, and
therefore "determining" can include estimating, extrapolating, predicting, guessing and
the like.
[0076]       The term "determining" does not imply that mathematical processing must be
performed, and does not imply that numerical methods must be used, and does not imply
that an algorithm or process is used.
[0077]       The term "determining" does not imply that any particular device must be used.
For example, a computer need not necessarily perform the determining.
Ill. Indication
[0078]       The term "indication" is used in an extremely broad sense. The term
"indication" may, among other things, encompass a sign, symptom, or token of
something else.
[0079]       The term "indication" may be used to refer to any indicia and/or other
information indicative of or associated with a subject, item, entity, and/or other object
and/or idea.
[0080]       As used herein, the phrases "information indicative of' and "indicia" may be
used to refer to any information that represents, describes, and/or is otherwise
associated with a related entity, subject, or object.
[0081]       Indicia of information may include, for example, a symbol, a code, a reference,
a link, a signal, an identifier, and/or any combination thereof and/or any other informative
representation associated with the information.
[0082]       In some embodiments, indicia of information (or indicative of the information)
may be or include the information itself and/or any portion or component of the
information. In some embodiments, an indication may include a request, a solicitation, a
broadcast, and/or any other form of information gathering and/or dissemination.

                                               19
IV. Forms of Sentences
[0083]     Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as more
than one of a feature (e.g., a limitation such as "at least one widget" covers one widget
as well as more than one widget), and where in a second claim that depends on the first
claim, the second claim uses a definite article "the" to refer to the limitation (e.g., "the
widget"), this does not imply that the first claim covers only one of the feature, and this
does not imply that the second claim covers only one of the feature (e.g., "the widget"
can cover both one widget and more than one widget).
[0084]     When an ordinal number (such as "first", "second", "third" and so on) is used
as an adjective before a term, that ordinal number is used (unless expressly specified
otherwise) merely to indicate a particular feature, such as to distinguish that particular
feature from another feature that is described by the same term or by a similar term. For
example, a "first widget" may be so named merely to distinguish it from, e.g., a "second
widget". Thus, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the
term "widget" does not indicate any other relationship between the two widgets, and
likewise does not indicate any other characteristics of either or both widgets. For
example, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term
"widget" (1) does not indicate that either widget comes before or after any other in order
or location; (2) does not indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any
other in time; and (3) does not indicate that either widget ranks above or below any
other, as in importance or quality. In addition, the mere usage of ordinal numbers does
not define a numerical limit to the features identified with the ordinal numbers. For
example, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term
"widget" does not indicate that there must be no more than two widgets.
[0085]     When a single device or article is described           herein, more than one
device/article (whether or not they cooperate) may alternatively be used in place of the
single device/article that is described. Accordingly, the functionality that is described as
being possessed by a device may alternatively be possessed by more than one
device/article (whether or not they cooperate).
[0086]     Similarly, where more than one device or article is described herein (whether
or not they cooperate), a single device/article may alternatively be used in place of the
more than one device or article that is described. For example, a plurality of computer-

                                               20
based devices may be substituted with a single computer-based device. Accordingly, the
various functionality that is described as being possessed by more than one device or
article may alternatively be possessed by a single device/article.
[0087]      The functionality and/or the features of a single device that is described may
be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described but are not
explicitly described as having such functionality/features. Thus, other embodiments need
not include the described device itself, but rather can include the one or more other
devices which would, in those other embodiments, have such functionality/features.
V. Disclosed Examples and Terminology Are Not Limiting
[0088]      Neither the Title nor the Abstract in this specification is intended to be taken as
limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention(s). The title and headings of
sections provided in the specification are for convenience only, and are not to be taken
as limiting the disclosure in any way.
[0089]      Numerous embodiments are described in the present application, and are
presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not, and are not
intended to be, limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention(s) are widely
applicable to numerous embodiments, as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of
ordinary skill in the art will recognise that the disclosed invention(s) may be practised
with various modifications and alterations, such as structural, logical, software, and
electrical modifications. Although particular features of the disclosed invention(s) may be
described with reference to one or more particular embodiments and/or drawings, it
should be understood that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more
particular embodiments or drawings with reference to which they are described, unless
expressly specified otherwise.
[0090]      The present disclosure is not a literal description of all embodiments of the
invention(s). Also, the present disclosure is not a listing of features of the invention(s)
which must be present in all embodiments.
[0091]      Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be in
continuous communication with each other, unless expressly specified otherwise. On the
contrary, such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable, and
may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example, a machine in

                                              21
communication with another machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other
machine for long period of time (e.g. weeks at a time). In addition, devices that are in
communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or
more intermediaries.
[0092]      A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not
imply that all or even any of such components/features are required. On the contrary, a
variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible
embodiments of the present invention(s). Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no
component/feature is essential or required.
[0093]      Although process steps, operations, algorithms or the like may be described in
a particular sequential order, such processes may be configured to work in different
orders. In other words, any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described
does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order.
The steps of processes described herein may be performed in any order practical.
Further, some steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or
implied as occurring non-simultaneously (e.g., because one step is described after the
other step). Moreover, the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not
imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications
thereto, does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to
the invention(s), and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred.
[0094]      Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps, that
does not imply that all or any of the steps are preferred, essential or required. Various
other embodiments within the scope of the described invention(s) include other
processes that omit some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise specified
explicitly, no step is essential or required.
[0095]      Although a process may be described singly or without reference to other
products or methods, in an embodiment the process may interact with other products or
methods. For example, such interaction may include linking one business model to
another business model. Such interaction may be provided to enhance the flexibility or
desirability of the process.

                                             22
[0096]     Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components,
aspects, qualities, characteristics and/or features, that does not indicate that any or all of
the plurality are preferred, essential or required. Various other embodiments within the
scope of the described invention(s) include other products that omit some or all of the
described plurality.
[0097]     An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not
imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive, unless expressly specified
otherwise. Likewise, an enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered)
does not imply that any or all of the items are comprehensive of any category, unless
expressly specified otherwise. For example, the enumerated list "a computer, a laptop, a
PDA" does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are mutually exclusive
and does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are comprehensive of any
category.
[0098]     An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not
imply that any or all of the items are equivalent to each other or readily substituted for
each other.
[0099]     All embodiments are illustrative, and do not imply that the invention or any
embodiments were made or performed, as the case may be.
VI. Computing
[00100]    It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various
processes described herein may be implemented by, e.g., appropriately programmed
general purpose computers, special purpose computers and computing devices.
Typically a processor (e.g., one or more microprocessors, one or more micro-controllers,
one or more digital signal processors) will receive instructions (e.g., from a memory or
like device), and execute those instructions, thereby performing one or more processes
defined by those instructions.
[00101]    A "processor" means one or more microprocessors, central processing units
(CPUs), computing devices, micro-controllers, digital signal processors, or like devices or
any combination thereof.

                                            23
[00102]    Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of an apparatus for
performing the process. The apparatus that performs the process can include, e.g., a
processor and those input devices and output devices that are appropriate to perform the
process.
[00103]    Further, programs that implement such methods (as well as other types of
data) may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media (e.g., computer readable
media) in a number of manners. In some embodiments, hard-wired circuitry or custom
hardware may be used in place of, or in combination with, some or all of the software
instructions that can implement the processes of various embodiments. Thus, various
combinations of hardware and software may be used instead of software only.
[00104]    The term "computer-readable medium" refers to any medium, a plurality of the
same, or a combination of different media, that participate in providing data (e.g.,
instructions, data structures) which may be read by a computer, a processor or a like
device. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile
media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example,
optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include dynamic
random access memory         (DRAM),   which typically constitutes the main memory.
Transmission media include coaxial cables, copper wire and fibre optics, including the
wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may
include or convey acoustic waves, light waves and electromagnetic emissions, such as
those generated during radio frequency (RF) and infra-red (IR) data communications.
Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a
flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, DVD,
any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with
patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH-EEPROM, any other memory
chip or cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from
which a computer can read.
[00105]    Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying data
(e.g. sequences of instructions) to a processor. For example, data may be (i) delivered
from RAM to a processor; (ii) carried over a wireless transmission medium; (iii) formatted
and/or transmitted according to numerous formats, standards or protocols, such as
Ethernet (or IEEE 802.3), SAP, ATP, Bluetooth T M , and TCP/IP, TDMA, CDMA, and 3G;

                                              24
and/or (iv) encrypted to ensure privacy or prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well
known in the art.
[00106]     Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of a computer
readable medium storing a program for performing the process. The computer-readable
medium can store (in any appropriate format) those program elements which are
appropriate to perform the method.
[00107]     Just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all
the   described     steps   are   required,  embodiments     of   an   apparatus  include   a
computer/computing device operable to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the
described process.
[00108]     Likewise, just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate
that all the described steps are required, embodiments of a computer-readable medium
storing a program or data structure include a computer-readable medium storing a
program that, when executed, can cause a processor to perform some (but not
necessarily all) of the described process.
[00109]    Where databases are described, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in
the art that (i) alternative database structures to those described may be readily
employed, and (ii) other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed.
Any illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative
arrangements      for  stored   representations   of information.    Any  number    of  other
arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by, e.g., tables illustrated in
drawings or elsewhere. Similarly, any illustrated entries of the databases represent
exemplary information only; one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the
number and content of the entries can be different from those described herein. Further,
despite any depiction of the databases as tables, other formats (including relational
databases, object-based models and/or distributed databases) could be used to store
and manipulate the data types described herein. Likewise, object methods or behaviours
of a database can be used to implement various processes, such as the described
herein. In addition, the databases may, in a known manner, be stored locally or remotely
from a device which accesses data in such a database.

                                               25
[00110]     Various embodiments can be configured to work in a network environment
including a computer that is in communication (e.g., via a communications network) with
one or more devices. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or
indirectly, via any wired or wireless medium (e.g. the Internet, LAN, WAN or Ethernet,
Token Ring, a telephone line, a cable line, a radio channel, an optical communications
line,   commercial    on-line   service  providers,   bulletin  board systems,   a satellite
communications link, a combination of any of the above). Each of the devices may
themselves comprise computers or other computing devices that are adapted to
communicate with the computer. Any number and type of devices may be in
communication with the computer.
[00111]     In an embodiment, a server computer or centralised authority may not be
necessary or desirable. For example, the present invention may, in an embodiment, be
practised on one or more devices without a central authority. In such an embodiment,
any functions described herein as performed by the server computer or data described
as stored on the server computer may instead be performed by or stored on one or more
such devices.
[00112]     Where a process is described, in an embodiment the process may operate
without any user intervention. In another embodiment, the process includes some human
intervention (e.g., a step is performed by or with the assistance of a human).
[00113]     It should be noted that where the terms "server", "secure server or similar
terms are used herein, a communication device is described that may be used in a
communication system, unless the context otherwise requires, and should not be
construed to limit the present invention to any particular communication device type.
Thus, a communication device may include, without limitation, a bridge, router, bridge
router (router), switch, node, or other communication device, which may or may not be
secure.
[00114]     It should also be noted that where a flowchart is used herein to demonstrate
various aspects of the invention, it should not be construed to limit the present invention
to any particular logic flow or logic implementation.          The described logic may be
partitioned into different logic blocks (e.g., programs, modules, functions, or subroutines)
without changing the overall results or otherwise departing from the true scope of the
invention.     Often, logic elements may be added, modified, omitted, performed in a

                                              26
different order, or implemented using different logic constructs (e.g., logic gates, looping
primitives, conditional logic, and other logic constructs) without changing the overall
results or otherwise departing from the true scope of the invention.
[00115]     Various embodiments of the invention may be embodied in many different
forms,    including  computer    program    logic for  use   with  a   processor    (e.g., a
microprocessor, microcontroller, digital signal processor, or general purpose computer
and for that matter, any commercial processor may be used to implement the
embodiments of the invention either as a single processor, serial or parallel set of
processors in the system and, as such, examples of commercial processors include, but
are not limited to Merced TM , Pentium    TM,  Pentium IITM, XeonTM, CeleronTM, Pentium
ProTM, EfficeonTM, AthlonTM, AMDTM and the like), programmable logic for use with a
programmable logic device (e.g., a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) or other
PLD), discrete components, integrated circuitry (e.g., an Application Specific Integrated
Circuit (ASIC)), or any other means including any combination thereof. In an exemplary
embodiment of the present invention, predominantly all of the communication between
users and the server is implemented as a set of computer program instructions that is
converted into a computer executable form, stored as such in a computer readable
medium, and executed by a microprocessor under the control of an operating system.
[00116]     Computer program logic implementing all or part of the functionality where
described herein may be embodied in various forms, including a source code form, a
computer executable form, and various intermediate forms (e.g., forms generated by an
assembler, compiler, linker, or locator). Source code may include a series of computer
program instructions implemented in any of various programming languages (e.g., an
object code, an assembly language, or a high-level language such as Fortran, C, C++,
JAVA, or HTML.       Moreover, there are hundreds of available computer languages that
may be used to implement embodiments of the invention, among the more common
being Ada; Algol; APL; awk; Basic; C; C++; Conol; Delphi; Eiffel; Euphoria; Forth;
Fortran; HTML; Icon; Java; Javascript; Lisp; Logo; Mathematica; MatLab; Miranda;
Modula-2; Oberon; Pascal; Perl; PL/I; Prolog; Python; Rexx; SAS; Scheme; sed; Simula;
Smalltalk; Snobol; SQL; Visual Basic; Visual C++; Linux and XML.) for use with various
operating systems or operating environments.        The source code may define and use
various data structures and communication messages. The source code may be in a

                                              27
computer executable form (e.g., via an interpreter), or the source code may be converted
(e.g., via a translator, assembler, or compiler) into a computer executable form.
[00117]     The computer program may be fixed in any form (e.g., source code form,
computer executable form, or an intermediate form) either permanently or transitorily in a
tangible storage medium, such as a semiconductor memory device (e.g, a RAM, ROM,
PROM, EEPROM, or Flash-Programmable RAM), a magnetic memory device (e.g., a
diskette or fixed disk), an optical memory device (e.g., a CD-ROM or DVD-ROM), a PC
card (e.g., PCMCIA card), or other memory device. The computer program may be fixed
in any form in a signal that is transmittable to a computer using any of various
communication technologies, including, but in no way limited to, analog technologies,
digital technologies, optical technologies, wireless technologies (e.g.,        Bluetooth),
networking technologies, and inter-networking technologies. The computer program may
be distributed in any form as a removable storage medium with accompanying printed or
electronic documentation (e.g., shrink wrapped software), preloaded with a computer
system (e.g., on system ROM or fixed disk), or distributed from a server or electronic
bulletin board over the communication system (e.g., the Internet or World Wide Web).
[00118]     Hardware logic (including programmable logic for use with a programmable
logic device) implementing all or part of the functionality where described herein may be
designed using traditional manual methods, or may be designed, captured, simulated, or
documented electronically using various tools, such as Computer Aided Design (CAD), a
hardware description language (e.g., VHDL or AHDL), or a PLD programming language
(e.g., PALASM, ABEL, or CUPL). Hardware logic may also be incorporated into display
screens for implementing embodiments of the invention and which may be segmented
display screens, analogue display screens, digital display screens, CRTs, LED screens,
Plasma screens, liquid crystal diode screen, and the like.
[00119]     Programmable logic may be fixed either permanently or transitorily in a
tangible storage medium, such as a semiconductor memory device (e.g., a RAM, ROM,
PROM, EEPROM, or Flash-Programmable RAM), a magnetic memory device (e.g., a
diskette or fixed disk), an optical memory device (e.g., a CD-ROM or DVD-ROM), or
other memory device.         The programmable logic may be fixed in a signal that is
transmittable to a computer using any of various communication technologies, including,
but in no way limited to, analog technologies, digital technologies, optical technologies,

                                              28
wireless technologies (e.g., Bluetooth), networking technologies, and internetworking
technologies.     The programmable logic may be distributed as a removable storage
medium with accompanying printed or electronic documentation (e.g., shrink wrapped
software), preloaded with a computer system (e.g., on system ROM or fixed disk), or
distributed from a server or electronic bulletin board over the communication system
(e.g., the Internet or World Wide Web).
[00120]     "Comprises/comprising"      and   "includes/including"   when    used    in  this
specification is taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or
components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other
features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof. Thus, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims, the words 'comprise',
'comprising', 'includes', 'including' and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense
as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including,
but not limited to".

                                               29
CLAIMS
1.       An activation apparatus for an electronic assay device comprising:
         a sample port cover at one end thereof and;
         a formation at another end thereof, which is adapted for operative association with
and control of a PCB detection circuit of the electronic assay device;
         wherein the activation apparatus, as a whole, is adapted for removal from one or a
combination of the sample port and the PCB detection circuit to activate the PCB
detection circuit and allow access to the sample port.
2.       An activation apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the formation is adapted for
operative association with and control of the PCB detection circuit by way of one or a
combination of:
         attenuating energisation of the PCB detection circuit;
         isolating the PCB detection circuit from a power source of the PCB detection
circuit;
         deactivating the PCB detection circuit;
         holding the PCB detection circuit in one of an unpowered or low-power state.
3.       An activation apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the formation is
adapted to connect to or be inserted in the PCB detection circuit of the electronic assay
device.
4.       An activation apparatus for an electronic assay device comprising:
         a sample port cover at one end thereof and;
         an insert at another end thereof, which is adapted to isolate a PCB detection
circuit from a power source of the PCB detection circuit;
         wherein the activation apparatus, as a whole, is adapted for removal from one or a
combination of the sample port and the PCB detection circuit to activate the PCB circuit
and allow access to the sample port.
5.       A method of activating an electronic assay device comprising the steps of:

                                             30
        covering a sample port of the assay device and isolating a PCB detection circuit of
the assay device from a power source of the PCB detection circuit with an integral strip
of material;
        removing the integral strip of material from the assay device to activate the PCB
circuit and allow access to the sample port prior to applying a sample to the assay
device.

                     1/2
<removed-date>
                       Viewing/test area
<removed-apn>
                   Figure 1
              10
                   Figure 2
              10
                   Figure 3

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           10
                                           2/2
Figure 4

