                                                ABSTRACT
        A crankshaft bearing support structure includes a cylinder block having a first holding
portion; a first plain bearing held by the first holding portion of the cylinder block; a crank cap
fastened to the cylinder block, the crank cap having a second holding portion; a second plain
bearing held by the second holding portion of the crank cap; and a crankshaft having an axis of
rotation, the crankshaft being rotatably held by the first plain bearing and the second plain bearing
and configured to receive an explosive load from a piston via a connecting rod.         The crankshaft
flexes, when subjected to the explosive load, in a direction of the explosive load.      The crank cap in
provided with a mechanism which causes the second holding portion to flex in a manner that a
bearing holding surface of the second holding portion follows flexure of the crankshaft subjected to
the explosive load.

                         2/8
FIG.2                           21a1    26  2
                 2026R
                                              21f
                                                  21f
                   24                             21 a2
           27 2R21
      22a1
  22f
  22f                                   26R
   22                             23a
                           23b        29
                               25
                         27R
                       22a2

                                                    1
                               Crankshaft Bearing Support Structure
         This nonprovisional application is based on Japanese Patent Application No. 2017-007356
filed on January 19, 2017 with the Japan Patent Office, the entire contents of which are hereby
incorporated by reference.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
         The present invention relates to a crankshaft bearing support structure.
Description of the Background Art
         Conventional crankshaft bearing support structures are disclosed in, for example, Japanese
Patent Laying-Open No. 2009-222087 (JP'087), Japanese Patent Laying-Open No. 2015-132368
(JP'368), and Japanese Patent Laying-Open No. 2008-89093 (JP'093).
         JP'087 discloses upper and lower effective bearing widths that are each set as a function of
a pressure exerted, to optimize the oil film thickness and reduce friction.   JP'368 discloses a
crankshaft bearing support structure which provides a groove in a bearing to equalize the effects of
reduction of frictions produced in crank journals.   JP'093 discloses a support structure which
employs a split structure for a crank cap to eliminate a step at a mating surface between the crank
cap and a cylinder block, thereby reducing friction.    A problem with the conventional crankshaft
bearing support structures is that a plain bearing on the crank cap is prone to wear-away.
         Thus, the present invention is made to solve the above problem and an object of the present
invention is to provide a crankshaft bearing support structure which prevents a plain bearing on the
crank cap side from wearing away.
         The inventor studied carefully the cause of wear-away of the plain bearing on the crank cap
side.   An explosive load on a piston is transferred to the crankshaft through a connecting rod, at
which time a downward force in a direction from the top dead center toward the bottom dead center
is applied to the crankshaft, causing the crankshaft to flex. The load on the crankshaft is
transferred to the plain bearing held by the crank cap having a high rigidity.    The inventor has
found that the plain bearing on the crank cap side comes into one-sided contact with the flexed
crankshaft, at an edge in the direction of the axis of rotation of the crankshaft, causing an oil film to
be discontinued, ending up with a solid contact between the crankshaft and the plain bearing.
Then, the inventor has found that the above problem can be overcome by reducing the holding
strength of the plain bearing on the crank cap side and thereby causing the crank cap and the plain
bearing to follow flexure of the crankshaft.

                                                      2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        Based on the above findings, a crankshaft bearing support structure includes a cylinder
block having a first holding portion; a first plain bearing held by the first holding portion of the
cylinder block; a crank cap fastened to the cylinder block, the crank cap having a second holding
portion; a second plain bearing held by the second holding portion of the crank cap; and a
crankshaft having an axis of rotation, the crankshaft being rotatably held by the first plain bearing
and the second plain bearing and configured to receive an explosive load from a piston via a
connecting rod.     The crankshaft flexes, when subjected to the explosive load, in a direction of the
explosive load.    The crank cap in provided with a mechanism which causes the second holding
portion to flex in a manner that a bearing holding surface of the second holding portion follows
flexure of the crankshaft subjected to the explosive load.
        The crankshaft bearing support structure thus configured includes the crank cap having the
mechanism which causes the second holding portion to flex in the manner that the bearing holding
surface of the second holding portion follows the flexure of the crankshaft subjected to the explosive
load.   Thus, the second holding portion and the second plain bearing held by the second holding
portion flex in the direction of the flexure.  As a result, a great portion of the surface of the second
plain bearing comes into contact with the crankshaft.        Consequently, one-sided contact of the
second holding portion with the crankshaft is prevented, thereby preventing the second plain
bearing from wearing away.
         Preferably, the mechanism includes pairs of bolt-fastening points provided in the crank cap,
the bolt-fastening points in the pairs being located on opposite sides of the second holding portion in
an axial direction of the crankshaft and being located on opposite sides of the crankshaft when
viewed from the axial direction of the crankshaft.      In this case, the bolt-fastening points are
provided on the opposite sides of the second holding portion, thereby facilitating the second holding
portion to follow the flexure of the crankshaft, as compared to the case where the bolt-fastening
points are provided in the second holding portion.        Further, since the bolt-fastening points in the
pairs are provided on the opposite sides of the crankshaft, the crankshaft can be held from both
sides.
         Preferably, the bolt-fastening points in the pairs are provided in projecting portions projecting
from opposite surfaces of the second holding portion in the axial direction of the crankshaft and
integrally formed with the second holding portion, and the crank cap includes surfaces facing the
cylinder block and provided with grooves between the second holding portion and the projecting
portions, the grooves extending along a longitudinal direction of the second holding portion.         In this
case, the forces of the bolt-fastening points to hold the second holding portion are weak near the

                                                       3
grooves, thereby facilitating the second holding portion to follow the flexure of the crankshaft.
         Preferably, the mechanism includes one of a groove and a through-hole provided in the
second holding portion, the one of the groove and the through-hole being formed in an arcuate
shape along an arcuate surface of the second holding portion which holds the second plain bearing,
the one of the groove and the through-hole having a depth in the axial direction of the crankshaft.
In this case, the one of the groove and the through-hole having a depth in the axial direction of the
crankshaft is provided in the arcuate shape along the arcuate surface holding the second plain
bearing of the second holding portion, thereby reducing the strength of the second holding portion
around the portion holding the second plain bearing.         Consequently, the portion, of the second
holding portion, holding the second plain bearing is facilitated to follow the flexure of the crankshaft.
         Preferably, the mechanism includes round or plain chamfered edges provides in a surface of
the second holding portion facing the cylinder block.        In this case, the surface of the second
holding portion that comes in contact with the first holding portion has the edges that are round
chamfered or plain chamfered.        Thus, contact area between the second holding portion and the
first holding portion is reduced, facilitating oscillation of the second holding portion relative to the
first holding portion.
         According to the present invention, the crankshaft bearing support structure which prevents
the plain bearing on the crank cap side from wearing away is provided.
         The foregoing and other objects, features, aspects and advantages of the present invention
will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when
taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         Fig. 1 is a section view of a crankshaft bearing support structure according to Embodiment 1
of the present invention.
         Fig. 2 is a perspective view of a crank cap according to Embodiment 1.
         Fig. 3 is a perspective view of a comparison crank cap.
         Fig. 4 is a front view of the crank cap according to Embodiment 1 attached to a cylinder
block.
         Fig. 5 is a section view of the crank cap according to Embodiment 1, taken along a line V-V
in Fig. 4.
         Fig. 6 is a section view of the crank cap according to Embodiment 1, taken along a line VI-VI
in Fig. 4.
         Fig. 7 is a schematic view of a crankshaft bearing support structure of the comparison crank

                                                        4
cap.
         Fig. 8 is a schematic view of the crankshaft bearing support structure of the crank cap
according to Embodiment 1.
DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
         Hereafter, crankshaft bearing support structures according to various embodiments of the
present invention are described, with reference to the accompanying drawings.            In the description
below, the same reference sign is used to refer to the same or corresponding component in the
drawings, and description thereof will not be repeated.
         Embodiment 1
         Fig. 1 is a section view of a crankshaft bearing support structure according to Embodiment 1
of the present invention.     As shown in Fig. 1, the crankshaft bearing support structure 1 includes: a
cylinder block 10; a first plain bearing 14 held by the cylinder block 10; a crank cap 20 fastened to
the cylinder block 10; a second plain bearing 24 held by the crank cap 20; and a crankshaft 11
which is rotatably held by the first plain bearing 14 and the second plain bearing 24 and is
configured to receive the explosive load from a piston via a connecting rod.         The cylinder block 10
has a first holding portion 12 which holds the first plain bearing 14.     The crank cap 20 has a second
holding portion 29 which holds the second plain bearing 24.
         The crank cap 20 is fastened to the cylinder block 10 by bolts 41.      The crankshaft 11 is
located between the cylinder blocks 10 and the crank caps 20.           The crankshaft 11 has crank
journals, crankpins to which connecting rods are attached, and crank arms connecting the crank
journals and the crankpins.      Fig. 1 illustrates a crank journal portion.  The first plain bearing 14
and the second plain bearing 24 hold the crank journal.
         Lubricating oil is present between the crankshaft 11 and the inner circumferential surfaces of
the first plain bearing 14 and the second plain bearing 24.        Although the crankshaft 11 makes a
sliding motion between the first plain bearing 14 and the second plain bearing 24, sliding friction is
very small due to the presence of the lubricating oil between the crankshaft 11 and the first plain
bearing 14 and the second plain bearing 24.          In the present embodiment, the crankshaft 11 is
disposed extending in the forward and rearward direction of a vehicle.         The shapes of the first plain
bearing 14 and the second plain bearing 24 are semi-cylinders which form one cylinder.
         Fig. 2 is a perspective view of the crank cap according to Embodiment 1. As shown in Fig.
2, the crank cap 20 includes: first projecting portions 21 extending in parallel to the crankshaft 11
and fastened to the cylinder block 10; second projecting portions 22 extending in parallel to the
crankshaft 11 and fastened to the cylinder block 10, the second projecting portions 22 facing the

                                                       5
first projecting portions 21; a second holding portion 29 connecting the first projecting portions 21
and the second projecting portions 22.
         The first projecting portions 21 and the second projecting portions 22 are respectively
provided with bolt-fastening points 21a1 and 21a2 and bolt-fastening points 22a1 and 22a2 that are
offset relative to the second holding portion 29.      The bolt-fastening points 21a1, 21a2, 22a1, 22a2
are fastened to the cylinder block 10 by bolts.
         The bolt-fastening points 21a1, 21a2 and the bolt-fastening points 22a1, 22a2 are located
facing each other with the crankshaft 11 in between.         The bolt-fastening points 21 al, 22a1 and the
bolt-fastening points 21a2, 22a2 are located facing each other with the second holding portion 29 in
between.      Since the bolt-fastening points 21al, 21a2, 22a1, 22a2 are provided offset relative to the
second holding portion 29, the second holding portion 29 is facilitated to oscillate, following flexure
of the crankshaft, as compared to the case where the bolt-fasteners are provided in the second
holding portion 29.     The crank cap 20 has pairs of bolt-fastening points, that is, a pair of the
bolt-fastening points 21a1, 21a2 and a pair of the bolt-fastening points 22a1, 22a2, on opposite
sides of the second holding portion 29 in the axial direction of the crankshaft 11.       The
bolt-fastening points 21a1, 21a2 and the bolt-fastening points 22a1, 22a2 in the pairs are provided
on opposite sides of the crankshaft 11 when viewed from the axial direction of the crankshaft 11.
In other words, the bolt-fastening points 21a1, 21a2 are disposed on one side of the crankshaft 11
in the axial direction, and the bolt-fastening points 22a1, 22a2 are disposed on the other side of the
crankshaft 11 in the axial direction.
         The bolt-fastening points 21a1 and 21a2 are provided in the first projecting portions 21, and
the bolt-fastening points 22a1 and 22a2 are provided in the second projecting portions 22.           The
first projecting portions 21 and the second projecting portions 22 are projecting from opposite
surfaces of the second holding portion 29 in the axial direction of the crankshaft, and integrally
formed with the second holding portion 29.        The crank cap 20 includes surfaces facing the cylinder
block 10 and provided with grooves 26, 27 extending along the longitudinal direction of the second
holding portion 29 between the second holding portion 29 and the first projecting portions 21 and
between the second holding portion 29 and the second projecting portions 22.            Due to the grooves
26, bonded areas between the second holding portion 29 and the first projecting portions 21 are
reduced.     As a result, oscillation of the second holding portion 29 is facilitated.   Due to the
grooves 27, bonded areas between the second holding portion 29 and the second projecting
portions 22 are reduced.      As a result, oscillation of the second holding portion 29 is facilitated.
         The surfaces of the second holding portion 29 that face the cylinder block 10 include radii
26R, 27R as round chamfers.         The chamfers may be plain chamfers.        Portions of the radii 26R,
27R are provided along the grooves 26, 27.         The second holding portion 29 being provided with

                                                        6
the radii 26R on the opposite surfaces reduces the area of a contact surface 21f between the two
radii 26R.    Providing the second holding portion 29 with the radii 27R on the opposite surfaces
reduces the area of a contact surface 22f between the two radii 27R. As a result, the second
holding portion 29 is facilitated to oscillate in the forward and rearward direction (the direction in
which the crankshaft 11 extends) of the vehicle indicated by an arrow 2 about the contact surfaces
21f, 22f, as compared to the case without the radii 26R, 27R.
         The second holding portion 29 holds the second plain bearing 24. The second plain
bearing 24 includes a material that is retentive of the lubricating oil, for example, a sintered metallic
body.    The second plain bearing 24 is fit into an arcuate first recess 23a of the second holding
portion 29. A second recess 23b is provided opposite the first recess 23a.            Providing the second
recess 23b opposite the first recess 23a allows reduction of the strength of the second holding
portion 29 between the first recess 23a and the second recess 23b.
         The second holding portion 29 includes a groove 25 provided in an arcuate shape along the
arcuate surface holding the second plain bearing 24.          The groove 25 has a depth in the axial
direction of the crankshaft 11.     The groove 25 may or may not extend through the second holding
portion 29 in the thickness direction of the second holding portion 29. Moreover, while the groove
25 having a predetermined length in the arcuate direction is provided in the present embodiment,
the groove 25 may be a through-hole having a short length in the arcuate direction.           Plural
through-holes or grooves 25 may be provided.            The depth direction of the groove 25 or the
through-hole coincides with the axial direction of the crankshaft 11.        Providing the groove 25 or the
through-hole allows reduction of the strength of the second holding portion 29.
         The first projecting portions 21 and the second projecting portions 22 extend in a direction
parallel to the direction indicated by the arrow 2. The second holding portion 29 extends in a
direction perpendicular to the direction indicated by the arrow 2. The crank cap has the groove 25
or the through-hole, the grooves 26, 27, and the radii 26R, 27R, as a mechanism( a flexure
follow-up mechanism) which causes the second holding portion 29 to flex in a manner that the
bearing holding surface of the second holding portion 29 follows flexure of the crankshaft subjected
to the explosive load.     There is no need to provide all of them.    At least any of the groove 25 or the
through-hole, the grooves 26, 27, and the radii 26R, 27R may be provided.
         Fig. 3 is a perspective view of a comparison crank cap. The comparison crank cap 20 has
the second holding portion 29 provided with bolt-fastening points 21a, 22a. The second holding
portion 29 holds the second plain bearing 24.         Since the second holding portion 29 is provided with
the bolt-fastening points 21 a, 22a, it is difficult for the second holding portion 29 to flex, following
flexure of the crankshaft.

                                                        7
          Fig. 4 is a front view of the crank cap according to Embodiment 1 attached to the cylinder
block 10.     As shown in Fig. 4, the crank cap holds the crankshaft 11, which is a rotating body,
between the first plain bearing 14 and the second plain bearing 24.           The radii 26R, 27R are
provided in areas of the second holding portion 29 that are in contact with the first holding portion 12.
The groove 25 is provided spaced from the second plain bearing 24.              The groove 25 is provided
extending along the second plain bearing 24, without reaching the radii 26R, 27R.             In the crank cap
20, a thickness necessary for reliability is left below the second plain bearing 24.         The first holding
portion 12 which holds the first plain bearing 14 is not provided with a structure like the groove 25.
          Fig. 5 is a section view of the crank cap 20, taken along a line V-V in Fig. 4.       As shown in
 Fig. 5, the crank cap 20 holds the crankshaft 11.        An explosive load is applied to the crankshaft 11
in a direction indicated by an arrow 20c, from the piston via a connecting rod.          Due to the load, a
downward force indicated by an arrow 20b is applied to the arrow 20c side of the crank cap 20, and
an upward force indicated by an arrow 20a is applied to the far side of the crank cap 20 from the
arrow 20c.
          Fig. 6 is a section view of the crank cap 20, taken along a line VI-VI in Fig. 4.       As shown in
Fig. 6, normally (when unloaded), the crankshaft 11 is present at a position indicated by the two-dot
chain line.     As a load caused by explosion is applied in the direction indicated by the arrow 20c, the
crankshaft 11 flexes as indicated by the dotted line.        This flexure of the crankshaft 11 is transferred
to the second plain bearing 24.        As a result, forces twisted in directions indicated by arrows 20d,
20e are applied to the second holding portion 29 and the second plain bearing 24, respectively.
Since the flexure follow-up mechanism is provided which causes the second holding portion 29 to
flex, following in the direction of the flexure of the crankshaft 11, the second holding portion 29 and
the second plain bearing 24 on the second holding portion 29 move to the positions indicated by the
dotted lines.
          In other words, when subjected to the explosive load, an axis 101 of rotation of the
crankshaft 11 flexes along the direction of the explosive load.         In the direction of the flexure of the
crankshaft 11, the second holding portion 29 has a strength smaller than the first holding portion 12.
As a result, the second holding portion 29 flexes in the direction indicated by the arrow 20c, thereby
causing the second holding portion 29 and the second plain bearing 24 on the second holding
portion 29 to follow the crankshaft 11.      Owing to this, one-sided contact of the second plain bearing
24 with the crankshaft 11 can be avoided.         Effects of the present embodiment are to be described,
with reference to the crankshaft 11 and the second holding portion 29 schematically shown in Figs.
7 and 8.
          Fig. 7 is a schematic view of the crankshaft bearing support structure of a comparison crank
cap.     As shown in Fig. 7, the crankshaft bearing support structure according to the comparison

                                                      8
product includes a second holding portion 29 having a great rigidity on the crank cap side.
Consequently, an explosive load from a piston is transferred to a crankshaft 11 via a connecting rod,
causing the crankshaft 11 to flex, without the second holding portion 29 following the flexure of the
crankshaft 11.     Consequently, an edge 24a of the second plain bearing 24 comes in solid contact
with the crankshaft 11.
        Fig. 8 is a schematic view of the crankshaft bearing support structure of the crank cap
according to Embodiment 1. As shown in Fig. 8, the explosive load from the piston is transferred
to the crankshaft 11 via the connecting rod, causing the crankshaft 11 to flex. Since the second
holding portion 29 according to Embodiment 1 has a low strength, as the crankshaft 11 flexes, the
second holding portion 29 flexes, following the flexure of the crankshaft 11.        As a result, one-sided
contact of the second plain bearing 24 with the crankshaft 11 can be prevented.          While the grooves
25, 26, 27 and the radii 26R, 27R are provided in the present embodiment, it should be noted that
these may not essentially be provided.      Instead of providing these, the second plain bearing 24 can
be caused to follow the crankshaft 11 by, for example, forming a portion of the second holding
portion 29 in the vicinity of the second plain bearing 24, using a low strength material.
        While the embodiment of the present invention has been described above, the above
disclosure is by way of example in all respects and is not limiting.       The technical scope of the
present invention is indicated by the appended claims, and all changes that come within the scope
of the claims and the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are intended to be embraced
within their scope.
        The present invention can be used in the fields of crankshaft bearing support structures.
        It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference
does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general
knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
        In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where
the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to
specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further
features in various embodiments of the invention.

                                                      9
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
         1. A crankshaft bearing support structure, comprising:
        a cylinder block having a first holding portion;
        a first plain bearing held by the first holding portion of the cylinder block;
        a crank cap fastened to the cylinder block, the crank cap having a second holding portion;
        a second plain bearing held by the second holding portion of the crank cap; and
        a crankshaft having an axis of rotation, the crankshaft being rotatably held by the first plain
bearing and the second plain bearing and configured to receive an explosive load from a piston via
a connecting rod,
        wherein the crankshaft flexes, when subjected to the explosive load, in a direction of the
explosive load, and
        wherein the crank cap in provided with a mechanism which causes the second holding
portion to flex in a manner that a bearing holding surface of the second holding portion follows
flexure of the crankshaft subjected to the explosive load.
        2. The crankshaft bearing support structure according to claim 1, wherein
        the mechanism includes pairs of bolt-fastening points provided in the crank cap, the
bolt-fastening points in the pairs being located on opposite sides of the second holding portion in an
axial direction of the crankshaft and being located on opposite sides of the crankshaft when viewed
from the axial direction of the crankshaft.
        3. The crankshaft bearing support structure according to claim 2, wherein
        the bolt-fastening points in the pairs are provided in projecting portions projecting from
opposite surfaces of the second holding portion in the axial direction of the crankshaft and integrally
formed with the second holding portion, and the crank cap includes surfaces facing the cylinder
block and provided with grooves between the second holding portion and the projecting portions,
the grooves extending along a longitudinal direction of the second holding portion.
        4. The crankshaft bearing support structure according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein
        the mechanism includes one of a groove and a through-hole provided in the second holding
portion, the one of the groove and the through-hole being formed in an arcuate shape along an
arcuate surface of the second holding portion which holds the second plain bearing, the one of the
groove and the through-hole having a depth in the axial direction of the crankshaft.
        5. The crankshaft bearing support structure according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein
        the mechanism includes round or plain chamfered edges provided in a surface of the
second holding portion facing the cylinder block.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
