MODIFIED POLYPHENOLS AND MODIFIED POLYPHENOL COMPOSITIONS
ABSTRACT
This invention relates to polyphenolic compounds, in particular ethoxylated
polyphenolic compounds and the use of such compounds in disease prevention,
disease treatment, and life extension in humans and animals.
The invention also relates to methods of preparing ethoxylated polyphenolic
compounds, and preparation of compositions comprising the compounds, including
dietary supplements and foods. The inventors describe how modified C glycosidic
ellagitannins are safe, palatable and effective at medium and high doses, and
produce broad and profound health outcomes in mammals.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    1
     MODIFIED POLYPHENOLS AND MODIFIED POLYPHENOL COMPOSITIONS
                                         TECHNICAL FIELD
              This invention relates to polyphenolic compounds, in particular ethoxylated
 5   polyphenolic compounds and the use of such compounds in disease prevention, disease
     treatment, and life extension in humans and animals.         The invention also relates to
     methods of preparing ethoxylated polyphenolic compounds,               and preparation of
     compositions comprising the compounds, including dietary supplements and foods.
10                                      BACKGROUND ART
              The 20th century has been called the "Aspirin Century", displacing salicin, an
     anti-inflammatory agent extracted from bark of the willow tree.           The human body
     metabolizes the prodrug, salicin, to the aspirin precursor, salicyclic acid. Salicyclic acid
     was traditionally used sparingly due to its unpleasant taste and tendency to damage the
15   stomach. Hence, doses of the active ingredient were small, rendering it less effective.
              The modification of salicyclic acid by reaction with acetic anhydride produces the
     less irritable acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin). Aspirin is also combined with caffeine and
     sold as the analgesic Anacin.
              Ever since Bayer's aspirin invention (US patent 1900) natural products have been
20   a very distant second to drugs in the treatment and prevention of disease and aging related
     illness.
              Of the roughly 150,000 people who die each day across the globe, about two
     thirds-100,000 per day-die of age-related causes.            In industrialized nations, the
     proportion is much higher, reaching 90 % (de Grey ADNJ, 'Life Span Extension Research
25   and Public Debate:      Societal Considerations', Studies in Ethics, Law, and Technology,
     2007; 1(1), doi:10.2202/1941-6008.1011).
              There has been major progress in the development of pharmaceuticals for disease
     treatment but there continue to be shortfalls, particularly with side effects and poor

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    2
     compliance. The search in the natural world for competition to potent pharmaceuticals
     for disease treatment and prevention has been essentially fruitless.       Conservative food
     processers have not provided a challenge to the high-risk pharmaceutical company's
     capability to produce potent medicines for human and animal health.
 5            Arthritis and diseases of affluence such as cancer, obesity and metabolic syndrome,
     all have inflammation in common. While genetic factors are considered a factor in some
     instances, environmental factors, in particular our modem diet rich in processed foods
     seem to carry the heavy burden of blame.
              Cancer is the number one or number two killer in many countries. The weapons
10   against cancer are somewhat cruel and brutal. Tumours are cut out, burnt with radiation,
     or treated with drugs that poison rapidly dividing cells (chemotherapy). These methods
     are undeniably effective, but inevitably inflict collateral damage.
              Recent developments in targeted cancer treatment, which act on molecular
     pathways active in many cancer cells, have the advantage of less harsh side effects than
15   are generally associated with chemotherapy. However these successful targeted cancer
     therapies generally only prolong life by a few months and can pose a considerable
     financial burden to the consumer or the government that is providing healthcare to its
     population. Essentially, the high rate of mutation of cancer cells allows them to avoid the
     relevant molecular pathways.
20            Current treatment for metabolic syndrome often includes low dose aspirin and a
     cocktail of pharmaceuticals that target blood pressure, cholesterol, diabetes and obesity.
     Poor compliance, cost and side effects are major issues in this area of cardiovascular
     disease.
              Arthritis is a name for a group of conditions affecting the joints. There are more
25   than 100 forms of arthritis. In Australia, nearly one in five people has arthritis. The most
     common forms of arthritis are osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and gout (see,
     http://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/bhcv2/bhcarticles.nsf/pages/Arthritis).
              Treatment is generally effective with long-term pharmaceutical use, but there are
     adverse side effects.
30            Despite the obvious need, finding single drugs to treat multiple diseases has been

   WO 2014/071438                                                             PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                     3
     challenging. All biological processes and most diseases have back-up strategies, making
     drug discovery complex and challenging.
             Over the last 20 years, a significant body of evidence has emerged indicating that
     chemically diverse classes of naturally-occurring substances derived from higher plants
 5   are of potential interest for therapeutic interventions in several inflammatory diseases.
             Increasingly it is being found that a large range of plant-derived constituents
     interfere with three relevant targets involved in the inflammatory process, namely
     arachidonic acid metabolite pathways, nitric oxide and nuclear factor kappa-light-chain
     enhancer of activated B cells (NF-KB). This has expanded their potential therapeutic use
10   in the management of relevant inflammatory related diseases (Calixto JB, Otuki MF and
     Santos ARS, 'Anti-inflammatory compounds of plant origin. Part I. Action on arachidonic
     acid pathway, nitric oxide and nuclear factor          K  B (NF-KB)', Planta Med., 2003;
     69(11):973-983).
             By way of example, many antioxidants found in foods have anti-inflammatory
15.  properties, such as those found in tea, coffee, wine and chocolate, yet these anti
     inflammatory foods may impact on prolonged inflammation (also referred to as chronic
     inflammation), but are not potent enough to bring about pain relief in humans. In many
     instances these antioxidant-rich foods can be consumed in high doses but their
     bioavailability in humans is poor, hence delivering poor health outcomes.
20           The family of NF-B transcription factors is intimately involved in the regulation
     of expression of numerous genes in the setting of the inflammatory response. Since
     inflammatory processes play a fundamental role in.the damage of articular tissues, many
     in vitro and in vivo studies have examined the contribution of components of the NF-KB
     signaling pathways to the pathogenesis of various rheumatic diseases, in particular, of
25   osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Inflammation, cartilage degradation,
     cell proliferation, -angiogenesis and pannus formation are processes in which the role of
     NF-KB is prominent (Roman-Blas JA and Jimenez SA, 'NF-KB as a potential therapeutic
     target in osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis', Osteoarthritis Cartilage, 2006; 14(9):839
     848).
30           NF-KB is a transcription factor that plays a critical role across many cellular

 WO 2014/071438                                                              PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    4
    processes including embryonic and neuronal development, cell proliferation, apoptosis,
    and immune responses to infection and inflammation. Dysregulation of NF-KB signaling
    is associated with inflammatory diseases and certain cancers. Constitutive activation of
    NF-KB signaling has been found in some types of tumours including breast, colon,
 5  prostate, skin and lymphoid, hence therapeutic blockade of NF-KB signaling in cancer
    cells provides an attractive strategy for the development of anticancer drugs (Miller SC,
    Huang R, Sakamuru S, Shukla SJ, Attene-Ramos MS, Shinn P, Van Leer D, Leister W,
    Austin CP and Xia M, 'Identification of known drugs that act as inhibitors of NF-KB
    signaling and their mechanism of action', Biochem. Pharmacol., 2010; 79(9):1272-1280).
10          The impact that NF-KB has on cancer metastasis, angiogenesis and apoptosis
    provides a means to its beneficial application for all cancers.
            NF-KB transcription factors regulate several important physiological processes,
    including inflammation and immune responses, cell growth, apoptosis, and the expression
    of certain viral genes. Therefore, the NF-KB signaling pathway has also provided a focus
15  for pharmacological intervention, primarily in situations of chronic inflammation or in
    cancer, where the pathway is often constitutively active and plays a key role in the disease.
    Now that many of the molecular details of the NF-KB pathway are known, it is clear that
    modulators of this pathway can act at several levels.
            Over 750 inhibitors of the NF-KB pathway have been identified, including a
20  variety of natural and synthetic molecules.         These compounds include antioxidants,
    peptides, small RNA/DNA, microbial and viral proteins, small molecules, and engineered
    dominant-negative or constitutively active polypeptides. Several of these molecules act
    as general inhibitors of NF-KB induction, whereas others inhibit specific pathways of
    induction. In addition, some compounds appear to target multiple steps in the NF-KB
25  pathway. Pharmaceutical NF-KIB inhibitors (for example, denosumab) are now entering
    the clinical arena. Moreover, the therapeutic and preventative effects of many natural
    products may, at least in part, be due to their ability to inhibit NF-ICB.
            NF-icB    is  activated   by multiple     families    of viruses,   including  human
    immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1), human T-lymphotropic virus 1 (HTLV-1), hepatitis B
30  virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), and influenza virus.
    This activation may serve several functions: to promote viral replication, prevent virus-

  WO 2014/071438                                                             PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                     5
    induced apoptosis, and mediate the immune response to the invading pathogen.
            As viruses evolve under the highly selective pressures of the immune system, they
    acquire the capacity to target critical steps in the host cell life, hijacking vital cellular
    functions to promote viral pathogenesis.         Many viruses have evolved mechanisms to
 5  target the NF-KB pathway to facilitate their replication, cell survival, and evasion of
    immune responses.       In addition, some viruses use the NF-icB pathway either for its
    antiapoptotic properties to evade the host defense mechanisms or to trigger apoptosis as a
    mechanism of virus spread (Hiscott J, Kwon H and G6nin P, 'Hostile takeovers: viral
    appropriation    of the NF-rB pathway', J.           Clin. Invest.,    2001; 107(2):143-151,
10  doi:10.1172/JCI11918).
            Increasing recognition of the benefits brought about by plant polyphenolics for
    human health has sparked a new appraisal of various plant-derived food and beverages,
    such as fruit juices, olive oil, chocolate, coffee, tea and even alcoholic beverages such as
    wine and cider.
15          However, excessive consumption of these polyphenolic foods often places a high
    calorific load on the human diet (for example, fruit juices such as pomegranate juice or
    cranberry juice), or in the case of caffeinated and alcoholic foods, excess intake results in
    negative health outcomes.
            Plants have been widely used since antiquity as folk medicines. Some of these
20  natural medicines contain the polyphenol antioxidant group, ellagitannins, as the principal
    "active" constituent.
            All ellagitannins contain the ellagic acid moiety:
                                                    0
                                          HO    0
                                       HO                 OH
                                                  O    OH
                                                             ellagic acid.
            Ellagic acid is comprised of two gallic acid moieties:

  WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  6
                                              0    OH
                                           HO        OH
                                                OH      gallic acid.
            Plants produce ellagic acid and convert it to a form of tannin known as
    ellagitannins. These are glucosides that are readily hydrolyzed by water to regenerate
    ellagic acid when the plants are eaten by mammals.
 5          While it is acknowledged that the ellagitannins do deliver some health benefits, it
    is widely reported that there is large inter-individual variability due to variability in
    mammalian gut microflora.
            In mammals, the hydrolysis of the ellagic acid group from the parent ellagitannins
    occurs quite readily.      However, it requires subsequent gut microflora activity to
10  metabolize the ellagic acid into the biologically active entity - the urolithins.
            Ellagitannins and their hydrolysis product, ellagic acid, are poorly absorbed by
    mammals.      It is generally accepted (although not conclusive) that urolithins, the gut
    microflora derived metabolites of ellagic acid, are the entities that deliver the health
    benefits observed with ellagitannins.
15          By way of example, the gut microbe polyphenol metabolite urolithin-A inhibits
    the activation of transcription factors like NF-icB and signaling pathways that drive
    inflammation.

   WO 2014/071438                                                              PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                      7
                                       0
                        HO       0
                     HO                          OH
                                     O       OH
                               0          ellagic acid (EA)
                                       0                                           0
                        HO       0                                           0
                     HO                          OH       -0-HO                            OH
                                  URO-D      OH                                URO-C   OH
                                          0                                        0
                                     O                                        0
                        HO -                            -0-     HO                         OH
                                      URO-B                                    URO-A
              The above diagram shows the ellagic acid metabolites produced by intestinal
     microflora in animals and humans.
              URO-D = Urolithin D (tetrahydroxydibenzopyranone)
 5            URO-C = Urolithin C (trihydroxydibenzopyranone)
              URO-A = Urolithin A (dihydroxydibenzopyranone)
              URO-B = Urolithin B (monohydroxydibenzopyranone)
              A small sub-group of ellagitannins, the C-glycosidic ellagitannins, are found in
     species of oak (Quercus sp.) and chestnut (Castaneasp.)
10            These C-glycosidic ellagitannins all contain both the ellagic acid moiety and the
     tri-gallic acid moiety, typified by vescalagin or its epimer, castalagin.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                      8
                                                 HO        ON NO         ON
                                                                   OH
                                                              O\
                                                VeScalagin RI    ON. R a H
                                                Castalagin RI
                                                            t    H.Ru O
             Under strong acidic conditions, such as exist in the mammalian stomach, these C
     glycosidic ellagitannins hydrolyse ellagic acid to form adducts with a tri-gallic acid
     moiety, such as vescalin and castalin.
                                                     H   OH
                                                                      R2
                                    .NO     O
                                                                        O
                                                        HO
                                      No                          OH
                                             HO           OH
                                            Vescalin RI a ON, R a H
                                            Castalin RI = H. R a OH
 5
             Vescalin and castalin are not found in oak (nor are they naturally occurring
     anywhere else in nature) but they are formed in small amounts from their respective
     ellagitannins, vescalagin and castalagin, following thermal treament (known as 'toasting')
     of oak barrel staves when making oak barrels.
10           Examples of such vescalin-based oak C-glycosidic ellagitannins also include
     grandinin, roburin E, roburin A (a vescalagin dimer), roburin D (a castalagin dimer), and
     the dimers roburin B and roburin C:

   WO 2014/071438                                                                    PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                       9
                    OMO
                                             Ly   0-       RI U.Gmd.I          ONR
                                             O      No      OH
                          O        HH                         OH
    -O                        HO                                         R,=p-OH robudtn A
                               0R,                                          w -OH robudn D
                   HO                    NO
                                                                       0 R,
                      HO       IeseH            -"e R    \    H obi                            OHHORH
                            HOH
                                            HO
                      HOH                        OH
                                                              R1 =L, roburin B
                             0                                  R, =X, roburin C
                          H    OH    HO        OH                                       OHOO
           HO                   HO       O                                           0    0     001
                               : 0R,                                              L NV
                    HO              HHO0                    OH                         "W      0"
                                       HOHH
              As is the case with other dietary ellagitannins, when an oak-matured beverage
 5   such as wine, brandy or whisky is consumed, the human body also converts (hydrolyses)
     the C-glycosidic ellagitannins into ellagic acid.
              Oak has long been the timber of choice for making wine barrels. Although storing
     wine in oak barrels was probably initially merely for convenience, it was eventually
     realized that the wine actually improved as a result of storage in oak. During storage,
10   some of the polyphenols in the oak are extracted into the wine, such that oak polyphenols

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    10
     have been consumed by humans, albeit in very low doses, for as long as wine has been
     stored in oak.
             Oak polyphenol compounds, including those depicted above, fall within the
     category of plant tannins, and are known to have antioxidant properties.          Red wine
 5   matured in oak contains only very small amounts of oak C-glycosidic ellagitannins,
     generally about 1 to 2 mg per 150 mL. There are no known food sources that would
     provide higher doses of oak C-glycosidic ellagitannins. Even if such food sources were
     known, plant tannins such as the C-glycosidic ellagitannins from oak are not particularly
     palatable at high doses.      Specifically, products containing higher amounts of oak C
10   glycosidic ellagitannins than is commonly found in red wine, have an astringent, tannic
     taste that is generally considered unpleasant.
             For comparison, when oak is used in winemaking, the levels in the resultant wine
     are typically quite low - generally a 100 mL portion of oaked red wine would be made
     with typically 0.1 to 0.2 grams of oak chips.
15           Therefore, whilst it may be desirable to supplement the mammalian diet with high
     levels of oak C-glycosidic ellagitannins for the antioxidant activity provided by their
     urolithin metabolites, and thus the health benefits associated with a diet high in
     antioxidants such as urolithin metabolites, most mammals would not find the taste profile
     of any product containing higher amounts of oak C-glycosidic ellagitannins than is
20   commonly found in red wine acceptable.
                            DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             A general. objective of this invention is to provide modified polyphenol
     compounds and compositions comprising the modified polyphenol compounds that
     address a range of health issues, including some of the issues as described in the
25   Background Art section, above.
             Another general objective of the present invention is to provide the public with a
     useful, convenient, efficacious, cost-effective or commercial choice.
             Another general objective of the present invention is to return natural products
     such as foods to a position alongside or as an alternative to pharmaceuticals, to be used as
30   a viable treatment or in the prevention of disease.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   11
             Another general objective of the present invention is to offer single foods or food
     cocktails (that is, 'food products') that can be effective and complement and/or replace
     pharmaceuticals in the disease-arena.
             Another general objective of the present invention is to offer efficacious,
 5   commercial choices for products that are used in addition to conventional medical
     treatments (e.g. chemotherapy, radiation therapy and hormone therapies) and provide a
     reduction in side effects (e.g. nausea, alopecia, fatigue, loss of appetite, digestive issues,
     skin disorders, sexual function).
             Another general objective of the present invention is to offer efficacious, cost
10   effective, convenient and commercial choices for products that are used in addition to
     conventional medical treatments and provide support to the wellbeing of humans or
     animals.
             Another general objective of the present invention is to offer efficacious, cost
     effective, commercial choices for products that are used in addition to conventional
15   medical treatments thus providing enhanced health outcomes in the treatment or
     prevention of the condition when compared with conventional medical treatment without
     this invention.
             The above-mentioned general objectives (i.e. general advantages that the present
     invention may provide) may be individually met by one or more embodiments of the
20   present invention as described herein.
             The inventors have described herein for the first time that the tri-gallo moiety, not
     the di-gallo moiety (ellagic acid) described extensively in the literature, is a potent entity
     for delivery of profound health outcomes in mammals.
             The inventors have discovered that ethoxylating C-glycosidic ellagitannins under
25   acidic conditions results in modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins which have an improved
     taste profile.
             In addition, the inventors have surprisingly discovered that modified C-glycosidic
     ellagitannins are well tolerated (i.e. pallatable) at medium and ligh doses and produce
     broad and profound health outcomes in mammals.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    12
             The inventors have also discovered that combining modified C-glycosidic
     ellagitannins with caffeine-rich polyphenolic foods under acidic conditions, results in
     caffeine-vescalagin adducts that enhance the mammalian health outcomes achieved by the
     modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins and concomitantly lower caffeine levels in said foods.
 5           The inventors have also discovered that the modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins
     can be added to foods to create food products that provide a high dietary level of C
     glycosidic ellagitannins without the astringent, tannic taste previously associated with
     high levels of ellagitannins.
             Advantageously, food products (including modified food products) comprising the
10   modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins can be used in the prevention and treatment of
     disease. Food products comprising modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins are particularly
     useful in the prevention and treatment of diseases linked-to NF-CB regulation and nitric
     oxide deficiency.
             The inventors have also discovered that the use of non-ethoxylated C-glycosidic
15   ellagitannins in formulations where the.other polyphenolic components are ethoxylated,
     also produces strong health outcomes when compared with pharmaceuticals.
             Compounds and formulations of this invention can result in strong inhibition of
     NF-KB signaling, thus allowing for an array of profound health outcomes that are found
     to be impacted by the downstream influence of this master regulator (Gilmor'e TD and
20   Herscovitch M, 'Inhibitors of NF-icB signaling:        785 and counting', Oncogene, 2006;
     25:6887-6899).
             Diseases that compounds and formulations of this invention can provide viable
     solutions for include, but are not limited to, aging-related conditions, cancers including
     metastatic cancers, heart disease, metabolic syndrome, inflammation (both chronic and
25   acute), chronic fatigue, obesity, erectile dysfunction, appetite suppression, sleep disorders,
     urinary tract infections, asthma, enlarged prostate, excessive alcohol consumption, male
     pattern baldness and arthritis.
             With regards arthritis this is a major cause of disability and chronic pain in
     Australia. Standard treatment has been glucocorticoids, disease-modifying anti-rheumatic
30   drugs, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as aspirin and ibuprofen, COX-2

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   13
     inhibitors such as celecoxib and more recently tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha
     blockers. Many patients respond poorly and adverse effects are common. Therefore,
     there is an unmet clinical demand for new anti-arthritic drugs. The ideal anti-arthritic
     drug to treat chronic inflammation, accompanied by pain, would be a potent, relatively
 5   inexpensive, easily administered, stable compound, with analgesic properties and with
     minimal adverse effects.
             Food products (including modified food products) comprising modified C
     glycosidic ellagitannins are also useful*in the prevention and treatment of diseases linked
     to nitric oxide deficiency. Some of the known functions of nitric oxide relate to the
10   cardiovascular system, nervous system, lungs, gastrointestinal tract, renal system and
     immune system.
              In particular, the inventors have surprisingly found that modifying C-glycosidic
     ellagitannins by increasing their lipophilicity        results in modified        C-glycosidic
     ellagitannins that have at least the same physiological activity as the corresponding
15   unmodified C-glycosidic ellagitannins.       In the context of this invention, the phrase
     'physiological activity' is intended to be construed broadly to encompass any type of
     physiological activity. For example, the physiological activity can be antioxidant activity,
     analgesic, anti-inflammatory activity or anti-tumour activity.
              In some embodiments of the invention, the modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins
20   have increased physiological activity when compared to the physiological activity of the
     corresponding unmodified C-glycosidic ellagitannins.             These embodiments         are
     particularly preferred.
              Additionally, modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins according to the present
     invention have an improved taste profile when compared to the taste profile of the
25   corresponding unmodified C-glycosidic ellagitannins.           The modified C-glycosidic
     ellagitannins can thus be used to provide a high dietary level of ellagitannins without the
     astringent, tannic taste previously associated with high levels of ellagitannins.
              The modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins can be provided as a dietary supplement
     in any suitable f6rm. The modified ellagitannins can, for example, be provided as a
30   supplement in the form of a dried food extract.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   14
              Alternatively, the modified ellagitannins can be provided as a supplement in the
     form of a pharmaceutical composition. The pharmaceutical composition can comprise
     one or more modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins and a pharmaceutically acceptable
     carrier or diluent.
 5            Preferably, the pharmaceutical compositions are for oral administration and can be
     in tablet, capsule, powder or liquid form. A tablet can include a solid carrier such as
     gelatine or an adjuvant or an inert diluent. Liquid pharmaceutical compositions generally
     include a liquid carrier suitable for human consumption, such as water, or any other
     beverage.
10            In addition to the at least one compound and a carrier or diluent, compositions
     according to the invention can further include a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient,
     buffer, stabiliser, isotonicising agent, preservative. or anti-oxidant or any other material
     known to those of skill in the art. It will be appreciated by the person of skill that such
     materials should be non-toxic and should not interfere with the efficacy of the one or
15   more modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins. With regard to buffers, aqueous compositions
     typically include such substances so as to maintain the composition at a close to
     physiological pH or at least within a range of about pH 5.0 to 8.0.
              The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can also be provided in a form
     suitable for topical application to the skin of a subject.        Forms suitable for topical
20   application of the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention include as a solution,
     cream, ointment, lotion or gel.       Compositions for topical application can thus be
     formulated in a suitable ointment containing the one or more modified C-glycosidic
     ellagitannins suspended or dissolved in one or more carriers.             Carriers for topical
     administration of the compounds of this invention include, but are not limited to, mineral
25   oil,   liquid .petrolatum,     white  petrolatum,    propylene     glycol,   polyoxyethylene,
     polyoxypropylene compound, emulsifying wax and water.
              Carriers, diluents and excipients which can be used in the pharmaceutical
     compositions of the invention will be known to those of skill in the art. In addition to
     those listed above, the British Pharmacopoeia (BP) and the United -States Pharmacopeia
30   and National Formulary (USP-NF) contain details of suitable carriers, diluents .and
     excipients, as does Sweetman S (Ed.), 'Martindale: The complete drug reference.' London:

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                     15
     Pharmaceutical Press,     3 7 'h Ed., (2011), and Rowe RC, Sheskey PJ, Quinn ME (Ed.),
     'Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients', 6" Ed., London: Pharmaceutical Press (2009),
     the contents of which are incorporated herein by cross reference.
             Alternatively, the pharmaceutically acceptable compositions can be formulated in
 5   a suitable lotion or cream containing the one or more modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins
     suspended or dissolved in one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. Suitable
     carriers include, but are not limited to, mineral oil, sorbitan monostearate, polysorbate 60,
     cetyl esters wax, cetearyl alcohol, 2-octyldodecanol, benzyl alcohol, glycerol, propylene
     glycol, isopropyl myristrate, menthol, eucalyptus and water.
10           An alternative administration regime comprises passing one or more compounds
     of the invention, such as modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins through an artificial stomach
     (effectively, a bioreactor) prior to formulating for oral administration or topical
     application. The artificial stomach processes the modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins so
     that the output of the artificial stomach is then suitable for administration to subjects who
15   are not able to metabolize the modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins themselves. Subjects
     who have had a portion of their stomach surgically removed may benefit from such 'pre
     processing' of the compounds of the invention by an artificial stomach. Subjects with
     skin cancer, whose skin is challenged and therefore may not necessarily be receptive to
     direct topical application of modified polyphenol compounds of the invention may also
20.  benefit from 'pre-processing' of the compounds of the invention by an artificial stomach
     to reduce molecular size prior to formulation of a composition, thus assisting in the skin
     absorption required by topical application. The 'pre-processing' of the compounds of the
     invention by an artificial stomach also has application to non-mammalian veterinary
     medicines (e.g. bird treatment).
25           Alternative administration. regimes could comprise passing one or more
     compounds of the invention, such as modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins, through nasal,
     buccal, lingual, sublingual, transdermal or intradermal means.
             Preferably, the modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins are provided as a supplement
     in the form of a fortified food product (i.e. a modified food product). Advantageously, the
30   modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins of the invention can be formulated into a wide variety
     of food groups or food types. There are presently many different types of commercially

   WO 2014/071438                                                             PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                     16
     available supplemented health food products in the marketplace and many of these can be
     formulated or modified to incorporate modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins.
             Particularly preferred examples of food groups/types that can be fortified by
     inclusion of modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins of the invention include those for
 5   beverages, such as tea leaves and ground coffee. Health bars, such as muesli, fruit and
     nut bars can also be fortified by inclusion of modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins of the
     invention. Other examples of food groups/types that can be fortified by inclusion of
     modified ellagitannins of the invention include confectionary, such as toffee, and baked
     goods, such as bread and cakes. The modified ellagitannins of the invention can also be
10   used as an additive in commercially-available oaked wines and other -alcoholic oaked
     beverages.
             Foods fortified with modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins according to the present
     invention can further comprise a flavouring agent. Any suitable type and amount of
     flavouring agent may be used. For example, terpene-based flavours such as lemon oil and
15   lime oil can be used. Other oils such as spearmint and peppermint oil can also be used.
     Preferably, the oils are produced via a steam-distilled or cold-pressed process prior to use.
     Alternatively, herb flavours, such as winter tarragon (licorice flavor) or ginger can be
     used; In a further alternative, artificial flavours such as caramel or cola can be used.
             Broadly, the invention concerns modified polyphenolic compounds.
20           According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a modified
     polyphenolic compound, wherein a polyphenolic compound has been modified such that
     the lipophilicity of the modified polyphenolic compound is increased when compared to
     the lipophilicity of the unmodified polyphenolic compound.
             According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a composition
25   comprising at least one modified polyphenolic compound of the first aspect.
             According to a third aspect of the invention, there is provided a fortified food
     product, wherein food has been fortified -with at least one modified polyphenolic
     compound of the first aspect to form a fortified food product.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   17
             According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a modified
     food product, wherein food has been modified such that a lipophilicity of the formed food
     product is increased when compared to the lipophilicity of the food.
             According to a fifth aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of
 5   producing a modified lipophilic polyphenolic compound, the method comprising the step
     of:
                     exposing a polyphenolic compound to an acidic solution containing at least
                     one nucleophile such that the at least one nucleophile reacts with the
                     polyphenolic compound to form a modified lipophilic polyphenolic
10                   compound.
             According to a sixth aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of
     manufacturing a food product fortified with a modified polyphenolic compound, the
     method comprising the step of:
                     combining a modified lipophilic polyphenolic compound with food,
15                   thereby fortifying the food and producing a food product.
             The method optionally comprises a step of producing a modified lipophilic
     polyphenolic compound according to the fifth aspect.
             According to a seventh aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of
     manufacturing a modified food product, the method comprising the steps of:
20   (i)     combining a modified lipophilic polyphenolic compound with food; and
     (ii)    drying the combined modified lipophilic polyphenolic compound and food so as
     to form a modified food product.
             The method optionally comprises a step of producing a modified lipophilic
     polyphenolic compound according to the fifth aspect.
25           According to an eighth aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of
     treating or preventing a medical condition in a subject, the method comprising the step of
     administering to -the subject a therapeutically effective amount of at least one modified
     polyphenolic compound of the first aspect, a composition of the second aspect, a fortified
     food product of the third aspect, or a modified food product of the fourth aspect.

  WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  18
            According to a ninth aspect of the invention, there is provided use of at least one
    modified polyphenolic compound of the first aspect in the manufacture of a medicament
    for the prevention or treatment of a medical condition in a subject.
            It is to be appreciated that definitions for other aspects of the present invention
 5  may be derived from other statements concerning the invention as found elsewhere within
    this specification.
            Turning to the first aspect, the polyphenolic compound can be any type of
    polyphenolic compound. In the context of this invention, the term 'polyphenol' is to be
    construed broadly and as such is intended to encompass compounds having two or more
10  phenolic units. The polyphenolic compound can thus be curcumin, shown in its enol and
    keto forms:
                                            OH      HOOH
           HO
             CM3            0  OH            CH3     CH3           0     0            CH3
                     Enol form                            Keto form
            An anthocyanin, oenin, from the skin of purple grapes, is a polyphenol responsible
15  for giving colour to red wine:
                                                       OCH 3
                                                             OH
                                  HO0
                                      HO&         x      0CMOCH3        O
                                                                        OH
                                         OH       HO
                                                        HO
            Further examples of polyphenols relevant to the present invention include vescalin
    and its epimer castalin:

  WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   19
                                                    HO        OH
                                                              0
                                                             -H
                                               VescatIn Ri = OR. R = H
                                               Castalln Ri a H, Ra OH
             A further example of a polyphenol is a metabolite of an ellagitannin, urolithin A:
                                                   Urolithin A
             Yet further examples include tannic acid, pedunculagin, flavonols (such as
 5  quercetin, kaempferole, myricetin, rutin, isorhamnetin), flavanones (such as hesperidin,
    silibinin, eriodictyol), flavones (such as apigenin, luteolin), flavan-3-ols (such as
    catechins, theaflavin, thearubigins), anthocyanins (such. as pelargonidin, peonidin,
    cyaniding, delphinidin, malvidin, petunidin) isoflavones (such as daidzein, genistein,
    glycitein), hydroxycinnamic acids (such as caffeic acid, chlorogenic acid), oleuropein and
10  piceatannol.
             The lipophilicity of the polyphenolic compound can be modified in any suitable
    way. A preferred method for modifying the lipophilicity of the polyphenolic compounds
    is to add at lIast one nucleophile.
             As used herein, the term 'nucleophile' is intended to have the standard meaning in
15  the art, that being a species that donates an electron-pair to an electrophile to form a
    chemical bond in a reaction.
             The nucleophile can be any suitable nucleophile the addition of which would
    result in an increase in lipophilicity of the polyphenol. The nucleophile can thus be an
    alcohol, for example, a C2 -Cs alcohol, such as ethanol or n-butanol. The nucleophile can
20  also be a polyol, such as glycerol.

   WO 2014/071438                                                                 PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                      20
             The nucleophile can also be a substituted ethanol, such as hydroxytyrosol, which
     is found in olive leaves and olives:
                                                                       OH
                                          HO
                                                      OH
                                                       hydroxytyrosol
 5           The nucleophile can be an alkaloid, for example caffeine or nicotine:
                                  0
                                             N
                             N                                               H
                             O>              N
                                   N
           1,3,7-trimethyt-1H-pprine-2,6(3H,7H)-dione       3-[(2S)- I-methylpyrrolidin-2-ylpyridine
                           (caffeine)                                      (nicotine)
             Compounds as diverse -as ascorbic acid and polyacetylenes can also act as
10   nucleophiles. The nucleophile can itself be a polyphenol, for example an anthocyanin, or
     a curcuminoid. Other nucleophiles suitable for increasing the lipophilicity of polyphenols
     include catechin, itself a polyphenol:
                                                                        OH
                                             HO                 H       OH
                                                    OH
             Alternatively, the modification of polyphenols could be such that the polyphenol
15   is coupled to a pharmaceutical entity, thus providing possibly enhanced efficacy or a
     means for delivery/administration of both active constituents.

   WO 2014/071438                                                                              PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                              21
             Preferably, the modification of polyphenols by the addition of at least one
     nucleophile to produce a compound with increased lipophilicity, is undertaken under
     acidic conditions. It is particularly preferred that the nucleophilic addition is undertaken
     within the pH range of about pH 3 to about pH 4.5. The modification of a polyphenol to
 5   form a compound having increased lipophilicity is thus preferably undertaken by acid
     catalyzed nucleophilic substitution. The general reaction schemes for modification of oak
     ellagitannins such as vescalagin (acid-catalyzed nucleophilic substitution) and castalagin
     (acid-catalyzed Michael addition) are as follows:
                                            cOH                                                    C  Nu
                                           2         OH       * nucleophile                        2    O
                                Ellagic acidpH                   .3to p1-f4.5
                     Ellagte acid                      H    S -1 Nucteophilic    Eliagic acid            H
                       molety                OH                substitution        moiety
                                Vescalagin type structure
                                            ciOH                                                 ciiOH
                                                      OH     * nucleophile                       2
                                                                                            H
                                                             pH 3 to pH 4.5
                     Ellagic acid                      H                      Ellagic acid
                        moietyOH                                                moiety
                                                                                              RO     Nu
                                   Castalagin type structure
10           A specific example of such a reaction is the ethoxylation of vescalagin or
     castalagin, which can result in the addition of either one or two ethoxy groups to the 1
     galloyl moiety:

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                     22
                                         HO
                     -H                       OH
                                 H
                           HO          0
                                                        O0
                           HO
                                                        OH
                                                 *0
                                    HO                  0
                                         S0      0
                                                 H
                                 HO
                                         HO         0 OEt
                                         HO        OH
                                             H              ,whereR= HorEt
             Alternatively, the modification of polyphenols by the addition of at least one
   - nucleophile to produce a compound with increased lipophilicity, is undertaken under non
     acidic conditions such as pulsed electric field processing conditions or high salt
 5   environment.The modified polyphenolic compound can be in a substantially isolated,
     purified, pure, enriched, concentrated, extracted or homogeneous state, for example. That
     is, the modified polyphenolic compound can be an isolate, a concentrate or extract, etc.
             The modified polyphenolic compound can be in the form of a pro-drug, requiring
     in vivo and/or in vitro processing into a more physiologically active form.
10           According to a preferred embodiment, foods fortified with modified polyphenolic
     compounds according to the present invention comprise an amount of modified
     polyphenol sufficient to provide per day, the equivalent amount of modified polyphenols
     that would be obtained from about I g to about 12 g of oak chips. Foods fortified with
     modified polyphenolic compounds according to the present invention can therefore
15   comprise an amount of modified polyphenol sufficient to provide per day, the equivalent
     amount of modified polyphenols that would be obtained from about 1 g, 2 g, 3 g, 4 g, 5 g,
     6 g, 7 g, 8 g, 9 g, 10 g, II g or 12 g of oak chips. The food can be fortified to provide the
     modified polyphenol in one or more doses. For example, where the.fortified food is a
     beverage such as tea, and the tea is fortified with modified polyphenols to provide per
20   serve, the equivalent amount of modified polyphenols that would be obtained from about
     4 g of oak chips, up to three serves/day can be consumed.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   23
             Preferably the food is fortified to provide per day, in at least one dose, the
     equivalent amount of modified polyphenols that would be obtained from about 8 g of oak
     chips. It is particularly preferred that the food is fortified to provide the equivalent
     amount of modified polyphenols that would be obtained from about 4 g of oak chips in
 5   two serves/day.
             The inventors have also advantageously discovered that modification of a food
     can also be achieved to form adducts which provide beneficial mammalian health
     outcomes. Formation of such adducts results in a food product that provides enhanced
     mammalian health outcomes similarly to the enhancement achieved by the modified
10   polyphenolic compounds of the invention.
             Specifically, a food can be modified such that the lipophilicity of the food product
     is increased when compared to the lipophilicity of the unmodified food. Preferably, the
     food to be modified is intended for use as a beverage. Particularly preferred foods for
     modification to increase their lipophilicity are tea leaves or ground coffee.
15           Preferably, the modified food product is also fortified with modified polyphenolic
     compounds according to the present invention. According to a preferred embodiment,
     modified food products which are additionally fortified with modified polyphenolic
     compounds according to the present invention comprise .an amount of modified
     polyphenol sufficient to provide per day, the equivalent amount of modified polyphenols
20   that would be obtained from about I to 2 g of oak chips. Thus, where the food product is
     also modified, the amount of modified polyphenol required to achieve enhanced health
     outcomes is reduced compared to the amount required when the food product is
     unmodified.
             Any type of polyphenolic compound can be used in the preparation of modified
25   polyphenalic compounds according to the fifth aspect of the invention.           As detailed
     previously, the term 'polyphenol' is intended to be construed broadly, and as such,
     encompasses any-compound having more than one phenol moiety. It is preferred that the
     polyphenol compounds are natural products, such as ellagitannins, curcumins and
     anthocyanins, however, synthetic polyphenols can also be modified by the methods of the
30   invention to provide modified polyphenolic compounds which will provide enhanced
     mammalian health outcomes.

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   24
              Modification of the polyphenolic compound by at least one nucleophile results in
     a modified polyphenol having increased lipophilicity when compared to the lipophilicity
     of the unmodified polyphenol.       The nucleophile can thus be any suitable nucleophile.
     Preferably, the nucleophile is capable of undergoing acid-catalysed             nucelophilic
 5   substitution or acid-catalysed Michael addition with the polyphenol.
              As detailed, above, suitable nucleophiles include alcohols, preferably C2 -C9
     alcohols, such as ethanol and n-butanol but can also include substituted alcohols, such as
     hydroxytyrosol. The nucleophile can also be a polyol, such as glycerol. Alkaloids, such
     as caffeine and nicotine can behave as nucleophile, as can ascorbic acid and
10   polyacetylenes.
              In addition, polyphenols themselves can also behave as nucleophiles in acid
     catalysed nucelophilic substitution or acid-catalysed Michael addition to a polyphenol
     that is the same or different. For example, in one embodiment, the polyphenol may be an
     anthocyanin and the nucleophile may also be an anthocyanin, resulting in essentially an
15   anthocyanin dimer. As an example of an alternative embodiment, the polyphenol may be
     an anthocyanin and the nucleophile may be a curcuminoid, resulting in an anthocyanin
     curcuminoid adduct.
              Preferably, the acid-catalysed reaction takes place in an acidic solution having a
     pH within the range of about pH 3 to about pH 4.5.
20            The acid-catalysed reaction is allowed to proceed for a period of time sufficient
     for the one or more nucleophiles to react with the polyphenolic compound. Typically, the
     reaction can be allowed to proceed for about 2 days up to about 60 days. The reaction can
     therefore be allowed to proceed for about 2, 3, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55 or
     60 days.    Preferably, the reaction is allowed to proceed for about 21 days, after which
25   time almost all of the polyphenol has been converted to modified polyphenol and
     therefore has increased lipophilicity.
              Following completion of the acid-catalysed nucleophilic substitution or acid
     catalysed nucleophilic addition, the reaction mixture can be filtered or otherwise
     separated into its different components to remove any solid material. The solid material
30   can be precipitate that has formed during the reaction. In some embodiments, where oak

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   25
     chips are used as a source of polyphenol (C-glycosidic ellagtitannins), the oak chips are
     removed by filtration. Any suitable means of filtration known in the art can be utilized to
     filter the reaction mixture.
              The resultant filtrate, which contains the modified polyphenolic compound can
 5   then be evaporated using any suitable means known in the art. The filtrate can be
     evaporated to dryness. Preferably, the filtrate is evaporated, but not to dryness, resulting
     in a.concentrated solution of the modified polyphenolic compound. The filtrate can be
     evaporated to any desired level of concentration of the modified polyphenolic compound.
              The concentrate of the modified polyphenolic compound can be added to food to
10   produce a fortified food in accordance with the sixth aspect of the invention.           The
     concentrate can be added to any type of food to fortify that food. Particularly preferred
     examples of food that can be fortified according to the invention are tea leaves and
     ground coffee.
              For example, the concentrate can be added to tea leaves to form a slurry.
15   Following stirring of the slurry for about two to about three days, the slurry is then
     evaporated to dryness. The evaporation can be achieved using any suitable means known
     in the art. Preferably the evaporation to dryness is undertaken relatively slowly, over a
     period of two to three days.
              The concentrate can also be used to modify a food product in accordance with the
20   seventh aspect of the invention. For example, the concentrate can be added to tea leaves
     to form a slurry. Following stirring of the slurry for about 2 days to about 3 days, the
     slurry is then evaporated to dryness. The evaporation can be achieved using any suitable
     means known in the art. Preferably, the evaporation is undertaken on a drying bed with
     simultaneous flow of air to assist in drying the tea leaves. The resultant dry tea leaves are
25   not only fortified with modified polyphenol but components of the tea leaves are also
     modified.
              Compositions or food products of the invention can be used to prevent or treat any
     suitable type of medical condition, aging related conditions or to provide for a longer,
     healthier and happier life.
30            For example, the compositions or food products described in this invention could

  WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   26
     be used for acute inflammation, abdominal fat reduction, aging related conditions,
     aggression associated with dementia, alcohol consumption reduction, anti-inflammatory,
     alopecia, alopecia associated with chemotherapy, alopecia associated with TaxolT", anti
     depressant, anxiety, Alzheimer's disease, appetite suppression, arthritis, asthma,
 5   antioxidant deficiency, acne, alcoholic liver disease, appetite suppression, avian influenza
     (NF-KB), blood pressure (high), bronchial pneumonia recovery, body "fullness reduction",
     benign prostate hyperplasia, Barrett's esophagus, benign skin tumours, bowel motion
     issues, cancer, cancer (early stage), cancer (metastatic), cancer re-occurrence, cholesterol,
     chronic fatigue syndrome, chemotherapy side effect reduction, caffeine dependence
10   reduction, chemotherapy reduction, chemotherapy replacement, coffee consumption
     reduction, calming, chest infection recovery, carpal tunnel syndrome, compliance (poor),
     colds recovery, cold preventative, cold sores, chemotherapy "flu like symptoms" side
     effect prevention, chronic inflammation, cardiovascular disease, chronic inflammation
     management, compromised immune system, circulatory system diseases, cerebral malaria
15   (NF-iB), cysts, constipation, digestion, dietary food for terminally ill, dietary food for
    chemotherapy      patients,   dementia, dementia-related      behavior,   diabetes   mellitus,
    depression, digestive diseases, dry skin, exercise induced muscular stiffness, enlarged
     spleen pain, energy, erectile function, euphoria, eyesight improvement, eczema, enlarged
    prostate symptoms, erectile dysfunction, fertility, fatty liver, fingernail damage due to
20   chemotherapy, flu recovery, frozen shoulder, gout, gluten intolerance, gall stones, genital
    herpes, genital warts, hormone treatment side effect reduction, hospitalisation reduction,
    hypertension, hair re-growth, heart disease, HIV (NF-xB), hyperlipidemia, hangover
    treatment, nitric oxide deficiency diseases, headaches, insomnia, iritis, immune
    enhancement, infections, immunodeficiency disorders, indigestion, jubilation, joint pain,
25  joint     swelling, joint mobility, kidney             disease,    life extension,      libido
    enhancement/improvement, liver enzymes normalized, liver cysts, lung inflammation,
     liver disease, metabolic syndrome treatment, metabolic syndrome prevention, mental
     acuity, mental clarity, mood enhancenient, menstruation pain reduction, menstruation
    breast discomfort reduction, macular degeneration, motivation for exercise, medication
30  reduction, medication replacement, mobility improvement, memory performance,
    migraine prevention, male pattern baldness (PGD2 downstream of NF-KB), mental
     impairment, menopausal symptoms reduction, memory loss, mouth ulcers, mouth

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    27
     hygiene, NF-xB disorders, nitric oxide disorders, osteoarthritis, obesity, pain treatment,
     pain prevention, post traumatic stress disorder treatment, pain relief from bone cancer,
     pain relief, osteoarthritis, platelet count (B cell lymphoma), penicillin resistant infections
     recovery, pharmaceutical replacement, pain due to injury, prevention of weight gain,
 5   prevention of weight gain following breast cancer treatment, radiotherapy side effect
     reduction, relaxant, rheumatoid arthritis, skin improvement, stimulant, spleen pain (B cell
     lymphoma), scrotum sac tightening, sleep improvement, stool softening, stress, somatic
     disorders, skin healing, spondylosis pain relief, sexual dysfunction, sarcoidosis, swollen
     lympth glands, urinary tract infections, urine pH normalization, urea abnormalities, uric
10   acid disorders, vaginal lubrication, vaginal dryness, vision problems, weight loss, well
     tolerated with warfarin medication, wellness and work endurance improvement.
             Other non-limiting aspects and embodiments of the invention will become
     apparent from the following detailed description thereof.
             Preferred embodiments of the invention as defined herein are as follows.
15           In a first embodiment, the invention provides a modified polyphenolic compound,
     wherein a polyphenolic compound has been modified such that the lipophilicity of the
     modified polyphenolic compound is increased when compared to the lipophilicity of the
     unmodified polyphenolic compound.
             Preferably, the modified polyphenolic compound is a modified C-glycosidic
20   ellagitannin, a modified ellagitannin, a modified curcumin, a modified anthocyanin, a
     modified urolithin, a modified roburin, a modified tannin or a modified flavan-3-ol.
             More preferably, the modification to the polyphenolic compound is ethoxylation,
     such that the modified polyphenolic compound is an ethoxylated C-glycosidic
     ellagitannin, an ethoxylated ellagitannin, an ethoxylated curcumin, an ethoxylated
25   anthocyanin, an ethoxylated urolithin, an ethoxylated roburin, an ethoxylated tannin or an
     ethoxylated flavan-3-ol.
             It is particularly preferred that the modified polyphenolic compound is
     ethoxylated vescalagin or ethoxylated castalagin.
             In a second embodiment, the invention provides a modified polyphenolic
30   compound selected from the group consisting of modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins,

   WO 2014/071438                                                              PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                     28
     modified ellagitannins, modified curcumins, modified anthocyanins, modified urolithins,
     modified roburins, modified tannins and modified flavan-3-ols.
              Preferably, the modification is ethoxylation such that the modified polyphenolic
     compound is an ethoxylated C-glycosidic ellagitannin, an ethoxylated ellagitannin, an
 5   ethoxylated curcumin, an ethoxylated anthocyanin, an ethoxylated urolithin, an
     ethoxylated roburin, an ethoxylated tannin or an ethoxylated flavan-3-ol.
              More preferably, the modified polyphenolic compound is ethoxylated vescalagin
     or ethoxylated castalagin.
              In a third embodiment, the invention provides a composition comprising at least
10   one modified polyphenolic compound according to the first embodiment.
              Preferably, the composition is a -pharmaceutical composition, a fortified food
     product, a food product, a modified food product, a fortified beverage or a beverage.
              More preferably, the composition is a pharmaceutical composition, a food product
     or a modified food product.
15            In particularly preferred embodiments, the composition is fortified ground coffee,
     fortified black tea leaves, fortified green tea leaves or fortified red wine.
              Preferably, the fortification comprises modification of the food product or
     beverage components. More preferably the modification of the food product or beverage
     component is ethoxylation.
20            Preferably, the at least one modified polyphenolic compound is present in the
     composition in an amount of at least 0.5 % (w/w).
              The composition.can comprise 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 or
     17 modified polyphenolic compounds.
              Preferably, the composition comprises 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 modified polyphenolic
25   compounds.
              In particularly preferred embodiments, the composition comprises two modified
     polyphenolic compounds.

   WO 2014/071438                                                              PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  29
              In a fourth embodiment, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
     comprising at least one modified polyphenolic compound according to the first
     embodiment together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.
              Preferably, the at least one modified polyphenolic compound is present in an
 5   amount of at least about 0.5 % (w/w).
              The pharmaceutical composition can comprise 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
      13, 14, 15, 16 or 17 modified polyphenolic compounds.
              In particularly preferred embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprises
     two modified polyphenolic compounds.
10            In a fifth embodiment, the invention provides a food product comprising at least
     one modified polyphenolic compound of the first embodiment.
              Preferably, the at least one modified polyphenolic compound is present in an
     amount of at least 0.5 % (w/w).
              The food product of the fifth embodiment can comprise 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
15    11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 or 17 modified polyphenolic compounds.
              In particularly preferred embodiments, the food product comprises two modified
     polyphenolic compounds.
              The food product can be any type of food product, but particularly preferred are
     beverages, health bars, confectionary and baked goods.
20            In a sixth embodiment, the invention provides a fortified food product, wherein
     food has been fortified with at least one modified polyphenolic compound according to
     the first embodiment to form the fortified food product.
              The food product can be fortified with 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 4, 15,
      16 or 17 modified polyphenolic compounds.
25            In particularly preferred embodiments, the food product is fortified with one
     modified polyphenolic compound.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   30
             In a seventh embodiment, the invention provides a modified food product,
     wherein food has been modified such that a lipophilicity of the formed food product is
     increased when compared to the lipophilicity of the food.
             The food can be a solid food or a beverage. Preferably the food is ground coffee,
 5   black tea leaves, green tea leaves or red wine.
             In an eighth embodiment, the invention provides a method of producing a
     modified lipophilic polyphenolic compound, the method comprising the step of:
             exposing a polyphenolic compound to an acidic solution containing at least one
             nucleophile to form a reaction mixture such that the at least one nucleophile reacts
10           with the -polyphenolic compound in the reaction mixture to form a modified
             lipophilic polyphenolic compound.
             Preferably, the polyphenolic compound is a C-glycosidic ellagitannin, an
     ellagitannin, a curcumin, an anthocyanin, a urolithin, a roburin,' a tannin or a flavan-3-ol.
             Preferably, the acidic solution has a pH of 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3,
15   4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9 or 5.0.    In particularly -preferred embodiments, the acidic
     solution has a pH between 4.2 and 4.5.
             The at least one nucleophile is preferably selected from the group consisting of C2
     C8   alcohols, substituted CrCs alcohol, polyols, substituted polyols, alkaloids,
     polyacetylenes, ascorbic acid and polyphenols.
20           Preferably, the modification is ethoxylation, such that the modified lipophilic
     polyphenolic compound is an ethoxylated C-glycosidic ellagitannin, an ethoxylated
     ellagitannin, an ethoxylated curcumin, an ethoxylated anthocyanin, an ethoxylated
     urolithin, an ethoxylated roburin, an ethoxylated tannin or an ethoxylated flavan-3-ol.
             In a particularly preferred embodiment, the modified lipophilic polyphenolic
25   compound is ethoxylated vescalagin or ethoxylated castalagin.
             Optionally, the method can further comprise the step of isolating the ,modified
     lipophilic polyphenolic compound.
             The step of isolating can be undertaken by any suitable means known in the art.
     Such means can include chromatography, including column chromatography, flash

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    31
     column chromatography, liquid chromatography (LC) or high performance liquid
     chromatography (HPLC). The step of isolating can also be undertaken using fractionation.
             Alternatively, the method can optionally further comprise evaporation of the
     reaction mixture to obtain a concentrate comprising the modified lipophilic polyphenolic
 5   compound.
             In a ninth embodiment, the invention provides a method of manufacturing a food
     product comprising the step of:
             combining at least one modified lipophilic polyphenolic compound according to
             the first embodiment with food, to thereby form the food product.
10           The food product is preferably selected from the group consisting of beverages,
     health bars, confectionary and baked goods. In particularly preferred embodiments,. the
     food product is coffee, black tea or green tea.
             Preferably, the step of combining at least one modified lipophilic polyphenolic
     compound with food comprises the steps of:
15           (i)      addition of a solution comprising the at least one modified lipophilic
                      polyphenolic compound to ground coffee, black tea leaves or green tea
                      leaves to form a slurry;
             (ii)     mixing the slurry for a period of 2 to 3 days; and
             (iii)    drying the slurry.
20           The food product can be combined with 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
     15, 16 or 17 modified polyphenolic compounds. In particularly preferred embodiments,
     the food product is combined with one modified polyphenolic compound.
             The drying can be undertaken using any suitable means known in the art.
     Preferred methods for drying the slurry include evaporation to dryness under ambient
25   conditions or using heat to assist with the evaporation, a refractance window drying
     process (RWDP), which uses mild heating conditions, or drying on a drying bed under
     ambient or heated conditions.
             In a tenth embodiment, the invention provides a -method of manufacturing a
     modified food product, the method comprising the steps of:

   WO 2014/071438                                                             PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    32
              (i)     combining at least one modified lipophilic polyphenolic compound
                      according to the first embodiment, or when produced by the -method
                      according to the sixth embodiment, with food such that the food is
                      saturated with the at least one modified lipophilic polyphenolic compound;
 5                    and
              (ii)    drying the combined at least one modified lipophilic polyphenolic
                      compound and food so as to form a modified food product.
              The food can be combined with 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 or
     17 modified polyphenolic compounds. In particularly preferred embodiments, the food is
10   combined with one modified polyphenolic compound.
              The food can be a solid food or a beverage. Preferably the food is. ground coffee,
     black tea leaves, green tea leaves or red wine.
              The drying can be undertaken using any suitable means known in the art.
     Preferred methods for drying the slurry include evaporation to dryness under ambient
15   conditions or using heat to assist with the evaporation, RWDP, which uses mild heating
     conditions, or drying on a drying bed under ambient or heated conditions.
              In an eleventh embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating or
     preventing a medical condition in a subject, the method comprising the step of'
     administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a modified polyphenolic
20   compound of the first embodiment, a composition of the second embodiment or a food
     product of the fifth embodiment.
              Preferably, the medical condition is an aging-related condition, cancer including
     metastatic cancer, heart disease, metabolic syndrome, chronic inflammation, acute
     inflammation, chronic fatigue, obesity, erectile dysfunction, appetite suppression, a sleep
25   disorder, a urinary tract infection, asthma, enlarged prostate, excessive alcohol
     consumption, male pattern baldness or arthritis.
              More preferably, the medical. condition is cancer including metastatic cancer,
     metabolic syndrome, chronic inflammation, acute inflammation, erectile dysfunction or
     arthritis.

   WO 2014/071438                                                             PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                     33
              In a particularly preferred embodiment, the medical condition is metabolic
     syndrome.
              In a twelfth embodiment, the invention provides use of a modified polyphenolic
     compound of the first embodiment in the manufacture of a medicament for the prevention
 5   or treatment of a medical condition in a subject.
              Preferably, the medical condition is an aging-related condition, cancer including
     metastatic cancer, heart disease, metabolic syndrome, chronic inflammation, acute
     inflammation, chronic fatigue, obesity, erectile dysfunction, appetite suppression, a sleep
     disorder, a urinary tract infection, asthma, enlarged prostate, excessive - alcohol
10   consumption, male pattern baldness or arthritis.
              More preferably, the medical condition is cancer including metastatic cancer,
     metabolic syndrome, chronic inflammation, acute inflammation, erectile dysfunction or
     arthritis.
              In a particularly preferred embodiment, the medical condition is metabolic
15   syndrome.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
              Figure 1 is a schematic illustrating pathways relevant to the present invention.
              Figure 2 illustrates graphically the effects of ethoxylated vescalagin/castalagin
     rich extract (EVC) on oral glucose tolerance (A) and systolic blood pressure (B).
20            Figure 3 illustrates the effects of EVC on inflammation and fibrosis in the heart
     induced by high-fat diet (H) feeding.
              Figure 4 illustrates graphically the effects of EVC on vascular responses in rats.
              Figure 5 illustrates the effects of EVC on fat deposition, inflammation and fibrosis
     in rat livers.
25            Figure 6 illustrates the effects of EVC on expression of Nrf2 and NF-KB in the
     heart and the liver.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    34
              Figure 7 illustrates graphically the effects of EVC on systolic blood pressure,
     vascular contraction by noradrenaline, vascular relaxation by acetylcholine, and vascular
     relaxation by sodium nitroprusside in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and SHR
     supplemented with EVC.
 5            Figure 8 illustrates graphically the knee gait and knee joint widths for EVC black
     tea treated rats and untreated controls.
              Figure 9 illustrates graphically the knee gait and knee joint widths for EVC- coffee
     treated rats and untreated controls.
              Figure 10 illustrates graphically the effects of EVC CAT tarragon tea, PLA2 or
10   ibuprofen on systolic blood pressure of rats fed a high carbohydrate, high fat diet.
              Figure 11 illustrates graphically the effects of EVC CAT tarragon tea, PLA2 or
     ibuprofen on fat pad measurements of rats fed a high carbohydrate, high fat diet.
              Figure 12 illustrates graphically the effects of EVC CAT tarragon tea, PLA2 or
     ibuprofen on glucose tolerance of rats fed a high carbohydrate, high fat diet.
15            Figure 13 illustrates graphically the knee gait for EVC PC treated rats and
     untreated controls.
              Figure 14 illustrates graphically the knee joint widths for EVC PC treated rats and
     untreated controls.
              Figure 15 illustrates graphically the expression of RANKL and OPG in UMR 106
20   osteoblasts.
              Figure 16 illustrates graphically the knee gait for EVC purple carrot and
     elderberry treated rats and untreated controls.
              Figure 17 illustrates graphically the knee joint widths for EVC purple carrot and
     elderberry treated rats and untreated controls.
25           Figure 18 illustrates graphically the knee gait for EVC purple carrot and camu
     camu treated rats and untreated controls.
                                                                 Jr

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    35
              Figure 19 illustrates graphically the knee joint widths for EVC purple carrot and
     camu camu treated rats and untreated controls.
              Figure 20 illustrates graphically (A) knee gait and (B) knee joint widths for EVC
     PC fucoidan treated rats.
 5            Figure 21 illustrates the effect of EVC PC fucoidan on the total nucleated cell
     count in bronchial/alveolar lavage (BAL) fluid.
              Figure 22  illustrates the effect of EVC PC fucoidan on the neutrophil count in
     BAL fluid.
              Figure 23 compares the BAL from a mouse fed EVC PC fucoidan and the BAL
10   from an LPS positive control mouse.
              Figure 24 illustrates the effect of EVC PC fucoidan on alveolar macrophages in
     BAL fluid.
              Figure 25 illustrates the effect of EVC PC fucoidan on protein content in BAL
     fluid.
15            Figure 26 illustrates the effect of EVC PC fucoidan on TNFa concentration in
     BAL fluid.
              Figure 27 illustrates graphically (A) feed intake and (B) water intake for rats on
     cornstarch (CS, control), HCHF or HCHF+PCGTOIL diets.
              Figure 28 illustrates graphically (A) body weight, (B) % body weight gain, (C)
20   abdominal circumference, and (D) abdominal fat deposition in rats on cornstarch (CS,
     control), HCHF or HCHF+PCGTOIL diets.
              Figure 29 illustrates graphically (A) left ventricular weight, (B) left ventricular
     stiffnes, (C) systolic blood pressure (SBP), and (D) oral glucose tolerance in rats on
     cornstarch (CS, control), HCHF or HCHF+PCGTOIL diets.
25            Figure 30 illustrates graphically (A) body weight, (B) % body weight gain, (C)
     abdominal circumference, and (D) abdominal fat deposition in rats on CS, HCHF,
     HCHF+EVC PC fucoidan and HCHF+lemon lime tea+EVC PC fucoidan diets.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    36
              Figure 31 illustrates graphically (A) left ventricular weight, (B) left ventricular
     stiffness, (C) systolic blood pressure at 16 weeks, and (D) oral glucose tolerance in rats on
     CS, HCHF, HCHF+EVC PC fucoidan and HCHF+jemon lime tea+EVC PC fucoidan
     diets.
 5            Figure 32 illustrates the effect of EVC CAT wine tea extract on the PC-3 prostate
     cancer cell line.
              Figure 33 illustrates the effect of EVC CAT wine tea extract, seaweed extract and
     combined extracts of EVC CAT wine tea and seaweed on the PC-3 prostate cancer cell
     line.
10            Figure 34 illustrates the effect of EVC CAT wine tea extract, seaweed extract and
     combined extracts of EVC CAT wine tea and seaweed on nion-tumourigenic prostate cells.
              Figure 35 illustrates the effect of EVC-PCBC on the non-synchronised LNCaP
     prostate cancer cell line.
              Figure 36 illustrates the effect of EVC-PCBC on the non-synchronised MDA
15   PCa-2b prostate cancer cell line.
              Figure 37 illustrates the effect of EVC-PCBC on the non-synchronised MDA-MB
     231 breast cancer cell line.
              Figure 38 illustrates the effect of EVC-PCBC treatment on LNCaP prostate cancer
     cells following serum withdrawal.
20            Figure 39 illustrates the effect of EVC-PCBC treatment on PC-3 prostate cancer
     cells following contact inhibition.4
              Figure 40 illustrates the effect of EVC food extract on the J82 bladder cancer cell
     line.
              Figure 41 illustrates the effect of EVC food extract on the HT 1376 bladder cancer
25   cell line.
              Figure 42 illustrates the effect of EVC food extract on the AGS stomach cancer
     cell line.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                     37
              Figure 43 illustrates the effect of EVC food extract on the MDA-MB-468 breast
     cancer cell line.
              Figure 44 illustrates the effect of EVC food extract on the MDA-MB-231 breast
     cancer cell line.
 5            Figure 45 illustrates the effect of EVC food extract on the LS180 colon cancer cell
     line.
              Figure 46 illustrates the effect of EVC food extract on the DLD-1 colon cancer
     cell line.
              Figure 47 illustrates the effect of EVC food extract on the PC-3 prostate cancer
10   cell line.
              Figure 48 illustrates the effect of EVC food extract on the androgen insensitive
     LNCaP (AI-LNCaP) prostate cancer cell line.
              Figure 49 illustrates the effect of EVC food extract on the LNCaP prostate cancer
     cell line.
15            Figure 50* illustrates the effect of EVC-EFOOD TEA treatment on Panc 5.04
     pancreatic cancer cells.
              Figure 51. illustrates the effect of EVC-EFOOD TEA treatment on LNCaP prostate
     cancer cells.
              Figure 52 illustrates the effect of EVC-EFOOD TEA treatment on PC-3 prostate
20   cancer cells.
              Figure 53 illustrates the effect of EVC-EFOOD TEA treatment on DU 145 prostate
     cancer cells following contact inhibition.
              Figure 54 compares the effect of (A) EVC food extract/CS and (B) EVC food
     extract on the LNCaP prostate cancer cell line.
25            Figure 55 compares the effect of (A) EVC food extract/CS and (B) EVC food
     extract on the LNCaP prostate cancer cell line.

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    38
             Figure 56 compares the effect of (A) EVC food extract/CS and (B) EVC food
     extract on the PC3 prostate cancer cell line.
             Figure 57 shows the effect of EVC blueberry juice blend on DNA synthesis.
             Figure 58 shows the effect of EVC blueberry juice blend (EVCB) on'the
 5   expression of cell cycle regulatory proteins.
             Figure 59 illustrates the effect of EVC blueberry juice blend on the expression of
     pre-replicative complex proteins.
             In order that the invention may be more readily understood and put into practice,
     one or more preferred embodiments thereof will now be described, by way of example
10   only.
                    BEST MODE FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
             As mentioned above, the inventors have discovered that ethoxylating C-glycosidic
     ellagitannins under acidic conditions results in modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins which
     have an improved taste profile, the modified C-glycosidic ellagitannins produce broad
15   and profound health outcomes in mammals, and food products comprising the modified
     C-glycosidic ellagitannins are particularly useful in the prevention and treatment of
     diseases linked to NF-KB regulation and nitric oxide deficiency.
             Physiological    pathways    relevant   to  the  present  invention   are  depicted
     schematically in Figure 1.        Specifically, naturally occurring polyphenols, such as
20   vescalagin, are water soluble, but are not particularly palatable, being highly tannic in
     flavor. Ethoxylation under acidic conditions at pH 3.0 to 4.5 results in ethyl vescalagin,
     which is more lipophilic than vescalagin, and therefore is a fat-soluble polyphenol, and
     effectively a pro-drug.
             In a highly acidic, environment, for example, at pH 1.8, as would be found in the
25   mammalian stomach or an artificial bioreactor, ethyl vescalagin is 'digested' to give
     ellagic acid (a water-soluble polyphenol), which is poorly absorbed and ethyl vescalin (a
     fat-soluble polyphenol), which can travel via the bloodstream to the target or organ.

   WO 2014/071438                                                               PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                      39.
             A general procedure for the preparation of the modified oak C-glycosidic
     ellagitannins, where the modification is ethoxylation, preferably entails the following
     steps:
     (i)     extracting oak C-glycosidic ellagitannins from oak wood chips using an acidic
 5   ethanolic solution; and
     (ii)    treating the extract to remove any remaining alcohol, thereby obtaining a mixture
     of ethoxylated oak C-glycosidic ellagitannins.
             Extraction of the oak wood chips using an acidic ethanolic solution as in step (i)
     results in ethoxylation of about 50 % up to about 95 % of the oak C-glycosidic
10   ellagitannins present in the oak wood chips. Thus, extraction of oak wood chips using an
     acidic ethanolic solution can result in ethoxylation of about 50 %, about 55 %, about
     60 %, about 65 %, about 70 %, about 75 %, about 80 %, about 85 %, about 90 %, or
     about 95 % of the oak C-glycosidic ellagitannins present in the oak wood chips. The oak
     wood chips can be from any suitable oak species, including European'red oak, (Quercus
15   robur Q.petraea), North American white oak (Q. alba), French oak (Q. robur, Q.petraea)
     and Japanese oak (Lithocarpus glaber). A preferred oak for use in the invention, is
     European oak, which contains about five times more C-glycosidic ellagitannins than
     American oak.
             Preferably, the oak wood chips are toasted, or are prepared from toasted oak,
20   however, untoasted oak wood chips or oak wood chips prepared from untoasted oak can
     also be used.
             Preferably, the acidic ethanolic solution used in step (i) is within the pH range of
     about pH 3.0 to about pH 4.5, and the extraction period is within the range of about 10
     days to about 30 days. The acidic ethanolic solution can thus have a pH of 3.0, 3.1, 3.2,
25   3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 or 4.5, and the extraction period can
     be foi 10, 11, 12, 13,14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 or 30
     days. Particularly preferred is an extraction period of about 20 days (to achieve optimal
     ethoxylation).
             Preferably the acidic ethanolic solution comprises about 20 % to about 100 % v/v
30   food-grade alcohol. The acidic ethanolic solution can thus comprise about 20 %, about

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    40
     30 %, about 40 %, about 50 %, about 60 %, about 70 %, about 80 % or about 90 % v/v
     food-grade alcohol.
             Treatment of the extract from step (i), to remove alcohol remaining after the
     extraction, as in step (ii), can be undertaken using any suitable method known in the art.
 5   Preferably, the remaining alcohol can be removed by distillation.         In a particularly
     preferred embodiment, the distillation is vacuum distillation.
             The general procedure can optionally include the introduction of one or more
     anthocyanins to the extraction mixture of step (i).         The addition of one or more
     anthocyanins results in ethoxylated C-glycosidic ellagitannins and C-glycosidic
10   ellagitannin-anthocyanin adducts.
             Alternatively, the general procedure can optionally include the introduction of one
     or more curcumins to the extraction mixture of step (i). The addition of one or more
     curcumins results in ethoxylated C-glycosidic ellagitannins and C-glycosidic ellagitannin
     curcumin adducts.
15           In a further alternative, the general procedure can optionally include the
     introduction of one or more curcumins and one or more anthocyanins to the extraction
     mixture of step (i). The addition of one or more curcumins and one or more anthocyanins
     results in ethoxylated C-glycosidic ellagitannins, C-glycosidic ellagitannin-curcumin
     adducts and C-glycosidic ellagitannin-anthocyanin adducts.
20           By way of illustration only, preferred embodiments of the present invention are
     described in detail, with reference to the following series of examples.
             Note that it was necessary to carry out human trials and these trials were all
     carried out in secrecy/in confidence.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE EXAMPLES
25           Example 1. EVC successfully treats and prevents metabolic syndrome.
             Example 2. Low dose EVC superior to high dose ellagic acid in treatment and
     prevention of metabolic syndrome.
             Example 3. EVC/non-ethoxylated ground coffee combination successfully treats

  WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  41
     and prevents metabolic syndrome.
              Example 4.     Well tolerated, high dose EVC/ethoxylated black tea successful
     outcomes in metabolic syndrome, cancer, arthritis, gout, cholesterol, less exercise induced
     muscular stiffness, enlarged spleen pain, bronchial pneumonia recovery, chronic fatigue
 5   syndrome, mental acuity, alertness in evening, more energy, more motivation for exercise,
     erectile function improvement, weight loss, reduced chemotherapy side effects, alopecia
     associated with chemotherapy.
              Example 5. High dose EVC/ethoxylated ground coffee successful and rapid
     treatment of arthritis.
10            Example 6. High dose EVC/ethoxylated green tea as a palatable beverage option.
              Example 7. Medium dose EVC/ethoxylated black tea production process results
     in natural de-caffeination.
              Example 8.     Medium dose EVC/ethoxylated ground coffee production process
     results in natural de-caffeination.
15            Example 9.     Ethoxylation process conditions with caffeinated foods results in
     caffeine reduction and improved anti-inflammatory capability.
              Example 10. Medium dose EVC/non-ethoxylated 'instant coffee is pleasant, well
     tolerated and provides successful results in osteoarthritis pain relief, medication
     replacement and a feeling of wellness.       Also outlined is the production process for
20   EVC/ethoxylated instant coffee.
              Example 11.      Medium dose EVC fortified wines are pleasant tasting, well
     tolerated and result in reduced muscle stiffness associated with exercise.
              Example 12. Versatile EVC/grape powder for beverage, food additive and dietary
     supplement applications.
25            Example 13. Versatile EVC/purple carrot powder for beverage, food additive and
     dietary supplement applications.
              Example 14. EVC incorporated into-actively growing fruit.

   WO 2014/071438                                                        PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  42
             Example 15. EVC incorporated into post-harvest fruit.
             Example 16.     EVC incorporated into beer formulations to produce beer with
     improved taste profiles, well tolerated and with successful health outcomes namely,
     medication replacement, gout and arthritis.
 5           Example 17.      EVC incorporated into onion and garlic powders and their
     applications as a food additive and dietary supplement.
             Example 18.     Versatile EVC/non-ethoxylated cocoa powder for beverage, food
     additive and dietary supplement applications. Also outlined is the production process for
     EVC/ethoxylated cocoa.
10           Example 19. Fractionation of EVC and its application as a flavouring and dietary
     supplement.
             Example 20. Hydrolysed EVC gel production and applications.
             Example 21. Suboptimal metabolic syndrome results when oak/catechin compete
     with ethoxylated oak       production   and implications  when    coffee and   chocolate
15   combinations are tested.
             Example 22.       Low dose non-ethoxylated      American oak/ethoxylated green
     tea/ethoxylated olive leaf extract formulation as a palatable beverage option and
     favourable metabolic syndrome outcomes superior in respect to hypertension and
     comparable to phospholipase A2 inhibitor and ibuprofen in respect to other metabolic
20   syndrome parameters. Human testimonial on fertility.
             Example 23..     Low dose EVC/ethoxylated purple carrot formulation delivers
     favourable health outcomes, namely arthritis and migraine prevention.
             Example 24. Low dose EVC/ethoxylated purple carrot formulation prevented the
     increase in RANKL:OPG ratio that characterizes osteoporosis.
25           Example 25. Medium dose EVC/non-ethoxylated purple carrot wine is pleasant
     tasting, well tolerated and produces favourable health outcomes, namely with respect to
     chronic fatigue syndrome and arthritis.
             Example 26.     Medium dose EVC/ethoxylated turmeric formulation is pleasant

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   43
     tasting, well tolerated and produces favourable health outcomes, namely with respect to
     cancer, libido improvement, cold/flu avoidance, eczema, alopecia, hair re-growth,
     immune enhancement, reduction of "flu like symptoms" with chemotherapy and rapid
     recovery from penicillin resistant infections.
 5            Example 27.      Low dose EVC/non-ethoxylated purple carrot and elderberry
     combination with favourable arthritis results.
              Example 28.      Low dose EVC/non-ethoxylated purple carrot and camu camu
     combination with favourable arthritis results.
              Example 29. Low dose EVC/non-ethoxylated purple carrot/fucoidan formulation
10   with excellent arthritis results.
              Example 30. High dose EVC/ non-ethoxylated purple carrot/fucoidan formulation
     in lipopolysaccharide-mediated acute lung inflammation.
              Example 31.      Suboptimal metabolic syndrome results (notably abdominal fat
     reduction) when oak/green tea catechin hybrids compete with ethoxylated oak production
15   in this formulation that also incorporates omega-3 oil.
              Example 32. Suboptimal metabolic syndrome results when oak/green tea catechin
     hybrids compete with ethoxylated oak production in this instant tea formulation.
              Example 33.     Suboptimal cancer results when oak/green tea catechin hybrids
     compete with ethoxylated oak production in this instant tea formulation.
20            Example 34.     Medium dose EVC/ethoxylated turmeric formulation is pleasant
     tasting, well tolerated and produces favourable health outcomes, namely for cancer, pain
     associated with bone cancer, cold sores, ulcers, moods and dementia.
              Example 35.       Medium dose EVC/non-ethoxylated food extract formulation
     produces significant results in cancer re-occurrence in-vitro/human and favourable health
25   outcomes in cancer, life extension, dementia, aggression associated with dementia, cold
     sores, ulcers and pain associated with bone cancer.
              Example 36. Low dose EVC/ethoxylated food extract is unpleasant tastewise, but
     is well tolerated and produces significant health outcomes in cancer.

   WO 2014/071438                                                        PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                 44
              Example 37. Low dose EVC/ethoxylated food extract/non-ethoxylated green tea
     formulation produces significant health outcomes in cancer.
              Example 38.    Low dose EVC/ethoxylated food extract (Example 35) cancer
     results are improved by the addition of anthocyanin rich fruit juice concentrates to the
 5   formulation.
              Example 39.    Low dose EVC/non-ethoxylated food extracts/ethoxylated food
     extracts/anthocyanin rich non-ethoxylated fruit juice concentrates with significant cancer
     results.
                                           EXAMPLES
10            Example 1. EVC successfully treats and prevents metabolic syndrome.
              This example describes the preparation of ethoxylated vescalagin/castalagin rich
     extract (EVC) and use- of the extract in the treatment and prevention of metabolic
     syndrome.
              Materialsand methods
15            Ethoxylated vescalagin/castalaginrich extract (E VC)
              European oak wood (Querces petraea Liebl) was converted into chips (1 kg) and
     extracted for 6 months at room temperature in grape brandy (4 kg, pH 3:5, containing
     62 % v/v alcohol). The resultant alcoholic extract was filtered to remove the solid
     material and; de-alcoholised in a vacuum distiller to 25 % of its original voluine. The
20   resultant extract is an ethoxylated vescalagin/castalagin rich extract, named EVC. The
     resultant de-alcoholised extract (1 kg) was derived from I kg oak chips, and is thus
     designated EVC 1:1.
              The EVC was analysed by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS)
     employing electrospray mass spectrometry and ultraviolet detection. The analysis was
25   performed on a Micromass Quattro micro tandem quadrupole mass spectrometer (Waters,
     Manchester, UK). LC separation was provided by a Waters liquid chromatograph (Waters,
     Milford, USA), consisting of a 2,695 separation module and 2,487 dual-wavelength
     ultraviolet detector. Data were acquired by the Masslynx data system for both the MS
     and ultraviolet data. For LC, a flow rate of I mL/min was used with 0.1 % aqueous

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   45
      formic acid and methanol as solvent and injection volume of 20 ptL. For UV detection,
      254 and 280 nm wavelengths were used.
               Pure castalagin, vescalagin, grandinin and roburin E were used as the monomer
      standards in this procedure.      There were 20 % uncertainties in the measurements of
 5    ellagitannins derived from the contributions of the uncertainties in the preparation and
      analysis of the standards and samples.
               The chemical profile of the EVC with respect to monomeric oak ellagitannins is
      set out in Table 1.
               Table 1.
    monomeric oak ellagitannin                      amount in EVC (mg/mL)
    Vescalagin                                       1.2
     Castalagin                                     0.8
    Roburin E                                       0.8
     Grandinin                                       2
    Ellagic acid                                     0.1
10
               The total monomeric oak ellagitannins in the EVC is thus 4.9 mg/mL. The EVC
      was tested in high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet-induced metabolic syndrome in rats as
      detailed below.
               Rats and diets
15             Male Wistar rats (8 weeks old, weighing 3282 g, n40) and male spontaneously
      hypertensive rats (SHR) (42 weeks old, weighing 4226 g, n=20) were used.
               Male Wistar rats were randomly divided into four experimental groups and were
      fed with either cornstarch diet (C; n=10), cornstarch diet+EVC (0.5 mL/kg food; CE;
      n=10), high-carbohydrate,       high-fat diet (H; n=10) or high-carbohydrate,     high-fat
20    diet+EVC (0.5 mL/kg food; HE; n=10) for 16 weeks.          CE and HE rats were fed with
      respective diets for the first 8 weeks without EVC; EVC was supplemented in the diets of
      CE and HE rats for the last 8 weeks of the protocol. Compositions-of H and C diets used
       in this study are as previously described in Panchal SK, Ward L and Brown L, 'Ellagic

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   46
     acid attenuates high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet-induced metabolic syndrome in rats', Eur.
     J. Nutr., DOI: 10.1 007/s00394-012-0358-9 (2012).
              Male adult SHR with high and stable systolic blood pressure were divided into
     two groups of 10 rats each, one without treatment (S) and one with EVC treatment in diet
 5   (SE; 0.5 mL/kg in food) for 12 weeks. All SHR were fed on standard powdered chow
     diet (Specialty Feeds, Glen Forest, WA, Australia). All rats were given ad libitum access
     to food and water and were individually housed in temperature-controlled 12-hour light
     dark conditions. Energy intakes were calculated as previously described in Pancahl SK et
     al. (2012).
10            Physiologicalmeasurements
              Body weight, food and water intakes were measured daily for all rats. Abdominal
     circumference and body length were measured at the end of the protocol using a standard
     measuring tape under light anaesthesia with Zoletil (tiletamine 10 mg/kg, zolazepam 10
     mg/kg, i.p.). Energy intake, body mass index and feed efficiency were calculated as
15   previously described in Pancahl SK et al. (2012).
              Systolic bloodpressure measurements
              Systolic blood pressure of rats was measured at the end of the protocol under light
     anaesthesia with Zoletil (tiletamine 10 mg/kg, zolazepam 10 mg/kg, i.p.), using an
     MLT 1010 Piezo-Electric Pulse Transducer and inflatable tail cuff connected to a MLT844
20   Piezo-Electric Pressure Transducer and PowerLab data acquisition unit as previously
     described in Pancahl SK et al. (2012).
              Echocardiography
              Echocardiographic    examinations (Phillips iE33,     12-MHz transducer) were
     performed in all rats at the end of protocol as previously described (Panchal SK et al.
25   (2012)).     Briefly, rats were anaesthetized using Zoletil (tiletamine 25 mg/kg and
     zolazepam 25 mg/kg, i.p.) and Ilium Xylazil (xylazine 15 mg/kg, i.p.) and positioned in
     dorsal recumbency. Electrodes attached to the skin overlyingthe elbows and right stifle
     facilitated the simultaneous recording of a lead If electrocardiogram (Panchal SK et al.
     (2012)).
30

  WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                47
            Body composition measurements
            Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometric measurements were performed at the end of
    the protocol using a Norland XR36 DXA instrument under anaesthesia with Zoletil
    (tiletamine 25 mg/kg and zolazepam 25 mg/kg, i.p.) and Ilium Xylazil (xylazine 15 mg/kg,
 5  i.p.). Scans were analysed using the manufacturer's recommended software for use in
    laboratory animals (Small Subject Analysis Software, version 2.5.3/1.3.1). The precision
    error of lean mass for replicate measurements, with repositioning, was 3.2 %.
            Oral glucose tolerance test
            At the end of the protocol, rats were deprived of food for 12 h for oral glucose
10  tolerance testing. During this food deprivation period, fructose-supplemented drinking
    water in H and HE groups was replaced with normal drinking water. Oral glucose
    tolerance tests were performed after determining basal blood glucose concentrations in
    tail vein blood using Medisense Precision Q.I.D. glucose meters. Rats were given a
    glucose load of 2 g/kg body weight as 40 % glucose solution via oral gavage and blood
15  glucose concentrations were measured again 30, 60, 90 and 120 min after oral glucose
    administration (Panchal SK et al. (2012)). Blood glucose concentrations over the period
    of 120 min were used to calculate area under the curve.
            Terminal experiments
            Rats were euthanised with Lethabarb (pentobarbitone sodium, 100 mg/kg, i.p.).
20  After euthanasia, heparin (200 IU) was injected through the right femoral vein. The
    abdomen was then opened and blood (5 mL) was withdrawn from the abdominal aorta
    and collected into heparinised tubes. Blood was centrifuged at 5,000 g for 15 min to
    obtain plasma. Hearts were removed and were used as an isolated Langendorff heart
    preparation.
25          Isolated Langendorffheartpreparation
            The isolated Langendorff heart preparation assessed left ventricular function of the
    rats in all the groups as in previous studies (Panchal SK et al. (2012)). Hearts isolated
    from euthanised rats were perfused with modified Krebs-Henseleit bicarbonate buffer
    bubbled with 95    % 02-5    % CO2 and maintained at 35 'C. Isovolumetric ventricular
30  function was measured by inserting a latex balloon catheter into the left ventricle

  WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  48
     connected to a Capto SP844 MLT844 physiological pressure transducer and Chart
     software on a Maclab system. All left ventricular end-diastolic pressure values were
     measured during pacing of the heart at 250 beats/min using an electrical stimulator. End
     diastolic pressures were obtained from 0 to 30 mmHg for the calculation. of diastolic
 5   stiffness constant (j, dimensionless) as described in previous studies (Panchal SK et al.
     (2012)).
              Vascular reactivity
             Thoracic aortic rings (4 mm in length; n= 1--12 from each group) were suspended
     in an organ bath filled with Tyrode physiological salt solution bubbled with 95 % 02- 5 %
10   CO2 , maintained at 35 *C and allowed to stabilise at a resting tension of 10 mN.
     Cumulative concentration-response curves (contraction) were obtained for noradrenaline
     and cumulative concentration-response curves (relaxation) were obtained for sodium
     nitroprusside and      acetylcholine  following   submaximal      (70 %) contraction    to
     noradrenaline (Panchal SK et al. (2012)).
15           Organ weights
             After isolated heart perfusion studies, hearts (n=8-9 from each group) were
     separated into left ventricles (with septum) and right ventricles and weighed. Livers
     (n=8-9 from each group) were isolated and weighed. Retroperitoneal, epididymal and
     omental abdominal fat pads were removed separately and weighed. These organ weights
20   were normalised against the tibial length (48.20.1 mm, n=35) at the time of organ
     removal and expressed as mg/mm of tibial length (Panchal SK et al. (2012)).
             Histology
             Histology of the heart
             Hearts were removed from the rats (n=3 from each group) soon after euthanasia
25   and these hearts were fixed in 10 % neutral buffered formalin for 3 days. The samples
     were then dehydrated and embedded in paraffin wax.            Thin sections (5 tm) of left
     ventricle were cut and stained with -haematoxylin and eosin to study infiltration of
     inflammatory cells and picrosirius red to study collagen deposition (Panchal SK et al.
     (2012)).

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  49
              Histology ofthe liver
              Liver portions were isolated (n=3) and fixed in 10 % neutral buffered formalin for
     three days. These tissue samples were dehydrated and then embedded in paraffin wax.
     Thin sections (5 pm) of these tissues were cut and stained with haematoxylin and eosin
 5   for the determination of inflammatory cell infiltration (20 x) and for determining the fat
     vacuoles (40 x) in liver. Liver sections were also stained with Milligan's trichrome stain
     to determine portal fibrosis (20 x) (Panchal SK et al. (2012)).
              Plasma biochemistry
              Plasma concentrations of total cholesterol and triglycerides were determined using
10   kits and controls supplied by Olympus using an Olympus AU 400 analyser (Panchal SK
     et al. (2012)).
              Non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) in plasma were determined using a commercial
     kit (Wako, Osaka, Japan).       Plasma activity of alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate
     transaminase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and the
15   concentrations of albumin, total bilirubin, urea and uric acid were determined using kits
     and controls supplied by Olympus using an Olympus analyser (AU 400, Tokyo, Japan)
     (Panchal SK et al. (2012)).        Plasma C-reactive protein (BD Bioscience, Brisbane,
     Australia)    concentrations   were   measured    using commercial      kits  according  to
     manufacturer-provided standards and protocols.
20            Regulatoryprotein levels in the heart and the liver
              Heart and liver samples isolated from rats (n=3 from each group) were stored at
     80 "C. These samples were homogenised and sonicated after adding cell lysis buffer
     followed by ultracentrifugation at 100,000 g for 30 min at 4 'C. Supernatants were used
     to measure protein concentration in each sample by bicinconinic acid method (Thermo
25   Scientific). Supernatants with equal protein amounts (40 pg) from each group were used
     in Western blot analysis to study the protein levels of CPT-1, Nrf2 (antibodies from Santa
     Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA), NF-jB (antibody from Cell Signaling Technology,
     Danvers, MA) and      s-actin (antibody  from Sigma-Aldrich Corp., St. Louis, MO) in the
     heart and the liver.
30

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    50
             Statistical analysis
             Values are presented as meanSEM.           Results were tested for variance using
     Bartlett's test and variables that were not normally distributed were transformed (using
     log 10 function) prior to statistical analyses. All the groups were tested for effects of diet
 5   (D), treatment (E) and their interactions (D x E) by two-way ANOVA.         When interaction
     and/or the main effects were significant, means were compared using Newman-Keuls
     multiple comparison post-test.      Mean EVC intakes between CE and HE groups were
     compared using Student's t-test.       P<0.05 was considered significant.      All statistical
     analyses were performed using GraphPad Prism version 5.00 for Windows.
10           Results
             Table 2 details the daily intake of ellagitannins in EVC-treated rats.
             Table 2.
    Components of EVC                  CE                 HE               SE
    EVC (iL)                            16.410.37        10.660.48       15.210.23
    Vescalagin (pg)                     19.700.44        12.790.57       18.250.28
    Castalagin (ig)                     13.130.30        8.520.38        12.170.19
    Grandinin ( tg)                    32.830.74         21.31+0.95       30.420.46
    Roburin E (pg)                      13.13+0.30        8.52+0.38        12.170.19
    Total ellagitannin intake (ptg)    78.791.77         51.15+2.29       73.001.11
    Ellagic acid (ig)                   1.640.04         1.070.05        1.520.02
     *CE cornstarch diet+EVC-fed rats; HE high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet+EVC-fed rats;
     SE SHR supplemented with EVC
15           Values are meanSEM and n=10 for each group.             Daily intake of EVC and
     individual monomer ellagitannins from tested monomer EVC extract was calculated
     based on the daily intake of food.
             Table 3 details the effects of EVC on H-induced (high carbohydrate, high fat)
     physiological, metabolic and oxidated stress variables in C, CE, H and HE rats.
20

WO 2014/071438                                                       PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                 51
            Table 3.
 Variables                        C                  CE         H             HE
 Physiological variables
     Initial body weight (g)      3347              3298      3329         3366
     Final body weight (g)        4241 1bc          401 6c     51010a       4 4 0 +8b
     Water intake (mL/day)        30.20.6a          31.50.4a  20. 1+0.4b    18.60.5c
     Food intake (g/day)          30.70.7a          32.80.8a  2 2 .50.8b    22.3 .0b
     Energy intake (kJ/day)       34510             365 11'   47915a       47616a
     BMI (g/cm 2)                 0 .7 0   0.0 1b    0.650.01c 0.780.01a    0 .6 9 0.0 1b
     Feed efficiency (g/kJ)       0 . 2 6 +0. 0 2b   0.200.01c 0.370.02a    0 .2 2  0. 0 1bc
     Abdominal circumference      21.4+0.3           19.60.2c  23.80.3a     20.0+0.2c
 (cm)
     Abdominal fat pads (mg/mm    4 0 7 + 4 8b       20631     80553.       415+47b
 tibial length)
 Metabolic variables
     Basal blood glucose          4.20.2b           3.8+0.2bc  4.90.2"      3.30.2c
 (mmol/L)
     AUC (mmol/L min)             6 8 8  13 '       626,18c    76812a       664+16
     Plasma total cholesterol     1.50.1b           1.30. 1b  2.00.1a      1.40. 1b
 (mmol/L)
     Plasma triglycerides         0 .4+0.1           0.4+0. 1b  0.90. Ia     0.50.1 b
     Plasma non-esterified fatty  1.3b0.1               g0.1b   2.60.2a       1.4g0.1
 acids (mmol/L)
     Plasma urea (mmol/L)         5 .50.3           6.10.3a   3.40.2c      4.8+0.3b
     Plasma uric acid (imol/L)    35.21. 8 b        37.22.1   52.62.6a     33.11 .9b
 Oxidative stress and
 inflammatory markers
     Plasma malondialdehyde       27.1 1.1b          27.5    .0 31.51.2"     28.01.2b
 (ptmol/L)
     Plasma glutathione           1153a                ,32a    8027b          1032
 peroxidase activity (U/L)        1,165+39a          1,135268  88027         1,06327a
     Plasma C-reactive protein    2 .6 0  0. 1 3 bc 3.270.17a 2.760.08b    2.360.10c
   *C cornstarch diet-fed rats, CE cornstarch diet+FEVC-fed rats; H high-carbohydrate,

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                     52
      high-fat diet-fed rats; HE high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet+EVC-fed rats. Values are
      meanSEM and n=8-10 for each group. Means without a common letter differ, P<0.05.
              The effects of EVC on oral glucose tolerance (A) and systolic blood pressure (B)
      are shown in Figure 2. The values indicated are meanSEM and n=10 for each group.
 5    End-point means without a common letter differ, P<0.05.
              D, E and DxE represent effects of diet, EVC and interaction of diet and EVC. C
      represents cornstarch diet-fed rats, CE re-presents cornstarch diet+EVC-fed rats, H
      represents high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet-fed rats, and HE represents high-carbohydrate,
      high-fat diet+EVC-fed rats.
10            The effects of EVC on cardiovascular and hepatic variables in H-induced
      metabolic syndrome in C, CE, H and HE rats are detailed in Table 4.
              Table 4.
    Variables                           C               CE             H              HE
    Cardiovascular variables
        LVIDd (mm)                      6 .4 6 0. 16 '  6 .4 0 0. 15b  7.210.20a     6.560.18a
        LVPWd (mm)                      1.580.03b      1.600.04b     1.750.05a     1 .6 6 +0. 0 5ab
        Systolic volume (pL)            54.65.1        50.24.0       115.1+4.8a     5 8.94. 1
        Relative wall thickness         0.490.01       0.480.01      0.490.01      0.490.01
        Fractional shortening (%)       53.21.3a       52.21.4a      42 .41.0      51.01.5a
        Ejection fraction (%)           85.11.2a       82.6+1.4a      73.01.1"      82.1.1.4a
        Estimated left ventricular      0.69+0.02 b     0.680.02       0.820.033     0.71+0.02
    mass (g)
        Left ventricular + septum wet   20.10.8        19.40.7.      22.50.8a      19.90.6"
    weight (mg/mm tibial length)
        Right ventricular weight        4.10.3         4.30.3        4.50.4        4.20.3
    (mg/mm tibial length)
        Left ventricular diastolic      19.10.8c       18.40.9c      28.21.1a      2 2 .8+0.8
    stiffness constant, ic
    Hepatic variables
        Liver wet weight (mg/mm     -265+10'                          2979a         256      0
    tibia length)
        Plasma ALT (U/L)                3 5 .6 0 .7 '   32.50.6c      48.20.6a      36.gb

   WO 2014/071438                                                              PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                      53
        Plasma AST (U/L)                    75.14.8         77.85.3      101.26.6a     82.35.9'
        Plasma ALP (U/L)                    16515'          17215'       25720a         19218'
        Plasma LDH (U/L)                    22020"          20622'       45128a        262+25'
        Plasma albumin (g/L)                27.90.3         28.10.3      28.50.3       28.00.3
        Plasma total bilirubin              2.00.1l         1.90.        2.5+0.1a       2.0+0.1
     (pmol/L)
       *C cornstarch diet-fed rats; CE cornstarch diet+EVC-fed rats; HE high-carbohydrate,
      high-fat, diet-fed rats; HE high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet+EVC-fed rats. Values are
      meanSEM and n=8-1 0 for each group. Means without a common letter differ, P<0.05.
               The effects of EVC on inflammation and fibrosis in the heart induced by H
 5    feeding are illustrated in Figure 3. Haematoxylin and eosin staining of left ventricle
      showing infiltration of inflammatory cells, where the inflammatory cells are seen as dark
      spots in A - cornstarch diet-fed rats, B - cornstarch diet+EVC-fed rats, C - high
      carbohydrate, high-fat diet-fed rats, and D - high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet+EVC-fed
      rats.
10             Picrosirius red staining of the left ventricle showing collagen deposition is marked
      as fi (fibrosis) and hy (hypertrophied cardiomyocytes) in E - cornstarch diet-fed rats, F
      cornstarch diet+EVC-fed rats, G - high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet-fed rats, and H - high
      carbohydrate, high-fat diet+EVC-fed rats.
               The effects of EVC on vascular responses in rats are shown in Figure 4. The
15    vascular responses in thoracic aortic rings from C, CE, H and HE rats monitored are (A)
      noradrenaline-induced contraction, (B) acetylcholine-induced relaxation and (C) sodium
      nitroprusside-induced relaxation. The values indicated are meanSEM and n= 10 for each
      group. End-point means without a common letter differ, P<0.05.
               D, E and DxE represent effects of diet, EVC and interaction of diet and EVC,
20 .  respectively. C represents cornstarch diet-fed rats, CE represents cornstarch diet+EVC
      fed rats, H represents high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet-fed rats, and HE represents high
      carbohydrate, high-fat diet+EVC-fed rats.
               The effects of EVC on fat deposition, inflammation and fibrosis in rat livers are
      shown in Figure 5.       Haematoxylin and eosin staining of liver showing enlarged fat
25    vacuoles marked as 'fv' in A - cornstarch diet-fed rats, B - cornstarch diet+EVC-fed rats,

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                     54
     C   - high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet-fed rats, and D     -  high-carbohydrate, high-fat
     diet+EVC-fed rats. Inflammatory cells marked as 'in' in E - cornstarch diet-fed rats, F
     cornstarch diet+EVC-fed rats, C&- high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet-fed rats, and H - high
     carbohydrate, high-fat diet+EVC-fed rats. Milligan's Trichrome staining of hepatic portal
 5   regions showing fibrosis marked as 'fi' in I - cornstarch diet-fed rats, J - cornstarch
     diet+EVC-fed rats, K - high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet-fed rats, and L - high
     carbohydrate, high-fat diet+EVC-fed rats.
             The effects of EVC on expression of Nrf2 and NF-icB in the heart (A) and liver (B)
     are shown in Figure 6. For quantitative analysis, the expression of these proteins was
10   normalized against the expression of -actin in the heart (C) and the liver (D). Values are
     meanSEM and n=3.          Means without a common letter differ, P<0.05.      C represents
     cornstarch diet-fed rats, CE represents cornstarch diet+EVC-fed rats, H represents high
     carbohydrate, high-fat diet-fed rats, and HE represents high-carbohydrate, high-fat
     diet+EVC-fed rats.
15           The effects of EVC on cardiovascular structure and function in SHR are detailed
     in Table 5.
             Table 5.
    Variables                                                     S                 SE
    LVIDd (mm)                                                    8.010.28         7.050.22*
    LVPWd (mm)                                                    1.860.08         1.720.06
    Systolic volume (pL)                                          1384             1124***
    Relative wall thickness                                       0.540.01         0.530.01
    Fractional shortening (%)                                     32.21.2          38.51.4**
    Ejection fraction (%)                                         68.1+1.0          74.61.2***
    Estimated left ventricular mass (g)                           0.960.04         0.820.04*
    Left ventricular + septum wet weight (mg/mm tibial length)    28.20.8          25.3+0.6**
    Right ventricular weight (mg/mm tibial length)                4.50.3           4.50.2
    Left ventricular diastolic stiffness constant, x              32.41.3          28.61.1*
             Values are meanSEM and n=10 for each group.         * versus S differ P<0.05, **
     versus S differ P<0.01, and *** versus S differ P<0.001
20           The effects of EVC on (A) systolic blood pressure, (B) vascular contraction by

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   55
     noradrenaline, (C) vascular relaxation by acetylcholine, and (D) vascular relaxation by
     sodium nitroprusside in SHR (S) and SHR supplement with EVC (SE) are shown in
     Figure 7.
             Discussion
 5           The results show that an ellagitannin mixture extracted from European oak
     produces both cardiac and liver protection as well as improved metabolic profile in high
     carbohydrate, high-fat diet-fed Wistar rats. In addition, EVC improved cardiovascular
     structure and function in SHR.
             H feeding in rats leads to the development of signs of metabolic syndrome and
10   associated end-organ damage.         H rats developed abdominal obesity, hypertension,
     dyslipidaemia and impaired glucose tolerance.. These changes were accompanied by
     cardiovascular remodelling and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (Panchal SK et al. (2012)).
     Thus, rats fed with H diet are suitable as a model to demonstrate the major changes found
     in human metabolic syndrome (Panchal SK et al. (2012)).
15           The reduced plasma malondialdehyde concentrations and increased plasma
     glutathione peroxidase activity along with increased expression of Nrf2 in both the heart
     and the liver strongly support an antioxidant mechanism. Without wishing to be bound by
     theory, the inventors believe that the antioxidant activity of ellagitannins may lead to
     higher nitric oxide bioavailability by removal of superoxide, leading to reduction in blood
20   pressure.
             Increased expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), as shown with
     punicalagin    in hypercholesterolaemic      mice,   would     also increase  nitric  oxide
     bioavailability. Further, the improvement in vascular relaxation responses of EVC-treated
     rats is supportive of a reduction in blood pressure, especially the improvement in
25   acetylcholine-induced relaxation, by a response dependent on endothelium-derived nitric
     oxide.
             The results indicated that the anti-inflammatory mechanism is supported by the
     lower expression of NF-mB, lower infiltration of inflammatory cells in the heart and lower
     collagen deposition in EVC-treated rats.       These outcomes are associated with lower
30   ventricular stiffness, possibly improving ventricular. function.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   56
              The hepatoprotective responses with oak-derived ellagitannins are shown by
     reduced plasma activities of transaminases, attenuation of fat deposition and fibrosis, and
     inhibition of infiltration of inflammatory cells in the liver. The altered expression of NF
     KB and Nrf2 in the liver confirms the antioxidative and anti-inflammatory effects of
 5   ellagitannins from EVC. Thus, ellagitannins derived from oak wood ameliorated the
     changes associated with diet-induced cardiovascular remodelling and non-alcoholic fatty
     liver disease probably by both antioxidant and anti-inflammatory mechanisms.
              EVC-treated rats presented improved metabolic parameters including lower
     abdominal fat deposition and improved glucose tolerance, as well as protection of the
10   heart and the liver.
              It is possible that decreased oxidative stress and inflammation may be at least
     partially responsible for improving metabolic parameters.
              The improved cardiovascular parameters were also measured in adult SHR, the
     genetic model of choice to mimic human essential hypertension with extensive
15   cardiovascular remodelling.        EVC-treated rats had lower systolic blood pressure,
     ventricular collagen deposition and diastolic cardiac stiffness.
              Improvement in vascular responses in EVC-treated SHR also suggests higher
     bioavailability of nitric oxide. Hence, the results with SHR support the cardioprotective
     roles of ellagitannins derived from oak wood.
20            Example 2. Low dose EVC superior to high dose ellagic acid in treatment
     and prevention of metabolic syndrome.
             A study by Panchal et al., (Panchal SK et al. (2012)), investigating the effect of
     ellagic acid on high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet-induced metabolic syndrome in rats found
     that ellagic acid improved hepatic and cardiovascular structure and function, and
25   normalized metabolic parameters such as glucose tolerance, blood lipid components,
     central obesity and physiological parameters such as body weight.
              In addition, there was a reduction in abdominal fat deposition without any change
     in whole-body fat, indicative of the lipid redistribution seen following consumption of a
     linolenic acid-rich chia seeds. In the rats with metabolic syndrome, the redistribution of

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   57
     fat was accompanied by a reduction in blood lipid components, hepatic steatosis and
     increased fatty acid oxidation. There was also observed an attenuation of oxidative stress
     and inflammation in the heart and liver.
             The authors thus concluded that high-carbohydrate,          high-fat diet-induced
 5   symptoms of metabolic syndrome in rats were reversed by ellagic acid, accompanied by
     changes in protein levels of Nrf2, CPTI and NF-icB.         The results indicate that these
     proteins play important roles in the damage associated with metabolic syndrome and that
     targeting these proteins with natural products can attenuate the complications in metabolic
     syndrome.
10           Table 6 provides a ready comparison of the results in a mammalian model of
     metabolic syndrome of EVC and ellagic acid.
             Table 6. Effects of EVC (HEVC) and ellagic acid (HEA) supplementation on
     physiological and metabolic variables in high-carbohydrate, high fat diet-fed rats
             Variables                                       HEVC           HEA
             Physiological variables
                Initial body weight (g)                      3366          3362
                Final body weight (g)                        4408          4732
                Water intake (mL)                            18.65         19.00.4
                Food intake (g)                              22.31         21.00.4
                BMI (g/cm 2 )                                0.690.01      0.720.02
                Feed efficiency (g/kJ)                       0.220.01      0.310.02
                Abdominal circumference (cm)                 20.00.2       21.30.3
                Abdominal fat pads (mg/mm tibial             41547         52029
             length)
             Metabolic variables
                Basal blood glucose (mmol/L)                 3.30.2        3.90.2
                AUC (mmol/L min)                             66416         69611
                Plasma total cholesterol (mmol/L)            1.40.1        1.50.1
                 Plasma triglycerides (mmol/L)               0.50.1        0.5 0.1
                 Plasma non-esterified fatty acids           1.40.1        1.70.2
             (mmol/L)

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   58
             Variables                                       HEVC            HEA
                Plasma urea (mmol/L)                         4.80.3         6.20.4
                Plasma uric acid (pmol/L)                    33.11.9        44.33.8
                Plasma C-reactive protein (pmol/L)           2.360.10       2.400.07
             From this summary of the results, in can be seen that EVC outperformed ellagic
     acid in final body weight, abdominal pad pads, basal blood glucose, AIC (area under the
     curve), plasma non-esterified fatty acids, plasma urea and plasma uric acid. In the other
 5   parameters EVC performed similarly to ellagic acid.
             It is important to take into account the doses of EVC and ellagic acid when
     comparing the results of these two products in the same model of metabolic syndrome.
     Specifically, the dose of ellagic acid used in Panchal et al. (2012), was 0.8 g/kg food,
     which equates to a total daily intake of 35.6 mg/kg of pure ellagic acid. In contrast, in the
10   present case, the feeding dose of EVC was 0.5 mL/kg food with the EVC comprising total
     monomeric oak ellagitannins of 4.9 mg/mL. The benefit of EVC in the mammalian
     model of metabolic syndrome is thus clearly evident, particularly when it is considered
     that the EVC-supplement diet contained 0.14 % (0.05115 mg/35.6 mg) equivalent of
     measured total ellagitannin content compared to the ellagic acid-supplemented diet
15   (almost 700 times less) but achieved greater or similar health outcomes.
             Example 3.      EVC/non-ethoxylated ground coffee combination successfully
     treats and prevents metabolic syndrome.
             This example describes the results of a rat diet supplemented- with (a) non
     ethoxylated ground arabica coffee and (b) ethoxylated vescalagin/castalagin rich extract
20   (EVC) and non-ethoxylated ground arabica coffee. The diets were fed to rats having
     high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet-induced metabolic syndrome.
             The EVC was prepared as described in Example 1. Data for various health
     outcomes are presented in Table 7.

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   59
               Table 7.
                                           HCHF (high
                        CS (cornstarch fat, high                              HCHF+coffee/
     Health
     Out                diet)              carbohydrate      HCHFcoffee         VC
     Outcomes           N=8                diet)             N=10             N=9
                                           N=10
     SBP* (8 weeks)
                        120.72.4          143.73.8         137.71.5        142.62.8
     (in mmHg)
     SBP (12 week)
                        123.51.1          148.23.4         132.91.3        128.73.1
     (mmHg)
     SBP (16 weeks)     128.41.3          152.84.8         126.52.1        121.72.6
    -(mmHg)
     Fasting blood
     glucose (16        3.90.2            4.70.3           4.30.1          4.10.1
     weeks) (mM)
     Waist
     circumference      19.10.7           23.20.4          24.10.8         21.90.3
     (cm)
     Abdominal fat
     pads (mg/mm        39530             79957            78874           53455
     of tibial length)
                        686               1559             17831           13415
     msse body fat
     Whole body         3145              3505             31015           32311
     lean mass (g)
               * SBP - systolic blood pressure
               From the data in this table, it can be seen that supplementing the diet in a rat
      model of metabolic syndrome with an EVC/non-ethoxylated coffee combination results in
 5    beneficial health outcomeswhen compared with untreated rats.            Thus, EVC/non
      ethoxylated coffee suppleiention results in favourable health outcomes, namely
                          1. Treatment and prevention of metabolic syndrome
                         2. Lowering systolic blood pressure, back to normal
                          3. Lowering fasting blood glucose
10                       4. Reducing waist circumference
                          5. Reducing abdominal fat pads

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  60
                         6. Reducing whole body fat mass
                         7. Increasing whole body lean mass
              Supplementation with the antioxidant rich coffee produced favourable results with
     respect to lowering of systolic blood pressure and fasting blood glucose. However, the
 5   EVC/non-ethoxylated coffee combination was superior in these two (2) parameters and
     all other aspects of metabolic syndrome.
             Example 1 details the results of untreated and EVC-treated rats with high
     carbohydrate, high fat diet- induced metabolic syndrome. While the EVC/non-ethoxylated
     coffee combination does exhibit favourable health outcomes, when a comparision is-made
10   against EVC, the addition of non-ethoxylated coffee to EVC does reduce efficacy in all
     aspects of metabolic syndrome.
             'Example 4. Well tolerated/high dose EVC ethoxylated black tea successful
     outcomes in metabolic syndrome, cancer, arthritis, gout, cholesterol, less exercise
     induced muscular stiffness, enlarged spleen pain, bronchial pneumonia -recovery,
15   chronic fatigue syndrome, mental acuity, alertness in evening, more energy, more
     motivation for exercise, erectile function improvement, weight loss, reduced
     chemotherapy side effects, alopecia associated with chemotherapy.
             This example describes the preparation of ethoxylated oak rich black tea, wherein
     components of the black tea are also ethoxylated. The tea provides the equivalent of 6 g
20   oak/1.5 g serve and is given the name EVC black tea (6 g oak/1.5 g serve).
             Materials and methods
             EVC black tea (6 g oak/i. 5 g serve)
             Aqueous ethanol solution (4 kg, 50 % w/w) with pH 3.5 was added to French oak
     chips (1 kg) and allowed to stand for a period of 21 days. The mixture was then filtered
25   and the subsequent filtrate evaporated using vacuum distillation to 25 % of its original
     volume. That is, the French oak extract (4 kg) was evaporated by vacuum distillation to
     give 1 kg of extract (EVC extract).      The resultant de-alcoholised extract (1 kg) was
     derived from I kg oak chips, and is thus designated EVC 1:1.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    61
              The EVC 1:1 extract was added to loose leaf black tea at a ratio of 4 parts EVC
     1:1 extract to I part black tea. This amount of extract is sufficient to saturate the tea. The
     EVC extract/tea leaf mixture was then dried on a stainless steel shallow tank (bed) heated
     to a surface temperature of about 55 *C. Ambient temperature air was forced over the
 5   mixture to assist with drying, which was undertaken over a period of 2 to 3 days.
              The EVC black tea (6 g oak/1.5 g serve) was tested in adjuvant-induced arthritis
     (AIA) rats as detailed below, with particular focus on movement disability and knee size
     swelling.
              Rats
10            AIA in rats is widely used in preclinical testing of new agents for arthritis. The
     AIA model share's many features with human arthritis and is characterized by reliable,
     rapid onset and progression of a robust and easily measurable inflammation, marked bone
     resorption and periosteal bone proliferation (Bendele AM, 'Animal models of rheumatoid
     arthritis', J. Musculoskel. Neuron. Interact., 2001; 1(4):377-385).
15            Arthritis was induced in the right knee of 6-7 week old female rats by two
     immunisations, 7 days apart (days -21 and -14) with methylated bovine serum albumin
     (mBSA) (0.5 mg) in Freund's complete adjuvant containing 0.375 mg Mycobacterium
     tuberculosis followed by an intra-articular injection of mBSA (0.5 mg) into the right knee
     (day 0). Saline was injected into the left knee to serve as an internal control.
20            Dietary treatment with EVC black tea (6 g oak/1.5 g serve) was commenced on
     day -2 and continued for 16 days. Knee joint widths of both the right and left knee were
     measured with digital calipers daily. Gait was also assessed. A scale of 0-4 was used,
     whereby O=normal movement; I=doesn't hold up leg but limps when moving; 2=may
     hold leg up and when moving will use leg; 3=holding leg up all the time and when
25   moving will use leg occasionally; 4=holding leg up all the time and when moving remains
     up all the time.
              Results
              Rats provided with EVC black tea (6 g oak/1.5 g serve) in their diet showed less
     restriction of leg movement post-arthritis induction when compared to untreated controls,
30   as shown in Figure 8. In addition, rats provided with EVC black tea (6 g oak/1.5 g serve)

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  62
     in their diet showed similar reductions in right knee joint width compared to untreated
     controls, as can also be seen from Figure 8.
              Human testimonials
              The results from human volunteers who incorporated EVC black tea (6 g oak/1.5
 5   g serve) into their diet are detailed below.
              Male (M), 54 (years old), 5 g tea/day (2 min brewing time) over a 4-week period.
     Prostate cancer metastasis to bone, new diagnosis, obesity. Has commenced hormone
     treatment, but too early to obtain an updated PSA result. Dieting, extensive exercise (20
     km bike rides per, day) and tea consumption has resulted in weight loss from 151 kg to
10    128 kg. Reported reduced muscle stiffness within 3 days of tea commencement.
              M, 43, 5 g tea/day (1.5 min steeping time) over a 4-week period. Gout, abdomen
     pain, lethargic. Boxing coach stopped gout medication due to abdomen pain derived from
     a liver issue. Two weeks later started the tea and found no gout incidents in the joints.
     Feeling more motivated, with a more positive outlook, while on the tea. Reports more
15   sharpness mentally.
              Female (F), 43, 4 g tea/day (2 min steeping time) over a 3-week period. Lower
     back pain mitigated following one week tea consumption.
              M, 59, 3 g tea/day (1.5 min brewing time) over a 2-week period. Arthritis pain in
     the fists. Reports pain relief with 1 week of tea consumption.
20            F, 53, 7 g tea/day (2 min brewing time) over an 8-week period. Non-Hodgkin
     lymphoma (B Cell lymphoma) first diagnosed in 2001.           Metastasis in lymph glands.
     Despite very high dose, tea is well tolerated. Prior to tea consumption, treatment include
     successful chemotherapy and less successful stem cell replacement.       Prognostic cancer
     marker serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH),activity fell 6 % over a 5-week period. LDH
25   285 H U/L (30 August 2012) and LDH 268 HI U/L (2 October 2012). Cholesterol fell
     from 6.4 H mmol/L to 5.8 mmol/L. Enlarged spleen causing pain was mitigated with tea
     consumption. Reports feeling very well with this high dose tea consumption.
              F, '42, 4.5 g tea/day (1.5 min brewing time) over a 12-week period.           Tea
     consumption assisted in recovery from bronchial pneumonia and long-term chronic

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  63
     fatigue symptoms. More energy and more motivation to exercise, such as walking to and
     from work.
             M, 45, 4.5 g tea/day (1.5 min brewing time), over a 12-week period. Generally
     lethargic, with aches and pain associated knee arthritis.       Reported erectile function
 5   improvement. Lost 4 kg during first 6 weeks. More active at sport, followed by more
     alertness in the evening. Well tolerated, more energy and feeling of wellness reported.
             F, 61, 7 g tea/day (2 min steeping time), 36 g/day EVC chocolate fudge (1 g
     oak/12 g serve), 50 g/day EVC Turmeric (4.5 g turmeric, 3.75 g oak/30 mL serve) over a
     3-week period. Stage 4 ovarian cancer with lung, liver and lymph node metastasis. 2011
10   TaxolTM chemotherapy resulted in 3 to 5 day hospitalization following treatment and total
     head hair loss and fingernail cracking in 2 weeks. Cancer Biomarker CA 125 measured
     on 11 October 2012 was 292 U/mL. Commenced the tea on 14 October 2012 and
     TaxolTM treatment on 15 October 2012. CA 125 (1 November 2012) reduced to 69 U/mL
     considered by doctor to be an excellent outcome particularly when compared with 2011
15   TaxolTM treatment. No side effects experienced with this current chemotherapy, and after
     3 weeks still holding a full head of hair. Noted that fingernails were not cracked as they
     were with 2011 treatment.
             These results provide evidence for the first time that the ethoxylation of French
     oak, without the presence of catechins as is widely reported in the literature (e.g. Quideau
20   S., 'Chemistry and Biology of Ellagitannins: An Underestimated Class of Bioactive Plant
     Polyphenols',    World Scientific, 2009) produces superior health outcomes with
     surprisingly good palatability. The ethoxylation of the black tea substrate is also novel
     and adds to the palatability of the composition.
             Example 5. High dose EVC/ethoxylated ground coffee successful and rapid
25   treatment of arthritis.
             This example describes the preparation of ethoxylated oak rich coffee, wherein
     components of the coffee are also ethoxylated. The coffee provides the equivalent of 6 g
     oak/6 g serve and is given the name EVC coffee (6 g oak/6 g serve).

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  64
             Materialsand methods
             E VC coffee (6 g oak/6 g serve)
             Aqueous ethanol solution (4 kg, 50 % w/w) with pH 3.5 was added to.French oak
     chips (1 kg) and allowed to stand for a period of 21 days. The mixture was then filtered
 5   and the subsequent filtrate evaporated using vacuum distillation to 25 % of its original
     volume. That is, the French oak extract (4 kg) was evaporated by vacuum distillation to
     give 1 kg of extract (EVC 1:1 extract).
             The EVC extract was added to ground Arabica coffee at a ratio of 2 parts EVC 1:1
     extract to 3 parts ground coffee. The EVC extract/ground coffee mixture was then dried
10   on a stainless steel shallow tank (bed) heated to a surface temperature of about 55 *C for a
     period.of 2 to 3 days. Ambient temperature air was forced over the mixture to assist with
     drying.
             The EVC coffee was tested was tested in AIA rats as detailed below, with
     particular focus on movement disability and knee size swelling.
15           Rats
             The rats and dietary treatment are as described above in Example 4.
             Results
             As shown in Figure 9, rats provided with EVC coffee (6 g oak/6 g serve) in their
     diet showed less restriction of leg movement post-arthritis induction when compared to
20   untreated controls. In addition, rats provided with EVC coffee (6 g oak/6 g serve) in their
     diet showed similar reductions in knee joint width compared to untreated controls, as can
     also be seen from Figure 9.
             Discussion
             Both EVC coffee (6 g oak/6 g serve) and EVC black tea (6 g oakl1.5 g serve)
25   resulted in improvement of gait and swelling in the AIA rat model. However, as can be
     seen from a comparison of Figure 8 and Figure 9, the effect of EVC coffee was
     significantly, stronger than that of EVC black tea, even though the rats were given the
     same quantity of EVC 1:1 in their diet.

 WO 2014/071438                                                             PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   65
             Example 6. High dose EVC/ethoxylated green tea as a palatable beverage
    option.
             This example describes the preparation of ethoxylated oak rich green tea, wherein
    components of the green tea are also ethoxylated. The green tea provides the equivalent
 5  of 6 g oak/1.5 g serve and is given the name EVC green tea (6 g oak/1.5 g serve).
             Materialsand methods
             EVC green tea (6 g oak/I. 5 g serve)
             Preparation of EVC 1:1 extract is described in Example 4.
             The EVC 1:1 extract was added to green tea at a ratio of 6 parts EVC to 1.5 parts
10  green tea. The EVC extract/green tea mixture was then dried on a stainless steel shallow
    tank (bed) heated to a surface temperature of about 55 'C for a period of 2 to 3 days.
    Ambient temperature air was forced over the mixture to assist with drying.
             The EVC green tea was taste tested.
             Results
15           Despite the typical tannic/grassy nature of green tea and its somewhat poor ability
    to be a substrate for other tannic/bitter food constituents, the heavily oaked EVC green tea
    was surprisingly palatable.      The odour and taste of oak was slightly detectable and
    acceptable, but with the addition of flavouring (for example, 5% terpene-based steam
    distilled oil, such as lime or lemon oil) was not apparent in either taste or smell.
20           Example 7.      Medium dose EVC/ethoxylated black tea production process
    results in natural de-caffeination.
             This example describes the preparation of ethoxylated oak rich black tea, wherein
    components of the black tea are also ethoxylated. The black tea provides the equivalent
    of 4 g oak/1.5 g serve and is given the name EVC black tea (4 g oak/1.5 g serve).
25           Tea is pleasant tasting; well tolerated and produces successful health outcomes,
    namely with respect to life extension, cancer, metabolic syndrome, pain relief from bone
    cancer, arthritis, gout, reduction/replacement of medications, erectile function, improved
    libido, reduced chemotherapy, hormone treatment and radiotherapy side effects and

 WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  66
    hospitalisation, improved mobility, weight loss, cholesterol improvement, liver enzymes
    normalized, euphoria, feeling of jubilation, skin improvement, anxiety, mental clarity, less
    exercise induced muscular stiffness, mood enhancement, scrotum sac tightening, reduced
    the urge for coffee, calming, reduced body "fullness", benign prostate hyperplasia,
 5  anxiety reduction, chest infection recovery, post traumatic stress disorder treatment, sleep
    improvement, insomnia, improved energy levels, pain and breast discomfort associate
    with menstruation, appetite suppression, improved work endurance, carpal tunnel
    syndrome, liver cysts, eyesight improvement, iritis, reduced alcohol consumption, faster
    recovery from colds, improved digestion, improved memory performance, stimulant and
10  macular degeneration.
            Materialsand methods
            EVC black tea (4 g oak/i.5 g serve)
            Preparation of EVC 1:1 extract is described in Example 4.
            The EVC 1:1 extract was added to black tea at a ratio of 4 parts EVC to 1.5 parts
15  black tea. The EVC extract/black tea mixture was then dried on a stainless steel shallow
    tank (bed) heated to a surface temperature of about 55 'C for a period of 2 to 3 days.
    Ambient temperature air was forced over the mixture to assist with drying.
            Steam distilled oil (lemon/lime, spearmint or peppermint) to be used as flavouring
    was sprayed onto dried EVC black tea in a rotating drum mixer for 30 minutes and then
20  packed into foil bags. The resultant product, lemon/lime black tea, spearmint black tea or
    peppermint black tea is equivalent to 4 g French oak/1.5 g serve.
            Results
            Human testimonials
            The results from human volunteers who incorporated EVC black tea (4 g oak/1.5
25  g serve) into their diet are detailed below, wherein LL=lemon lime oil, SP=spearmint oil
    and P=peppermint oil.
            M, 57, 6 g LL tea/day (30 s steeping time) over a 4-week period. Well tolerated.
    Drug-like euphoria, no pain after gym exercise, drank less coffee (from 8 down to 1
    cup/day), no diuretic effect, fixation on purple vegetables.

  WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  67
             M, 69, 4 g LL tea/day (1 min brewing time, however not drinking fine sediment at
     bottom of cup) over a period of 17 weeks. Gout, low-grade prostate cancer, Warfarin.
     Tea is well tolerated with Warfarin.     Previously found that low dose allopurinol not
     working with gout issues. Replaced the allopurinol with the tea and reports no incidence
 5  'of gout. Euphoria and a feeling of happiness with tea. However not noticing arthritis
     pain relief. Diagnosed with prostate cancer almost 7 years ago - no surgery but
     successful radiation treatment. PSA levels. have historically been as low as 0.1.      No
     hormone treatment as PSA levels are low.          PSA doubling over last 12 months is
     considered by urologist as a negative outcome, however still on "watchful waiting".
10   October 2012, PSA of 1.73; May 2012, PSA 1.1; November 2011, PSA 0.85.
             M, 70, 87 kg, 9 g SP tea for 6 days. Used the same cup, no straining of the tea
     leaves. That is, previously steeped leaves remain in cup and fresh leaf added to it.
     Diagnosed non-metastatic prostate cancer, awaiting radical prostectomy, no treatment, no
     supplements. PSA doubles.over a 4-month period (PSA 5 (11 November 2010); PSA 5.8
15   (4 April 2011); PSA 7.10 (5 September 2011); PSA 10 (25 January 2012)). On EVC
    black tea (4 g oak/ 1.5 g serve) for the period 5-10 March 2012. PSA 5.4 (11 March 2012)
    represents a halving of PSA associated with a 6-day intervention of the tea. Well tolerated.
             M, 72, 3 g LL tea (2 min steeping time) for 11 days. PSA history is a doubling
    every 6 months. 6 months ago PSA 5.1, 11 days on the tea prior to .blood test, PSA
20  remained steady at PSA 5.7. Subsequent 6 month PSA test of 7.4 considered a good
    outcome by urologist. Well tolerated.
             M, 55, 4.5 g SP tea for 2 weeks. Euphoria, improved erectile function. Well
    tolerated.
             F, 61, 6 g LL tea/day (1.5 min. steeping time) over a 14-week period. Stage 4
25  ovarian cancer with lung, liver and lymph node metastasis. Responded well with 2011
     chemotherapy (including Taxotere TM , Carboplatin and Paclitaxel), with cancer antigen
    protein (biomarker) CA 125 reducing from about 300 U/mL to 12 U/mL.                In most
     laboratories, the normal value is less than 35 U/mL.       Patient's chemotherapy to re
    commence when two conditions are met, namely (a) doubling of the CA 125 cancer
30  marker in a -6-week period and (b) minimum of 72 U/mL reading of CA 125.
     Commenced tea consumption on 12 June 2012 at about 3 g/day, increasing to 6 g/day

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  68
     after 7 days. CA 125 result is 25 U/mL (6 June 2012). CA 125 result increased slowly
     with tea consumption to 53 U/mL (24 July 2012) and then to 66 U/mL (28 August 2012).
     Oncologist expected to start chemotherapy in August 2012, but the criteria of CA 125
     reading of 72 U/mL minimum was not met. In the next 4-week period prior to the next
 5   blood test, F, 61 consumes the tea for 1 week and has no tea for the subsequent 3 weeks.
     During this non-compliance period the CA 125 biomarker rises 4-fold to 270 U/mL (28
     September 2012).
              F, 52, 3 g LL tea/day (3 min steeping time) for 2 weeks. Occupation - cleaner,
     arthritis in hands, sore thumbs. Tea helped with hands, can make fist now, can hold a
10   vacuum cleaner. Well tolerated.
              M, 55, 4.5 g tea/day (3 min steeping time). No flare-up or body pain while on the
     tea. Underactive thyroid, test for lupus but negative. History of testicular cancer. Well
     tolerated.
              M, 38, 7.5 g SP tea/day (3 min steeping time) for 3 weeks. Fit, active, ex-military.
15   Sclerosis and degenerative neck, causing. pain, arthritis. Pain relief in 8 days. Stopped
     taking tea for 5 days, pain came back. Well tolerated.
              F, 62, 4.5 g LL tea/day (3 min steeping time) for 24 weeks. Metastatic breast
     cancer - breast cancer with bone metastasis. Started tea on 28 February 2012. Cancer
     marker CA15-3 was 32 U/mL (17 February 2012), 26 U/mL (16 March'2012), 24 U/mL
20   (28 July 2012), considered now in the safe zone. Taking salmon oil and vitamin C. No
     bone pain (from cancer), better mobility and reported that she felt very well while on the
     tea. Noted cholesterol improvement and ALT normalized. Euphoria, happier and singing
     frequently, while on the tea. Vivid dreams. Motivated to be physically active. Well
     tolerated. Mental clarity. Tired and lethargic when not on the tea for 1 week.
25            F, 42, 7.5 g LL tea/day (1.5 min steeping time) for 12 weeks. Tea incorporated
     into exercise and diet regime. Less muscle stiffness following gymnasium exercise. Lost
      12 kg during a 6-week period. Put on an additional 2 kg when stopped drinking the tea
     during the subsequent 3-week period.
              M, 71, 4.5 g LL tea/day (initially consuming tea and tea leaves, subsequent
30   brewing practice with tea leaf discarded after 2 min brewing), for a 22-week period.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   69
     Localized aggressive prostate cancer. PSA 22 (10 January 2012), PSA 20 (23 January
     2012).     Combination therapy - anti-androgen tablets (bicalutamide/Cosudex) and a
     luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist (subcutaneous implant - Zoladex)
     began in March 2012. Radiotherapy and tea commenced in June 2012. Tea is very well
 5   tolerated when taken in conjunction with radiation treatment. Despite the side effects of
     hormone treatment, reports that the tea has been quite uplifting to his moods. Convinced
     that the combination of standard prostate cancer treatment has worked, is ecstatic with the
     results and his view of the future is now extremely positive.
              M, 66, 3 g SP tea/day (1.5 min steeping time) for 7 months.           8 years ago,
10   diagnosed (biopsy) with prostate cancer. No surgery, but radiation (chips) treatment. Did
     have TURP operation previously. Vegetarian. PSA 7.9 (January 2012), PSA 5.9 (April
     2012). On tea from 18 March 2012. Erectile improvement. Used to take zinc. Scrotum
     sac has tightened while on the tea. Helping with arthritis in hands. Feels better. Well
     tolerated at 2 cups/day. At early stage of administration, feeling of high blood pressure at
15   3 cups a day. However, now taking occasional 3 cups in I day.
              M, 74, 3 g SP/LL tea/day for 6 months. 8 years ago diagnosed with low-grade
     prostate cancer (Gleeson score = 6) but chose no surgery. PSA holding steady at 11.
              F, 72, 3 g SP/LL tea/day for 6 months. Arthritis Australia member. Had spinal
     surgery but pain from spondylosis continues. After 8 weeks on the tea, able to stop
20   medications - dextropropoxyphene (Di-gesic), codeine and oxycodone hydrochloride
     (Endone). Continues with paracetamol.
              M, 37, 4.5 g LL tea/day in large water bottle. Drinks the sediment. Wrist pain
     relief in 4 days. Has calmness and feeling of wellbeing while on the tea. Doesn't have
     the fullness/puffiness effect typical with poor/high carbohydrate diet. Has reduced urge
25   for coffee.
              M, -72, 4.5 g LL tea/day over a 17-week period.        2002, treated for localized
     prostate cancer   - radical prostatectomy. PSA 0.02. By 7 May 2012, PSA is 2.93. MRI
     and biopsy identifies small amount of prostate cancer in single lymph node as sampled by
     fine needle aspiration.     PSA reduced to 0.02 (19 June 2012) with 8-days use of tea.

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   70
     Continued with the tea and PSA taken September 2012, also 0.02. Pleasant tasting. Well
     tolerated.
             M, 69, 6 g LL tea/day (30 s steeping time) over 10-week period.          Improved
     erectile function and libido. Helps with stress.
 5           M, 64, 3 g P tea/day over a 4-week period.           Benign prostatic hyperplasia,
     improved urination flow with the tea.
             F, 42, 4.5 g LL tea/ day (consuming the tea and the tea leaves) over a 36-week
     period.     Stage IV breast cancer, metastasized to bone and liver.         Too weak for
     chemotherapy. With only days left to live, went on the tea. 6 months later, doctor advises
10   that she will definitely celebrate her mid-year birthday. Now planning for Christmas
     period.    Major quality of life improvement and extension on the tea. Estimates. that
     extended life by 7 months. No cancer markers as a guide but reported no change in scans
     and in one instance, an improvement in scans.
             F, 45, 3.8 g LL tea/day over a 5-week period. Metastatic breast cancer. Depressed
15   immune system and nausea associated with radiation and chemotherapy. Chemotherapy
     topoisomerase      A2   inhibitors   (Taxotere m,   Epirubicin)   and   cyclophosphamide.
     Introduction of tea halfway through the chemotherapy cycle, results in no nausea and
     feeling better. Reports that 2 days were difficult with the chemo/tea combination, but still
     able to get out of bed and do activities.
20            F, 60, 3 g LL tea/day (2 min brewing time) over a 26-week period. Menopausal.
     Calmness, reduction in anxiety while taking the tea. Reduced back pain, even though
     working as acleaner 20 hours/week, in addition to full-time sales work. Energy level
     good.
              M, 52, 3 g P tea/day (2 min brewing time) over 2-week period. Assisted in the
25   treatment of chest infection.
              F, 73, 3 g LL tea/day (2 min brewing time) over a 4-week period. Reported a
     small "high" when drinking the tea and reduced anxiety levels. Well tolerated.
              M, 58, 4.5 g LL tea/day (1 min brewing time) over a 2-week period. Arthritis in
     knee and hands. Reported first signs of pain relief in 2 days.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                     71
              F, 36, 3 g LL tea/day (2 min brewing time). Suffers from anxiety disorder - post
      traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Not treatable by psychologists, considered a chemical
      imbalance.     Reported. to dietitian that she experienced improved moods and sleeping
     better with regular tea consumption.
 5            F, 52, 3 g LL tea/day.       Suffers from anxiety disorder - post traumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD).      Not treatable by psychologists, considered a chemical imbalance.
      Reported to dietitian that she experienced reduction in pain and muscle tension with the
     tea consumption. Sleeping better. Muscle pain and insomnia are symptoms of PTSD.
              F, 39, 6 g LL tea/day (1 min steeping time) over a 3-week period. Dieting,
10   exercising and working long hours in own business. Reported high energy levels when
      consuming the tea, despite a very busy lifestyle and work routine.
              F, 45, 4 g LL tea/day (tea in the cup, no straining) over a 10-week period. Papua
     New Guinean. During the first month noticed some pressure in the head at 3 cups/day.
      Second month found that could easily accommodate 2 - 4 cups/day. Reduced menstrual
15    pain and less breast discomfort during this period.        Tends to drink 4 cups/day on
      weekends and is well tolerated. Weight loss from 64 kg to 61 kg. Previously size 12 in
      trousers, now 10. Skin condition improved. If 3 cups on an empty stomach, feeling of
     jubilation reported.
              M, 55, 3 g LL tea/day (1 min steeping time) over a 14-week period. Healthy diet
20    and fit for heavy work. Works a total of 65 hours per week as groundsman for 2
      employers. Weight loss and strong appetite suppression while taking the tea. Wardrobe
      change required as a result of weight loss. Finds the tea has given him considerable
      energy and work endurance. Had to stop tea consumption at times, because he was losing
      his desire to eat.
25            M, 60, 3.5 g SP tea/day (brewed and consumed from a thermos flask). History of
      motorcycle racing accidents have now resulted in leg pain and arthritis. After 4 days
      consumption, reported that the very sharp pain in the leg is alleviated with a reduction in
      the dull ache from arthritis.

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  72
             M, 73,,4 grams LL tea/day.      Prostate cancer treated by intermittent hormone
     treatment successfully maintained at PSA at low levels (0.02). Tea is consumed as a
     complementary therapy.
             M, 56, 4.5 g SP tea/day (1 min steeping time). Pain in knee joints and hands
 5   reduced. Able to re-commence bike rides.
             M, 81, 4.5 g LL tea/day (2 min steeping time) over 4-week period.        Prostate
     cancer metastasized to bone. While taking tea over I month, PSA dropped from 7.5 to 7.1
     (22 May 2012). No bone pain while taking the tea. Taking ZometaTM (zoledronic acid)
     for complications associated with bone metastases.
10           M, 24, 6 g LL tea/day (1.5 min steeping time) over a 3-week period. Vivid dreams.
     Euphoria like endorphins. Noticed immune system felt worse when stopped taking the
     tea.
             M, 73, 3 g LL tea/day.       Prostate cancer treated with intermittent LucrinTM
     treatment since 2010 resulting in PSA levels as low as 0.01. Without hormone treatment,
15   PSA gradually increased to 0.72 (May 2012). Tea consumed during the period until next
     PSA test result (6 September 2012) of 1.00. Urologist is pleased with result, scheduling
     next patient visit February 2013.
             M, 74, 4 g SP tea/day. Prostate cancer. PSA 1.3 (17 March 2011) rising to PSA
     4.1 (23 February 2012). Consuming tea for the 6-week period prior to the 18 May 2012
20   PSA test (PSA 4.2).        Urologist pleased with the steady PSA result.        Continues
     consumption of the tea until next PSA test result (PSA 5.6, 10 September 2012).
             M, 61, 2 g LL tea/day (1 min steeping time) over a 25-week period. Prostate
     cancer, commenced hormone treatment and tea in March 2012 (PSA 13). July 2012 PSA
     reading is 1.6. Currently undergoing radiation treatment. Has occasional hip ache/pain,
25   but tea having no impact.
             M, 66, 3 g LL tea/day over a 5 month period. Undiagnosed prostate condition
     with rising PSA. PSA 8 reduced to PSA 5.4 in 4 months while consuming the tea, as well
     as dandelion tea and saw palmetto.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    73
             F, 58, 3 g LL tea/day. Lung cancer primary with secondary cancer (spots) in spine.
     Never a smoker. Euphoric and mentally alert/positive with tea consumption. However,
     no pain relief. Oncologist is pleased with her overall health and appearance, considering
     her disease state.
 5           M, 75, 4.5 g LL tea/day over a 4-week period. Prostate cancer with hormone
     treatment (goserelin acetate). Well tolerated, but reports that there is no euphoria effect.
             M, 70, 2.5 g/day over a period of 20 weeks. Excellent health. No medications or
     supplements taken. Recent blood tests were all fine and the doctor was very pleased with
     a lowering of PSA levels, which was not typical for 70 year old men.
10           M, 83, 3 g LL tea/day for a period of 16 weeks. Prostate cancer with hormone
     implant recently removed due to steady PSA levels. Reports that it is a "pick me up' in
     his morning schedule.
             M, 51, 4.5 g SP tea/day. Muscle strain and associated pain requires the use of a
     girdle for support. Reported that the tea provide back pain relief within 1 week of
15   commencing consumption.
             M, 52, 4 g LL tea/day, over a period of 10 weeks. Brain cancer. Doctor reports
     that the latest brain scans are not showing an improvement since the patient began
     drinking the tea, however suggested that in this case, no changes in the scans is a positive
     outcome.
20           M, 54, 4 g LL tea/day, irregular consumption over 10 weeks. Arthritis in hands.
     Reports that pain relief is evident after 2 - 3 days consumption allowing him to participate
     in pastimes such as golf.
             F, 56, 4.5 g LL tea/day (1.5 min brewing time) over a period of 12 weeks. Carpal
     tunnel syndrome. Treated with Femaram, but suffering from side effects such as feet
25   pain. Reported pain relief within 1 week of commencement of consumption of the tea.
             F, 81, 4 g LL tea/day (2.5 min brewing time) over a 13-week period. Bladder
     cancer. Recent scan shows a slight lesion on the bladder wall has not changed since
     previous scan.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   74
              M, 69, 5 g LL tea/day (1.5         min brewing time) over a 21-week period.
     Undiagnosed prostate condition 7.5 years ago (PSA 6) with PSA testing gradually rising
     with spiking over the years. PSA 8.2 (October 2011), PSA 8.7 (April 2011), PSA 9.2
     (June 2012). Taking Jason Winters Tea prior to the LL tea. Did report major family
 5   based stresses during the 2-month period of the latest PSA test period. Prostate biopsy
     (12 samples) in July 2012 show cancer in 2 samples and prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia
     (PIN) in I sample. Reported improvement in erectile function in the early stages of tea
     consumption.
              F, 68, 4.5 g LL tea/day over an 8-week period. Breast cancer treated with three
10   chemotherapy drugs.       Two years suffering from arthritis in knees, some days having
     difficulty in walking. Reports no pain in knees following 3 days of tea consumption. The
     recent addition of the tea, has assisted in maintaining good energy levels while on
     chemotherapy. Reports euphoria and feeling great while consuming the tea. Two cysts in
     liver, but recent CT scan fails to detect them.        Weight loss of 11.5 kg while on the
15   chemotherapy/tea regime.      Continuing with chemotherapy, but now considered cancer
     free.
              M, 43, 4 g SP/LL tea (1.5 min brewing time) for a 13-week period. Previously
     required glasses to read.      After 4 weeks of tea consumption eyesight improvement
     removed the need for reading glasses. Reports improved erectile function noted with tea
20   consumption. Has repetitive strain injury in forearm. Found that with tea consumption,
     the pain was less sharp and little residual dull pain.
              F, 44, 3 g LL tea/day in cranberry juice (1.5 min brewing time) over a 20-week
     period. Breast cancer. Treatment included minor surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy,
     bone density medication and hormone treatment inducing menopause. Despite reported
25   side effects of weight gain post treatment, reports loss of 4 kg while taking the tea.
              F, 33, 3 g LL tea/day (1 min steeping time) over 6 weeks. Inflammation of the iris
     (iritis). Tea consumption has "changed her life". Prior to tea use, regular bouts of eye
     pain treated with corticosteroid eye drops for a period of 3 weeks following the incident.
     With tea use, the recent eye incident was mitigated with doubling the number of cups to
30   4/day over a 3 day period, resulting in less pain and discomfort in 2 days. Weight loss of
     4 kg also evident while on the tea and with regular exercise.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    75
              M, 28, 3 g LL tea/day (1 min steeping time) over 6 weeks. Exercise coupled with
     tea consumption resulted in 4 kg weight loss in the first 4 weeks of tea consumption.
              M, 56 3 g LL tea/day (1 min steeping time) over 8 weeks. Prostate cancer treated
     by hormone therapy. In the month of tea consumption, lost 3 kg and reduced alcohol
 5   consumption. Despite work colleagues getting colds, found that only had a sore throat for
     2 days, without further symptoms.
              F, 88, 2 g tea/day (1.5 min steeping time) over a 6-week period. Reports better
     sleep, improved digestion and memory performance while on the tea.
              M, 64, 5 g SP tea/day for a period of 14 weeks.        Prostate cancer with small
10   metastasis on spine (T4). Recent treatment is hormone therapy. PSA steady at 9 and no
     indication of further metastases.      Feels well on the tea despite the ill effects -of the
     testosterone-lowering treatment. Well tolerated.
              F, 67, 2.5 g SP tea/day for a period of 11 weeks. Knee reconstruction causing pain
     in recent years.     Some pain relief noted with the tea in the form of dulling of pain.
15   Considers it a morning stimulant.
              M, 74, 3 g LL tea/day over a 30-week period. Prostate cancer, radical prostectomy,
     however in recent years PSA rising.         Prior to tea consumption, PSA 4.1.     With tea
     consumption, PSA steady at 4.2.
               F, 54, 4.5 g LL tea/day over a 26-week period.       Breast cancer (single breast
20   mastectomy) with some changed lymph nodes.           Successful treatment by chemotherapy
      (e.g. Taxotere T) and radiation.     Prior to tea consumption found that some days very
      difficult to perform normal activity due to pain and very low energy. Tea consumption
      mitigated these issues. Noted that with the tea, recovered faster from chemotherapy with
     no extra days in hospital. No cancer markers to monitor, but noted that recent blood tests
25   were normal, albeit low vitamin D status and the doctor was pleased with her ability to
      recover and be visually healthy following such intensive treatment.
               F, 44, 3 g LL tea/day over a 20-week period.        Suffering from anxiety (e.g.
      vomiting upon awakening in the morning, fatigue).         Tea consumption after 2 weeks
      mitigated the situation. Husband reports a dramatic turnaround in her condition since
30    taking the tea.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  76
              M, 58, 3 g tea/day over an 18-week period. Persistent tiredness. Reported that tea
     consumption gave a feeling of euphoria and a feeling of energy. Able to perform more
     hours of work in own business, attributed to the tea, in particular more alertness and
    -energy in the evening. Some improvement in hand pain reported.
 5            M, 88, 6 g SP/LL tea/day over a 21-week period. Prostate cancer first diagnosed
     in 2000. Has noticed the tea is helping with joint pain. Expect PSA test in 2013.
              F, 88, 5.5 g SP/LL tea/day over an 18-week period.             Age-related macular
     degeneration.     Has a very positive attitude and good energy level while on the tea.
     Positive about it assisting in the macular degeneration condition, but not able to get
10   medical verification at this stage.
              F, 46, 3.5 g LL tea/day over a 16-week period. Arthritis causing hip pain, unable
     to work. Reported pain relief with 1 week of tea consumption. Able to return to work.
     Feels more positive now that tea is a regular addition to diet.
              F, 53, 4.5g LL tea/day over a 9-day period. Arthritis pain in fingers. Previously
15   took COX inhibitor Meloxicam (MobicTM) but had to cease due to upset stomach. Each
     night took Panadeine ForteTM (paracetamol and codeine phosphate) to ease the pain and
     allow sleep. Within 4 days reported initial pain relief, with total pain relief at day 6. Well
     tolerated and pleasant tasting. Some improvement with facial acne. Noted that tea
     facilitated the passage of feces.
20            M, 64, 4.5g LL tea/day over a 9-week period. Low grade prostate cancer. Vietnam
     veteran. Unable to have prostate cancer surgery due to disembowelment during active
     service in Vietnam. May 2012 PSA result 5.3. Began tea and DuodartTM on 5 September
     2012. PSA reduction to 2.6 (4 May 2012) considered by urologist to be very good result.
     M 64 is pleased with his energy levels and is very positive that his future health needs
25   will addressed with the tea.
              Caffeine content
              The EVC black tea (4 g oak/1.5 g serve) was analysed for caffeine content using
     HPLC against a USP caffeine. standard and compared to the caffeine content of the
     untreated black tea.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                     77
              The caffeine content of the untreated black tea was 24.02 mg/g. By contrast, the
     caffeine content of the EVC black tea was 18.90 mg/g.             This represents a 21.3 %
     reduction in the caffeine content of EVC black tea, which is attributed to a combination of
     the application of EVC extract to the tea and slow drying of the mixture of black tea and
 5   EVC extract.
              Example 8. Medium dose EVC/ethoxylated ground coffee production process
     results in natural de-caffeination.
              This example describes the preparation of ethoxylated oak rich coffee, wherein
     components of the coffee are also ethoxylated. The coffee provides the equivalent of 4 g
10   oak/6 g serve and is given the name EVC coffee (4 g oak/6 g serve).
              Coffee is pleasant tasting, well tolerated and produces successful health outcomes,
     namely with respect to cancer, metabolic syndrome, blood pressure, anxiety, weight loss,
     arthritis, euphoria, improved platelet count (B cell lymphoma), spleen pain (B cell
     lymphoma), pH neutralisation, anti-depressant, menstrual pain and breast swelling,
15   vaginal lubrication, mental acuity, euphoria, relaxing and a cold preventative.
              Materialsand methods
              EVC coffee (4 g oak/6 g serve)
              Aqueous ethanol solution (4 kg, 50 % w/w) with pH 3.5 was added to French oak
     chips (1 kg) and allowed to stand for a period of 22 days. The mixture was then filtered
20   and the subsequent filtrate evaporated to 25 % of its original volume using vacuum
     distillation. That is, the French oak extract (4 kg) was evaporated by vacuum distillation
     to give 1 kg of extract (EVC extract) resulting in a biomass (oak) to solvent ratio of 1:1
     (EVC 1:1 extract).
              The EVC 1:1 extract was added to ground Arabica coffee at a weight ratio of 4
25   parts EVC 1:1 extract to 3 parts ground coffee. The EVC extract/ground coffee mixture
     was then dried on a stainless steel shallow tank (bed) heated to a surface temperature of
     about 55 'C for a period of 2 to 3 days until completely dry. Ambient temperature air was
     forced over the mixture to assist with the drying process.                 This ethoxylated
     oak/ethoxylated coffee is described as 1.33 g oak/I g ground coffee.

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  78
             The final product is a 50:50 mixture of the abovementioned oak treated coffee
     (1.33 g oak/1 g ground coffee) with untreated ground coffee - thus resulting in a 0.67 g
     oak per gram ground coffee. In practical terms, a serve of this coffee (6 g) would be
     prepared from 4 g dry oak, hence given the name EVC coffee (4 g oak per serve).
 5           Results
             Human testimonials
             The results from human volunteers who incorporated EVC coffee into their diet
     are detailed below.
             M, 58, 7 g ground coffee/day over a 3.5-week period.        Prostate cancer, with
10   radiation treatment during first half of 2012. PSA readings are 1.7 (October 2011), 1.6
     (February 2012), 1.7 (June 2012). During the next 4 months, no treatment but consumed
     the coffee for 3.5 weeks. PSA reduction to 1.04 (October 2012) considered an excellent
     (albeit surprising) result by urologist.
             M, 53, 22 g ground coffee/day over a 14-week period. High blood pressure, obese.
15   Blood pressure 163/93 mmHg, reduced to 137/82 mmHg and body weight 99.8 kg
     reduced to 94.8 kg with 14 days coffee consumption and healthy diet. Also reported
     reduced anxiety during this period. Muscle relaxant for damaged back (accident, 2 years
     prior). Pain relief for shattered first knuckle joint. Euphoria. Vivid dreams in first 2
     weeks. Fist pain returned when consumption stops for 2 days. No sarcoidosis symptoms
20   (eye flare up) during this period.
             F, 66, 12 g ground coffee/day over a 10-week period.        Pancreatic cancer, 16
     months ago diagnosed with 3 months to live. Taste buds have changed as a result of
     chemotherapy, for pancreatic cancer, finds EVC coffee acceptable but the LL tea
     unpalatable.    Improvement in the cancer scan noted when on the coffee, against a
25   background of poor scans prior to coffee consumption. Feels very well with a healthy
     complexion, while on the coffee. Leading a very active and fulfilling rural lifestyle.
             F, 52, 16 g ground coffee/day for a 6-week period. B cell lymphoma         -   cancer
     marker CD-20 antigen positive. Enlarged spleen. Low platelet count. No medication.
     No pain with spleen while on the coffee. Monthly platelet count falling from 109 (27

  WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                 79
    January 2012) to 60 (June 2012). One month on EVC coffee produced an increase in
    platelet count and no pain in the spleen. pH papers from acid to neutral.
             F, 40, 17 g ground coffee/day over a 7-week period. History of depression and
    poor sleep patterns.      Reduced anxiety with tea.     Reports effective use as an anti
 5  depressant. Reduced menstrual pain and less breast swelling. Better vaginal lubrication.
     When consumption ceased for 36 hours, withdrawal symptoms -were evident, similar to
     sudden cessation of antidepressants. Found to be useful with occasional constipation
    issues.
             M, 47, 20 g ground coffee/day for a 7-week period. Back pain managed through
10  stretching and exercise.     More alert/mental acuity when on the coffee.      Experiences
    euphoria similar to that achieved with heavy exercise. No colds during this period despite
    widespread colds in workplace. Very relaxed when consumed, but not noting any energy
    boost.
             Example 9. Ethoxylation process conditions with caffeinated foods results in
15  caffeine reduction and improved anti-inflammatory capability.
            This example describes caffeine reduction results and commensurate anti
    inflammatory -results achieved with EVC black tea (4 g oak/1.5 g serve) and EVC coffee
    (4 g oak/6 g serve) are also described.
            Materials and methods
20           E VC coffee (4 g oak/6 g serve)
             Preparation of EVC coffee (4 g oak/6 g serve) is described in Example 8.
            E VC black tea (4 g oak/1.5 g serve)
             Preparation of EVC black tea (4 g oak/1.5 g serve) is described in Example 7.
            Results
25           The EVC coffee was analysed for caffeine content using HPLC against a USP
    caffeine standard and compared to the caffeine content of untreated coffee.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    80
              The caffeine content of untreated ground Arabica coffee was 12.60 mg/g. By
     contrast, the caffeine content of EVC coffee was 10.31 mg/g (prepared from equal parts
     of oaked coffee (1.33 g oak/i g coffee) with a caffeine content of 8.02 mg/g and an
     untreated coffee with a caffeine content of 12.6 mg/g).         This represents an 18.2 %
 5   reduction in the caffeine content of EVC coffee, which is attributed to a combination of
     the application of EVC extract to the coffee and slow drying of the mixture of coffee and
     EVC extract.
              By comparison, the addition of EVC 1:1 extract (1.33 g) extract to ground Arabica
     coffee (1 g) lowers the caffeine level of the resultant EVC coffee (1.33 g oak/i g coffee)
10   by 4.58 mg/g, equivalent to a 36.3 % reduction.
              An EVC black tea (4 g oak/1.5 g serve) sample has a caffeine content of 24.02
     mg/g. The caffeine level of the EVC black tea was lowered by 5.12 mg/g (21.3 %)
     compared to the caffeine level of untreated black tea.
              It is postulated that the enhanced anti-inflammatory performance of EVC coffee
15   compared to EVC. black tea is linked to the formation of caffeine-vescalagin adducts and
     the resultant lowering of caffeine levels in the EVC coffee when compared to EVC black
     tea.    Particularly when observing the results of consumption over up to 2 weeks,
     compared to over 5 days (figure 8 and figure 9), there is long-term improvement in the
      gait of AIA rats whose diet was supplemented with coffee compared the gait of AIA rats
20    whose diet was supplemented with black tea.
              Example 10. Medium dose EVC/non-ethoxylated instant coffee is pleasant,
     well-tolerated and provides successful results in osteoarthritis pain relief, medication
      replacement and a feeling of wellness.       Also outlined is the production process for
     -EVC/ethoxylated instant coffee.
25            This example describes the successful addition of high. dose ethoxylated C
      glycosidic ellagitannins to a non-ethoxylated Arabica/Robusta coffee concentrate, dried
      into instant coffee crystals and is given the name EVC instant coffee crystals (3 g oak/2.5
      g serve).
              This instant coffee mixture is an example of (a) a food (e.g. beverage), (b) a food
30    additive (e.g. ingredient for flavouring milk, chocolate manufacture, confectionary, dairy

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   81
     products, bakery products, and (c) a dietary supplement (e.g. chewable tablets, tablet
     formulas, capsules).
             Materialsand methods
             The preparation of EVC instant coffee crystals was as follows. EVC 1:1 was
 5   prepared as described in Example 4.- EVC 1:1 (16.5 kg) was added to Arabica/Robusta
     coffee concentrate (55 Brix, 24 kg) and sufficient water was added to achieve a resultant
     mixture of 32 Brix, and the mixture was then stirred in a paddle mixer for a maximum of
      10 minutes, then applied to the drying belt of a refractance window dryer. The EVC
     instant coffee crystals (3 g oak/2.5 g serve) was in the form, of light brown crystals
10   (similar to the appearance of shellac flakes) that are not hydroscopic, hence can be packed
     in containers containing 50 g, 100 g, 150 g or larger, as is the case with other
     commercially available instant coffee. Alternatively the flakes can be ground to a finer
     size to produce a finer flake composition or a fine powder.
             The taste profile of this coffee was surprisingly pleasant, with a hint of oak
15   character. Astringency is slightly more that the untreated coffee, however not overly
     obvious to a consumer not skilled in the art of taste profiles associated with high
     polyphenol rich foods.
              Where the final product is a flavoured instant coffee (e.g. caramel, hazelnut,
     vanilla), the addition of the flavouring can be added at any stage prior to drying, but
20   ideally mixed as the last ingredient prior to drying.
              Where the final product required is a high dose ethoxylated C-glycosidic
     ellagitannins on a substrate of ethoxylated coffee and a commensurately lower caffeine
     content, the method of manufacture is changed to allow ethoxylation of the coffee
     polyphenols and coupling of the natural coffee caffeine with the C-glycosidic
25   ellagitannins to form caffeine-C-glycosidic ellagitannins adducts, whereby there is
     modification of the coffee polyphenols to achieve a more lipophilic character.
              The preparation of EVC instant ethoxylated decaffeinated coffee crystals was as
      follows. Winegrape-derived ethanol (66 kg, pH 4.3, 95 % v/v ethanol) was added to
     French oak chips (16.5 kg) and allowed to stand for a period of 20 days. The mixture was
30   then filtered and the subsequent filtrate added to a sealable 200 L polyethylene container.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    82
     Arabica/Robusta coffee concentrate (55 Brix, 24 kg) was then added to the container and
     the mixture stirred with a spiral mixer for 30 minutes and allowed to stand for 2 weeks at
     ambient conditions. The liquid mixture was then dried to a powder using refractance
     window drying equipment to provide a fully ethoxylated instant coffee.
 5           In the preparation of the EVC instant coffee crystals and the EVC instant
     ethoxylated decaffeinated coffee crystals, sweeteners (stevia, sugar, glucose, corn syrup,
     honey, maple syrup), milk products (skim milk, whole milk, colostrum), vitamins,
     minerals, supplements (e.g. calcium, fish oil, chia seed oil, linseed oil) and other nutrients
     can be added and mixed into the mixture prior to the drying step.
10           Results
             Human testimonials
              The results from a human volunteer who incorporated EVC instant coffee crystals
     (3 g oak/2.5 g serve) into their diet are detailed below.
             M, 47, 10 g instant coffee/day over a 2-week period. Osteoarthritis. Anterior
15   crucial ligament reconstruction, 21 year ago. Recent episodes include swelling, pain and
     inability to bear weight on knee.              As advised by physician, on painkillers
     (paracetamol/codeine), 3 sets during the day, I set at night.          After 7 days coffee
     consumption reported less pain and swelling, resulting in- ceasing daytime medication.
     On second week replaced all medication. Well tolerated and feeling of wellness while on
20   the coffee.
              EVC coffee fudge (I g oak/12 g serve) was prepared as follows. Brown sugar
     (550g), butter (140g, unsalted) and evaporated milk (375 mL) were placed into a glass
     bowl and microwaved on high for 3 minutes.              The mixture was then stirred and
     microwaved for an additional 3 minutes. Chocolate (200g, 40 % cocao) was broken into
25   pieces and added to the mixture, followed by EVC instant coffee crystals (40 g, 3g'
      oak/2.5 g serve) and EVC grape powder (120 g, as described in Example 12). The
      mixture was stirred and poured into lined, shallow trays and then refrigerated at 4 *Cfor
      2h. To achieve serves (squares) derived from 1 g ethoxylated French oak, the cooled
      EVC coffee fudge was cut using a knife into 12 g squares. The EVC coffee fudge was
30    stored at 4 *C.

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  83
              The taste of EVC coffee fudge (1 g oak/12 g serve) is very acceptable, with oak
     character masked by the coffee flavour.
              Example 11. Medium dose EVC fortified wines are pleasant tasting, well
     tolerated and produce reduced muscle stiffness associated with exercise.
 5           The preparation of EVC red wine (2g oak/150mLwine) is as follows. EVC 1:1
     was prepared as described in Example 4. EVC 1:1 (10 mL) was added to commercially
     produced oak-matured red wines derived from cabernet sauvignon, shiraz and cabernet
     sauvignon/shirz blends (750 mL).
             Tasting of these very high dose EVC-fortified wines was surprising in that they
10   were very palatable, albeit having obvious oak bouquet and taste. The addition did
     enhance the astringency (dryness) of the wine, which could be described as taking a dry
     red wine and converting it to a "super' dry red wine. This increased dryness was again
     acceptable in the taste testing (n=5). The best results were achieved with the more fruit
     driven styles that include cabernet sauvignon as the main grape variety.
15           Noted by male (53) after 3 days of consumption (450 mL per day) that muscular
     stiffness/soreness was not apparent allowing for exercise on consecutive days, which was
     not possible prior to this EVC-fortified wine intervention.
             The preparation of EVC red wine (3 g oak/150 mL wine) is as follows. EVC 1:1
     was prepared as described in Example 4. EVC 1:1 (15 mL) was added to commercially
20   produced Australian oak-matured wine derived from cabernet sauvignon, shiraz and
     cabernet sauvignon/shiraz blends (750 mL).        The amount of ethoxylated oak extract
     added to 150 mL is derived from 3 g French oak.
             This increased dryness was again acceptable but 3 g added oak/ 150 mL red wine
     appears to be the approximate limit in the taste testing (n=5). Again the best results were
25   achieved with the more fruit-driven styles that include cabernet sauvignon as the main
     grape variety.
              The preparation of EVC white wine (2 g oak/150 mL wine) is as follows. EVC
     1:1 was prepared as described in Example 4.            EVC 1:1 (10 mL) was added to
     commercially produced Australian oak-matured chardonnay and sauvignon blanc wine
30   (750 mL). The amount of ethoxylated oak extract added to 150 mL is derived from 2 g

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   84
     French oak. The wine is distinctively dry, but acceptable as a "super" dry white wine
     style.
             However, the addition of more EVC 1:1 extract resulting in an amount of
     ethoxylated oak extract derived from 3g French oak added to 150 mL white wine, is not
 5   acceptable as a table wine.
             Example 12. Versatile EVC/grape powder for beverage, food additive and
     dietary supplement applications.
             This example describes the preparation of ethoxylated oak (ethoxylated
     vescalagin-rich/castalagin-rich) extract (EVC) formulated into a substrate of non
10   ethoxylated white grape concentrate. This mixture is given the name EVC white grape
     powder.
             The EVC white grape powder is an example of (a) a food (e.g. concentrate added
     to water to make a beverage), (b) a food additive (e.g. ingredient for soft drink
     manufacture, wine, chocolate manufacture, confectionery, spreads, jams, dairy products,
15   bread, biscuits, bakery products, honey, butter, cheese, margarine, meal replacement
     formulas) and (c) a dietary supplement (e.g. chewable tablets, tablet formulas, capsules).
             The EVC white grape powder was prepared as follows. EVC 1:1 was prepared as
     described in Example 4. EVC 1:1 (10 kg) was added to 68 Brix white grape concentrate
     (20 kg) and stirred in a paddle mixer for 10 minutes and then applied to the drying belt of
20   a refractance window dryer. The resultant dried product (16.95 kg) is hydroscopic, hence
     was packed in climate controlled rooms into sealed foil bags. Stored in a cooled room
     until required for use.
             EVC toffee was prepared as follows. Maple syrup (500 mL, 100 % Pure Canadian
     Certified Organic, Queens Fine Foods, Queensland, Australia) was heated in a saucepan,
25   with regular stirring, until it reached 130 *C on a candy thermometer (20 minutes). The
     maple syrup was removed from the heat and allowed to cool to 110 'C.            EVC grape
     powder (75 g) was added with stirring. Moulds were prepared by spraying them with
     vegetable oil, to facilitate candy release. The maple syrup mixture was heated to 120 *C,
     removed from the heat and poured into the prepared moulds.
30           EVC chocolate fudge (1 g oak/12 g serve) was prepared as follows. Brown sugar

   WO 2014/071438                                                        PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                85
     (550g), butter (140g, unsalted) and evaporated milk (375 mL) were placed into a glass
     bowl and microwaved on high for 3 minutes.           The mixture was then stirred and
     microwaved for an additional 3 minutes. Chocolate (250 g, 50 % cocao) was broken into
     pieces and added to the mixture, followed by EVC grape powder (200 g). The mixture
 5   was stirred then microwaved for 3 minutes. Following further stirring, the mixture was
     poured into lined, shallow trays and 'refrigerated at 4 *C for 2 h. To achieve serves
     (squares) derived from I g ethoxylated French oak, the cooled EVC chocolate fudge was
     cut using a knife into 12 g squares. The EVC chocolate fudge was stored at 4 *C.
              The taste of EVC chocolate fudge is very acceptable, with only a hint of oak
10   character.
              EVC peppermint chocolate fudge (1.5 g oak/13 g serve) was prepared as follows.
     Brown sugar (550g), butter (140g, unsalted) and evaporated milk (375 mL).were placed
     into a glass bowl and microwaved on high for 3 minutes. The mixture was then stirred
     and microwaved for an additional 3 minutes. Chocolate (250 g, 40 % cocao) was broken
15   into pieces and added to the mixture followed by EVC grape powder (300 g) and
     peppermint essence (25 g). The mixture was stirred, then microwaved for 3 minutes.
     Following further stirring, the mixture was poured into lined, shallow trays and
     refrigerated at 4 'C for 2 h. To achieve serves (squares) derived from 1.5 g ethoxylated
     French oak, the EVC peppermint chocolate fudge was cut using a knife into 13 g squares.
20   The EVC peppermint chocolate fudge was store at 4 'C.
              The taste of EVC peppermint chocolate fudge (1.5 g oak/13 g serve) is very
     acceptable, with only a hint of oak character. The peppermint flavour is quite lingering
     after the confectionery is consumed.
              EVC orange flavoured pectin gel (1 g oak/8.6 g serve) was prepared as follows.
25   Citrus pectin (27 g, Grindsted TM Pectin RS 400) was dissolved in water (200 g) and
     allowed to stand for 10 h at 4 *C. The pectin solution was placed in a saucepan and cane
     sugar (700 g) was added. The mixture was stirred, then allowed to boil until reduced to
     approximately 800 g. EVC grape powder (200 g) was then added with stirring. The
     mixture was heated to 90 *C and then citric acid (5 g) and orange essence (30 g) were
30   added. The mixture was heated for a further 2 minutes, then poured into silicon moulds.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   86
              EVC Fish oil emulsion is prepared as follows.      EVC grape powder (3 g) was
     mixed in with a serve (12 mL) of commercially available citrus flavoured fish oil
     emulsion (Nature's Own Omega Delight, Sanofi-Aventis, Virginia, Queensland, Australia).
              The EVC grape powder dissolved very well in the emulsion. The flavour of the
 5   fish oil emulsion was sufficient to conceal the oak character of the additive.
              Example 13. Versatile EVC/purple carrot powder for beverage, food additive
     and dietary supplement applications.
              This example describes      the preparation of ethoxylated        oak (ethoxylated
     vescalagin-rich/castalagin-rich)   extract (EVC) formulated into a substrate of non
10   ethoxylated purple carrot concentrate. This mixture is given the name EVC purple carrot
     powder.
              The EVC purple carrot powder is an example of (a) a food (e.g. concentrate added
     to water to make a beverage), (b) a food additive (e.g. ingredient for cola/root
     beer/sarsaparilla flavoured soft drink manufacture, instant tea manufacture, chocolate
15   manufacture, noodles, pasta,confectionery, spreads, jams, butter, cheese, margarine, dairy
     products, meat patties, sauces, marinades, honey, bread, biscuits bakery products, meal
     replacement formulas) and (c) a dietary supplement (e.g. chewable tablets, tablet formulas,
     capsules).
              The EVC purple carrot powder was prepared as follows. EVC 1:1 was prepared
20   as described in Example 4.       EVC 1:1 (10 kg) was added to 60 Brix purple carrot
     concentrate (20 kg) and stirred in a paddle mixer for 10 minutes and then applied to the
     drying belt of a refractance window dryer. The resultant dried product (14.5 kg) is
     hydroscopic, hence was packed in climate controlled rooms into sealed foil bags. Stored
     in a cooled room until required for use.
25            Example 14. EVC incorporated into actively growing fruit.
              EVC 1:1 was prepared as described in Example 4. EVC 1:1 (10 mL) was injected
     3 weeks prior to harvest and then a further amount of EVC 1:1 (10 mL) was injected 2
     weeks prior to harvest.     A 30 mL flavour injector was used to inject the fruit. Such
     injectors are cylindrical shape and comprise a piston. The needle length (6 cm) was fully
30   inserted into an actively growing pineapple. EVC 1:1 (about 2 mL) was injected at this

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   87
     point with a further amount (3 mL) released when slowly pulling out the needle. This
     was repeated at another site, resulting in a total injection of 10 mL EVC 1:1 with the
     single application. Toothpicks were inserted into the 2 injection points to signal the point
     of entry and maintain the integrity of the fruit.
 5            Upon harvest the pineapple was cut up and revealed some browning of the extract
     where it had been applied, however there was evidence of diffusion through the plant.
              Example 15. EVC incorporated into post-harvest fruit.
              EVC 1:1 was prepared as described in Example 4. EVC 1:1 (4 mL) was injected
     into a lemon and an orange. A flavour injector (30 mL) was used to inject the fruit as
10   described in Example 14, resulting in two injection points, each of 2 mL of EVC 1:1. The
     first injection point was into the central column of the fruit. The second injection point
     was into the juicy vesicles area. Toothpicks were inserted into the two injection points to
     signal the point of entry and maintain the integrity of the fruit.
              After one week the orange and lemon were cut open. There was browning of the
15   of the central column area as the brown coloured EVC 1:1 extract was absorbed by the
     fibrous core. Browning also occurred in the juicy vesicle area, but was less prominent.
              While this application may well be suitable for citrus that are juiced, the
     presentation of this fortified citrus used for eating purposes may not be ideal.         An
     alternative option is to choose a darker flesh citrus substrate such as blood orange.
20            Example 16. EVC incorporated into beer formulations to produce beer with
     improved taste profiles, well tolerated and with successful health outcomes namely,
     medication replacement, gout and arthritis.
              This example describes the addition of ethoxylated vescalagin-rich/castalagin-rich)
     extract (EVC) to commercially available beers and as an ingredient in beer manufacture.
25   This mixture is given the name EVC beer.
              EVC white grape powder preparation is described in Example 12. EVC purple
     carrot powder preparation is described in Example 13. EVC PC preparation is described
     in Example 23.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   88
             The addition of EVC white grape powder (10 g) to 50 mL pale ale (sample from I
     L, Matilda Bay Fat Yak Pale Ale, Matilda Bay Brewing Company) produced considerable
     foaming. After settling (about 10 minutes) the remaining 950 mL of the beer was added
     with stirring to produce the final product. EVC pale ale beer maintained its pleasant, full
 5   bodied taste as it presented in the untreated pale ale beer format. Evidence of the addition
     of the EVC 1:1 extract only slightly detectible with more hop character, slightly more
     flavoursome and with some additional astringency at the tip of the tongue. Overall the
     addition of high levels of ethoxylated C-glycosidic ellagitannins was surprisingly
     acceptable in beer that has no oak addition in its commercial manufacture.
10           The addition 'ofEVC white grape powder (10 g) to 50 mL lager beer (sample from
     1 L, GrolschTM, Carlton United Brewery) produced considerable foaming. After settling
     (about 5 minutes) the remaining 950 mL of the beer was added with stirring to produce
     the final product. The EVC fortified lager presented more rounded taste profiles, when
     compared with the untreated lager.
15           EVC purple carrot powder (2.2 g) was added to non-alcoholic beer (40 mL,
     Hopman Premium Pale, JMB Beverages). After 2 minutes, the remaining 270 mL of the
     beer was added with stirring. The EVC purple carrot-rich beer presented, as expected, a
     purple-red colour to the beer, due to the high anthocyanin content. Surprisingly there was
     no carrot taste in the final beer product. The taste profile was improved with the addition
20   of EVC purple carrot by producing a more rounded mouth feel and taste. Despite the
     addition of the astringent oak additive, the final product was less astringent when
     compared with the untreated beer.
             M, 50, 12 g of EVC PC/day, over an 8-week period.              Gout, aggravated by
     excessive alcohol consumption, namely beer. Produces and consumes a home brewed
25   lager beer (Beermakers Lager, 1.7 kg kit makes 20 L beer, manufactured by West Brew
     T/As Brewcraft), in accordance with manufacturers instructions. When fermented and
     cooled, adds EVC PC (240 g) to the batch. Has inconsistent success with AllopurinolTM
     over a 1.5 year period. Stops the medication. Three weeks later switches consumption
     from untreated Beermakers Lager (1 L per day) to EVC PC-fortified Beermakers Lager (1
30   L per day). Reports no incidence of gout during this 8-week period. Also notes less pain
     in arthritis in hands during this period. Reports that the fortified beer, while distinctively

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   89
     purple in colour is pleasant tasting with a slight flavour improvement over the untreated
     (previous) beer batches.
             Example 17.      EVC incorporated into onion and garlic powders and their
     applications as a food additive and dietary supplement.
 5           This example describes the preparation of ethoxylated oak (ethoxylated
     vescalagin-rich/castalagin-rich) extract (EVC) formulated into a substrate of non
     ethoxylated fresh onion that is subsequently gently dried to become a dehydrated form of
     onion with its fresh flavour preserved. This mixture is given the name EVC onion powder.
             The EVC onion powder can be utilized as (a) a food additive to meat, fish, salads,
10   cheese manufacture, hamburgers, sauces, marinades and (b) a dietary supplement (e.g.
     chewable tablets, tablet formulas, capsules).
             The EVC onion powder was prepared as follows. EVC 1:1 was prepared as
     described in Example 4. The dry, outer skin of white fresh onions (30 kg) was removed
     and discarded. The remaining onion was put through a commercial mincer and then
15   finely pureed in a stainless steel tilting food blender (25 L jug capacity). EVC 1:1 (10
     Kg), 10 L water and the onion puree were added to a stainless steel open top vessel and a
     paddle mixer inserted and the mixture stirred for 15 minutes before applying to the drying
     belt of a refractance window dryer. The resultant dried powder was then packed into foil
     bags.
20           For production of an EVC garlic powder, the same production processes were
     followed as described with the EVC onion powder, however the ratio of 2 parts garlic to 1
     part EVC 1:1 was used.
             Example 18. Versatile EVC/non-ethoxylated cocoa powder for beverage, food
     additive and dietary supplement applications.           Also outlined is the production
25   process for EVC/ethoxylated cocoa.
             This example describes the preparation of ethoxylated oak (ethoxylated
     vescalagin-rich/castalagin-rich) extract (EVC) formulated into a substrate of ethoxylated
     cocoa. This mixture is given the name EVC cocoa. The mixture is an example of (a) a
     food (e.g. drinking cocoa), (b) a food additive (e.g. cocoa ingredient for chocolate

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   90
     manufacture, confectionery, spreads, dairy products, bakery products, meal replacement
     formulas) and (c) a dietary supplement (e.g. chewable tablets, tablet formulas, capsules).
              European oak wood was converted into chips and extracted for 20 days at room
     temperature in winegrape ethanol (pH 4.3) containing 95 % v/v alcohol in the ratio of 4
 5   parts ethanol to one part oak chips. The resultant alcoholic extract was filtered to remove
     the solid material and de-alcoholised in a vacuum distiller. The resultant extract is an
     ethoxylated vescalagin/castalagin rich extract, named EVC.
              Winegrape-derived ethanol (200 kg, pH 4.3, 95 % v/v ethanol) was added to
     French oak chips (50 kg) and allowed to stand for a period of 20 days. The mixture was
10   then filtered and-the subsequent filtrate added to a salable 1000 L polyethylene container.
              Cocoa (50 kg, Barry Callebaut Belgium NV) was gradually added and the mixture
     stirred in a spiral mixer for 1 hour. Hot water (200 L, 80 *C) was added to the resultant
     slurry and stirred continued for a further 30 minutes. The resultant cocoa/EVC liquid
     mixture was stored at ambient conditions for 2 weeks. The cocoa/EVC liquid mixture
15   was dried to a powder using refractance window drying equipment to form EVC cocoa.
              EVC cocoa is produced under conditions whereby the catechin-rich cocoa is
     ethoxylated to produce polyphenols with more lip6philic character.           An alternative
     production process is to produce an EVC non-ethoxylated cocoa, thus retaining the
     integrity of the polyphenol-rich (namely epicatechin) cocoa, thus accommodating health
20   applications such-as prevention of urinary tract infections.
              The preparation of EVC non-ethoxylated cocoa was as follows. EVC 1:1 was
     prepared as described in Example 4. EVC 1:1 (100 L) was added to cocoa (50 kg; Barry
     Callebaut Belgium NV) and sufficient water needed to achieve a resultant mixture of 31
     Brix, and the mixture stirred in a paddle mixer for a maximum of 10 minutes, then
25   applied to the drying belt of a refractance window dryer.
              In the preparation of EVC cocoa and EVC non-ethoxylated cocoa, sweeteners
     such as stevia or maple syrup can be added and mixed into the slurry prior to the drying
     step.
              EVC cocoa caramel fudge was prepared as follows. Brown sugar (350 g), butter
30   (25 g, unsalted), milk (125 mL) were placed into a saucepan, and brought gently to the

  WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    91
    boil, with occasional stirring. After approximately 20 minutes, EVC cocoa (12 g) and
    caramel flavouring (3 g, Caramel flavouring V417/023441, International Flavours and
    Fragrances Pty. Ltd.), were added, with stirring. The mixture was then poured into a
    shallow silicon tray and left to set.
 5           Example 19. Fractionation of EVC and its application as a flavouring and
    dietary supplement.
             This example describes the preparation of (a) a spearmint flavouring fortified with
    the lipophilic fraction of ethoxylated oak extract (EVC) and (b) an ethoxylated ginger
    flavouring fortified with EVC.
10           EVC spearmint
             The EVC spearmint flavouring can be utilized as (a) a flavouring for tea,
    chocolate, confectionery, chewing gum and dairy products (e.g. spearmint flavoured milk)
    and (b) a dietary supplement (e.g. chewable tablets, tablet formulas, capsules).
             EVC spearmint flavouring preparation was as follows. EVC 1:1 was prepared as
15  described in Example 4. EVC 1:1 (2.7 kg) was vacuum distilled to 270 mL and added to
    spearmint oil (20 mL, steamed distilled oil of Mentha spicata). The mixture was
    subjected to 3 minutes of high speed mixing in a domestic blender. The mixture was then
    stored for 12 h at 4 *C resulting in the formation of crystals on top of the brown aqueous
    layer. The crystals were filtered and weighed (22.4 g). These crystals were dissolved in
20  winegrape-derived ethanol (100 mL, pH 4.3, 95 % v/v ethanol), resulting in a spearmint
    oil fortified with the lipophilic fraction of the EVC 1:1.
             EVC ginger
             The preparation of ethoxylated oak (ethoxylated vescalagin-rich/castalagin-rich)
    extract (EVC) formulated into a substrate of ethoxylated ginger that is subsequently
25  gently dried to become a dehydrated form of ginger with its fresh flavour preserved is
    described. This mixture is given the name EVC ginger powder.
             The EVC ginger powder can be utilized as (a) a food additive to meat, fish, salads,
    cheese manufacture, hamburgers, sauces, marinades and (b) a dietary supplement (e.g.
    chewable tablets, tablet formulas, capsules).

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  92
              The EVC ginger powder was prepared as follows. EVC 1:1 was prepared as
     described in Example 4. Ginger (300 kg) was put into a commercial mincer to produce a
     wet ginger pulp. The ginger pulp was then placed into a winegrape hydraulic stainless
     steel press, to remove the ginger juice (approximately 150 kg) from the pulp. The juice
 5   was filtered then added to a vat containing EVC 1:1 (50 kg). The mixture was allowed to
     stand for 2 weeks, then vacuum distilled to achieve a 32 Brix product. Dried with a
     refractance window dryer to produce EVC ginger powder.
              Example 20. Hydrolysed EVC gel production and applications.
              This example describes the preparation of a water based personal lubricant that is
10   fortified with acid-hydrolysed ethoxylated C-glycosidic ellagitannins, given the name
     Hydrolysed EVC gel.
              The Hydrolysed EVC gel be utilized as (a) a skin active NF-iB inhibitor
     formulation, (b) a skin active Nitric Oxide therapy formulation, (c) a personal lubricant,
     (d) a condom lubricant, (e) a sexual performance enhancer/stimulant, (f) an anti-aging
15   formulation, (g) an anti-wrinkle/skin firming formulation, (h) an anti-irritant formulation,
     (i) an anti-acne formulation, (j) a soothing/relaxant formulation, (1) an anti-cancer
     formulation, (in) an anti-inflammatory formulation, (n) an anti-hypertensive formulation,
     (o) an antiperspirant formulation or (p) a Rosacea formulation.
              The Hydrolysed EVC gel was prepared as follows. EVC 1:1 was prepared as
20   described in Example 4. Citric acid was added and stirred into EVC 1:1 (2 L) to achieve
     a homogeneous mixture with a pH of 1.8.          The acidic mixture was then placed in a
     vacuum distiller and distilled to 100 mL over a period of 3 hours to produce Hydrolysed
     EVC. Hydrolysed EVC (I mL) was mixed into a commercially available water-based gel
     (10 mL, Swiss NavyTM water-based lubricant, manufactured by MD Science Labs, USA)
25   to produce Hydrolysed EVC gel.
              Noted by male (53) after application of 0.5mL Hydrolysed EVC gel to forearm
     skin, a minor tightening effect, but no sensation of heat. After 5 minutes, experienced
     slight light-headedness, but this condition subsided after 20 minutes.

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  93
             Example 21.       Suboptimal metabolic syndrome results when oak/catechin
     compete with ethoxylated oak production and implications when coffee and
     chocolate combinations are tested.
             This example describes the preparation of a non-alcoholic ethoxylated French
 5   oak/red wine extract with catechin-ellagitannin hybrids derived from red wine catechins
     and oak ellagitannins in the acidic wine extraction solvent (EVC CAT wine extract). Use
     of the EVC CAT wine extract in a diet fed to rats having high-carbohydrate, high-fat
     (HCHF) diet-induced metabolic syndrome is also described, as are variations whereby
     Arabica coffee or dark chocolate are included in the diet.
10           Materials and methods
             EVC CAT wine extract
             The EVC CAT wine extract was prepared as follows. A stainless steel vessel was
     heated to 65 *C. Chopped olive leaf (6.4 kg) was placed into an expandable cotton bag
     and then placed in the stainless steel vessel. French oak chips (1.5 kg) were placed into
15   another expandable cotton bag and then placed in the stainless steel vessel. Red wine (37
     L, 22 % ethanol, pH 4.3) was poured over the cotton bags in the vessel and the
     temperature within the vessel was maintained at 65 *C for 3 days. The resultant liquid
     was removed from the vessel and filtered to give EVC CAT wine extract.
             Rats, diets and test methods
20           Rats, diets and test methods are described in Example 1.
             Coffee
             Colombian-grown green Arabica coffee beans were roasted under standard
     industry conditions and ground so as to be suitable for a coffee plunger.
             The coffee was incorporated into the HCHF diet as follows. A coffee extract was
25   prepared by mixing ground Colombian Arabica coffee (50 g) into boiling water (100 mL).
     After 5 minutes, the mixture was filtered to obtain coffee extract (50 mL). The coffee
     extract was mixed in food by replacing 50 mL water/kg food in the HCHF diet. For each
     food preparation, fresh coffee extract was prepared. The rats were given free access to

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   94
      food and water and were individually housed in temperature-controlled conditions, with
      12 h light/12 h dark.
               Dark chocolate
               Dark chocolate was incorporated into the HCHF diet as follows. Callebaut dark
 5    chocolate (70 % cocoa solids, Barry Callebaut Asia Pacific (Singapore) Pte.Ltd.),
      comprising cocoa mass (also called cocoa liquor), cocoa butter and sugar was added to
      the rat chow at a dose of 50 g/kg food.
               Results
               Data for various health outcomes are presented in Table 8.
10             Table 8.
                                    HCHF+EVC            HCHF+EVC           HCHF+EVC
    Health Outcomes                 CAT wine             x react coffee    extract+dark
                                    N=9                 N=9               N=9
    SBP* (8 weeks)
    (in mmHg)                       143.24.3           145.03.0          143.33.7
    SBP (12 week)
    (mmHg)                          132.72.7           130.12.2          142.72.6
    (mmHg)*
    SBP (16 weeks)
    (mmllg)              ,124.23.8                     123.72.7          135.72.1
    Fasting blood glucose (16       3.40.2             4.30.1            4.70.2
    weeks) (mM)
    Abdominal circumference         22.30.4            22.90.5           21.30.3
    (cm)
    Abdominal fat pads              573                  05412
    (mg/mm of tibial length)        55730              60045            44126
    Whole body fat mass (g)         15815              16216             1299
    Lean mass (g)                   3047               30211            2774
    Initial body weight (g)         3305               3305              3305
    Final body weight (g)           50713                                4749
    Liver weight (mg/mm of
             tiia lngh)2957
    tibial length)                                      34118             2786
                *SBP - systolic blood pressure

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  95
              From the data in this table, it can be seen that supplementing the diet in a rat
     model of metabolic syndrome with EVC CAT wine extract results in beneficial health
     outcomes.     Those beneficial outcomes are further enhanced by the addition of dark
     chocolate to the diet, notably in the abdominal circumference, abdomininal fat pads, total
 5   weight and fatty liver parameters. As can be seen from this example, the best health
     outcomes, with the exception of blood pressure lowering, are achieved with the
     combination of EVC CAT wine extract and epicatechin-rich dark chocolate.
             The antioxidant-rich combination of EVC CAT wine extract and dark chocolate
     produced favourable systolic blood pressure results when compared with the untreated
10   rats (Example 1), however was significantly inferior to EVC CAT wine extract alone.
             Example I details the results of untreated and EVC-treated rats with high
     carbohydrate, high fat diet-induced metabolic syndrome. While the antioxidant-rich EVC
     CAT wine extract does exhibit favourable health outcomes, most notably systolic blood
     pressure lowering, when a comparision is made against EVC, EVC CAT wine extract is
15   significantly inferior.
             While there are positive references to favourable outcomes with hybrids formed
     between C-glycosidic ellagitannins and catechins in the literature (Quideau S, 2009), the
     results from Example 1 and and the present example provide evidence that superior health
     outcomes are achieved with respect to metabolic syndrome when the oak ellagitannins are
20   fully ethoxylated (e.g. EVC) without the presence of catechins (e.g. red wine as used in
     the present example).
             The combination of wine-based EVC CAT wine extract and coffee consistently
     delivered inferior metabolic syndrome outcomes, when compared with EVC CAT wine
     extract alone.    This is a surprising outcome and is particularly disturbing when one
25   considers that human diets with both red wine and coffee consumption are common in the
     western world.
             Once again, when EVC replaces the EVC CAT wine extract, as in the EVC coffee
     fed rats in Example 3, the inflammation driven aspects of metabolic syndrome, such as
     weight gain, fat pad accumulation and fatty liver strongly favour the more anti
30   inflammatory EVC extract.       However, the antioxidant-rich EVC CAT wine extract is

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    96
     comparable to the antioxidant rich EVC with respect to blood- pressure reduction
     associated with a high carbohydrate, high fat diet.
             Example 22.       Low dose non-ethoxylated American oak/ethoxylated green
     tea/ethoxylated olive leaf extract formulation as a palatable beverage option and
 5   favourable metabolic syndrome outcomes superior in respect to hypertension and
     comparable to phospholipase A2 inhibitor and ibuprofen in respect to other
     metabolic syndrome parameters. Human testimonial on fertility.
             This example describes the results of a rat diet supplemented with EVC CAT
     tarragon tea (winter tarragon, non-ethoxylated American oak+catechin-ethoxylated
10   hybrids) and compares the results to those achieved with ibuprofen or phospholipase A2
     (PLA2) inhibitor.
             Materialsand methods
             The diet was fed to rats having high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet-induced metabolic
     syndrome. Specifically, the rats were fed a diet containing condensed milk, beef tallow,
15   fructose and powdered rat food for 16 weeks. The EVC CAT tarragon tea was added to
     the diet for the last 8 weeks only, whilst the high carbohydrate high fat diet was continued.
             The EVC CAT tarragon tea was prepared as follows. Ethanolic olive leaf extract
     (3.4 kg, pH 4.25) produced from 3.4 kg fresh olive leaf was added to green tea (3.4 kg)
     and left for up to 4 days to dry at ambient temperature.
20           Red winegrape seed/red winegrape skin extract (0.6 kg, pH 2.77), produced from
     0.6 kg of frozen red winegrape pomace was added to green tea (0.6 kg) and left for up to
     4 days to dry at ambient temperature.
             Non-ethoxylated ethanolic American oak extract (1.8 kg, pH 5.1) produced from
     0.6 kg of dry American oak chips and cane sugar ethanol (pH 6.0) was added to green tea
25   (1.8 kg) and left for up to 4 days to dry at ambient temperature.
             The resultant three antioxidant enriched green teas were blended with green tea
     (25 kg) to produce a green tea blend.
             The green tea blend was mixed with dried winter tarragon (5 kg), Tagetes Lucinda,
     to produce the final product - EVC CAT tarragon tea.

   WO 2014/071438                                                             PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    97
             The following indicators for metabolic syndrome were monitored:
                         (a) blood pressure (by a tail cuff procedure)
                         (b) heart stiffness (by a balloon in the isolated heart)
                         (c) abdominal fat pads (measured by waist circumference and weight
 5               of fat pads)
                         (d) glucose intolerance (by measuring blood glucose concentrations
                         (e) liver dysfunction (by analysis of liver enzymes in blood and liver
                 histology)
             Results
10           Rats fed the high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet showed increased blood pressure,
     increased heart stiffness (and increased collagen deposition), doubling of abdominal fat
     pads and increased waist circumference, glucose intolerance (a pre-diabetic state),
     increased plasma liver enzymes and deposition of fatty droplets in the liver.
             Rats on the high-carbohydrate, high-fat diet but also treated with the EVC CAT
15   tarragon tea for 8 weeks showed, at week 16, normal blood pressure, normal heart
     stiffness and collagen deposition, normal abdominal fat pads and waist circumference,
     normal glucose tolerance, normal plasma liver enzymes with no fat droplets in the liver.
             The data for systolic blood pressure of rats fed a high carbohydrate, high fat diet
     supplemented with EVC CAT tarragon tea, PLA2 or ibuprofen is shown in Figure 10.
20           The data for fat pad measurements of rats fed a high carbohydrate, high fat diet
     supplemented with EVC CAT tarragon tea, PLA2 or ibuprofen is shown in Figure 11.
             The data for glucose tolerance of rats fed a high carbohydrate, high fat diet
     supplemented with EVC CAT tarragon tea, PLA2 or ibuprofen is shown in Figure 12.
             Human testimonials
25           The results from a human volunteer who incorporated EVC CAT Tarragon tea into
     her diet are detailed below.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  98
             F, 28, 5 g tea/day over a 25-week period. Considered infertile.        Severe back
     damage. Tea well tolerated and uplifting. Claims that the antioxidant rich tea assisted in
     her ability to conceive, whereas her history before the tea supported the view that she was
     unable to bear children.
 5           Example 23. Low dose EVC/ethoxylated purple carrot formulation delivers
     favourable health outcomes, namely arthritis and migraine prevention.
             This example describes the preparation of an oak enriched purple carrot powder
     and testing of the resultant EVC purple carrot (EVC PC) powder in an AIA rat model with
     particular focus on movement disability, knee size swelling and periarticular soft tissue
10   swelling.
             The preparation of EVC PC comprised the following steps:
                      1.     Frozen purple carrot (100 kg) was chopped up using a mincer and
             placed into 10 expandable cotton bags in a stainless steel vat.
                     2.      Red wine (22 % alcohol, 100 L) was pumped over the bagged
15           purple carrot. Notably, red wine contains catechins, including epicatechin. These'
             catechins compete with ethanol as nucleophiles in the ethoxylation process.
                     3.      The vat was heated to 65 *C for 7 days, after which time the bags
             were removed and pressed to collect the liquid (about 115 L).
                     4.      The liquid was reduced by vacuum distillation to 65 L and purple
20           carrot concentrate (20 L, 60 Brix) and red grape concentrate (5 L, 68 % Brix) were
             added to the reduced liquid.
                     5.      French oak extract (10 L), derived from 2.5 kilo of dry oak
             extracted in 10 L of 22 % alcohol red wine for 2 weeks, was added to the mixture
             from step 4.
25                   6.      The resultant mixture from step 5 was dried using refractance
             window drying to produce EVC PC powder (about 33 kg).
             The EVC PC was added to the rat diet at a dose of 0.5 %.
             Results

   WO 2014/071438                                                        PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  99
             As can be seen from Figure 13, rats whose diet was supplemented with EVC PC
     showed less restriction of leg movement post-arthritis induction when compared to the
     controls (who did not received a diet supplemented with EVC PC).
             Figure 14 illustrates that supplementing the diet with EVC PC resulted in
 5   reduction of knee joint width.
             Human testimonials
             The results from a human volunteer incorporating EVC PC into their diet are
     detailed below.
             F, 52, 9 g EVC PC/day for a 4-week period. Migraines, high stress lifestyle and
10   work pressures. Noted that after 9 days EVC PC consumption, less tension in upper
     shoulder and neck. No migraines experienced during this period of consumption, unlike
     previous history.
             Example 24.        Low dose EVC/ethoxylated        purple carrot formulation
     prevented the increase in RANKL:OPG ratio that characterizes osteoporosis.
15           This example outlines the background and objective for the evaluation of a
     preventative role for C-glycosidic ellagitannin-rich EVC PC in osteoporosis.           In
     particular, this example describes the methods and results for measurement of responses
     to C-glycosidic ellagitannin-rich EVC PC on osteoblasts in vitro.
             Diseases with underlying inflammation are found to be associated with reduced
20   mineral bone density and increased fracture risk; for example, obesity, type 2 diabetes,
     metabolic syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis, while glucocorticoids (for example, in
     Cushing's syndrome) are causative for osteoporosis.
             Since adrenal stimulationoccurs in inflammation, glucocorticoid effects may form
     part of the inflammation-associated response.
25           Homeostasis of bone mineral density is achieved by pro-mineralization actions of
     osteoblasts and by the resorptive actions of osteoclasts.
             A crucial pathway in bone homeostasis is via the RANKL/OPG/receptor activator
     of NF-icB (RANK) signaling pathway involving RANK, found on the cell membrane of

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   100
     osteoclasts and pre-osteoclasts.       RANK is activated by RANKL, synthesized by
     osteoblasts. RANKL-RANK interactions promote fusion of pre-osteoclasts, attachment
     and activation of osteoclasts, and their survival.
              This potent osteoclastic mechanism is tempered by another osteoblastic product,
 5   OPG which behaves as a "decoy" receptor by binding to RANKL, thereby limiting its
     action.    It is generally accepted that the OPG:RANKL ratio is the predominant
     determinant of mature osteoclast function, as well as a potent activator of osteoclast
     precursors (of macrophage origin) which then fuse and differentiate into mature
     osteoclasts.
10            Pro-resorptive hormones, cytokines and growth factors act via their cognate
     receptors on osteoblasts to activate the RANKL/OPG/RANK pathway.                The critical
     importance of this pathway in bone homeostasis has been demonstrated in mice gene
     knockouts for RANKL, OPG or RANK.
              A cell model of rat osteoblast (UMR- 106) that has the expected activity of mature
15   cells, including the capacity for mineralization and the expression of RANKL and OPG
     was utilized.
              A series of experiments (n=3) tested whether the C-glycosidic ellagitannin-rich
     EVC PC can prevent the increase in RANKL:OPG ratio that characterises osteoporosis.
              Rat osteoblast cell line UMR- 106 was stimulated with cyclic AMP for 24 hours, a
20   treatment that increases the expression of RANKL and lowers that of OPG, thus
     mimicking an osteoporotic increase in RANKL:OPG.
              Results
              When treated concurrently with C-glycosidic ellagitannin-rich EVC PC (0.1mM
     anthocyanins), the rise in RANKL:OPG was completely prevented, thus providing
25   evidence for the use of C-glycosidic ellagitannins as an anti-osteoporotic agent, as shown
     in Figure 15.
              Example 25.      Medium dose EVC/non-ethoxylated purple carrot wine is
     pleasant tasting, well tolerated and produces favourable health outcomes, namely
     with respect to chronic fatigue syndrome and arthritis.

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  101
             The preparation of EVC PC wine was as follows. Olive leaf extract (9.4 kg,
     derived from 9.4 kg fresh olive leaf), EVC 1:1 (20 kg) and purple carrot concentrate (255
     kg, 58 Brix) were added to a stainless steel vat and stirred with a paddle mixer for 10
     minutes and then applied to the drying belt of a refractance window dryer. The resultant
 5   dried product (164 kg) was hydroscopic, hence was packed in climate controlled rooms
     into sealed foil bags. Stored in a cooled room until required for wine production.
             The above-mentioned dried powder was added at the rate of 40 g per 750 mL of
     oaked matured shiraz red wine (13 % ethanol).
             Results
10           Human testimonials
             The results from human volunteers who incorporated EVC PC wine into their diet
     are detailed below.
             F, 39, 300 mL/day of EVC PC wine for first week, intermittent use over a 40-week
     period. Doctor diagnosed chronic fatigue syndrome, unable to return to work for 2 years.
15   Tried various complementary therapy options without success. Noticed profound energy
     improvement in 4 days. Able to return to work 2 months later. Consumption of wine
     after the first 4 weeks quite irregular. Reported that when wine consumption ceased for
     about 1 week, there were elements of the chronic fatigue returning.
             F, 29, 200 mL/day of EVC PC wine for 3-week period. Arthritis (shoulder) from
20   sports injury. Note pain reduction with 5 days consumption and full pain relief with. I
     weeks use.
             Example 26.       Medium dose EVC/ethoxylated           turmeric formulation is
     pleasant tasting, well tolerated and produces favourable health outcomes, namely
     with respect to cancer, libido improvement, cold/flu avoidance, eczema, alopecia,
25   hair re-growth, immune enhancement, reduction of "flu like symptoms" with
     chemotherapy and rapid recovery from penicillin resistant infections.
             This example describes the preparation of a medium dose ethoxylated oak (1.5
     g/30 mL serve), medium dose ethoxylated turmeric (2.5 g turmeric/30 mL serve) beverage

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  102
     concentrate, given the name EVC Turmeric (2.5g turmeric, 1.5g oak /30 mL serve),
     abbreviated as EVCT1.
              Materialsand methods
              Aqueous ethanol solution (4 kg, 50 %w/w) with pH 3.0 was added to French oak
 5   chips (1-kg) and allowed to stand for a period of 21 days. The mixture was then filtered
     and the subsequent filtrate evaporated to 33 % of its original volumne using vacuum
     distillation. That is, the French oak extract (4 kg) was evaporated by vacuum distillation
     to give 1.33 kg of de-alcoholised extract (designated EVC 0.75:1 extract) whereby 1 kg of
     this de-alcoholised EVC 0.75:1 extract is derived from 0.75 kg oak.
10            Fresh turmeric was placed into a commercial mincer and the resultant wet pulp
     was pressed in a winegrape press, separating fresh juice from pulp. The turmeric pulp
     was then placed into cotton bags, tied at the top and submerged into an equal weight of
     grape alcohol (50 % ethanol, pH 3.0). After a period of at least 7 days, and preferably 9
     days for extraction to be complete, the bags were then pressed in a winegrape press and
15   the filtrate, being an alcoholic turmeric pulp extract, was vacuum distilled to 33 % of its
     original volume and retained. Thus, 1 kg of ethanolic turmeric extract is derived from I
     kg turmeric pulp. By reducing the volume to 33 % of original volume, 1 kg of this de
     alcoholised extract (designated Turmeric 3:1 extract) is derived from 3 kg turmeric pulp.
              The Turmeric 3:1 extract was used to prepare EVCTI in the proportions indicated
20   in Table 9.
              Table 9.
    Component                                               Proportion by weight (%)
    Red grape concentrate (68 Brix)                                      52
    White grape concentrate (68 Brix)                                   27.3
    Blueberry concentrate (65 Brix)                                      10
    De-alcoholised EVC 0.75:1 extract                                   6.7
    De-alcoholised Turmeric 3:1 extract                                  3.3
    Ascorbic acid                                                        0.6
    Sodium metabisulphate                                               0.05
    Potassium sorbate                                                   0.05

  WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  103
            The components in Table 9 were added in the order they are presented in the Table
    into a circular stainless steel vat and mixed using a low speed circulation stirrer. Stirring
    was continued for a further 15 minutes after the last component was added.
 5          Results
            The results from human volunteers who incorporated EVC Turmeric (2.5g
    turmeric, 1.5g oak /30 mL serve), abbreviated as EVCTI into their diet are detailed below
            M, 69, 100 mL per day. 7.5 years ago, diagnosed (biopsy) with low-grade prostate
    cancer. No surgery, watchful waiting protocol. PSA 9.2 (late July 2012), PSA 7.6 (27
10  August 2012). On EVCT1 for this period. Libido improvement at the end of this period.
    Urologist pleased with the MRI and cancer score. Consideration of brachytherapy in the
    future, but continue with watchful waiting (active surveillance).
            M, 56, 50 mL per day. Prostate cancer metastasized to bone (hip, 2 other hot
    spots), under intermittent hormone treatment. No colds since taking EVCTI over 18
15  months. 2 tumour hot spots now reduced to 1.
            Dog, 15 mL per day. Atopic dermatitis (eczema) and extreme hair shedding. Hair
    re-growth evident.
            M, 72, ear skin cancer      - put the sediment of EVCT1 on ear. 2 weeks later,
    surgeon couldn't find cancer site.
20          F, 45, 40 mL per day. Breast cancer. No nausea during 6-month chemotherapy, no
    infections. Immune system stayed well. Only 2 chemotherapy treatments resulted in "flu
    like symptoms".
             F, 41. Facial cancers, about to have surgery. Used EVCT1 sediment for treatment.
    2 weeks and dramatic reduction in visual appearance.
25           F, 14, 25 mL per day. Swimmer (Representative of State of N.S.W., Australia)
    with history of pneumonia. No colds this season (year).

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                 104
             F, 47, 20 mL per day. Triple negative breast cancer. Found that the side effects of
     chemotherapy were negated with a daily dose of EVCTI. No colds while taking it over
     18 months. Able to bounce back from penicillin-resistant infections.
             Example 27. Low dose EVC/non-ethoxylated purple carrot and elderberry
 5   combination with favourable arthritis results.
             This example describes the preparation of an oak enriched purple carrot (EVC PC)
     and elderberry juice concentrate and testing of the resultant EVC PC elderberry
     concentrate in an AIA rat model with particular focus on movement disability and knee
     size swelling.
10           The preparation of EVC PC powder used in this example is described in Example
     25. This preparation differs from the EVC PC described in Example 23, as it is produced
     from purple carrot concentrate and incorporates a higher concentration of EVC.
             The refractance window dried EVC PC was added to elderbefry juice concentrate
     (Brix 62) and mixed until homogeneous. The resultant EVC PC elderberry mixture was
15   added to the dry rat food (chow) at a dose of 0.5 % and elderberry concentrate (Brix 62 %)
     was added at a dose of 5 %.
             Results
             As can be seen from Figure 16, rats whose diet was supplemented with EVC PC
     and elderberry -showed less restriction of leg movement post-arthritis induction when
20   compared to the controls (who did not received a diet supplemented with EVC purple
     carrot and elderberry).
             Figure 17 illustrates that supplementing the diet with EVC PC and elderberry
     resulted in reduction of knee joint width.
             Example 28. Low dose EVC/non-ethoxylated purple carrot and camu camu
25   combination with favourable arthritis results.
             This example describes the preparation of an oak enriched purple carrot (EVC PC)
     and camu camu juice concentrate and testing of the resultant EVC PC camu camu
     concentrate in an AIA rat model with particular focus on movement disability and knee
     size swelling. The EVC PC camu camu supplement incorporates an ellagitannin-rich fruit

  WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   105
     juice (camu camu), which naturally contains ellagitannins, the fruit juice being fortified
     with ethoxylated oak/ethoxylated oak catechin hybrids that exist in EVC PC.
             The preparation of EVC PC powder used in this example is described in Example
     25. This preparation differs from the EVC PC described in Example 23, as it is produced
 5   from purple carrot concentrate and incorporates a higher concentration of EVC.
             The refractance window dried EVC PC powder and camu camu juice concentrate
     (Brix 58) were separately added to dry rat food diet at 0.5% and 5 % respectively. The
     addition of the EVC PC powder to the food was by mixing with water (1 part EVC PC, 10
     parts water) then adding to the food. The camu camu concentrate was added undiluted to
10   the dry rat food.
             Results
             As can be seen from Figure 18, rats whose diet was supplemented with EVC PC
     camu camu showed less restriction of leg movement post-arthritis induction when
     compared to the controls (who did not received a diet supplemented with EVC PC camu
15   camu).
             Figure 19 illustrates that the supplementing the diet with EVC PC camu camu
     resulted in reduction of knee joint width.
             Example     29.    Low dose EVC/non-ethoxylated           purple carrot/fucoidan
     formulation with excellent arthritis results.
20           Materials and methods
             The preparation of EVC PC fucoidan was as follows. Olive leaf extract (4.85 kg,
     derived from 14.5 kg fresh olive leaf), EVC 1:1 (0.776 kg), fucoidan (3.88 kg, Synergy TM
     Marinova Pty Ltd, Tasmania Australia) and purple carrot concentrate (255 kg, 58 Brix)
     were added to a stainless steel vat and stirred with a paddle mixer for 10 minutes and then
25   water (146 kg) was added and mixed for 5 minutes before being applied to the drying belt
     of a refractance window dryer. The resultant dried product (146 kg) was hydroscopic,
     hence was packed in climate-controlled room into sealed foil bags.
             Results

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  106
             As can be seen from Figure 20A, rats whose diet was supplemented with EVC PC
     fucoidan showed less restriction of leg movement post-arthritis induction when compared
     to the controls (who did not received a diet supplemented with EVC PC fucoidan).
             Figure 20B illustrates that the supplementing the diet with EVC PC fucoidan
 5   resulted in reduction of knee joint width.
             Example 30. High dose ethoxylated C-glycosidic ellagitannins with purple
     carrot powder and fucoidan.
             This example describes the methods used for the measurement of the effects of
     EVC PC fucoidan in a mouse model of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-mediated acute lung
10   inflammation.
             Materialsand methods
             The preparation of EVC PC fucoidan was as described in Example 29.
             Male C57/BLK6 mice (n=8/group; 9-12 week) were fed on normal chow or
     normal chow supplemented with 5% EVC PC fucoidan containing interventions for 4
15   days. This was. followed by intranasal instillation of 1.25 mg/kg E. coli (0128:B12) LPS
     in sterile physiological saline. Anaesthesia with 5% isoflurane in 100% oxygen was
     effected three hours post LPS instillation. Bronchial lavage fluid was withdrawn by
     standard procedures; after centrifugation, differential and total cell counts were measured
     and TNFa, IL-1p, IL-6 and mouse serum albumin levels in the supernatant were
20   measured.
             Results
             The data demonstrates that the most significant markers for acute inflammation
     (total nucleated cell concentration and neutrophil concentration) are significantly
     suppressed in EVC PC fucoidan treated mice (p < 0.05; one- way ANOVA + Bonferroni's
25   post-test analysis). These are the most common indicators used for determining effect on
     acute inflammation and preliminary data indicates a positive effect by EVC PC fucoidan
     treatment for both parameters, as seen in Figures 21 and 22.

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  107
             A comparison of the BAL fluid from a mouse fed EVC PC fucoidan and the BAL
     fluid from an LPS positive control mouse is shown in Figure 23. Feed EVC PC 4 days
     prior to LPS treatment.
             As can be seen from Figure 24, the alveolar macrophage levels were not
 5   significantly (p < 0.05) affected by. EVC PC fucoidan treatment in the 3-hour assay.
     However, there appeared to be a trend for depression compared to the LPS positive
     control. This result is not unexpected as macrophage levels normally take about 6 hours
     to be reliably indicative.
             Protein count is an indicator of lung leak that can result in lung oedema. From
10   Figure 25, there was no evidence of any significant effect (p < 0.05). This suggests that
     the mechanism of EVC PC fucoidan effect is not related to vascular leakage.
             From Figure 26, it can be seen that EVC PC fucoidan significantly depresses
     TNFa concentration in BAL fluid.
             Discussion
15           There is sufficient evidence that EVC PC fucoidan significantly depresses the
     principle cellular markers for acute inflammation (reduction in neutrophil sequestration)
     by approximately 60 %and also depresses TNFa concentration in BAL fluid.
             There is a suggestion that EVC PC fucoidan treatment may also suppress alveolar
     macrophage levels. EVC PC fucoidan does not appear to affect lung leak. However, it
20   appears that EVC PC fucoidan has a significant effect on these two indicators of markers
     for acute inflammation in the lung.
             Preliminary measurement of the effects of EVC 1:1 extract (preparation is
     described in Example 4)       in this same    mouse model of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)
     mediated acute lung inflammation, most notably IL6 results of bronchial lavage fluid, are
25   confirming that the EVC component of the EVC PC fucoidan'composition is having a
     significant contribution to these successful lung inflammation results.
             Human testimonials
             The results from human volunteers who incorporated EVC PC fucoidan into their
     diet are detailed below.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   108
              M,   36, 4.5    g   EVC    PC    fucoidan   per   day  over   a  52-week      period.
     Hypertriglyceridemia. Nine. years ago, diagnosed with very high triglyceride levels in the
     blood (9.9 mmol/L). Dietician proposes and assisted with dramatic dietary change and
     lower alcohol consumption that brought about a lowering of triglyceride to 5.4 mmol/L.
 5   Subsequent medication (fenofibrate) brought levels 'down to 3.9 mmol/L. Stopped taking
     the medication and after 4 months began consuming the EVC PC fucoidan for a year,
     resulting in-a recent level of 2.2 mmol/L.      While still considered in a high range, the
     results are very pleasing for the consumer and his doctor. It should be noted that diet and
     alcohol consumption when taking the EVC PC fucoidan was very poor compared with the
10   dietician administered diet 4 years ago.
              Example 31. Suboptimal metabolic syndrome results (notably abdominal fat
     reduction) when oak/green tea catechin hybrids compete with ethoxylated oak
     production in this formulation that also incorporates omega 3 oil.
              This example describes the preparation of an oak -enriched purple carrot/green
15   tea/linseed oil (PCGTOIL) combination. The effect of the PCGTOIL combination in diet
     induced metabolic syndrome in rats, in particular, the effects on cardiovascular and
     metabolic symptoms are assessed.
             Materialsand methods
              PCGTOIL was prepared as follows.
20                       1. Frozen purple carrot (100 kg) was chopped up using a mincer and
                             placed into 10 expandable cotton bags in a stainless steel vat.
                         2. Red wine (22 % alcohol, 100 L) was pumped over the bagged
                             purple carrot.    Notably, red wine contains catechins, including
                             epicatechin. These catechins compete with ethanol as nucleophiles
25                           in the ethoxylation process.
                         3. The vat was heated to 65 'C for 7 days, after which time the bags
                             were removed and pressed to collect the liquid (about 115 L).

  WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  109
                        4. The liquid was reduced by vacuum distillation to 65 L and purple
                            carrot concentrate (20 L, 60 Brix) and red grape concentrate (5 L,
                            68 Brix) were added to the reduced liquid.
                        5. French oak extract (10 L), derived from 2.5 kg of dry oak extracted
 5                          in 10 L of 22 % alcohol red wine for 2 weeks, was added to the
                           mixture from step 4.
                        6. The resultant mixture from step 5 was combined in a stainless steel
                           vat with dried orange carrot juice powder (7 kg, Nutradry,
                            Queensland Australia), dried beetroot juice powder (7 kg, Nutradry,
10                          Queensland Australia), linseed oil (8 kg, Proteco Queensland) and
                            green tea extract (3 kg hot water extract derived from 0.5 kg dry
                            green tea), mixed for 10 minutes using a paddle mixer and then
                            dried using refractance window drying to produce PCGTOIL.
             Rats were fed an HCHF diet for 16 weeks. The HCHF consisted of fructose
15  (175g), powdered rat food (155g), beef tallow (200g), condensed milk (395g), Hubble,
    Mendel and Wakeman salt mixture (25g) and water (50mi) per kilogram of food. The
    drinking water was augmented with 25% fructose in the water. For the control diet,
     fructose and condensed milk were replaced with corn starch (575g) and.beef tallow was
    replaced with water (200ml). After 8 weeks for the following 8 weeks, the diet was
20  supplemented with PCGTOIL (2% of the diet). Rat body weight, food and water intakes
    were measured daily.      Waist circumference, systolic blood pressure and oral glucose
    tolerance were measured every four weeks. After euthanasia at 16 weeks, organ weights
     (including abdominal fat depots) and heart function (isolated Langendorff heart) were
    measured. All data are presented as meanSEM; n=6-8 for each group. The statistical
25   significance was tested with standard procedures and shown as *P< 0.05 vs. corn starch;
     #P< 0.05 vs. HCHF.
             Results
             The PCGTOIL intake was 0.6+0.03 g/day. Addition of PCGTOIL to the HCHF
     diet resulted in reduced abdominal fat pads and circumference as measures of visceral

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  110
     adiposity.   Cardiovascular parameters such as blood pressure, heart weight and left
     ventricular stiffness were also normalized, and glucose tolerance was improved.
              Data for feed and water intakes for rats on a cornstarch (CS) diet (control), HCHF
     diet or HCHF+PCGTOIL are shown in Figure 27. Data for body weight, % body weight
 5   gain, abdominal circumference and abdominal fat deposition in rats fed a cornstarch (CS)
     diet (control), HCHF diet or HCHF+PCGTOIL are shown in Figure 28. Data for left
     ventricular weight, left ventricular stiffness, systolic blood pressure (SBP) at 16 weeks
     and oral glucose tolerance for rats on a CS diet, HCHF diet or HCHF+PCGTOIL are
     shown in Figure 29.
10            Example 32.     Suboptimal metabolic syndrome results when oak/green tea
     catechin hybrids compete with ethoxylated oak production in this instant tea
     formulation.
             This example describes the preparation of an ethoxylated extract of oak and green
     tea (EVC CAT wine tea) mixed with fucoidan-rich seaweed extract, flavoured with lemon
15   and lime oils, then dried using RWDP to make an instant tea. The extraction medium
     (22 % alcohol red wine) contains catechins (for example, epicatechin) and the mixture
     includes catechin-rich green tea. Specifically, the acid-catalysed ethoxylation conditions
     include the presence of catechin-rich polyphenols that compete with the oak ethoxylation
     process that yields EVC.
20            Ethoxylated green tea extract was prepared by the addition of green tea leaves to
     red wine (22% ethanol) at pH 3.5 in a biomass (green tea) to solvent ratio of 1:4. The
     resultant slurry was allowed to stand at room temperature for 1 hour. The mixture was
     filtered to remove any solid material, and the filtrate was retained.     This product was
     vacuum distilled to achieve 40 Brix.
25            EVC CAT wine extract preparation is described in Example 21. This product was
     vacuum distilled to achieve 40 Brix.
              The bladderwrack seaweed extract powder (Marinova Pty Ltd, Maritech@
     Synergy) has a minimum of 80% fucoidin content.
              The lemon and lime oils are steam distilled food flavourings. The components
30   were combined in the proportions listed in Table 10.

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                111
             Table 10.
                     Component                                Proportion % (w/w)
             Ethoxylated green tea extract                             37
                EVC CAT wine extract                                  57.6
                       Lemon oil                                       1.6
                        Lime oil                                       1.6
     Maritech@ Synergy Fucoidan powder                                 2.2
             The components listed in Table 9 were mixed using a high speed mixer and the
     resultant mixture was dried using RWDP.          The resultant dried product was very
 5   hydroscopic, hence was packed in climate controlled rooms into sealed foil bags. Stored
     in a cooled room until required for use.
             This example also describes the attenuation of cardiovascular and metabolic
     symptoms of metabolic syndrome in rats.
             Materials and methods
10           Rats were fed a high carbohydrate/high fat (HCHF) diet for 16 weeks. The HCHF
     diet consisted of fructose (175 g), powdered rat food (155 g), beef tallow (200 g),
     condensed milk (395 g), Hubble, Mendel and Wakeman salt mixture (25g) and water (50
     mL) per kg of food. The drinking water in the HCHF-fed rats was augmented with 25 %
     fructose in the water. For the control diet, fructose and condensed milk were replaced
15   with corn starch (575 g) and beef tallow was replaced with water (200 mL). After 8
     weeks for the following 8 weeks, the diet was supplemented with seaweed extract (0.5
     g/kg food) and lemon lime tea with seaweed extract (2.7 g/kg food). Rat body weight,
     food and water intakes were measured daily.         Waist circumference, systolic blood
     pressure and oral glucose tolerance were measured every four weeks. After euthanasia at
20   16 weeks, organ weights (including abdominal fat depots) and heart function (isolated
     Langendorff heart) were measured.
             Results
             All data are presented as meanSEM; n=6-8 for each group.         The statistical
     significance was tested with standard procedures and shown as *P< 0.05 vs. corn starch;

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   112
     #P< 0.05 vs. HCHF.
             The intake of seaweed extract was 11.70.5 mg/day and the intake of lemon lime
     tea with seaweed extract was 79.75.0 mg/day.
             As can be seen from Figures 30 and 31, addition of the seaweed extract to the high
 5   carbohydrate, high fat diet in rats reduced abdominal fat pads and circumference as
     measures of visceral adiposity, normalized cardiovascular parameters such as blood
     pressure, heart weight and left ventricular stiffness and also improved glucose tolerance.
             Addition of lemon lime tea containing seaweed extract decreased the
     cardiovascular parameters and improved oral glucose tolerance.         However, the lemon
10   lime tea with seaweed extract had no effect on abdominal fat deposition compared to rats
     fed the high carbohydrate, high fat diet only, and body weight increased more than with
     the high carbohydrate, high fat diet alone.
             While there are positive references to favourable outcomes with hybrids formed
     between C-glycosidic ellagitannins and catechins in the literature (Quideau S, 2009), the
15   results from Example Land this example provide evidence that superior health outcomes
     are achieved with respect to metabolic syndrome when the oak ellagitannins are fully
     ethoxylated (e.g. EVC) without the presence of catechins (for example red wine and green
     tea used in Example 32).
             Example 33. Suboptimal cancer results when oak/green tea catechin hybrids
20   compete with ethoxylated oak production in this instant tea formulation
             This example describes the materials and methods used to measure cancer cell
     numbers in response to EVC CAT wine tea.
             EVC CAT wine tea was prepared as described in Example 32.
              Cell culture andpreparationfor testing efficacy of EVC CAT wine tea
25            Bone metastasised androgen receptor negative prostate cells (PC-3; CRL-1435;
   - American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, VA, USA) were grown in Roswell Park
     Memorial Institute (RPMI) 1640 media supplemented with 10 % fetal calf serum
      (Hyclone), penicillin (100 units/mL) and streptomycin (100 mg/mL).

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  113
              The PC-3 cell line was cultured at 37.8 *C in an incubator providing a humidified
     environment in the presence of 5% CO 2 and 95 % air.
              Treatmentprotocolfor testing efficacy of EVC CAT wine tea
              Exponentially growing cells were cultured in 96-well plates for 24 hours before
 5   treatment with EVC CAT wine tea. EVC CAT wine tea was first diluted to 1 % (w/v) in
     culture medium and sterilised by filtration. Further dilutions were made in the medium to
     achieve lower concentrations. After 72 hours of treatment time, the cells were harvested
     and SYBR green was used to measure the cell numbers.             Untreated cells served as
     controls.
10           Results
              After 72 hours of treatment time, the PC-3 cells were round in shape, but were still
     attached to the bottom of the plate. Whilst 0.1 % of the products inhibited cell growth, it
     did not appear to kill the cells.
              The resultant data are depicted graphically in Figures 32 to 34.       Specifically,
15   Figure 32 illustrates the effect of EVC CAT wine tea extract on the PC-3 prostate cancer
     cell line. Figure 33 illustrates the effect of EVC CAT wine tea extract, seaweed extract
     and combined extracts of EVC CAT wine tea and seaweed on the PC-3 prostate cancer
     cell line, and Figure 34 illustrates the effect of EVC CAT wine tea extract, seaweed
     extract and combined extracts of EVC CAT wine tea and seaweed on non-tumourigenic
20   prostate cells.
              The hybrids formed between C-glycosidic ellagitannins and grape flavan-3-ols
     (acutissimins) have been described in previous art as having favourable results in cancer
     testing (Quideau S, 2009). However, Example 32 illustrates poor results achieved when
     procedures used encourage the formation of acutissimins, as is the case with EVC CAT
25   wine tea.
              Further support to the inferior performance of foods that encourage acutissimins
     production at the expense of ethoxylated C-glycosidic ellagitannins is that no positive
     results were reported with 33 volunteers who consumed EVC CAT wine tea as a treatment
     of prostate cancer, breast cancer, weight loss or arthritis.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   114
              These poor results with EVC CAT wine tea are further emphasized when
     compared with the teas described in Example 4 and Example 7, whereby the C-glycosidic
     ellagitannins are ethoxylated without the presence of flavan-3-ols or tea catechins,
     resulting in very strong in vivo arthritis results and volunteer testimonials report excellent
 5   results with the treatment of prostate cancer, treatment of breast cancer, weight loss and
     arthritis.
              In contrast to the poor EVC CAT wine tea results, fucoidan (SYN) results were
     positive in respect to cancer cell numbers without exhibiting toxic effects to non
     tumourigenic prostate cells.
10            Example 34. Medium dose EVC/ethoxylated turmeric formulation is pleasant
     tasting, well tolerated and produces favourable health outcomes, namely cancer,
     pain associated bone cancer, cold sores, ulcers, improved moods and dementia.
              This example describes the preparation of a high dose ethoxylated oak (3.75 g/30
     mL serve), high dose ethoxylated turmeric (4.5 g turmeric/30 mL serve) beverage
15   concentrate and is given the name EVC Turmeric (4.5 g turmeric, 3.75 g oak/30 mL
     serve), abbreviated as EVCT2.
              EVC 0.75:1 extract and Turmeric 3:1 extract preparations are described in
     Example 26.
              EVC PC preparation is described in Example 23.
20            The filtrates were combined in the proportions as shown in Table 11, to give EVC
     Turmeric (4.5 g turmeric, 3.75 g oak/30 mL serve).

  WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   115
              Table 11.
    Component                                                Proportion by weight (%)
    Purple carrot concentrate (60 Brix)                                59.3
    Blueberry concentrate (65 Brix)                                     15
    De-alcoholised EVC 0.75:1 extract                                   10
    De-alcoholised Turmeric 3:1 extract                                  5
    EVC PC powder                                                       10
    Ascorbic acid                                                       0.6
    Sodium metabisulphate                                              0.05
    Potassium sorbate                                                  0.05
              The components were added in the order they are presented in the Table into a
     circular stainless steel vat and mixed using a low speed circulation stirrer. Stirring was
 5   continued for a further 15 minutes after addition of the potassium sorbate.
              Results
              The results- from human volunteers who incorporated EVC Turmeric (4.5 g
     turmeric, 3.75 g oak/30 mL serve) (EVCT2) into their diet are detailed below.
              M, 74, 100 mL per day. Prostate cancer. PSA is steady. Considerable pain
10   reduction with EVCT2. Used to take 6 Panadiene ForteTM per day.
              M, 80, 75 mL per day. Metastatic prostate cancer. January 2009 advised only 12
     month to live. Commenced EVCT2 in 2010 and also was 1 of 1088 prostate cancer
     patients in 12 countries participating in the ZytigaTM (abiraterone acetate) trial. In the
     ZytigaTM group, the cancer progressed at only half the speed as the control group, with
15   patients reporting significantly less pain and a noticeable delay before they had to
     undertake chemotherapy. EVCT2 patient showed similar response in the 12-month trial
     (no pain) and was considered the "leader of the group" based on tests, hence oncologist
     decided to continue with the same "treatment" for a further 1.5 years. After 2.5 years on
     the trial it was discovered that the patient was on a placebo.

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                 116
              F, 60, 100 mL per day. Breast cancer metastasized to bone. 50 mL diluted 1:1 in
     water. Held in mouth for 1 minute before swallowing. Cancer marker (CA 15.3) 86 to 36
     in 18 months.
              M, 71, 40 mL per day. Prostate cancer with lymph metastasis. PSA reduction
 5   with EVCT2.
              F, 52, 20 mL per day. Suffering mouth cold sores/ulcers for a few months.
     Problem reduced within 4 weeks use of EVCT2.
              M, 81, 25 mL per day. Dementia - 9 years. Maintains good moods, no temper or
     aggression while on EVCT2. Carer nurse reports that he has not deteriorated like other
10   patients. Nurse considers that it has slowed down the disease progression.
              Example 35. Medium dose EVC/non-ethoxylated food extract formulation
     produces significant results in cancer re-occurrence in-vitro/human and favourable
     health outcomes in cancer, life extension, dementia, aggression associated with
     dementia, cold sores, ulcers and pain associated with bone-cancer.
15            This example describes the testing of EVC purple carrot blueberry concentrate
     (EVC-PCBC) on non-synchronised prostate and breast cancer cell lines.
              Materialsand Methods
              This example describes the preparation of ethoxylated vescalagin/castalagin rich
     extract (EVC), ethoxylated winegrape extracts and non-ethoxylated food extracts into a
20   coloured substrate (CS) base of purple carrot vegetable juice concentrate and blueberry
     fruit juice concentrate, named EVC purple carrot blueberry concentrate (EVC-PCBC).
              EVC-PCBC is a blend of four components, namely (a) ethoxylated oak aged
     winegrape extract (ethoxylated vescalagin/castalagin rich extract (EVC)), (b) ethoxylated
     grape seed/skin extract, (c) non-ethoxylated food pulp extracts (ginger, turmeric, citrus
25   skins and green tea), (d) on a coloured substrate (CS) base of purple carrot concentrate
     and blueberry juice concentrate.
              Grape brandy (5 kg, 62 % v/v) with pH 3.5 was added to European oak chips (1
     kg, Quercus Robur/Quercuspetraea L.) and allowed to stand for a period of 2 months at
     room temperature. The mixture was then filtered to remove the solid material and the

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    117
      filtrate, being, an ethanolic EVC extract, was retained. This ethanolic extract is named
     EVC 1:4 extract.
               An extract of red wine grape skins and seeds, which is a byproduct of a
     winemaking process, and therefore comprises ethoxylated components was added to
 5   ethanol (96 % v/v, derived from cane sugar) at pH 6 in a 1:1 biomass:solvent ratio. The
     resultant solution had a pH of 4.5 and was allowed to stand at room temperature for 2 to 3
     weeks.      The mixture was filtered to remove any solid material, and the filtrate was
     retained.
               Non-ethoxylated turmeric and ginger extracts were prepared by placing whole
10   fruit in a juice extractor. The resultant pulp/skin was added to, an equal weight of ethanol
     (96 % v/v, derived from cane sugar) at pH 6 in a 1:1 ratio for about 3 weeks at room
     temperature. The mixture was filtered to remove any solid material, and the filtrate Was
     retained.
               Non-ethoxylated citrus skin/pulp were prepared individually from whole citrus
15   fruit (orange, lemon, mandarin, Tahitian lime, kaffir lime) processed through a
     commercial juice extractor. The resultant pulp/skin (biomass) was added to an equal
     weight of ethanol (96 % v/v, derived from cane sugar) at pH 6 for about 2 to 3 weeks at
     room temperature. The mixture was pressed using a wine grape press, then filtered to
     remove any solid material. The filtrate was retained.
20             Non-ethoxylated green tea extract was prepared by the addition of green tea leaves
     to ethanol (96 % v/v, derived from cane sugar) at pH 6 in a 1:4 ratio. The resultant slurry
     was allowed to stand at room temperature for 1 hour. The mixture was filtered to remove
     any solid material, and the filtrate was retained.
               The filtrates were combined in the proportions as shown in Table 12.
25

   WO 2014/071438                                                             PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   118
              Table 12.
                      Component                                  Proportion (%, v/v)
                   EVC 1:4 extract                                       9.7
                  Wine grape extract                                     9.7
          Non-ethoxylated turmeric extract                               7.5
           Non-ethoxylated ginger extract                               25.9
        Non-ethoxylated citrus pulp extract                             37.5
         Non-ethoxylated green tea extract                               9.7
              The resultant blend was reduced to 25 % of the original volume using vacuum
     distillation to provide a de-alcoholized blend.        The de-alcoholized blend was then
 5   combined with concentrates in the proportions shown in Table 13.
              Table 13.
                     Concentrate                                 Proportion (%, v/v)
           De-alcoholized blend (Table 12)                               15.8
         Purple carrot concentrate (60 Brix)                            68.4
           Blueberry concentrate (65 Brix)                               15.8
              The mixture according to Table 13 was placed into a stainless steel vat and
     blended for 2 hours.       The blended mixture was then combined with dry products
10   according to Table 14 and blended for an additional 1 hour.
              Table 14.
                      Component                                       Quantity
            Extract blend (as in Table 13)                            100 mL
                 Purple carrot powder                                   8.4 g
                    Ascorbic acid                                         Ig
                  Potassium sorbate                                    0.05 g
                Sodium metabisulphite                                  0.06 g
              The cell cultures and testing were as described in Example 39.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   119
             For the serum withdrawal experiments, LNCaP prostate cancer cells were
     deprived of serum for 7 days and-0.5 million cells were re-plated to T75 flasks in the
     presence of serum. The cells were cultured in the absence or presence of EVC-PCBC at
     varying concentrations for two weeks.
 5           For the contact inhibition experiments, PC-3 cells were confluent for three days
     and replated to new culture flasks at low density. The cells were then treated with
     different doses of EVC-PCBC for three days prior to analysis of cell cycle status (with re
     entry to the cell cycle indicative of cancer re-occurrence).
             Results
10           EVC-PCBC was tested on non-synchronised LNCaP, MDA-PCa-2b and PC-3
     prostate cancer cell lines and MDA-MB-231 breast cell lines.
             The resultant data are depicted graphically in Figures 35 to 39.
             Data for the treatment of quiescent PC-3 prostate cancer cells with EVC-PCBC is
     also presented in Table 15.
15           Table 15.
                               Sample            GO-G1          S        G2-M
                              Control 1            64.6        12.6       22.8
                              Control 2            64.5        11.8       23.6
                              Control 3            64.9        11.9       23.1
                               Average             64.7        12.1       23.2
                        1: 0.2 %EVC-PCBC           71.4        7.34       21.1
                       2: 0.2 %EVC-PCBC            70.1        8.12       21.7
                       3: 0.2 %EVC-PCBC            70.3        8.03       21.5
                               Average             70.6        7.8        21.4
                       4: 0.4 %EVC-PCBC            78.3       4.85        16.8
                       5: 0.4 % EVC-PCBC           78.8        4.7        16.4
                       6: 0.4 % EVC-PCBC            78         4.9        17.1
                               Average             78.4        4.8        16.8

  WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                 120
              From the results presented in Table 15 and Figure 39, it can be seen that EVC
     PCBC increased the proportion of cancer cells at GO-GI phase, but decreased the
     proportion in S and G2-M phase, suggesting that EVC-PCBC is likely to inhibit PC-3
     quiescent cancer cells from re-entering the cell cycle, thereby inhibiting cancer
 5   reoccurrence.
              Human testimonials
              The results from a human volunteer who incorporated the EVC-PCBC into his
     diet are detailed below.
              M, 44, 240 mL of EVC-PCBC per day (3 x 80 mL mixed with equal volume water)
10   for 26 weeks. Skin cancer with metastasis in lung and liver. 240 mL of EVC-PCBC per
     day translates to the ethoxylated extract derived from 3.75 g dry oak per day. First
     diagnosed with skin cancer at the back of the leg 4 years ago. Successful tumour removal
     by surgery. Subsequent PET scans confirmed lung metastasis (3 cm diameter) and liver
     metastasis (3 cm diameter). Doctors estimate with treatment (chemotherapy) has only 6
15   months life expectancy. Chose not to follow the chemotherapy route, given the poor
     prognosis. After 1 month of very high dose EVC-PCBC consumption, PET scan reveals
     that lung and liver tumours are reduced to half size.        After 2 months EVC-PCBC
     consumption, PET scan unable to find the tumours. Subsequent scans and confirmation
     from skin cancer specialist over the next 3 years confirm that is cancer free. Stopped
20   taking the EVC-PCBC after 6 months on consumption. It should also be noted that did
     take other supplements during this timeframe and expanded the spiritual dimensions of
     his life (Mary MacKillop church in Brisbane).
              Example 36. Low dose EVC/ethoxylated food extract is unpleasant tastewise,
     well tolerated and produces significant health outcomes in cancer.
25            This example describes the preparation of ethoxylated oak (ethoxylated
     vescalagin-rich/castalagin-rich) extract (EVC) formulated into a mixture of ethoxylated
     food extracts and fresh ginger juice. This mixture is given the name EVC food extract.
     The mixture is an example of a dietary supplement or an additive package for foods.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   121
              Materialsand Methods
              EVC food extract
               Grape brandy (4 kg, 62 % v/v) with pH 3.5 was added to European oak chips (1
     kg, Quercus Robur/Quercuspetraea L.) and allowed to stand for a period of 2 months at
 5   room temperature. The mixture was then filtered to remove the solid material and the
     filtrate, being an alcoholic EVC extract, was retained.
               Ethoxylated turmeric and ginger extracts were prepared by placing whole fruit in a
     juice extractor. The resultant pulp/skin was added to an equal weight of grape brandy
     (62 % alcohol) at pH 3.5 for about 4 weeks at room temperature. The mixture was
10   filtered to remove any solid material, and the filtrate was retained.
               Ethoxylated extracts of olive leaf were prepared by the addition of fresh olive leaf
     to ethanol (96 %v/v, derived from grapes) at pH 4.3 in a 1:4 ratio. Typically, the mixture
     was allowed to sit for about one week prior to filtering, to allow for complete extraction
     and ethyoxylation.
15             Ethoxylated citrus skin extracts were prepared individually from whole fruit
     (orange, lemon, mandarin, Tahitian lime and kaffir lime) placed in a juice extractor. The
     resultant pulp/skin was added to an equal weight of ethanol (96% v/v, derived from
     grapes) at pH 4.3 for about 3 weeks at room temperature. The mixture was pressed using
     a wine grape press, then filtered to remove any solid material. The filtrate was retained.
20             Ethoxylated green tea extract was prepared by the addition of green tea leaves to
     ethanol (96 % v/v, derived from grapes) at pH 4.3 in a 1:4 ratio. The resultant solution
     was allowed to stand at room temperature for 1 hour. The mixture was filtered to remove
     any solid material, and the filtrate was retained.
               Ethoxylated tarragon extract was prepared by drying freshly picked tarragon
25    (Tagetes lucida).leaves and adding to ethanol (96 % v/v, derived from grapes, pH 4.3) in a
      1:4 ratio. The resultant mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for 5 to 7 days.
     The mixture was then filtered to removeany solid material, and the filtrate was retained.
               The filtrates were combined in the proportions as shown in Table 16.

     WO 2014/071438                                                               PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                      122
                Table 16.
                       Component                                    Proportion (% w/w)
                 Ethoxylated EVC extract                                      6.6
               Ethoxylated turmeric extract                                   6.5
                Ethoxylated ginger extract                                   32.6
               Ethoxylated olive leaf extract                                 5.2
              Ethoxylated citrus skin extracts                                26
               Ethoxylated tarragon extract                                   6.6
               Ethoxylated green tea extract                                  6.6
            Ethoxylated grape seed/skin extract                               6.6
          Raspberry juice concentrate (62 Brix)                               3.3
                The resultant blend of filtrates was combined with an equal volume of fresh ginger
       juice. The fresh ginger juice was obtained by placing whole ginger into a juice extractor
-  5    to produce ginger juice and ginger pulp.       The combined filtrate blend and ginger juice
        was further fortified with ascorbic acid, citric acid and hesperidin, as shown in Table 17.
                Table 17.
                       Component                                         Quantity
       Filtrate blend (as in Table 16)/ginger juice       100 mL (50 mL filtrate blend from Table
                       combination                                 16/50 mL ginger juice)
                      Ascorbic acid                                         0.11 g
                         Citric acid                                        0.15 g
                        Hesperidin                                         0.095 g
                The final product is named EVC food extract.
  10            Cell culture andpreparationfor testing efficacy of E VC food extract
                Exponentially growing cells. were cultured in six-well plates, T25 flasks or T75
        flasks for 3 days before treatment with EVC food extract. EVC food extract was first
        diluted to 0-8 % in each culture medium and sterilised by filtration. Further dilutions

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   123
     were made in the corresponding medium to achieve lower concentrations at 0-2 and 0-4 %.
     All cell lines were treated for 72 h and the untreated cells served as controls.
             Results
             The EVC food extract was tested on the J82 bladder cancer cell line, the HT 1376
 5   bladder cancer cell line, the AGS stomach cancer cell line, the breast cancer cell lines
     MDA-MB-468 and MDA-MB-231, the colon cancer cell lines LS180 and DLD-1, the
     PC-3 and LNCaP prostate cancer cell lines and the androgen insensitive LNCaP (AI
     LNCaP) prostate cancer cell line.
             The resultant data are depicted graphically in Figures 40 to 49.
10           Example 37. Low dose EVC/ethoxylated food extract/non-ethoxylated green
     tea formulation produces significant health outcomes in cancer.
             This example describes the preparation. of a green tea fortified with polyphenol
     rich extracts (EVC-EFOOD TEA). The EVC-EFOOD TEA was tested on a Panc 5.04
     pancreatic cancer cell line and LNCaP, PC3 and DU145 prostate cancer cell lines.
15           Materials and Methods
             EVC-EFOOD TEA is a blend of four components:
     (a)     ethoxylated oak-aged winegrape extract (ethoxylated vascalagin/castalagin rich
     extract (EVC) combined with ethoxylated grape seed/skin extract);
     (b)     ethoxylated food extracts (ginger, turmeric, citurs skins, olive leaf, green tea
20   extract);
     (c)     Baikal skullcap (Scutellariabaicalensis);and
     (d)     Panaxginseng;
     dried on a loose-leaf green tea substrate.
             The preparation of the ethoxylated oak-aged winegrape extract and the
25   ethoxylated food extracts is described in Example 36.
             EVC-EFOOD TEA was prepared as follows.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    124
             Dried root of Scutellaria baicalensis (100g) was soaked with ethanol (95%, pH
     6.0) for 4 weeks, filtered and filtrate retained.
             Panax ginseng powder (100g, Jian Pharmaceuticals, PRC) was soaked with
 5   ethanol (95%, pH 6.0) for 4 weeks, filtered and filtrate retained.
             The extracts were combined in the proportions as shown in Table 18.
             Table 18.
                    Concentrate                                      Proportion
     Extract mixture described in Example 36,
                       Table 16
               Baikal skullcap extract                                  3%
                   Panaxginseng                                         2%
             The resultant alcoholic mixture described in Table 16 (1kg) was mixed into loose
10   leaf gunpowder green tea (4kg, Madura Tea Estate, NSW, Australia) and allowed to dry at
     ambient conditions for 2 days'
             EVC-EFOOD TEA (2 g) was added to boiling water (150 mL) and allowed to
     extract for 5 minutes. A 10 % solution was prepared from the extract and used as a stock
     solution. From the stock solution (10 %), further serial dilutions were made to produce
15   solutions ranging from 5 %down to 0.08 %.
             The cell cultures and testing were as described in Example 39.        Specifically,
     measurement of DNA content was undertaken using SYBR green in a surrogate assay for
     cell numbers.
             Results
20           The EVC-EFOOD TEA was tested on a Panc 5.04 pancreatic cancer cell line and
     LNCaP, PC3 and DU145 prostate cancer cell lines.
             The resultant data are depicted graphically in Figures 50 to 53.

  WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                 125
            Best results in cancer cell number reduction were achieved with the DU145 cell
    line (moderate metastatic potential, not hormone sensitive) and PC3 cell line (high
    metastatic potential, not hormone sensitive).
            Example 38. Low dose EVC/ethoxylated food extract (Example 36 above)
 5  cancer results are improved by the addition of anthocyanin rich fruit juice
    concentrates to the formulation.
            This example describes the preparation of fully ethoxylated extract EVC food
    extract blended into a coloured substrate (CS) base. The rationale for the testing of this
    particular food formulation was to assess the value of highly coloured substrates replacing
10  fresh ginger juice in the same prostate cancer cell lines.
            Materialsand Methods
            The fully ethoxylated extract formula described in Example 36 (Table 16) was
    added to fruit juice concentrates in the proportions as shown in Table 19.
            Table 19.
                    Concentrate                                Proportion (% v/v)
             Filtrate blend (Table 16)                                  20
         Blueberry concentrate (65 Brix)                                 8
         Red grape concentrate (68 Brix)                                48
        White grape concentrate (68 Brix)                               19
              Elderberry concentrate                                     5
15
            The cell cultures and testing were as described in Example 39.
            Results
            The EVC food extract and EVC food extract/CS were tested on the LNCaP and
    PC3 prostate cancer cell lines.
20          The resultant data are depicted graphically in Figures 54 to 56.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   126
                Example 39. Low dose EVC/non-ethoxylated food extracts/ethoxylated food
      extracts/anthocyanin rich non-ethoxylated fruit juice concentrates with significant
      cancer results.
                This example describes the preparation of ethoxylated oak (ethoxylated
 5   vescalagin-rich/castalagin-rich)    extract (EVC), its formulation into a mixture of
     ethoxylated extracts and non-ethoxylated extracts, and highly coloured fruit juice
     concentrate to form a concentrated beverage formula for use in the prevention and
     treatment of cancer. This food composition is given the name EVC blueberry juice blend.
               Materialsand Methods
10              Specifically, the EVC is formulated with ethoxylated extracts (ginger, turmeric
      and grape seed/skin extracts), and non-ethoxylated extracts (citrus skin extracts, olive
      leave extract, green tea extract, tarragon) on a coloured substrate (CS) base of fruit juice
     concentrates (blueberry, raspberry, elderberry).
                Grape brandy (4 kg, 62 % v/v) with pH 3.5 was added to European oak chips (1
15    Kg, Quercus Robur/Quercuspetraea L.) and allowed to stand for a period of 2 months at
     room temperature. The mixture was then filtered to remove the solid material and the
      filtrate, being an ethanolic EVC 1:4 extract, was retained.
                An extract of red wine grape skins and seeds, which is a byproduct of a
     winemaking process, and therefore comprises ethoxylated components was added to
20   ethanol (96 % v/v, derived from cane sugar) at'pH 6 in a 1:1 ratio. The resultant solution
     had a pH of 4.5 and was allowed to stand at room temperature for 2 to 3 weeks. The
     mixture was filtered to remove any solid material, and the filtrate was retained.
                Ethoxylated turmeric and ginger extracts were prepared by placing whole fruit in a
     juice extractor. The resultant pulp/skin was added to an equal weight of grape brandy
25    (62 % alcohol) at pH 3.5 for about 3 weeks at room' temperature. The mixture was
      filtered to remove any solid material, and the filtrate was retained.
               Non-ethoxylated extracts of olive leaf were prepared by the addition of fresh olive
      leaf to ethanol (96 % v/v, derived from cane sugar) at pH 6 in a 1:4 ratio. Typically, the
     mixture was left for one week prior to filtering, to allow for complete extraction.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  127
              Non-ethoxylated citrus skin extracts were prepared individually from whole fruit
     (orange, lemon, mandarin, Tahitian lime and kaffir lime) placed in a juice extractor. The
     resultant pulp/skin was added to an equal weight of ethanol (96 % v/v, derived from cane
     sugar) at pH 6 for about 2 to 3 weeks at room temperature. The mixture was pressed
 5   using a wine grape press, then filtered to remove any solid material. The filtrate was
     retained.
              Non-ethoxylated green tea extract was prepared by the addition of green tea leaves
     to ethanol (96 % v/v, derived from cane sugar) at pH 6 in a 1:4 ratio. The resultant
     solution was allowed to stand at room temperature for 1 hour. The mixture was filtered to
10   remove any solid material, and the filtrate was retained.
              The filtrates were combined in the proportions as shown in Table 20.
              Table 20.
                      Component                                Proportion (%, w/w)
                   EVC 1:4 extract                                      3.6
             Ethoxylated turmeric extract                               6.6
              Ethoxylated ginger extract                                32
     Ethoxylated grape seed/grape skin extract                          6.4
         Non-ethoxylated olive leaf extract                              5
        Non-ethoxylated citrus skin extracts                            25
         Non-ethoxylated green tea extract                              6.4
          Non-ethoxylated tarragon extract                              3.2
                       Hesperidin                                        5
                     Ascorbic acid                                       6
                       Citric acid                                      0.8
              The resultant blend was reduced to 25 % of the original volume using vacuum
15   distillation to provide a de-alcoholized extract blend. The de-alcoholized extract blend
     was then combined with concentrates in the proportions shown in Table 21.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   128
             Table 21.
                     Concentrate                                Proportion (%, v/v)
                De-alcoholized blend                                     20
           Blueberry concentrate (65 Brix)                               7.3,
          Raspberry concentrate (62 Brix)                                3.4
          Elderberry concentrate (60 Brix)                               4.2
         Shiraz grape concentrate (68 Brix)                             46.3
         White grape concentrate (68 Brix)                              18.8
             The resultant mix comprised 95 % blueberry/grape concentrates and 5 % de
     alcoholised blend (EVC blueberry juice blend).
 5           Cell culture andpreparationfortesting efficacy of EVC blueberryjuice blend
             Lymph node-metastasised prostate cancer cells (LNCaP; CRL-1740, ATCC) and
     bone metastasised androgen receptor negative prostate cells (PC-3; CRL-1435; American
     Type Culture Collection, Manassas, VA, USA) were grown in Roswell Park Memorial.
     Institute (RPMI) 1640 media supplemented with 10 % fetal calf serum (Hyclone),
10   penicillin (100 units/mL) and streptomycin (100 mg/mL).
             Bone metastasised androgen receptor positive prostate cells (MDA-PCa-2b; CRL
     2422, ATCC) were grown in F-12K nutrient mixture (Invitrogen) supplemented with
     20 % fetal calf serum, penicillin (100 units/mL), streptomycin (100 mg/mL), epidermal
     growth factor (10 ng/mL), SmM-phos-phoethanolamine, cholera toxin (25 ng/mL),
15   hydrocortisone (0.1 ng/mL), selenious acid (45 nM) and insulin (5 mg/mL).
              All the cell lines were cultured at 37.8 *C in an incubator providing a humidified
     environment in the presence of 5% CO2 and 95 % air.
              Treatmentprotocolfor testing efficacy of EVC blueberryjuice blend
              Exponentially growing cells were cultured in six-well plates, T25 flasks or T75
20   flasks for 3 days before treatment with EVC blueberry juice blend. EVC blueberry juice
     blend was first diluted to 0.8 % in each culture medium and sterilised by filtration.
     Further dilutions were made in the corresponding medium to achieve                    lower

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   129
     concentrations at 0.2 and 0.4 %. All cell lines were treated for 72 h and the untreated
     cells served as controls.
              Detection of cellular DNA synthesis following EVC blueberry juice blend
     treatment
 5            The cells were treated with EVC blueberry juice blend in T25 flasks and their
     DNA synthesis was monitored by the incorporation of 5-ethynyl-20-deoxyuridine (EdU)
     to newly synthesized DNA with Click-iTe EdU Flow Cytometry Assay Kit (C35002;
     Invitrogen).    Following this, 8 hours before completion of treatment, the exhausted
     medium was removed and the cells were incubated in the fresh medium containing 10
10   mM-EdU and EVC blueberry juice blend at each corresponding concentration.
              The cells were then trypsinised and fixed in cold 70 % ethanol in PBS at 48 *C
     overnight. The fixed cells were then washed with PBS containing 5 % fetal calf serum
     and the incorporated EdU was labelled with reaction cocktails according to the assay
     instructions. The labelled cells were analysed by a flow cytometer (BD FACSCalibur;
15   BD Biosciences) equipped with CellQuest Pro software (BD Biosciences) to determine
     the percentage of cells with incorporated EdU.
              Cell cycle analysis oftreated cells with addition of EVC blueberryjuice blend
              The cell cycle distribution of the treated cells was determined by flow cytometry.
     The cells treated in T25 flasks were collected and fixed in cold 70% ethanol in PBS
20   overnight at 48 "C.       After being washed in PBS, the cells were incubated in PBS
     containing 100 mg/mL RNase and 20mg/mL propidium iodide at 37.8 *C for 60 min.
     Thereafter, the DNA content was analysed by the flow cytometer.
              immunocytochemistry determination
              Expression of Ki-67 and phospho-retinoblastoma (pRb) protein at Ser807/811 was
25   determined by immunostaining. The treated cells in T75 flasks were trypsinised, fixed in
      10% buffered formalin solution overnight at 48 *C, and then processed for paraffin blocks.
      Sections with 5mm thickness were baked at 60.8 *Cfor 1 hour, deparaffinised in xylene,
     re-hydrated in graded ethanol and distilled water, and subjected to antigen retrieval in Tris
     -EDTA solution.

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                    130
             The sections were then blocked with 10 % horse serum and incubated with each
     primary antibody for 20 h at 48 *C. The sections were washed with Tris-buffered saline
     with Tween (TBST) and sequentially labelled with a biotinylated secondary antibody
     (RA-1000) and Vectastain ABC kit (PK-4000) from Vector Laboratories.
 5           The immuno-labelling         of indicated antigens was detected with 3, 3'
     diaminobenzidine (K3468; Dako). The immuno-labelled sections were counterstained
     with haematoxylin and cover-slipped. The primary antibodies to Ki-67 (RM-9106-S) and
     pRb at Ser807/811 (9308) were purchased from Labvision and Cell Signalling
     Technology, respectively.
10           Quantificationof immunostainedcells
             Immunostained sections were scanned by an automated cellular imaging system
     equipped with automated cellular imaging system (ACIS) software (ACIS III; Dako) to
     acquire digital images. Next, two colour thresholds were selected on the images to
     distinguish between the positively stained (dark brown) and negatively stained (blue) cells.
15   The cells in ten randomly selected fields were then analysed. The percentage of positive
     cells of each sample was calculated using the following formula:
             positive cells / (positive cells + negative cells) X 100%
             Immunoblotting
             The cells treated in six-well plates were harvested in lysis buffer (50 mM-Tris-pH
20   8, 150 mM-NaCl, I % Igepal CA-630, 0.5 % sodium deoxycholate, 0.1 % SDS)
     supplemented with protease inhibitor cocktail (11836145001; Roche) and 50 mM sodium
     fluoride.
             Protein concentration was quantified using a Bio-Rad Protein Assay (Bio-Rad).
     The- proteins in the lysates were separated on SDS-PAGE and transferred onto a nitro
25   cellulose membrane (RPN303E; Amersham Biosciences).
             The membranes were blocked with 1 % non-fat milk in phosphate-buffered
     saline-Tween (PBST) for*30 minutes and incubated with primary antibody for I - 2 days
     at 48 *C. The blots were washed, and incubated with appropriate secondary antibodies
     conjugated with peroxidase (Sigma-Aldrich) and Precision Strep Tactin-Peroxidase

   WO 2014/071438                                                        PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                 131
     Conjugate (161-0380; Bio-Rad) for 3 hours. The immuno-labelling was revealed by
     SuperSignal West Pico Chemiluminescent Substrate (34 078; Thermo Scientific).
              Immuno-labelled protein bands were captured by a charge-coupled device (CCD)
     camera built in a gel documentation and analysis.system (Syngene). The band intensity
 5   on saved digital images was measured using Phoretics ID Advanced software (Non
     Linear Dynamics) and the ratio of band intensity between proteins of interest and loading
     control was calculated.      The primary antibodies against Cyclin E (Sc-198), cyclin
     dependent kinase (CDK) 2 (Sc-748), CDK4 (Sc-749), cell division cycle (CDC) 6 (Sc
     9964) and minichromosome maintenance complex (MCM7) (Sc-22782) were obtained
10   from Santa Cruz Biotechnology; antibodies against Cyclin Dl (C7464) were obtained
     from Sigma-Aldrich; the antibodies to a-tubulin (ab7291) and glyceraldehyde 3
     phosphate dehydrogenase (ab8245) were obtained from Abcam.
             Statisticalanalysis
              Statistical comparison was performed using NCSS PASS version 12.0 (NCSS
15   Statistical and Power Analysis Software). The processed data were analysed using one
     way ANOVA to determine if a significant change had occurred. Fisher's least significant
     difference multiple-comparison test (significance: P<0.05) and Kruskal - Wallis multiple
     comparison z-value test (significance: z-value of 1.96) were applied to determine which
     doses of EVC blueberry juice blend had a significant effect.
20            Results
              To determine the effect of EVC blueberry juice blend treatment on cell cycle
     phase distribution, LNCaP, PC-3 and MDA-PCa-2b cells were treated with EVC
     blueberry juice blend (up to 0.8 % in corresponding culture medium) for 72 h and then
     stained with propidium iodide and analysed by flow cytometry.
25            Treatment with 0.2    - 0.4 % EVC blueberry juice blend blocked cell cycle
     progression in LNCaP, PC-3 and MDA-PCa-2b cell lines as manifested by an
     accumulation of cells in the GO/G 1 phase and a reduction in the percentage of cells in the
     S or G2/M phase as detailed in Table 22. Specifically, Table 22 details the cell cycle
     phase distribution of lymph node-metastasised prostate cancer cells (LNCaP), bone
30   metastasised androgen receptor negative prostate cells (PC-3) and bone metastasised

  WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  132
    androgen receptor positive prostate cells (MDA-PCa-2b) measured by flow cytometry
    (average percentage of cells with standard deviation in three independent experiments).
            Table 22.
                                                             LNCaP
                                      GOIG1 phase           S phase         G2/M phase
                                    Mean        so      Mean        so     Mean       so
              0% EVC Blueberry        '73.1     1.0     &0.3               20-0      0-8
              0.2% EVC Blueberry 73.7*          0.8     02a         0.2    19-5*     0.8
              0.4% EVC Blueberry 79 -*          0-9     4 -9          -    15 5*     0-7
              0.8% EVC Blueberry 82-3'          0.8     4 -5b       0.6    13-04     0.7
                                                              PC43
                                       G(YGI phase          S phase         G2/M phase
                                      Mean       so     Mean         so    Mean       so
               0%EVC Blueberry        60-6      07      16-*        03     23-3       0.3
               0.2% EVC Blueberry 62 -0 t       02      15-SO       02     22-Z3      0.1
               0.4% EVC Blueberry 6.7c           1.2    12-r7       08     2 1 -00    10
               0.8% EVC Blueberry ?0.34         0.7      8-6        0.1    20-5       0.5
                                                        MDAPCa-2b
                                       GO/GI phase          S phase         G2/M phase
                                      Mean       SO     Mean         sn    Mean       so
               0% EVC Blueberry       73-2A     0.6     11-4"       0.4    11-5,     0.6
               0.2% EVC Blueberry     74-W-     0.4     11'W        0.1    10.8,     0.4.
               0.4% EVC Blueberry     76.7r     0-3     10-3-       0-1     9-5b     0.4
               0.8% EVC Blueberry     82-5*     0.1      7.0        0.2     6-3      0.2
 5          a,b,c,d Mean values within a column. with unlike superscript letters were
    significantly different (P<0-05).
            A further retardation of cell cycle progression was noted with 0.8 % EVC
    blueberry juice blend treatment.
            To confirm the reduction of cells in the S phase, DNA synthesis was monitored by
10  EdU incorporation using flow cytometry. Treatment with EVC blueberry juice blend at
    the concentration of 0.2-0.4 %decreased DNA synthesis, as shown in Figure 57.

  WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  133
             Specifically, Figure 57 (A) shows the results for lymph node-metastasised prostate
     cancer cells, LNCap, Figure 57 (B) shows the results for bone metastasised androgen
     receptor negative prostate cells, PC-3, and Figure 57 (C) shows the results for bone
     metastasised    androgen    receptor positive    prostate   cells, MDA-PCa-2b following
 5   incubation with EVC blueberry juice blend for 72 h, labelled with 10 mM 5-ethynyl-20
     deoxyuridine for 8 h, and then analysed by flow cytometry. The values are means, with
     standard deviations represented by vertical bars.
             The proliferation of lymph node-metastasised prostate cancer cells (LNCaP), bone
    'metastasised androgen receptor negative prostate cells (PC-3) and bone metastasised
10   androgen receptor positive prostate cells (MDA-PCa-2b) cells measured by Ki-67
     staining is detailed in Table 23.
             Table 23.
                                            LNCaP                PC-3          MDA-PCa-2b
                                        Mean       so       Mean        so    Mean       So
               0% EVC Blueberry         74,9      2.9       7,-8        7:3    45.7"     4.8
               0.2% EVC Blueberry       75-9"     3-0      71-8         2.1    35V       2.5
               0.4% EVC Blueberry       59-2"     3.5      63-9        -0.1    32.5*     1-8
               0.8% EVC Blueberry       24-8      9.7      24-8'        2.0    10.2:     1.5
                  Mean valueswithin a column with unlike superscript letters were significantly
15   different (P<0.05)
             The data shown in Table 23 is the average percentage of Ki-67 positive cells with
     standard deviation from ten randomly selected fields in three independent experiments.
             Data relating to the phosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein in lymph node
     metastasised prostate cancer cells (LNCaP), bone metastasised androgen receptor
20   negative prostate cells (PC-3) and bone metastasised androgen receptor positive prostate
     cells (MDA-PCa-2b) cells is shown in Table 24.

   WO 2014/071438                                                            PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   134
              Table 24.
                                             LNCaP                  PC-3            MDA-PCa-2b
                                         Mean         SD     Mean         so        Mean        SD
                0% EVC Blueberry         27-8a       4.9     66.5a        1.7      '20.r        2-8
                0.2% EVC Blueberry       18 -4b       17     2 7 -6     - 1.1        7 -2 b     1-4
                0.4% EVC Blueberry         7-9"'      1.5    11.4c        0.3        6.7b       2.1
                0.8% EVC Blueberry         594        1        7.0        0-0        3-8c       1-5
              a,b,c,d Mean values within a column with unlike superscript letters were
     significantly different (P<0.05)
 5            The data shown in Table 24 is the average percentage of phospho-retinoblastoma
     protein-positive cells with standard deviation from ten randomly selected fields in three
      independent experiments.
              These results suggest that EVC blueberry juice blend blocks a transition from the
     G1 to the S phase in treated cells. Experiments were then undertaken to determine the
10    levels of cyclin-CDK and the inhibitor p27 involved at the G1-S transition in LNCaP and
     PC-3 cells.      As can be seen from Figure 58, EVC blueberry juice blend treatment
     decreased the protein levels of cyclin D I/CDK4 and cyclin E/CDK2 in both cell lines.
              In LNCaP cells, the observed decreases in the expression of these Gl-S transition
     regulators are EVC blueberry juice blend dose-dependent except for CDK2, where a
15   further decrease at 0.8 % EVC blueberry juice blend did not reach the significance levels.
              In PC-3 cells, the decrease in cyclin and CDK did not reach statistical significance
     at 0.2 - 0.4 % EVC blueberry juice blend, but became significant at 0.8 % EVC blueberry
     juice blend.
              Concurrently, the treatment elevated the protein levels of p27 relative to the
20   control in a dose-dependent manner in LNCaP and although there was a trend of increase
     in p27 in PC-3, a significant increase was noted only at 0.8% EVC blueberry juice blend
      (Figure 59).
              The top portion of Figure 59 shows exponentially growing lymph node
      metastasised prostate cancer cells (LNCaP) and bone metastasised androgen receptor

   WO 2014/071438                                                           PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  135
     negative prostate cells (PC-3) cells that were treated with 0 % EVC blueberry juice blend
     as control (CONTROL) or with the indicated concentrations of EVC blueberry juice
     blend for 72 h.
             Representative immunoblots of cyclin D1, cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)4,
 5   cyclin E, CDK2 and p27 are shown in the lower portion of Figure 59.
             The immuno-labelled proteins on the blots were quantified by densitometry and
     each protein of interest was normalised by a loading control (a-tubulin or glyceraldehyde
     3-phosphate dehydrogenase). The resulting ratio for each dose of EVC blueberry juice
     blend was then calibrated by the control (0 % EVC blueberry juice blend) that was
10   arbitrarily set as 1. Values are means, with standard deviations represented by vertical
     bars of three independent experiments, noting that mean values were significantly
     different for PC-3 (light grey bars) compared to those for the controls (P<0.05).
             The formation of the pre-replication complex is a pre-requisite for DNA
     replication.   MCM7 and CDC6 are the two major components of the pre-replication
15   complex. As EVC blueberry juice blend inhibited the proliferation in the treated cells,
     studies were undertaken to determine whether MCM7 and CDC6 levels, and thus cell
     division cycle 6, were affected by EVC blueberry juice blend treatment.
             As shown in Figure 59, the protein levels of MCM7 and CDC6 in LNCaP and PC
     3 cells were reduced by EVC blueberry juice blend treatment.           Specifically, in both
20   LNCaP and PC-3 cells, 0.2 or 0.4 % EVC blueberry juice blend caused a decrease in the
     MCM7 and CDC6 levels. A further decrease at 0.8 % EVC blueberry juice blend, was
     noted for the CDC6 levels in LNCaP cells. This finding overall was consistent with the
     observation that EVC Blueberry juice blend restrains DNA synthesis in prostate cancer
     cells.
25           Figure 59(A) shows immunoblots of Exponentially             growing lymph node
     metastasised prostate cancer cells (LNCaP) and bone metastasised androgen receptor
     negative prostate cells (PC-3) cells treated with 0 % EVC blueberry juice blend as control
     (CONTROL) or with the indicated concentrations of EVC blueberry juice blend for 72
     hours and then analysed for MCM7 and cell division cycle 6 (CDC6) with immunoblot.

   WO 2014/071438                                                         PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                   136
             Figure 59(B) is a graphical representation of immuno-labelled proteins as
     quantified by densitometry, with each protein of interest being normalised by a loading,
     control. The resulting ratio of each EVC blueberry juice blend concentration was then
     calibrated by the control (0 % EVC blueberry juice blend) that was arbitrarily set to be 1.
 5   Values are means, with standard deviations represented by vertical bars of three
     independent experiments.
             It is clear from the foregoing that the invention provides modified polyphenol
     compounds and compositions comprising the modified polyphenol compounds that
     address a range of health issues.
10           The foregoing embodiments are illustrative only of the principles of the invention,
     and various modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art. The
     invention is capable of being practiced and carried out in various ways and in other
     embodiments. It is also to be understood that the terminology employed herein is for the
     purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.
15           The term "comprise"       and variants of the term such as "comprises"           or
     "comprising" are used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers
     but not to exclude any other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage
     an exclusive interpretation of the term is required.

   WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                                  137
     REFERENCES
     Bendele AM, 'Animal models of rheumatoid arthritis', J Musculos'kel Neuron Interact,
     2001; 1(4):377-385
     British Pharmacopoeia. Commission,         'British pharmacopoeia',     London,  England:
 5   Stationery Office (2012)
     Calixto JB, Otuki MF and Santos ARS, 'Anti-inflammatory compounds of plant origin.
     Part I. Actionson arachidonic acid pathway, nitric oxide and nuclear factor icB (NF-KB)',
     Planta Med. 2003; 69(1i):973-983
     Gilmore TD and Herscovitch M, 'Inhibitors of NF-icB signaling:          785 and counting',
10   Oncogene, 2006; 25:6887-6899
     de Grey ADNJ, 'Life          Span Extension Research and Public Debate:           Societal
     Considerations', Studies in Ethics, Law, and Technology, 2007; 1(1), doi:10.2202/1941
     6008.1011
     Hiscott J, Kwon H and Genin P, 'Hostile takeovers: viral appropriation of the NF-KB
15   pathway', J. Clin. Invest., 2001; 107(2):143-151, doi:10.1172/JC11918
     Miller SC, Huang R, Sakamuru S, Shukla SJ, Attene-Ramos MS, Shinn P, Van Leer D,
     Leister W, Austin CP and Xia M, 'Identification of known drugs that act as inhibitors of
     NF-KB signaling and their mechanism of action', Biochem. Pharmacol. 2010; 79(9):1272
     1280
20   Panchal SK, Ward L and Brown L, 'Ellagic acid attenuates high-carbohydrate, high-fat
     diet-induced metabolic syndrome in rats', Eur. J. Nutr., DOI: 10.1007/s00394-012-0358-9,
     published online 27 April 2012
     Quideau S., 'Chemistry and Biology of Ellagitannins:          An Underestimated Class of
     Bioactive Plant Polyphenols', World Scientific, 2009
25   Roman-Blas JA and Jimenez SA, 'NF-KB as a potential therapeutic target in osteoarthritis
     and rheumatoid arthritis', Osteoarthritis Cartilage, 2006; 14(9):839-848
     Rowe RC, Sheskey PJ, Quinn ME (Ed.), 'Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients', 6 '
     Ed., London: Pharmaceutical Press (2009).

 WO 2014/071438                                                          PCT/AU2012/001380
                                              138
   Sweetman S (Ed.), 'Martindale: The complete drug reference', 37h Ed., London:
   Pharmaceutical Press (2011)
   United States Pharmacopeia (USP) and National Formulary (NF), Rockville, MD: United
   States Pharmacopeia Convention
5  http://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/bhcv2/bhcarticles.nsf/pages/Arthritis

       EDITORIAL NOTE
          <removed-apn>
There are 4 pages in claims only.

CLAIMS
1.       A composition comprising at least one modified polyphenolic compound wherein the
modification comprises nucleophilic substitution of at least one ethoxy moiety to a
polyphenolic compound.
2.        The composition of claim 1, wherein the at least one modified polyphenolic compound
is a modified ellagitannin.
3.        The composition of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the composition is a composition
 selected from the group consisting of a pharmaceutical composition, a dietary supplement, and
 a food product.
 4.       The composition of claim 3, wherein the composition is a pharmaceutical composition.
 5.       The composition ofclaim 3, wherein the composition is a dietary supplement.
 6.       The composition of claim 3, wherein the composition is a food product.
 7.       The composition of claim 6, wherein the food product is ground coffee.
  8.      The composition of claim 6, wherein the food product is black tea leaves.
  9.      The composition of claim 6, wherein the food product is green tea leaves.
  10.      The composition of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein said at least one modified
  polyphenolic compound is present in an amount of at least 0.5 % (w/w).
  11.      The composition of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein said composition comprises at
  least three modified polyphenolic compounds.
  12.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one modified polyphenolic
  compound, wherein the modification comprises nucleophilic substitution of at least one ethoxy
  moiety to a polyphenolic compound, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or
  diluent.
   13.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 12, wherein the at least one modified
  polyphenolic compound is a modified ellagitannin.
   14.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 12 or claim 13, wherein said at least one
  modified polyphenolic compound is present in an amount of at least about 0.5 % (w/w).

15.      The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 12 to 14, wherein said
composition comprises at least three modified polyphenolic compounds.
16.      The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 12 to 15, wherein the composition
is for oral or topical administration.
17.      The pharmaceutical composition of claim 16, wherein the composition is for oral
administration, and is in the form of a tablet, capsule, powder or liquid.
 18.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 16, wherein the composition is for topical
administration, and is in the form of a solution, cream, ointment, lotion or gel.
 19.     A dietary supplement comprising at least one modified polyphenolic compound,
wherein the modification comprises nucleophilic substitution of at least one ethoxy moiety to a
polyphenolic compound.
20.      The dietary supplement of claim 19, wherein the at least one modified polyphenolic
compound is a modified ellagitannin.
21.      The dietary supplement of claim 19 or claim 20, wherein said at least one modified
polyphenolic compound is present in an amount of at least about 0.5 % (w/w).
22.      The dietary supplement of any one of claims 19 to 21, in the form of a tablet, a
chewable tablet, a capsule or a powder.
 23.     A food product comprising at least one modified polyphenolic compound, wherein the
modification comprises nucleophilic substitution of at least one ethoxy moiety to a
polyphenolic compound..
24.      The food product of claim 23, wherein the at least one modified polyphenolic compound
is a modified ellagitannin.
25.      The food product of claim 23 or claim 24, wherein said at least one modified
polyphenolic compound is present in an amount of at least 0.5 % (w/w).
26.      The food product of any one of claims 23 to 25, wherein said food product is selected
from the group consisting of health bars, confectionary and baked goods.
 27.     A method of manufacturing a food product comprising the step of:

        combining a modified polyphenolic compound, wherein the modification comprises
        nucleophilic substitution of at least one ethoxy moiety to a polyphenolic compound,
        with food, to thereby form the food product.
28.     The method of claim 27, wherein the at least one modified polyphenolic compound is a
modified ellagitannin.
29.     The method of claim 27 or claim 28, wherein said food product is selected from the
group consisting of beverages, health bars, confectionary and baked goods.
30.      The method of claim 29, wherein the food product is a beverage selected from the group
consisting of coffee, black tea and green tea.
31.      The method of claim 30 wherein said combining comprises the steps of:
         (i)    addition of a solution comprising the modified polyphenolic compound to
                ground coffee, black tea leaves or green tea leaves to form a slurry;
         (ii)   mixing the slurry for a period of 2 to 3 days; and
         (iii)  drying the slurry.
 32.     A method of manufacturing a modified food product, the method comprising the steps
 of:
         (i)    combining a modified polyphenolic compound, wherein the modification
                comprises nucleophilic substitution of at least one ethoxy moiety to a
                polyphenolic compound, with food such that the food is saturated with the
                modified polyphenolic compound; and
         (ii)   drying the combined modified polyphenolic compound and food so as to form a
                modified food product.
 33.     The method of claim 32, wherein the at least one modified polyphenolic compound is a
 modified ellagitannin.
 34.     A method of treating or preventing a medical condition in a mammalian subject, the
 method comprising the step of administering to the mammalian subject a therapeutically
 effective amount of a composition of any one of claims I to 11, a pharmaceutical composition
 of any one of claims 12 to 18, a dietary supplement of any one of claims 19 to 22, or a food
 product of any one of claims 23 to 26.

   35.     The method of claim 34, wherein said medical condition is selected
                                                                                    from the group
  consisting of aging-related conditions, cancers including metastatic
                                                                           cancers, heart disease,
  metabolic syndrome, chronic inflammation, acute inflammation, gout, chronic
                                                                                   fatigue, obesity,
  erectile dysfunction, appetite suppression, sleep disorders,
                                                                 urinary tract infections, asthma,
  enlarged prostate, excessive alcohol consumption, male pattern baldness
                                                                           and arthritis.
  36.      The method of claim 35, wherein said medical condition is selected from
                                                                                          the group
  consisting of cancers including metastatic cancers, metabolic syndrome,
                                                                            chronic inflammation,
  acute inflammation, erectile dysfunction and arthritis.
 37.      The method of claim 36, wherein said medical condition is metabolic syndrome.
 38.      Use of a modified polyphenolic compound wherein the modification
                                                                                          comprises
 nucleophilic substitution of at least one ethoxy moiety to a polyphenolic
                                                                                compound in the
 manufacture of a medicament for the prevention or treatment of a medical
                                                                                     condition in a
 mammalian subject,
 39.      The use of claim 38, wherein the at least one modified polyphenolic compound
                                                                                                 is a
 modified ellagitannin,
 40.      The use of claim 38 or claim 39, wherein said medical condition is selected
                                                                                           from the
 group consisting of aging-related conditions, cancers including metastatic
                                                                                     cancers, heart
 disease, metabolic syndrome, chronic inflammation, acute inflammation,
                                                                            gout, chronic fatigue,
 obesity, erectile dysfunction, appetite suppression, sleep
                                                              disorders, urinary tract infections,
asthma, enlarged prostate, excessive alcohol consumption, male pattern baldness
                                                                                    and arthritis.
41.      The use of claim 40, wherein said medical condition is selected
                                                                                 from the group
consisting of cancers including metastatic cancers, metabolic syndrome,
                                                                           chronic inflammation,
acute inflammation, erectile dysfunction and arthritis.
42.      The use of claim 41, wherein said medical condition is metabolic syndrome.

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012394377, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

