1002205807
ABSTRACT
An electronic device with a display, touch-sensitive surface and one or more sensors to detect
intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface displays a first user interface object and
detects first movement of the contact that corresponds to movement of a focus selector
toward the first user interface object. In response to detecting the first movement, the device
moves the focus selector to the first user interface object; and determines an intensity of the
contact. After detecting the first movement, the device detects second movement of the
contact. In response to detecting the second movement of the contact, when the contact meets
selection criteria based on an intensity of the contact, the device moves the focus selector and
the first user interface object; and when the contact does not meet the selection criteria, the
device moves the focus selector without moving the first user interface object.

  WO 2013/169877                                                          PCT/US2013/040101
 Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Selecting User
                                    Interface Objects
                                 RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]         This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial
No. 61/778,413, filed on March 13, 2013, entitled "Device, Method, and Graphical User
Interface for Selecting User Interface Objects;" U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
61/747,278, filed December 29, 2012, entitled "Device, Method, and Graphical User
Interface for Manipulating User Interface Objects with Visual and/or Haptic Feedback;" and
U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/688,227, filed May 9, 2012, entitled "Device,
Method, and Graphical User Interface for Manipulating User Interface Objects with Visual
and/or Haptic Feedback," which applications are incorporated by reference herein in their
entirety.
[0002]         This application is also related to the following: U.S. Provisional Patent
Application Serial No. 61/778,092, filed on March 12, 2013, entitled "Device, Method, and
Graphical User Interface for Selecting Object within a Group of Objects;" U.S. Provisional
Patent Application Serial No. 61/778,125, filed on March 12, 2013, entitled "Device,
Method, and Graphical User Interface for Navigating User Interface Hierarchies;" U.S.
Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/778,156, filed on March 12, 2013, entitled
"Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Manipulating Framed Graphical Objects;"
U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/778,179, filed on March 12, 2013, entitled
"Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Scrolling Nested Regions;" U.S.
Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/778,171, filed on March 12, 2013, entitled
"Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Displaying Additional Information in
Response to a User Contact;" U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/778,191,
filed on March 12, 2013, entitled "Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for
Displaying User Interface Objects Corresponding to an Application;" U.S. Provisional Patent
Application Serial No. 61/778,211, filed on March 12, 2013, entitled "Device, Method, and
Graphical User Interface for Facilitating User Interaction with Controls in a User Interface;"
U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/778,239, filed on March 12, 2013, entitled
"Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Forgoing Generation of Tactile Output
for a Multi-Contact Gesture;" U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/778,284,
                                                   1

1002205807
filed on March 12, 2013, entitled "Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for
Providing Tactile Feedback for Operations Performed in a User Interface;" U.S. Provisional
Patent Application Serial No. 61/778,287, filed on March 12, 2013, entitled "Device, Method,
and Graphical User Interface for Providing Feedback for Changing Activation States of a
User Interface Object;" U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/778,363, filed on
March 12, 2013, entitled "Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Transitioning
between Touch Input to Display Output Relationships;" U.S. Provisional Patent Application
Serial No. 61/778,367, filed on March 12, 2013, entitled "Device, Method, and Graphical
User Interface for Moving a User Interface Object Based on an Intensity of a Press Input;"
U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/778,265, filed on March 12, 2013, entitled
"Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Transitioning between Display States in
Response to a Gesture;" U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/778,373, filed on
March 12, 2013, entitled "Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Managing
Activation of a Control Based on Contact Intensity;" U.S. Provisional Patent Application
Serial No. 61/778,412, filed on March 13, 2013, entitled "Device, Method, and Graphical
User Interface for Displaying Content Associated with a Corresponding Affordance;" U.S.
Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/778,414, filed on March 13, 2013, entitled
"Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Moving and Dropping a User Interface
Object;" U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/778,416, filed on March 13, 2013,
entitled "Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Determining Whether to Scroll or
Select Content;" and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/778,418, filed on
March 13, 2013, entitled "Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Switching
between User Interfaces," which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
[0003] This application is also related to the following: U.S. Provisional Patent Application
Serial No. 61/645,033, filed on May 9, 2012, entitled "Adaptive Haptic Feedback for
Electronic Devices;" U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/665,603, filed on June
28, 2012, entitled "Adaptive Haptic Feedback for Electronic Devices;" and U.S. Provisional
Patent Application Serial No. 61/681,098, filed on August 8, 2012, entitled "Adaptive Haptic
Feedback for Electronic Devices," which are incorporated herein by reference in their
entirety.
[0003A] Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2013/040101
(published as WO 2013/169877), filed on 8 May 2013. This application is also a divisional
application of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, filed on 27 June 2016.
                                                   2

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
[0004]           This relates generally to electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces,
including but not limited to electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces that detect inputs
for manipulating user interfaces.
                                         BACKGROUND
[0005]           The use of touch-sensitive surfaces as input devices for computers and other
electronic computing devices has increased significantly in recent years. Exemplary touch
sensitive surfaces include touch pads and touch screen displays. Such surfaces are widely
used to manipulate user interface objects on a display.
[0006]           Exemplary manipulations include adjusting the position and/or size of one or
more user interface objects or activating buttons or opening files/applications represented by
user interface objects, as well as associating metadata with one or more user interface objects
or otherwise manipulating user interfaces. Exemplary user interface objects include digital
images, video, text, icons, control elements such as buttons and other graphics. A user will, in
some circumstances, need to perform such manipulations on user interface objects in a file
management program (e.g., Finder from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California), an image
management application (e.g., Aperture or iPhoto from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California),
a digital content (e.g., videos and music) management application (e.g., iTunes from Apple
Inc. of Cupertino, California), a drawing application, a presentation application (e.g., Keynote
from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California), a word processing application (e.g., Pages from
Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California), a website creation application (e.g., iWeb from Apple
Inc. of Cupertino, California), a disk authoring application (e.g., iDVD from Apple Inc. of
Cupertino, California), or a spreadsheet application (e.g., Numbers from Apple Inc. of
Cupertino, California).
[00071           But existing methods for performing these manipulations are cumbersome and
inefficient. In addition, existing methods take longer than necessary, thereby wasting energy.
This latter consideration is particularly important in battery-operated devices.
                                            SUMMARY
[0008]           Accordingly, there is a need for electronic devices with faster, more efficient
methods and interfaces for manipulating user interfaces. Such methods and interfaces
optionally complement or replace conventional methods for manipulating user interfaces.
                                                    3

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
Such methods and interfaces reduce the cognitive burden on a user and produce a more
efficient human-machine interface. For battery-operated devices, such methods and interfaces
conserve power and increase the time between battery charges.
[0009]          The above deficiencies and other problems associated with user interfaces for
electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces are reduced or eliminated by the disclosed
devices. In some embodiments, the device is a desktop computer. In some embodiments, the
device is portable (e.g., a notebook computer, tablet computer, or handheld device). In some
embodiments, the device has a touchpad. In some embodiments, the device has a touch
sensitive display (also known as a "touch screen" or "touch screen display"). In some
embodiments, the device has a graphical user interface (GUI), one or more processors,
memory and one or more modules, programs or sets of instructions stored in the memory for
performing multiple functions. In some embodiments, the user interacts with the GUI
primarily through finger contacts and gestures on the touch-sensitive surface. In some
embodiments, the functions optionally include image editing, drawing, presenting, word
processing, website creating, disk authoring, spreadsheet making, game playing, telephoning,
video conferencing, e-mailing, instant messaging, workout support, digital photographing,
digital videoing, web browsing, digital music playing, and/or digital video playing.
Executable instructions for performing these functions are, optionally, included in a non
transitory computer readable storage medium or other computer program product configured
for execution by one or more processors.
[0010]          There is a need for electronic devices with faster, more efficient methods and
interfaces for determining whether to select a user interface object or forgo selecting the user
interface object. Such methods and interfaces may complement or replace conventional
methods for selecting user interface objects. Such methods and interfaces reduce the
cognitive burden on a user and produce a more efficient human-machine interface. For
battery-operated devices, such methods and interfaces conserve power and increase the time
between battery charges.
[0011]          In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface and one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. The method includes displaying a first user
interface object at a first location on the display, detecting a contact with the touch-sensitive
surface, and detecting first movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to movement of a focus selector toward the first location. The method further
                                                    4

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
includes, in response to detecting the first movement of the contact, moving the focus selector
from a location remote from the first user interface object to the first location, and
determining an intensity of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface while the focus selector
is at the first location. The method also includes, after detecting the first movement of the
contact, detecting second movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to movement of the focus selector away from the first location. The method
further includes, in response to detecting the second movement of the contact, in accordance
with a determination that the contact meets selection criteria for the first user interface object,
where the selection criteria for the first user interface object include that the contact meets a
predefined intensity threshold while the focus selector is at the first location, moving the
focus selector and the first user interface object away from the first location in accordance
with the second movement of the contact; and in accordance with a determination that the
contact does not meet the selection criteria for the first user interface object, moving the focus
selector in accordance with the second movement of the contact without moving the first user
interface object.
[0012]            In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured to display a first user interface object at a first location on the display unit, a
touch-sensitive surface unit configured to detect a contact, one or more sensor units
configured to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit, and a
processing unit coupled to the display unit, the one or more sensor units and the touch
sensitive surface unit. The processing unit is configured to: detect first movement of the
contact across the touch-sensitive surface unit that corresponds to movement of a focus
selector toward the first location. In response to detecting the first movement of the contact,
the processing unit is configured to: move the focus selector from a location remote from the
first user interface object to the first location, and determine an intensity of the contact on the
touch-sensitive surface unit while the focus selector is at the first location. The processing
unit is further configured to, after detecting the first movement of the contact, detect second
movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface unit that corresponds to
movement of the focus selector away from the first location. The processing unit is also
configured to, in response to detecting the second movement of the contact, in accordance
with a determination that the contact meets selection criteria for the first user interface object,
where the selection criteria for the first user interface object include that the contact meets a
predefined intensity threshold while the focus selector is at the first location, move the focus
                                                     5

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
selector and the first user interface object away from the first location in accordance with the
second movement of the contact; and, in accordance with a determination that the contact
does not meet the selection criteria for the first user interface object, move the focus selector
in accordance with the second movement of the contact without moving the first user
interface object.
[00131          Thus, electronic devices with displays, touch-sensitive surfaces and one or
more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface are provided with
faster, more efficient methods and interfaces for determining whether to select a user
interface object or forgo selecting the user interface object, thereby increasing the
effectiveness, efficiency, and user satisfaction with such devices. Such methods and
interfaces may complement or replace conventional methods for selecting user interface
objects.
[0014]          There is a need for electronic devices with faster, more efficient methods and
interfaces for selecting user interface objects. Such methods and interfaces may complement
or replace conventional methods for selecting user interface objects. Such methods and
interfaces reduce the cognitive burden on a user and produce a more efficient human-machine
interface. For battery-operated devices, such methods and interfaces conserve power and
increase the time between battery charges.
[00151          In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface and one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. The method includes displaying, on the display, a
plurality of user interface objects, including a first user interface object and a second user
interface object. The method further includes detecting a first press input that corresponds to
an increase in intensity of a contact above a first intensity threshold on the touch-sensitive
surface while a focus selector is over the first user interface object. The method further
includes, in response to detecting the first press input, the method includes selecting the first
user interface object, and after selecting the first user interface object, detecting a second
press input that corresponds to an increase in intensity of a contact above a second intensity
threshold on the touch-sensitive surface while the focus selector is over the second user
interface object. The method also includes, in response to detecting the second press input,
selecting the second user interface object and maintaining selection of the first user interface
object.
                                                    6

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
[00161          In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured to display a plurality of user interface objects, including a first user interface
object and a second user interface object; a touch-sensitive surface unit configured to detect a
gesture that includes a press input from a contact; one or more sensor units configured to
detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit; and a processing unit
coupled to the display unit, the touch-sensitive surface unit, and the one or more sensor units.
The processing unit is configured to detect a first press input that corresponds to an increase
in intensity of a contact above a first intensity threshold on the touch-sensitive surface unit
while a focus selector is over the first user interface object. In response to detecting the first
press input, the processing unit is configured to select the first user interface object and, after
selecting the first user interface object, detect a second press input that corresponds to an
increase in intensity of a contact above a second intensity threshold on the touch-sensitive
surface unit while the focus selector is over the second user interface object. In response to
detecting the second press input, the processing unit is configured to select the second user
interface object and maintain selection of the first user interface object.
[00171          Thus, electronic devices with displays, touch-sensitive surfaces and one or
more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface are provided with
faster, more efficient methods and interfaces for selecting user interface objects, thereby
increasing the effectiveness, efficiency, and user satisfaction with such devices. Such
methods and interfaces may complement or replace conventional methods for selecting user
interface objects.
[00181          There is a need for electronic devices with faster, more efficient methods and
interfaces for typing characters on a virtual keyboard while detecting a continuous contact on
a touch-sensitive surface. Such methods and interfaces may complement or replace
conventional methods for typing characters on a virtual keyboard. Such methods and
interfaces reduce the cognitive burden on a user and produce a more efficient human-machine
interface. For battery-operated devices, such methods and interfaces conserve power and
increase the time between battery charges.
[0019]          In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface and one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. The method includes: displaying a virtual keyboard
on the display and detecting a contact on the touch-sensitive surface. The method further
includes, while continuously detecting the contact on the touch-sensitive surface, detecting
                                                    7

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
one or more movements of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface that correspond to
movement of a focus selector over the virtual keyboard. The method further includes, for
each respective key of a plurality of keys of the virtual keyboard, while detecting the focus
selector over a respective key of the plurality of keys, in accordance with a determination that
character-output criteria for outputting a character that corresponds to the respective key have
been met, where the character-output criteria include that a respective intensity of the contact
is above a first intensity threshold while detecting the focus selector over the respective key,
outputting the character. The method further includes, in accordance with a determination
that the character-output criteria have not been met, forgoing outputting the character that
corresponds to the respective key.
[0020]          In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured a display a virtual keyboard, a touch-sensitive surface unit configured to a
contact, one or more sensor units to detect intensity of contacts on the touch sensitive surface
unit and a processing unit coupled to the display unit and the touch-sensitive surface unit. The
processing unit is configured to, while continuously detecting the contact on the touch
sensitive surface unit: detect one or more movements of the contact on the touch-sensitive
surface unit that correspond to movement of a focus selector over the virtual keyboard; and
for each respective key of a plurality of keys of the virtual keyboard, while detecting the
focus selector over a respective key of the plurality of keys: in accordance with a
determination that character-output criteria for outputting a character that corresponds to the
respective key have been met, wherein the character-output criteria include that a respective
intensity of the contact is above a first intensity threshold while detecting the focus selector
over the respective key, output the character; and in accordance with a determination that the
character-output criteria have not been met, forgo outputting the character that corresponds to
the respective key.
[0021]          Thus, electronic devices with displays, touch-sensitive surfaces and one or
more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface are provided with
faster, more efficient methods and interfaces for typing characters on a virtual keyboard,
thereby increasing the effectiveness, efficiency, and user satisfaction with such devices. Such
methods and interfaces may complement or replace conventional methods for typing
characters on a virtual keyboard.
[0022]          In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a
display, a touch-sensitive surface, optionally one or more sensors to detect intensity of
                                                    8

  WO 2013/169877                                                          PCT/US2013/040101
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface, one or more processors, memory, and one or more
programs; the one or more programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed
by the one or more processors and the one or more programs include instructions for
performing the operations of any of the methods referred to in paragraph [0043]. In
accordance with some embodiments, a graphical user interface on an electronic device with a
display, a touch-sensitive surface, optionally one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface, a memory, and one or more processors to execute
one or more programs stored in the memory includes one or more of the elements displayed
in any of the methods referred to in paragraph [0043], which are updated in response to
inputs, as described in any of the methods referred to in paragraph [0043]. In accordance with
some embodiments, a computer readable storage medium has stored therein instructions
which when executed by an electronic device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and
optionally one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface,
cause the device to perform the operations of any of the methods referred to in paragraph
[0043]. In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes: a display, a
touch-sensitive surface, and optionally one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts
with the touch-sensitive surface; and means for performing the operations of any of the
methods referred to in paragraph [0043]. In accordance with some embodiments, an
information processing apparatus, for use in an electronic device with a display and a touch
sensitive surface, optionally one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the
touch-sensitive surface, includes means for performing the operations of any of the methods
referred to in paragraph [0043].
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00231          For a better understanding of the various described embodiments, reference
should be made to the Description of Embodiments below, in conjunction with the following
drawings in which like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the
figures.
[0024]          Figure 1A is a block diagram illustrating a portable multifunction device with
a touch-sensitive display in accordance with some embodiments.
[00251          Figure 1B is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components for event
handling in accordance with some embodiments.
                                                  9

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
[00261          Figure 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device having a touch screen in
accordance with some embodiments.
[00271          Figure 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary multifunction device with a
display and a touch-sensitive surface in accordance with some embodiments.
[0028]          Figure 4A illustrates an exemplary user interface for a menu of applications on
a portable multifunction device in accordance with some embodiments.
[0029]          Figure 4B illustrates an exemplary user interface for a multifunction device
with a touch-sensitive surface that is separate from the display in accordance with some
embodiments.
[0030]          Figures 5A-5AA illustrate exemplary user interfaces for determining whether
to select a user interface object or forgo selecting a user interface object in accordance with
some embodiments.
[0031]          Figures 6A-6E are flow diagrams illustrating a method of determining whether
to select a user interface object or forgo selecting a user interface object in accordance with
some embodiments.
[0032]          Figure 7 is a functional block diagram of an electronic device in accordance
with some embodiments.
[0033]          Figures 8A-8DD illustrate exemplary user interfaces for selecting user
interface objects in accordance with some embodiments.
[0034]          Figures 9A-9E are flow diagrams illustrating a method of selecting user
interface objects in accordance with some embodiments.
[00351          Figure 10 is a functional block diagram of an electronic device in accordance
with some embodiments.
[0036]          Figures 11 A-IlT illustrate exemplary user interfaces for typing characters on
a virtual keyboard in accordance with some embodiments.
[00371          Figures 12A-12D are flow diagrams illustrating a method of typing characters
on a virtual keyboard in accordance with some embodiments.
[0038]          Figure 13 is a functional block diagram of an electronic device in accordance
with some embodiments.
                                                   10

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
                              DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[00391          The methods, devices and GUIs described herein provide visual and/or haptic
feedback that makes manipulation of user interface objects more efficient and intuitive for a
user. For example, in a system where the clicking action of a trackpad is decoupled from the
contact intensity (e.g., contact force, contact pressure, or a substitute therefore) that is needed
to reach an activation threshold, the device can generate different tactile outputs (e.g.,
"different clicks") for different activation events (e.g., so that clicks that accomplish a
particular result are differentiated from clicks that do not produce any result or that
accomplish a different result from the particular result). Additionally, tactile outputs can be
generated in response to other events that are not related to increasing intensity of a contact,
such as generating a tactile output (e.g., a "detent") when a user interface object is moved to a
particular position, boundary or orientation, or when an event occurs at the device.
[0040]          Additionally, in a system where a trackpad or touch-screen display is sensitive
to a range of contact intensity that includes more than one or two specific intensity values
(e.g., more than a simple on/off, binary intensity determination), the user interface can
provide responses (e.g., visual or tactile cues) that are indicative of the intensity of the contact
within the range. In some implementations, a pre-activation-threshold response and/or a post
activation-threshold response to an input are displayed as continuous animations. As one
example of such a response, a preview of an operation is displayed in response to detecting
an increase in contact intensity that is still below an activation threshold for performing the
operation. As another example of such a response, an animation associated with an operation
continues even after the activation threshold for the operation has been reached. Both of these
examples provide a user with a continuous response to the force or pressure of a user's
contact, which provides a user with visual and/or haptic feedback that is richer and more
intuitive. More specifically, such continuous force responses give the user the experience of
being able to press lightly to preview an operation and/or press deeply to push "past" or
"through" a predefined user interface state corresponding to the operation.
[0041]          Additionally, for a device with a touch-sensitive surface that is sensitive to a
range of contact intensity, multiple contact intensity thresholds can be monitored by the
device and different functions can be mapped to different contact intensity thresholds. This
serves to increase the available "gesture space" providing easy access to advanced features
for users who know that increasing the intensity of a contact at or beyond a second "deep
press" intensity threshold will cause the device to perform a different operation from an
                                                    11

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
operation that would be performed if the intensity of the contact is between a first
"activation" intensity threshold and the second "deep press" intensity threshold. An
advantage of assigning additional functionality to a second "deep press" intensity threshold
while maintaining familiar functionality at a first "activation" intensity threshold is that
inexperienced users who are, in some circumstances, confused by the additional functionality
can use the familiar functionality by just applying an intensity up to the first "activation"
intensity threshold, whereas more experienced users can take advantage of the additional
functionality by applying an intensity at the second "deep press" intensity threshold.
[0042]           Additionally, for a device with a touch-sensitive surface that is sensitive to a
range of contact intensity, the device can provide additional functionality by allowing users to
perform complex operations with a single continuous contact. For example, when selecting a
group of objects, a user can move a continuous contact around the touch-sensitive surface and
can press while dragging (e.g., applying an intensity greater than a "deep press" intensity
threshold) to add additional elements to a selection. In this way, a user can intuitively interact
with a user interface where pressing harder with a contact causes objects in the user interface
to be "stickier."
[0043]           A number of different approaches to providing an intuitive user interface on a
device where a clicking action is decoupled from the force that is needed to reach an
activation threshold and/or the device is sensitive to a wide range of contact intensities are
described below. Using one or more of these approaches (optionally in conjunction with each
other) helps to provide a user interface that intuitively provides users with additional
information and functionality, thereby reducing the user's cognitive burden and improving
the human-machine interface. Such improvements in the human-machine interface enable
users to use the device faster and more efficiently. For battery-operated devices, these
improvements conserve power and increase the time between battery charges. For ease of
explanation, systems, methods and user interfaces for including illustrative examples of some
of these approaches are described below, as follows:
.       Many electronic devices have graphical user interfaces that display user interface
        objects such as thumbnails, icons, folders, and thumb/handles in scrubbers and slider
        bar. Often, a user of an electronic device will want to select and move user interface
        objects on a display. However, selecting user interface objects sometimes includes
        multiple steps performed by a user that can be confusing and time consuming for a
        user. The embodiments described below provide an effective, efficient method of
                                                   12

  WO 2013/169877                                                         PCT/US2013/040101
       determining whether or not to select a user interface object, based on an intensity of a
       contact with a touch-sensitive surface. , Figures 5A-5AA illustrate exemplary user
      interfaces for determining whether to select a user interface object or forgo selecting a
      user interface object in accordance with some embodiments. The user interfaces in
      Figures 5A-5AA are used to illustrate the processes in Figures 6A-6E.
      Many electronic devices have graphical user interfaces that display user interface
      objects such as thumbnails, icons, folders, and thumb/handles in scrubbers and slider
      bar on a display. Often, a user of an electronic device will want to select and move
      user interface objects on the display. However, selecting user interface objects
       sometimes includes multiple steps performed by a user that can be confusing and time
       consuming for a user. The embodiments described below provide an efficient,
      intuitive method, implemented on an electronic device with a touch-sensitive surface,
       for determining whether to select a user interface object, or forgo selecting a user
      interface object, based on an intensity of a contact with the touch-sensitive surface.
      Below, Figures 8A-8DD illustrate exemplary user interfaces for selecting user
      interface objects. Figures 9A-9E are flow diagrams illustrating a method of selecting
      user interface objects. The user interfaces in Figures 8A-8DD are used to illustrate the
      processes in Figures 9A-9E.
.     Many electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces, such as portable multifunction
       devices with touch screen displays, have graphical user interfaces with displayed
      virtual keyboards for typing characters for output in, for example, e-mail messages,
      notepad applications, search fields.. Some methods for entering a character or a
       sequence of characters (e.g., entering an input into the device that corresponds to a
      request to output a character or multiple characters) require separate contacts on a
      touch-sensitive surface for each character entered. However, entering characters with
       a separate contact for each character entered can be inefficient and time consuming
       for a user. In the embodiments described below, a faster and more efficient method
       for accurately typing characters on a virtual keyboard is provided where a sequence of
       characters can be selected with a continuous contact in response to detecting an
      increase in intensity of the contact while the contact is over keys corresponding to the
       characters. In particular, Figures 11 A-1 IT illustrate exemplary user interfaces for
      typing characters on a virtual keyboard. Figures 12A-12D are flow diagrams
                                                  13

  WO 2013/169877                                                              PCT/US2013/040101
         illustrating a method of typing characters on a virtual keyboard. The user interfaces in
         Figures 11 A-1 IT are used to illustrate the processes in Figures 12A-12D.
                                      EXEMPLARY DEVICES
[0044]            Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments, examples of which are
illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description, numerous
specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various
described embodiments. However, it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that
the various described embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other
instances, well-known methods, procedures, components, circuits, and networks have not
been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.
[00451            It will also be understood that, although the terms first, second, etc. are, in
some instances, used herein to describe various elements, these elements should not be
limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another.
For example, a first contact could be termed a second contact, and, similarly, a second
contact could be termed a first contact, without departing from the scope of the various
described embodiments. The first contact and the second contact are both contacts, but they
are not the same contact.
[00461            The terminology used in the description of the various described embodiments
herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be
limiting. As used in the description of the various described embodiments and the appended
claims, the singular forms "a", "an" and "the" are intended to include the plural forms as
well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term
"and/or" as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one
or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms "includes,"
"including," "comprises," and/or "comprising," when used in this specification, specify the
presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do
not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps,
operations, elements, components, and/or groups thereof.
[00471            As used herein, the term "if' is, optionally, construed to mean "when" or
upono"   or "in response to determining" or "in response to detecting," depending on the
context. Similarly, the phrase "if it is determined" or "if [a stated condition or event] is
detected" is, optionally, construed to mean "upon determining" or "in response to
                                                     14

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
determining" or "upon detecting [the stated condition or event]" or "in response to detecting
[the stated condition or event]," depending on the context.
[0048]          Embodiments of electronic devices, user interfaces for such devices, and
associated processes for using such devices are described. In some embodiments, the device
is a portable communications device, such as a mobile telephone, that also contains other
functions, such as PDA and/or music player functions. Exemplary embodiments of portable
multifunction devices include, without limitation, the iPhone@, iPod Touch@, and iPad@
devices from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California. Other portable electronic devices, such as
laptops or tablet computers with touch-sensitive surfaces (e.g., touch screen displays and/or
touch pads), are, optionally, used. It should also be understood that, in some embodiments,
the device is not a portable communications device, but is a desktop computer with a touch
sensitive surface (e.g., a touch screen display and/or a touch pad).
[0049]          In the discussion that follows, an electronic device that includes a display and
a touch-sensitive surface is described. It should be understood, however, that the electronic
device optionally includes one or more other physical user-interface devices, such as a
physical keyboard, a mouse and/or a joystick.
[00501          The device typically supports a variety of applications, such as one or more of
the following: a drawing application, a presentation application, a word processing
application, a website creation application, a disk authoring application, a spreadsheet
application, a gaming application, a telephone application, a video conferencing application,
an e-mail application, an instant messaging application, a workout support application, a
photo management application, a digital camera application, a digital video camera
application, a web browsing application, a digital music player application, and/or a digital
video player application.
[00511          The various applications that are executed on the device optionally use at least
one common physical user-interface device, such as the touch-sensitive surface. One or more
functions of the touch-sensitive surface as well as corresponding information displayed on the
device are, optionally, adjusted and/or varied from one application to the next and/or within a
respective application. In this way, a common physical architecture (such as the touch
sensitive surface) of the device optionally supports the variety of applications with user
interfaces that are intuitive and transparent to the user.
                                                   15

  WO 2013/169877                                                              PCT/US2013/040101
[0052]          Attention is now directed toward embodiments of portable devices with touch
sensitive displays. Figure 1A is a block diagram illustrating portable multifunction device
 100 with touch-sensitive displays 112 in accordance with some embodiments. Touch
sensitive display 112 is sometimes called a "touch screen" for convenience, and is sometimes
known as or called a touch-sensitive display system. Device 100 includes memory 102
(which optionally includes one or more computer readable storage mediums), memory
controller 122, one or more processing units (CPU's) 120, peripherals interface 118, RF
circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, microphone 113, input/output (I/O)
subsystem 106, other input or control devices 116, and external port 124. Device 100
optionally includes one or more optical sensors 164. Device 100 optionally includes one or
more intensity sensors 165 for detecting intensity of contacts on device 100 (e.g., a touch
sensitive surface such as touch-sensitive display system 112 of device 100). Device 100
optionally includes one or more tactile output generators 167 for generating tactile outputs on
device 100 (e.g., generating tactile outputs on a touch-sensitive surface such as touch
sensitive display system 112 of device 100 or touchpad 355 of device 300). These
components optionally communicate over one or more communication buses or signal lines
 103.
[0053]          As used in the specification and claims, the term "intensity" of a contact on a
touch-sensitive surface refers to the force or pressure (force per unit area) of a contact (e.g., a
finger contact) on the touch sensitive surface, or to a substitute (proxy) for the force or
pressure of a contact on the touch sensitive surface. The intensity of a contact has a range of
values that includes at least four distinct values and more typically includes hundreds of
distinct values (e.g., at least 256). Intensity of a contact is, optionally, determined (or
measured) using various approaches and various sensors or combinations of sensors. For
example, one or more force sensors underneath or adjacent to the touch-sensitive surface are,
optionally, used to measure force at various points on the touch-sensitive surface. In some
implementations, force measurements from multiple force sensors are combined (e.g., a
weighted average) to determine an estimated force of a contact. Similarly, a pressure
sensitive tip of a stylus is, optionally, used to determine a pressure of the stylus on the touch
sensitive surface. Alternatively, the size of the contact area detected on the touch-sensitive
surface and/or changes thereto, the capacitance of the touch-sensitive surface proximate to
the contact and/or changes thereto, and/or the resistance of the touch-sensitive surface
proximate to the contact and/or changes thereto are, optionally, used as a substitute for the
                                                     16

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
force or pressure of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface. In some implementations, the
substitute measurements for contact force or pressure are used directly to determine whether
an intensity threshold has been exceeded (e.g., the intensity threshold is described in units
corresponding to the substitute measurements). In some implementations, the substitute
measurements for contact force or pressure are converted to an estimated force or pressure
and the estimated force or pressure is used to determine whether an intensity threshold has
been exceeded (e.g., the intensity threshold is a pressure threshold measured in units of
pressure).
[0054]          As used in the specification and claims, the term "tactile output" refers to
physical displacement of a device relative to a previous position of the device, physical
displacement of a component (e.g., a touch-sensitive surface) of a device relative to another
component (e.g., housing) of the device, or displacement of the component relative to a
center of mass of the device that will be detected by a user with the user's sense of touch. For
example, in situations where the device or the component of the device is in contact with a
surface of a user that is sensitive to touch (e.g., a finger, palm, or other part of a user's hand),
the tactile output generated by the physical displacement will be interpreted by the user as a
tactile sensation corresponding to a perceived change in physical characteristics of the device
or the component of the device. For example, movement of a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a
touch-sensitive display or trackpad) is, optionally, interpreted by the user as a "down click"
or "up click" of a physical actuator button. In some cases, a user will feel a tactile sensation
such as an "down click" or "up click" even when there is no movement of a physical actuator
button associated with the touch-sensitive surface that is physically pressed (e.g., displaced)
by the user's movements. As another example, movement of the touch-sensitive surface is,
optionally, interpreted or sensed by the user as "roughness" of the touch-sensitive surface,
even when there is no change in smoothness of the touch-sensitive surface. While such
interpretations of touch by a user will be subject to the individualized sensory perceptions of
the user, there are many sensory perceptions of touch that are common to a large majority of
users. Thus, when a tactile output is described as corresponding to a particular sensory
perception of a user (e.g., an "up click," a "down click," "roughness"), unless otherwise
stated, the generated tactile output corresponds to physical displacement of the device or a
component thereof that will generate the described sensory perception for a typical (or
average) user.
                                                    17

  WO 2013/169877                                                          PCT/US2013/040101
[00551          It should be appreciated that device 100 is only one example of a portable
multifunction device, and that device 100 optionally has more or fewer components than
shown, optionally combines two or more components, or optionally has a different
configuration or arrangement of the components. The various components shown in Figure
 1A are implemented in hardware, software, or a combination of both hardware and software,
including one or more signal processing and/or application specific integrated circuits.
[0056]          Memory 102 optionally includes high-speed random access memory and
optionally also includes non-volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage
devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid-state memory devices. Access to
memory 102 by other components of device 100, such as CPU 120 and the peripherals
interface 118, is, optionally, controlled by memory controller 122.
[00571          Peripherals interface 118 can be used to couple input and output peripherals of
the device to CPU 120 and memory 102. The one or more processors 120 run or execute
various software programs and/or sets of instructions stored in memory 102 to perform
various functions for device 100 and to process data.
[0058]          In some embodiments, peripherals interface 118, CPU 120, and memory
controller 122 are, optionally, implemented on a single chip, such as chip 104. In some other
embodiments, they are, optionally, implemented on separate chips.
[00591          RF (radio frequency) circuitry 108 receives and sends RF signals, also called
electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 converts electrical signals to/from electromagnetic
signals and communicates with communications networks and other communications devices
via the electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 optionally includes well-known circuitry for
performing these functions, including but not limited to an antenna system, an RF transceiver,
one or more amplifiers, a tuner, one or more oscillators, a digital signal processor, a CODEC
chipset, a subscriber identity module (SIM) card, memory, and so forth. RF circuitry 108
optionally communicates with networks, such as the Internet, also referred to as the World
Wide Web (WWW), an intranet and/or a wireless network, such as a cellular telephone
network, a wireless local area network (LAN) and/or a metropolitan area network (MAN),
and other devices by wireless communication. The wireless communication optionally uses
any of a plurality of communications standards, protocols and technologies, including but not
limited to Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), Enhanced Data GSM
Environment (EDGE), high-speed downlink packet access (HSDPA), high-speed uplink
                                                 18

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
packet access (HSUPA), Evolution, Data-Only (EV-DO), HSPA, HSPA+, Dual-Cell HSPA
(DC-HSPDA), long term evolution (LTE), near field communication (NFC), wideband code
division multiple access (W-CDMA), code division multiple access (CDMA), time division
multiple access (TDMA), Bluetooth, Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi) (e.g., IEEE 802.11 a, IEEE
802.1 1b, IEEE 802.11 g and/or IEEE 802.1 In), voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), Wi
MAX, a protocol for e-mail (e.g., Internet message access protocol (IMAP) and/or post office
protocol (POP)), instant messaging (e.g., extensible messaging and presence protocol
(XMPP), Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging
Extensions (SIMPLE), Instant Messaging and Presence Service (IMPS)), and/or Short
Message Service (SMS), or any other suitable communication protocol, including
communication protocols not yet developed as of the filing date of this document.
[0060]            Audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, and microphone 113 provide an audio
interface between a user and device 100. Audio circuitry 110 receives audio data from
peripherals interface 118, converts the audio data to an electrical signal, and transmits the
electrical signal to speaker 111. Speaker 111 converts the electrical signal to human-audible
sound waves. Audio circuitry 110 also receives electrical signals converted by microphone
 113 from sound waves. Audio circuitry 110 converts the electrical signal to audio data and
transmits the audio data to peripherals interface 118 for processing. Audio data is, optionally,
retrieved from and/or transmitted to memory 102 and/or RF circuitry 108 by peripherals
interface 118. In some embodiments, audio circuitry 110 also includes a headset jack (e.g.,
212, Figure 2). The headset jack provides an interface between audio circuitry 110 and
removable audio input/output peripherals, such as output-only headphones or a headset with
both output (e.g., a headphone for one or both ears) and input (e.g., a microphone).
[0061]            I/O subsystem 106 couples input/output peripherals on device 100, such as
touch screen 112 and other input control devices 116, to peripherals interface 118. I/O
subsystem 106 optionally includes display controller 156, optical sensor controller 158,
intensity sensor controller 159, haptic feedback controller 161 and one or more input
controllers 160 for other input or control devices. The one or more input controllers 160
receive/send electrical signals from/to other input or control devices 116. The other input
control devices 116 optionally include physical buttons (e.g., push buttons, rocker buttons,
etc.), dials, slider switches, joysticks, click wheels, and so forth. In some alternate
embodiments, input controller(s) 160 are, optionally, coupled to any (or none) of the
following: a keyboard, infrared port, USB port, and a pointer device such as a mouse. The
                                                   19

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
one or more buttons (e.g., 208, Figure 2) optionally include an up/down button for volume
control of speaker 111 and/or microphone 113. The one or more buttons optionally include a
push button (e.g., 206, Figure 2).
[0062]          Touch-sensitive display 112 provides an input interface and an output
interface between the device and a user. Display controller 156 receives and/or sends
electrical signals from/to touch screen 112. Touch screen 112 displays visual output to the
user. The visual output optionally includes graphics, text, icons, video, and any combination
thereof (collectively termed "graphics"). In some embodiments, some or all of the visual
output corresponds to user-interface objects.
[0063]          Touch screen 112 has a touch-sensitive surface, sensor or set of sensors that
accepts input from the user based on haptic and/or tactile contact. Touch screen 112 and
display controller 156 (along with any associated modules and/or sets of instructions in
memory 102) detect contact (and any movement or breaking of the contact) on touch screen
 112 and converts the detected contact into interaction with user-interface objects (e.g., one or
more soft keys, icons, web pages or images) that are displayed on touch screen 112. In an
exemplary embodiment, a point of contact between touch screen 112 and the user
corresponds to a finger of the user.
[0064]          Touch screen 112 optionally uses LCD (liquid crystal display) technology,
LPD (light emitting polymer display) technology, or LED (light emitting diode) technology,
although other display technologies are used in other embodiments. Touch screen 112 and
display controller 156 optionally detect contact and any movement or breaking thereof using
any of a plurality of touch sensing technologies now known or later developed, including but
not limited to capacitive, resistive, infrared, and surface acoustic wave technologies, as well
as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of
contact with touch screen 112. In an exemplary embodiment, projected mutual capacitance
sensing technology is used, such as that found in the iPhone@, iPod Touch@, and iPad@ from
Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California.
[00651          Touch screen 112 optionally has a video resolution in excess of 100 dpi. In
some embodiments, the touch screen has a video resolution of approximately 160 dpi. The
user optionally makes contact with touch screen 112 using any suitable object or appendage,
such as a stylus, a finger, and so forth. In some embodiments, the user interface is designed to
work primarily with finger-based contacts and gestures, which can be less precise than stylus
                                                   20

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
based input due to the larger area of contact of a finger on the touch screen. In some
embodiments, the device translates the rough finger-based input into a precise pointer/cursor
position or command for performing the actions desired by the user.
[0066]          In some embodiments, in addition to the touch screen, device 100 optionally
includes a touchpad (not shown) for activating or deactivating particular functions. In some
embodiments, the touchpad is a touch-sensitive area of the device that, unlike the touch
screen, does not display visual output. The touchpad is, optionally, a touch-sensitive surface
that is separate from touch screen 112 or an extension of the touch-sensitive surface formed
by the touch screen.
[00671          Device 100 also includes power system 162 for powering the various
components. Power system 162 optionally includes a power management system, one or
more power sources (e.g., battery, alternating current (AC)), a recharging system, a power
failure detection circuit, a power converter or inverter, a power status indicator (e.g., a light
emitting diode (LED)) and any other components associated with the generation,
management and distribution of power in portable devices.
[0068]          Device 100 optionally also includes one or more optical sensors 164.
Figure 1A shows an optical sensor coupled to optical sensor controller 158 in I/O subsystem
 106. Optical sensor 164 optionally includes charge-coupled device (CCD) or complementary
metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) phototransistors. Optical sensor 164 receives light from
the environment, projected through one or more lens, and converts the light to data
representing an image. In conjunction with imaging module 143 (also called a camera
module), optical sensor 164 optionally captures still images or video. In some embodiments,
an optical sensor is located on the back of device 100, opposite touch screen display 112 on
the front of the device, so that the touch screen display is enabled for use as a viewfinder for
still and/or video image acquisition. In some embodiments, another optical sensor is located
on the front of the device so that the user's image is, optionally, obtained for
videoconferencing while the user views the other video conference participants on the touch
screen display.
[0069]          Device 100 optionally also includes one or more contact intensity sensors 165.
Figure 1A shows a contact intensity sensor coupled to intensity sensor controller 159 in I/O
subsystem 106. Contact intensity sensor 165 optionally includes one or more piezoresistive
strain gauges, capacitive force sensors, electric force sensors, piezoelectric force sensors,
                                                  21

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
optical force sensors, capacitive touch-sensitive surfaces, or other intensity sensors (e.g.,
sensors used to measure the force (or pressure) of a contact on a touch-sensitive surface).
Contact intensity sensor 165 receives contact intensity information (e.g., pressure information
or a proxy for pressure information) from the environment. In some embodiments, at least
one contact intensity sensor is collocated with, or proximate to, a touch-sensitive surface
(e.g., touch-sensitive display system 112). In some embodiments, at least one contact
intensity sensor is located on the back of device 100, opposite touch screen display 112 which
is located on the front of device 100.
[00701           Device 100 optionally also includes one or more proximity sensors 166.
Figure 1A shows proximity sensor 166 coupled to peripherals interface 118. Alternately,
proximity sensor 166 is coupled to input controller 160 in I/O subsystem 106. In some
embodiments, the proximity sensor turns off and disables touch screen 112 when the
multifunction device is placed near the user's ear (e.g., when the user is making a phone call).
[00711           Device 100 optionally also includes one or more tactile output generators 167.
Figure 1A shows a tactile output generator coupled to haptic feedback controller 161 in I/O
subsystem 106. Tactile output generator 167 optionally includes one or more electroacoustic
devices such as speakers or other audio components and/or electromechanical devices that
convert energy into linear motion such as a motor, solenoid, electroactive polymer,
piezoelectric actuator, electrostatic actuator, or other tactile output generating component
(e.g., a component that converts electrical signals into tactile outputs on the device). Contact
intensity sensor 165 receives tactile feedback generation instructions from haptic feedback
module 133 and generates tactile outputs on device 100 that are capable of being sensed by a
user of device 100. In some embodiments, at least one tactile output generator is collocated
with, or proximate to, a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch-sensitive display system 112) and,
optionally, generates a tactile output by moving the touch-sensitive surface vertically (e.g.,
in/out of a surface of device 100) or laterally (e.g., back and forth in the same plane as a
surface of device 100). In some embodiments, at least one tactile output generator sensor is
located on the back of device 100, opposite touch screen display 112 which is located on the
front of device 100.
[0072]           Device 100 optionally also includes one or more accelerometers 168. Figure
 1A shows accelerometer 168 coupled to peripherals interface 118. Alternately, accelerometer
 168 is, optionally, coupled to an input controller 160 in I/O subsystem 106. In some
embodiments, information is displayed on the touch screen display in a portrait view or a
                                                   22

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
landscape view based on an analysis of data received from the one or more accelerometers.
Device 100 optionally includes, in addition to accelerometer(s) 168, a magnetometer (not
shown) and a GPS (or GLONASS or other global navigation system) receiver (not shown) for
obtaining information concerning the location and orientation (e.g., portrait or landscape) of
device 100.
[0073]          In some embodiments, the software components stored in memory 102 include
operating system 126, communication module (or set of instructions) 128, contact/motion
module (or set of instructions) 130, graphics module (or set of instructions) 132, text input
module (or set of instructions) 134, Global Positioning System (GPS) module (or set of
instructions) 135, and applications (or sets of instructions) 136. Furthermore, in some
embodiments memory 102 stores device/global internal state 157, as shown in Figures 1A
and 3. Device/global internal state 157 includes one or more of: active application state,
indicating which applications, if any, are currently active; display state, indicating what
applications, views or other information occupy various regions of touch screen display 112;
sensor state, including information obtained from the device's various sensors and input
control devices 116; and location information concerning the device's location and/or
attitude.
[0074]          Operating system 126 (e.g., Darwin, RTXC, LINUX, UNIX, OS X,
WINDOWS, or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks) includes various software
components and/or drivers for controlling and managing general system tasks (e.g., memory
management, storage device control, power management, etc.) and facilitates communication
between various hardware and software components.
[00751          Communication module 128 facilitates communication with other devices
over one or more external ports 124 and also includes various software components for
handling data received by RF circuitry 108 and/or external port 124. External port 124 (e.g.,
Universal Serial Bus (USB), FIREWIRE, etc.) is adapted for coupling directly to other
devices or indirectly over a network (e.g., the Internet, wireless LAN, etc.). In some
embodiments, the external port is a multi-pin (e.g., 30-pin) connector that is the same as, or
similar to and/or compatible with the 30-pin connector used on iPod (trademark of Apple
Inc.) devices.
[0076]          Contact/motion module 130 optionally detects contact with touch screen 112
(in conjunction with display controller 156) and other touch sensitive devices (e.g., a
                                                  23

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
touchpad or physical click wheel). Contact/motion module 130 includes various software
components for performing various operations related to detection of contact, such as
determining if contact has occurred (e.g., detecting a finger-down event), determining an
intensity of the contact (e.g., the force or pressure of the contact or a substitute for the force
or pressure of the contact) determining if there is movement of the contact and tracking the
movement across the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., detecting one or more finger-dragging
events), and determining if the contact has ceased (e.g., detecting a finger-up event or a break
in contact). Contact/motion module 130 receives contact data from the touch-sensitive
surface. Determining movement of the point of contact, which is represented by a series of
contact data, optionally includes determining speed (magnitude), velocity (magnitude and
direction), and/or an acceleration (a change in magnitude and/or direction) of the point of
contact. These operations are, optionally, applied to single contacts (e.g., one finger contacts)
or to multiple simultaneous contacts (e.g., "multitouch"/multiple finger contacts). In some
embodiments, contact/motion module 130 and display controller 156 detect contact on a
touchpad.
[00771          In some embodiments, contact/motion module 130 uses a set of one or more
intensity thresholds to determine whether an operation has been performed by a user (e.g., to
determine whether a user has "clicked" on an icon). In some embodiments at least a subset of
the intensity thresholds are determined in accordance with software parameters (e.g., the
intensity thresholds are not determined by the activation thresholds of particular physical
actuators and can be adjusted without changing the physical hardware of device 100). For
example, a mouse "click" threshold of a trackpad or touch screen display can be set to any of
a large range of predefined thresholds values without changing the trackpad or touch screen
display hardware. Additionally, in some implementations a user of the device is provided
with software settings for adjusting one or more of the set of intensity thresholds (e.g., by
adjusting individual intensity thresholds and/or by adjusting a plurality of intensity thresholds
at once with a system-level click "intensity" parameter).
[0078]          Contact/motion module 130 optionally detects a gesture input by a user.
Different gestures on the touch-sensitive surface have different contact patterns and
intensities. Thus, a gesture is, optionally, detected by detecting a particular contact pattern.
For example, detecting a finger tap gesture includes detecting a finger-down event followed
by detecting a finger-up (lift off) event at the same position (or substantially the same
position) as the finger-down event (e.g., at the position of an icon). As another example,
                                                   24

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
detecting a finger swipe gesture on the touch-sensitive surface includes detecting a finger
down event followed by detecting one or more finger-dragging events, and subsequently
followed by detecting a finger-up (lift off) event.
[00791           Graphics module 132 includes various known software components for
rendering and displaying graphics on touch screen 112 or other display, including
components for changing the visual impact (e.g., brightness, transparency, saturation, contrast
or other visual property) of graphics that are displayed. As used herein, the term "graphics"
includes any object that can be displayed to a user, including without limitation text, web
pages, icons (such as user-interface objects including soft keys), digital images, videos,
animations and the like.
[0080]          In some embodiments, graphics module 132 stores data representing graphics
to be used. Each graphic is, optionally, assigned a corresponding code. Graphics module 132
receives, from applications etc., one or more codes specifying graphics to be displayed along
with, if necessary, coordinate data and other graphic property data, and then generates screen
image data to output to display controller 156.
[0081]          Haptic feedback module 133 includes various software components for
generating instructions used by tactile output generator(s) 167 to produce tactile outputs at
one or more locations on device 100 in response to user interactions with device 100.
[0082]          Text input module 134, which is, optionally, a component of graphics module
 132, provides soft keyboards for entering text in various applications (e.g., contacts 137,
e-mail 140, IM 141, browser 147, and any other application that needs text input).
[0083]           GPS module 135 determines the location of the device and provides this
information for use in various applications (e.g., to telephone 138 for use in location-based
dialing, to camera 143 as picture/video metadata, and to applications that provide location
based services such as weather widgets, local yellow page widgets, and map/navigation
widgets).
[0084]          Applications 136 optionally include the following modules (or sets of
instructions), or a subset or superset thereof:
     *   contacts module 137 (sometimes called an address book or contact list);
     .  telephone module 138;
     *  video conferencing module 139;
                                                  25

  WO 2013/169877                                                          PCT/US2013/040101
    .   e-mail client module 140;
    .   instant messaging (IM) module 141;
    *   workout support module 142;
    *   camera module 143 for still and/or video images;
    .   image management module 144;
    *   browser module 147;
    *   calendar module 148;
    *   widget modules 149, which optionally include one or more of: weather widget 149-1,
        stocks widget 149-2, calculator widget 149-3, alarm clock widget 149-4, dictionary
        widget 149-5, and other widgets obtained by the user, as well as user-created widgets
         149-6;
    *   widget creator module 150 for making user-created widgets 149-6;
    *   search module 151;
    *   video and music player module 152, which is, optionally, made up of a video player
        module and a music player module;
    .   notes module 153;
    *   map module 154; and/or
    *   online video module 155.
[00851          Examples of other applications 136 that are, optionally, stored in memory 102
include other word processing applications, other image editing applications, drawing
applications, presentation applications, JAVA-enabled applications, encryption, digital rights
management, voice recognition, and voice replication.
[0086]          In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module
 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, contacts module 137 are, optionally,
used to manage an address book or contact list (e.g., stored in application internal state 192 of
contacts module 137 in memory 102 or memory 370), including: adding name(s) to the
address book; deleting name(s) from the address book; associating telephone number(s), e
mail address(es), physical address(es) or other information with a name; associating an image
with a name; categorizing and sorting names; providing telephone numbers or e-mail
                                                 26

  WO 2013/169877                                                          PCT/US2013/040101
addresses to initiate and/or facilitate communications by telephone 138, video conference
 139, e-mail 140, or IM 141; and so forth.
[00871          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
microphone 113, touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module 130, graphics
module 132, and text input module 134, telephone module 138 are, optionally, used to enter a
sequence of characters corresponding to a telephone number, access one or more telephone
numbers in address book 137, modify a telephone number that has been entered, dial a
respective telephone number, conduct a conversation and disconnect or hang up when the
conversation is completed. As noted above, the wireless communication optionally uses any
of a plurality of communications standards, protocols and technologies.
[0088]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
microphone 113, touch screen 112, display controller 156, optical sensor 164, optical sensor
controller 158, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, contact list
 137, and telephone module 138, videoconferencing module 139 includes executable
instructions to initiate, conduct, and terminate a video conference between a user and one or
more other participants in accordance with user instructions.
[0089]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, e-mail client module
 140 includes executable instructions to create, send, receive, and manage e-mail in response
to user instructions. In conjunction with image management module 144, e-mail client
module 140 makes it very easy to create and send e-mails with still or video images taken
with camera module 143.
[0090]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, the instant messaging
module 141 includes executable instructions to enter a sequence of characters corresponding
to an instant message, to modify previously entered characters, to transmit a respective
instant message (for example, using a Short Message Service (SMS) or Multimedia Message
Service (MMS) protocol for telephony-based instant messages or using XMPP, SIMPLE, or
IMPS for Internet-based instant messages), to receive instant messages and to view received
instant messages. In some embodiments, transmitted and/or received instant messages
optionally include graphics, photos, audio files, video files and/or other attachments as are
supported in a MMS and/or an Enhanced Messaging Service (EMS). As used herein, "instant
                                                  27

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
messaging" refers to both telephony-based messages (e.g., messages sent using SMS or
MMS) and Internet-based messages (e.g., messages sent using XMPP, SIMPLE, or IMPS).
[0091]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, GPS module 135, map
module 154, and music player module 146, workout support module 142 includes executable
instructions to create workouts (e.g., with time, distance, and/or calorie burning goals);
communicate with workout sensors (sports devices); receive workout sensor data; calibrate
sensors used to monitor a workout; select and play music for a workout; and display, store
and transmit workout data.
[0092]          In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, optical sensor(s)
 164, optical sensor controller 158, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and image
management module 144, camera module 143 includes executable instructions to capture still
images or video (including a video stream) and store them into memory 102, modify
characteristics of a still image or video, or delete a still image or video from memory 102.
[0093]          In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module
 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and camera module 143, image
management module 144 includes executable instructions to arrange, modify (e.g., edit), or
otherwise manipulate, label, delete, present (e.g., in a digital slide show or album), and store
still and/or video images.
[0094]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134,
browser module 147 includes executable instructions to browse the Internet in accordance
with user instructions, including searching, linking to, receiving, and displaying web pages or
portions thereof, as well as attachments and other files linked to web pages.
[00951          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, e-mail
client module 140, and browser module 147, calendar module 148 includes executable
instructions to create, display, modify, and store calendars and data associated with calendars
(e.g., calendar entries, to do lists, etc.) in accordance with user instructions.
[0096]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and
browser module 147, widget modules 149 are mini-applications that are, optionally,
                                                     28

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
downloaded and used by a user (e.g., weather widget 149-1, stocks widget 149-2, calculator
widget 149-3, alarm clock widget 149-4, and dictionary widget 149-5) or created by the user
(e.g., user-created widget 149-6). In some embodiments, a widget includes an HTML
(Hypertext Markup Language) file, a CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) file, and a JavaScript file.
In some embodiments, a widget includes an XML (Extensible Markup Language) file and a
JavaScript file (e.g., Yahoo! Widgets).
[00971          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and
browser module 147, the widget creator module 150 are, optionally, used by a user to create
widgets (e.g., turning a user-specified portion of a web page into a widget).
[0098]          In conjunction with touch screen 112, display system controller 156, contact
module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, search module 151 includes
executable instructions to search for text, music, sound, image, video, and/or other files in
memory 102 that match one or more search criteria (e.g., one or more user-specified search
terms) in accordance with user instructions.
[0099]          In conjunction with touch screen 112, display system controller 156, contact
module 130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, RF circuitry 108, and
browser module 147, video and music player module 152 includes executable instructions
that allow the user to download and play back recorded music and other sound files stored in
one or more file formats, such as MP3 or AAC files, and executable instructions to display,
present or otherwise play back videos (e.g., on touch screen 112 or on an external, connected
display via external port 124). In some embodiments, device 100 optionally includes the
functionality of an MP3 player, such as an iPod (trademark of Apple Inc.).
[00100]         In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module
 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, notes module 153 includes executable
instructions to create and manage notes, to do lists, and the like in accordance with user
instructions.
[00101]         In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, GPS
module 135, and browser module 147, map module 154 are, optionally, used to receive,
display, modify, and store maps and data associated with maps (e.g., driving directions; data
                                                 29

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
on stores and other points of interest at or near a particular location; and other location-based
data) in accordance with user instructions.
[00102]          In conjunction with touch screen 112, display system controller 156, contact
module 130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, RF circuitry 108, text
input module 134, e-mail client module 140, and browser module 147, online video module
 155 includes instructions that allow the user to access, browse, receive (e.g., by streaming
and/or download), play back (e.g., on the touch screen or on an external, connected display
via external port 124), send an e-mail with a link to a particular online video, and otherwise
manage online videos in one or more file formats, such as H.264. In some embodiments,
instant messaging module 141, rather than e-mail client module 140, is used to send a link to
a particular online video.
[00103]          Each of the above identified modules and applications correspond to a set of
executable instructions for performing one or more functions described above and the
methods described in this application (e.g., the computer-implemented methods and other
information processing methods described herein). These modules (i.e., sets of instructions)
need not be implemented as separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus
various subsets of these modules are, optionally, combined or otherwise re-arranged in
various embodiments. In some embodiments, memory 102 optionally stores a subset of the
modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore, memory 102 optionally stores
additional modules and data structures not described above.
[00104]          In some embodiments, device 100 is a device where operation of a predefined
set of functions on the device is performed exclusively through a touch screen and/or a
touchpad. By using a touch screen and/or a touchpad as the primary input control device for
operation of device 100, the number of physical input control devices (such as push buttons,
dials, and the like) on device 100 is, optionally, reduced.
[001051          The predefined set of functions that are performed exclusively through a touch
screen and/or a touchpad optionally include navigation between user interfaces. In some
embodiments, the touchpad, when touched by the user, navigates device 100 to a main, home,
or root menu from any user interface that is displayed on device 100. In such embodiments, a
"menu button" is implemented using a touchpad. In some other embodiments, the menu
button is a physical push button or other physical input control device instead of a touchpad.
                                                   30

  WO 2013/169877                                                          PCT/US2013/040101
[001061         Figure lB is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components for event
handling in accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments, memory 102 (in
Figures 1A) or 370 (Figure 3) includes event sorter 170 (e.g., in operating system 126) and a
respective application 136-1 (e.g., any of the aforementioned applications 137-151, 155, 380
390).
[001071         Event sorter 170 receives event information and determines the application
 136-1 and application view 191 of application 136-1 to which to deliver the event
information. Event sorter 170 includes event monitor 171 and event dispatcher module 174.
In some embodiments, application 136-1 includes application internal state 192, which
indicates the current application view(s) displayed on touch sensitive display 112 when the
application is active or executing. In some embodiments, device/global internal state 157 is
used by event sorter 170 to determine which application(s) is (are) currently active, and
application internal state 192 is used by event sorter 170 to determine application views 191
to which to deliver event information.
[00108]         In some embodiments, application internal state 192 includes additional
information, such as one or more of: resume information to be used when application 136-1
resumes execution, user interface state information that indicates information being displayed
or that is ready for display by application 136-1, a state queue for enabling the user to go
back to a prior state or view of application 136-1, and a redo/undo queue of previous actions
taken by the user.
[00109]         Event monitor 171 receives event information from peripherals interface 118.
Event information includes information about a sub-event (e.g., a user touch on touch
sensitive display 112, as part of a multi-touch gesture). Peripherals interface 118 transmits
information it receives from I/O subsystem 106 or a sensor, such as proximity sensor 166,
accelerometer(s) 168, and/or microphone 113 (through audio circuitry 110). Information that
peripherals interface 118 receives from I/O subsystem 106 includes information from touch
sensitive display 112 or a touch-sensitive surface.
[00110]         In some embodiments, event monitor 171 sends requests to the peripherals
interface 118 at predetermined intervals. In response, peripherals interface 118 transmits
event information. In other embodiments, peripheral interface 118 transmits event
information only when there is a significant event (e.g., receiving an input above a
predetermined noise threshold and/or for more than a predetermined duration).
                                                  31

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
[00111]         In some embodiments, event sorter 170 also includes a hit view determination
module 172 and/or an active event recognizer determination module 173.
[00112]         Hit view determination module 172 provides software procedures for
determining where a sub-event has taken place within one or more views, when touch
sensitive display 112 displays more than one view. Views are made up of controls and other
elements that a user can see on the display.
[00113]         Another aspect of the user interface associated with an application is a set of
views, sometimes herein called application views or user interface windows, in which
information is displayed and touch-based gestures occur. The application views (of a
respective application) in which a touch is detected optionally correspond to programmatic
levels within a programmatic or view hierarchy of the application. For example, the lowest
level view in which a touch is detected is, optionally, called the hit view, and the set of events
that are recognized as proper inputs are, optionally, determined based, at least in part, on the
hit view of the initial touch that begins a touch-based gesture.
[00114]         Hit view determination module 172 receives information related to sub-events
of a touch-based gesture. When an application has multiple views organized in a hierarchy,
hit view determination module 172 identifies a hit view as the lowest view in the hierarchy
which should handle the sub-event. In most circumstances, the hit view is the lowest level
view in which an initiating sub-event occurs (i.e., the first sub-event in the sequence of sub
events that form an event or potential event). Once the hit view is identified by the hit view
determination module, the hit view typically receives all sub-events related to the same touch
or input source for which it was identified as the hit view.
[001151         Active event recognizer determination module 173 determines which view or
views within a view hierarchy should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In some
embodiments, active event recognizer determination module 173 determines that only the hit
view should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In other embodiments, active event
recognizer determination module 173 determines that all views that include the physical
location of a sub-event are actively involved views, and therefore determines that all actively
involved views should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In other embodiments,
even if touch sub-events were entirely confined to the area associated with one particular
view, views higher in the hierarchy would still remain as actively involved views.
                                                  32

  WO 2013/169877                                                         PCT/US2013/040101
[001161         Event dispatcher module 174 dispatches the event information to an event
recognizer (e.g., event recognizer 180). In embodiments including active event recognizer
determination module 173, event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to an
event recognizer determined by active event recognizer determination module 173. In some
embodiments, event dispatcher module 174 stores in an event queue the event information,
which is retrieved by a respective event receiver module 182.
[001171         In some embodiments, operating system 126 includes event sorter 170.
Alternatively, application 136-1 includes event sorter 170. In yet other embodiments, event
sorter 170 is a stand-alone module, or a part of another module stored in memory 102, such
as contact/motion module 130.
[00118]         In some embodiments, application 136-1 includes a plurality of event handlers
 190 and one or more application views 191, each of which includes instructions for handling
touch events that occur within a respective view of the application's user interface. Each
application view 191 of the application 136-1 includes one or more event recognizers 180.
Typically, a respective application view 191 includes a plurality of event recognizers 180. In
other embodiments, one or more of event recognizers 180 are part of a separate module, such
as a user interface kit (not shown) or a higher level object from which application 136-1
inherits methods and other properties. In some embodiments, a respective event handler 190
includes one or more of: data updater 176, object updater 177, GUI updater 178, and/or event
data 179 received from event sorter 170. Event handler 190 optionally utilizes or calls data
updater 176, object updater 177 or GUI updater 178 to update the application internal state
 192. Alternatively, one or more of the application views 191 includes one or more respective
event handlers 190. Also, in some embodiments, one or more of data updater 176, object
updater 177, and GUI updater 178 are included in a respective application view 191.
[00119]         A respective event recognizer 180 receives event information (e.g., event data
 179) from event sorter 170, and identifies an event from the event information. Event
recognizer 180 includes event receiver 182 and event comparator 184. In some embodiments,
event recognizer 180 also includes at least a subset of: metadata 183, and event delivery
instructions 188 (which optionally include sub-event delivery instructions).
[00120]         Event receiver 182 receives event information from event sorter 170. The
event information includes information about a sub-event, for example, a touch or a touch
movement. Depending on the sub-event, the event information also includes additional
                                                  33

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
information, such as location of the sub-event. When the sub-event concerns motion of a
touch, the event information optionally also includes speed and direction of the sub-event. In
some embodiments, events include rotation of the device from one orientation to another
(e.g., from a portrait orientation to a landscape orientation, or vice versa), and the event
information includes corresponding information about the current orientation (also called
device attitude) of the device.
[00121]          Event comparator 184 compares the event information to predefined event or
sub-event definitions and, based on the comparison, determines an event or sub-event, or
determines or updates the state of an event or sub-event. In some embodiments, event
comparator 184 includes event definitions 186. Event definitions 186 contain definitions of
events (e.g., predefined sequences of sub-events), for example, event 1 (187-1), event 2 (187
2), and others. In some embodiments, sub-events in an event 187 include, for example, touch
begin, touch end, touch movement, touch cancellation, and multiple touching. In one
example, the definition for event 1 (187-1) is a double tap on a displayed object. The double
tap, for example, comprises a first touch (touch begin) on the displayed object for a
predetermined phase, a first lift-off (touch end) for a predetermined phase, a second touch
(touch begin) on the displayed object for a predetermined phase, and a second lift-off (touch
end) for a predetermined phase. In another example, the definition for event 2 (187-2) is a
dragging on a displayed object. The dragging, for example, comprises a touch (or contact) on
the displayed object for a predetermined phase, a movement of the touch across touch
sensitive display 112, and lift-off of the touch (touch end). In some embodiments, the event
also includes information for one or more associated event handlers 190.
[00122]          In some embodiments, event definition 187 includes a definition of an event
for a respective user-interface object. In some embodiments, event comparator 184 performs
a hit test to determine which user-interface object is associated with a sub-event. For
example, in an application view in which three user-interface objects are displayed on touch
sensitive display 112, when a touch is detected on touch-sensitive display 112, event
comparator 184 performs a hit test to determine which of the three user-interface objects is
associated with the touch (sub-event). If each displayed object is associated with a respective
event handler 190, the event comparator uses the result of the hit test to determine which
event handler 190 should be activated. For example, event comparator 184 selects an event
handler associated with the sub-event and the object triggering the hit test.
                                                   34

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
[001231         In some embodiments, the definition for a respective event 187 also includes
delayed actions that delay delivery of the event information until after it has been determined
whether the sequence of sub-events does or does not correspond to the event recognizer's
event type.
[00124]         When a respective event recognizer 180 determines that the series of sub
events do not match any of the events in event definitions 186, the respective event
recognizer 180 enters an event impossible, event failed, or event ended state, after which it
disregards subsequent sub-events of the touch-based gesture. In this situation, other event
recognizers, if any, that remain active for the hit view continue to track and process sub
events of an ongoing touch-based gesture.
[001251         In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 includes metadata
 183 with configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate how the event delivery
system should perform sub-event delivery to actively involved event recognizers. In some
embodiments, metadata 183 includes configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate
how event recognizers interact, or are enabled to interact, with one another. In some
embodiments, metadata 183 includes configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate
whether sub-events are delivered to varying levels in the view or programmatic hierarchy.
[001261         In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 activates event
handler 190 associated with an event when one or more particular sub-events of an event are
recognized. In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 delivers event
information associated with the event to event handler 190. Activating an event handler 190
is distinct from sending (and deferred sending) sub-events to a respective hit view. In some
embodiments, event recognizer 180 throws a flag associated with the recognized event, and
event handler 190 associated with the flag catches the flag and performs a predefined process.
[001271         In some embodiments, event delivery instructions 188 include sub-event
delivery instructions that deliver event information about a sub-event without activating an
event handler. Instead, the sub-event delivery instructions deliver event information to event
handlers associated with the series of sub-events or to actively involved views. Event
handlers associated with the series of sub-events or with actively involved views receive the
event information and perform a predetermined process.
[001281         In some embodiments, data updater 176 creates and updates data used in
application 136-1. For example, data updater 176 updates the telephone number used in
                                                  35

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
contacts module 137, or stores a video file used in video player module 145. In some
embodiments, object updater 177 creates and updates objects used in application 136-1. For
example, object updater 176 creates a new user-interface object or updates the position of a
user-interface object. GUI updater 178 updates the GUI. For example, GUI updater 178
prepares display information and sends it to graphics module 132 for display on a touch
sensitive display.
[00129]           In some embodiments, event handler(s) 190 includes or has access to data
updater 176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178. In some embodiments, data updater
 176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178 are included in a single module of a respective
application 136-1 or application view 191. In other embodiments, they are included in two or
more software modules.
[00130]           It shall be understood that the foregoing discussion regarding event handling
of user touches on touch-sensitive displays also applies to other forms of user inputs to
operate multifunction devices 100 with input-devices, not all of which are initiated on touch
screens. For example, mouse movement and mouse button presses, optionally coordinated
with single or multiple keyboard presses or holds; contact movements such as taps, drags,
scrolls, etc., on touch-pads; pen stylus inputs; movement of the device; oral instructions;
detected eye movements; biometric inputs; and/or any combination thereof are optionally
utilized as inputs corresponding to sub-events which define an event to be recognized.
[00131]           Figure 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device 100 having a touch screen
 112 in accordance with some embodiments. The touch screen optionally displays one or more
graphics within user interface (UI) 200. In this embodiment, as well as others described
below, a user is enabled to select one or more of the graphics by making a gesture on the
graphics, for example, with one or more fingers 202 (not drawn to scale in the figure) or one
or more styluses 203 (not drawn to scale in the figure). In some embodiments, selection of
one or more graphics occurs when the user breaks contact with the one or more graphics. In
some embodiments, the gesture optionally includes one or more taps, one or more swipes
(from left to right, right to left, upward and/or downward) and/or a rolling of a finger (from
right to left, left to right, upward and/or downward) that has made contact with device 100. In
some implementations or circumstances, inadvertent contact with a graphic does not select
the graphic. For example, a swipe gesture that sweeps over an application icon optionally
does not select the corresponding application when the gesture corresponding to selection is a
tap.
                                                    36

  WO 2013/169877                                                          PCT/US2013/040101
[001321          Device 100 optionally also includes one or more physical buttons, such as
"home" or menu button 204. As described previously, menu button 204 is, optionally, used to
navigate to any application 136 in a set of applications that are, optionally executed on device
 100. Alternatively, in some embodiments, the menu button is implemented as a soft key in a
GUI displayed on touch screen 112.
[00133]          In one embodiment, device 100 includes touch screen 112, menu button 204,
push button 206 for powering the device on/off and locking the device, volume adjustment
button(s) 208, Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) card slot 210, head set jack 212, and
docking/charging external port 124. Push button 206 is, optionally, used to turn the power
on/off on the device by depressing the button and holding the button in the depressed state for
a predefined time interval; to lock the device by depressing the button and releasing the
button before the predefined time interval has elapsed; and/or to unlock the device or initiate
an unlock process. In an alternative embodiment, device 100 also accepts verbal input for
activation or deactivation of some functions through microphone 113. Device 100 also,
optionally, includes one or more contact intensity sensors 165 for detecting intensity of
contacts on touch screen 112 and/or one or more tactile output generators 167 for generating
tactile outputs for a user of device 100.
[00134]          Figure 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary multifunction device with a
display and a touch-sensitive surface in accordance with some embodiments. Device 300
need not be portable. In some embodiments, device 300 is a laptop computer, a desktop
computer, a tablet computer, a multimedia player device, a navigation device, an educational
device (such as a child's learning toy), a gaming system, or a control device (e.g., a home or
industrial controller). Device 300 typically includes one or more processing units (CPU's)
310, one or more network or other communications interfaces 360, memory 370, and one or
more communication buses 320 for interconnecting these components. Communication buses
320 optionally include circuitry (sometimes called a chipset) that interconnects and controls
communications between system components. Device 300 includes input/output (I/O)
interface 330 comprising display 340, which is typically a touch screen display. I/O interface
330 also optionally includes a keyboard and/or mouse (or other pointing device) 350 and
touchpad 355, tactile output generator 357 for generating tactile outputs on device 300 (e.g.,
similar to tactile output generator(s) 167 described above with reference to Figure 1A),
sensors 359 (e.g., optical, acceleration, proximity, touch-sensitive, and/or contact intensity
sensors similar to contact intensity sensor(s) 165 described above with reference to Figure
                                                  37

  WO 2013/169877                                                          PCT/US2013/040101
 1A). Memory 370 includes high-speed random access memory, such as DRAM, SRAM,
DDR RAM or other random access solid state memory devices; and optionally includes non
volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices, optical disk storage
devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid state storage devices. Memory 370
optionally includes one or more storage devices remotely located from CPU(s) 310. In some
embodiments, memory 370 stores programs, modules, and data structures analogous to the
programs, modules, and data structures stored in memory 102 of portable multifunction
device 100 (Figure 1A), or a subset thereof. Furthermore, memory 370 optionally stores
additional programs, modules, and data structures not present in memory 102 of portable
multifunction device 100. For example, memory 370 of device 300 optionally stores drawing
module 380, presentation module 382, word processing module 384, website creation module
386, disk authoring module 388, and/or spreadsheet module 390, while memory 102 of
portable multifunction device 100 (Figure 1A) optionally does not store these modules.
[001351          Each of the above identified elements in Figure 3 are, optionally, stored in one
or more of the previously mentioned memory devices. Each of the above identified modules
corresponds to a set of instructions for performing a function described above. The above
identified modules or programs (i.e., sets of instructions) need not be implemented as
separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus various subsets of these
modules are, optionally, combined or otherwise re-arranged in various embodiments. In some
embodiments, memory 370 optionally stores a subset of the modules and data structures
identified above. Furthermore, memory 370 optionally stores additional modules and data
structures not described above.
[00136]          Attention is now directed towards embodiments of user interfaces ("UI") that
is, optionally, implemented on portable multifunction device 100.
[001371          Figure 4A illustrates an exemplary user interface for a menu of applications on
portable multifunction device 100 in accordance with some embodiments. Similar user
interfaces are, optionally, implemented on device 300. In some embodiments, user interface
400 includes the following elements, or a subset or superset thereof:
     .   Signal strength indicator(s) 402 for wireless communication(s), such as cellular and
         Wi-Fi signals;
     .   Time 404;
     .   Bluetooth indicator 405;
                                                  38

  WO 2013/169877                                                          PCT/US2013/040101
    .  Battery status indicator 406;
    .  Tray 408 with icons for frequently used applications, such as:
           o  Icon 416 for telephone module 138, labeled "Phone," which optionally
              includes an indicator 414 of the number of missed calls or voicemail
              messages;
           o  Icon 418 for e-mail client module 140, labeled "Mail," which optionally
              includes an indicator 410 of the number of unread e-mails;
           o  Icon 420 for browser module 147, labeled "Browser;" and
           o  Icon 422 for video and music player module 152, also referred to as iPod
               (trademark of Apple Inc.) module 152, labeled "iPod;" and
    *  Icons for other applications, such as:
           o  Icon 424 for IM module 141, labeled "Text;"
           o  Icon 426 for calendar module 148, labeled "Calendar;"
           o  Icon 428 for image management module 144, labeled "Photos;"
           o  Icon 430 for camera module 143, labeled "Camera;"
           o  Icon 432 for online video module 155, labeled "Online Video"
           o  Icon 434 for stocks widget 149-2, labeled "Stocks;"
           o  Icon 436 for map module 154, labeled "Map;"
           o  Icon 438 for weather widget 149-1, labeled "Weather;"
           o  Icon 440 for alarm clock widget 149-4, labeled "Clock;"
           o  Icon 442 for workout support module 142, labeled "Workout Support;"
           o  Icon 444 for notes module 153, labeled "Notes;" and
           o  Icon 446 for a settings application or module, which provides access to
               settings for device 100 and its various applications 136.
[00138]       It should be noted that the icon labels illustrated in Figure 4A are merely
exemplary. For example, icon 422 for video and music player module 152 are labeled
"Music" or "Music Player." Other labels are, optionally, used for various application icons.
In some embodiments, a label for a respective application icon includes a name of an
                                                 39

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
application corresponding to the respective application icon. In some embodiments, a label
for a particular application icon is distinct from a name of an application corresponding to the
particular application icon.
[00139]         Figure 4B illustrates an exemplary user interface on a device (e.g., device 300,
Figure 3) with a touch-sensitive surface 451 (e.g., a tablet or touchpad 355, Figure 3) that is
separate from the display 450 (e.g., touch screen display 112). Device 300 also, optionally,
includes one or more contact intensity sensors (e.g., one or more of sensors 357) for detecting
intensity of contacts on touch-sensitive surface 451 and/or one or more tactile output
generators 359 for generating tactile outputs for a user of device 300.
[00140]         Although some of the examples which follow will be given with reference to
inputs on touch screen display 112 (where the touch sensitive surface and the display are
combined), in some embodiments, the device detects inputs on a touch-sensitive surface that
is separate from the display, as shown in Figure 4B. In some embodiments the touch sensitive
surface (e.g., 451 in Figure 4B) has a primary axis (e.g., 452 in Figure 4B) that corresponds
to a primary axis (e.g., 453 in Figure 4B) on the display (e.g., 450). In accordance with these
embodiments, the device detects contacts (e.g., 460 and 462 in Figure 4B) with the touch
sensitive surface 451 at locations that correspond to respective locations on the display (e.g.,
in Figure 4B, 460 corresponds to 468 and 462 corresponds to 470). In this way, user inputs
(e.g., contacts 460 and 462, and movements thereof) detected by the device on the touch
sensitive surface (e.g., 451 in Figure 4B) are used by the device to manipulate the user
interface on the display (e.g., 450 in Figure 4B) of the multifunction device when the touch
sensitive surface is separate from the display. It should be understood that similar methods
are, optionally, used for other user interfaces described herein.
[00141]         Additionally, while the following examples are given primarily with reference
to finger inputs (e.g., finger contacts, finger tap gestures, finger swipe gestures), it should be
understood that, in some embodiments, one or more of the finger inputs are replaced with
input from another input device (e.g., a mouse based input or stylus input). For example, a
swipe gesture is, optionally, replaced with a mouse click (e.g., instead of a contact) followed
by movement of the cursor along the path of the swipe (e.g., instead of movement of the
contact). As another example, a tap gesture is, optionally, replaced with a mouse click while
the cursor is located over the location of the tap gesture (e.g., instead of detection of the
contact followed by ceasing to detect the contact). Similarly, when multiple user inputs are
                                                   40

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
simultaneously detected, it should be understood that multiple computer mice are, optionally,
used simultaneously, or a mouse and finger contacts are, optionally, used simultaneously.
[00142]         As used herein, the term "focus selector" refers to an input element that
indicates a current part of a user interface with which a user is interacting. In some
implementations that include a cursor or other location marker, the cursor acts as a "focus
selector," so that when an input (e.g., a press input) is detected on a touch-sensitive surface
(e.g., touchpad 355 in Figure 3 or touch-sensitive surface 451 in Figure 4B) while the cursor
is over a particular user interface element (e.g., a button, window, slider or other user
interface element), the particular user interface element is adjusted in accordance with the
detected input. In some implementations that include a touch-screen display (e.g., touch
sensitive display system 112 in Figure 1A or touch screen 112 in Figure 4A) that enables
direct interaction with user interface elements on the touch-screen display, a detected contact
on the touch-screen acts as a "focus selector," so that when an input (e.g., a press input by the
contact) is detected on the touch-screen display at a location of a particular user interface
element (e.g., a button, window, slider or other user interface element), the particular user
interface element is adjusted in accordance with the detected input. In some implementations
focus is moved from one region of a user interface to another region of the user interface
without corresponding movement of a cursor or movement of a contact on a touch-screen
display (e.g., by using a tab key or arrow keys to move focus from one button to another
button); in these implementations, the focus selector moves in accordance with movement of
focus between different regions of the user interface. Without regard to the specific form
taken by the focus selector, the focus selector is generally the user interface element (or
contact on a touch-screen display) that is controlled by the user so as to communicate the
user's intended interaction with the user interface (e.g., by indicating, to the device, the
element of the user interface with which the user is intending to interact). For example, the
location of a focus selector (e.g., a cursor, a contact or a selection box) over a respective
button while a press input is detected on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a touchpad or touch
screen) will indicate that the user is intending to activate the respective button (as opposed to
other user interface elements shown on a display of the device).
[001431         The user interface figures described below include various intensity diagrams
that show the current intensity of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface relative to one or
more intensity thresholds (e.g., a contact detection intensity threshold ITo, a light press
intensity threshold ITL, a deep press intensity threshold ITD, and/or one or more other
                                                   41

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
intensity thresholds). This intensity diagram is typically not part of the displayed user
interface, but is provided to aid in the interpretation of the figures. In some embodiments, the
light press intensity threshold corresponds to an intensity at which the device will perform
operations typically associated with clicking a button of a physical mouse or a trackpad. In
some embodiments, the deep press intensity threshold corresponds to an intensity at which
the device will perform operations that are different from operations typically associated with
clicking a button of a physical mouse or a trackpad. In some embodiments, when a contact is
detected with an intensity below the light press intensity threshold (e.g., and above a nominal
contact-detection intensity threshold ITo below which the contact is no longer detected), the
device will move a focus selector in accordance with movement of the contact on the touch
sensitive surface without performing an operation associated with the light press intensity
threshold or the deep press intensity threshold. Generally, unless otherwise stated, these
intensity thresholds are consistent between different sets of user interface figures.
[00144]         An increase of intensity of the contact from an intensity below the light press
intensity threshold ITL to an intensity between the light press intensity threshold ITL and the
deep press intensity threshold ITD is sometimes referred to as a "light press" input. An
increase of intensity of the contact from an intensity below the deep press intensity threshold
ITD  to an intensity above the deep press intensity threshold ITD is sometimes referred to as a
"deep press" input. An increase of intensity of the contact from an intensity below the
contact-detection intensity threshold ITo to an intensity between the contact-detection
intensity threshold ITo and the light press intensity threshold ITL is sometimes referred to as
detecting the contact on the touch-surface. A decrease of intensity of the contact from an
intensity above the contact-detection intensity threshold ITo to an intensity below the contact
intensity threshold ITo is sometimes referred to as detecting liftoff of the contact from the
touch-surface. In some embodiments ITo is zero. In some embodiments ITo is greater than
zero. In some illustrations a shaded circle or oval is used to represent intensity of a contact on
the touch-sensitive surface. In some illustrations a circle or oval without shading is used
represent a respective contact on the touch-sensitive surface without specifying the intensity
of the respective contact.
[001451         In some embodiments described herein, one or more operations are performed
in response to detecting a gesture that includes a respective press input or in response to
detecting the respective press input performed with a respective contact (or a plurality of
contacts), where the respective press input is detected based at least in part on detecting an
                                                   42

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
increase in intensity of the contact (or plurality of contacts) above a press-input intensity
threshold. In some embodiments, the respective operation is performed in response to
detecting the increase in intensity of the respective contact above the press-input intensity
threshold (e.g., a "down stroke" of the respective press input). In some embodiments, the
press input includes an increase in intensity of the respective contact above the press-input
intensity threshold and a subsequent decrease in intensity of the contact below the press-input
intensity threshold, and the respective operation is performed in response to detecting the
subsequent decrease in intensity of the respective contact below the press-input threshold
(e.g., an "up stroke" of the respective press input).
[00146]          In some embodiments, the device employs intensity hysteresis to avoid
accidental inputs sometimes termed "jitter," where the device defines or selects a hysteresis
intensity threshold with a predefined relationship to the press-input intensity threshold (e.g.,
the hysteresis intensity threshold is X intensity units lower than the press-input intensity
threshold or the hysteresis intensity threshold is 75%, 90% or some reasonable proportion of
the press-input intensity threshold). Thus, in some embodiments, the press input includes an
increase in intensity of the respective contact above the press-input intensity threshold and a
subsequent decrease in intensity of the contact below the hysteresis intensity threshold that
corresponds to the press-input intensity threshold, and the respective operation is performed
in response to detecting the subsequent decrease in intensity of the respective contact below
the hysteresis intensity threshold (e.g., an "up stroke" of the respective press input).
Similarly, in some embodiments, the press input is detected only when the device detects an
increase in intensity of the contact from an intensity at or below the hysteresis intensity
threshold to an intensity at or above the press-input intensity threshold and, optionally, a
subsequent decrease in intensity of the contact to an intensity at or below the hysteresis
intensity, and the respective operation is performed in response to detecting the press input
(e.g., the increase in intensity of the contact or the decrease in intensity of the contact,
depending on the circumstances).
[001471          For ease of explanation, the description of operations performed in response to
a press input associated with a press-input intensity threshold or in response to a gesture
including the press input are, optionally, triggered in response to detecting either: an increase
in intensity of a contact above the press-input intensity threshold, an increase in intensity of a
contact from an intensity below the hysteresis intensity threshold to an intensity above the
press-input intensity threshold, a decrease in intensity of the contact below the press-input
                                                    43

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
intensity threshold, and/or a decrease in intensity of the contact below the hysteresis intensity
threshold corresponding to the press-input intensity threshold. Additionally, in examples
where an operation is described as being performed in response to detecting a decrease in
intensity of a contact below the press-input intensity threshold, the operation is, optionally,
performed in response to detecting a decrease in intensity of the contact below a hysteresis
intensity threshold corresponding to, and lower than, the press-input intensity threshold.
                    USER INTERFACES AND ASSOCIATED PROCESSES
                                Selecting User Interface Objects
[00148]          Many electronic devices have graphical user interfaces that display user
interface objects such as thumbnails, icons, folders, and thumb/handles in scrubbers and
slider bar. Often, a user of an electronic device will want to select and move user interface
objects on a display. For example, a user will want to rearrange desktop items on a desktop of
a user interface. As another example, a user may want to rearrange the order of applications,
or "apps" displayed on the display of a portable multifunction device (such as a smart-phone
or the like). As yet another example, a user may want to move the handle of the volume bar
(a handle being a type of user interface object) to change the volume produced by the media
player. Some methods of selecting user interface objects on electronic devices with touch
sensitive surfaces typically require a new input to individually select a user interface object
(e.g., a mouse click or a tap and drag input). Moreover, once one user interface object is
selected, selection of a second user interface object (e.g., another desktop item) requires a
separate input (e.g., a different tap and drag gesture with a different contact). The problem
with such methods is that they fail to provide a convenient way for users to select a user
interface object during the course of a continuous contact with a touch-sensitive surface. The
embodiments described below provide an effective, efficient method for an electronic device
with a touch-sensitive surface to select multiple objects by determining whether or not to
select a user interface object, based on an intensity of a contact with the touch-sensitive
surface.
[00149]          Figures 5A-5AA illustrate exemplary user interfaces for selecting user
interface objects in accordance with some embodiments. The user interfaces in these figures
are used to illustrate the processes described below, including the processes in Figures 6A
6E. Figures 5A-5AA include intensity diagrams that show the current intensity of the contact
on the touch-sensitive surface relative to a plurality of intensity thresholds including a
                                                  44

  WO 2013/169877                                                          PCT/US2013/040101
predefined intensity threshold (e.g., light press intensity threshold "ITL"). In some
embodiments, operations similar to those described below with reference to the light press
intensity threshold ITL are performed with reference to a deep press intensity threshold   ITD.
[00150]          In some embodiments, the device is portable multifunction device 100, the
display is touch-sensitive display system 112, and the touch-sensitive surface includes tactile
output generators 167 on the display (Figure 1A). For convenience of explanation, the
embodiments described with reference to Figures 5A-5AA and Figure 6A-6E will be
discussed with reference to display 450 and a separate touch-sensitive surface 451, however
analogous operations are, optionally, performed on a device with a touch-sensitive display
system 112 in response to detecting the contacts described in Figures 5A-5AA on the touch
sensitive display system 112 while displaying the user interfaces shown in Figures 5A-5AA
on the touch-sensitive display system 112; in such embodiments, the focus selector is,
optionally: a respective contact, a representative point corresponding to a contact (e.g., a
centroid of a respective contact or a point associated with a respective contact), or a centroid
of two or more contacts detected on the touch-sensitive display system 112, in place of cursor
 17108, cursor 17132 or cursor 17140.
[001511          Figures 5A-5AA illustrate exemplary user interfaces for selecting user
interface objects in accordance with some embodiments. The user interfaces in these figures
are used to illustrate the processes described below, including the processes in Figures 6A
6E.
[00152]          Figures 5A-5E illustrate an example of selecting a user interface object in
accordance with some embodiments. User interface 17100 is displayed on display 450 and
includes user interface objects (e.g., thumbnails 17102, dock 17104, taskbar 17105) as well as
a focus selector (e.g., cursor 17108).
[00153]          Figure 5B illustrates an example of a user interface in which a contact 17110
(e.g., a press input) is detected on touch-sensitive surface 451. Contact 17110 is detected on
the touch-sensitive surface (contact 17110 has an intensity on the touch-sensitive surface 451,
sometimes referred to simply as "an intensity of contact" or "contact intensity"). Contact
 17110 in Figure 5B controls the position of cursor 17108. For example, movement of contact
 17110 across touch-sensitive surface 451 (illustrated by the arrow attached to contact 17110)
causes cursor 17108 to move toward, or in some cases to, a location of thumbnail 17102-1 on
display 450.
                                                   45

  WO 2013/169877                                                          PCT/US2013/040101
[001541         Figures 5B-5C further illustrate an example of moving a focus selector (e.g.,
cursor 17108) over a user interface object. Figure 5C follows from Figure 5B in the sense that
detection of movement of contact 17110 on touch-sensitive surface 451 from the location of
contact 17110 in Figure 5B to the location of contact 17110 in Figure 5C causes the device to
move cursor 17108 over thumbnail 17102-1. It should be appreciated that the location of
thumbnail 17102-1 is, optionally, defined as a point (e.g., a corner of the thumbnail, a
centroid or geometric center), or by a non-zero area, such as any location within the boundary
of thumbnail 17102 or a hidden hit region for thumbnail 17102-1. In some embodiments, the
hidden hit region is larger than thumbnail 17102-1. In some embodiments, the hidden hit
region is "shifted" relative to the boundary of thumbnail 17102-1. Accordingly, in some
embodiments, cursor 17108 is considered "over" thumbnail 17102-1 whenever cursor 17108
is displayed within the boundary defining the location of thumbnail 17102-1. The location of
other user interface objects is, optionally, defined in a similar manner.
[001551         Figures 5C-5D illustrate an example of selecting a user interface object based
on intensity of contact 17110 while the focus selector (in this example, cursor 17108) is at the
location of thumbnail 17102-1. In this example, a light press input (e.g., an increase in
intensity of contact 17108 from an intensity below ITL in Figure 5C to an intensity above ITL
in Figure 5D) is detected while cursor 17108 is over thumbnail 17102-1. Figure 5D illustrates
an example of a response of the device to detecting a light press while cursor 17108 is over
thumbnail 17102-1. In response to detecting the light press input, the device selects
thumbnail 17102-1, as shown in Figure 5D. In some embodiments, the selection of thumbnail
 17102-1 is indicated by displaying a thumbnail representation (e.g., TNR 17116-1, Figure
5E) at the original location thumbnail 17102-1. In some embodiments, a thumbnail
representation is not displayed. In some embodiments, the device alters the appearance of
thumbnail 17102-1 to indicate that it has been selected (e.g., the displayed thumbnail is
highlighted). In the example shown in Figure 5E, thumbnail 17102-1 is now "attached" to
cursor 17108 and will move on the display, along with cursor 17108, in response to
subsequent detection of movement of contact 17110 until the thumbnail is dropped.
[00156]         Figure 5E illustrates an example of a response to movement of contact 17110
after thumbnail 17102-1 is selected. In response to movement of contact 17110 across touch
sensitive surface 451 (e.g., from the location of contact 17110 in Figure 5D to the location of
contact 17110 in Figure 5E), cursor 17108 is moved and thumbnail 17102-1 is moved in a
corresponding manner (e.g., thumbnail 17102-1 is moved so that it remains proximate to
                                                  46

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
cursor 17108). In some embodiments, after selection of user interface object 17102-1, the
intensity of contact 17110 does not need to be maintained above the predefined intensity
threshold. For example, the intensity of contact 17110, as shown in Figure 5E, is below light
press intensity threshold ITL, however, user interface object 17102-1 remains selected. In
some embodiments, the intensity of contact 17110 remains above the light press intensity
threshold with the same effect.
[001571          Figures 5A-5B and 5F-5G illustrate an example of forgoing selection of a user
interface object in accordance with some embodiments. Figures 5A and 5B again
demonstrate aspects of the method previous described with references to those figures, e.g.,
detection of a contact, movement of the contact and corresponding movement of the focus
selector, and the like. In this example, however, contact 17110 as shown in Figure 5F,
remains below the light press intensity threshold ITL while cursor 17108 is over user interface
object 17102-1. As a result, the device forgoes selection of thumbnail 17102-1. This response
by the device provides an intuitive way for the user to drag cursor 17108 over thumbnail
 17102-1 (e.g., "mouse-over") without selecting the thumbnail because the user has not
increased the intensity of contact 17110 above ITL. The user can subsequently move the
cursor to a different location (e.g., the location of cursor 17108 in Figure 5G) without
dragging thumbnail 17102-1 along with it.
[00158]          Figures 5A-5B and 5H-5J illustrate an example of embodiments in which
selection of a user interface object is based on a change in the intensity of a contact relative to
an initial intensity of the contact. The examples illustrated in these are different from the
embodiments described above with reference to Figures 5A-5G, in which a particular
intensity value (e.g., ITL) is used as an intensity threshold that is used in determining whether
to select, or forgo selecting, a user interface object. Figures 5A and 5B illustrate positioning
cursor 17108 over thumbnail 17102-1 as described previously. Figure 5G includes a graph
showing the intensity of contact 17110 versus time during the period that cursor 17108 is
over thumbnail 17102-1. The device selects a baseline intensity for comparison, labeled IO. It
should be appreciated that I0 is, optionally, determined in any number of ways. For example,
in some embodiments, I0 is the intensity of contact at the moment when cursor 17108 is first
detected "over" thumbnail 17102-1, where the term "over" should be interpreted as
previously described. In some embodiments, I0 is an average contact intensity of contact
 17110, starting from the beginning of the contact. In still alternative embodiments, I0 is a
"smart" value, meaning that the value is adapted to a particular user (e.g., I0 is higher for
                                                   47

  WO 2013/169877                                                              PCT/US2013/040101
users who tend to press harder during normal use). Figure 5H shows an example of contact
 17110 having an intensity that exceeds, at a particular time TO, a predefined threshold for a
change in contact intensity relative to IO. In this example, the predefined threshold for a
change in contact intensity relative to I0 is 50%. Thus, in this example, when the contact
intensity reaches I0 + 50% of IO,(or, equivalently, I[TO]     = 1.5 x IO) predefined selection
criteria are met and thumbnail 17102-1 is selected. Figure 51 illustrates selection of thumbnail
 17102-1, subsequent to (e.g., at a time TO + A) and in response to predefined selection criteria
being met as described with reference to Figure 5H. Figures 51-5J illustrate movement of
cursor 17108 and thumbnail representation 17116-1 following selection of thumbnail 17102
 1 in response to detecting movement of contact 17110 (e.g., from the location of contact
 17110 in Figure 51 to the location of contact 17110 in Figure 5J) . These operations are
analogous to those discussed with reference to Figure 5E.
[001591          Figures 5A-5B and Figures 5K-5L illustrate an example of embodiments in
which forgoing selection of a user interface object is based on a change in the intensity of a
contact relative to an initial intensity of the contact, in accordance with some embodiments.
In Figure 5K, cursor 17108 is positioned over thumbnail 17102-1 as described previously
with reference to Figures 5A-5B. An initial contact intensity I0 is determined as described
with references to Figure 5H. In this example, however, the contact intensity does not exceed
the predefined threshold for change in contact intensity while cursor 17108 is at position over
thumbnail 17102-1. As a result, the device forgoes selection of thumbnail 17102-1. Detection
of subsequent movement of contact 17110, shown in Figure 5L, results in movement of
cursor (e.g., from the position of cursor 17108 in Figure 5K to the position of cursor 17108 in
Figure 5L) without corresponding movement of thumbnail 17102-1.
[00160]          Figures 5M-5P illustrate selection of a second user interface object (e.g.,
thumbnail 17102-2) in accordance with some embodiments. After selection of thumbnail
 17102-1 (for example, as shown in Figure 5D) the device detects movement of contact 17110
in Figure 5M and, in response, moves cursor 17108 from its previous position in Figure 5M
to a new position that is over thumbnail 17102-2 in Figure 5N. In response to detecting a light
press input while cursor 17108 is over thumbnail 17102-2, as shown in Figures 5N-50 where
the intensity of contact 17110 increases from an intensity below ITL to an intensity above ITL,
the device selects thumbnail 17102-2 without deselecting or dropping thumbnail 17102-1. In
Figure 5P, the device detects movement of contact 17110 (e.g., from the position of contact
 17110 in Figure 50 to the position of contact 17110 in Figure 5P) and, in response to
                                                   48

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
detecting the movement of contact 17110 in Figure 5P, the device moves cursor 17108 and
both of the selected thumbnails 17102-1 and 17102-2, as shown in Figure 5P.
[00161]         As shown in Figure 5P, after thumbnails 17102-1 and 17102-2 have been
selected and moved in accordance with movement of cursor 17108, the device displays
respective residual images 17116-1 and 17116-2 that correspond to the respective thumbnails.
In some embodiments, detecting a light press input (e.g., an increase in intensity of contact
 17110 from an intensity below ITL to an intensity above ITL) while cursor 17108 is over one
of the residual images would cause the device to deselect the corresponding thumbnail. For
example, in Figure 5P, if the device detected a light press input after moving cursor 17108
over residual image 17116-2, the device would deselect thumbnail 17102-2. Similarly, in
Figure 5P, if the device detected a light press input after moving cursor 17108 over residual
image 17116-1, the device would deselect thumbnail 17102-1.
[00162]         Figures 5M-5N and 5Q-5R illustrate examples of forgoing selection of a
second user interface object (e.g., thumbnail 17102-2), while maintaining selection of a first
user interface object (e.g., thumbnail 17102-1). After selection of thumbnail 17102-1 (for
example, as shown in Figure 5D) the device detects movement of contact 17110 in Figure 5M
and, in response moves cursor 17108 from its previous position shown in Figure 5M to a new
position that is over thumbnail as shown in Figure 5N. In Figure 5Q, the intensity of contact
 17110 remains below the light press threshold during the period of time in which the cursor
 17108 is over thumbnail 17102-2. As a result, the device forgoes selection of thumbnail
 17102-2 and detection of movement of contact 17110 results in movement of the cursor
 17108 accompanied by Thumbnail 17102-1, and not by thumbnail 17102-2 or a
representation of thumbnail 17102-2, as shown in Figure 5R. In some embodiments,
selecting, or forgoing selection of, a second user interface object is based on a change in the
intensity of contact relative to an initial intensity of contact, as previously described, rather
than a "fixed" or "absolute" intensity threshold.
[00163]         In some circumstances, movement of a particular user interface object is
naturally constrained to one dimension. For example, volume sliders (which allow a user to
graphically adjust the volume of, for example, speakers integrated into electronic device 300)
and video scrubbers (which allow users to graphically "fast-forward" or "rewind" a digital
video clip, also sometimes called a video scrub bar) are constrained to up and down or,
alternatively, forward and back directions. Figures 5S-5AA illustrate several examples of
                                                    49

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
selecting a user interface object, or forgoing selection of a user interface object, that is
constrained to one dimensions.
[00164]          Figure 5S illustrates a user interface with a media player 17130. Media player
 17130 includes a video scrubber 17134. Video scrubber 17134 includes a handle 17136 that
indicates progress of a video clip. For example, as the video clip progresses, handle 17136
moves to the right. In some embodiments, a user can "click-and-drag" handle 17136 to the
left (thereby "rewinding") or to the right (thereby "fast-forwarding"). However, in some user
interfaces, subsequent motion of cursor 17132 away from the scrubber results in handle
 17136 being deselected or dropped. In some embodiments described herein, a determination
is made as to whether or not to select handle 17136 based on the intensity of contact while
cursor 17132 is over handle 17136. When handle 17136 is selected, handle 17136 remains
selected despite movement of cursor 17132 away from the scrubber, as described below.
Additionally, in some user interfaces, a respective user interface object is only selected when
a contact is initially detected in conjunction with detecting a focus selector over the
respective user interface object (e.g., if a contact is detected on a touch-screen display at a
position remote from a thumb on a slider, the thumb is not selected even if the contact moves
over the thumb). Thus, it would be advantageous to be able to select and maintain selection of
a user interface object that is constrained to a predefined path based on intensity of a contact
rather than initial position of a focus selector on a touch-sensitive surface.
[001651          Figures 5S-5T illustrate moving a focus selector (e.g., cursor 17132) across
display 450 in response to detecting movement of contact 17138 across the touch-sensitive
surface 451. As shown in Figure 5S before detecting the movement of contact 17138, cursor
 17132 is at a position remote from handle 17136, and the device moves cursor 17132 over
handle 17136, as shown in Figure 5T. Figures 5T-5U illustrate detecting a light press input
including detecting an increase in the intensity of contact 17138 from an intensity below ITL
to an intensity above ITL. Figures 5U-5V illustrate movement of contact 17138 that
corresponds to movement of cursor 17132 to a new position shown in Figure 5V. Although
cursor 17138 is allowed to move freely within the two dimensions of the display in Figures
5S-5V, handle 17136 is constrained to an allowed direction defined by the scrubber 17134.
As a result, handle 17136 follows the projection (or the component of) of the movement of
cursor 17132 on the display in the allowed direction along the scrubber 17134.
[00166]          Figures 5W-5AA illustrate an example of selection and movement of a user
interface objects constrained to one dimension. However, in this example, the user interface
                                                    50

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
objects (in this case icons in an icon bar) are constrained to visual discrete locations within
their one dimensional range of motion. For instance, the icons in the icon bar are ordered
from left-to-right and are consistently spaced. A user, therefore, is not permitted to randomly
position icons within the icon bar, but can swap the location of two icons. In Figure 5W, the
device detects contact 17142 on touch-sensitive surface 451 and detects movement of the
contact (e.g., from the position of contact 17142 in Figure 5W to the position of contact
 17142 in Figure 5X) and in response to detecting the movement of contact 17142, the device
moves cursor 17140. In Figures 5W-5X, the device moves the cursor 17140 from a position
remote from folder A in Figure 5W to a position over folder A in Figure 5X. In Figures 5X
5Y, the device detects a light press input including detecting an increase in intensity of
contact 17142 from an intensity below ITL to an intensity above ITL and in response, the
device selects Folder A. In response to detecting subsequent movement of contact 17142
shown in Figure 5Z-5AA, the device moves cursor 17140 and re-orders the icons in the task
bar, as shown in Figures 5Z-5AA. For example, in some embodiments, the final position of
Folder A is determined using the projection of cursor movement along the allowed direction
and then rounded to determine the new location among the discrete locations available to
Folder A. When a determination is made that Folder A should move, for example, one place
to the right of its current location, the device swaps the location of Folder A and the icon to
its right. For example, Figure 5Z illustrates swapping the location of Folder A and Folder B.
Similarly, Figure 5AA illustrates an example of further swapping Folder A with the music
icon in response to additional movement of cursor 17140 that includes a component
corresponding to movement of cursor 17140 to the right on display 450.
[001671          Figures 6A-6E are flow diagrams illustrating a method 17200 of determining
whether to select a user interface object or forgo selecting a user interface object when a
focus selector that corresponds to a contact that is already detected on the touch-sensitive
surface passes over the user interface object, based on an intensity of the contact, on the
touch-sensitive surface, while the focus selector is over the user interface object, in
accordance with some embodiments. Method 17200 is performed at an electronic device
(e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device 100, Figure 1A) with a display
and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the display is a touch screen display and
the touch-sensitive surface is on the display. In some embodiments, the display is separate
from the touch-sensitive surface. Some operations in method 17200 are, optionally, combined
and/or the order of some operations is, optionally, changed.
                                                   51

  WO 2013/169877                                                               PCT/US2013/040101
[001681          As described below, method 17200 provides an intuitive way to select a user
interface object. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when selecting a user
interface object, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery
operated electronic devices, method 17200 enables a user to select user interface object faster
and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time between battery charges.
[001691          The device displays (17202) a first user interface object at a first location on
the display, for example, thumbnail 17102-1 as described with reference to Figure 5A. The
device detects (17204) a contact (e.g., a finger contact) with a touch-sensitive surface, such as
contact 17110 described with reference to 17 1B. The device detects (17206) first movement
of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to movement of a focus
selector toward the first location (e.g., to the first location). The first location is, optionally, a
point or a region with a non-zero area, such as a hidden hit region for the first user interface
object. In response to detecting the first movement of the contact (17208), the device moves
the focus selector (17210) from a location remote from the first user interface object to the
first location. For example, in Figure 5B, cursor 17108 starts at an initial location, and in
response to detecting movement of contact 17110 in Figure 5C of the device moves cursor
 17108 to a new location over thumbnail 17102-1.
[001701          The device also determines (17212) an intensity of the contact on the touch
sensitive surface while the focus selector is at the first location. After detecting the first
movement of the contact, the device detects (17214) second movement of the contact across
the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to movement of the focus selector away from the
first location. For example in Figure 5E, 5G, 5J and 5L the device detects movement of
contact 17110 and, in response to detecting the movement of 17110 the device moves cursor
 17108 away from the location corresponding to thumbnail 17102-1. In response to detecting
the second movement of the contact (17216), the device determines (17218) whether the
contact meets selection criteria for the first user interface object. The selection criteria for the
first user interface object include that the contact meets a predefined intensity threshold while
the focus selector is at the first location. Figures 5C-5E and Figures 5H-5J illustrate examples
where the contact meets the selection criteria while the focus selector (e.g., cursor 17108) is
over the first user interface object (e.g., thumbnail 17102-1). Figures 5F-5G and Figures 5K
5L illustrate examples where the contact does not meet the selection criteria while the focus
selector (e.g., cursor 17108) is over the first user interface object (e.g., thumbnail 17102-1).
                                                     52

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
[001711          In some embodiments, the predefined intensity threshold is based (17220) at
least in part on a magnitude of intensity of the contact (e.g., if the intensity of the contact is
above a predefined amount of pressure that is greater than zero, then the device picks up the
first user interface object). For example, Figures 5C-5E show an example in which the
predefined intensity threshold is the light press intensity threshold (e.g., ITL) and the
predefined selection criteria are met because an intensity of contact 17110 is above the light
press intensity threshold while cursor 17108 is over thumbnail 17102-1. On the other hand,
the predefined selection criteria are not met in Figures 5F-5G, because contact 17110 does
not have an intensity above the light press intensity threshold (e.g., ITL) while cursor 17108 is
over thumbnail 17102-1. In some embodiments, the predefined intensity threshold is based
(17222) at least in part on an amount of change in intensity of the contact (e.g., if the
intensity of the contact increases by 50%, then pick up the first user interface object). For
example, Figures 5H-5J show an example in which the predefined selection criteria are met
because an intensity of contact 17110 increases from a baseline intensity I0 by more than
50% while cursor 17108 is over thumbnail 17102-1. On the other hand, the predefined
selection criteria are not met in Figures 5K-5L, because contact 17110 does not increase from
a baseline intensity I0 by more than 50% while cursor 17108 is over thumbnail 17102-1.
[00172]          In accordance with the determination that the contact meets (17224-Yes)
selection criteria for the first user interface object, the device moves the focus selector and the
first user interface object as described in greater detail below. In contrast, in accordance with
a determination that the contact does not (17224-No) meet the selection criteria for the first
user interface object, the device moves (17226) the focus selector in accordance with the
second movement of the contact without moving the first user interface object (e.g., the
device forgoes selecting/picking-up the first user interface object). For example, Figure 5F
shows cursor 17108 at respective location over thumbnail 17102-1, while Figure 5G shows
movement of contact 17110 along with corresponding movement of the focus selector to a
new location away from thumbnail 17102-1. However, because the selection criteria for
thumbnail 17102-1 were not met prior to detecting movement of contact 17110, thumbnail
 17102-1 remains at the first location in Figure 5G.
[00173]           In accordance with the determination that the contact meets (17224-Yes)
selection criteria for the first user interface object, the device moves (17228) the focus
selector and the first user interface object away from the first location in accordance with the
second movement of the contact (e.g., the device selects/picks-up the first user interface
                                                    53

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
object, as illustrated in Figures 5E and 5J, where thumbnail 17102-1 is moved in accordance
with movement of cursor 17108).
[00174]          In some embodiments, movement of the first user interface object (such as a
thumb or handle in a scrubber or a slider) is constrained (17230) to a predefined path in the
user interface, and moving the first user interface object includes moving the first user
interface object along the predefined path in accordance with a component of motion of the
focus selector that corresponds to an allowed direction of motion along the predefined path.
Examples of these embodiments are illustrated in the user interfaces shown in Figures 5S
5AA. Alternatively, in some embodiments, the first user interface object has a two
dimensional range of motion (17232), and moving the first user interface object includes
moving the first user interface object to a location at or adjacent to the focus selector on the
display. For example, the first user interface object is a document icon that can be moved
laterally on the display in a two dimensional plane and is not constrained to a predefined
path. Similar examples are illustrated in the user interfaces shown in Figures 5A-5R. In some
embodiments, the device displays (17234) a second user interface object at a second location
on the display while the first user interface object is displayed on the display (e.g., thumbnail
 17102-2 in Figure 5A). While continuing to detect (17236) the contact and moving the first
user interface object in accordance with movement of the focus selector, after detecting the
second movement of the contact, the device detects (17238) third movement of the contact
across the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to movement of the focus selector toward
the second location (e.g., to the second location). In response to detecting the third movement
of the contact (17240), the device moves (17242) the focus selector from a location remote
from the second user interface object (e.g., from the first location or a location proximate to
the first location) to the second location. In some embodiments, the second location is a point
or a region with a non-zero area, such as a hidden hit region for the second user interface
object. For example, in Figures 5N and 5Q, the device detects movement of contact 17110
and in response to detecting movement of contact 17110 downward on touch-sensitive
surface 451, the device moves cursor 17108 over a second user interface object (e.g.,
thumbnail 17102-2).
[001751          In response to detecting third movement of the contact, the device also
determines (17244) an intensity of contact on the touch-sensitive surface while the focus
selector is at the second location. After detecting the third movement of the contact, the
device detects (17246) fourth movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface that
                                                  54

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
corresponds to movement of the focus selector away from the second location. For example,
in Figures 5P and 5R, the device detects movement of contact 17110 and in response to
detecting movement of contact 17110 to the left on touch-sensitive surface 451, the device
moves cursor 17108 away from the location occupied by a second user interface object (e.g.,
thumbnail 17102-2) before detecting the third movement or the fourth movement.
[00176]          In some embodiments, after detecting the first movement and before detecting
the fourth movement, the device detects (17247) a decrease in intensity of the contact below
the predefined intensity threshold, and after detecting the decrease in intensity of the contact
below the predefined intensity threshold, the device continues to move the first user interface
object in accordance with movement of the focus selector (e.g., in Figure 5Q, contact 17110
has an intensity below ITL). For example, after "picking up" the first user interface object, the
user can lower the intensity of the contact without "dropping" the first user interface object,
so that the user will be able to "pick up" additional user interface objects (e.g., the second
user interface object) by increasing the intensity of the contact above the predefined intensity
threshold again over each additional user interface object. If the user has picked up several
user interface objects (e.g., the first user interface object and the second user interface object),
the user can lower the intensity of the contact without "dropping" the any of the user interface
objects, so that the user will be able to "pick up" additional user interface objects (e.g., the
second user interface object) by increasing the intensity of the contact above the predefined
intensity threshold again over each additional user interface object.
[001771          In response to detecting (17248) the fourth movement of the contact, the
device determines whether the contact meets selection criteria for the second user interface
object. The selection criteria for the second user interface object include that the contact
meets the predefined intensity threshold while the focus selector is at the second location.
[001781          In accordance with a determination that the contact does not (17252-No) meet
the selection criteria for the second user interface object, the device moves (17254) the focus
selector and the first user interface object in accordance with the fourth movement of the
contact without moving the second user interface object (e.g., the device forgoes
selection/fails to pick-up the second user interface object, as illustrated in Figure 5R, where
thumbnail 17102-2 is not moved in accordance with movement of cursor 17108). In some
embodiments, when a first user interface object is already selected and the device detects an
increase in intensity of the contact while the focus selector is over the second object, the
second object is picked up in addition to the first object. As such, the user can select and
                                                     55

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
move multiple objects with a single contact by moving the focus selector over a plurality of
different user interface objects and performing a press gesture that includes increasing the
intensity of the contact above the predefined intensity threshold while the focus selector is
over each of the user interface objects.
[001791          In accordance with a determination that the contact meets (17252-Yes)
selection criteria for the second user interface object, the device moves (17256) the focus
selector, the first user interface object, and the second user interface object away from the
second location in accordance with the fourth movement of the contact (e.g., the device
selects / picks-up the second user interface object and moves the second user interface object
along with the first user interface object, as illustrated in Figure 5P, where thumbnail 17102-2
is moved in accordance with movement of cursor 17108). In some embodiments, after
detecting the fourth movement of the contact, a representation of the first user interface
object and a representation of the second user interface object are displayed (17258) moving
on the display in accordance with movement of the focus selector (e.g., as illustrated in
Figure 5P). In some embodiments, after detecting the fourth movement of the contact, a
representation of a group of objects corresponding to the first user interface object and the
second user interface object are displayed (17260) moving on the display in accordance with
movement of the focus selector.
[001801          It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 6A-6E have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate that
the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., those listed in paragraph [0043]) are also
applicable in an analogous manner to method 17200 described above with respect to Figures
6A-6E. For example, the contacts, user interface objects, intensity thresholds, and focus
selectors described above with reference to method 17200 optionally have one or more of the
characteristics of the contacts, user interface objects, intensity thresholds, and focus selectors
described herein with reference to other methods described herein (e.g., those listed in
paragraph [0043]). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[001811          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 7 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 17300 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
                                                    56

  WO 2013/169877                                                              PCT/US2013/040101
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 7 are, optionally, combined or separated
into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments. Therefore,
the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation or further
definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[00182]          As shown in Figure 7, an electronic device 17300 includes a display unit
 17302 configured to display a user interface that includes a first user interface object at a first
location on the display unit, a touch-sensitive surface unit 17304 configured to detect
contacts, one or more sensor units 17306 configured to detect intensity of contacts with the
touch-sensitive surface unit 17304; and a processing unit 17308 coupled to the display unit
 17302, the touch-sensitive surface unit 17304 and the one or more sensor units 17306. In
some embodiments, the processing unit 17308 includes a display enabling unit 17310, a
detecting unit 17312, a determining unit 17313, a selecting unit 17314, and a moving unit
 17316.
[00183]          Processing unit 17308 is configured to detect first movement of the contact
(e.g., with the detecting unit 17312) across touch-sensitive surface unit 17304 that
corresponds to movement of a focus selector toward the first location. In response to
detecting the first movement of the contact, processing unit 17308 is configured to move
(e.g., with the moving unit 17316) the focus selector from a location remote from the first
user interface object to the first location, and determine (e.g., with the determining unit
 17313) an intensity of the contact on touch-sensitive surface unit 17304 while the focus
selector is at the first location. After detecting the first movement of the contact, processing
unit 17308 is configured to detect second movement of the contact (e.g., with the detecting
unit 17312) across the touch-sensitive surface unit 17304 that corresponds to movement of
the focus selector away from the first location. In response to detecting the second movement
of the contact, in accordance with a determination that the contact meets selection criteria for
the first user interface object, where the selection criteria for the first user interface object
include that the contact meets a predefined intensity threshold while the focus selector is at
the first location, processing unit 17308 is configured to move (e.g., with the moving unit
 17316) the focus selector and the first user interface object away from the first location in
accordance with the second movement of the contact. In response to detecting the second
movement of the contact, in accordance with a determination that the contact does not meet
                                                    57

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
the selection criteria for the first user interface object, processing unit 17308 is configured to
move (e.g., with the moving unit 17316) the focus selector in accordance with the second
movement of the contact without moving the first user interface object.
[00184]          In some embodiments, movement of the first user interface object is
constrained to a predefined path in the user interface, and moving the first user interface
object includes moving the first user interface object (e.g., with the moving unit 17316) along
the predefined path in accordance with a component of motion of the focus selector that
corresponds to an allowed direction of motion along the predefined path.
[001851          In some embodiments, the first user interface object has a two-dimensional
range of motion, and moving the first user interface object includes moving the first user
interface object (e.g., with the moving unit 17316) to a location at or adjacent to the focus
selector on the display unit.
[001861          In some embodiments, the predefined intensity threshold is based at least in
part on an amount of change in intensity of the contact.
[001871          In some embodiments, the predefined intensity threshold is based at least in
part on a magnitude of intensity of the contact.
[001881          In some embodiments, a second user interface object is displayed on display
unit 17302 at a second location on display unit 17302 while the first user interface object is
displayed on display unit 17302, and processing unit 17304 is configured to, while continuing
to detect the contact and moving the first user interface object in accordance with movement
of the focus selector and after detecting the second movement of the contact, detect third
movement of the contact (e.g., with the detecting unit 17312) across the touch-sensitive
surface unit 17304 that corresponds to movement of the focus selector toward the second
location (e.g., to the second location). In response to detecting the third movement of the
contact, processing unit 17304 is configured to move (e.g., with the moving unit 17316) the
focus selector from a location remote from the second user interface object to the second
location, and determine (e.g., with the determining unit 17313) an intensity of the contact on
the touch-sensitive surface unit 17304 while the focus selector is at the second location. After
detecting the third movement of the contact, processing unit 17304 is configured to detect
fourth movement of the contact (e.g., with the detecting unit 17312) across the touch
sensitive surface unit 17304 that corresponds to movement of the focus selector away from
the second location. In response to detecting the fourth movement of the contact, in
                                                     58

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
accordance with a determination that the contact meets selection criteria for the second user
interface object, where the selection criteria for the second user interface object include that
the contact meets the predefined intensity threshold while the focus selector is at the second
location, processing unit 17304 is configured to move (e.g., with the moving unit 17316) the
focus selector, the first user interface object, and the second user interface object away from
the second location in accordance with the fourth movement of the contact. In response to
detecting the fourth movement of the contact, in accordance with a determination that the
contact does not meet the selection criteria for the second user interface object, processing
unit 17304 is configured to move (e.g., with the moving unit 17316) the focus selector and
the first user interface object in accordance with the fourth movement of the contact without
moving the second user interface object.
[001891          In some embodiments, processing unit 17304 is further configured to, after
detecting the fourth movement of the contact, display (e.g., with the display enabling unit
 17310) a representation of the first user interface object and a representation of the second
user interface object moving on the display unit in accordance with movement of the focus
selector.
[00190]          In some embodiments, processing unit 17304 is further configured to, after
detecting the fourth movement of the contact, display (e.g., with the display enabling unit
 17310) a representation of a group of objects corresponding to the first user interface object
and the second user interface object moving on the display unit in accordance with movement
of the focus selector.
[00191]          In some embodiments, processing unit is further configured to, after detecting
the first movement and before detecting the fourth movement detect a decrease in intensity of
the contact (e.g., with the detecting unit 17312) below the predefined intensity threshold, and
after detecting the decrease in intensity of the contact below the predefined intensity
threshold, continuing to move (e.g., with the moving unit 17316) the first user interface
object in accordance with movement of the focus selector.
[00192]          The operations in the information processing methods described above are,
optionally implemented by running one or more functional modules in information
processing apparatus such as general purpose processors (e.g., as described above with
respect to Figures 1A and 3) or application specific chips.
                                                   59

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
[001931          The operations described above with reference to Figures 6A-6E are,
optionally, implemented by components depicted in Figures lA-lB or Figure 7. For example,
detection operations 17204 and 17212, moving operations 17210, 17226 and 17228, and
determining operation 17212 are, optionally, implemented by event sorter 170, event
recognizer 180, and event handler 190. Event monitor 171 in event sorter 170 detects a
contact on touch-sensitive display 112, and event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event
information to application 136-1. A respective event recognizer 180 of application 136-1
compares the event information to respective event definitions 186, and determines whether a
first contact at a first location on the touch-sensitive surface corresponds to a predefined
event or sub-event, such as selection of an object on a user interface. When a respective
predefined event or sub-event is detected, event recognizer 180 activates an event handler
 190 associated with the detection of the event or sub-event. Event handler 190 optionally
utilizes or calls data updater 176 or object updater 177 to update the application internal state
 192. In some embodiments, event handler 190 accesses a respective GUI updater 178 to
update what is displayed by the application. Similarly, it would be clear to a person having
ordinary skill in the art how other processes can be implemented based on the components
depicted in Figures lA-lB.
                                  Selecting User Interface Objects
[00194]           Many electronic devices have graphical user interfaces that display user
interface objects such as thumbnails, icons, folders, and thumb/handles in scrubbers and
slider bar on a display. Such user interface items generally represent either a file or a
directory (or sub-directory) corresponding to a collection of files. Often, a user of an
electronic device will want to select and move user interface objects on the display. For
example, a user will want to rearrange desktop items in a desktop environment/window
system. As another example, a user may want to select several user interface objects and add
the selected user interface object to a collection of user interface objects. Such operations
occur, for example, while using a desktop environment (e.g., adding files to a folder), or
between a desktop environment and an application (e.g., adding files from a desktop window
to a play list in a media player), or within an application (e.g., selecting and dragging user
interface items within a media player). As yet another example, a user may want to rearrange
the order of thumbnails corresponding to applications, or "apps" displayed on the display of a
portable multifunction device.
                                                    60

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
[001951          Some methods of selecting user interface objects on electronic devices with
touch-sensitive surfaces typically require performing a distinct selection operation on each of
a plurality of a user interface objects (e.g., activating a mouse button or placing a contact on a
touch-sensitive surface) to individually select the user interface objects. Typically, in such
embodiments, in order to perform a subsequent selection operation a user first ceases to select
a previously selected object (e.g., a previously selected user interface object is deselected
when the mouse button is deactivated or the contact is lifted off of the touch-sensitive
surface). Thus, in these examples, selection of a second user interface object (e.g., another
desktop item) requires a separate selection operation and consequently only one user interface
object is selected at a time. Alternatively, some methods enable a user to select multiple user
interface an area to select multiple user interface objects, however this method of selecting
objects does not enable a user to a specific set of user interface objects from a group of user
interface objects that are located in close proximity to each other. The embodiments
described below provide a more efficient, intuitive method, implemented on an electronic
device with a touch-sensitive surface, for determining whether to select a user interface
object, or forgo selecting a user interface object, based on an intensity of a contact with the
touch-sensitive surface. In some circumstances, multiple user interface objects are selected
using a single, continuous contact or, alternative, multiple distinct contacts on the touch
sensitive surface.
[00196]          Figures 8A-8DD illustrate exemplary user interfaces for selecting user
interface objects in accordance with some embodiments. The user interfaces in these figures
are used to illustrate the processes described below, including the processes in Figures 9A
9E. For figures that illustrate a contact with a touch-sensitive surface, an intensity diagram is
included that shows the current intensity of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface relative
to a plurality of intensity thresholds including an alternative-mode intensity threshold (e.g.,
"ITD") and a selection intensity threshold (e.g., "ITL").
[001971          In some embodiments, the device is portable multifunction device 100, the
display is touch-sensitive display system 112, and the touch-sensitive surface includes tactile
output generators 167 on the display (Figure 1A). For convenience of explanation, the
embodiments described with reference to Figures 8A-8DD and Figures 9A-9E will be
discussed with reference to display 450 and a separate touch-sensitive surface 451, however
analogous operations are, optionally, performed on a device with a touch-sensitive display
system 112 in response to detecting the contacts described in Figures 8A-8DD on the touch
                                                    61

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
sensitive display system 112 while displaying the user interfaces shown in Figures 8A-8DD
on the touch-sensitive display system 112; in such embodiments, the focus selector is,
optionally: a respective contact, a representative point corresponding to a contact (e.g., a
centroid of a respective contact or a point associated with a respective contact), or a centroid
of two or more contacts detected on the touch-sensitive display system 112, in place of cursor
 17408.
[00198]          Figure 8A illustrates an exemplary user interface for selecting user interface
objects in accordance with some embodiments. Figure 8A illustrates an exemplary user
interface 17400. User interface 17400 is displayed on display 450 and includes user interface
objects (e.g., thumbnails 17402, folder 17404) as well as a focus selector (e.g., cursor 17408
). Figure 8B illustrates the device detecting movement of contact 17406 across touch
sensitive surface 451 and in response moving cursor 17408 across the display from a location
remote from thumbnail 17402-1 in Figure 8A to a location over thumbnail 17402-1 in Figure
8B.
[00199]          Figures 8B-8F illustrate an example user interface for selecting user interface
objects in a first selection mode in accordance with some embodiments. At the outset of
Figure 8B, user interface 17400 is in a first selection mode (sometimes referred to as a
"single object selection mode") with properties described below. Furthermore, in Figures 8B
8F, contact 17406 represents a continuously detected (e.g., unbroken) contact with touch
sensitive surface 451, (e.g., the contact is continuously detected between the beginning of the
first press input and the end of the second press input).
[00200]          In some embodiments, contact 17406 controls the position of cursor 17408.
For example, movement of contact 17406 across touch-sensitive surface 451 (illustrated by
the arrow attached to contact 17406, Figure 8B) causes cursor 17408 to move
correspondingly toward, or in some cases to, a location of thumbnail 17402-1. It should be
appreciated that the location of thumbnail 17402-1 is, optionally, defined as a point (e.g., a
corner of the thumbnail, or the geometric center of mass), or by a non-zero area, such as any
location within the boundary of thumbnail 17402 or a hidden hit region for thumbnail 17402
 1. In some embodiments, the hidden hit region is larger than thumbnail 17402-1. In some
implantations, the hidden hit region is "shifted" relative to the boundary of thumbnail 17402
 1. Accordingly, in some embodiments, cursor 17408 is considered to be "over" thumbnail
 17402-1 whenever cursor 17408 is displayed within the boundary defining the location of
thumbnail 17402-1. Likewise, the location of other user interface objects is similarly defined.
                                                   62

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
Regardless of the definition of the location of a user interface object, a press input detected
while a focus selector is over a user interface object is sometimes referred to as a "press input
on a respective user interface object," or the like.
[00201]          Figure 8C shows detection of a "light press input," e.g., a press input that
corresponds to an increase in intensity of contact 17410 above a selection intensity threshold
(e.g., "ITL") but below an alternative-mode intensity threshold (e.g., ITD). Thumbnail 17402
 1 is selected in response to the light press being detected while cursor 17408 is over
thumbnail 17402-1, as shown in Figure 8D. As shown in Figures 8D-8E, when the device is
in a single object selection mode and intensity of contact 17406 drops below the ITL,
thumbnail 17402-1 is deselected or "dropped." Because thumbnail 17402-1 is no longer
selected in Figure 8E, subsequent movement of contact 17406 across touch-sensitive surface
451 moves cursor 17408 to the position without moving thumbnail 17402-1, as shown in
Figure 8F.
[00202]          Figures 8G-80 illustrate an example user interface for selecting user interface
objects in an alternative mode (sometimes referred to as a "select multiple objects" mode) in
accordance with some embodiments. For ease of explanation, embodiments in Figures 8G-80
are described with reference to a continuous contact 17410. At the outset of Figure 8G, user
interface 17400 is in the selection mode, as described above. Figures 8G and 8H are
analogous to Figures 8B and 8C, respectively, where the device moves cursor 17408 across
the display from a location remote from thumbnail 17402-1 in Figure 8A to a location over
thumbnail 17402-1 in Figure 8G in response to detecting movement of contact 17410 across
touch-sensitive surface 451, with the difference that the press input in Figures 8G-8H
corresponds to an increase in intensity of contact 17410 above an alternative-mode intensity
threshold (e.g., "ITD"). As a result, user interface 17400 enters an alternative mode (e.g., the
select multiple objects mode). In some embodiments, when user interface 17400 is in the
alternative mode, a subsequent decrease of intensity contact 17410 below ITL does not result
in thumbnail 17402-1 being dropped. For example, in Figure 81, thumbnail 17402-1
continues to be selected, even though the intensity of contact 17410 has decreased below ITL.
Subsequent movement of contact 17410 across touch-sensitive surface 451 results in
movement of cursor 17408 shown in Figure 8J, accompanied by movement of thumbnail
 17402-1. Figure 8J also shows an example of the device displaying a residual image 17416
(e.g., 17416-1) of thumbnail 17402-1 on display 450.
                                                   63

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
[002031          Figures 8K-8L illustrate the device detecting subsequent movement contact
 17410 on touch-sensitive surface 451, and, in response, moving cursor 17408 from a location
remote from thumbnail 17402-2 as shown in Figure 8K to a location over thumbnail 17402-2
as shown in Figure 8L. In Figure 8M, the device detects a subsequent (e.g., second) press
input corresponding to an increase in intensity above the selection threshold (e.g., ITL) while
cursor 17408 is over a thumbnail 17402-2 and, in response, the device selects thumbnail
 17402-2 without dropping thumbnail 17402-1. In some embodiments, the first press input and
the second press input are made by a continuously detected (unbroken) contact on the touch
sensitive surface.
[00204]         After selecting thumbnail 17402-2, while the device is in the multiple object
selection mode, the device maintains selection of the selected thumbnails 17402-2 and
 17402-1, even when the intensity of contact 17410 decreases below the selection intensity
threshold (e.g., "ITL"). In response to detecting movement of contact 17410 in Figure 80, the
device moves the selected thumbnails away from the location previously occupied by
thumbnail 17402-2, as shown in Figure 80. Figures 8N-80 are analogous to Figures 81-8J
with the difference that, because both thumbnail 17402-1 and thumbnail 17402-2 are
selected, movement of cursor 17408 is accompanied by both thumbnails. A thumbnail
residual 17416-2 is also displayed in Figure 80, corresponding to a residual of thumbnail
 17402-2. Residual images 17416 have additional properties. In some embodiments, after a
user interface object is selected and a residual image of the user interface object is displayed,
a press input is detected on the residual image (e.g., contact 17410 increases from an intensity
below ITL to an intensity above ITL while cursor 17408 is over a respective residual image).
In some embodiments, in response to detecting the press input on a respective residual image,
the user interface object corresponding to the respective residual image is deselected. For
example, when thumbnails 17402-1 and 17402-2 are selected, a press input on residual image
 17416-1 (e.g., an increase in intensity of contact 17410 from an intensity below ITL to an
intensity above ITL while cursor 17408 is over residual image 17416-1) will cause the device
to deselect thumbnail 17402-1 and maintain selection of thumbnail 17402-2. In some
embodiments, an animation of thumbnail 17402-1 "flying back" and replacing residual image
 17416-1 is performed.
[002051         In some embodiments, in response to detecting liftoff of a continuous contact
(e.g., contact 17410, Figures 8G-80) previously selected user interface objects (e.g.,
thumbnail 17402-1 and thumbnail 17402-2, Figure 80) are dropped in the user interface, as
                                                   64

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
shown in Figure 8P. In some embodiments, when previously selected user interface objects
are dropped, the corresponding residual images (e.g., thumbnail residuals 17416) are no
longer displayed and the user interface objects are displayed at a location proximate to a
location of the cursor 17408 when the liftoff of contact 17410 was detected, as shown in
Figure 8P.
[00206]          Figures 8G-8N and 8Q-8T illustrate selection of a third user interface object
that is representative of a collection of user interface objects (e.g., a folder, sub-directory,
photo album, playlist, etc.). Following Figures 8G-8N, which have already been described,
Figure 8Q illustrates movement of contact 17410 on touch-sensitive surface 451 that
corresponds to movement of cursor 17408 to location over does folder 17404, after
thumbnails 17402-1 and 17402-2 have been selected. In response to detection of a light press
input (e.g., an increase in intensity of contact 17410 from an intensity below ITL to an
intensity between ITL and ITD, as shown in Figures 8Q-8R), the device selects folder 17404
without deselecting either of the thumbnails, as illustrated in Figure 8R. Figures 8S-8T
illustrate subsequent motion of the cursor accompanied by the selected thumbnails and of
folder in response to detecting movement of contact 17410 on the touch-sensitive surface
451.
[002071          In contrast, Figures 8U-8X also follow Figures 8G-8N, but in this case, the
detected press input is a deep press input (e.g., an increase in intensity of contact 17410 from
an intensity below ITD to an intensity above ITD, as shown in Figures 8U-8V). As a result, of
detecting a deep press input instead of a light press input, the device displays a user interface
(e.g., an open folder) with a region for adding thumbnails 17402-1 and 17402-2 to a
collection of thumbnails. In Figure 8W, thumbnails 17402-1 and 17402-1 are deselected in
response to detecting liftoff of contact 17410, and, in Figure 8W, the two thumbnails are
added to the contents of the opened docss" folder because cursor 17408 is over the
representation of the does folder 17404 when liftoff of contact 17410 is detected. The docss"
folder, for example, already contains other thumbnails, such as thumbnail 17402-4 and
 17402-5. Figures 8W-8X illustrate an animation of thumbnails 17402-1 and 17402-2 moving
from a location proximate to cursor 17408 to a location in an arrangement of thumbnail
 17402 in the representation of does folder. The exemplary user interfaces in Figures 8Q-8X
therefore illustrate an example of an advantage of distinguishing between press inputs that
reach different intensity thresholds (e.g., ITL and ITD), where the different press inputs can be
                                                   65

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
used to provide an intuitive user interface that enables a user to either add a folder to a
selection or open a folder to add selected items to the folder.
[002081         Figures 8Y-8DD illustrate embodiments of a user interface 17420 in which
multiple, distinct contacts are used to selected user interface objects. For example, a first
contact ceases to be detected prior to detecting a second contact. In some embodiments, the
first contact and the second contact are made by the same finger at different times. In some
embodiments (e.g., illustrated in Figures 8Y-8DD), the first press input is a "deep press"
input that corresponds to an increase in intensity of a contact to an alternative-mode intensity
threshold (e.g., "ITD") that is higher than a selection intensity threshold (e.g., "ITL"), and in
response to detecting the first press input, the device enters a "select multiple objects" mode
where sequential press inputs that have an intensity at or above the selection intensity
threshold (e.g., "ITL") cause the device to select multiple user interface objects
simultaneously that correspond to the sequential press inputs.
[00209]         Figure 8Y illustrates a plurality of user interface objects (e.g., thumbnails
 17418) representing media objects (e.g., pictures) in a media player displaying, for example,
a photo album (e.g., "Family Photo Album"). Users of such a media player may wish to
select several thumbnails at a time, for example, to add the selected pictures to a different
album and/or delete unwanted pictures. Figure 8Z shows a contact 17412 corresponding to a
press input while cursor 17411 is over thumbnail 17418-1. The press input correspond to an
increase in intensity of contact 17412 above an alternative-mode intensity threshold (e.g.,
"ITD").  In response to detecting the press input, the device enters an alternate mode for
selecting user interface objects and selects user interface object 17418-1.
[00210]         Figure 8AA shows liftoff of contact 17412 (e.g., contact 17412 is no longer
detected on touch-sensitive surface 451). In Figure 8AA, thumbnail 17418-1 remains selected
after detecting liftoff, allowing additional user interface items to be selected. Figure 8AA
shows the device detecting movement of contact 17414 and, in response to detecting the
movement of contact 17414, moving cursor 17411 from the location over thumbnail 17418-1
in Figure 8Z to a position over thumbnail 17418-7 in Figure 8AA. While cursor 17411 is over
thumbnail 17418-7 in Figures 8AA-8BB, the device detects a press input corresponding to an
increase in intensity of contact 17414, from an intensity below a selection intensity threshold
(e.g., "ITL") to an intensity above the selection intensity threshold (e.g., "ITL"), as shown in
Figure 8BB. In response to detecting the press input in Figure 8BB, the device selects
thumbnail 17418-7 in addition to thumbnail 17418-1.
                                                   66

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
[00211]         Figure 8CC shows detection of liftoff of contact 17414. In Figure 8CC, both
thumbnail 17418-1 and thumbnail 17418-7 remain selected in the illustrated embodiment,
even though liftoff of contact 17414 has been detected. Figure 8DD-8EE illustrate detection
of a press input that does not correspond to a selectable user interface object (e.g., while the
focus selector is at a location on the display that is outside of the plurality of user interface
objects). In Figure 8CC, the device detects movement of contact 17416 across touch-sensitive
surface 451 and, in response moves cursor 17411 across the touch-sensitive surface to a
location on the display that does not correspond to any of the plurality of thumbnails 17418.
While cursor 17411 is at a location that does not correspond to any of the plurality of
thumbnails 17418, the device detects a press input corresponding ton contact 17416 (e.g., an
increase in intensity of contact 17416 from an intensity below ITL to an intensity between ITL
and ITD) and in response to detecting the press input in Figure 8DD, the device cancels the
selection and exits the "select multiple objects" or "alternative" mode.
[00212]         Figures 9A-9E are flow diagrams illustrating a method 17500 of selecting user
interface objects in accordance with some embodiments. The method 17500 is performed at
an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device 100, Figure
 1A) with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the display is a touch
screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on the display. In some embodiments, the
display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. Some operations in method 17500 are,
optionally, combined and/or the order of some operations is, optionally, changed.
[00213]         As described below, the method 17500 provides an intuitive way to selecting
user interface objects. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when selecting user
interface objects, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery
operated electronic devices, enabling a user to select user interface objects faster and more
efficiently conserves power and increases the time between battery charges.
[00214]         The device displays (17502) on a display, a plurality of user interface objects,
including a first user interface object and a second user interface object (e.g., thumbnails
 17402-1 and 17402-2, Figure 8A and thumbnails 17418-1 and 17418-7 in Figure 8Y). In
some embodiments, the device is configured to detect (17504) a range of contact intensity
values and compare the detected intensity values against a plurality of different intensity
thresholds, and the plurality of different intensity thresholds includes an alternative-mode
intensity threshold (e.g., "deep press" threshold ITD) that is used by the device to transition
from a first selection mode (e.g., a "single object selection" mode) to a second selection mode
                                                   67

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
(e.g., a "multiple object selection" mode) and a selection intensity threshold (e.g., "light
press" threshold ITL) that is used by the device to differentiate between inputs that correspond
to movement of the focus selector on the display (e.g., inputs with an intensity between ITo
and ITL) and inputs that correspond to selection of a user interface object at a location on the
display at or near a location of the focus selector (e.g., inputs with an intensity between ITL
and ITD), where the selection intensity threshold is different from (e.g., lower than) the
alternative-mode intensity threshold. In some embodiments, during a normal mode of
operation, when the device detects an increase in intensity of a contact above the selection
intensity threshold while the focus selector is over a user interface object, the device selects
the user interface object and when the device detects a decrease in intensity of the contact
below the selection intensity threshold (or a predefined amount less than the selection
intensity threshold) the device drops the object or performs an operation associated with
activating the object (e.g., the device stops dragging an object that was being moved in
accordance with movement of the focus selector or launches an application associated with
the object if the object was not moved after detecting the increase in intensity of the contact).
[002151          While displaying the plurality of user interface objects, the device detects
(17510) a first press input that corresponds to an increase in intensity of a contact above a
first intensity threshold on the touch-sensitive surface while a focus selector is over the first
user interface object. In response to detecting the first press input, the device selects (17512)
the first user interface object, (e.g., selection of thumbnail 17402-1 in Figure 8D and selection
of thumbnail 17418-1 in Figure 8Z).
[002161          After selecting the first user interface object (17514), the device detects
(17516) a second press input that corresponds to an increase in intensity of a contact above a
second intensity threshold on the touch-sensitive surface while the focus selector is over the
second user interface object. In some embodiments, the first press input corresponds (17518)
to a first contact on the touch-sensitive surface, and the second press input corresponds to a
second contact on the touch-sensitive surface different from the first contact (e.g., the first
contact ceases to be detected prior to detecting the second press input). In some
embodiments, the first contact and the second contact are made by the same finger at
different times, as shown in Figures 8Y-8DD. In some embodiments, the first press input is a
"deep press" input that corresponds to an increase in intensity of a contact to an intensity
threshold (e.g., "ITD") that is higher than a selection intensity threshold (e.g., "ITL"), and in
response to detecting the first press input, the device enters a "select multiple objects" mode
                                                     68

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
where sequential press inputs that have an intensity at or above the selection intensity
threshold cause the device to select multiple user interface objects simultaneously that
correspond to the sequential press inputs. Alternatively, the first press input and the second
press input are portions of a single gesture that includes (17520) a continuously detected
contact on the touch-sensitive surface, as shown in Figures 8A-8X. For example, the contact
is continuously detected between the beginning of the first press input and the end of the
second press input. For example in Figures 8B-8F, the device detects various movements of
contact 17406 across touch-sensitive surface 451 as well as various press inputs performed
without detecting liftoff of contact 17406 from touch-sensitive surface 451. Similarly in
Figures 8G-8X, the device detects various movements of contact 17410 across touch
sensitive surface 451 as well as various press inputs performed without detecting liftoff of
contact 17410 from touch-sensitive surface 451. In contrast, in Figures 8Y-8DD, the device
detects multiple, distinct contacts (e.g., 17412, 17414 and 17416) instead of a continuous
contact when selecting multiple user interface objects.
[002171         In some embodiments, the first press input and the second press input are
made by a continuously detected (unbroken) contact on the touch-sensitive surface. In some
embodiments, the gesture includes (17522) an intermediate portion (e.g., movement of
contact 17410 in Figures 8J-8L) between the first press input and the second press input that
includes movement of the continuously detected contact corresponding to movement of the
focus selector from the first user interface object to the second user interface object (e.g.,
while the focus selector is at the first user interface object, the user selects the first user
interface object, then drags the focus selector across the display from the first user interface
object to the second user interface object and selects the second user interface object as part
of one continuous gesture).
[00218]         Regardless of whether a single contact or multiple contacts are used, in some
embodiments, as shown in Figures 8A-8X, and, separately, in Figures 8Y-8DD, the first
intensity threshold is (17524) the alternative-mode intensity threshold (e.g., "ITD"), and the
second intensity threshold is the selection intensity threshold (e.g., "ITL"). In some
embodiments, the first press input is a "deep press" input that corresponds to an increase in
intensity of a contact to an intensity threshold (e.g., "ITD") that is higher than a selection
intensity threshold (e.g., "ITL"), and in response to detecting the first press input, the device
enters a "select multiple objects" mode where sequential press inputs that have an intensity at
or above the light press intensity threshold cause the device to select multiple user interface
                                                    69

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
objects simultaneously that correspond to the sequential press inputs, as shown in Figures
8G-8X. In the "select multiple objects" mode, the focus selector is moved sequentially over
the user interface objects and, while the focus selector is over a respective user interface
object, the intensity of the contact is increased above the selection intensity threshold in order
to select the respective user interface object and then decreased below the selection intensity
threshold while maintaining selection of the respective user interface object so that a next
user interface object can be selected (e.g., a first deep press puts the device into a multiple
select mode and subsequent presses can be to a lower threshold, such as a light press input
threshold).
[00219]          Alternatively, in some embodiments, the first intensity threshold is (17526) the
alternative-mode intensity threshold (e.g., "ITD"), and the second intensity threshold is the
alternative-mode intensity threshold (e.g., "ITD). Thus, in some embodiments, the second
intensity threshold is the same as the first intensity threshold. For example, in some
embodiments, the device enters the alternative mode in response to detecting a deep press
input (e.g., an input including an increase in intensity of a contact from an intensity below
ITD  to an intensity above ITD) during selection of a first user interface object, and the device
selects a second (or third, fourth, etc.) user interface object in response to detecting other
deep press inputs. In some embodiments, the device enters the alternative mode in response
to detecting a light press input (e.g., an input including an increase in intensity of a contact
from an intensity below ITL to an intensity above ITL) during selection of a first user interface
object and the device selects a second (or third, fourth, etc.) user interface object in response
to detecting other light press inputs.
[00220]          In response to detecting the second press input, the device selects (17528) the
second user interface object and maintains selection of the first user interface object, as
shown, for example, in Figures 8L-80, where the device selects thumbnail 17402-2 in
response to detecting an increase in intensity of contact 17410 from an intensity below ITL to
an intensity above ITL. In some embodiments, also shown in Figures 8L-80, after selecting
(17530) the first user interface object the device displays a first residual image (e.g., residual
image 17416-1 in Figures 8J-80) at the original location of the first user interface object, and
after selecting the second user interface object the device displays a second residual image
(e.g., residual image 17416-2 in Figure 80) at the original location of the second user
interface object. In some embodiments, the residual images remain in place even while the
focus selector (and, optionally, representations of the user interface objects) are moved on the
                                                    70

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
display until the user interface objects are moved to a different location in the user interface
(e.g., as shown in Figure 8P).
[00221]          In some embodiments, after (17532) displaying the first residual image and the
second residual image the device detects (17534) an end of selection of the first user interface
object and the second user interface object. For example, the device detects an invalid drop of
the selected user interface objects such as liftoff (or deep press/double tap) of the contact
while the focus selector is over a region of the display that the selected objects cannot be
placed in. In response to detecting the end of selection of the first user interface object and
the second user interface object, the device displays (17536) an animation of a representation
of the first user interface object moving back to the first residual image and displaying an
animation of a representation of the second user interface object moving back to the second
residual image. For example, in Figure 80, when the device detects a valid drop operation,
thumbnails 17402-1 and 17402-2 are dropped at a location proximate to cursor 17408, as
shown in Figure 8P. In contrast, in some embodiments, if the device detected an invalid drop
operation in Figure 80, the device would display an animation of thumbnail 17402-1 and
 17402-2 moving back to residual images 17416-1 and 17416-2, to return to the state of the
user interface shown in Figure 8F.
[00222]          In some embodiments, the device detects (17538) a press input on a respective
residual image (e.g., the device detects an increase in intensity of a contact corresponding to
cursor 17408 above ITL while the cursor is over the respective residual image). In response to
detecting the press input on the respective residual image, the device deselects (17540) a user
interface object corresponding to the respective residual image (e.g., deselect the first user
interface object if the respective residual image is the first residual image and deselect the
second user interface object if the respective residual image is the second residual image). In
some embodiments, after the user interface object is deselected, the user interface object is
displayed at its original location and the representation of the user interface object that was
previously moving in accordance with movement of the focus selector and the respective
residual image cease to be displayed.
[00223]          In some embodiments, after selecting the first user interface object, the device
displays (17542) a representation of the first user interface object proximate to the focus
selector, and, after selecting the second user interface object, the device displays a
representation of the second user interface object proximate to the focus selector (e.g.,
representations of a pile of photos follow cursor/contact around display). Examples of
                                                  71

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
representations of user interface objects proximate to the focus selector include the "stack" or
"pile" of user interface objects shown in, for example, Figure 80 representing thumbnails
 17402-1 and 17402-2.
[00224]         In some embodiments, after selecting the first user interface object, the
devices changes (17544) display of the first user interface object to provide a visual
indication that the first user interface object has been selected (e.g., the border of thumbnail
 17418-1 changes between Figure 8Y and Figure 8Z to show that thumbnail 17418-1 has been
selected), and after selecting the second user interface object, the device changes display of
the second user interface object to provide a visual indication that the second user interface
object has been selected (e.g., the border of thumbnail 17418-7 changes between Figure 8AA
and Figure 8BB to show that thumbnail 17418-7 has been selected). As one example,
multiple thumbnails are simultaneously popped up off of the page (e.g., using a drop shadow
or pseudo three dimensional effect) to provide a visual indication that user interface objects
corresponding to the popped up images have been selected. As another example, residual
images of thumbnails are displayed to provide a visual indication that user interface objects
corresponding to the residual images have been selected.
[002251         In some embodiments, after (17546) selecting the first user interface object
and the second user interface object, the device detects (17548) liftoff of the second contact.
After detecting liftoff of the second contact, the device detects (17550) a third press input
corresponding to a third contact. In response to detecting the third press input, the device
deselects (17552) the first user interface object and the second user interface object (e.g., in
Figure 8DD, in response to detecting a contact 17416 that does not correspond to a selectable
user interface object 17418, the device cancels the selection and exits the "select multiple
objects" mode).
[00226]         In some embodiments, the device detects (17554) a third press input that
includes an increase in intensity of a contact above the alternative-mode intensity threshold
(e.g., while the focus selector is at a location on the display that is outside of the plurality of
user interface objects). In response to detecting the third press input, the device deselects
(17556) the first user interface object and the second user interface object. In some
embodiments, the first and second user interface objects are deselected if the increase in
intensity is detected while the focus selector is over a portion of the user interface that does
not include any selectable user interface objects, whereas if the increase in intensity is
detected while the focus selector is over a third user interface object that is selectable, the
                                                   72

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
third user interface object is selected in addition to the previously selected first and second
user interface objects. For example, if the device were to detect an deep press input in Figure
8DD while cursor 17411 is over thumbnail 17418-2 instead of over a portion of the user
interface that does not include any of the thumbnails, then thumbnail 17418-2 would be
selected in addition to thumbnails 17418-1 and 17418-7 instead of deselecting thumbnails
 17418-1 and 17418-7, as shown in Figure 8DD.
[002271          In some embodiments, the device detects (17558) liftoff of the continuously
detected contact. In response to detecting liftoff of the continuously detected contact, the
device deselects (17560) the first user interface object and the second user interface object
(e.g., simultaneous selection of the multiple user interface object is maintained until the
contact used to select the user interface objects is lifted off of the touch-sensitive surface), as
shown in Figure 8P, where the device deselects thumbnails 17402-1 and 17402-2 in response
to detecting liftoff of contact 17410 from the touch-sensitive surface 451.
[00228]          In some embodiments, the plurality of user interface objects includes (17562)
a third user interface object that is representative of a collection of user interface objects (e.g.,
a folder icon that is representative of a directory of files, such as docss" folder 17404 in
Figure 8A). After detecting selection of the first user interface object and the second user
interface object (17564), the device detects (17566) a third press input that corresponds to an
increase in intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface while a focus selector is over
the third user interface object. In some of these embodiments, in response (17568) to
detecting the third press input, in accordance with a determination that the third press input
includes an increase in intensity above the first intensity threshold (for example, contact
 17410 has an intensity above ITD as shown in 174U), the device displays (17570) a user
interface with a region for adding the first user interface object and second user interface
object to the collection of user interface objects represented by the third user interface object
(e.g., opening the file in a file manager program, for example, as shown in Figures 8V-8X),
and in accordance with a determination that the third press input includes an increase in
intensity to a maximum intensity that is above the second intensity threshold (e.g., "ITL") and
below the first intensity threshold (e.g., "ITD") , the device selects (17572) the third user
interface object in addition to the first user interface object and the second user interface
object (e.g., in response to detecting the press input in Figure 8S, the device picks up the
folder icon, as shown in Figures 8S-8T). In some embodiments, if the increase in intensity of
                                                    73

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
the contact is below the second intensity threshold (e.g., "ITL"), the device forgoes
performing an operation associated with the third user interface object.
[00229]          It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 9A-9E have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate that
the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., those listed in paragraph [0043]) are also
applicable in an analogous manner to method 17500 described above with respect to Figures
9A-9E. For example, the contacts, press inputs, user interface objects, intensity thresholds,
focus selectors described above with reference to method 17500 optionally have one or more
of the characteristics of the contacts, press inputs, user interface objects, intensity thresholds,
focus selectors described herein with reference to other methods described herein (e.g., those
listed in paragraph [0043]). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[002301          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 10 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 17600 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 10 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments.
Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation
or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[002311          As shown in Figure 10, an electronic device 17600 includes a display unit
 17602 configured to display a graphic user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit 17604
configured to receive contacts, one or more sensor units 17606 configured to detect intensity
of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit 17604; and a processing unit 17608 coupled
to the display unit 17602, the touch-sensitive surface unit 17604 and the one or more sensor
units 17606. In some embodiments, the processing unit 17608 includes a detecting unit
 17610, a display enabling unit 17612, and a selecting unit 17614.
[00232]          Display unit 17602 is configured to display a plurality of user interface
objects, including a first user interface object and a second user interface object. Processing
                                                   74

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
unit 17608 is configured to detect a first press input (e.g., with the detecting unit 17610) that
corresponds to an increase in intensity of a contact above a first intensity threshold on the
touch-sensitive surface unit 17604 while a focus selector is over the first user interface object.
In response to detection of the first press input, processing unit 17608 is configured to select
the first user interface object (e.g., with the selecting unit 17614), and after selecting the first
user interface object, detect a second press input (e.g., with the detecting unit 17610) that
corresponds to an increase in intensity of a contact above a second intensity threshold on the
touch-sensitive surface unit 17604 while the focus selector is over the second user interface
object. In response to detection of the second press input, processing unit 17608 is configured
to select the second user interface object (e.g., with the selecting unit 17614) and maintaining
selection of the first user interface object.
[00233]          In some embodiments, the first press input corresponds to a first contact on the
touch-sensitive surface unit, and the second press input corresponds to a second contact on
the touch-sensitive surface unit different from the first contact.
[00234]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 17608 is further configured to, after
selecting the first user interface object and the second user interface object, detect liftoff of
the second contact. After detecting liftoff of the second contact, processing unit 17608 is
further configured to detect a third press input (e.g., with the detecting unit 17610)
corresponding to a third contact; and, in response to detecting the third press input, deselect
the first user interface object and the second user interface object (e.g., with the selecting unit
 17614).
[002351          In some embodiments, the first press input and the second press input are
portions of a single gesture that includes a continuously detected contact on the touch
sensitive surface unit 17604.
[00236]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 17608 is further configured to, after
selecting the first user interface object and the second user interface object, detect liftoff (e.g.,
with the detecting unit 17610) of the continuously detected contact; and in response to
detecting liftoff of the continuously detected contact, deselect the first user interface object
and the second user interface object (e.g., with the selecting unit 17614).
[002371          In some embodiments, the first press input and the second press input are
portions of a single gesture that includes a continuously detected contact on the touch
sensitive surface unit; and the gesture includes an intermediate portion between the first press
                                                    75

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
input and the second press input that includes movement of the continuously detected contact
corresponding to movement of the focus selector from the first user interface object to the
second user interface object.
[002381         In some embodiments, the processing unit 17608 is configured to detect a
range of contact intensity values and compare the detected intensity values against a plurality
of different intensity thresholds. The plurality of different intensity thresholds include an
alternative-mode intensity threshold that is used by the processing unit 17608 to transition
from a first selection mode to a second selection mode; and a selection intensity threshold
that is used by the processing unit 17608 to differentiate between inputs that correspond to
movement of the focus selector on the display unit 17602 (and inputs that correspond to
selection of a user interface object at a location on the display unit 17602 at or near a location
of the focus selector, where the selection intensity threshold is different from the alternative
mode intensity threshold.
[002391         In some embodiments, processing unit 17608 is further configured to, after
selecting the first user interface object and the second user interface object, detect a third
press input (e.g., with the detecting unit 17610) that includes an increase in intensity of a
contact above the alternative-mode intensity threshold ; and in response to detecting the third
press input, deselect the first user interface object and the second user interface object (e.g.,
with the selecting unit 17614).
[00240]         In some embodiments, the first intensity threshold is the alternative-mode
intensity threshold, and the second intensity threshold is the alternative-mode intensity
threshold.
[00241]         In some embodiments, the first intensity threshold is the alternative-mode
intensity threshold, and the second intensity threshold is the selection intensity threshold.
[00242]         In some embodiments, the plurality of user interface objects includes a third
user interface object that is representative of a collection of user interface objects, and the
processing unit 17608 is further configured to, after selecting the second user interface object,
detect (e.g., with the detecting unit 17610) a third press input that corresponds to an increase
in intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 17604 while a focus selector is
over the third user interface object. The processing unit 17608 is further configured to, in
response to detecting the third press input, in accordance with a determination that the third
press input includes an increase in intensity above the first intensity threshold, display a user
                                                   76

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
interface (e.g., with the display enabling unit 17612) with a region for adding the first user
interface object and second user interface object to the collection of user interface objects
represented by the third user interface object and, in accordance with a determination that the
third press input includes an increase in intensity to a maximum intensity that is above the
second intensity threshold and below the first intensity threshold, select the third user
interface object (e.g., with the selecting unit 17614) in addition to the first user interface
object and the second user interface object.
[002431          In some embodiments, the processing unit 17608 is further configured to, after
selecting the first user interface object, display a first residual image (e.g., with the display
enabling unit 17612) at the original location of the first user interface object; and after
selecting the second user interface object, display a second residual image (e.g., with the
display enabling unit 17612) at the original location of the second user interface object.
[00244]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 17608 is further configured to, after
displaying the first residual image and the second residual image, detect (e.g., with the
detecting unit 17610) an end of selection of the first user interface object and the second user
interface object and in response to detecting the end of selection of the first user interface
object and the second user interface object, display an animation (e.g., with the display
enabling unit 17612) of a representation of the first user interface object moving back to the
first residual image and display an animation (e.g., with the display enabling unit 17612) of a
representation of the second user interface object moving back to the second residual image.
[002451          In some embodiments, the processing unit 17608 is further configured to, after
displaying the first residual image and the second residual image, detect a press input (e.g.,
with the detecting unit 17610) on a respective residual image, and, in response to detecting
the press input on the respective residual image, deselect a user interface object (e.g., with the
selecting unit 17614) corresponding to the respective residual image.
[00246]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 17608 is further configured to, after
selecting the first user interface object, display a representation of the first user interface
object (e.g., with the display enabling unit 17612) proximate to the focus selector; and, after
selecting the second user interface object, display a representation of the second user
interface object (e.g., with the display enabling unit 17612) proximate to the focus selector.
[002471          In some embodiments, processing unit 17608 is further configured to, after
selecting the first user interface object, change display of the first user interface object (e.g.,
                                                   77

  WO 2013/169877                                                           PCT/US2013/040101
with the display enabling unit 17612) to provide a visual indication that the first user
interface object has been selected; and, after selecting the second user interface object,
change display of the second user interface object (e.g., with the display enabling unit 17612)
to provide a visual indication that the second user interface object has been selected.
[00248]          The operations in the information processing methods described above are,
optionally implemented by running one or more functional modules in information
processing apparatus such as general purpose processors (e.g., as described above with
respect to Figures 1A and 3) or application specific chips.
[00249]          The operations described above with reference to Figures 9A-9E are,
optionally, implemented by components depicted in Figures lA-lB or Figure 10. For
example, detection operations 17510 and 17512, and selection operations 17512 and 17528,
and deselecting operation 17540 are, optionally, implemented by event sorter 170, event
recognizer 180, and event handler 190. Event monitor 171 in event sorter 170 detects a
contact on touch-sensitive display 112, and event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event
information to application 136-1. A respective event recognizer 180 of application 136-1
compares the event information to respective event definitions 186, and determines whether a
first contact at a first location on the touch-sensitive surface corresponds to a predefined
event or sub-event, such as selection of an object on a user interface. When a respective
predefined event or sub-event is detected, event recognizer 180 activates an event handler
 190 associated with the detection of the event or sub-event. Event handler 190 optionally
utilizes or calls data updater 176 or object updater 177 to update the application internal state
 192. In some embodiments, event handler 190 accesses a respective GUI updater 178 to
update what is displayed by the application. Similarly, it would be clear to a person having
ordinary skill in the art how other processes can be implemented based on the components
depicted in Figures lA-lB.
                            Typing Characters on a Virtual Keyboard
[002501           Many electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces, such as portable
multifunction devices with touch screen displays, have graphical user interfaces with
displayed virtual keyboards for typing characters for output in, for example, e-mail messages,
notepad applications, and search fields. Some methods for entering a character or a sequence
of characters (e.g., entering an input into the device that corresponds to a request to output a
character or multiple characters) require separate contacts on a touch-sensitive surface for
                                                    78

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
each character entered. However, entering characters with a separate contact for each
character entered can be inefficient and time consuming for a user.
[002511          In the embodiments described below, a faster and more efficient method for
accurately typing characters on a virtual keyboard is provided where a sequence of characters
can be selected with a continuous contact in response to detecting an increase in intensity of
the contact while the contact is over keys corresponding to the characters . In some
embodiments, detecting a press input that includes a contact with a respective intensity above
a respective threshold (e.g., on a device with a touch-sensitive surface configured to detect
intensity of contacts) while a contact is over a respective character causes the device to output
the respective character. In contrast, detecting a press input with a maximum intensity below
the respective threshold causes the device to forgo outputting the respective character. This
method streamlines the character typing process by allowing a user to type characters quickly
and accurately using a single continuous movement of a contact.
[00252]          Figures 11 A-1 IT illustrate exemplary user interfaces for typing characters on
a virtual keyboard in accordance with some embodiments. The user interfaces in these figures
are used to illustrate the processes described below, including the processes in Figures 12A
 12D. Figures 11B-1i T include intensity diagrams that show the current intensity of the
contact on the touch-sensitive surface relative to a plurality of intensity thresholds including a
first intensity threshold (e.g., "ITL"), a deep press intensity threshold (e.g., "ITD") and a
character output intensity threshold (e.g., "ITc").
[00253]          Figure 11 A illustrates an exemplary user interface displayed on device 300
with touch screen 112 for typing characters on a virtual keyboard 17704 in accordance with
some embodiments. As an example, the device displays a notepad application (app) 17702.
Letters and/or other characters produced using inputs (gestures, contacts, etc.) are outputted
(e.g., displayed) in the notepad within notepad app 17702.
[00254]          Figure 11 B illustrates detection of a contact 17706 on touch screen 112.
Contact 17706 is detected by virtue of an intensity of contact above a minimum contact
intensity threshold ITO. However, in Figure 1 IB, contact 17706 has an intensity below the
light press intensity threshold ITL, and therefore no characters are outputted in notepad app
 17702 (as described with reference to method 17800, Figures 12A-12D). Figure 11 B also
illustrates movement of contact 17706 from the location shown in the figure to a location
over the key corresponding to character "G."
                                                   79

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
[002551          Figure 11 C illustrates an intensity of contact 17706 below ITL while contact
 17706 is over the key corresponding to character "G." Optionally, the device displays a pop
up tab 17708 displaying a character that corresponds to the location of contact 17706. For
example, because contact 17706 is currently over a hit-region that corresponds to the
character "G", the character "G" is displayed in the pop-up tab. The pop-up tab therefore
allows a user to see a character to which a contact corresponds despite that character being
covered by the user's finger. In this example, pop-up tab 17708 is displayed regardless of the
intensity (e.g., without necessarily outputting the character "G," as explained below).
[00256]          Figure 1 ID illustrates an intensity of contact 17706 above ITL while contact
 17706 is over the key corresponding to character "G" (e.g., a light press input is detected over
the key corresponding to character "G"). Because character-output criteria are met, character
"G" is outputted in notepad app 17702 (as described with reference to method 17800, Figures
 12A-12D). In some embodiments, character "G" is outputted when an increase in intensity of
contact 17706 is detected above ITL (e.g., on the rising edge of intensity, or "down-stroke" of
a contact, that subsequently has an intensity above ITL). For example, in Figure 1 ID,
character "G" is output when an intensity of contact 17706 is above ITL while contact 17706
is over the key corresponding to character "G" on the virtual keyboard.
[002571          In some embodiments, character "G" is outputted when a decrease in intensity
of contact 17706 is detected from above ITL to below ITL (e.g., on the falling edge, or "up
stroke" of a contact that previously had an intensity above ITL). In some embodiments, the
character-output criteria include detection of both an intensity of contact 17706 above ITL,
and a subsequent decrease in intensity from above to below a different character-output
intensity threshold (e.g., ITc), while contact 17706 is continuously detected over the key
corresponding to character "G" on the virtual keyboard. In such embodiments, there are
different thresholds to activate potential output of a character (e.g., ITL) and to actually
trigger output of the character (e.g., ITc), thereby providing hysteresis and prevented
repeated, accidental outputs of the same character. Alternatively, in some embodiments, ITL
and ITc are equal. For ease of explanation, output of a respective character is shown
contemporaneously with a corresponding input above ITL, unless otherwise noted (e.g.,
output is triggered on the down-stroke).
[00258]          In some embodiments, after output of a capitalized character (e.g., character
"G") virtual keyboard 17704 automatically transitions to displaying lower-case characters. In
some embodiments, subsequent fulfillment of character-output criteria while a contact is over
                                                    80

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
a lower-case character (e.g., "g") results in output of the lower-case character. For
convenience of explanation, embodiments are described with reference to capitalized (i.e.,
upper-case) characters.
[002591          Figure 1 ID also illustrates subsequent movement of contact 17706 to a
location over the key corresponding to character "F."
[00260]         Figure 11E illustrates a maximum intensity of contact 17706 below ITL while
contact 17706 is over the key corresponding to character "F." In this example, intensity of
contact 17706 remains below ITL during the period of time in which contact 17706 is over the
key corresponding to character "F." As a result, the device forgoes outputting character "F"
in notepad app 17702 (as described with reference to method 17800, Figures 12A-12D).
Figure 11E also illustrates subsequent movement of contact 17706 to a location over the key
corresponding to character "E."
[00261]         Figure 1 IF illustrate an intensity of contact 17706 below ITL while contact
 17706 is over the key corresponding to character "E."
[00262]         Figure 11 G illustrates an increase in intensity of contact 17706 from below
ITL to above ITL and the resulting output of a character "E."
[00263]         Figure 1 1H illustrates subsequent movement of contact 17706 to a location
over the key corresponding to character "R." The device forgoes output of the character "R",
as shown in Figure 11I, because the intensity of contact 17706 remains below ITL while
contact 17706 is over the key corresponding to character "R."
[00264]         Figures 1 1J-1IM illustrate exemplary user interfaces for sequentially
outputting more than one instance of the same character. Figure 11 J illustrates contact 17706
at a location over the key corresponding to character "T." Figure 1 1K illustrates the intensity
of contact 17706 above ITL and the resulting output of the character "T" as described above.
Figure I1L shows a decrease in intensity below I T c. Figure 1 IM illustrates a subsequent
intensity of contact 17706 above ITL (e.g., contact 17706 has an intensity above ITL for a
second time with an intermediate detection of contact 17706 with an intensity below ITC). As
a result, a second instance of the character "T" is outputted in notepad app 17702.
[002651         Figure 1 IM also illustrates display of an autocorrect and/or auto-complete
interface displaying a suggested correction and/or completion to a user outputted string of
characters (e.g., "GETT" in the instant example). In this example, the device suggests the
correction and completion "JETTY" to replace the outputted "GETT." Figure 1 IM also
                                                   81

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
illustrates subsequent movement of contact 17706 to a location over a space-bar (it is not
necessarily required that the intensity of contact 17706 is above any particular threshold
during movement of contact 17706). In this example, the space-bar is a predefined affordance
for accepting or declining the autocorrect/auto-complete suggestion. In some embodiments,
detection of a light press input (e.g., an increase in intensity of contact 17706 from an
intensity below ITL to an intensity above ITL, optionally followed by a decrease in intensity
of contact 17706 below ITL) while contact 17706 is over the predefined affordance (e.g., the
space-bar) results in acceptance (and output) of the suggestion (shown in Figures 110-11 P).
In some embodiments, detection of a deep press input (e.g., an increase in intensity of contact
 17706 from an intensity below ITD to an intensity above ITD, optionally followed by a
decrease in intensity of contact 17706 below ITD) while contact 17706 is over the predefined
affordance preempts (declines) the suggestion and results in continued display of the user
outputted string of characters (shown in Figures 11Q-1 1R). Alternatively, in some
embodiments, a deep press results in acceptance of the suggestion and a light press results in
preemption (e.g., rejection) of the suggestion (e.g., the functionality is reversed compared
with the embodiments described with reference to Figures 11M-1 IS).
[00266]         Figure 11T illustrates an intensity of a contact 17710 above the deep press
intensity threshold ITD. In some embodiments, detection of an intensity of contact 17710
above ITD results in display of a special character interface displaying special characters (e.g.,
an "e" character with: grave accent, acute accent, dot above, ogonek, and diaeresis). In some
embodiments, selection of a particular displayed special character results in the output of the
particular displayed special character in notepad 17702 (e.g., in lieu of outputting the
character "E").
[002671         Figures 12A-12D are flow diagrams illustrating a method 17800 of typing
characters on a virtual keyboard in accordance with some embodiments. The method 17800 is
performed at an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device
 100, Figure 1A) with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the
display is a touch screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on the display. In some
embodiments, the display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. Some operations in
method 17800 are, optionally, combined and/or the order of some operations is, optionally,
changed.
[00268]         As described below, the method 17800 provides an intuitive way to typing
characters on a virtual keyboard. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when
                                                   82

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
typing characters on a virtual keyboard, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine
interface. For battery-operated electronic devices, enabling a user to type characters on a
virtual keyboard faster and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time between
battery charges.
[002691         The device displays (17802) a virtual keyboard on the display (e.g., an
alphanumeric keyboard for entering text on the device shown in Figure 11 A). The device
detects (17804) a contact on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., contact 17706, Figure 1 IB).
While continuously detecting (17806) the contact on the touch-sensitive surface, the device
detects (17808) one or more movements of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface that
correspond to movement of a focus selector over the virtual keyboard (e.g., a single
continuous movement over multiple keys of the virtual keyboard such as contact 17706 in
Figure 11 B, and/or a plurality of discrete movements from one key to another such as contact
 17706 in Figure 11 E). For each respective key of a plurality of keys of the virtual keyboard,
while detecting the focus selector over a respective key of the plurality of keys, in accordance
with a determination that character-output criteria for outputting a character that corresponds
to the respective key have been met, where the character-output criteria include that a
respective intensity of the contact is above a first intensity threshold, while detecting the
focus selector over the respective key, the device outputs (17810) the character, and in
accordance with a determination that the character-output criteria have not been met, the
device forgoes outputting the character that corresponds to the respective key. In some
embodiments, the first intensity threshold is an intensity threshold that is higher than an
input-detection intensity threshold at which the contact is initially detected. In some
embodiments, the character is output in response to detecting an increase in intensity of the
contact from an intensity below the first intensity threshold to an intensity above the first
intensity threshold.
[002701         In some embodiments, the character-output criteria for outputting the character
that corresponds to the respective key include (17811) that, while the focus selector is over
the respective key, the contact corresponding to the focus selector increases from an intensity
below the first intensity threshold (e.g., the character is output in response to detecting an
increase in intensity of the contact from an intensity below the first intensity threshold to an
intensity above the first intensity threshold).
[002711         In some embodiments, the character-output criteria for outputting the character
that corresponds to the respective key include (17812) that, while the focus selector is over
                                                   83

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
the respective key, the contact corresponding to the focus selector decreases from an intensity
above the first intensity threshold to an intensity below a character-output intensity threshold.
In some embodiments, the character-output intensity threshold is the same as the first
intensity threshold. In some embodiments, the character-output intensity threshold is below
the first intensity threshold.
[00272]          In some embodiments, the character-output criteria for outputting the character
that corresponds to the respective key include (17813) that, while the focus selector is
continuously detected over the respective key, the contact corresponding to the focus selector
increases from an intensity below the first intensity and subsequently decreases from an
intensity above the first intensity threshold to an intensity below a character-output intensity
threshold (e.g., the character-output criteria include detection of a down-stroke and an up
stroke while the contact is continuously over a respective key).
[002731          In some embodiments, while continuously detecting the contact on the touch
sensitive surface, the device detects (17814) a first press input that includes detecting an
increase in intensity of the contact above the first intensity threshold while the focus selector
is over a first key. In response to detecting the first press input, the device outputs (17815) a
character that corresponds to the first key. In some embodiments, the device outputs the
character in response to detecting the increase in intensity of the contact above the first
intensity threshold (e.g., the "down-stroke" of the press input). In some embodiments, the
device outputs the character in response to detecting the decrease in intensity of the contact
below the character-output intensity threshold (e.g., the "up-stroke" of the press input).
[00274]          In some embodiments, while continuously detecting the contact on the touch
sensitive surface, the device detects a decrease in intensity of the contact below the first
intensity threshold. After detecting the decrease in intensity of the contact below the first
intensity threshold, the device detects (17816) a decrease in intensity of the contact below the
first intensity threshold (or, optionally, the character-output intensity threshold). After
detecting the decrease in intensity of the contact below the first intensity threshold, the device
detects (17818) a second press input (or, in some circumstances a third, fourth, etc.) that
includes detecting an increase in intensity of the contact above the first intensity threshold
while the focus selector is over the first key. In response to detecting the second press input,
the device outputs (17820) a character that corresponds to the first key again as an additional
output (e.g., output of a second character "T," Figures 1 1J-1IM). Thus, in some
embodiments, the first key can be selected twice as an output for the keyboard without
                                                   84

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
detecting liftoff of the contact. For example, a user can keep a contact over the "A" key and
perform an increase pressure, decrease pressure, increase pressure sequence to select the key
twice (e.g., to type "AA"). Similarly, the user can use a single continuous contact with
multiple increase pressure, decrease pressure cycles while the focus selector is over multiple
keys (e.g., the "A" key and the "B" key) to type sequences of characters (e.g., "ABAB"). In
some embodiments, the device outputs the character in response to detecting the increase in
intensity of the contact above the first intensity threshold (e.g., the "down-stroke" of the press
input). In some embodiments, the device outputs the character in response to detecting the
decrease in intensity of the contact below the character-output intensity threshold (e.g., the
"up-stroke" of the press input).
[00275]          In some embodiments, while continuously detecting the contact on the touch
sensitive surface, the device detects (17822) a second press input that includes detecting an
increase in intensity of the contact above the first intensity threshold while the focus selector
is over a second key. In response to detecting the second press input (17824) a character that
corresponds to the second key (e.g., as the user moves the focus selector around the
keyboard, multiple different keys can be selected by increasing the intensity of the contact
while the focus selector is over different keys in the keyboard). In some embodiments, the
device outputs the character in response to detecting the increase in intensity of the contact
above the first intensity threshold (e.g., the "down-stroke" of the press input). In some
embodiments, the device outputs the character in response to detecting the decrease in
intensity of the contact below the character-output intensity threshold (e.g., the "up-stroke" of
the press input).
[002761          In some embodiments, while continuously detecting the contact on the touch
sensitive surface, the device detects (17826) movement of the contact that corresponds to
movement of the focus selector over a second key, and a maximum intensity of the contact is
below the first intensity threshold while the focus selector is over the second key. In response
to detecting movement of the contact that corresponds to movement of the focus selector over
the second key, wherein the maximum intensity of the contact is below the first intensity
threshold while the focus selector is over the second key, the device forgoes (17828)
outputting a character that corresponds to the second key.
[00277]          In some embodiments, while continuously detecting the contact on the touch
sensitive surface, the device detects (17830) a plurality of inputs that correspond to entering a
sequence of characters (e.g., sequence of characters "GETT," Figure 1 IM). In response to
                                                   85

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
detecting the plurality of inputs, the device displays (17832) an autocorrect user interface for
changing the sequence of characters to a modified sequence of characters (e.g., display an
autocorrected sequence of characters such as autocorrected sequence "JETTY," Figure 1 IM,
with a cancellation affordance or display one or more autocorrect options for replacing the
sequence of characters). While displaying the autocorrect user interface, the device detects
(17834) an autocorrect input that includes an increase in intensity of the contact above the
first intensity threshold while the focus selector is over a respective affordance (e.g., a space
bar or a delete key) in the user interface. In response to detecting the autocorrect input, in
accordance with a determination that the contact included in the autocorrect input has an
intensity above a second intensity threshold that is higher than the first intensity threshold,
the device performs (17836) a first operation associated with the sequence of characters.
[002781          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the autocorrect input, in
accordance with a determination that the contact included in the autocorrect input has an
intensity between the first intensity threshold and the second intensity threshold, the device
performs (17838) a second operation associated with the sequence of characters, the second
operation being different from the first operation.
[002791          In some embodiments, the first operation includes (17840) rejecting the
modified sequence of characters (e.g., rejecting the suggested auto-correction, Figures 11Q
 11 S), and the second operation includes replacing the sequence of characters with the
modified sequence of characters (e.g., accepting the suggested auto-correction, Figures 110
 1IP).
[002801          Alternatively, in some embodiments, the first operation includes (17842)
replacing the sequences of characters with the modified sequence of characters, and the
second operation includes rejecting the modified sequence of characters.
[002811          It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 12A-12D have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate
that the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., those listed in paragraph [0043]) are also
applicable in an analogous manner to method 17800 described above with respect to Figures
 12A-12D. For example, the contacts, gestures, characters, intensity thresholds, and focus
                                                   86

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
selectors described above with reference to method 17800 optionally have one or more of the
characteristics of the contacts, gestures, characters, intensity thresholds, and focus selectors
described herein with reference to other methods described herein (e.g., those listed in
paragraph [0043]). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00282]          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 13 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 17900 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 13 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments.
Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation
or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[002831          As shown in Figure 13, an electronic device 17900 includes a display unit
 17902 configured to display a virtual keyboard, a touch-sensitive surface unit 17904
configured to receive contacts, one or more sensor units 17906 configured to detect intensity
of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit 17904; and a processing unit 17908 coupled
to the display unit 17902, the touch-sensitive surface unit 17904 and the one or more sensor
units 17906. In some embodiments, the processing unit 17908 includes a detecting unit
 17910, an outputting unit 17912, an autocorrect replacing unit 17914, and an autocorrect
rejecting unit 17916.
[00284]          The processing unit 17908 is configured to: while continuously detecting a
contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 17904: detect one or more movements of the
contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 17904 that correspond to movement of a focus
selector over the virtual keyboard; and for each respective key of a plurality of keys of the
virtual keyboard, while detecting the focus selector over a respective key of the plurality of
keys (e.g., with detecting unit 17910): in accordance with a determination that character
output criteria for outputting a character that corresponds to the respective key have been
met, wherein the character-output criteria include that a respective intensity of the contact is
above a first intensity threshold while detecting the focus selector over the respective key,
output the character; and (e.g., with outputting unit 17912); and in accordance with a
determination that the character-output criteria have not been met, forgo outputting the
character that corresponds to the respective key.
                                                  87

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
[002851          In some embodiments, the character-output criteria for outputting the character
that corresponds to the respective key include that, while the focus selector is over the
respective key: the contact corresponding to the focus selector increases from an intensity
below the first intensity threshold.
[002861          In some embodiments, the character-output criteria for outputting the character
that corresponds to the respective key include that, while the focus selector is over the
respective key: the contact corresponding to the focus selector decreases from an intensity
above the first intensity threshold to an intensity below a character-output intensity threshold.
[002871          In some embodiments, the character-output criteria for outputting the character
that corresponds to the respective key include that, while the focus selector is continuously
detected over the respective key: the contact corresponding to the focus selector increases
from an intensity below the first intensity and subsequently decreases from an intensity above
the first intensity threshold to an intensity below a character-output intensity threshold.
[002881          In some embodiments, the processing unit 17908 is further configured to,
while continuously detecting the contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 17904: detect an
increase in intensity of the contact above the first intensity threshold while the focus selector
is over a first key; and in response to detecting the increase in intensity of the contact, output
a character that corresponds to the first key.
[002891          In some embodiments, the processing unit 17908 is further configured to,
while continuously detecting the contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 17904: detect
movement of the contact that corresponds to movement of the focus selector over a second
key, wherein a maximum intensity of the contact is below the first intensity threshold while
the focus selector is over the second key; and in response to detecting movement of the
contact that corresponds to movement of the focus selector over the second key, wherein the
maximum intensity of the contact is below the first intensity threshold while the focus
selector is over the second key, forgo outputting a character that corresponds to the second
key.
[00290]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 17908 is further configured to while
continuously detecting the contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 17904 and after
outputting a character that corresponds to the first key: detect a second press input that
includes detecting an increase in intensity of the contact above the first intensity threshold
                                                   88

  WO 2013/169877                                                            PCT/US2013/040101
while the focus selector is over a second key; and in response to detecting the second press
input, output a character that corresponds to the second key.
[00291]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 17908 is further configured to,
while continuously detecting the contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 17904 and after
outputting a character that corresponds to the first key: detect a decrease in intensity of the
contact below the first intensity threshold; after detecting the decrease in intensity of the
contact below the first intensity threshold, detect a second press input that includes detecting
an increase in intensity of the contact above the first intensity threshold while the focus
selector is over the first key; and in response to detecting the second press input, output a
character that corresponds to the first key again as an additional output.
[00292]          In some embodiments, the processing unit further 17908 is further configured
to, while continuously detecting the contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 17904: detect
a plurality of inputs that correspond to entering a sequence of characters; in response to
detecting the plurality of inputs, display an autocorrect user interface for changing the
sequence of characters to a modified sequence of characters; while displaying the autocorrect
user interface, detect an autocorrect input that includes an increase in intensity of the contact
above the first intensity threshold while the focus selector is over a respective affordance in
the user interface; and in response to detecting the autocorrect input, in accordance with a
determination that the contact included in the autocorrect input has an intensity above a
second intensity threshold that is higher than the first intensity threshold, perform a first
operation associated with the sequence of characters.
[002931          In some embodiments, the processing unit 17908 is further configured to, in
response to detecting the autocorrect input, in accordance with a determination that the
contact included in the autocorrect input has an intensity between the first intensity threshold
and the second intensity threshold, perform a second operation associated with the sequence
of characters, wherein the second operation is different from the first operation.
[00294]          In some embodiments, the first operation includes rejecting the modified
sequence of characters (e.g., rejecting an autocorrect suggestion with the autocorrect reject
unit 17916); and the second operation includes replacing the sequences of characters with the
modified sequence of characters (e.g., accepting the autocorrect suggestion with the
autocorrect replacing unit 17914).
                                                   89

  WO 2013/169877                                                             PCT/US2013/040101
[002951         Alternatively, in some embodiments, the first operation includes replacing the
sequences of characters with the modified sequence of characters; and the second operation
includes rejecting the modified sequence of characters.
[00296]         The operations in the information processing methods described above are,
optionally implemented by running one or more functional modules in information
processing apparatus such as general purpose processors (e.g., as described above with
respect to Figures 1A and 3) or application specific chips.
[002971         The operations described above with reference to Figures 12A-12D are,
optionally, implemented by components depicted in Figures lA-lB or Figure 13. For
example, detection operation 17804, output operation 17810, and autocorrect operation
 17836 are, optionally, implemented by event sorter 170, event recognizer 180, and event
handler 190. Event monitor 171 in event sorter 170 detects a contact on touch-sensitive
display 112, and event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to application
 136-1. A respective event recognizer 180 of application 136-1 compares the event
information to respective event definitions 186, and determines whether a first contact at a
first location on the touch-sensitive surface corresponds to a predefined event or sub-event,
such as selection of an object on a user interface. When a respective predefined event or sub
event is detected, event recognizer 180 activates an event handler 190 associated with the
detection of the event or sub-event. Event handler 190 optionally utilizes or calls data updater
 176 or object updater 177 to update the application internal state 192. In some embodiments,
event handler 190 accesses a respective GUI updater 178 to update what is displayed by the
application. Similarly, it would be clear to a person having ordinary skill in the art how other
processes can be implemented based on the components depicted in Figures lA-lB.
[00298]         It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations have
been described above is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate that the described
order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of ordinary skill in
the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described herein. Additionally,
it should be noted that the various processes separately described herein (e.g., those listed in
paragraph [0043]) can be combined with each other in different arrangements. For example,
the contacts, user interface objects, tactile sensations, intensity thresholds, and/or focus
selectors described above with reference to any one of the various processes separately
described herein (e.g., those listed in paragraph [0043]) optionally have one or more of the
characteristics of the contacts, gestures, user interface objects, tactile sensations, intensity
                                                   90

  WO 2013/169877                                                         PCT/US2013/040101
thresholds, and focus selectors described herein with reference to one or more of the other
methods described herein (e.g., those listed in paragraph [0043]). For brevity, all of the
various possible combinations are not specifically enumerated here, but it should be
understood that the claims described above may be combined in any way that is not
precluded by mutually exclusive claim features.
[00299]         The foregoing description, for purpose of explanation, has been described with
reference to specific embodiments. However, the illustrative discussions above are not
intended to be exhaustive or to limit the various described embodiments to the precise forms
disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings.
The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the
various described embodiments and their practical applications, to thereby enable others
skilled in the art to best utilize the various described embodiments with various modifications
as are suited to the particular use contemplated.
                                                    91

1002205807
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.       A method, comprising:
at an electronic device with a touch-sensitive surface and a display, wherein the device
includes one or more sensors to detect intensities of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface:
         displaying, on the display, a plurality of user interface objects, including a first user
interface object and a second user interface object;
         detecting a first press input that corresponds to an increase in intensity of a contact
above a first intensity threshold on the touch-sensitive surface while a focus selector is over
the first user interface object;
         in response to detecting the first press input, selecting the first user interface object;
and
         after selecting the first user interface object:
                  detecting a second press input that corresponds to an increase in intensity of a
contact above a second intensity threshold on the touch-sensitive surface while the focus
selector is over the second user interface object; and
                  in response to detecting the second press input, selecting the second user
interface object and maintaining selection of the first user interface object.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein:
         the first press input corresponds to a first contact on the touch-sensitive surface; and
         the second press input corresponds to a second contact on the touch-sensitive surface
different from the first contact.
3.       The method of claim 2, further including, after selecting the first user interface object
and the second user interface object:
         detecting liftoff of the second contact;
         after detecting liftoff of the second contact, detecting a third press input
corresponding to a third contact; and
         in response to detecting the third press input, deselecting the first user interface object
and the second user interface object.
                                                   92

1002205807
4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the first press input and the second press input are
portions of a single gesture that includes a continuously detected contact on the touch
sensitive surface.
5.       The method of claim 4, further including, after selecting the first user interface object
and the second user interface object:
         detecting liftoff of the continuously detected contact; and
         in response to detecting liftoff of the continuously detected contact, deselecting the
first user interface object and the second user interface object.
6.       The method of claim 4, wherein:
         the gesture includes an intermediate portion between the first press input and the
second press input that includes movement of the continuously detected contact
corresponding to movement of the focus selector from the first user interface object to the
second user interface object.
7.       The method of any of claims 1-6, wherein the device is configured to detect a range of
contact intensity values and compare the detected intensity values against a plurality of
different intensity thresholds including:
         an alternative-mode intensity threshold that is used by the device to transition from a
first selection mode to a second selection mode; and
         a selection intensity threshold that is used by the device to differentiate between
inputs that correspond to movement of the focus selector on the display and inputs that
correspond to selection of a user interface object at a location on the display at or near a
location of the focus selector, wherein the selection intensity threshold is different from the
alternative-mode intensity threshold.
8.       The method of claim 7, further including, after selecting the first user interface object
and the second user interface object:
         detecting a third press input that includes an increase in intensity of a contact above
the alternative-mode intensity threshold; and
         in response to detecting the third press input, deselecting the first user interface object
and the second user interface object.
                                                  93

1002205807
9.       The method of any of claims 7-8, wherein:
         the first intensity threshold is the alternative-mode intensity threshold; and
         the second intensity threshold is the alternative-mode intensity threshold.
10.      The method of any of claims 7-8, wherein:
         the first intensity threshold is the altemative-mode intensity threshold; and
         the second intensity threshold is the selection intensity threshold.
11.      The method of claim 10, wherein:
         the plurality of user interface objects includes a third user interface object that is
representative of a collection of user interface objects; and
         the method includes, after selecting the first user interface object and the second user
interface object:
                  detecting a third press input that corresponds to an increase in intensity of a
contact on the touch-sensitive surface while a focus selector is over the third user interface
object; and
                  in response to detecting the third press input:
                          in accordance with a determination that the third press input includes
an increase in intensity above the first intensity threshold, displaying a user interface with a
region for adding the first user interface object and second user interface object to the
collection of user interface objects represented by the third user interface object; and
                          in accordance with a determination that the third press input includes
an increase in intensity to a maximum intensity that is above the second intensity threshold
and below the first intensity threshold, selecting the third user interface object in addition to
the first user interface object and the second user interface object.
12.      The method of any of claims 1-11, further including:
         after selecting the first user interface object, displaying a first residual image at the
original location of the first user interface object; and
         after selecting the second user interface object, displaying a second residual image at
the original location of the second user interface object.
13.      The method of claim 12, further including, after displaying the first residual image
and the second residual image:
                                                   94

1002205807
         detecting an end of selection of the first user interface object and the second user
interface object; and
         in response to detecting the end of selection of the first user interface object and the
second user interface object, displaying an animation of a representation of the first user
interface object moving back to the first residual image and displaying an animation of a
representation of the second user interface object moving back to the second residual image.
14.      The method of any of claims 12-13, further including, after displaying the first
residual image and the second residual image:
         detecting a press input on a respective residual image; and
         in response to detecting the press input on the respective residual image, deselecting a
user interface object corresponding to the respective residual image.
15.      The method of any of claims 1-14, further including:
         after selecting the first user interface object, displaying a representation of the first
user interface object proximate to the focus selector; and
         after selecting the second user interface object, displaying a representation of the
second user interface object proximate to the focus selector.
16.      The method of any of claims 1-15, further including:
         after selecting the first user interface object, changing display of the first user
interface object to provide a visual indication that the first user interface object has been
selected; and
         after selecting the second user interface object, changing display of the second user
interface object to provide a visual indication that the second user interface object has been
selected.
17.      An electronic device, comprising:
a display;
a touch-sensitive surface;
one or more sensors to detect intensities of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface;
one or more processors;
memory; and
                                                   95

1002205807
one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and
configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including
instructions for performing any of the methods of claims 1-16
18.      A computer program comprising instructions which, when executed by an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface and one or more sensors to detect intensities
of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface, cause the electronic device to perform any of the
methods of claims 1-16.
                                               96

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
