   1001993552
                                        ABSTRACT
            An illustrative example elevator system includes a first vertical pathway, a
   second vertical pathway, and a transfer space situated to allow movement between
 5 the vertical pathways. An elevator car is selectively moveable along the respective
   vertical pathways and through the transfer space. At least one blocker has a passage
   condition and a blocking condition. The passage condition allows the elevator car to
   move from one of the vertical pathways into the transfer space when the transfer
   space is configured to receive the elevator car from the one of the vertical pathways.
10 The blocking condition prevents the elevator car from moving from the one of the
   vertical pathways into the transfer space when the transfer space is not configured to
   receive the elevator car from the one of the vertical pathways.

                          1/3
                   22           4 24               26
                 FIRST       SECOND        THIRD
               VERTICAL     VERTICAL      VERTICAL
20             PATHWAY      PATHWAY       PATHWAY
                   48
                2                                           2
               ELEVATOR
      42          CAR
                           34       36                   40   60
   30---P
        505                  DE           ELEVATOR
                                       62 "            -- 56
                           LRNSFER SPACE ,% I
                        46                     "-28
           46           4
                            FIG. 1
                          32/ 44                54
   30-,                      34 361                 '--,56
   48                         50~~K
        22    42 46 24                   38        26
                            FIG. 2

   1001993552
          DEVICE AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING ELEVATOR CAR
           MOVEMENT INTO A TRANSFER SPACE ASSOCIATED WITH
                           MULTIPLE VERTICAL PATHWAYS
 5
                                       BACKGROUND
            There are a variety of elevator system configurations. Many elevator systems
   include a single car that is situated for movement within a single hoistway. Traction
10 based and hydraulic machines typically cause movement of the car between landings
   to provide elevator service based on passenger requests. Such systems are useful for
   many situations but there are different building and tenant considerations that have
   prompted elevator system designers to develop other types of systems.
            One proposed elevator system configuration includes multiple hoistways or
15 vertical pathways and a transfer floor or transfer space that allows an elevator car to
   transition from one of the pathways to another. When multiple cars and multiple
   vertical pathways are used, a variety of scheduling strategies become possible to
   provide various types of elevator service to address differing needs under different
   circumstances.
20          One of the challenges associated with such elevator systems is that they
   introduce new challenges requiring control over movement of the elevator cars
   within the various portions of the elevator system.
                                          SUMMARY
25          An illustrative example elevator system includes a first vertical pathway, a
   second vertical pathway, and a transfer space situated to allow movement between
   the respective vertical pathways. An elevator car is selectively moveable along the
   respective vertical pathways and through the transfer space. At least one blocker has
   a passage condition and a blocking condition. The passage condition allows the
30 elevator car to move from one of the vertical pathways into the transfer space when
   the transfer space is configured to receive the elevator car from the one of the vertical
   pathways. The blocking condition prevents the elevator car from moving from the
   one of the vertical pathways into the transfer space when the transfer space is not
   configured to receive the elevator car from the one of the vertical pathways.
                                                1

   1001993552
            In an example embodiment having one or more features of the elevator
   system of the previous paragraph, the at least one blocker comprises at least one first
   blocker at least partially in the first vertical pathway near the transfer space and at
   least one second blocker at least partially in the second vertical pathway near the
 5 transfer space.
            In an example embodiment having one or more features of the elevator
   system of either of the previous paragraphs, the at least one first blocker is situated
   above the transfer space to selectively prevent the elevator car from descending from
   the first vertical pathway into the transfer space and the at least one second blocker is
10 situated above the transfer space to selectively prevent the elevator car from
   descending from the second vertical pathway into the transfer space.
            In an example embodiment having one or more features of the elevator
   system of any of the previous paragraphs, the at least one blocker is situated in the
   transfer space.
15          In an example embodiment having one or more features of the elevator
   system of any of the previous paragraphs, the at least one blocker is situated on the
   elevator car.
            An example embodiment having one or more features of the elevator system
   of any of the previous paragraphs includes a control associated with the at least one
20 blocker, the control being configured to cause the at least one blocker to be in the
   passage condition based on the control determining that the transfer space is
   configured to receive the elevator car from the one of the vertical pathways, the
   control otherwise causing the at least one blocker to be in the blocking condition.
            An example embodiment having one or more features of the elevator system
25 of any of the previous paragraphs includes a carriage in the transfer space, the
   carriage being configured to receive the elevator car and to effect horizontal
   movement of the elevator car within the transfer space. The control determines that
   the transfer space is configured to receive the elevator car from the first vertical
   pathway when the carriage is aligned with the first vertical pathway and the control
30 determines that the transfer space is configured to receive the elevator car from the
   second vertical pathway when the carriage is aligned with the second vertical
   pathway.
            An example embodiment having one or more features of the elevator system
   of any of the previous paragraphs includes at least one detector that provides an
                                                2

   1001993552
   indication of whether the carriage is aligned with one of the vertical pathways. The
   control determines whether the at least one blocker should be in the blocking or
   passage condition based on the indication from the at least one detector.
            In an example embodiment having one or more features of the elevator
 5 system of any of the previous paragraphs, the control is configured to cause the
   carriage to move within the transfer space.
            An example embodiment having one or more features of the elevator system
   of any of the previous paragraphs includes a carriage in the transfer space, the
   carriage being configured to receive the elevator car and to effect horizontal
10 movement of the elevator car within the transfer space. The carriage is horizontally
   moveable in the transfer space between a first position aligned with the first vertical
   pathway and a second position aligned with the second vertical pathway. The transfer
   space is configured to receive the elevator car from the first vertical pathway when
   the carriage is in the first position and the transfer space is configured to receive the
15 elevator car from the second vertical pathway when the carriage is in the second
   position.
            In an example embodiment having one or more features of the elevator
   system of any of the previous paragraphs, the carriage includes guiding surfaces to
   guide movement of the elevator car onto the carriage in the transfer space. Each of
20 the vertical pathways has guiding surfaces to guide movement of the elevator car.
   The carriage is in the first position when the carriage guiding surfaces are aligned
   with the guiding surfaces in the first vertical pathway and the carriage is in the
   second position when the carriage guiding surfaces are aligned with the guiding
   surfaces in the second vertical pathway.
25          In an example embodiment having one or more features of the elevator
   system of any of the previous paragraphs, the carriage interacts with the at least one
   blocker to cause the at least one blocker to move between the blocking and passage
   positions.
            In an example embodiment having one or more features of the elevator
30 system of any of the previous paragraphs, the at least one blocker comprises a
   bumper configured to cushion any impact of the elevator car against the at least one
   blocker.
            An illustrative example method of controlling movement of an elevator car is
   useful in an elevator system that includes a plurality of vertical pathways and a
                                                3

   1001993552
   horizontally oriented transfer space. The method includes moving the elevator car
   within one of the vertical pathways toward the transfer space and controlling at least
   one blocker to be in a passage condition allowing the elevator car to move from the
   one of the vertical pathways into the transfer space when the transfer space is
 5 configured to receive the elevator car from the one of the vertical pathways, or in a
   blocking condition preventing the elevator car from moving from the one of the
   vertical pathways into the transfer space when the transfer space is not configured to
   receive the elevator car from the one of the vertical pathways.
            In an example embodiment having one or more features of the method of the
10 previous paragraph the at least one blocker is at least one of situated in the one of the
   vertical pathways near the transfer space, situated in the transfer space, and situated
   on the elevator car.
            In an example embodiment having one or more features of the method of
   either of the previous paragraphs, the elevator system includes a carriage configured
15 to receive the elevator car and to effect horizontal movement of the elevator car
   within the transfer space. The method comprises selectively moving the carriage
   horizontally in the transfer space between a first position for receiving the elevator
   car from the first one of the vertical pathways and a second position for receiving the
   elevator car from a second one of the vertical pathways.
20          In an example embodiment having one or more features of the method of any
   of the previous paragraphs, the carriage includes guiding surfaces to guide movement
   of the elevator car onto the carriage in the transfer space, each of the vertical
   pathways has guiding surfaces to guide movement of the elevator car, the carriage is
   in the first position when the carriage guiding surfaces are aligned with the guiding
25 surfaces in the first one of the vertical pathways, and the carriage is in the second
   position when the carriage guiding surfaces are aligned with the guiding surfaces in
   the second one of the vertical pathways.
            In an example embodiment having one or more features of the method of any
   of the previous paragraphs, the method includes using the carriage to cause the at
30 least one blocker to move between the blocking and passage positions.
            In an example embodiment having one or more features of the method of any
   of the previous paragraphs, the method includes detecting a position of the carriage
   in the transfer space and controlling the at least one blocker based on the detected
   position of the carriage.
                                               4

   1001993552
            In an example embodiment having one or more features of the method of any
   of the previous paragraphs, the method includes using a control to cause the at least
   one blocker to be in the passage condition with respect to the one of the vertical
   pathways based on the control determining that the transfer space is configured to
 5 receive the elevator car from the one of the vertical pathways, and otherwise using
   the control to cause the at least one blocker to be in the blocking condition with
   respect to the one of the vertical pathways.
            Various features and advantages of at least one disclosed embodiment will
   become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description.
10 The drawings that accompany the detailed description can be briefly described as
   follows.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            Figure 1 schematically illustrates an elevator system designed according to an
15 embodiment of this invention.
            Figure 2 is an elevational view of the embodiment of Figure 1 taken along the
   lines 2-2 in Figure 1.
            Figure 3 schematically       illustrates  another   example  elevator system
   embodiment.
20          Figure 4 schematically       illustrates  another   example  elevator system
   embodiment.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            Embodiments of this invention provide improvements in control over
25 movement of an elevator car from a vertical pathway into a transfer space that allows
   an elevator car to transition between vertical pathways. Embodiments of this
   invention include at least one blocker that selectively prevents movement of an
   elevator car into the transfer space when the transfer space is not configured to
   receive an elevator car from the vertical pathway where the elevator car is currently
30 located.
            Figure 1 schematically illustrates selected portions of an elevator system 20
   that includes a plurality of vertical pathways. In the illustration, a first vertical
   pathway 22, second vertical pathway 24 and third vertical pathway 26 are each
   configured to receive an elevator car such that the elevator car is moveable along the
                                                 5

   1001993552
   pathway for providing elevator service, for example. Three vertical pathways are
   illustrated for discussion purposes. Other numbers of vertical pathways and various
   numbers of elevator cars may be used to meet the needs of a particular installation.
            A transfer space 28 that allows movement between the vertical pathways is
 5 situated below at least a portion of the vertical pathways. Although the illustration of
   Figure 1 shows the transfer space 28 effectively at the bottom of the vertical
   pathways, the transfer space 28 may be located at a variety of vertical locations
   within the elevator system 20. Additionally, only one transfer space 28 is illustrated
   for discussion purposes. Some embodiments will include multiple transfer spaces
10 associated with the plurality of vertical pathways.
            The illustrated transfer space 28 is arranged essentially horizontal but in some
   embodiments the transfer space will have a generally inclined (or declined)
   orientation relative to the vertical pathways. Those skilled in the art who have the
   benefit of this description will be able to configure the transfer space to be
15 compatible with their particular arrangement of vertical pathways.
            At least one blocker is selectively controllable to be in a passage condition or
   a blocking condition. In the example embodiment shown in Figure 1, there are a
   plurality of blockers associated with each of the vertical pathways. First blocker
   members 30 and 32 are situated in the transfer space 28 adjacent the first vertical
20 pathway 22. Second blocker members 34 and 36 are associated with the second
   vertical pathway 24. Third blocker members 38 and 40 are associated with the third
   vertical pathway 26. When the blocker members are in the passage condition, they
   allow an elevator car to move from the corresponding vertical pathway into the
   transfer space. When the blocker members are in the blocking condition, they prevent
25 an elevator car from moving from the corresponding vertical pathway into the
   transfer space.
            The blocker members are structurally capable of supporting the elevator car
   or at least resisting downward movement of the elevator car when the blockers are in
   the blocking condition. Example blocker members comprise metal beams or rods that
30 are moveable between positions corresponding to the blocking and passage
   conditions.
            A carriage 44 is situated within the transfer space 28 to move horizontally to
   receive an elevator car and facilitate horizontal movement of the elevator car within
   the transfer space 28. The configuration of the carriage 44 and the mechanism for
                                                 6

   1001993552
   moving the carriage 44 within the transfer space 28 may vary to meet the particular
   needs of a given installation. Those skilled in the art who have the benefit of this
   description will realize how to select or design a carriage and carriage moving
   mechanism to meet their particular needs.
 5          The scenario schematically shown in Figure 1 includes an elevator car 42 in
   the first vertical pathway 22 descending toward the transfer space 28. The first
   blocker members 30 and 32 are in the blocking position to prevent the elevator car 42
   from entering the transfer space 28 because the transfer space 28 is not currently
   configured to receive the elevator car 42. In the illustrated scenario, the carriage 44
10 within the transfer space 28 is not properly positioned to receive the elevator car 42
   from the first vertical pathway 22.
            In this example, when the carriage 44 is situated relative to a vertical pathway
   so that guiding surfaces 46 on the carriage 44 are aligned with guiding surfaces 48 of
   the vertical pathway, the transfer space 28 is configured to receive an elevator car
15 from the corresponding vertical pathway. In Figure 1, if the carriage 44 were moved
   further to the left (according to the drawing) and aligned with the first vertical
   pathway 22, the elevator car 42 may follow the guiding surfaces 48 onto the guiding
   surfaces 46 of the carriage 44 for controlled transfer of the elevator car 42 from the
   first vertical pathway into the transfer space 28. Depending on the needs of a
20 particular situation, the elevator car 42 may be transferred over for movement along
   the second vertical pathway 24, for example, as the carriage 44 translates or moves
   along the transfer space 28 into alignment with the second vertical pathway 24.
            Although no elevator car is shown in the second vertical pathway in the
   condition illustrated in Figure 1, the second blocker members 34 and 36 are in the
25 blocking condition because the carriage 44, for example, is not aligned with the
   second vertical pathway 24 for receiving an elevator car from that pathway.
            The example of Figure 1 includes a second elevator car 54 supported on a
   carriage 56 that is aligned with the third vertical pathway 26. The third blocker
   members 38 and 40 are in the passage condition to allow transfer of the elevator car
30 54 between the third vertical pathway 26 and the carriage 56. As can be appreciated
   from Figures 1 and 2, the first and second blocker members 30-36 are in the blocking
   condition and extend into the pathway of an elevator car within the first or second
   vertical pathways 22, 24. The third blocker members 38 and 40, on the other hand,
   are situated so that they do not extend into or interfere with the vertical movement of
                                               7

   1001993552
   the elevator car 54 allowing that elevator car to transition between the transfer space
   28 and the third vertical pathway 26.
            The example blocker members include a buffer 50 that is configured to
   cushion or at least partially absorb forces associated with any impact between an
 5 elevator car and the blocker members. In some examples, the buffer 50, which is
   schematically represented in the drawing, includes at least one resilient component
   such as coil springs, gas springs, compressible material, or a combination of these.
   The buffer 50 in some embodiments operates to reduce a speed of movement of the
   elevator car 54. The buffer 50 in some examples resembles a buffer used in other
10 locations in known elevator systems, such as a buffer situated in a pit at the bottom of
   a hoistway. The buffer 50 may be supported on the blocker member or the blocker
   member may be supported on the buffer 50 at least when the blocker member is in
   the blocking position.
            The blocker members 30-40 in some examples are supported in a way that
15 allows transfer of a vertical load on the blocker members to a pit floor beneath the
   vertical pathways and transfer space. For example, a compressive member extends to
   the pit floor to transfer loads directly to the floor in some embodiments.
            In other embodiments the way in which the blocker members are supported
   by the walls of the vertical pathways or by the structure of the transfer space is
20 configured to support the load of a fully loaded car resting on the blocker members.
            The example of Figure 1 includes a control 60 that controls the positions or
   conditions of the blocker members 30-40. The control 60 determines the position of
   the carriages 44 and 56, respectively, to determine which of the blocker members, if
   any, can be in the passage condition. In this example, the control 60 is programmed
25 to keep the blocker members in the blocking condition as a default and only to allow
   a blocking member to move into the passage condition when the transfer space 28 is
   configured to receive an elevator car from a corresponding one of the vertical
   pathways. For example, the control 60 determines whether one of the carriages is in a
   first position properly aligned with the first vertical pathway to allow transfer of an
30 elevator car between that vertical pathway and the transfer space 28. The control 60
   in this example controls the second blocker members 34 and 36 to be in the passage
   condition when one of the carriages 44 or 56 is properly aligned with the second
   vertical pathway 24. The control 60 similarly controls the third blocker members 38
   and 40 when a carriage is properly aligned with the third vertical pathway 26.
                                                 8

   1001993552
            Figure 1 includes a detector 62 associated with the transfer space 28 in a
   manner to provide an indication of a detected position of at least one of the carriages
   44 and 56. The detector 62 in this example provides information to the control 60
   allowing the control 60 to determine the respective locations of the carriages 44 and
 5 56 and to control the respective blocker members based on the indication from the
   detector 62. Given this description, those skilled in the art will realize that a variety
   of detector configurations      and arrangements     would be useful for providing
   information regarding the configuration of the transfer space 28 for purposes of
   appropriately controlling at least one blocker.
10          Other embodiments have blocker members situated for physical interaction
   with at least one of the carriages so that the physical presence of the carriage aligned
   properly with a vertical pathway causes the corresponding blocker members to move
   into the passage condition. Movement of the carriage out of alignment results in the
   blocker members moving into the blocking position. In one embodiment, the blocker
15 members may be activated by a dedicated activation means including, for example,
   hydraulics, pneumatics, magnets, or motors.
            In some embodiments, when a carriage is situated to receive an elevator car
   from a vertical pathway, the corresponding blocker members include a portion that
   maintains the carriage in that position until the elevator car is properly received by
20 the carriage. In other embodiments the blocker members are mechanically linked
   with a structural member that holds the carriage in position to receive the elevator
   car. Once the car is properly received, the carriage is able to move in the transfer
   space and the corresponding blocker members move back into the blocking position.
            Some embodiments include additional speed control over an elevator car
25 moving toward one of the blocker members in a blocking condition. For example, the
   control 60 determines when an elevator car is approaching a blocking member in the
   blocking condition and activates a brake associated with that elevator car to at least
   slow down the elevator car before it reaches the blocking member. In some
   embodiments, the blocking members have associated structure situated to trigger a
30 safety brake on the elevator car as the car approaches the blocking member.
            The control 60 in some embodiments controls elevator car movement based
   on the positions or conditions of the various blocker members. For example, if a
   blocker member in the intended path of an elevator car fails to move into the passage
                                                9

   1001993552
   condition when it otherwise should have, the control 60 prevents further movement
   of the elevator car in that direction until some corrective action is taken.
            Figure 3 schematically illustrates another example embodiment in which the
   blocker members are situated within the vertical pathways instead of being situated
 5 within the transfer space 28 like those in the example of Figure 1. In the example of
   Figure 3, first blocker members 30' and 32' are situated within the first vertical
   pathway 22 at a vertical position above and near the transfer space 28. Second
   blocker members 34' and 36' are situated within the second vertical pathway 24.
   Third blocker members 38' and 40' are situated within the third vertical pathway 26.
10 The manner in which the blocker members 30'-40' of Figure 3 are controlled is the
   same as that described above regarding the embodiment of Figure 1.
            Figure 4 schematically illustrates another example embodiment in which the
   blocker members are supported on the elevator cars. In this example, first blocker
   members 30" and 32", are situated on the elevator car 42. Second blocker members
15 34" and 36" are situated on the elevator car 54. Stoppers 70 are situated and
   configured to allow an elevator car to pass the stoppers 70. The blocker members on
   an elevator car, however, will contact the stoppers 70 when the blocker members are
   in the blocking condition. The blocker members in the example of Figure 4 have a
   default position corresponding to the blocking condition and are controlled to stay in
20 the passage condition when elevator car movement is desired. In another similarly
   constructed embodiment, the default position is the passage condition and control
   over elevator car movement is used to ensure that movement between a vertical
   pathway and the transfer space only occurs under desired conditions.
            In one embodiment, the blocker members may be configured to trigger the
25 safety brakes on the elevator car by, for example, contacting an actuating button or
   lever of the safety brakes. Thus, rather than physically stopping the elevator car,
   themselves, the blocker members permit the safety brakes to do so, potentially
   providing a smoother stop.
            As shown in Figure 4, for example, the second blocker members 34" and 36"
30 on the elevator car 54 are in the blocking condition. The transfer space 28 is not
   illustrated in a condition that is configured to receive the elevator car 54 from the
   second vertical pathway 24 because no carriage is situated beneath that vertical
   pathway. With the blocker members 34" and 36" in the illustrated position, they
                                                10

   1001993552
   would contact the stoppers 70 associated with the second vertical pathway 24 in a
   manner that prevents the elevator car 54 from descending into the transfer space 28.
            The blocker members 30" and 32" on the elevator car 42 are in the passage
   condition where they will not contact or otherwise interact with the stoppers 70 to
 5 allow the elevator car 42 to pass between the first vertical pathway 22 and the
   transfer space 28 because the carriage 44 is properly situated for receiving the
   elevator car 42. In this example, the blocker members 30" and 32" retract toward the
   center of the elevator car to avoid contact or interaction with the stoppers 70 when
   the blocker members are in the passage condition.
10          In some of the example embodiments, the blocker members have a default
   position corresponding to the passage condition while in others the default position is
   the blocking position.
            The various features and operations of the disclosed embodiments are not
   exclusive to the embodiments as discussed. Combinations of those features may be
15 used in other embodiments and one or more features may be eliminated from a
   disclosed example to realize a different embodiment.
            Various configurations of blocker members may be used in an embodiment of
   this invention for selectively controlling whether an elevator car is allowed to move
   between a vertical pathway and a horizontally oriented transfer space. The illustrated
20 example embodiments demonstrate how an embodiment of this invention provides
   control over the position and movement of elevator cars within elevator systems that
   include multiple vertical pathways along which each car can move.
            The preceding description is exemplary rather than limiting in nature.
   Variations and modifications to the disclosed examples may become apparent to
25 those skilled in the art that do not necessarily depart from the essence of this
   invention.    The scope of legal protection given to this invention can only be
   determined by studying the following claims.
                                              11

   1001993552
                                             CLAIMS
   We claim:
   1.       An elevator system, comprising:
 5          a first vertical pathway;
            a second vertical pathway;
            a transfer space situated to allow movement between the respective vertical
   pathways;
            an elevator car that is selectively moveable along the respective vertical
10 pathways, the elevator car being moveable through the transfer space;
            at least one blocker that has a passage condition and a blocking condition, the
   passage condition allowing the elevator car to move from one of the vertical
   pathways into the transfer space when the transfer space is configured to receive the
   elevator car from the one of the vertical pathways, the blocking condition preventing
15 the elevator car from moving from the one of the vertical pathways into the transfer
   space when the transfer space is not configured to receive the elevator car from the
   one of the vertical pathways.
   2.       The elevator system of claim 1, wherein the at least one blocker comprises
20          at least one first blocker at least partially in the first vertical pathway near the
   transfer space;
            at least one second blocker at least partially in the second vertical pathway
   near the transfer space.
25 3.       The elevator system of claim 2, wherein
            the at least one first blocker is situated above the transfer space to selectively
   prevent the elevator car from descending from the first vertical pathway into the
   transfer space; and
            the at least one second blocker is situated above the transfer space to
30 selectively prevent the elevator car from descending from the second vertical
   pathway into the transfer space.
   4.       The elevator system of claim 1, wherein the at least one blocker is situated in
   the transfer space.
                                                  12

   1001993552
   5.       The elevator system of claim 1, wherein the at least one blocker is situated on
   the elevator car.
 5 6.       The elevator system of claim 1, comprising
            a control associated with the at least one blocker,
            the control being configured to cause the at least one blocker to be in the
   passage condition based on the control determining that the transfer space is
   configured to receive the elevator car from the one of the vertical pathways,
10          the control otherwise causing the at least one blocker to be in the blocking
   condition.
   7.       The elevator system of claim 6, comprising a carriage in the transfer space,
   the carriage being configured to receive the elevator car and to effect horizontal
15 movement of the elevator car within the transfer space and wherein
            the control determines that the transfer space is configured to receive the
   elevator car from the first vertical pathway when the carriage is aligned with the first
   vertical pathway; and
            the control determines that the transfer space is configured to receive the
20 elevator car from the second vertical pathway when the carriage is aligned with the
   second vertical pathway.
   8.       The elevator system of claim 7, comprising at least one detector that provides
   an indication of whether the carriage is aligned with one of the vertical pathways, and
25          wherein the control determines whether the at least one blocker should be in
   the blocking or passage condition based on the indication from the at least one
   detector.
   9.       The elevator system of claim 7, wherein the control is configured to cause the
30 carriage to move within the transfer space.
                                                13

   1001993552
   10.      The elevator system of claim 1, comprising
            a carriage in the transfer space, the carriage being configured to receive the
   elevator car and to effect movement of the elevator car within the transfer space; and
 5          wherein
            the carriage is moveable in the transfer space between a first position aligned
   with the first vertical pathway and a second position aligned with the second vertical
   pathway;
            the transfer space is configured to receive the elevator car from the first
10 vertical pathway when the carriage is in the first position; and
            the transfer space is configured to receive the elevator car from the second
   vertical pathway when the carriage is in the second position.
   11.      The elevator system of claim 10, wherein
15          the carriage includes guiding surfaces to guide movement of the elevator car
   onto the carriage in the transfer space;
            each of the vertical pathways has guiding surfaces to guide movement of the
   elevator car;
            the carriage is in the first position when the carriage guiding surfaces are
20 aligned with the guiding surfaces in the first vertical pathway; and
            the carriage is in the second position when the carriage guiding surfaces are
   aligned with the guiding surfaces in the second vertical pathway.
   12.      The elevator system of claim 10, wherein the carriage interacts with the at
25 least one blocker to cause the at least one blocker to move between the blocking and
   passage positions.
   13.      The elevator system of claim 10, wherein the at least one blocker is supported
   on the carriage.
30
   14.      The elevator system of claim 1, wherein the at least one blocker comprises a
   bumper configured to cushion any impact of the elevator car against the at least one
   blocker.
                                                  14

   1001993552
   15.      The elevator system of claim 1, comprising
            a control associated with the at least one blocker,
            the control being configured to cause the at least one blocker to be in the
   blocking condition based on the control determining that the transfer space is not
 5 configured to receive the elevator car from the one of the vertical pathways,
            the control otherwise causing the at least one blocker to be in the passage
   condition.
   16.      The elevator system of claim 1, wherein
10          the at least one blocker is in the passage condition to allow movement of the
   elevator car from the transfer space into the one of the vertical pathways; and
            the at least one blocker is in the blocking condition to prevent the elevator car
   from moving from the transfer space when the transfer space into the one of the
   vertical pathways.
15
   17.      A method of controlling movement of an elevator car in an elevator system
   that includes a plurality of vertical pathways and a transfer space, the method
   comprising:
            moving the elevator car within one of the vertical pathways toward the
20 transfer space; and
            controlling at least one blocker to be
                     in a passage condition allowing the elevator car to move from the one
            of the vertical pathways into the transfer space when the transfer space is
            configured to receive the elevator car from the one of the vertical pathways,
25          or
                     in a blocking condition preventing the elevator car from moving from
            the one of the vertical pathways into the transfer space when the transfer
            space is not configured to receive the elevator car from the one of the vertical
            pathways.
30
                                                 15

   1001993552
   18.      The method of claim 17, wherein
            the elevator system includes a carriage configured to receive the elevator car
   and to effect horizontal movement of the elevator car within the transfer space; and
            the method comprises
 5          selectively moving the carriage horizontally in the transfer space between a
   first position for receiving the elevator car from the first one of the vertical pathways
   and a second position for receiving the elevator car from a second one of the vertical
   pathways.
10 19.      The method of claim 18, wherein
            the carriage includes guiding surfaces to guide movement of the elevator car
   onto the carriage in the transfer space;
            each of the vertical pathways has guiding surfaces to guide movement of the
   elevator car;
15          the carriage is in the first position when the carriage guiding surfaces are
   aligned with the guiding surfaces in the first one of the vertical pathways; and
            the carriage is in the second position when the carriage guiding surfaces are
   aligned with the guiding surfaces in the second one of the vertical pathways.
20 20.      The method of claim 17, comprising
            using a control to cause the at least one blocker to be in the passage condition
   with respect to the one of the vertical pathways based on the control determining that
   the transfer space is configured to receive the elevator car from the one of the vertical
   pathways, and
25          otherwise using the control to cause the at least one blocker to be in the
   blocking condition with respect to the one of the vertical pathways.
                                                  16

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
